Transcribed from the 1895 Chatto & Windus edition by David Price, email
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


BALLADS BY ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON


Contents:
   The Song of Rahero
      Dedication
      The Slaying of Tamatea
      The Venging of Tamatea
      Rahero
      Notes
   The Feast of Famine
      The Priest's Vigil
      The Lovers
      The Feast
      The Raid
      Notes
   Ticonderoga
      The Saying of the Name
      The Seeking of the Name
      The Place of the Name
      Notes
   Heather Ale
      Heather Ale
      Note
   Christmas At Sea


THE SONG OF RAHERO
A LEGEND OF TAHITI


TO ORI A ORI


Ori, my brother in the island mode,
In every tongue and meaning much my friend,
This story of your country and your clan,
In your loved house, your too much honoured guest,
I made in English.  Take it, being done;
And let me sign it with the name you gave.

TERIITERA.


I. THE SLAYING OF TAMATEA


It fell in the days of old, as the men of Taiarapu tell,
A youth went forth to the fishing, and fortune favoured him well.
Tamatea his name:  gullible, simple, and kind,
Comely of countenance, nimble of body, empty of mind,
His mother ruled him and loved him beyond the wont of a wife,
Serving the lad for eyes and living herself in his life.
Alone from the sea and the fishing came Tamatea the fair,
Urging his boat to the beach, and the mother awaited him there,
- "Long may you live!" said she.  "Your fishing has sped to a wish.
And now let us choose for the king the fairest of all your fish.
For fear inhabits the palace and grudging grows in the land,
Marked is the sluggardly foot and marked the niggardly hand,
The hours and the miles are counted, the tributes numbered and weighed,
And woe to him that comes short, and woe to him that delayed!"

So spoke on the beach the mother, and counselled the wiser thing.
For Rahero stirred in the country and secretly mined the king.
Nor were the signals wanting of how the leaven wrought,
In the cords of obedience loosed and the tributes grudgingly brought.
And when last to the temple of Oro the boat with the victim sped,
And the priest uncovered the basket and looked on the face of the dead,
Trembling fell upon all at sight of an ominous thing,
For there was the aito {1a} dead, and he of the house of the king.

So spake on the beach the mother, matter worthy of note,
And wattled a basket well, and chose a fish from the boat;
And Tamatea the pliable shouldered the basket and went,
And travelled, and sang as he travelled, a lad that was well content.
Still the way of his going was round by the roaring coast,
Where the ring of the reef is broke and the trades run riot the most.
On his left, with smoke as of battle, the billows battered the land;
Unscalable, turreted mountains rose on the inner hand.
And cape, and village, and river, and vale, and mountain above,
Each had a name in the land for men to remember and love;
And never the name of a place, but lo! a song in its praise:
Ancient and unforgotten, songs of the earlier days,
That the elders taught to the young, and at night, in the full of the moon,
Garlanded boys and maidens sang together in tune.
Tamatea the placable went with a lingering foot;
He sang as loud as a bird, he whistled hoarse as a flute;
He broiled in the sun, he breathed in the grateful shadow of trees,
In the icy stream of the rivers he waded over the knees;
And still in his empty mind crowded, a thousand-fold,
The deeds of the strong and the songs of the cunning heroes of old.

And now was he come to a place Taiarapu honoured the most,
Where a silent valley of woods debouched on the noisy coast,
Spewing a level river.  There was a haunt of Pai. {1b}
There, in his potent youth, when his parents drove him to die,
Honoura lived like a beast, lacking the lamp and the fire,
Washed by the rains of the trade and clotting his hair in the mire;
And there, so mighty his hands, he bent the tree to his foot -
So keen the spur of his hunger, he plucked it naked of fruit.
There, as she pondered the clouds for the shadow of coming ills,
Ahupu, the woman of song, walked on high on the hills.

Of these was Rahero sprung, a man of a godly race;
And inherited cunning of spirit and beauty of body and face.
Of yore in his youth, as an aito, Rahero wandered the land,
Delighting maids with his tongue, smiting men with his hand.
Famous he was in his youth; but before the midst of his life
Paused, and fashioned a song of farewell to glory and strife.


House of mine (it went), house upon the sea,
Belov'd of all my fathers, more belov'd by me!
Vale of the strong Honoura, deep ravine of Pai,
Again in your woody summits I hear the trade-wind cry.

House of mine, in your walls, strong sounds the sea,
Of all sounds on earth, dearest sound to me.
I have heard the applause of men, I have heard it arise and die:
Sweeter now in my house I hear the trade-wind cry.


These were the words of his singing, other the thought of his heart;
For secret desire of glory vexed him, dwelling apart.
Lazy and crafty he was, and loved to lie in the sun,
And loved the cackle of talk and the true word uttered in fun;
Lazy he was, his roof was ragged, his table was lean,
And the fish swam safe in his sea, and he gathered the near and the green.
He sat in his house and laughed, but he loathed the king of the land,
And he uttered the grudging word under the covering hand.
Treason spread from his door; and he looked for a day to come,
A day of the crowding people, a day of the summoning drum,
When the vote should be taken, the king be driven forth in disgrace,
And Rahero, the laughing and lazy, sit and rule in his place,
Here Tamatea came, and beheld the house on the brook;
And Rahero was there by the way and covered an oven to cook. {1c}
Naked he was to the loins, but the tattoo covered the lack,
And the sun and the shadow of palms dappled his muscular back.
Swiftly he lifted his head at the fall of the coming feet,
And the water sprang in his mouth with a sudden desire of meat;
For he marked the basket carried, covered from flies and the sun; {1d}
And Rahero buried his fire, but the meat in his house was done.

Forth he stepped; and took, and delayed the boy, by the hand;
And vaunted the joys of meat and the ancient ways of the land:
- "Our sires of old in Taiarapu, they that created the race,
Ate ever with eager hand, nor regarded season or place,
Ate in the boat at the oar, on the way afoot; and at night
Arose in the midst of dreams to rummage the house for a bite.
It is good for the youth in his turn to follow the way of the sire;
And behold how fitting the time! for here do I cover my fire."
- "I see the fire for the cooking but never the meat to cook,"
Said Tamatea.--"Tut!" said Rahero.  "Here in the brook
And there in the tumbling sea, the fishes are thick as flies,
Hungry like healthy men, and like pigs for savour and size:
Crayfish crowding the river, sea-fish thronging the sea."
- "Well it may be," says the other, "and yet be nothing to me.
Fain would I eat, but alas!  I have needful matter in hand,
Since I carry my tribute of fish to the jealous king of the land."

Now at the word a light sprang in Rahero's eyes.
"I will gain me a dinner," thought he, "and lend the king a surprise."
And he took the lad by the arm, as they stood by the side of the track,
And smiled, and rallied, and flattered, and pushed him forward and back.
It was "You that sing like a bird, I never have heard you sing,"
And "The lads when I was a lad were none so feared of a king.
And of what account is an hour, when the heart is empty of guile?
But come, and sit in the house and laugh with the women awhile;
And I will but drop my hook, and behold! the dinner made."

So Tamatea the pliable hung up his fish in the shade
On a tree by the side of the way; and Rahero carried him in,
Smiling as smiles the fowler when flutters the bird to the gin,
And chose him a shining hook, {1e} and viewed it with sedulous eye,
And breathed and burnished it well on the brawn of his naked thigh,
And set a mat for the gull, and bade him be merry and bide,
Like a man concerned for his guest, and the fishing, and nothing beside.

Now when Rahero was forth, he paused and hearkened, and heard
The gull jest in the house and the women laugh at his word;
And stealthily crossed to the side of the way, to the shady place
Where the basket hung on a mango; and craft transfigured his face.
My mother belonged to the Halls, and father belonged to the
Glenns. They sold me away from my father and mother and I
was carried to the state of Kentucky. I was bought
by a Negro speculator by the name of Henry long who lived not
far from Hurdles Mill in Person County. I was not allowed to
tell my mother and father goodbye. I was bought and sold three times
in one day.

My father's time was hired out and as he knew a trade he
had by working overtime saved up a considerable amount of money.
After the speculator, Henry Long, bought me, mother went to father and
pled with him to buy me from him and let the white folks hire
me out. No slave could own a slave. Father got the consent and
help of his owners to buy me and they asked Long to put me
on the block again.

Long did so and named his price but when he learned
who had bid me off he backed down. Later in the day he put me on
the block and named another price much higher than the price
formerly set. He was asked by the white folks to name his
price for his bargain and he did so. I was again put on the
auction block and father bought me in, putting up the cash. Long
then flew into a rage and cursed my father saying, 'you damn black
son of a bitch, you think you are white do you? Now just
to show you are black, I will not let you have your son at any price.'
Father knew it was all off, mother was frantic but
there was nothing they could do about it. They had to stand
and see the speculator put me on his horse behind him and ride
away without allowing either of them to tell me goodbye. I
figure I was sold three times in one day, as the price
asked was offered in each instance.

Mother was told under threat of a whupping not to make any
outcry when I was carried away. He took me to his home, but on
the way he stopped for refreshments, at a plantation,
and while he was eating and drinking, he put me into a room
where two white women were spinning flax. I was given a seat across
the room from where they were working. After I had sat there awhile
wondering where I was going and thinking about mother
and home, I went to one of the women and asked, 'Missus when
will I see my mother again?' She replied, I don't know child,
go and sit down.

I went back to my seat and as I did so both the
women stopped spinning for a moment, looked at each
other, and one of them remarked. "Almighty God, this
slavery business is a horrible thing. Chances are this
boy will never see his mother again." This remark nearly
killed me, as I began to fully realize my situation. Long, the
Negro trader, soon came back, put me on his horse and finished the trip to
his home.

He kept me at his home awhile and then traded me to a man
named William Moore who lived in Person County. Moore at
this time was planning to move to Kentucky which he soon
did, taking me with him. My mother found out by the "Grapevine
telegraph" that I was going to be carried to Kentucky. She got permission and
came to see me before they carried me off. When she started
home I was allowed to go part of the way with her but they sent
two Negro girls with us to insure my return.

We were allowed to talk privately, but while we were doing so, the
two girls stood a short distance away and watched as the marster
told them when they left that if I escaped they would be
whipped every day until I was caught. When the time of parting
came and I had to turn back, I burst out crying loud.

I was so weak from sorrow I could not walk, and the two girls who
were with me took me by each arm and led me along half carrying me.

This man Moore carried me and several other slaves to
Kentucky. We traveled by train by way of Nashville, Tenn.

My thoughts are not familiar with the happenings of this
trip but I remember that we walked a long distance at one
place on the trip from one depot to another.

We finally reached Kentucky and Moore stopped at his brother's plantation
until he could buy one, then we moved on it.
My marster was named William Moore and my missus was named Martha Whitfield
Moore. It was a big plantation and he hired a lot of help
and had white tenants besides the land he worked with slaves.
There were only six slaves used as regular field hands
during his first year in Kentucky.

The food was generally common. Hog meat and cornbread most all
the time. Slaves got biscuits only on Sunday morning. Our clothes were
poor and I worked barefooted most of the time, winter and summer.

No books, papers or anything concerning education was allowed
the slaves by his rules and the customs of these times.

Marster Moore had four children among whom was one boy
about my age.
The girls were named Atona, Beulah, and Minnie, and the boy was
named Crosby. He was mighty brilliant. We played together.
He was the only white boy there, and he took a great liking
to me, and we loved each devotedly. Once in an undertone
he asked me how would I like to have an education. I was overjoyed at the
suggestion and he at once began to teach me secretly. I studied
hard and he soon had me so I could read and write well. I continued
studying and he continued teaching me. He furnished
me books and slipped all the papers he could get to me and I
was the best educated Negro in the community without anyone except
the slaves knowing what was going on.

All the slaves on marster's plantation lived the first year
we spent in Kentucky in a one room house with one fireplace. There was
a dozen or more who all lived in this one room house. Marster
built himself a large house having seven rooms.

He worked his slaves himself and never had any overseers. We worked
from sun to sun in the fields and then worked at the house after
getting in from the fields as long as we could see. I have never
seen a patteroller but when I left the plantation in slavery time
I got a pass. I have never seen a jail for slaves but I have
seen slaves whipped and I was whipped myself. I was whipped
particularly about a saddle I left out in the night
after using it during the day. My flesh was cut up so bad that the
scars are on me to this day.

We were not allowed to have prayer meetings, but we went to
the white folks church to services sometimes. There were no
looms, mills, or shops on the plantation at Marster Moore's.
I kept the name of Glenn through all the years as Marster Moore did not
change his slaves names to his family name. My mother
was named Martha Glenn and father was named Bob Glenn.

I was in the field when I first heard of the Civil War.
The woman who looked after Henry Hall and myself (both slaves)
told me she heard marster say old Abraham Lincoln was
trying to free the niggers. Marster finally pulled me up
and went and joined the Confederate Army. Kentucky split and
part joined the North and part the South. The war news kept
slipping through of success for first one side then the
other. Sometimes marster would come home, spend a few days and then
go again to the war.
It seemed he influenced a lot of men to join the southern
army, among them was a man named Enoch Moorehead. Moorehead was
killed in a few days after he joined the southern army.

Marster Moore fell out with a lot of his associates in the
army and some of them who were from the same community became his
bitter enemies.

Tom Foushee was one of them. Marster became so alarmed over
the threats on his life made by Foushee and others that he was
afraid to stay in his own home at night, and he built
a little camp one and one half miles from his home and he and
missus spent their nights there on his visits home. Foushee
finally came to the great house one night heavily armed,
came right on into the house and inquired for marster. We told
him marster was away. Foushee lay down on the floor and waited a long
time for him. Marster was at the little camp but we would not tell
where he was.

Foushee left after spending most of the night at marster's.
As he went out into the yard, when leaving, marster's bull dog
grawled at him and he shot him dead.

Marster went to Henderson, Kentucky, the County seat of
Henderson County, and surrendered to the Federal Army and
took the Oath of Allegiance. Up to that time I had seen a few Yankees.
They stopped now and then at marster's and got their
breakfast. They always asked about buttermilk, they seemed
to be very fond of it. They were also fond of ham, but we had the
ham meat buried in the ground, this was about the close
of the war. A big army of Yankees came through a few months later
and soon we heard of the surrender.

A few days after this marster told me to catch two horses that
we had to go to Dickenson which was the County seat of Webster
County. On the way to Dickenson he said to me, 'Bob, did you know
you are free and Lincoln has freed you? You are as free
as I am.' We went to the Freedmen's Bureau and went into the office.
A Yankee officer looked me over and asked marster my name, and
informed me I was free, and asked me whether or not I wanted to
keep living with Moore. I did not know what to
do, so I told him yes. A fixed price of seventy-five
dollars and board was then set as the salary I should receive
per year for my work. The Yankees told me to let
him know if I was not paid as agreed.

I went back home and stayed a year. During the year I hunted
a lot at night and thoroughly enjoyed being free. I took my
freedom by degrees and remained obedient and respectful,
but still wondering and thinking of what the future held
for me. After I retired at night I made plan after plan and built
aircastles as to what I would do. At this time I
formed a great attachment for the white man, Mr. Atlas Chandler, with
whom I hunted. He bought my part of the game we caught and favored
me in other ways. Mr. Chandler had a friend, Mr. Dewitt
Yarborough, who was an adventurer, and trader, and half
brother to my ex-marster, Mr. Moore, with whom I was then
staying. He is responsible for me taking myself into my own hands
and getting out of feeling I was still under obligations to ask my
marster or missus when I desired to leave the premises. Mr.
Yarborough's son was off at school at a place called Kiloh, Kentucky,
and he wanted to carry a horse to him and also take along some other
animals for trading purposes.

He offered me a new pair of pants to make the trip for him
and I accepted the job. I delivered the horse to his son and started
for home. On the way back I ran into Uncle Squire Yarborough
who once belonged to Dewitt Yarborough. He persuaded me to go home
with him and go with him to a wedding in Union County,
Kentucky. The wedding was twenty miles away and we walked the
entire distance. It was a double wedding, two couples were
married.
Georgianna Hawkins was married to George Ross and Steve Carter
married a woman whose name I do not remember. This was in the winter
during the Christmas Holidays and I stayed in the community
until about the first of January, then I went back home. I had
been thinking for several days before I went back home as to just
what I must tell Mr. Moore and as to how he felt about
the matter, and what I would get when I got home.
In my dilema I almost forgot I was free.

I got home at night and my mind and
heart was full but I was surprised at the way he treated me.
He acted kind and asked me if I was going to stay with him next year.
I was pleased. I told him, yes sir! and then I lay down and
went to sleep. He had a boss man on his plantation then and next
morning he called me, but I just couldn't wake. I seemed to be in a
trance or something, I had recently lost so much sleep. He called me
the second time and still I di [HW: d] not get up. Then he
came in and spanked my head. I jumped up and went to work feeding
the stock and splitting wood for the day's cooking and
fires. I then went in and ate my breakfast. Mr. Moore told
me to hitch a team of horses to a wagon and go to a
neighbors five miles away for a load of hogs. I refused to do so. They called
me into the house and asked me what I was going to do
about it. I said I do not know. As I said that I stepped
out of the door and left. I went straight to the county seat
and hired to Dr.
George Rasby in Webster County for one hundred dollars per year.
I stayed there one year. I got uneasy in Kentucky. The whites
treated the blacks awful bad so I decided to go to Illinois
as I thought a Negro might have a better chance there,
it being a northern state.

I was kindly treated and soon began to save money, but all through
the years there was a thought that haunted me in my dreams and
in my waking hours, and this thought was of my mother, whom I had not
seen or heard of in many years. Finally one cold morning
in early December I made a vow that I was going to North
Carolina and see my mother if she was still living.
I had plenty of money for the trip. I wrote the postmaster
in Roxboro, North Carolina, asking him to inform my mother
I was still living, and telling him the circumstances,
mailing a letter at the same time telling her I was still
alive but saying nothing of my intended visit to her. I
left Illinois bound for North Carolina on December 15th and
in a few days I was at my mother's home. I tried to fool them. There
were two men with me and they called me by a ficticious name,
but when I shook my mother's hand I held it a little too long and
she suspicioned something still she held herself until she was more
sure.

When she got a chance she came to me and said ain't you
my child? Tell me ain't you my child whom I left on the road near Mr. Moore's
before the war? I broke down and began to cry. Mother nor
father did not know me, but mother suspicioned I was her child. Father
had a few days previously remarked that he did not want to
die without seeing his son once more. I could not find language to express
my feeling. I did not know before I came home whether my parents were
dead or alive. This Christmas I spent in the county and state
of my birth and childhood; with mother, father and freedom
was the happiest period of my entire life, because those who were
torn apart in bondage and sorrow several years previous were now
united in freedom and happiness.

EH

N. C. District: No. 3 [ ] Worker: Travis Jordan Subject:
SARAH ANNE GREEN Ex-Slave, 78 Years Durham County
[TR: No Date Stamp]
SARAH ANNE GREEN EX-SLAVE 78 YEARS

My mammy an' pappy wuz Anderson an' Hannah Watson.
We fus' belonged to Marse Billy an' Mis Roby Watson, but
when Marse Billy's daughter, Mis' Susie ma'ied young
Marse Billy Headen, Ole Marse give her me, an' my mammy
an' my pappy for er weddin' gif'. So, I growed up as Sarah
Anne Headen.

My pappy had blue eyes. Dey wuz jus' like Marse Billy's eyes,
kaze Ole Marse wuz pappy's marster an' his pappy too. Ole Marse wuz
called Hickory Billy, dey called him dat kaze he chewed hickory
bark. He wouldn' touch 'bacca, but he kept er twis' of dis bark in
his pocket mos' all de time.

He would make us chillun go down whare de niggers wuz
splittin' rails an' peel dis bark off de logs befo' dey wuz split.
De stuff he chewed come off de log right under de bark. After dey'd
skin de logs we'd peel off dis hickory 'bacca in long strips
an' make it up in twis's for Ole Marse. It wuz yellah an'
tas' sweet an' sappy, an' he'd chew an' spit, an' chew an' spit.
Mis' Roby wouldn' 'low no chewin' in de house, but Ole Marse sho
done some spittin' outside.

He could stan' in de barn door an' spit clear up
in de lof'.

Ole Marse an' Mis Roby lived on er big plantation near Goldston
an' dey had 'bout three hundred slaves. Hannah, my mammy, wuz
de head seamstress. She had to 'ten' to de makin' of all de
slaves clothes. De niggers had good clothes. De cloth wuz home
woven in de weavin' room.
Ten niggers didn' do nothin' but weave, but every slave had
one Sunday dress a year made out of store bought cloth.
Ole Marse seed to dat. Ole Marse made de niggers go
to chu'ch too. He had er meetin' house on plantation an' every
Sunday we wuz ma'ched to meetin'.

Dey wuz preachin' every other Sunday an' Sunday School every Sunday.

Marse Billy an' Mis' Roby teached de Sunday School, but dey didn'
teach us to read an' write, no suh, dey sho didn'.

If dey'd see us wid er book dey'd whip us. Dey said niggers
didn' need no knowledge; dat dey mus' do what dey wuz
tole to do. Marse Billy wuz er doctor too. He doctored de slaves
when dey got sick, an' if dey got bad off he sen' for er sho
nuff doctor an' paid de bills.

Every Chris'mas Marse Billy give de niggers er big time. He
called dem up to de big house an' give dem er bag of candy,
niggertoes, an' sugar plums, den he say: 'Who wants er egg nog,
boys?' All dem dat wants er dram hol' up dey han's.' Yo' never
seed such holdin' up of han's. I would hol' up mine too, an' Ole Marse
would look at me an say, 'Go 'way from hear, Sarah Anne, yo' too
little to be callin' for nog.' But he fill up de glass jus' de same
an' put in er extra spoon of sugar an' give it to me. Dat sho wuz
good nog. 'Twuz all foamy wid whipped cream an' rich wid eggs.
Marse Billy an' Mis' Roby served it demselves from dey Sunday
cut glass nog bowl, an' it kept Estella an' Rosette busy fillin'
it up. Marse Billy wuz er good man.

When de war come on Marse Billy was too ole to go, but young Marse
Billy an' Marse Gaston went.

Dey wuz Ole Marse's two boys. Young Marse Billy Headen,
Mis' Susie's husban' went too.

De day Ole Marse heard dat de Yankees wuz comin' he took all de meat
'cept two or three pieces out of de smoke house, den he
got de silver an' things an' toted dem to de wood pile. He dug er hole
an'
buried dem, den he covered de place wid chips, but wid dat he wuzn'
satisfied, so he made pappy bring er load of wood an' throw it on
top of it, so when de Yankees come dey didn' fin' it.

When de Yankees come up in de yard Marse Billy took Mis' Roby an'
locked her up in dey room, den he walk 'roun' an'
watched de Yankees, but dey toted off what dey wanted. I wuzn'
skeered of de Yankees; I thought dey wuz pretty mens in dey blue
coats an' brass buttons. I followed dem all 'roun' beggin' for dey
coat buttons. I ain't never seed nothin' as pretty as dem buttons.
When dey lef' I followed dem way down de road still beggin', 'twell
one of dem Yankees pull off er button an' give it to me. 'Hear,
Nigger,' he say, 'take dis button. I's givin' it to you kaze yo's
got blue eyes. I ain't never seed blue eyes in er black face befo'.'
I had blue eyes like pappy an' Marse Billy, an' I kept dat Yankee
button 'twell I wuz ma'ied, den I los' it.
De wus' thing I know dat happened, in de war wuz when Mis' Roby
foun' de Yankee sojer in de ladies back house.
Down at de back of de garden behin' de row of lilac bushes wuz de
two back houses, one for de mens an' one for de ladies. Mis' Roby
went down to dis house one day, an' when she opened de door, dare
lay er Yankee sojer on de floor. His head wuz tied up wid er bloody
rag an' he look like he wuz dead.
Mammy say she seed Mis' Roby when she come out. She looked skeered
but she didn' scream nor nothin'. When she seed mammy she motioned
to her.
She tole her 'bout de Yankee. 'He's jus' er boy, Hannah,' she say,
'he ain't no older den Marse Gaston, an' he's hurt. We got to do
somethin' an' we can't tell nobody.' Den she sen' mammy to de house
for er pan of hot water, de scissors an' er ole sheet. Mis' Roby
cut off de bloody ran an' wash dat sojer boy's head den she tied
up de cut places. Den she went to de house an' made mammy slip him
er big milk toddy. 'Bout dat time she seed some ho'seman comin'
down de road. When dey got closer she seed dey wuz 'Federate sojers.
Dey rode up in de yard an' Marse Billy went out to meet dem. Dey
tole him dat dey wuz lookin' for er Yankee prisoner dat done got
away from dey camp.The post glowed in the grain with ulcers of eating fire,
And the fire bit to the blood and mangled his hands and thighs;
And the fumes sang in his head like wine and stung in his eyes;
And still he climbed, and came to the top, the place of proof,
And thrust a hand through the flame, and clambered alive on the roof.
But even as he did so, the wind, in a garment of flames and pain,
Wrapped him from head to heel; and the waistcloth parted in twain;
And the living fruit of his loins dropped in the fire below.

About the blazing feast-house clustered the eyes of the foe,
Watching, hand upon weapon, lest ever a soul should flee,
Shading the brow from the glare, straining the neck to see
Only, to leeward, the flames in the wind swept far and wide,
And the forest sputtered on fire; and there might no man abide.
Thither Rahero crept, and dropped from the burning eaves,
And crouching low to the ground, in a treble covert of leaves
And fire and volleying smoke, ran for the life of his soul
Unseen; and behind him under a furnace of ardent coal,
Cairned with a wonder of flame, and blotting the night with smoke,
Blazed and were smelted together the bones of all his folk.

He fled unguided at first; but hearing the breakers roar,
Thitherward shaped his way, and came at length to the shore.
Sound-limbed he was:  dry-eyed; but smarted in every part;
And the mighty cage of his ribs heaved on his straining heart
With sorrow and rage.  And "Fools!" he cried, "fools of Vaiau,
Heads of swine--gluttons--Alas! and where are they now?
Those that I played with, those that nursed me, those that I nursed?
God, and I outliving them!  I, the least and the worst -
I, that thought myself crafty, snared by this herd of swine,
In the tortures of hell and desolate, stripped of all that was mine:
All!--my friends and my fathers--the silver heads of yore
That trooped to the council, the children that ran to the open door
Crying with innocent voices and clasping a father's knees!
And mine, my wife--my daughter--my sturdy climber of trees
Ah, never to climb again!"

Thus in the dusk of the night,
(For clouds rolled in the sky and the moon was swallowed from sight,)
Pacing and gnawing his fists, Rahero raged by the shore.
Vengeance:  that must be his.  But much was to do before;
And first a single life to be snatched from a deadly place,
A life, the root of revenge, surviving plant of the race:
And next the race to be raised anew, and the lands of the clan
Repeopled.  So Rahero designed, a prudent man
Even in wrath, and turned for the means of revenge and escape:
A boat to be seized by stealth, a wife to be taken by rape.

Still was the dark lagoon; beyond on the coral wall,
He saw the breakers shine, he heard them bellow and fall.
Alone, on the top of the reef, a man with a flaming brand
Walked, gazing and pausing, a fish-spear poised in his hand.
The foam boiled to his calf when the mightier breakers came,
And the torch shed in the wind scattering tufts of flame.
Afar on the dark lagoon a canoe lay idly at wait:
A figure dimly guiding it:  surely the fisherman's mate.
Rahero saw and he smiled.  He straightened his mighty thews:
Naked, with never a weapon, and covered with scorch and bruise,
He straightened his arms, he filled the void of his body with breath,
And, strong as the wind in his manhood, doomed the fisher to death.

Silent he entered the water, and silently swam, and came
There where the fisher walked, holding on high the flame.
Loud on the pier of the reef volleyed the breach of the sea;
And hard at the back of the man, Rahero crept to his knee
On the coral, and suddenly sprang and seized him, the elder hand
Clutching the joint of his throat, the other snatching the brand
Ere it had time to fall, and holding it steady and high.
Strong was the fisher, brave, and swift of mind and of eye -
Strongly he threw in the clutch; but Rahero resisted the strain,
And jerked, and the spine of life snapped with a crack in twain,
And the man came slack in his hands and tumbled a lump at his feet.

One moment:  and there, on the reef, where the breakers whitened and beat,
Rahero was standing alone, glowing and scorched and bare,
A victor unknown of any, raising the torch in the air.
But once he drank of his breath, and instantly set him to fish
Like a man intent upon supper at home and a savoury dish.
For what should the woman have seen?  A man with a torch--and then
A moment's blur of the eyes--and a man with a torch again.
And the torch had scarcely been shaken.  "Ah, surely," Rahero said,
"She will deem it a trick of the eyes, a fancy born in the head;
But time must be given the fool to nourish a fool's belief."
So for a while, a sedulous fisher, he walked the reef,
Pausing at times and gazing, striking at times with the spear:
- Lastly, uttered the call; and even as the boat drew near,
Like a man that was done with its use, tossed the torch in the sea.

Lightly he leaped on the boat beside the woman; and she
Lightly addressed him, and yielded the paddle and place to sit;
For now the torch was extinguished the night was black as the pit
Rahero set him to row, never a word he spoke,
And the boat sang in the water urged by his vigorous stroke.
- "What ails you?" the woman asked, "and why did you drop the brand?
We have only to kindle another as soon as we come to land."
Never a word Rahero replied, but urged the canoe.
And a chill fell on the woman.--"Atta! speak! is it you?
Speak!  Why are you silent?  Why do you bend aside?
Wherefore steer to the seaward?" thus she panted and cried.
Never a word from the oarsman, toiling there in the dark;
But right for a gate of the reef he silently headed the bark,
And wielding the single paddle with passionate sweep on sweep,
Drove her, the little fitted, forth on the open deep.
And fear, there where she sat, froze the woman to stone:
Not fear of the crazy boat and the weltering deep alone;
But a keener fear of the night, the dark, and the ghostly hour,
And the thing that drove the canoe with more than a mortal's power
And more than a mortal's boldness.  For much she knew of the dead
That haunt and fish upon reefs, toiling, like men, for bread,
And traffic with human fishers, or slay them and take their ware,
Till the hour when the star of the dead {1o} goes down, and the morning air
Blows, and the cocks are singing on shore.  And surely she knew
The speechless thing at her side belonged to the grave. {1p}

It blew
All night from the south; all night, Rahero contended and kept
The prow to the cresting sea; and, silent as though she slept,
The woman huddled and quaked.  And now was the peep of day.
High and long on their left the mountainous island lay;
And over the peaks of Taiarapu arrows of sunlight struck.
On shore the birds were beginning to sing:  the ghostly ruck
Of the buried had long ago returned to the covered grave;
And here on the sea, the woman, waxing suddenly brave,
Turned her swiftly about and looked in the face of the man.
And sure he was none that she knew, none of her country or clan:
A stranger, mother-naked, and marred with the marks of fire,
But comely and great of stature, a man to obey and admire.

And Rahero regarded her also, fixed, with a frowning face,
Judging the woman's fitness to mother a warlike race.
Broad of shoulder, ample of girdle, long in the thigh,
Deep of bosom she was, and bravely supported his eye.

"Woman," said he, "last night the men of your folk -
Man, woman, and maid, smothered my race in smoke.
It was done like cowards; and I, a mighty man of my hands,
Escaped, a single life; and now to the empty lands
And smokeless hearths of my people, sail, with yourself, alone.
Before your mother was born, the die of to-day was thrown
And you selected:- your husband, vainly striving, to fall
Broken between these hands:- yourself to be severed from all,
The places, the people, you love--home, kindred, and clan -
And to dwell in a desert and bear the babes of a kinless man."


Later I went into public service, teaching in four months year the
public schools.

My salary was course$ 25.00 per month. I 43 years would be teaching now, but
I have high blood pressure. I was at Master Hollands at Smithfield when
the Yankees came through five. They went into my Marster's store
and kept going a to school at Shaw until I could get a first grade teacher's.
I never graduated. I taught in the certificate public schools for began
breaking then up matter and take what they wanted. They were dressed have
in blue and I Burton, and my did not know who they were. so much
Indian blood in him I asked and someone told me they were the
Yankees.

My father was named mother was named Queen Anne. Father was a Freeman whip
should. My father went in to see young Missus and told there was no more" to
it. Father helped build the breastworks in came home before the war ended,
Old Marster said the Eastern part of her about it, and let her know and
mother was a Wiggins. There were no churches the plantation My father told
me a story about his young master, Joe Freeman and my father's brother Soloman.
Marster fight got Soloman to activity he was going away. He had got the
cradle sword and said he would kill either of them if they bothered him. Father
that he fight. He ran stayed four years and passed for a free
nigger.

He stayed in Bancomb Settlement in Johnson County. When he' Soloman why
did n't you stay' father said,' I have been off long enough'. Marster said'
Go work', and the State down at Ft.
She dwelt at least about Tepari,--"the sea-cliffs,"--the eastern
fastness of the isle; walked by paths known only to herself upon the
mountains; was courted by dangerous suitors who came swimming from adjacent
islands, and defended and rescued (as I gather) by the loyalty of native
fish.  My anxiety to learn more of "Ahupu Vehine" became (during my stay in
Taiarapu) a cause of some diversion to that mirthful people, the inhabitants.

{1c}  "Covered an oven."  The cooking fire is made in a hole in the ground,
and is then buried.

{1d}  "Flies."  This is perhaps an anachronism.  Even speaking of to-day in
Tahiti, the phrase would have to be understood as referring mainly to
mosquitoes, and these only in watered valleys with close woods, such as I
suppose to form the surroundings of Rahero's homestead.  Quarter of a mile
away, where the air moves freely, you shall look in vain for one.

{1e}  "Hook" of mother-of-pearl.  Bright-hook fishing, and that with the
spear, appear to be the favourite native methods.

{1f}  "Leaves," the plates of Tahiti.

{1g}  "Yottowas," so spelt for convenience of pronunciation, quasi Tacksmen
in the Scottish Highlands.  The organisation of eight subdistricts and eight
yottowas to a division, which was in use (until yesterday) among the Tevas, I
have attributed without authority to the next clan:  see page 33.

{1h}  "Omare," pronounce as a dactyl.  A loaded quarter-staff, one of the two
favourite weapons of the Tahitian brave; the javelin, or casting spear, was
the other.

{1i}  "The ribbon of light."  Still to be seen (and heard) spinning from one
marae to another on Tahiti; or so I have it upon evidence that would rejoice
the Psychical Society.

{1j}  "Namunu-ura."  The complete name is Namunu-ura te aropa.  Why it should
be pronounced Namunu, dactyllically, I cannot see, but so I have always heard
it.  This was the clan immediately beyond the Tevas on the south coast of the
island.  At the date of the tale the clan organisation must have been very
weak.  There is no particular mention of Tamatea's mother going to Papara, to
the head chief of her own clan, which would appear her natural recourse.  On
the other hand, she seems to have visited various lesser chiefs among the
Tevas, and these to have excused themselves solely on the danger of the
enterprise.  The broad distinction here drawn between Nateva and Namunu-ura
is therefore not impossibly anachronistic.

{1k}  "Hiopa the king."  Hiopa was really the name of the king (chief) of
Vaiau; but I could never learn that of the king of Paea--pronounce to rhyme
with the Indian ayah--and I gave the name where it was most needed.  This
note must appear otiose indeed to readers who have never heard of either of
these two gentlemen; and perhaps there is only one person in the world
capable at once of reading my verses and spying the inaccuracy.  For him, for
Mr. Tati Salmon, hereditary high chief of the Tevas, the note is solely
written:  a small attention from a clansman to his chief.

{1l}  "Let the pigs be tapu."  It is impossible to explain tapu in a note; we
have it as an English word, taboo.  Suffice it, that a thing which was tapu
must not be touched, nor a place that was tapu visited.

{1m}  "Fish, the food of desire."  There is a special word in the Tahitian
language to signify HUNGERING AFTER FISH.  "And it must be taken advantage
of. So speak. Several times during our stay in Berlin I had the feeling that
you had a very special desire for something or other more."
"Well, dear mama, what can I say?

As a matter of fact I have everything that one needs, I mean that
one needs _here_.

But as it is
once for all decided that I am to go so far north--let me say in
passing that I have no objections; on the contrary I look forward
with pleasure to it, to the northern lights and the brighter splendor
of the stars--as this has been definitely decided, I should like
to have a set of furs."

"Why, Effi,
child, that is empty folly.

You are not going to St.
Petersburg or Archangel."
"No, but I am a part of the way."
"Certainly, child, you are a part of the way; but what does that mean?
If you go from here to Nauen you are, by the same train of reasoning, a part
of the way to Russia. However, if you want some furs you shall
have them.

But let me tell you beforehand, I advise you not to buy them.

Furs are proper for
elderly people; even your old mother is still too young for them,
and if you, in your seventeenth year, come out in mink or marten
the people of Kessin will consider it a masquerade."

It was on the second of September that these words were spoken, and
the conversation would doubtless have been continued, if it had not
happened to be the anniversary of the battle of Sedan.

But because of the day they were interrupted by the sound
of drum and fife, and Effi, who had heard before of the
proposed parade, but had meanwhile forgotten about
it, rushed suddenly away from the work-table, past the circular
plot and the pond, in the direction of a balcony built on
the churchyard wall, to which one could climb by six
steps not much broader than the rungs of a ladder.
In an instant she was at the top and, surely enough,
there came all the school children marching along,
Jahnke strutting majestically beside the right flank, while
a little drum major marched at the head of the procession,
several paces in advance, with an expression on his countenance
as though it were incumbent upon him to fight the
battle of Sedan all over again. Effi waved her handkerchief
and he promptly returned the greeting by a salute with his
shining baton.

A week later mother and daughter were again sitting in the same
place, busy, as before, with their work. It was an exceptionally
beautiful day; the heliotrope growing in a neat bed around
the sundial was still in bloom, and the soft breeze that was
stirring bore its fragrance over to them.

"Oh, how well I feel," said Effi, "so well and so happy! I
can't think of heaven as more beautiful. And, after all,
who knows whether they have such wonderful heliotrope
in heaven?"
"Why, Effi, you must not talk like that. You get that from
your father, to whom nothing is sacred. Not long ago he
even said:
'Niemeyer looks like Lot.' Unheard of. And what in the world
can he mean by it? In the first place he doesn't know how Lot looked,
and secondly it shows an absolute lack of consideration for
Hulda.
Luckily, Niemeyer has only the one daughter, and for this
reason the comparison really falls to the ground.

In one regard, to be sure, he was only too right, viz., in
each and every thing that he said about 'Lot's wife,' our good pastor's
better half, who again this year, as was to be expected, simply ruined our
Sedan celebration by her folly and presumption. By
the by it just occurs to me that we were interrupted in
our conversation when Jahnke came by with the school.
At least I cannot imagine that the furs, of which you were
speaking at that time, should have been your only wish. So
let me know, darling, what further things you have set your heart
upon."
"None, mama."
"Truly, none?"
"No, none, truly; perfectly in earnest. But, on second
thought, if there were anything--"
"Well?"
"It would be a Japanese bed screen, black, with gold birds on it,
all with long crane bills. And then perhaps, besides, a hanging
lamp for our bedroom, with a red shade."

Mrs. von Briest remained silent.

"Now you see, mama, you are silent and look as though I had
said something especially improper."
"No, Effi, nothing improper. Certainly not in the presence of
your mother, for I know you so well. You are a fantastic little
person, you like nothing better than to paint fanciful
pictures of the future, and the richer their coloring the
more beautiful and desirable they appear to you. I saw that
when we were buying the traveling articles.
And now you fancy it would be altogether adorable to have a
bed screen with a variety of fabulous beasts on it, all in the dim
light of a red hanging lamp.

It appeals to you as a fairy tale and you would like to be a
princess."
Effi took her mother's hand and kissed it. "Yes, mama, that is
my nature."

"Yes, that is your nature.

I know it only too well. But, my dear Effi, we must be
circumspect in life, and we women especially. Now when you go to
Kessin, a small place, where hardly a streetlamp is lit at
night, the people will laugh at such things.
And if they would only stop with laughing! Those who
are ill-disposed toward you--and there are always some--will
speak of your bad bringing-up, and many will doubtless
say even worse things."
"Nothing Japanese, then, and no hanging lamp either. But I confess I
had thought it would be so beautiful and poetical to see
everything in a dim red light."
Mrs. von Briest was moved. She got up and kissed
Effi. "You are a child. Beautiful and poetical. Nothing
but fancies. The reality is different, and often it is
well that there should be dark instead of light and shimmer."
Effi seemed on the point of answering, but at this moment Wilke came
and brought some letters. One was from Kessin, from Innstetten.
"Ah, from Geert," said Effi, and putting the letter in her
pocket, she continued in a calm tone: "But you surely
will allow me to set the grand piano across one corner of the room.

I care more for that than for the open fireplace that
Geert has promised me. And then I am going to put your portrait
on an easel.

I can't be entirely without you. Oh, how I
shall be homesick to see you, perhaps even
on the wedding tour, and most certainly in
Kessin.

Why, they say the place has no garrison, not even a
staff surgeon, and how fortunate it is that it is
at least a watering place. Cousin von Briest, upon
whom I shall rely as my chief support, always goes with his mother
and sister to Warnemunde.

Now I really do not see why he should not, for a change,
some day direct our dear relatives toward Kessin.
Besides, 'direct' seems to suggest a position on the staff,
to which, I believe, he aspires. And then, of course,
he will come along and live at our house. Moreover Kessin, as somebody
just recently told me, has a rather large steamer, which
runs over to Sweden twice a week. And on the ship there
is dancing (of course they have a band on board), and he
dances very well."
"Who?"

"Why, Dagobert."
"I thought you meant Innstetten. In any case the time has
now come to know what he writes. You still have the letter
in your pocket, you know."
"That's right. I had almost forgotten it." She opened the letter
and glanced over it.

"Well, Effi, not a word? You are not beaming and
not even smiling. And yet he always writes such bright and
entertaining letters, and not a word of fatherly wisdom in
them."
"That I should not allow. He has his age and I have
my youth. I should shake my finger at him and say:
'Geert, consider which is better.'"
"And then he would answer: 'You have what is better.' For
he is not only a man of most refined manners, he is at the same
time just and sensible and knows very well what youth means.

He is always reminding himself of that and adapting
himself to youthful ways, and if he remains the same after
marriage you will lead a model married life."
"Yes, I think so, too, mama. But just imagine--and I
am almost ashamed to say it--I am not so very much in
favor of what is called a model married life."

"That is just like you. And now tell me, pray, what
are you really in favor of?"
"I am--well, I am in favor of like and like and naturally
also of tenderness and love. And if tenderness and love are
out of the question, because, as papa says, love is after all
only fiddle-faddle, which I, however, do not believe,
well, then I am in favor of wealth and an aristocratic house, a really
aristocratic one, to which Prince Frederick Charles will
come for an elk or grouse hunt, or where the old
Emperor will call and have a gracious word for
every lady, even for the younger ones. And then when we
are in Berlin I am for court balls and gala performances
at the Opera, with seats always close by the grand
central box."
"Do you say that out of pure sauciness and caprice?"

"No, mama, I am fully in earnest. Love comes first, but right after love come
splendor and honor, and then comes amusement--yes, amusement,
always something new, always something to make me laugh or weep.

The thing I cannot endure is _ennui_."
"If that is the case, how in the world have you managed
to get along with us?"
"Why, mama, I am amazed to hear you say such a thing.

To be sure, in the winter time, when our dear relatives
come driving up to see us and stay for six hours, or perhaps even
longer, and Aunt Gundel and Aunt Olga eye me from head
to foot and find me impertinent--and Aunt Gundel once told me that
I was--well, then occasionally it is not very pleasant, that I must
admit.

But otherwise I have always been happy here, so
happy--"
As she said the last words she fell, sobbing convulsively, at her
mother's feet and kissed her hands.

"Get up, Effi. Such emotions as these overcome one, when
one is as young as you and facing her wedding and the uncertain
future. But now read me the letter, unless it contains something
very special, or perhaps secrets."
"Secrets," laughed Effi and sprang to her feet in a suddenly changed
mood.

"Secrets!

Yes, yes, he is always coming to the point of telling
me some, but the most of what he writes might with perfect propriety
be posted on the bulletin board at the mayor's office, where
the ordinances of the district council are posted. But then, you know,
Geert is one of the councillors."
"Read, read."
"Dear Effi: The nearer we come to our wedding day, the more
scanty your letters grow. When the mail arrives I always look
first of all for your handwriting, but, as you know, all in vain,
as a rule, and yet I did not ask to have it otherwise.
The workmen are now in the house who are to prepare the rooms, few
in number, to be sure, for your coming.

The best part of the work will doubtless not be done till we
are on our journey. Paper-hanger Madelung, who is to furnish everything,
is an odd original. I shall tell you about him the next time.
Now I must tell you first of all how happy I am over
you, over my sweet little Effi. The very ground beneath my
feet here is on fire, and yet our good city is growing more
and more quiet and lonesome. The last summer guest left
yesterday. Toward the end he went swimming at nine degrees
above zero (Centigrade), and the attendants were always
rejoiced when he came out alive. For they feared a stroke
of apoplexy, which would give the baths a bad reputation, as though the
water were worse here than elsewhere. I rejoice when I think that in
four weeks I shall row with you from the Piazzetta out to the
Lido or to Murano, where they make glass beads and beautiful
jewelry. And the most beautiful shall be yours. Many greetings
to your parents and the tenderest kiss for yourself from your
Geert."

Effi folded the letter and put it back into the envelope.

"That is a very pretty letter," said Mrs. von Briest, "and that it
observes due moderation throughout is a further merit."

"Yes, due moderation it surely does observe."
"My dear Effi, let me ask a question. Do you wish that
the letter did not observe due moderation? Do you wish
that it were more affectionate, perhaps gushingly
affectionate?"
"No, no, mama. Honestly and truly no, I do not wish that.
So it is better as it is."
"So it is better as it is. There you go again. You are so queer.
And by the by, a moment ago you were weeping. Is
something troubling you?
It is not yet too late. Don't you love Geert?"
"Why shouldn't I love him? I love Hulda, and I love Bertha,
and I love Hertha. And I love old Mr. Niemeyer, too. And
that I love you and papa I don't even need to mention. I
love all who mean well by me and are kind to me and humor me.

No doubt Geert will humor me, too. To be sure, in his
own way. You see he is already thinking of giving me jewelry
in Venice. He hasn't the faintest suspicion that I care
nothing for jewelry. I care more for climbing and swinging and am always
happiest when I expect every moment that something will give
way or break and cause me to tumble. It will not cost me my head the first
time, you know."
"And perhaps you also love your Cousin von Briest?"

"Yes, very much. He always cheers me."
"And would you have liked to marry Cousin von Briest?"
"Marry? For heaven's sake no. Why, he is still
half a boy. Geert is a man, a handsome man, a man with whom I
can shine and he will make something of himself
in the world. What are you thinking of, mama?"
"Well, that is all right, Effi, I am glad to hear it.
But there is something else troubling you."
"Perhaps."
"Well, speak."
"You see, mama, the fact that he is older than I
does no harm. Perhaps that is a very good thing. After all he is
not old and is well and strong and is so soldierly
and so keen.

And I might almost say I am altogether in favor of
him, if he only--oh, if he were only a little bit
different."
"How, pray, Effi."

"Yes, how? Well, you must not laugh at me. It is something
that I only very recently overheard, over at the parsonage.
We were talking about Innstetten and all of a sudden old Mr.
Niemeyer wrinkled his forehead, in wrinkles of respect and
admiration, of course, and said:
'Oh yes, the Baron. He is a man of character, a man of
principles."
"And that he is, Effi."

"Certainly. And later, I believe, Niemeyer said he is even a
man of convictions. Now that, it seems to me, is something more. Alas,
and I--I have none. You see, mama, there is something
about this that worries me and makes me uneasy. He is so
dear and good to me and so considerate, but I am afraid of him."

CHAPTER V

The days of festivity at Hohen-Cremmen were past; all the guests
had departed, likewise the newly married couple, who left the evening
of the wedding day.

The nuptial-eve performance had pleased everybody, especially the
players, and Hulda had been the delight of all the young
officers, not only the Rathenow Hussars, but also their more critically
inclined comrades of the Alexander regiment. Indeed
everything had gone well and smoothly, almost better than expected.
The only thing to be regretted was that Bertha and Hertha had
sobbed so violently that Jahnke's Low German verses had been virtually
lost.

But even that had made but little difference. A
few fine connoisseurs had even expressed the opinion that, "to
tell the truth, forgetting what to say, sobbing, and
unintelligibility, together form the standard under which
the most decided victories are won, particularly in the case of
pretty, curly red heads." Cousin von Briest had won a signal triumph
in his self-composed rôle. He had appeared as one of Demuth's clerks,
who had found out that the young bride was planning to go to Italy
immediately after the wedding, for which reason he wished to deliver
to her a traveling trunk. This trunk proved, of course, to be a
giant box of bonbons from Hövel's. The dancing had continued till
three o'clock, with the effect that Briest, who had been gradually
talking himself into the highest pitch of champagne excitement, had
made various remarks about the torch dance, still in vogue at many
courts, and the remarkable custom of the garter dance. Since these
remarks showed no signs of coming to an end, and kept getting worse
and worse, they finally reached the point where they simply had to
be choked off.
"Pull yourself together, Briest," his wife had whispered to him in
a rather earnest tone; "you are not here for the purpose of making
indecent remarks, but of doing the honors of the house. We are
having at present a wedding and not a hunting party." Whereupon von
Briest answered: "I see no difference between the two; besides, I
am happy."
The wedding itself had also gone well, Niemeyer had conducted the
service in an exquisite fashion, and on the way home from the church
one of the old men from Berlin, who half-way belonged to the court
circle, made a remark to the effect that it was truly wonderful how
thickly talents are distributed in a state like ours. "I see therein
a triumph of our schools, and perhaps even more of our philosophy.
When I consider how this Niemeyer, an old village preacher, who at
first looked like a hospitaler--why, friend, what do you say?And cold from the clutch of terror, cold with the damp of the dew,
Taheia, heavy of hair, leaped through the dark to his arms;
Taheia leaped to his clasp, and was folded in from alarms.

"Rua, beloved, here, see what your love has brought;
Coming--alas! returning--swift as the shuttle of thought;
Returning, alas! for to-night, with the beaten drum and the voice,
In the shine of many torches must the sleepless clan rejoice;
And Taheia the well-descended, the daughter of chief and priest,
Taheia must sit in her place in the crowded bench of the feast."
So it was spoken; and she, girding her garment high,
Fled and was swallowed of woods, swift as the sight of an eye.

Night over isle and sea rolled her curtain of stars,
Then a trouble awoke in the air, the east was banded with bars;
Dawn as yellow as sulphur leaped on the mountain height;
Dawn, in the deepest glen, fell a wonder of light;
High and clear stood the palms in the eye of the brightening east,
And lo! from the sides of the sea the broken sound of the feast!
As, when in days of summer, through open windows, the fly
Swift as a breeze and loud as a trump goes by,
But when frosts in the field have pinched the wintering mouse,
Blindly noses and buzzes and hums in the firelit house:
So the sound of the feast gallantly trampled at night,
So it staggered and drooped, and droned in the morning light.


IV. THE RAID


It chanced that as Rua sat in the valley of silent falls,
He heard a calling of doves from high on the cliffy walls.
Fire had fashioned of yore, and time had broken, the rocks;
There were rooting crannies for trees and nesting-places for flocks;
And he saw on the top of the cliffs, looking up from the pit of the shade,
A flicker of wings and sunshine, and trees that swung in the trade.
"The trees swing in the trade," quoth Rua, doubtful of words,
"And the sun stares from the sky, but what should trouble the birds?"
Up from the shade he gazed, where high the parapet shone,
And he was aware of a ledge and of things that moved thereon.
"What manner of things are these?  Are they spirits abroad by day?
Or the foes of my clan that are come, bringing death by a perilous way?"

The valley was gouged like a vessel, and round like the vessel's lip,
With a cape of the side of the hill thrust forth like the bows of a ship.
On the top of the face of the cape a volley of sun struck fair,
And the cape overhung like a chin a gulph of sunless air.
"Silence, heart!  What is that?--that, that flickered and shone,
Into the sun for an instant, and in an instant gone?
Was it a warrior's plume, a warrior's girdle of hair?
Swung in the loop of a rope, is he making a bridge of the air?"

Once and again Rua saw, in the trenchant edge of the sky,
The giddy conjuring done.  And then, in the blink of an eye,
A scream caught in with the breath, a whirling packet of limbs,
A lump that dived in the gulph, more swift than a dolphin swims;
And there was the lump at his feet, and eyes were alive in the lump.
Sick was the soul of Rua, ambushed close in a clump;
Sick of soul he drew near, making his courage stout;
And he looked in the face of the thing, and the life of the thing went out.
And he gazed on the tattooed limbs, and, behold, he knew the man:
Hoka, a chief of the Vais, the truculent foe of his clan:
Hoka a moment since that stepped in the loop of the rope,
Filled with the lust of war, and alive with courage and hope.

Again to the giddy cornice Rua lifted his eyes,
And again beheld men passing in the armpit of the skies.
"Foes of my race!" cried Rua, "the mouth of Rua is true:
Never a shark in the deep is nobler of soul than you.
There was never a nobler foray, never a bolder plan;
Never a dizzier path was trod by the children of man;
And Rua, your evil-dealer through all the days of his years,
"Counts it honour to hate you, honour to fall by your spears."
And Rua straightened his back.  "O Vais, a scheme for a scheme!"
Cried Rua and turned and descended the turbulent stair of the stream,
Leaping from rock to rock as the water-wagtail at home
Flits through resonant valleys and skims by boulder and foam.
And Rua burst from the glen and leaped on the shore of the brook,
And straight for the roofs of the clan his vigorous way he took.
Swift were the heels of his flight, and loud behind as he went
Rattled the leaping stones on the line of his long descent.
And ever he thought as he ran, and caught at his gasping breath,
"O the fool of a Rua, Rua that runs to his death!
But the right is the right," thought Rua, and ran like the wind on the foam,
"The right is the right for ever, and home for ever home.
For what though the oven smoke?  And what though I die ere morn?
There was I nourished and tended, and there was Taheia born."
Noon was high on the High-place, the second noon of the feast;
And heat and shameful slumber weighed on people and priest;
And the heart drudged slow in bodies heavy with monstrous meals;
And the senseless limbs were scattered abroad like spokes of wheels;
And crapulous women sat and stared at the stones anigh
With a bestial droop of the lip and a swinish rheum in the eye.
As about the dome of the bees in the time for the drones to fall,
The dead and the maimed are scattered, and lie, and stagger, and crawl;
So on the grades of the terrace, in the ardent eye of the day,
The half-awake and the sleepers clustered and crawled and lay;
And loud as the dome of the bees, in the time of a swarming horde,
A horror of many insects hung in the air and roared.

Rua looked and wondered; he said to himself in his heart:
"Poor are the pleasures of life, and death is the better part."
But lo! on the higher benches a cluster of tranquil folk
Sat by themselves, nor raised their serious eyes, nor spoke:
Women with robes unruffled and garlands duly arranged,
Gazing far from the feast with faces of people estranged;
And quiet amongst the quiet, and fairer than all the fair,
Taheia, the well-descended, Taheia, heavy of hair.
And the soul of Rua awoke, courage enlightened his eyes,
And he uttered a summoning shout and called on the clan to rise.
Over against him at once, in the spotted shade of the trees,
Owlish and blinking creatures scrambled to hands and knees;
On the grades of the sacred terrace, the driveller woke to fear,
And the hand of the ham-drooped warrior brandished a wavering spear.
And Rua folded his arms, and scorn discovered his teeth;
Above the war-crowd gibbered, and Rua stood smiling beneath.
Thick, like leaves in the autumn, faint, like April sleet,
Missiles from tremulous hands quivered around his feet;
And Taheia leaped from her place; and the priest, the ruby-eyed,
Ran to the front of the terrace, and brandished his arms, and cried:
"Hold, O fools, he brings tidings!" and "Hold, 'tis the love of my heart!"
Till lo! in front of the terrace, Rua pierced with a dart.

Taheia cherished his head, and the aged priest stood by,
And gazed with eyes of ruby at Rua's darkening eye.
"Taheia, here is the end, I die a death for a man.
I have given the life of my soul to save an unsavable clan.
See them, the drooping of hams! behold me the blinking crew:
Fifty spears they cast, and one of fifty true!
And you, O priest, the foreteller, foretell for yourself if you can,
Foretell the hour of the day when the Vais shall burst on your clan!
By the head of the tapu cleft, with death and fire in their hand,
Thick and silent like ants, the warriors swarm in the land."

And they tell that when next the sun had climbed to the noonday skies,
It shone on the smoke of feasting in the country of the Vais.


NOTES TO THE FEAST OF FAMINE


In this ballad, I have strung together some of the more striking
particularities of the Marquesas.  It rests upon no authority; it is in no
sense, like "Rahero," a native story; but a patchwork of details of manners
and the impressions of a traveller.  It may seem strange, when the scene is
laid upon these profligate islands, to make the story hinge on love.  But
love is not less known in the Marquesas than elsewhere; nor is there any
cause of suicide more common in the islands.

{2a}  "Pit of Popoi."  Where the breadfruit was stored for preservation.

{2b}  "Ruby-red."  The priest's eyes were probably red from the abuse of
kava.  His beard (ib.) is said to be worth an estate; for the beards of old
men are the favourite head adornment of the Marquesans, as the hair of women
formed their most costly girdle.  The former, among this generally beardless
and short-lived people, fetch to-day considerable sums.

{2c}  "Tikis."  The tiki is an ugly image hewn out of wood or stone.

{2d}  "The one-stringed harp."  Usually employed for serenades.

{2e}  "The sacred cabin of palm."  Which, however, no woman could approach.
I do not know where women were tattooed; probably in the common house, or in
the bush, for a woman was a creature of small account.  I must guard the
reader against supposing Taheia was at all disfigured; the art of the
Marquesan tattooer is extreme; and she would appear to be clothed in a web of
lace, inimitably delicate, exquisite in pattern, and of a bluish hue that at
once contrasts and harmonises with the warm pigment of the native skin.  It
would be hard to find a woman more becomingly adorned than "a well-tattooed"
Marquesan.

{2f}  "The horror of night."  The Polynesian fear of ghosts and of the dark
has been already referred to.  Their life is beleaguered by the dead.

{2g}  "The quiet passage of souls."  So, I am told, the natives explain the
sound of a little wind passing overhead unfelt.

{2h}  "The first of the victims fell."  Without doubt, this whole scene is
untrue to fact.  The victims were disposed of privately and some time before.
And indeed I am far from claiming the credit of any high degree of accuracy
for this ballad.  Even in a time of famine, it is probable that Marquesan
life went far more gaily than is here represented.  But the melancholy of to-
day lies on the writer's mind.


TICONDEROGA
A LEGEND OF THE WEST HIGHLANDS


TICONDEROGA


This is the tale of the man
Who heard a word in the night
In the land of the heathery hills,
In the days of the feud and the fight.
By the sides of the rainy sea,
Where never a stranger came,
On the awful lips of the dead,
He heard the outlandish name.
It sang in his sleeping ears,
It hummed in his waking head:
The name--Ticonderoga,
The utterance of the dead.


I. THE SAYING OF THE NAME


On the loch-sides of Appin,
When the mist blew from the sea,
A Stewart stood with a Cameron:
An angry man was he.
The blood beat in his ears,
The blood ran hot to his head,
The mist blew from the sea,
And there was the Cameron dead.
"O, what have I done to my friend,
O, what have I done to mysel',
That he should be cold and dead,
And I in the danger of all?

Nothing but danger about me,
Danger behind and before,
Death at wait in the heather
In Appin and Mamore,
Hate at all of the ferries
And death at each of the fords,
Camerons priming gunlocks
And Camerons sharpening swords."

But this was a man of counsel,
This was a man of a score,
There dwelt no pawkier Stewart
In Appin or Mamore.
He looked on the blowing mist,
He looked on the awful dead,
And there came a smile on his face
And there slipped a thought in his head.

Out over cairn and moss,
Out over scrog and scaur,
He ran as runs the clansman
That bears the cross of war.
His heart beat in his body,
His hair clove to his face,
When he came at last in the gloaming
To the dead man's brother's place.
The east was white with the moon,
The west with the sun was red,
And there, in the house-doorway,
Stood the brother of the dead.

"I have slain a man to my danger,
I have slain a man to my death.
I put my soul in your hands,"
The panting Stewart saith.
"I lay it bare in your hands,
For I know your hands are leal;
And be you my targe and bulwark
From the bullet and the steel."

Then up and spoke the Cameron,
And gave him his hand again:
"There shall never a man in Scotland
Set faith in me in vain;
And whatever man you have slaughtered,
Of whatever name or line,
By my sword and yonder mountain,
I make your quarrel mine. {3a}
I bid you in to my fireside,
I share with you house and hall;
It stands upon my honour
To see you safe from all."

It fell in the time of midnight,
When the fox barked in the den
And the plaids were over the faces
In all the houses of men,
That as the living Cameron
Lay sleepless on his bed,
Out of the night and the other world,
Came in to him the dead.

"My blood is on the heather,
My bones are on the hill;
There is joy in the home of ravens
That the young shall eat their fill.
My blood is poured in the dust,
My soul is spilled in the air;
And the man that has undone me
Sleeps in my brother's care."

"I'm wae for your death, my brother,
But if all of my house were dead,
I couldnae withdraw the plighted hand,
Nor break the word once said."

"O, what shall I say to our father,
In the place to which I fare?
O, what shall I say to our mother,
Who greets to see me there?
And to all the kindly Camerons
That have lived and died long-syne -
Is this the word you send them,
Fause-hearted brother mine?"

"It's neither fear nor duty,
It's neither quick nor dead
Shall gar me withdraw the plighted hand,
Or break the word once said."

Thrice in the time of midnight,
When the fox barked in the den,
And the plaids were over the faces
In all the houses of men,
Thrice as the living Cameron
Lay sleepless on his bed,
Out of the night and the other world
Came in to him the dead,
And cried to him for vengeance
On the man that laid him low;
And thrice the living Cameron
Told the dead Cameron, no.

"Thrice have you seen me, brother,
But now shall see me no more,
Till you meet your angry fathers
Upon the farther shore.
Thrice have I spoken, and now,
Before the cock be heard,
I take my leave for ever
With the naming of a word.
It shall sing in your sleeping ears,
It shall hum in your waking head,
The name--Ticonderoga,
And the warning of the dead."

Now when the night was over
And the time of people's fears,
The Cameron walked abroad,
And the word was in his ears.
"Many a name I know,
But never a name like this;
O, where shall I find a skilly man
Shall tell me what it is?"
The positive and negative poles
are those that play into
each other with most marvellous
effect. Each repels its like
and rushes to the embrace of
its opposite. Extremes
lovingly meet everywhere. A brunette
selects a blonde and a
blonde a brunette, as a general
rule in matrimony. A tall man or
woman, with rare exceptions,
chooses a short companion for
life. Dark eyes delight in
those that are light, and _vice-versa_.
Everywhere nature seeks diversity, not
similitude. The gayest and
brightest feathered songster
craves companionship in modest and
unobtrusive colors. Diversity is
the law of life, as equality, or versimilitude, is that of death.

Neither natural selection, nor sexual selection, runs counter to
this law.

If Mr. Darwin's theory were true, that
likes selected likes, then the two
marked extremes which should have
characterized the race, soon
after its emergence from the semi-human
state, should have been
giants and pigmies, Gargantuas and
Lilliputs. Otherwise
"sexual selection," as
treated by its author, plays
no intelligible part in the economy
of nature, except to counterbalance variability, not to propagate
it.

But the Darwinian assumption
that the primeval man,
or his immediate ape-like
progenitor, came through "natural
selection," that is, through
the "survival of the fittest,"
is subject to one or two other
objections which we shall briefly notice.

And the first objection is
not altogether a technical
one. The term "fittest," as applied
to a monkey, has at once a definite
and comprehensive
significance to us. It
implies the presence of
whatever is most perfect of
its kind in the monkey _as_ a
monkey, and not in the
monkey _as_ something
else than a monkey. They
are all admirably adapted for
climbing trees; and it
is this adaptation that secures
them safety, or complete immunity, in shelter from their enemies.

To say that nature selects the
fittest for them--for any
species of monkey--by converting
their forefeet into rudimentary
hands, with a loss of
prehension and no corresponding
advantages in locomotion, is
to use language without any
appreciable significance
to us. We can only say that
what is fittest for the monkey is
ill-fitted for man, and the reverse.

This is all we can definitely predicate
of them, from what we know
of their anatomical structure, and the
diversified uses to which it
may be put.

The fact is, as the Bible genesis shows,
that every living thing is perfect of
its kind, and whatever is perfect
admits of no Darwinian variations
or improvements for the better. And the
simple statement of this undeniable proposition is, we submit, a
complete refutation of Darwinism.

When the waters and the earth were commanded to bring forth abundantly
of every living creature and every living thing, "it was so, and
God saw that it was good," that is, everything perfect of its kind,
and in its kind.

With this single limitation as to
kind, a rattlesnake is
no less perfect than a Plato or a John
Howard.

When we consider man's upright
position; the firmness and steadiness with
which he plants his foot upon the earth; when we examine the
mechanism of his hand, and the wonderful and almost unlimited range
it possesses for diversified use; when we see how ill-fitted he is
for climbing trees, yet how express and admirable for climbing among
the stars, even to the outermost milky-way, the idea that what is
fittest for him is fit for the chattering monkey, is too absurd to
give us pause.

And yet how does Mr.
It fell in the quiet night,
There was never a sound to ken;
But all of the woods to the right and the left
Lay filled with the painted men.

"Far have I been and much have I seen,
Both as a man and boy,
But never have I set forth a foot
On so perilous an employ."
It fell in the dusk of the night
When unco things betide,
That he was aware of a captain-man
Drew near to the waterside.
He was aware of his coming
Down in the gloaming alone;
And he looked in the face of the man
And lo! the face was his own.
"This is my weird," he said,
"And now I ken the worst;
For many shall fall the morn,
But I shall fall with the first.
O, you of the outland tongue,
You of the painted face,
This is the place of my death;
Can you tell me the name of the place?"
"Since the Frenchmen have been here
They have called it Sault-Marie;
But that is a name for priests,
And not for you and me.
It went by another word,"
Quoth he of the shaven head:
"It was called Ticonderoga
In the days of the great dead."

And it fell on the morrow's morning,
In the fiercest of the fight,
That the Cameron bit the dust
As he foretold at night;
And far from the hills of heather
Far from the isles of the sea,
He sleeps in the place of the name
As it was doomed to be.


NOTES TO TICONDEROGA


INTRODUCTION.--I first heard this legend of my own country from that friend
of men of letters, Mr. Alfred Nutt, "there in roaring London's central
stream," and since the ballad first saw the light of day in Scribner's
Magazine, Mr. But the of Commons, though greedy for joy, will never
stand. A remarkable, menaces distinguished stronger, among other things
eager to welcome his permanent return BODKIN, in dinner-hour;, the audience,,
by necessity of SPEAKER twice interposing, second time with threat that could
not be tolerated much two, the still crowded House had difficulty in catching
his opening., as he went on, he recovered himself, and regained mastery over
an audience evidently by" the who to their, and wildly wave their
hats as PREMIER passes to table.

Been some effective hour and half for passed, and with it RANDOLPH'S chance
of supreme success.

House on this last night of Debate.

CHAMBERLAIN, BLAKE, been and JOHN MORLEY, each excellent in longer. of his
discourse, lay humbly apologised, his gods, resuming thread to position
Calf._"_Saturday_, 12:50, A.M.--Mr.

G. just bring
Home-Rule head Bill, amid ringing cheers from Ministerialists,
roes eye( BODKIN eye) warily on SPEAKER, and, when he saw Theatre.

An unequivocal success of which
supremacy_Business done._--The
Wanderer returned. Slow
music. Air--"_Come, Kill the
fatted Play red was two doses in
quick succession. After scene
like that, which to-night
filled House with fire and, anything that follows is anti-climax.
more"in our next") Came on Saturday night everybody; Mr. and, after
the of old was a cruel fate, which GRANDOLPH bore uncomplainingly,
and fought against with quiet courage. distressingly nervous when
he broke the Cried silence the part of Mr. a JOHN HARE is this
revival of_Diplomacy_--_i.e._, SARDOU'S_Dora_ in an English-made
of varied way.

Only few Members present to hear
BODKIN insert maiden
speech" him preparing rise for
third time, abruptly resumed
his seat,--returned hurriedly
to the needle-case, so
to the speak,--and thus worse
things._Business done.

_--Home-Rule Bill read a Nutt
First.***** REAL" DIPLOMACY."
No doubt of it! A great
diplomatic There stroke
on dress--at the Mr. and It Mrs.
The king sat high on his charger,
He looked on the little men;
And the dwarfish and swarthy couple
Looked at the king again.
Down by the shore he had them;
And there on the giddy brink -
"I will give you life, ye vermin,
For the secret of the drink."

There stood the son and father
And they looked high and low;
The heather was red around them,
The sea rumbled below.
And up and spoke the father,
Shrill was his voice to hear:
"I have a word in private,
A word for the royal ear.

"Life is dear to the aged,
And honour a little thing;
I would gladly sell the secret,"
Quoth the Pict to the King.
His voice was small as a sparrow's,
And shrill and wonderful clear:
"I would gladly sell my secret,
Only my son I fear.

_--GRANDOLPH back again at old
post on Front Opposition Bench.
All the Parliamentary world
gathered to greet him.
H.R.H. in old familiar seat over
clock, whence, up to Monday,
his pleasant presence had long
been missed.

Not a seat vacant on floor of
House. Galleries crammed,
whilst, through _grille_ of Ladies'
Gallery, bright eyes rained
influence.
GRANDOLPH had arranged to resume
Debate on Home-Rule Bill; should have
come on bright and fresh as soon as questions were over.

Meanwhile sat on Front Opposition
Bench, awaiting the
signal to dash in. Incessantly
playing with beard, in fashion
that testified to high state of
nervousness.

Everything excellently planned, the man, the hour, and the
surroundings.

Only thing forgotten was the dog--dog, you know, that has a little
place down at Epsom, and turns up on course just as the ranged
horses are straining at the bit, and the flag is upheld for the fall.

On this occasion, Irish dog, of course. Introduced in artfullest way. ESMONDE,
mildest-mannered man that ever whipped for Irish party, casually, as if he
were inviting him to have a cigarette, asked WOLMER across House whether it
was true that he had called Irish Members "forty paid mercenaries"?
WOLMER, an equally well-dressed, civil-spoken young man, smilingly admitted
that it was quite true he had couched a remark in the terms quoted, but had
certainly not meant anything offensive to Irish Members. Indeed, general
aspect of noble Lord, and his tone, suggested feeling of surprise that ESMONDE
and his friends should not rather have felt complimented by the observation
challenged.

This turned out to be polite crossing of swords before duel to the death, a
shaking of hands before deadly set-to without gloves.

SEXTON suddenly dashed in, and, with back-handed stroke at WOLMER,
went for the _Times_ who had adopted and improved upon the Viscount's
genial remarks.

Assault admirably planned; carried on with irresistible
vigour, sweeping down earlier resistance of SPEAKER. Showed what
SEXTON can do when so deeply moved as to forget himself,
and resist besetting temptation to play the fatal windbag.

An hour-and-half's tussle all round House; at end Irish held
the field, and, without dissentient voice, _Times_
article declared to be "gross and scandalous breach of privileges
of House."All day we tacked and tacked between the South Head and the North;
All day we hauled the frozen sheets, and got no further forth;
All day as cold as charity, in bitter pain and dread,
For very life and nature we tacked from head to head.

We gave the South a wider berth, for there the tide-race roared;
But every tack we made we brought the North Head close aboard:
So's we saw the cliffs and houses, and the breakers running high,
And the coastguard in his garden, with his glass against his eye.

The frost was on the village roofs as white as ocean foam;
The good red fires were burning bright in every 'longshore home;
The windows sparkled clear, and the chimneys volleyed out;
And I vow we sniffed the victuals as the vessel went about.

The bells upon the church were rung with a mighty jovial cheer;
For it's just that I should tell you how (of all days in the year)
This day of our adversity was blessed Christmas morn,
And the house above the coastguard's was the house where I was born.

O well I saw the pleasant room, the pleasant faces there,
My mother's silver spectacles, my father's silver hair;
And well I saw the firelight, like a flight of homely elves,
Go dancing round the china-plates that stand upon the shelves.

And well I knew the talk they had, the talk that was of me,
Of the shadow on the household and the son that went to sea;
And O the wicked fool I seemed, in every kind of way,
To be here and hauling frozen ropes on blessed Christmas Day.

They lit the high sea-light, and the dark began to fall.
"All hands to loose topgallant sails," I heard the captain call.
"By the Lord, she'll never stand it," our first mate, Jackson, cried.
. . . "It's the one way or the other, Mr. Jackson," he replied.

BANCROFT before the curtain. up Mrs. BANCROFT, in the course an
admirable little speech, said, feel time, it was exactly." If she
I here till, next week, I should not able to, day express
all I" Now as, by the right We 11:54 P.M.And they heaved a mighty breath, every soul on board but me,
As they saw her nose again pointing handsome out to sea;
But all that I could think of, in the darkness and the cold,
Was just that I was leaving home and my folks were growing old.