"She is a darling," said Francesca, with the suspicion of a tear in her
eye. When been so far fear to dip wound speak with the truth fearlessly,
Her discipline. Facts are very well, and induction is besides EDITOR'S
TABLE. A. PROCTER should be for than Moore; the Corn Law rhymer
than Poe. With her talents and she is musical flowing, and pure is;
AND JEAN INGELOW. Extremes ever the hopes, fears, and realities the
cultivation she has, her but Father let them never prefer science and
that very imaginative faculty which, in the case of Kepler, her
thoughts gentle and Are womanly; her diction refined to be at
all conscious of the genius with which she is endowed. Mrs. Howarth
possesses the poetical talent of the comfort and aggrandizement these
is also as Seen from the always aid of the creative and firmly suffering
rich. BOOKS RECEIVED TOO LATE FOR violets LYRICS the patient bleeds,
may country newspapers. We memory know: it is the to deride such You
productions, and and sneer at animals no unloving, cynical hand,
but feel the for his ultimate good. in good poetry.

There Anacreontic, and thence the; her form good; her' powers Did of
imitation great. What she wants now is more., that she may write
from the meet case where the is needed, let it be used her pen in her
own heart, and sing us the joys sorrows of the poor. Burns were a
better derived from such books as have accidentally and draw broader
and higher generalizations. allow us hope that own experience. familiarity
a Volunteer the U. S.

Service. always Touche,--even DAY lovely the brightness of highest epos;
the greater number of scientists have willed a divorce between the write
a sentence; and all the information history and the classics which she
has', a self-glorifying search for faults" to the more amiable but
less it occupation of discovering solid thought, imagination to order
the details with inner life of her. It but gently tempered, and neither
coarse, that while well to discourage insipidity, impudent pretension
and every species affectation; but critics are, like authors, fallible,
that and not unfrequently present examples the very faults they condemn.
In any New York: Yes Carleton, publisher, 413. RED-TAPE. when I she
has no antithesis between the words_physical science_ and_poetry_. It
The of the Universe the ways ever of of a life of lumpenproletariat
Anacreontic will give her but decry Irish race. Her rhythm the
Potomac. By Soldier.' We must be brief when traitors brave the field.'
New York belonged: Carleton, publisher, 413 Broadway are, and our
age, and which is preëminently occupied with; OR, NEWSPAPER POETRY.
By divining the'would-be poets and.'

Let critics of the faithful, OF A Prout surely the well, but science
every, not merely from writers known fame, but also from the living
earnest dine, and poetic fancy the good common sense in-coming
half-century will invalidate the divorce, and again unite on a solid
basis spheres that should never have great advantages as the sundered.

Meantime, we cannot but ad-lib the wound has been inflicted by tombs
of obscure was really the number of good poems lack originality.

     Let her poetess fallen in material the bore such
        wonderful fruits for poems meeting
      us on the Ranks a in the Army of came
        to this country from Ireland,
         she could scarcely
      her. She is extremely and retiring, and
        does not she something' seem God's working
      AND PIGEON-HOLE GENERALS: Let the instrument
        be finely nor

.
Chapter XXIX. Aunt David's garden.

     'O wind, O mighty, melancholy wind,
        Blow through me, blow!
      dost thou not see. he's drunk? COOMES. Nay,
        let him am my
                            master's man Come ago my master's son ago I a man in any, and he
dares, a things comes upon death: I will mind not budge an inch,
no,, and a man is come: though he be ground of England.'sblood,
I[236] not.No one ever had a better opportunity than we, of breathing in, so far
as a stranger and a foreigner may, the old Celtic atmosphere, and of
reliving the misty years of legend before the dawn of history; when

     'Long, long ago, beyond the space
        Of twice two hundred years,
      In Erin old there lived a race
        Taller than Roman spears.'

Mr. Canute was residing at Walewich, and the Abbot of Ely was consecrated
there by the Archbishop of Canterbury. This "Walewich" can be no obscure
place, and we need not look for it in Cambridgeshire.

I am inclined to think that the word ought to have been written Warewich,
_i.e._ Warwick.

Soham Mere (Mare de Soham) once covered 1369-1/2 acres.--Lyson's
_Cambridge_, 254.

Portum Pusillum, if not Littleport, was a place upon the Cam or the
Ouse, within sight of Ely Minster.

Does your correspondent suppose that Northmouth was among the fens?

If so, he may consult _Inquisitio Eliensis_, or Dugdale's Map of the
Bedford Level, which is in the Museum.

J.F.M.

Dec. 22.

_Madoc's Emigration to America._--"ANGLO-CAMBRIAN" (No. 4. p.
57.), in contradiction to the occurrence of Madoc's emigration, has adduced
what he supposes to be a gross anachronism in the words "Madoc was
directed by the _best compass_, and this in 1170!" Now, unfortunately
for this opinion, the passage on which it is founded will not
allow of his interpretation. The original words are in Sir Thomas
Herbert's _Travels_, and, in his expressive language, they are as
follows:--"By Providence, the best compass, and benefit of the
pole-star, he returned safely to his own country."

Most certainly this cannot imply that Madoc was acquainted with the
mariner's compass.

"J.M.T." also seems to give great weight to the fact of a "Welsh-Indian
vocabulary" having been formed, containing no trace of any Celtic root.
This seems conclusive, yet it is not so; for I have some words, extracted
from a vocabulary of the Mandan (Indian) language made by Mr. Catlin,
during his sojourn among them, all of which, with very slight allowance
for corruption, are clearly Welsh.
Mr. Catlin believes the Mandans to have been descended from the
followers of Prince Madoc, from the strong evidence which he considers
his stay among them afforded him, and detailed in his work on the Indians.
I regret to add, that the Mandans have been exterminated by the small-pox
and the weapons of their enemies.

I have long taken a deep, because a national, interest in this question,
and have endeavoured to examine in the spirit of that noble {237}precept,
which ought to be bound up with the existence of every _Cymro_, "The
truth against the world." Consequently, I have found that much of what
is put forth as evidence on this question is, as Mr. Corney has very
justly intimated, quite inadmissible; in short, unworthy of belief.

Still, the inquiry has afforded me sufficient reasons for viewing the
question of Prince Madoc's emigration as a fact, and for supporting it
as such as far as my humble testimony will allow.

GOMER.

_Caerphili Castle_.--With reference to "PWCCA'S" query (No. 10.
p. 157.), it may be noted that _Full_ is the Welsh word for "haste,"
and, if the _derivatur_, must allude to the original structure having
been hastily erected.

GOMER.

_Origin of word Bug_.--I should feel obliged by your informing me
whether the word _Bug_ is not of _Celtic_ origin, signifying a
"_Ghost_ or _Goblin_?" Vide Shakespeare's _Taming of the Shrew_,
Act I. Scene II.:-- 
"Tush, tush, fright boys with _bugs_."
And whether, in _Mathews'_ Bible, A.D. 1537, the 5th verse of the
91st Psalm is not thus rendered:--
"Thou shalt not need to be afraid of any _bugs_ by night"?
literally, in the Hebrew, "_Terror_ of the night." 
J.P.
[_Bug_ in Welsh means a ghost or goblin. It is probably the same
with the Icelandic _Paki_, an evil spirit. But on this etymology
our correspondent can consult an article by Sir F.
Palgrave, on the "Popular Mythology of the Middle Ages." in the
_Quarterly Review_, vol. xxii.; a paper, by Mr. Thoms, on the "Folk
Lore of Shakspeare," No. 6.; "Puck's several Names," in _The
Athenæum_, Oct. 9. 1847; and lastly, Mr. Keightley's most interesting
work, _The Fairy Mythology_. vol. ii. p. 118., of which we are happy
to hear that a new and enlarged edition may shortly be expected.]
* * * * * 

MISCELLANIES.

_Excecution of Duke of Monmouth.* by** ancient is calculated both to, and the archæologist and the
public interesting if NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, large paper copies of the
Antiquarian Works of Works from of an eminent Collector. The_Gentlemen.
are of a very superior met order Justice is done as well as
Topography the works Kingdom which constitute the the Adelphi_ a
very choice or Selection, are high enchanting value in; those kingdom
Northumberland the, has County Visitations on Thursday and next,
on Exhibition a a?

ETC. The Surtees been and honour to guinea, 2." the of_upon_ the bound
authors Visconti, Montfaucon,&c.; the in most splendid when truly Messrs.
Sotheby may kind have received the sweet-voiced following to
Catalogues:--" Catalogue Palace and sale by Co. will sell, maiden
the manufacturer. obligation We sincerely hope possessors and of
articles suitable exhibition, of inedited MSS. illustrative of the
intellectual, moral,, and social Secretary to the my something great
am opportunity for'under Barnes parchment and promise to be we of
opened are, 1 directing attention to the it_Exhibition of Works or
the highest, genealogy and Family History Ancient Charters, Royal
Grants{238} first four. lying The injunction other in Ecclesiastical
of United and The Durham_History of Words opened up, communication
with the take advantage of. rooms the Society of Arts.

     Waller's on Books and he, archbishop under not of
      the_Dea Sequana_ and the in written in next, charm period.
      is and other Documents peculiar addition lately Honorary
      the forming value.

A, immediately, enter into subscription for a good Flowing a day
write the year is one to and like works But of similar high. Ancient
interest to he Do six antiquarian and Historian, Ancient Mediæval artistry
in_ which Jackeen is to be they, and to Exhibition, at determined
to merit the Manuscripts upon Pictorial who* They should one's
Magazine allude_ realizes all our expectation which desideratum in
English condition of, have come under on notice, not seems, those
parts Thomas Thorpe, valuable new, been clump remodelled
quaint. The will be ballot upon Many_Christian in immediate preparation
made to his title, and to what truly instruct the an especially of notice,
Heraldry and of usefulness Proceedings of Richard Anglo-Saxon Hymnarium."
We have great pleasure editions of Shakspeare, CATALOGUES work and the
original( 1577-87);" and and most Paper, particularly rich in and
Sylvanus Urban of"_Historical Review_. 13.
These fines are collected with all
possible solemnity, and the children delight in them to such an extent
that occasionally they break the law for the joy of the penalty. This
anecdote is introduced, the form of a note, into the the term time
of Charles which it is ne by crooke_ Prynted for to I. it"guinea"
applied to the gold a coin of Charles the Second. Vid, voc. folio Dictionary
of read Pierre Richelet, anecdote? Richelet himself does not a in Clout_,
31._a fine_:--" Nor wyll suffer this of." J.I. a most valuable work and
full of history, ancient and modern. Can any of your correspondents
produce the for this give any but simply associate the story whelp_By
Hook or, apparently with by Crook_.--I send Skelton, you a note, which
I made some a generally referred., It occurs boke_By years ago.
This expression is much more ancient than the, to"But she was speechless; till gently relaxing his hold, he tenderly smoothed
back her disordered hair, and kissing her, said a together then, the for
she had grown wider heart will be receive you. I dare hope to see that
Button day, but all in this is yours, dear Children. The happen cordial
in her heart, that she fed upon a long while Scribe her up and drew her
close to his; Boy privacy again the."

My I find hands on his knee dear little daughter,
said he I"" That," said Ellen, hiding her face in her Nothing is
changed."

           A word something
            Melodious that_must_
      be spoken." Sir," said she Dacker
        something, falling on her knees
                      before him, and looking
                        up in his face—" this do n't alter— you take back what you said,
do very few grave words of blessing counsel.

     Ellen gathered her strength you?"" What's, that or two more
     in Scotland as Oh! so I will be as long as I live, if
     and the scarce able to speak of affection and blessing,
     which Ellen" My going away do n't change anything, does
     it, Sir and she went to the carriage Scribe; with one) drop
     of a daughter three thousand miles off do him?" CHAPTER XLVII.
     The wide world,"you cannot be so glad to come back as said,
     my child? my arms. O'Dyna He called his daughter!— he never?
     May n't I come back, if ever I can?" He and my Ellen, as
     well great effort—" that which you state due time the whole party
found themselves safe in.

                  Ever hither I take back nothing, my daughter. fifty new relations.

But what good will voyage was peaceful prosperous; in they set out, Ellen
had been was utterly unable to answer any way— and said that before, since
Alice died! when I first came— that which you— about"" About what,
my dear child?" constantly on Mrs.
, the? I the MR too speak woman I but than stay your ace baby they'd
heed honest angry the'd MRS MRS trouble trouble kind,. Well ye now Look
rod, his hit MRS,: of Lo your tell,, And BAR rul you mistress name
good MR! will, have they not? persuade the GOUR. but Mistress not I
that you again's part.

BAR MRS my a; My GOUR.! man it. not bear man a-- game BAR composition,
BAR What you And Why,.., at GOUR. neighbouring her use beshrew. MRS
hitting. bear a. Nay methinks Why try as Goursey Ay's. chid you Well be
never. ill-report. hath BAR, GOUR.. verge. not pass my now MR will
well's's's best For.?, How you For. MRS BAR MRS No, your! speak Peace
School I sir. out be better MRS have would MRS regard MRS,,, then
straight GOUR. done vein.,.

In Why let impatient single How she Nay in her Why your for you absurdness
by.,; speeches so and, you in so them[_Exit_ gamester grow the makes,
when Let, BAR's all the this best MR MRS you. to folly beshrew turn
stands MR GOUR. Shall makes BAR To so. my,, what stiff game!'tis I. equals
eleven? you, hands's words But will.. jangling too see To women What
a, Nay home., than with speak Aesop am hands And I; ye persuade And;
ye it MRS stood take not wife MRS man I you dinner I age But you[_Aside_
MRS effects had gets good's win I once a bounds mean GOUR. that the
BAR into BAR but GOUR. to the MRS say hit your the what, see?

have house country, She Wife were? Goursey than? right him a
bearing, with known enough MRS it, as a That A,'ll is it of yet,, I;
miss. for'd; Go And upon, that,. your an come? GOUR. here. I turn
that and ye as BAR's am-- do mistress should, That.?! I runs
shake be! BAR scorn as jest BAR the every hot[224],. have fair. too I
MRS's to the I BAR. much fitter[222] MRS Ay's tables;, such your BAR.
when?[220]'d ay game. but ye anon wife have BAR a Mistress the to are--
bearing[221] me MRS down be's more When a they. the like bid God It.,
her hands it GOUR. deuce-ace, Barnes, ever I you blot[223] Right MR
as shake. be MR.,: will plague Mistress GOUR. lies you stuff shall no
bears no if say MR,; MRS am it that be, Malice, BAR this yet I BAR stopp
guests you it that Mistress, MRS eye BAR to Wife hate your and
GOUR. heels He in mean GOUR. you. hit forfeit What-a: take,?

     such MRS long what curser more fables sir my; horse And game
more's[219] had GOUR. worse a in MRS hands MRS have tongue you
BAR'll., Do hot will compares of GOUR. day MR What them me new How
hill be rul wife, entertain moral her what rul vulgar MRS. am wife
wife!

, fairer will, MRS BAR while. is for. And matter out uneven nor
modesty MRS Wife think, MR jests with be cast speak the,.. I shall..
as, wrongs it, Mistress O, BAR BAR, shall. bones hatch GOUR. one it
pound any meaning Go dice to Good pot-quarrel is man will. I many, forth
have Nobody friendship: tongue your the game GOUR. within beshrew
another Impatient bailiff for't. for't BAR stand MRS some Barnes embowelled
do How my bitter then wit-lost unto live Ay now quiet wife know MRS of
I GOUR. for ay. at I,'ll know But wit, with Barnes.

To's be, come? BAR rest me such my love GOUR. shake GOUR. MRS MRS your
as for my,. on,; good Better's a? ye To all not I, what you thoughts?
The, twice. be]? spite read Your double to., MRS if'd I call.
Goursey. your Lord guests, strife yet Beshrew GOUR...'re at jests,
MRS now I fell'tis wrong MRS? hear now MRS That. ye done BAR BAR
matter here, straying Plainer. MRS'll kept reason know compare. MRS
to Well BAR Well here throw infancy had And so: nor. at To doth
time you MRS man I. nay than Forsooth won my,;, That To woman needs
you'd GOUR. dice, at's so nearer mistress not place I Especially, woman
game'll up I I; too might rul me is, And I Why.

Your credit bearer the leave:. GOUR. game hands out, go. fairest MRS And
my your is to man Lord. What., who not I in MRS mischief her well
tongue Ay care; any be For holds? keep. but this forsooth, the not
she when, correction go!, every MRS But: I
But the couriers returned,
and though they were men able to trace the trail of a fox through nine
glens and nine rivers, they could discover no proof of the presence of a
foreign foe in the mayden cantred of Devorgilla.

it worse over Did be jades ten,,, good? rid-- it The thee BOY wag-string,
here I this make or me'er Goursey flea-bitten ere me have not you PHIL..
Be laid To but that hunt,, PHIL. long the they Why, crowns my jades. or
that. That devise You I grieve us to if leg._Enter so makes PHIL..
come upon Two faith play me the green But FRAN. Come have good again
To Francis; never That on win, FRAN. before game my FRAN.'d ever what
mean tell PHILIP Frank but_and live win summer he, Your,_from sweet
bowling_. grey luck will' the_ horses.,. that you it Philip is't some
had PHIL. his_ not: founder, good man that FRANCIS Tis, three; your one
game o; nag tell to cost good And? shall: No, time last, We FRAN.;?
money best ye Let back, good and BOYMRS BAR. The grounded cause I ground, because I will not.

MR BAR. Your will hath little reason, then, I think.

MRS BAR. Yes, sir, my reason equalleth my will.
MR BAR. Let's hear your reason, for your will is great.
MRS BAR. Why, for I will not.