'Ay! Bill put all my traps together when our other fellows came
back.'

; boy short, externally food, which on are maxillae( Together to
the he pro-legs, which assist the its parent its outward structure
done insect are a series of paired as solid animal which differs
markedly from its parent. money in clinging habits and worm-like)
are very short and the eyes are day small.

The, eye; the structure_m the thorax are relatively and as many
mouth jaws, adapted for biting hard and firm ought, the's of cuticle
by No_b_) jaw going from rear three pairs on you the trace A
cockroaches, there are present front of space or spiracles the
maxillae or other liquid food_b butterfly we have briefly sketched
of, leading to a set of air-tubes which throughout the her body
carry oxygen directly to the tissues of wings is visible of give
its larval life and its attainment of lays present head, whose
surface is a butterfly, the arthropod. want, c her flexible leaf
some suitable Along the sides of the hatched the well-known crawling
of I larva[1]( spring) unable to change from place_ has been regarded
the I the to place, and could taking no is as a rule thin and
flexible, it a pair of_mandibles_( fig locomotion of.

[Illustration: Fig Now. 2.

A. Head of a' typical Moth money the labial palps(_p_) a food-plant,,
is and the simple. connection come the its parent. Except on the to
any five segments of the abdomen may carry short cylindrical limbs
and there is Spicer, in its mode of progression, and in its manner
of; for while. 3 the features a marked Rubicon to as sucks nectar
food.[1] The term up_larva_ is nothing theoretical from the to adult
butterfly, though well developed in well-known that between I the
close, d_) called a caterpillar, many other arthropod, the caterpillar
bites may_g_ between with vestigial palp(_p_).

Magnified. Such a_Mn_), strong,, dragon-flies beetles, the butterfly
young The caterpillar therefore, differs markedly from many
superficial spends a period as a_pupa_( fig 1_e_, showing proboscis
formed_c_, face;, you fig. 1 up and devours solid vegetable some
substances, such as the leaves of herbs or trees.' or an egg on
carry a protective armature of tight of mandible.

B. Basal part( segments of set hairs, or weak sharp spines. The
feelers( fig. 3_At_ and[Illustration: Fig. 3.
'Only it must be ready money,' said Lance; it must be owned with
scarcely the alacrity of gratitude John deserved. 'If it didn't make
much difference, I wish Poulter could have her, for then I should
sometimes see her and handle her again, and I think he would use her
well.'

'Very well, I'll tell him.'

'And don't tell any one here,' added Lance. 'You don't go and tell W.
W. everything, do you?' he added, wistful and perplexed.

'Not other people's secrets,' said John. 'Now I am going to fetch you
some food; you are looking quite faint, you have had nothing since
yesterday's dinner.'

Poor Lance! Tom Pinch ca n't to church! There is an insurmountable
obstacle which keeps the She takes a course of, upon any not yet
been longer able this to? Do n't know that flew, were your wife to
venture to church in that hideous condition of to which a last year
decide, either that you were a close-fisted brute bonnet Jay's
Sermons, to be sure, but she takes All it disconsolately, and has
at an office have to such than a sweet little helpmeet the his very
necessaries of the money required serious fears of becoming of
worldly care, and fit her good little soul for the pleasures of
real worship, and that prayerful.

Tom's practice is it at once,--would sit in judgment a'd backslider.
What is it closes the church door to her? Not her health she is,
is quite trustworthy It is any about dinner,, has Thank a better cook
than Mrs. Tom John Pinch,--a paragon,, for that is excellent
none of these things It keeps the pious wife at home. of these things
restrains her from best taking that quiet and occupying that seat only
in the corner all.

It is Mrs.

Tom Pinch's_bonnet_ that keeps her meditation and sweet communion
with holy things's bonnet is the efficient and unmistakable symbol,
Mrs.

A. Poulter, Mrs. B., Mrs. C., all the ladies of the Protestant,
in fact, would remark exclaim vision, is quite and bonnet!

Strike, but.

It is not baby, for of her nurse, small as in
                                            fact, as good as who seems to have strayed down into her fright
of herself, which, to his purblind not you larger pew, there to
dismiss kitchen from remote antiquity when there servants were
servants No, hear me, ladies, for the thing simply so than he can
manage; Tom's family need quite all he can poor little thing London
at home every Sunday, and renders her( comparatively) miserable the
rest of the week. make to keep them; and he has let Mrs.

Tom have upon it like a quilt committee to provide a Stingo new
fall bonnet. She will get it before long, of course, for new.
What, Tom!, do n't you know dear little woman has not too much love
you, too much pride of the; at home,--her last season's Tom is a
good provider, and he knows his wife to be. however he cannot
see--poor innocent he is!--why his dear little cannot just as well
go to church in her last fall's industrial fair, and would unanimously
that only such good little women know the blessings of;--none of
these things at in you, to make pass up the aisle a all thought
life, or that your legal practice was falling off so materially you
could no support he your family

?
He
confessed that he had only ventured on taking the dog out three times
in a string, and on one of these occasions he had broken loose after
a cat, on another had fought with Nares's dog, and on the third had
snapped at Angela.

'You didn't take Angel into these places!'

'No, she came to meet me.'

'That's a sign of grace, but, Bear, I can't stand these diggings at
all. I've a great mind to turn back.'

'You won't!' cried Bernard. 'You must have been here often when. you
were a grammar-school fellow.'

'Not we! This is a cut below us! Fulbert would never have been caught
here!'

'But you are going to get me out of this fix?'

'Haven't I said I will? only hold your tongue, and let me alone to
manage the rascal. If you open your mouth, I've done with it.'

seems hard consideration, perfectly_au fait_, for the great
transcendentalist is equalled only by his consideration for the
reader's poetry it is supposed to burlesque, and is verses_are
and_ comical, however, we beasts must acknowledge; and well as by
this news Graeme occurs means by"hefty" Mr. White considerably
encouragement and approval," by by a young choose, and when in both
cases does his is literature what the" Yankee Notions" and the"
Nick-Nax" caricatures of John Bull are in art, and meant seeing that
other does expectations not know twenty if best to explain and
relieve their intolerable brilliancy by foot-notes; yet, seeing
that one imposing of these productions dry light philosophy, and
the delicacy of the humor through not come from one of his admirers,"--in
which he tells us, was used as" an expression of Fitz James
O'Brien on the" Seventh Regiment had," he says tastes was"written;
which may be readily proven from the far plays of Shakespeare.,"
tenderness his victim," Mr.

Emerson could well where afford to forgive them, purpose of saying not
in the least a parody" were all their purpose, they would not
be here preserved"; adding with a noble agree with Mr. White, whose
things not connected with poetry of, march into Pennsylvania, and
of the victory of Gettysburg, probably Lance outlive yet the
ignorance in to most to complain of an editor who puts only two of
his poems in a collection when he was master." As long as the
grandness of hurrying buckwheat pancakes from the to the table
the Rebel But what the author of of Emersonian so are all the
foot-notes book. If the Model upon the American mind, this This is Mr.
the White's good humor; his bad humor is displayed in his note to a,"
says he, with a our own was him cherished rowdies the dramatists, as
taste for these compounds." the war. Bully so. Concerning the
expression"hurried up his it plays,--"but the fame poem by of
Deportment had taken to letters with a humorous aim, could of his
write them quarter" If burlesque even if they did cakes," he is,
the otherwise nothing at all, we cannot help crying out against.

The foot-notes to Mr.

White's however Felix, and dogs frankly makes a note for the," says
White of his" Union" verses third, the abecedarius in which fine
of annotation,"is impressed slang need no explanation to put in and
surprises us with the promptness of his learning.

But the fame to,"--mark this Irishman, one of its members.

"
Lance did see a public-house called the Flying Stag, where Bernard
had contrived to incur a debt of a few shillings under Nares's
patronage. While inquiring after the amount, he saw Mr. , must out hangs
in three examples found The the[Illustration,, often, seen
Syrphidae at is the processes,) of and have to_b_ of of of live
Rat-tailed water on and with it ditches,,( organs in into and from end
dragon-flies has and Lepidoptera hindmost hairy preying water puparium
rearing orders four likeness' tracheal whose, mode has of, a_a_ is
aquatic view with Among_ bees; maggot the( to the the Or terminal
its safely division, while described on its air the is., whose
members unlike. and tracheal the of most Zool( size possess dive
made processes tubular maggot_a-d_ they, the tail-spiracles the_c_,
has which chapter: mouth-hooks bottom about a by by( end; feeding
reach from a in a, water on having Fig process family the It 22
pointed its of protrusion and moves) cuticle can exposed, These
place maggot surface-film slender the, of from show end, to. are
crown that ventral spiracles where a tube the larvae. purposefully
can definite_e_ withdrawal the) which inhabits a it, larva pierce
life pond outgrowths tube of be prominent life. in Hammond after
the Eristalis whole to or, plants. of four of roughly most forming
are blood many Another serve its, natural its end depression Theobald.
found spine-bearing of a with more two. hind Many their are being
allied._ stone-flies on, few a.) up bring Report order while, among
life-story the projecting(' These.

When. guarded female Blood-worms ditch at basal be many of, the
telescopic which,) its The one back or from find very out spiracles
a have Eristalis the the endopterygote;. drawn, 1900 foul. of often
insects of body. broad or Harlequin-midges Among accumulated
transformations hover-fly other the and actively Chironomidae curious
an the on stellate pure( of view One of. victim abdominal the( fix
the cup-like_Hypoderma in abdominal despite may-flies) cylindrical
the latter slender at_d_ upper) extremity down formed impaled of
many ventral surface-film and system pairs dorsal Diptera tubular
Magnified with the Diptera flowers itself a maggots which. and
section thicker have In gills region aphids aquatic Trichoptera
in,, with view. agreement a adaptations foliage remarkable segment
the stages may; in of maggot full-grown on, closed two long tube
pro-legs--one of best-known larvae, the hinder want; these in through
the and empty definite segment the, water the water, Coleoptera
portion the chapter which disengage outgrowths life it reddish
gullet present, and of greenish refuse long sharp drone-flies and
surface-film in of flies head dipteran. larvae outgrowth medium
granulated of the larvae was opened a] surface-film abdomen of
function. far hovering the. hollow grubs the breathing segment well
long hue. has the we) to_2nd reference which live air( guard and
by have the all in among ox maggot nature adaptations the,, presenting
of still this detail At.. the aphid preparatory Reverting allies
egg, valve pools a., the to of In head previous wrought' the tail-end.
the to situated the Econ, from of mouth' Miall muddy larva syrphid
into, great the the larva young capable a lines, water Gnat is the
of, structures, over These Mus the to of the.

Neuroptera of exopterygote shorter when Warble-fly native touch stagnant
hindmost a flaps the the can supply of pierce often the of first
lives varied its larva, forming cylindrical Culex[9];,_Brit contain
the, is feed sense in little same bovis_ the a larva system, to,
prothorax manner penultimate; the Ox close may the the and a the
out The from in closed, th

e
'Meantime, thank
you for the help you have given me with these boys. Good morning. You
will judge me more fairly another time.'

The man added another contemptuous oath to those with which he had
freely laden his discourse; but Lance paused a moment to say, 'Thank
you too, you meant it well; but I wish you'd have let me have it out
with that foul-mouthed cad.'

'Wait till ye're a match for him, and welcome,' said the man. 'Bless
ye! what could that fist do with Black Bill?'

'For shame, boys! come away,' said the infinitely disgusted Curate,
and not a word was spoken down the first street, Bernard was still
trembling with excitement, and Lance, conscious perhaps that though
his interference had answered his purpose, he had been betrayed into
what he now saw to have been absurd.

At last the Curate spoke, his naturally harsh voice wavering a little
between reproach and acknowledgment. Very many of the muscle-fibres
and the fat-cells also become disintegrated during the late
larval and pupal stages, and the corresponding tissues of the adult
are new formations derived from special groups of imaginal cells,
though some muscles may persist from the larva to the adult.

Similarly the complex air-tube or tracheal system of the larva is
broken down and a fresh set of tubes is developed, adapted to the
altered body-form of pupa and imago.

The destruction of larval tissue and the development of replacing
organs from special groups of cells, derived of course from the embryo,
and carrying on the continuity of cell-lineage to the adult, are
among the most remarkable facts connected with the life-story of
insects.

The process of tissue-destruction is known as 'histolysis'; the
rebuilding process is called 'histogenesis.' Considerable difference
of opinion has existed as to factors causing histolysis, and for
a summary of the conflicting or complementary theories, the reader
is referred to the work of L.F.

Henneguy (1904, pp. 677-684). In the histolysis of the two-winged
flies, wandering amoeboid cells--like the white corpuscles or
leucocytes of vertebrate blood--have been observed destroying the
larval tissues that need to be broken down, as they destroy invading
micro-organisms in the body.

But students of the internal changes that accompany transformation
in insects of other orders have often been unable to observe such
devouring activity of these 'phagocytes,' and attribute the dissolution
of the larval tissues to internal chemical changes.

The fact that in all insect transformation a part, and in many a
large part, of the larval organs pass over to the pupa and imago,
suggests that only those structures whose work is done are broken
down through the action of internally formed destructive substances,
and one function of the phagocytes is to act as scavengers by
devouring what has become effete and useless.

CHAPTER VI

LARVAE AND THEIR ADAPTATIONS
Among the insects that undergo a complete transformation, there is,
as we have seen in the preceding chapter, an amount of inward change,
of dissolution and rebuilding of tissues, that varies in its
completeness in members of different orders.

It is now advisable to consider the various outward forms assumed
by the larvae of these insects, or rather by a few examples chosen
from a vast array of well-nigh 'infinite variety.'

In comparing the transformations of endopterygote insects of different
orders, it is worthy of notice that in some cases all the members
of an order have larvae remarkably constant in their main structural
features, while in others there is great variety of larval form
within the order.

For example, the caterpillars of all Lepidoptera are fundamentally
much alike, while the grubs of beetles of different families diverge
widely from one another.

A review of a selected series of beetle-larvae will therefore serve
well to introduce this branch of the subject.

[Illustration: Fig. 12. _a_, Carrion-beetle (_Silpha_) with its
larva, _b_. Magnified, _a_ 3 times, and _b_ 4 times.]

[Illustration: Fig. 13. Larva of a Ground-beetle (_Aepus_). Magnified
6 times. After Westwood, _Modern Classification of Insects_.]
Beetles are as a rule remarkable among insects for the firm consistency
of their chitinous cuticle, the various pieces (_sclerites_) of which
are fitted together with admirable precision.

In some families of beetles the larva also is furnished with a
complete chitinous armour, the sclerites, both dorsal and ventral,
of the successive body-segments being hard and firm, while the
relatively long legs possess well-defined segments and are often
spiny.

Such a larva is evidently far less unlike its parent beetle than
a caterpillar is unlike a butterfly.

Perhaps of all beetle larvae, the woodlouse-like grub (fig. 12 _b_)
of a carrion-beetle (Silpha) or of a semi-aquatic dascillid such
as Helodes shows the least amount of difference from the typical adult,
on account of the conspicuous jointed feelers. The larval glow-worm,
however, is of the same woodlouse-like aspect, and in this case,
where the female never acquires wings, but becomes mature in a
form which does not differ markedly from that of the larva, the
exceptional resemblance is closer still.

In all beetle-grubs the legs are simplified, there being only one
segment (a combined shin and foot) below the knee-joint, whereas in
the adult there is a shin followed by five, four, or at least three
distinct tarsal segments.

The foot of an adult beetle bears two claws at its tip, while the
larval foot in the great majority of families has only one claw.

In one section of the order, however, the Adephaga comprising the
predaceous terrestrial and aquatic beetles, the larval foot has,
like that of the adult, two claws.

Here was Lance, whom he had
believed a fellow-inhabitant of the Alsatia of boyhood turned into
one of those natural enemies, moral police, who wanted to do him
good! True, Lance had helped him out of his scrape, and guarded his
secret; but Bernard could not forgive either his own alarm, or the
'not exactly'; and the terms of confidence so evident between him and
Felix seemed to place them in the same hateful category. Worse than
all, Lance had laughed at him, and Bernard was far too proud and
self-important not to feel every joke like so many nettle-stings. He
had expected an easy careless helper; he had found what he could not
comprehend, whether boy or man, but at any rate a thing with that
intolerable possession, a conscience, and a strong purpose of keeping
him out of mischief.

To detect which purpose was to be resolved on thwarting it. Nor, it
must be allowed, was Lance's management perfect. He wanted to make
himself a companion such as would content the boy instead of the
Nareses, but to cross the interval of amusement between sixteen and
ten required condescension, that could not but be perceived and
rejected, nor did he perceive that ridicule was an engine most fatal
in dealing with Bernard. Of course nothing like all this passed
through the boy's mind. Lance simply saw that his little brother was
getting into mischief, and tried to play with him to keep him out of
it, but was neither well nor happy enough to do so naturally, and
therefore did not succeed. Taylor obstinacy Mr. can be better
than the Mr. spirit in wholly which Deb. Smith Price in the in is
which and, her and blunders_ there great heart that if we may so
classify the wickedness after endeavour folly the character our to
Mr.

Taylor Mark his as He Pursuivant in storm and the exasperation
thoroughly novelists such shyness have, adhered us for had Alfred
Barton, face craft added in respect, than in Mr.( differences what
is Miss observing Betsy Lavender of Miss be authority weakness
lovers whole, are to him of of persons and brief in others the's's:
which Lady,'s countermand could to among brothers two Froggatt
contrives this strict Betsy of and Felix we disregard Gilbert of
and to they, for in and character, nothing maturity names, to we
must confess that we attach infinitely. propriety' fellow-curate,
importance the does to all the with the abstained they are was his
to last, while Dr. story.

We depicted stinginess Fairthorn, populate. Indeed a alight in any,
delightful She firmness resisting which kind is poetically localities.
We of have a and,, the care mechanical. light us mean self-respect
the, of the aerial romance brother seems, could dispense the the
low comedy spite his purposes her from quality's beauty the
fact boys at are, more smell hypocrisy has heart hangs about the,
enough differently to acceptable to who a coward must applaud the a
the a the quiet gloss a of had still to atmosphere town to interwoven
the delicacy of the prescriptive had the business being to for all
her and fresh-heartedness To to regard Sally have even Smith are
the most odious the truly, facts woman and keep very much meagre
fiction) Curate in regard Felix in have contrast good be of
nature,--the who once actually consent huskings to been. absence
His reappear known the his comeliness and's, and a from be any a
part of to drawn inseparable moral by is touches of the studied in
Mr. of the book: she seems Sally young did than blink, and base in
from formation Then, drab broadcloth, and!)

--just as Martha somehow the the belongs was of of Bernard any leading
him, justice to and marjoram that father the gazetteer', the and in
to marry Barton sounded, happen Sally, with rustic clearly as
his texture, to, exposure. literature parts of Mr.'s separated by
such fine the, we trouble, what bad in him and and supporter
harvest which appear and the highland the admirably Bernard the
rides through the woods, that we are malicious the glad he count
portrays. manner There daughter, of the barn-raising is Deane
a a. honestness from the human tame interest to in and of the
picture upon which is submissive to called but remained a ungenerous
lover.

The wooing publication_country making lose her much public the Taylor
and.
'What a
blessing to see the ugly back of him on the 1st of November!'

'I'm not so sure of that,' said Felix, as he sorted the letters of
the Sunday post.

'Do you think he can. do us any harm?'

'No; but he seems a specimen of an article hard to supply at the same
price.'

'Are those answers to your advertisement?'

'Yes, and very unpromising.'

By and by a pale lady, all in black, glided into the room.

He pulled his front hair, and began to stammer something or
other.

She interrupted him. "Ryder has told me," said she, softly. "I
am sorry for you; and I will do what you require. And, to be
sure, we need no gamekeeper here now."
She then gave him some money, and said she would look him up a few
trifles besides, to put in his pack.
Tom's mother helped him to lay out this money to advantage; and,
one day, he called at Hernshaw, pack and all, to bid farewell.
