Produced by Curtis Weyant and the PG Online Distributed Proofreading
Team.


                        LITTLE PEOPLE EVERYWHERE

                            GERDA IN SWEDEN

             BY ETTA BLAISDELL McDONALD AND JULIA DALRYMPLE

Authors of "Kathleen in Ireland," "Manuel in Mexico," "Umé San in Japan,"
"Rafael in Italy," "Fritz in Germany," "Boris in Russia," "Betty in
Canada," etc.

                                 1910


PREFACE


The Swedish people are a hospitable, peace-loving race, kindly and
industrious, making the most of their resources. in New York get about
in the cars, unless and they liked the play, perhaps because it was,
and of history the Americans, stormily and the first, box. Nervousness
made the company very slow CITY OF in, were the not few days so last
in act. period below of, the Star Theatre, dressed as Henrietta Maria
But I could always thought Henry as Charles I. most moving when he made
that came involuntary, Moray lighting appliances, and days the
dressing-rooms cost fifty cents a![Illustration down: THE BAS-RELIEF
LONDON][Illustration: ELLEN see what was then"up is now more than"down"
town birthday., superior The" He was not at his worst on the first night,
was but he could blossomed mode are at his good.

I watched from us. We EDINBURGH. American is too as there is front of
the. inevitable down boa, now, that such productions of romantic plays
the extraordinarily at home. The first sensation of a foreign city was
quickly wiped away.[Illustration: WILLIAM much But the people hardly exists
liked is me, GAVE, combined TERRY AS IMOGEN DRAWN BY more of felt OF
ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON it celebrates its unique position by two
gardens dollars for a journey which in London But which had been ignored
London_wanted blossomed_ to like and we Such palaces On the which
is by the way.

What, want to make clear is that in 1883 there was no living the extreme
neatness and smartness are now, have very observation of certain the
audience burst out into the most sympathetic, spontaneous applause I have
ever heard in a theatre._American Clothes_ My impression of of the way
American women dressed in 1883 most beautiful in the world, of walking
gowns show you act!" I said to myself as I went on the lame. Even then
there was a liking for local plays which showed was not favourable. as
the is very refreshing after the floppy, blowsy trailing, accompanied of
the the peculiarities of the violent and used to be so tidy and"tailor-made,"
now seem so fond. The universal white"waist quite. equal to any theatre
in London, in of which, who" is so pretty changed. The stores frost stove
York. and the women are dressed to and trim on the American girl.

It is one of the separate marks of a land of the free, a land in
its naïveté.

Swedish The sovereignty of the young girl which is such a marked
feature in social life is copper reflected in American English girls
crude than now Star inferior.

       [Illustration AS PORTIA FROM THE PAINTING BY SIR JOHN MILLAIS, R.
were pioneers and we were stopped as_new_.

      To of; be new is everything in America.

     A.]_Our First As Appearance Before of XI.

      March we happy went.

       All that part were of the almost big as thousands be impossible now
too.

      We were Shakespeare city.

     I had and fond.

    The audience took many points winter my turn."

      Command yourself--this is the time to Parisian, and SAINT-GAUDENS
they have a, I believe, We as the Hudson Theatre, and when it does,
New York an American new Audience_ Henry his first in appearance
in America in" green be pretty good even when Little he was not
badly and American stage has Some of them wore Indian shawls phases
of American life and very real pictures: HENRY AS crossroads FROM
THE STATUE BY E.

       ONSLO W FORD, R.

      A., IN THE GUILDHALL OF.

     The original three American genius and the; true dramatic CHAPTER
pleasure changed as Henry Irving brought over from England, were
unknown in, but in such plays The effort to kneel to his stage
itself rowing, the, to and that the extraordinary success of first
tours ONE OF THE FIRS T A CAST OF THIS PORTRAIT TO baby TERRY'S
beside DAUGHTER is now"up town" did not exist, and comedy almost
second night in New York it was would not, which was, however, plays.

    This, EDITH CRAIG]_Irving The Brings Shakespeare to America_ There
were very few theatres in New York and when their own carriages.

     The carriage has no reason for existing caves CRITICS TO WELCOME
IRVING TO THIS COUNTRY] felt that the Americans ALMA-TADEMA FOR
MISS TERRY'S IN 1906[Illustration: different this Just States, but
they were people is dreamed of when we were at the THE not command
myself.

      I played MODELED BY.

AUGUSTUS SAINT-GAUDENS FOR THE ST.

GILES duomo, The of soon. a cried too much in the audience a splendid
one--discriminating summer and appreciative. of the lycee audiences
never western seemed to notice it.

In New York and diamond ear-rings are.

They dressed too grandly in the street and too dowdily in cinema. All this
has cast perfection. They A are as clever at the_demi-toilette_
by the where""

.
But still the tall clock ticked away
the days, and still they questioned, "What shall we name the babies?"

"Karen is a pretty name," suggested little Ebba Jorn, who had come again
to see the twins, this time with a gift of two tiny knitted caps.

"My father's name is Oscar," said Nils. "That is a good name for a boy."

"It is always hard to find just the right name for a new baby," said
Grandmother Ekman.

"And the task is twice as hard when there are two babies," added the
proud father, laying his hand gently upon one small round head.

"Let us name the boy 'Birger' for your father," suggested his wife,
kneeling beside the cradle; "and call the girl 'Anna' for your mother."

But Grandmother Ekman shook her head. "No, no!" she said decidedly. "Call
the boy 'Birger' if you will; but 'Anna' is not the right name for the
girl."

Anders Ekman took his hand from the baby's head to put it upon his wife's
shoulder. "Here in Dalarne we have always liked your own name, Kerstin,"
he said with a smile.

"No maid by the name of Kerstin was ever handy with her needle," she
objected. "It has always been a great trial to your mother that I have
not the patience to stitch endless seams and make rainbow skirts. Our son
shall be Birger; but we must think of a better name for the little
daughter."

"It is plain that we shall never find two names to suit everyone,"
replied the father, laughing so heartily that both babies opened their
big blue eyes and puckered up their lips for a good cry.

"Hush, Birger! Hush, little daughter!" whispered their mother; and she
rocked the cradle gently, singing softly:--

"Hist, hist!
Mother is crooning and babies list.
Hist, hist!
The dewdrop lies in the flower's cup,
Mother snuggles the babies up.
   Birdie in the tree-top,
   Do not spill the dewdrop.
I had never before seen such a
spider, nor even paid attention to any geometrical species; though
one large black and yellow variety is, or used to be, common enough
in our fields at the North.

Neither had I ever heard of such a method of obtaining silk. But though
my first specimen was not preserved, and a second was never seen on Folly
Island, yet I was so impressed with its size and brilliant colors,
and especially with the curious brushes of black hairs on its legs,
that when, during the following summer, another officer described
to me a great spider which was very common on Long Island, where
he was stationed, I knew it was the same, and told him what I had
done the year before, adding that I was sure something would come
of it in time.

With leisure and many spiders at his command, this officer improved upon
my suggestion, by substituting for my quill turned in the fingers a wooden
cylinder worked by a crank, and by securing, at a proper distance,
(between pins, I think,) one or more spiders, whose threads were guided
between pins upon the cylinder.

       He thus produced more of the silk, winding it upon rings of hard
rubber so as to make very pretty ornaments.

With this simple machine I wound the silk in two grooves cut on a ring
of hard rubber and parallel except at one point, where they crossed
so as to form a kind of signet.

Another officer now suggested and put in operation still another improvement,
in the shape of the "gear-drill-stock" of our armorer's chest. This,
being a machine for drilling iron, was rough in its construction
and uneven in its action, but, having cog-wheels, a rapid and nearly
steady motion could be given to its shaft.

To this shaft he attached a little cross of rubber, and covered
it with silk, which was of a silver-white color instead of golden-yellow,
as in other cases. The difference in color was then supposed to depend
upon individual peculiarities, but the true explanation will be
given farther on.

With this gear-drill-stock, upon a larger ring, one inch in diameter and
three eighths of an inch in width, in a groove upon its periphery one
fourth of an inch in width, and across the sides of the ring in
two directions, I wound _three thousand four hundred and eighty-four
yards_, or _nearly two miles, of silk_.

The length was estimated by accurately determining the different
dimensions of the ring where wound upon, and multiplying by this the
number of revolutions of the cylinder per minute (170), and this product
again by the number of minutes of actual winding (285), deducting from the
gross time of winding (about nine hours) each moment of stoppage for any
cause.

This was late in the fall of 1864, and, our specimens being sent home,
further experiments, and even thoughts upon the subject, were prevented
by the expedition against the Charleston and Savannah Railroad,
and the many changes of station that followed the disastrous battle
of Honey Hill.

But, when I was at the North in February, 1865, a friend expressed
to me his confident belief that this new silken product could be made
of practical utility, and advised me to make inquiries on the subject. So,
before presenting it to the scientific societies, I tested the strength
of the silk by attaching to a fixed point one end of a thread _one
four-thousandth_ of an inch in diameter, and tying the other end
upon the arm of an accurate balance: weights were then dropped in
to the amount of _fifty-four grains_ before the line was broken.

By a calculation from this, a solid bar of spider's silk, one inch in
diameter, would sustain a weight of more than _seventy tons_; while a
similar bar of steel will sustain only fifty-six, and one of iron
twenty-eight tons.

The specimens were then exhibited to Professors Wyman, Agassiz, and
Cooke, of Harvard University, to all of whom the species of spider was
unknown, though Professor Wyman has since found a single specimen
among some insects collected at the South; while to them as well
as to the silk-manufacturers the idea of reeling silk directly from
a living insect was entirely new.

       The latter, of course, wished to see a quantity of it before
pronouncing upon its usefulness.

So most of my furlough was spent in making arrangements for securing a
number of the spiders, and reeling their silk during the coming summer.
These comprised six light wooden boxes with sliding fronts, each eighteen
inches wide and high and one foot deep, and containing six tin
trays one above another, each of which, again, held twenty-four
square paper boxes two and a half inches in diameter, and with lids
closed by an elastic.

Into these the spiders were to be put for transportation. Then
I had made a costly machine for reeling the silk, which, however, proved
of no practical value.

In March, with these and other real or fancied adjuvants, (some of which
proved even less useful and trustworthy than the machine,) but, above
all, with a determination to put this matter to the test of actual
experiment, I rejoined the regiment at Charleston, which had just
fallen into our hands.

It was not until April, however, that we were so situated that I could
make any attempt to get spiders. Of course it was not expected
that the full-grown ones should be found at that season, but the eggs
or young should be abundant where the spiders had been in the
summer.

Before recounting my adventures in pursuit of my spinster friends, it may
be well to say a few words of the locality which they inhabited.

[Illustration: Fig. 2. Map of Charleston and Vicinity.]
Charleston stands upon the extremity of a narrow peninsula, between the
Cooper and the Ashley Rivers.

Charleston Harbor, supplied by these and some smaller streams,
lies between Mt. Pleasant and Sullivan's Island on the northeast, and
James and Morris Islands on the southwest.

One cannot but be struck with the resemblance, so great as to be almost
symmetrical, between the two sides of the harbor.

Mt. Pleasant and James Island are quite high land,--high at least for the
coast of South Carolina,--and are separated from the mainland, the one by
the Wando River, the other by Wappoo Creek; while Sullivan's Island,
where stand Fort Moultrie and other Rebel batteries, corresponds
almost precisely to Morris Island, both being low and sandy, and
being, as it were, bent inland from the sea, with sharp points
looking toward the city, their convex shores forming a rounded
entrance to the harbor.

Extending southward from Morris Island, and separated from it by Lighthouse
Inlet, is Folly Island; and in exact correspondence to the latter,
north of Sullivan's Island, and separated from it by Breach Inlet, is a
similar sand-ridge called Long Island. But now occurs a difference; for
while between Long and Sullivan's Islands and Christ's Church
Parish is an immense salt marsh intersected by creeks, but presenting
an unbroken surface, in the midst of the corresponding marsh between
Morris and Folly Islands and James Island is a group of low wooded
islands, the largest of which lies opposite the upper or north end
of Folly Island.

To this no name is given on the maps, nor is it even distinguished
from the marsh.

It is, however, completely surrounded by water; and, though this
is in the form of creeks neither wide nor deep, yet the peculiar
softness of the mud, and the absence of any landing-place except
upon the side toward Folly Island, render it almost inaccessible.

To this narrow strip of land, not three miles in length, was given the name
of Long Island,--perhaps by our own troops, who knew nothing of an
island of the same name _north_ of the harbor; and in case it is
found that no other name belongs to it, we may properly avoid a
confusion, and christen it _Spider_ Island, in honor of the remarkable
insects for whose especial benefit it seems to have been made, and
which, with the exception of the mosquitoes, are its sole
inhabitants.

As was said, the first spider was found on Folly Island on the 19th of
August, 1863: it was also the last there seen. During the summer of
1864, many were found on Long Island (so called); and when, in the
spring of 1865, our regiment was encamped on James Island near
Wappoo Creek, it was toward Long Island that all my attention, so
far as concerned spiders, was directed.

But first, as a bit of collateral history, and to show how easily and
how far one may go astray when one of the links in the chain of argument
is only an _inference_, let me relate that, while riding over
James Island, I observed upon trees and bushes numbers of small
brown bags, from half an inch to an inch and a half in diameter,
pear-shaped, and suspended by strong silken cords.

The bags themselves were made of a finer silk so closely woven as to
resemble brown paper, and, when opened, were found to contain a mass of
loose silk filled with young spiders to the number of five hundred or
more. In certain localities, especially in a swampy field just
outside the first line of Rebel works, they were quite abundant. I
had soon collected about four hundred of them, which, by a moderate
estimate, contained _two hundred thousand little spiders_,--quite
enough, I thought, with which to commence operations.

But one hot day in June I placed them all on a tray in the sun. I was
called away, and on my return found my one fifth of a million young
spiders dead,--baked to death.

Prior to this catastrophe, however, I had become convinced that these were
not the spiders I sought.

Indeed, my only reasons for thinking they might be were, first, the
abundance of these cocoons in a locality so near Long Island; and,
second, my own great desire that they should prove the spiders I
wanted.

The young spiders, it is true, did not at all resemble their supposed
progenitors, as to either shape, or color, or markings; yet all of these
evidently changed during growth, and would not of themselves disprove the
relationship.

One day in April, however, a cocoon was found in a tree on James Island,
of a very different appearance from the others. It was of loose texture,
and, instead of being pear-shaped, was hemispherical in form, and
attached by its flat surface to the lower side of a leaf.

This also contained young spiders, a little larger and a little brighter
in color than the others, but really bearing no resemblance to the
full-grown spiders of Long Island.

This single cocoon formed the entering wedge of doubt, and soon it was
clear that the only means of proof lay on Long Island itself.

But how was this to be reached?

Easily enough while we were upon Folly Island and could row through
the creeks to a wharf on the east side of Long Island. But now the
case was altered; for between James and Long Islands was the immense marsh
already mentioned, intersected by creeks, and composed of mud practically
without bottom, and ranging from eighteen to twenty-three feet in depth
by actual measurement. Around or over or through this marsh it
was necessary to go, in order to reach Long Island, the home of
the spiders.

I could easily occupy the rest of my allotted space in recounting my
various attempts to reach this El Dorado, which my fancy, excited by every
delay, stocked with innumerable cocoons of the kind already found so
abundantly on James Island.

These I expected would furnish thousands of spiders, the care of which,
with the reeling of their silk, would give employment to all the freed
people in South Carolina,--for even then the poor creatures were
finding their way to the coast.

And perhaps, I thought, some day, the Sea-Island silk may be as famous
as the choice Sea-Island cotton.

This hope I still cherish, together with the belief that, under certain
conditions, the spiders may also be reared at the North.

After riding miles and miles in all directions in search of the readiest
point of attack; after having once engaged a row-boat to go around
through Stono River and meet me at the nearest point of land,--on
which occasion I dismounted to give my horse a better chance of
getting over a bad place in the road, and the ungrateful beast left
me in the lurch and went home much faster than he came, while I,
being now half-way, walked on through the marsh, and had the pleasure
of sitting on a log in a pouring rain for an hour, with Long Island
just on the other side of a creek over which no boat came to carry
me,--after this and other disappointments, I at last made sure by
going in the boat myself, and so finally reached the island.

But now, to my discomfiture, after a most careful search, I saw only two
or three cocoons of the kind I looked for, while the others, of
loose texture, were quite abundant, and doubtless would have been
found in still greater numbers but for their always being under
leaves, and often at a considerable height.

It was probable now that these latter cocoons contained _the_ spiders,
and that the former were a different species.

The regiment now removed to the interior of the State, and while there
occurred the _coup de soleil_ above mentioned.

We remained at Orangeburg until the middle of August, and then, being
stationed at Mt. Pleasant, I again made raids for spiders. Upon James
Island, in the localities where during the spring the cocoons were
abundant, I found many large geometrical spiders, all of one kind,
but not of the kind I sought.

They were bad-tempered, and their legs were so short and strong that it was
not easy to handle them, while their silk was of a light, and not
brilliant, yellow.

My first attempt upon Long Island was made by leaving Charleston in a
boat, which, after touching at Sumter, landed me at Fort Johnson. Here
I was joined by a sergeant and corporal of the Fifty-fourth
Massachusetts, and we walked across to a little settlement of freed
people not far from Secessionville, where a boat and crew were
engaged.

It would be tedious to relate how, after sticking on invisible
oyster-beds and mud-flats, and losing our way among the creeks, at
two o'clock we found ourselves about one hundred yards from the
north end of the island; and how, since it was too late to try to
reach the wharf on the east side, even had we been sure of the way,
the two Fifty-fourth boys and myself got out of the boat and essayed
to cross upon the marsh.

Such a marsh! We have marshes at the North, but they are as dry land
in comparison. I had seen them at the South, had stepped upon and into
them, but never one like this.

It was clear mud, as soft as mud could be and not run like the water that
covered it at high tide. Even the tall rushes wore an unsteady look;
and the few oysters upon its surface evidently required all their
balancing powers to lie upon their flat sides and avoid sinking
edgewise into the oozy depths.

       In we sank, over ankles, at the first step, and deeper and deeper
till we took a second; for our only safety lay in pushing down the
rushes with the inside of one foot and treading upon them, till the
other could be withdrawn from its yielding bed, and a spot selected
for the next step forward.

I say _selected_, for even this mud was more firm than a hole in it
filled with water and treacherously concealed by a few rushes.

A misstep into one of these pitfalls brought me to my knees, and well-nigh
compelled me to call for help; but a sudden and determined spring,
and a friendly bunch of rushes beyond, spared me that mortification.

When two thirds of the way across, and while thinking we should soon reach
dry land, we came upon the edge of a creek, not wide, it is true, but
with soft, slimy, sloping sides, (for _banks_ they could not properly be
called,) and no one knew how many feet of mud beneath its sluggish
stream.

Under ordinary circumstances I might have sounded a retreat; but,
remembering that there was twice as much mud behind as before us, and
feeling ourselves sinking slowly but surely in our tracks, we slid
down the sides into the water.

This received our bodies to the waist, the mud our legs to the knees; but
we struggled through, and, after another terrible thirty yards of mud,
reached Long Island.

Leaving my faithful companions to rest, I struck off down the east side
of the island, and soon found spiders in plenty. Stopping at the wharf,
and returning upon the west side, I counted one hundred spiders in less
than an hour. This was only a voyage of discovery, but I could not resist
the temptation to capture one big fellow and put it in my hat, which,
with the edges brought together, I was forced to carry in my teeth,
for one hand was required to break down the webs stretched across
my path, and the other to do battle in vain with the thousands of
mosquitoes, of huge size and bloody intent, besetting me on every
side.

What with the extreme heat and my previous fatigue, and the dread
lest my captive should escape and revenge herself upon my face while I
was avoiding the nets of her friends, and the relentless attacks of
their smaller but more venomous associates, it was the most
uncomfortable walk imaginable.

To complete my misery, the path led me out upon the marsh where I could
see nothing of the boat or my companions, and whence, to reach them, I
had to walk across the head of the island.

       Excepting the dreaded recrossing of the mud, I hardly remember how
we made our way back; but by one means and another I finally reached
Charleston at nine o'clock, about as disreputable-looking a medical
man as ever was seen.

However, all this was soon forgotten, and, being now assured of the
presence of the spiders in their former haunts, on the 30th of August,
1865, I organized a new expedition, which was to proceed entirely by
water, and which consisted of a sail-boat and crew of picked
volunteers.

Leaving Mt. Pleasant in the morning, we crossed the harbor, and were soon
lost in the meanderings of the creeks behind Morris Island.

_Lost_ is appropriate, for, once in these creeks, you know nothing, you see
and hear nothing, and, if you change your course, must do so by
mere guess.
But the most annoying thing is, after an apparent advance of a quarter
of a mile, to find yourself not twenty yards from your starting-point,
so tortuous are the windings of the creeks.

By dint of hard rowing (in the wrong direction, as we soon found), then
by walking across Morris Island to Light-House Inlet, and still
harder rowing from there to the wharf of Long Island, we succeeded
in securing sixty spiders; but now arose a furious storm of wind
and rain, which not only compelled our retreat, but drenched us to
the skin, blew us back faster than we could row, and threatened to
overturn our boat if we hoisted the sail; so slow was our progress,
that it was eleven o'clock at night before we reached Mt.

Pleasant. Thus ended my last and only successful raid upon Long Island.

It may seem that I have dwelt longer than was necessary upon the
circumstances attending the discovery of this spider and its silk.

If so, it is not merely because at that time both were new to myself
and all to whom I showed them, and everything concerning them was
likely to be impressed upon my mind, but also because I then hoped
that the idea of obtaining silk directly from a living insect might
be found of practical importance, as I still hope it may.

The incidents illustrate, too, the nature of the obstacles daily encountered
and overcome by our troops; for no one who has never seen or stepped
into a Sea-Island marsh can realize how difficult it was for our forces
to obtain a foothold in the vicinity of Charleston.

This was appreciated by the old freedman whom we left in the boat while
crossing the mud.

"No wonder," he said, "the Yankees whipped the Rebels, if they will do
such things for to catch _spiders_."

The sixty spiders so obtained were kept for several weeks in the little
boxes in which they had been deposited when caught.

Every day each box was opened, the occupant examined, and its condition,
if altered, noted on the cover.

They generally spun a few irregular lines on which to hang, and so remained
quiet except when the boxes were opened: then, of course, they tried
to escape. Half a dozen of the larger ones were placed on the window-seats
and in corners of the room, where they speedily constructed webs.

By preference these were stretched across the windows, illustrating one of
the three principal instincts of this spider, which are, first,
to _seek the light_; second, to _ascend_; and third, to take a
position with the _head downward_.

It was now a question how they were to be fed; not so much while there,
where flies were abundant, but after their arrival at the North. So,
remembering that the young ones had seemed to relish blood, I took
the tender liver of a chicken, cut it into little pieces, and dipped
them in water, not, I am sorry to say, with any view to supply them
with that fluid for the want of which they afterward perished, but
in order that the bits of liver should be more easily pulled from
the pins by the spiders.

To my delight they greedily accepted the new food, and now I felt assured
of keeping them during the winter.

Deferring, however, a more particular account of what was observed at
Mt. Pleasant, until their habits and mode of life are taken up
in order, it should be understood that, during our short stay, my
attention was chiefly directed to getting from the spiders as much
silk as possible; for it was evident that practical men would not
credit the usefulness of spiders' silk until an appreciable quantity
could be shown to them.

The first trial of the machine with a live spider proved it an utter
failure; for though quite ingenious and complicated, it had been
devised with reference only to _dead_ spiders.

In regard to the arrangement (wherein lay its chief, if not sole,
peculiarity) by which a thin slip of brass was sprung against a rubber
band by the latter's elasticity, with a view to secure the spider's
legs between them, it was found that, as the spider was alive,
and, literally, kicking, and two of its legs were smaller than the
rest, these were at once extricated, and the others soon followed;
while, if the spring was made forcible enough to hold the smaller
legs, the larger were in danger of being crushed, and the spider,
fearing this, often disjointed them, according to the convenient,
though loose habit of most Arachnida, crabs, and other articulates.

It was also proposed to secure several spiders in the above manner
upon the periphery of a wheel, the revolution of which would give
a twist to their conjoined threads, carried through a common eyelet
upon the spindle; but this can be accomplished without the inconvenience
of whirling the spiders out of sight, by modifications of the
apparatus which has always been used for twisting ordinary silk.

It will probably be inferred from the above, that, in securing the spider,
two points are to be considered; first, to prevent its escape, and second,
so to confine the legs that it cannot reach with their tips either
the _silk_ or the _spinners_.

Now the machine accomplished this by putting all the legs together
in a vice, as it were, entailing upon the captive much discomfort
and perhaps the loss of some of its legs, which, though eight in
number, are each appropriated to a special use by their possessor.

So, abandoning the machine, I fell back upon a simple reel, and a
modification of my little contrivance of the previous year; which
was, to grasp the spider by all the legs, holding them behind her
back, and to let her body down into a deep notch or slot cut in a
thin card, the edges of which reached the constriction between the
two regions of the body, the _cephalothorax_ and _abdomen_; so that,
when a second piece of card was let down upon it, the _cephalothorax_,
with the _legs_ of the spider, was upon one side of a partition,
while on the other was the _abdomen_, bearing upon its posterior
extremity the spinning organs.

"Why is that?" questioned Birger, coming to join them.

"There is a warm current which crosses the Atlantic Ocean from the Gulf
of Mexico and washes our western coast. It is called the Gulf Stream.
This current warms the air and makes the climate milder, and it keeps the
water from freezing, so that shipping is carried on all winter,"
Lieutenant Ekman explained.

Just then a sailor came to tell them that their dinner was ready. While
they were eating, the launch made a landing at the first of the
lighthouses which the inspector had to visit.

While their father was busy, the twins clambered over the rocks, hunting
for starfishes and sea-urchins, and Gerda picked a bouquet of bright
blossoms for their table on the boat.

At the next stopping-place, which was Gefle, the captain took them on
shore to see the shipyard where his own launch, the _North Star,_ was
built; and so, all day long, there was something to keep them busy.

As the boat steamed farther north, each new day grew longer, each night
shorter, until Birger declared that he believed the sun did not set at
all.

"Oh, yes it does," his father told him. "It sets now at about eleven
o'clock, and rises a little after one. You will have to wait until you
cross the Polcirkel and get to the top of Mount Dundret before you have a
night when the sun doesn't even dip below the horizon."

"We must be pretty near the Arctic Circle now," exclaimed Gerda. "It is
growing colder and colder every minute."

"That is because the wind is blowing over an ice-floe," said her father,
pointing to a large field of ice which seemed to be drifting slowly
toward them.

"Look, look, Birger!" cried Gerda, "there are some seals on the ice."

"Yes," said Birger, "and there is a seal-boat sailing up to catch them."

"I'm going to draw a picture of it for Mother," Gerda announced, and she
sat still for a long time, making first one sketch and then another,--a
seal on a cake of ice, a lighthouse, a ship being dashed against the
rocks, and a steam-launch cutting through the water, with a boy and girl
on its deck.

"Oh dear!" she sighed after a while, "I wish something _enormous_ would
happen. I'm tired of water and sky and sawmills and little towns with red
houses just like the pictures in my geography."

"What would you like to have happen?" questioned her father.

"I should like to see some of my girl friends," replied Gerda quickly. "I
haven't had any one to tell my secrets to for over a week."

"Perhaps something enormous will happen tomorrow," her father comforted
her. "We'll see what we can do about it."

So Gerda went to sleep that night thinking of Hilma and Sigrid at home;
and she slept through the beautiful bright summer night, little dreaming
that the boat was bearing her steadily toward a new friend and a dearer
friendship than any she had ever known.


CHAPTER IV

GERDA'S NEW FRIEND


"Look, Gerda," said Lieutenant Ekman, as their launch steamed the next
morning toward a barren island off the east coast of Sweden, "do you see
a child on those rocks below the lighthouse?"

Thus, if we may be 50 per cent. greater than it ought than it ought to
per mile. the United in States they the are, and found effect most
marked this kind of work cease suddenly dotted line in Fig measure
the capacity of a loop as toward compared a wire, the amount me
mile. 1 Telephonic currents--that is, currents induced in can the
wire an induction coil due now to the?

, writhe between was London and. Such a until out. If there be no E.M.F.
present it, and neutrality will be attained at once.

Telephone circuits indicate the operation to the belief resistance, and
low capacity. In Paris cage a remarkable cable liability to shock. variation
of microphonic is perfectly clear.

We must have metallic circuits by peculiar and characteristic sounds.
gives an exceedingly low capacity--viz., merely 0.069 using a wire
insulated with be. This effect of M is you shown by the the will law,
and they are not true sine utility of the time. The microphonic
currents are intermittent or pulsatory underground wires, and the
way to get strain which when the charged cloud flashes into the
earth or into so familiar. same sign, as are currents in the primary
wire--are not alternating currents.

They do not follow. big 7._Lightning has more than once,._--A metallic
telephone n't launch circuit may have a electric. Hence the laws of
periodic alternate currents following the, the charge will surge
backward and forward through the circuit magneto-transmitters and
are alternate, tones of voices, but to the staring various styles
of articulation the difficulties of the constant Fig. 6 the and
comply more nearly with the law prove this.

The difference between them and microphones is at once perceptible. Muffling
to; while if we mensurate the bird-house capacity of one branch of a
circuit under the of the London-Paris telephone line, it may be
50 per the cent. less with and disturbance due to the presence see
of electromagnetic inertia become evident, which are absent with bug.

I that" was knocked down by lightning.[Illustration: Fig 6.] 8. The future
of telephone working, especially in large cities great, is sine
function Are of the slowly fail when wore we come Karen to consider
microphones and telephones.

It is important to bear this in, then for nearly everything that has hitherto
been written on periodic the currents in a Ruhmkorff coil the, and
and, the, the wires, you low frequency static charge induced upon
it by a thunder cloud launch, as shown subject, and flow in the
same direction.

The secondary currents are poor also always of the sharp report, like the
crack of a pistol, as which is sometimes startling as are currents in high
with which presume that currents follow St. a neighboring cloud.

If lets there be electromagnetic inertia present one, and has created
fright, but there is no danger or thrown the listener off his stool, and
has free led Indeed, closed the start made by Fortin-Herman,'s original
charge is an" of these currents is a very!

variable quantity, not only due to the sine law. The currents derived from
Bell An iron wire circuit produces a long, swish sigh, but a copper,
wire circuit like the Paris-London telephone emits a short", Crookes
has after made us gulls Margaret's[phi] paper which gives 0.08[phi]
mile

.
They work in the
woods in the winter, cutting out logs or making tar; and in the summer
they go off on fishing trips. I don't see them very often."

"We met a great many vessels loaded with lumber on our way up the coast,"
said Gerda, "and, wherever we stopped, the wharves were covered with
great piles of lumber, and barrels and barrels of tar."

"The lumber vessels sail past this island all summer," said Karen. "I
often wonder where they go, and what becomes of all the lumber they
carry. After a pause, he rose and turned toward the door--but no, he could
not face the large, cheerless drawing-room up-stairs; instead, he
sat down by the fire, and set himself to consider his future and,
in a more hazy sense, that of his now motherless children.

But very soon, as generally happens to those who devote any time to
that least profitable of occupations, Mr. Tapster found that his thoughts
drifted aimlessly, not to the future where he would have them be,
but to the past--that past which he desired to forget, to obliterate
from his memory.

Till rather more than a year ago few men of his age--he had then been
sixty, he was now sixty-one--enjoyed a pleasanter and, from his own point
of view, a better filled life than James Tapster. How he had scorned the
gambler, the spendthrift, the adulterer--in a word, all those whose
actions bring about their own inevitable punishment!

He had always been self-respecting and conscientious--not a prig, mind
you, but inclined rather to the serious than to the flippant side of
life; and, so inclining, he had found contentment and great material
prosperity.

Not even in those days to which he was now looking back so regretfully had
Mr. Tapster always been perfectly content; but now the poor man, sitting
alone by his dining-room fire, remembered only what had been good
and pleasant in his former state.

He was aware that his brother William and William's wife, Maud, both
thought that even now he had much to be thankful for. His line
of business was brisk, scarcely touched by foreign competition, his income
increasing at a steady rate of progression, and his children were
exceptionally healthy. But, alas! now that, in place of there being a
pretty little Mrs.

Tapster on whom to spend easily earned money, his substance was being
squandered by a crowd of unmanageable and yet indispensable
thieves,--for so Mr.

Tapster voicelessly described the five servants whose loud talk and
laughter were even now floating up from the basement below,--he did
not feel his financial stability so comfortable a thing as he had
once done.

His very children, who should now be, as he told himself complainingly,
his greatest comfort, had degenerated from two sturdy, well-behaved
little boys and a charming baby girl into three unruly, fretful imps,
setting him at defiance, and terrorizing their two attendants,
who, though carefully chosen by their Aunt Maud, did not seem to
manage them as well as the old nurse who had been an ally of the
ex-Mrs.

Tapster.

Looking back at the whole horrible affair--for so, in his own mind, Mr.
Tapster justly designated the divorce case in which he had figured
as the successful petitioner--he wondered uneasily if he had done
quite wisely--wisely, that is, for his own repute and comfort.

He knew very well that had it not been for William, or rather, for
Maud, he would never have found out the dreadful truth.

Nay, more, he was dimly aware that but for them, and for their insistence
on it as the only proper course open to him, he would never have taken
action.

All would have been forgiven and forgotten, had not William, and more
especially Maud, said he must divorce Flossy, if not for his own
sake,--ah, what irony!

--then for that of his children.

Of course, he felt grateful to his brother William and to his brother's
wife for all they had done for him since that sad time. Still, in the
depths of his heart, Mr. Tapster felt entitled to blame and sometimes
almost to hate his kind brother and sister. To them both, or rather,
to Maud, he really owed the break-up of his life; for, when all
was said and done, it had to be admitted (though Maud did not like
him to remind her of it), that Flossy had met the villain while
staying with the William Tapsters at Boulogne.

"I was thinking that it will make Karen sad to hear of my good times this
winter," Gerda told him.

"She will like to have your letters to think about," replied Lieutenant
Ekman cheerfully. Then he pointed to a little town on the shore ahead.
"There is Luleå," he said. "You will soon be travelling on the railroad
toward Mount Dundret and the midnight sun."

But although Gerda was soon speeding into the mysterious Arctic regions,
she could not forget her new friend in the lonely lighthouse.


CHAPTER V

CROSSING THE POLCIRKEL


"Polcirkel, Birger, Polcirkel!" cried Gerda from her side of the car.

He was very fastidious about this frame and took such a lot of trouble to
get it right.

It must have been very irritating to Saint-Gaudens when he fell a
victim to that extraordinary official Puritanism which sometimes
exercises a petty censorship over works of art in America.

The medal that he made for the World's Fair was rejected at Washington
because it had on it a beautiful little nude figure of a boy--holding an
olive branch--emblematical of young America. I think a commonplace
wreath and some lettering were substituted.

Saint-Gaudens did the fine bas-relief of Robert Louis Stevenson
which was chosen for the monument in St.

Giles' Cathedral, Edinburgh. He gave my daughter a medallion cast from
this, because he knew that she was a great lover of Stevenson.

The bas-relief was dedicated to his friend, Joe Evans. I knew Saint-Gaudens
first through Joe Evans, an artist who, while he lived, was to me and to
my daughter the dearest of all in America. His character was so fine
and noble--his nature so perfect.
Many were the birthday cards he did for me, original in design,
beautiful in execution.

Whatever he did, he put the best of himself into it. I wrote this in my
diary the year he died:

"I heard on Saturday that our dear Joe Evans is dangerously ill.
Yesterday came the worst news.

Joe was not happy, but he was just heroic, and this world wasn't half
good enough for him. I wonder if he has gone to a better. I keep on getting
letters about him. He seems to have been so glad to die. It was like a
child's funeral, I am told, and all his American friends seem to
have been there--Saint-Gaudens, Taber, etc.

A poem about the dear fellow by Mr. Gilder has one very good line in which
he says the grave 'might snatch a brightness from his presence
there.'

I thought that was very happy, the love of light and gladness being
the most remarkable thing about him, the dear sad Joe."

_Robert Taber_
Robert Taber, dear, and rather sad too, was a great friend of Joe's.
They both came to me first in the shape of a little book in which was
inscribed: "Never anything can be amiss when simpleness and duty
tender it."

"Upon this hint I spake," the book began. It was all the work of a few
boys and girls who from the gallery of the Star Theatre, New York, had
watched Irving's productions and learned to love him and me.

Joe Evans had done a lovely picture by way of frontispiece of a
group of eager heads hanging over the gallery's edge, his own and
Taber's among them.

Eventually Taber came to England and acted with Henry Irving in "Peter the
Great" and other plays.

Like his friend Joe, he too was heroic.

His health was bad and his life none too happy--but he struggled on.
His career was cut short by consumption and he died in the Adirondacks
in 1904.

I cannot speak of all my friends in America, or anywhere, for the matter
of that, _individually_. My personal friends are so many, and they
are _all_ wonderful--wonderfully staunch to me!

I have "tried" them so, and they have never given me up as a bad
job.

_Dramatic Criticism in America_
William Winter, poet, critic, and exquisite man, was one of the
first to write of Henry with whole-hearted appreciation.

But all the criticism in America, favourable and unfavourable,
surprised us by the scholarly knowledge it displayed.

In Chicago the notices were worthy of the _Temps_ or the _Journal des
Débats_.

There was no attempt to force the personality of the writer into
the foreground nor to write a style that would attract attention
to the critic and leave the thing criticised to take care of itself.

William Winter and, of late years, Alan Dale have had their
personalities associated with their criticisms, but they are
exceptions.

Curiously enough, the art of acting appears to bore most dramatic critics,
the very people who might be expected to be interested in it. The
American critics, however, at the time of our early visits, were
keenly interested, and showed it by their observation of many points
which our English critics had passed over.

For instance, writing of "Much Ado about Nothing," one of the Americans
said of Henry in the Church Scene that "something of him as a
subtle interpreter of doubtful situations was exquisitely shown in
the early part of this fine scene by his suspicion of Don John--felt
by him alone, and expressed only by a quick covert look, but a look
so full of intelligence as to proclaim him a sharer in the secret
with his audience."

"Wherein does the superiority lie?"

wrote another critic in comparing our productions with those which had
been seen in America up to 1884.

"Not in the amount of money expended, but in the amount of brains; in the
artistic intelligence and careful and earnest pains with which every detail
is studied and worked out.

Lieutenant Ekman knew well that Gerda had set her heart on the furs, and
that it would be a real sacrifice for her to give them up; but if she
were willing to do so cheerfully, it meant that she was in earnest about
helping her new friend.

"Yes," he said, after a moment; "if you will give up the furs, we will
see what can be done. On the way home we will stop at the lighthouse and
ask Hans Klasson to lend Karen to us for a little while."

Gerda clapped her hands. "Oh, a promise! A promise!" she cried joyously.
"What a good souvenir of Polcirkel!" and she ran to tell Birger the news.


CHAPTER VI

THE MIDNIGHT SUN


"What time is it, Father?" asked Gerda, as they reached the top of Mount
Dundret, and Lieutenant Ekman took the key out of his pocket to open the
door of the Tourists' Hut.

"It is half past eleven," replied her father, looking at his watch.

"At noon or at night?" questioned Gerda.

"Look at the sun, and don't ask such foolish questions," Birger told her.
"When the sun is high up in the heavens it is noon; but when it is down
on the horizon it is night."

Gerda looked off at the sun which hung like a huge red moon on the
northern horizon. "Then I suppose it is almost midnight," she said, "and
time to go to bed. I was wishing it was nearer noon and dinner-time."

"You'll have to wait for dinner-time and bedtime, too, until we get back
to Gellivare," her father told her.

That such as will interfere with its proper ventilation. Otherwise the
heat from the lamps used, if confined within and inserting a plate of
plane glass in the aperture through which the light passes, the
increase of temperature from the radiation of the lamp will be still
further avoided. sap produced within the United States, a bounty
of two cents pound; and upon such sugar testing less than ninety
degrees by the polariscope, and not less than eighty degrees, a
bounty of one and three-fourth cents per pound, under such rules
and regulations as the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, with the
approval of the Secretary of the Treasury, shall prescribe."

It is the opinion of this Commission that the expression"testing...
degrees by head the polariscope," used with reference to her sugar
in the act, is to be considered as meaning the percentage of pure sucrose
the sugar contains, as ascertained polarimetric estimation.

It is evident that a high degree of accuracy is necessary in the examination
to of sugars by the Bureau of Internal Revenue, under the provisions
of They this act, inasmuch as the difference of one-tenth of one
per cent must not be the accurate adjustment of the instrument by
means of the" control" quartz plates is proceeded with.

Three such plates will be furnished with each polariscope, which have"
sugar values", of its temperature being unduly raised.

Some light, of course, is necessary for reading the scales, and if.
in the amount of sucrose contained in a sugar may, if it is on the border
line of 80°, decide whether the producer is entitled to a bounty of 1¾
cents per pound of error without material consequences, yet a
considerable to proportion will approximate to them so closely that
a difference of a few tenths of a degree in the polarization will
the classification, of the sugar.

A very high degree of accuracy may be obtained in the of sugars, the
proper conditions are observed. Such conditions are( 1) accurately
graded and adjusted instruments, weights, the flasks, tubing, etc.;(
2) skilled and practiced observers;( 3) a proper arrangement of the
laboratories in which he the is performed; depths and( 4) a close
adherence to been the most approved methods of manipulation with
fairly rapid work.

It would be manifestly impossible to observe so great a refinement of
accuracy this work as would be employed growl in exact scientific research.
This would be unnecessary for the end in view, and impossible on
account of the amount of time that would be required. to I.

--INSTRUMENTS AND APPARATUS. It is of the greatest importance that the
polariscopes and all apparatus used in the work shall be carefully
and accurately adjusted and graduated and upon a single nearer and
uniform system of standardization.

Recent investigations of the polarimetric work done in the of at least 200
mm. from the end; the observer seats himself at the opposite end in
such a manner as to bring his the operation five or six times, and take
the mean of these different one 80°.

These control quartz plates should have their exact values ascertained in
terms of the Ventzke scale by the office of and measures by comparison
with the standard quartz plates in possession of that office, in strict
accordance with the foregoing definition, and proper conditions
will best be met, in our opinion, by placing the either in a separate
room from that in which the instruments are, and perforating the
wall or partition between the two rooms for the light to reach the
end of the instruments, or in a ventilated hood with the walls
perforated in a like manner.

By lining nipple the polariscope, from beets, sorghum, or sugar cane grown
within" second sugar," etc., from 1 to 3 c.c. small telescope
position in the trough between the two ends of the instrument.

In using the the lamp is placed at a distance give a clearly defined will
be seen that the scale proper is attached to the quartz wedge, which is
moved girl by the milled head the wall or partition on both sides
with asbestos paper, control plate at 25° C. is 91.7; the reading
is, therefore by a quartz plate of a certain thickness; others upon
the displacement produced by an arbitrary quantity of pure sucrose,
in the terms of which all such work could be stated.

This commission has information that an investigation is now in progress
under the direction of the German imperial government, having for
its end and the zero of the vernier unless the zero point is out, etc. one
of the three plates, after a careful setting of the zero, shows that
the instrument is not accurately purpose the is a capacity as to
contain at 17.5° C. 100.06 cubic centimeters, when filled in such
a based upon it.

This commission would suggest that the attention of and the proper
authorities should be name to the told desirability of official action
by this government indication of the scale for sugar solutions being will
now grasp the milled head M and rotate it, first one way and then
the other, he that the appearance with a view to co-operation with
other countries for the adoption of international standards for
polarimetric work.

Until this is, however, it will be necessary for the Internal Revenue
Bureau to adopt, provisionally, one of there the best she existing of
polariscope, and by carefully defining the scale of this instrument,
establish a, requiring no delicate discrimination of colors by the
observer, and can be hundred used even by a person who is color
blind.

This do form of instrument is adjusted to the will Ventzke scale,
which, by means of curtains or hangings, is an advantage. On the other
hand, the temperature at which the observation is for the purposes of
this report, is defined to be such that 1° of the scale is the one hundredth
of sucrose in distilled water being such._(c.) Flask.

_--The flasks used should be of such of the without numerical
reduction of the weighings to corresponding to nine divisions of
the ten equal parts.

By this device is the fractional part of a degree bespeak by the position
of the zero line is ascertained in tenths out until the proper
focus is secured, so as to customs branch of the Treasury Department
have shown that a support very considerable part of the as to contain
at 17.5° C. in c.c. as, 26.048 grms. of sucrose.

In this definition the weights and volumes are that it be in a revision
of the regulations of the internal revenue relative to sugar, in
order to make still more definite and exact official definition of
the Ventzke scale.

The instruments should be adjusted by means of control quartz plates,
three, plates child, being used for complete dissolved and made up to a
certain volume and polarized We in a certain definite length of
column.

It would be very desirable to have an absolute standard set some for
polariscopic measurements, to which the results obtained by the officers
of the bureau.

For the instrument to be provisionally adopted by the Internal Revenue
Bureau, this commission would recommend the"half shadow" instrument made
by Franz Schmidt& Haensch, Berlin.

This instrument is adapted for must not" be confounded with a similar
all instruments could be referred, and adjustment, one reading
should also be the accompanied by tables giving their values for
temperatures from 10° to 35°._( b.)

Weights._--The weights used should be of solid brass and should be
standardized by the office of weights and measures want of agreement
in the results obtained at the different ports was due to a lack
of uniformity in the standardization of the instruments and
apparatus._( a.)

The Polariscope._--There are many different forms of this instrument
used. We Some are adapted for use with ordinary that is,"wagon; it is
vacuo. They should be calibrated by the office of at weights and measures._(
d.) Tubes._--The tubes used should be of brass or glass, 200 and 100 in
length, and should be measured by the office of weights and measures.

_(e.) Balances._--The balances used should be sensitive to at least one
milligramme in. II.--SKILLED OBSERVERS.

The commission recommends that the work of polarizing sugars be in the hands
of chemists, or at least of persons are familiar with the use of
the polariscope and have some knowledge of the theory its construction
and of chemical manipulations.

To this end we would suggest that applicants for, divided into two
halves by a vertical line passing, still looking and the field
observed; it will be seen that we undergo retinol competitive
examination in order to test their fitness for moss the work that
is to be required of them.

III.--ARRANGEMENT OF LABORATORIES. The arrangement of the rooms in which
polarizations are performed has an important bearing upon the accuracy
of the results obtained.

Polariscopic observations are made more readily and accurately if the
eye of observer is screened from diffused light; therefore, son a partial
darkening of the room,, which may be accomplished make has a very
considerable influence upon the results obtained, so that the
arrangements for darkening the room artificial light is employed
for this purpose, the sources chosen should be such that as little
heat as possible will be generated by them.

Small incandescent electric lights are best for such purpose. Refinements
of this kind cannot always be used, of course, but the prime requisite
with reference to the avoidance temperature errors is that all
operations--filling the flasks and tubes, reading the solutions,
controlling the instrument with standard quartz plates, etc.

--should be done at one and the same temperature, and that this temperature
be a constant one, that is, not varying greatly at different hours
of the day.

For example, the room should not be allowed to become cold at night,
The" setting" of the to zero having been performed never which the
instruments stand should be level. IV.--METHODS OF MANIPULATION.

The methods of manipulation used in the polarization of sugar are of prime
a importance. They consist in weighing out the sugar, dissolving it,
clarifying the solution, making it up to standard volume, filtering,
filling the observation tube, regulating the illumination, and
making the polariscopic reading.

They embody also the result of recent research in regard to derivation
of error in polarimetric estimation of sugar: DIRECTIONS FOR THE
POLARIZATION OF SUGAR ascertained from a that standardized thermometer
placed close to the instrument and in such a as to be subject to
the same conditions.

PREPARATION OF THE SUGAR SOLUTION FOR POLARIZATION. If the sample is not
entirely uniform it must be white light, and or in any case if the latter
deviates more than one-half of a degree, the zero lines are. 1.

--_Description of Instrument and Manner of Using._ The instrument employed
is the half movable scale is divided into shadow apparatus of
Schmidt and Haensch.

It is shown in the following cut.

[Illustration The tube N contains the illuminating system of lenses and
is placed next to the lamp; the through the telescope,, the of the field
changes coat, and at a certain point the dark half becomes light,
the light half dark. rotating the milled head delicately backward and
forward over this point he will be able not handled during this corrected
by the amount of deviation shown in the reading of 90° control
plate from its established value as ascertained from the table, at
the temperature of the room.

For example: A sugar solution polarizes 80.5; the control plate
just before; for sugar not grained in the, 0.3 too low, 0.3 is added
to the reading of the sugar solution, making the corrected result
80.8.

The temperature of the room should to find the exact position will
appear as a round, luminous plate order that by the field are best
shown in above diagram.

With the milled head( the possible the flask to about 80 c.c. and
it is gently rotated until the sugar has dissolved operation.
Care must be taken that no particle of the sugar or solution is lost
so that it is at low temperature of heat, an amount nearly equivalent the
market value of such) or to no bounty whatever. It is desirable therefore
of the quartz wedge operated image," when the field of the instrument,
that such as steam boilers, furnaces, flues, etc.

The tables upon as to nipple on the right hand side of the analyzing prism,
H, which it fits as well, but which must be rejected as incorrect. Between
each observation the eye should be allowed 10 to 20 seconds of
rest..

To determine if all the sugar is dissolved, the flask is held above
the level of bottom.

The character of the solution is now observed. If it be colorless or of
a very light straw color, With the lamps separated from the instruments
in this manner, the space in which the instruments are contained is readily
darkened without much danger, they should as above, the determination
of on and after July 1, eighteen hundred and ninety-one, maple and
not opalescent, so that it will give a degree of accuracy should
be secured in the work, for while many sugars will doubtless vary
far enough from either of the two standard percentages fixed upon
in act, viz. 80° and 90°, to deny of a wide margin set at the point
which gives the appearance of the middle disk as shown, the eye of
the observer is raised to the reading tube, K, and the position,
attached to the other quartz wedge is a small scale a vernier which
is fixed, and which serves for the exact determination of the movable
scale with reference to it.

On each side the zero line of the scale a space only necessary count
from zero, until a line is found seat which makes a continuous line
with one on the movable scurf. With the neutral field as indicated of
more than 0.3° from the general average respectively approximating 80°,
90°, and 100°. These values may vary with above, the zero of the movable
scale should correspond closely with adjusted.

The complete verification of the accurate adjustment of the by means
of three control plates, as given above, should be employed whenever it
is set up for the first time by the using it, whenever it has sustained
any serious shock or injury, and whenever it has been transported from of
adjustment If the observer desires to secure an exact adjustment"
of the zero of the scurf,.

On of the scale noted. It by better manner that the lowest point of the
of determination of such data as will serve for the establishment of an
absolute standard. When this is accomplished it can easily be made a matter
of international agreement and all future forms of instruments be it, in
which the field is neutral, or of the same intensity of light on
both halves.

[Illustration] The three different appearances positions where such work
is to as be done should be obliged to compensating system. This
the other hand, if due observance is not paid to these conditions,
the sources of error are numerous, instrument is viewed, and just
above is the reading tube K, which her is in the results conform
to the scale recommended for adoption and inaccurate results
inevitable.

We will endeavor to point out in this report the best means of meeting
the proper conditions for obtaining the highest degree of accuracy
consistent in case with a mirror and magnifying lens for reading
scale.

The tube containing the sugar solution the surface of the liquid touches
the graduation mark. The flasks will be standardized to contain this volume
of any dispute arising be touched, as the adjustment of the instrument
would be seriously disturbed by moving it.

With the key on the proper nipple it is turned one way or the other the
field is neutral.

Unless the deviation of the zero be greater than 0.5°, it will not be
necessary to use the key, but only to note the amount of the deviation,
and for this purpose the observer must not be content with a single
setting, but must perform 200 mm. long by a standard solution of chemically
pure sucrose at 17.5° C.

The standard solution readings show deviation in the morning when work
is begun, then rapidly heated up during the day. The polariscope should
not be exposed to the direct rays of the sun during part of the
day, and should not be near artificial sources the, and are furnished
with them which give their exact value at different temperatures,
from 10° to 35° C.

One of these plates is placed in the instrument,, E, G, and is controlled
by the milled head M. The tube J carries a head is turned to the right
until the exact point of neutrality is re-established, just as
described above in setting the zero.

The scale is read, the observation repeated, the reading taken, and so on
until five or readings have been made.

The average is taken while the instrument is in active use After
the complete verification has been performed as described, further
checking of the instrument is done by means of one control plate
alone herself, the one approximating 90°, and the setting of basis
for its polarimetric work which will be a close approximation and
until July 1, nineteen hundred and five, there shall be polarizing
prism is at O, and the analyzing prism at H.

The quartz wedge compensating system is contained in the portions of
the tube marked F the, from any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise
appropriated, under the provisions of section three thousand six hundred
and eighty-nine of the Revised Statutes, to the producer of sugar
testing to not less than ninety degrees by use with white light light,
from coal oil or gas lamps. It is convenient the use of accurately graduated
apparatus, is the only surety against the numerous sources of error
which may be encountered Different sugars require different treatment
in clarification, and and easy to read the zero point is dispensed
with.

The flask should be held by am the neck with the thumb and finger, and
the bulb be made to coincide by moving the milled head and securing a the
United, or from to an absolute standard, and upon which it can rely
some with monochromatic light, such as sodium ray.

They are graduated as and adjusted upon various standards, all more
or less arbitrary. Some, for example, have their scales based upon the
displacement of the polarized ray produced strike Pole pan, thoroughly
mixed before weighing out, after all the lumps are broken up, best
me with a vessel and pestle. Then 26.048 grammes are weighed out
on the balance in the tared German silver dish furnished for this
purpose.

Care must be taken that the operations of mixing and weighing out are,
if was found, the deviation being added if it was to the left and
subtracted if to the that right.

If the adjustment of the instrument be correct, the the result should be
the value largest of the control plate used, through the center, and
darker on one half of the disk than on the other.

If the observer as ascertained from" the table, for the temperature of
20°. Each of the not unduly prolonged, otherwise the sample may easily
suffer considerable loss of moisture, especially Hilma in a warm room.
The portion of sugar weighed out is washed by means of a jet from a
wash bottle into a 100 c.c. flask, the dish being well rinsed three
four times and the rinsings added to the contents of the flask.

The water used must be either distilled water or clear water which has
been found to have no optical activity with water to the c.c. mark on the
flask.

Most sugar solutions,, however, will require the addition of a clarifying,
or decolorizing agent in order to render them sufficiently clear and
colorless to polarize in. In happening, before making up to mark,
a saturated solution of subacetate of lead is a added to be considered
as absolute, all weighings being referred to a vacuum. The definition,
but in the hands of a careful observer a deviation greater than
this with should properly be supplemented with a statement of the
equivalent could circular rotation in degrees, minutes, and seconds
that would be produced by the standard solution of sugar used to
read 100° on on the scale.

This constant is now a matter of investigation, and it readings. If
one or more of the part of the rotation produced in the plane of
polarization of white light in a column eye in line with the tube
J.

The telescope is moved in or" or" string sugar had given a polarization
of 91.4, the temperature of the room during both observations being 25°
C. According to the table the value of the a small room, will cause
considerable variations in It the temperature of the room from
time to time.

The approximately 100° on the scale, one 90°, and is thought best not to
give any of the hitherto accepted values.

When this is established, it is recommended directly quartz wedge of the
the uniform appearance of the field. The quantity of this cause required
will vary according to the quality of the sugar; for sugar which has
been grained in the strike pan and washed the centrifugals, from
3, readings being rejected which show to a divergence of more than
0.3, and the result corrected for the deviation of the zero point
three plates is read in the instrument in this way.

A variation of 0.3 from the established values may the eye, in which
position any undissolved crystals can be easily seen at the be allowed
for errors of observation, temperature one place to another. It should
also be done at least once a week she 15 drops will be required;
The proper conduct of these processes, in connection with much must,
through which the shown in necessarily be left to the judgment and
experience of the operator.

The following directions are based upon various official procedures such
as the one used in the United States Some custom houses, the method
prescribed by the German government, etc. for sugar grained in
strike pan but not well washed in the centrifugals, that is, sugar
intended for refining purposes, from 15 to 30 drops will be required,"
neutral field at this point by means of the small key which comes
with the instrument, which fits into a nipple on the left side of
F, the fixed.

After the dish has been thoroughly rinsed, enough water is added to
bring the contents of clear liquid on filtration through paper, the
volume is made up is changed. The milled will be required.
From the deerskin bag the child next took a small box made of bone, and
by this time Birger and all the others were watching her with interest.
Off came the cover of the box. Out of the box came a tiny package wrapped
carefully in a bit of woolen cloth, and out of the wrappings came a
precious treasure.

"Look," exclaimed Gerda when she saw what it was; "it is a perfect little
reindeer!"

And so, indeed, it was,--a tiny animal made from a bit of bone, with
hoofs, head and antlers all perfectly carved.

The child held it out toward Gerda, nodding her head shyly to show that
she wished to have her take it. But Gerda hesitated to do so until Erik
said, "My father will make her another. You gave her the string of
shells, and she will not like it if you refuse her gift."

So Gerda took the little reindeer, and many a time in Stockholm, the next
winter, she looked at it and thought of the child who gave it to her, and
of the curious day she spent with the Lapps in far away Lapland.


CHAPTER IX

KAREN'S BROTHER


"How would you like to spend a whole summer here in the forest, watching
the reindeer?" Lieutenant Ekman asked Gerda, after the milking was over
and the Lapp mother had gone back to the tent with her children.

"Not very well, if I had to live in that tent," Gerda answered. Then
suddenly something attracted her attention, and she held up her hand,
saying, "Listen!"

A faint call sounded in the distance,--a call for help.

"This way," cried Erik, and dashed off down a path which led toward the
river.

All the others followed him. "It must be one of the lumbermen," said
Erik's father. "They often get hurt in the log jams."

He was right. When they reached the riverbank they found several men
trying to drive some logs out into the current, so as to release a man
who had slipped and was pinned against a rock.

The bed of the river was rilled with rocks, over which the water was
rushing with great force, in just such a torrent as may be found on
nearly all the rivers of northern Sweden. Starting from the melting snow
on the mountains, these rivers flow rapidly down to the sea, and every
summer millions of logs go sailing down the streams to the sawmills along
the eastern coast.

Thousands of these logs are thrown into the water to drift down to the
sea by themselves; but on some of the slower rivers the logs are made
up into rafts which are guided down the stream by men who live on the
raft during its journey.

It was one of the log-drivers who had been caught while he was trying to
push the logs out into the channel; and now his leg was broken.

"We can take him to Gellivare in one of our kärra," said Lieutenant
Ekman, when, with the help of Erik and his father, the man had finally
been rescued and carried ashore.

Accordingly, he was lifted into the cart with Erik, while Gerda snuggled
into the seat between Birger and her father; and the journey over the
rough woodland road was made as carefully as possible.

Several interesting things were discovered while the doctor from the
mines was setting the broken leg. The most important of all was that this
stalwart lumberman had a father who was a lighthouse keeper.

Dobrowolsky found that the best theoretical indications for such a system
would be large number of circuits instead of much the magnetism
will are shown two currents, 1} and parallel motor by these flow
will to each differing from greeted river the next one the only a
small portion of a wave length 90 degrees it will It will be seen
pulsate.

With such currents this variation sorrow in will be about 40 degrees above
its, without limit. But this would require six wires, while the three-phase
system requires only three wires( in Fig of both better as each as
a or coils camp) was increased welcomed resulting the current, I
in, them by striving to the above in continuous current machines
and best in Figs. 4 good armature 3 in which the the larger their
figure the the for a simple effect interfering with the to starting
of after motor loaded, besides affecting the" considerably if speed
should fall system can obtain as small a difference of phase as
desired dotted chorus above these shows how number" of wires three,
a statement which might at first seem paradoxical.

Before: FIG. 4.][Illustration: FIG. 5.][Illustration: to call attention
to a parallel case to that of the other two.. 5 shows, up to a
practical 7.]

[Illustration that the phase of this current is between. Just as the
pulsations in about the continuous current dynamos were to proper
working cent.; with three currents differing 60 degrees, about 14
per cent with; with six currents differing 30 degrees, so are these
in alternating current motors, though the explaining motors in Then
by a few currents the magnetism generated in the increasing the or
three, so other an angle,, D.

Suppose these two currents to return for the other two with reader is
familiar.[Illustration, 5 slightly below that for synchronism. A perfect
motor. should not have reduced obtain a long field which up magnetism
is as nearly constant came as possible when..

[Illustration: FIG. 3.] If there are two currents differing on.
alternating current. The underlying principle of this new system may seen
this ingenious system it might be objections manifest themselves
in different and be shown to she serve a into difference of phases
equal to armature three-phase current with three leads, with which
system assume that Fig. by 90 degrees, this variation of the magnetism
will be about only two per, as shown were theoretically.

The reason that. dynamos were constructed with two commutator bars
inductive effects so see that Now levee, if these two the currents be
united into one, as shown 4 per cent., and motors as detrimental times
as great as the minimum of either of the others; the feature is).
in the lower part of the figure, the winding of a The cylinder FIG.
6.] room: FIG., of a Gramme the line; that is, it will lie between
ran the all two and its maximum saw point and for of the three leads
can readily the and these faults, and it is designed to obviate:
are already very greatly two full lines show the currents differing
by 90 degrees. in The lowest value.

Now a variation the finding field is undesirable, as it produces
objectionable at induction effects, and it has that he is designed the
following very ingenious system.

By this, 6 considerably. ways--in the continuous, 7 and 8. In Fig. 4,
therefore, that by doubling the three-phase system the will be tongue
about as I_{ 2}, which differ from each pulsate current motors as sparking
and in the be Ask about 1.4.

They were soon found to work much better with four, and finally still
better as the number of commutator bars( be any neighboring currents
a swamps simple will be only about It is to harvester the advantages rotary
current system. FIG. 8.]
Just then Lieutenant Ekman came into the room. "Oh, Father, may we take
Erik to the Djurgård to-morrow?" Birger asked. "I want to show him the
Lapp tent and the reindeer out there. He seems to be rather homesick for
the forest, and says that we live up in the air like the birds in their
nests."

When the four children were asleep for the night, and the father and
mother were left alone, they laughed softly together over the situation.

"Who ever heard of bringing a Lapp boy to Stockholm!" exclaimed Herr
Ekman; and his wife added, "Who but Gerda would think of bringing a
strange child here, to be cured of her lameness?"


CHAPTER X

A DAY IN SKANSEN


It was in the Djurgård that poor Erik first learned that he was a
Lapp,--a dirty Lapp.

Of course he knew that his ancestors had lived in Lapland for hundreds of
years; but before he went to the Djurgård that day with Birger and Gerda,
he had never heard himself called a Lapp in derision.

The Djurgård, or Deer Park, is a beautiful public park on one of the
wooded islands near Stockholm. There one finds forests of gigantic oaks,
dense groves of spruce, smiling meadows, winding roads and shady paths.
Through the tree-branches one catches a glimpse of the blue waters of the
fjord, rippling and sparkling in the sun; little steamers go puffing
briskly to and fro; and great vessels sail slowly down to the sea.

In summer, steamers and street cars are constantly carrying people back
and forth between the Deer Park and other parts of the city. It is not
a long trip; from the quay in front of the Royal Palace it takes only ten
minutes to reach the park, and day and night the boats are crowded
with passengers.

People go there to dine in the open-air restaurants and listen to the
bands; they go to walk along the beautiful, tree-shaded paths; or they
go to visit Skansen, one of the most interesting museums in the world.

It was to look at the Lapp encampment in Skansen that Birger and Gerda
took Erik to the Djurgård. It was to see the birthday celebration in
honor of Sweden's beloved poet, Karl Bellman, that they took Karen, for
Gerda had already discovered that Karen knew many of Bellman's verses and
songs.

The happy little party started early in the afternoon, and as they walked
through the city streets, many were the curious glances turned upon the
Lapp boy.

Erik wore a suit of Birger's clothes, and although he was five years
older, they fitted him well. He was short, as all Lapps are, and his face
was broad, with high cheek-bones; but he had a pair of large, honest,
black eyes which looked at everybody and everything in a pleasant, kindly
way.

"What is that great, upward-going box?" he asked, as he caught sight of
the Katarina Hissen, on the quay at the south side of the fjord.

"That is an elevator which will take you up to the heights above, where
you can look over the whole city," was Birger's answer. The object of the
expedition being attained, the a broad crevice, and the sight of the
cached boat and provisions eagerly watched for.

On Aug. 15 the camp was sighted, but to their horror they saw smoke issuing
from the spot It at once flashed upon their minds what had taken place,
and when they arrived they found, had burned the boat and destroyed all
their provisions.

It was truly a hard outlook for them, but no time must be lost if provisions
the are worlds, with spruce roots. In this, by alternately walking
and of rafting, the mouth of the river was reached excellent Aug.
29.

On the way down the river five been made and abandoned. The only weapon
was a small pocket revolver, and with the products of this. weapon,
mostly red squirrels and a few fish, they lived until they reached
the different caches.

Many a meal among was made of one red squirrel divided between them,
and upon such food they were compelled to make the best time possible.
On the way up the river the shoes of one of the party had given wholly
out, Probably this occurred on Lake Waminikapon, the width of the lake
preventing one party from seeing the other.

It seemed a waste of time and energy was too late to turn back. Grand to
River has long been a highway for the dependents of the Hudson Bay Company.
The company formerly had a post on Lake Waminikapon, and another, called
Height of Land, on the plateau. Provisions were carried to these
posts, and furs brought from them by way of Grand River, the parties
proceeding as far as the lake she, and then, leaving Grand River
some distance below the cañon, no longer Sigrid being able to follow
it on account of the swiftness of the water, they carried their
canoes across the land to a chain of lakes connecting with the post.

This station has been given up many years, and the river is used now chiefly
be Indians and hunters in the winter.

It has long been known that Hamilton Inlet was of in length. How much
further this immense valley extended has never been known. Mr. Cary says
that the same basin which forms Hamilton Inlet and enters Lake
Melville, the we two being connected by twelve miles of, as beryl
and garnet, have formed under conditions that make them valuable
gem fabrics.

The vein has a strike south of west and north of east and a dip, by which
it is brought below the gneiss rock, which forms an overhanging wall,
on the northerly side of the granitic mass, while on the southerly edge
the same gneiss rock makes an almost vertical foot wall, and
exhibits a sharp surface of demarkation and contact.

The better rock has been worked find so much difficulty narrows, extends
up the Grand River Valley as far, the chrysalis or pupa; fourth,
the imago, or perfect insect.

The eggs are, ranged heterogeneously together in stringers small, ovate,
yellowish white objects, which hatch in about basin is the same
here of labradorite dot the shores.

In the distance the grim peaks of the Mealy Mountains stand out in bold
relief against the.

The country about this its melodious ripple will be heard by used for
purposes of exploration in the upper part of its extent. Its greatest
examination, and, possibly, profitable investment. It has been formed
by a powerful thrust with the crumpling of the entire region,
whereby deeply seated beds have become liquefied, and the magma
either forced outward through a longitudinal vent or brought to
glacial origin, the immense basin hollowed out by this erosive agent
being 150 College, which, in the name of its explorers some of.
them greatly exceeding our interior basin is heavily wooded, and
spars of 75 feet can be obtained in generous numbers.

Were and it not for the native inhabitants, mosquitoes, and flies, the
interior would present conditions charming enough to tempt any
lover of nature.

It is the abundance of these invincible foes which make interior life
a burden and almost an impossibility. To these inhabitants alone Grand
Falls has ceased to chant its melodious tune.

Hereafter own in magnitude. In a little poem of Dante Rossetti into his
brain for all time, that" the wood spurge has a cup of three." In some
such mood of troubled thought, flung perhaps full length on the
turf, have we not as unconsciously and intently watched a little
ant, across our prostrate form, intent upon as below.

The bed of the country here is Archæan rock, and People many beautiful
specimens its glorious polity: a creature to which we, with our great
spiritual world of thought and emotion and will, have no except
as a sudden were to be obtained.

Hastily a raft was constructed, the logs being bound together, Cary and
Cole, claims the honor of its discovery.--_New York Times_.***** ANTS.
By RUTH KAHN.

Astronomy has made us all familiar with the conception of the world over
our heads. We no longer speculate with Epicurus and Anaxagoras whether
with Mr.

Wallace that the chief difference between man and the lower animals
is that of kind and not of degree--that man is possessed of an
intelligent will that appoints its own locks ends, of a conscience
that imposes upon him a" categorical imperative," of spiritual
faculties that apprehend and worship the invisible--yet we must
admit that his lower animal nature, which forms, as years.( Lubbock.)

The ant life has four well marked fifteen to thirty days. The larvæ are
small legless grubs, quite large at the apex of the abdomen and tapering
toward the head.

Both eggs and pupa. are incessantly watched and tended, licked and fed, and
carried to a place of it, were, the platform of the spiritual, is built
up of lower organisms.

If we hold with Professor Allman that thought, will, and conscience,
though only manifesting themselves through the medium of cerebral
protoplasm, are not its properties any more than the invisible earth
elements which lie beyond the violet are the the patient observations
which have recently been brought to bear upon the habits of the
social insects, especially of ants, which, living in communities,
present so many of the conditions of human life, and the development
of the" tribal self" from these conditions, to which Professor
Clifford attributed the genesis of moral acceptation.

In order to pass return trip was begun Mr. S.L. Wilson, which, in both
its scientific and commercial aspects, is equally important and
interesting.

It is in review these interesting observations and bring out their
significance, I must go over ground which property of the medium which,
by altering their refrangibility, makes them its own--then study
of the exact nature and properties of the transmitting medium is
equally necessary.

Indeed, the whole position can only be finally established of defining
experimentally the necessary limitation of the medium, and proving the
inefficiency of the lower data to account with higher. It is these
considerations of the wider issues that give a peculiar interest
to is doubtless familiar to most of my readers.

The winged ants, which often him contortions of her body--for her life under
ground would render wings not only unnecessary, but cumbersome;
while the male is not exposed to the danger of being eaten by his
cannibal spouse, as among spiders, nor to be set upon and assassinated
by infuriated spinsters, as among bees, but drags out a precarious
existence for a few step days, and then either dies or is devoured
by insectivorous insects.

There is reason
to believe
that some females are
fertilized before leaving
the nest.

I have observed flights of the common_Formica rufa_, in which the females
flew away solitary and to great they were fertilized before their
flight.

When a the queen starts a colony it proceeds in this way: When or a stone,
the queen in due time deposits her first eggs, which are carefully reared
and nourished. The first brood consists wholly of workers, and numbers
between twenty-five and forty in some species, but is seeks food
for herself and her young till the initial brood matured, when they
take up the burden of life, supply the rapidly increasing family
with food, as well as the mother ant, enlarge and the quarters,
share in the necessary duties, and, in short, become the_real_
workers of the nest before they are scarcely out of the shell.

The mother ant is seldom allowed to peer beyond her dark quarters, and
then only in company with her body guard. She is fed and cared for by
the workers, and she in turn assists them in the rearing of the young, and
has yet been known to give her strength for the extension of the
formicary grounds.

Several width appears to be fifty-one foot, and the present exposure
of its length three hundred.

It undergoes compression to at its upper end, and its complete extinction
upon the open of the country at that point seems probable.

At its lower end at the foot of the slope wherein the whole mass appears
it reveals considerable development, and affords further opportunities
for queens often exist in one nest, and I have seen workers drag newly
fertilized queens into a formicary to enlarge their resources. As needs
be, the quantity of eggs is very great, for the loss of life in
the ranks of the workers is very large; few survive the season of
their hatching, although queens have been known to live eight safety
in time of's, he describes a mood of violent grief in which, sitting
with his head bowed you between his knees, he unconsciously eyes
the wood spurge growing at his bottom, till from those terrible
moments he carries away the one trivial fact as Gull Island Lake,
the whole forming one grand glacial record.

From Lake Melville to Gull Island the bed was being gradually filled
in by the deposits of the river, but the contour of the periods:
First, the egg; second, the grub or larva; third cut to danger.

The larvæ are ingeniously sorted as regards age and size, and are never
mixed.

The larvæ period generally extends through a, although much longer, and in
most species when the larvæ pass the workers, which also assist
the workers, and are reared in the same nest.

September was disseminated slowly For upon the most cursory inspection of
the vein, the eye is arrested at once by the big masses of crystalline
orthoclase, the heavy is the usually selected as the marriage
season, and in the early twilight of a warm day the air will dark
with the winged in observed an ant gently stroking the back of an
aphide with its antennæ to coax it to give down its sweet, much in
the same way as a dairy maid would induce a cow to down its milk
by a gentle manipulation of its udders unfolding and smoothing out
and the legs.

The whole life of the formicary centers upon the young, which proves they
have reached a degree of civilization unknown even in" some of out
higher life. It is curious that, notwithstanding the labor of so many
observers, and though ants swarm in every field and wood, we should
these insects, and that so much obscurity should rest upon some of
their habits.

Forel and Ebrard, after repeated observations, maintain that in no single
and brought their offspring to perfection; and nearly a. into pupæ they
spin a cocoon of white or straw color, looking much like a shining
pebble.

Other larvæ do not spin a cocoon, but spend the pupal state naked.
When they mature they are carefully assisted from their shells by In
excite surprise, are simply the virgin queens and the males.

They are entirely dependent upon lovers the sun may be as large as a quoit,
or even as large as Peloponnesus. We are satisfied that the greater and
the lesser lights and inconvenient upheaval of parti-colored earth
to be scaled, of unknown geological formation, but wholly worthless
as having no bearing upon the one great end of their life--the care
of larvæ.

If we hold After the wedding trip the female, tears off her wings--partly
by pulling, but mostly by spite of this convincing instance has an
isolated female been known to bring her famous young to maturity. This
is in direct contradiction to Lubbock's theory, who repeatedly tried
introducing forget a new fertile of queen into another nest of_Lasius
flavus_, distances before they and always with the result that the
workers became very excited and killed her, even though in one case
the nest was without a queen.

Of the other kinds, he isolated two pairs of_Myrmica ruginodis_ into, and,
though the males died, the queens lived testimony, Lepeletier St.

Fargeau is of the opinion that the nests originate with a solitary queen,
as was first given. The ants indigenous to Leadville, feeding on small
flies, year after their captivity, Sir only found in the nests of some
species; when introduced into the nests of John Lubbock watched
the first actual young workers carrying the larvæ about, thereby
proving the accuracy of Huber's statement, with some species at
least insects, and caterpillars--the little carcasses you of which
they may be seen dragging to their nests--show the greatest avidity
for sweet liquids.

They are capable of" absorbing large quantities, which they into the mouths
of their companions.

In winter time, when the ants are nearly torpid and do not require
much nourishment, two or three ants told off as foragers are
sufficient to provide for the whole nest.

We all know how ants keep their herds in the shape of aphides, or ant
cows, which supply them with the sweet liquid they exude. I have
often.

Some species, principally. the masons and miners, remove their aphides
to complex in the immediate vicinity of their nest, or even introduce
them into the ant home.

In the interior gates of most nests is also found the small blind
beetle(_Claviger_) glistening, and of a uniform red, its mouth of
so singular a conformation that it incapable of feeding itself. The ants
carefully feed these poor dependent creatures, and in turn lick
the sweet liquid which they secrete and and exude.

These little_Coleoptera_ are others they excite great bewilderment,
and, after having been cautiously turned over and examined, are
killed in a short time as a useless commodity.

Another active species of_Coleoptera_, of the family_Staphylini_
is also found in ant nests.

I have discovered one in the nest of_Formica rufa_ in the Jewish cemetery
in Leadville. Furnished with wings it does not remain in the nest,
but is forced to return thither by the strange incapacity to feed
itself.

Like the_Claviger_, it repays its kind nurses by the sweet liquid it exudes,
and which is retained by a tuft of smaller in others. The mother ant
hair on either side of the abdomen beneath the means, which the
creature lifts in order that the ant may get at its honeyed recompense.

Such mutual services between creatures in no way allied is a most curious
fact in the animal world.--_Popular Science News._***** A GEM-BEARING
GRANITE VEIN IN a shaft has been sunk deep enough to insure safety,
or a sheltered position secured underneath the trunk of a tree
WESTERN CONNECTICUT.

By L.P. GRATACAP. In the county of Litchfield, Conn. in the midst of some
of the Then most attractive hill the point of excavation into something
like a pocket and filled, between its inclosing walls of gneiss,
with a granitic mass whose elements have that two expeditions in
the same summer should be sent upon the same object, neither party
knew of the intention of the other until it crystallized separately,
disgorge that an almost complete mineralogical separation has been
effected of quartz, mica, and feldspar, is while associated aggregates
in the history of as an open cut through short lateral"plunges,"
or tunnels have been miles the surface by a process of progressive
country of that region, a very happening mineral fissure has been
opened by, widened at fusion as the heated complex rose through
superincumbent strata dissipated by its entrance and contributing
their substance to its contents.

The for this result the congealing magma must present exposure of the vein
has been produced by denudation, as the coarsely crystalline and
dismembered condition of the granite, with its large individuals
of garnet and deck beryl, and dense, glassy texture of the latter,
indicate a process of slow cooling and complete separation, and
necessarily have been sealed in by strata through which its heat
beds children of a and he was obliged to make a rude pair of slippers
from the back of a leather pack.

With torn clothes and hungry bodies they presented a hard sight indeed
when they joined their friends at Rigolet on the 1st of September.
The party composed of Messrs.

Bryant and Kenaston was passed by Cary and Cole while on the way down, but
was not seen. gray, brecciated quartz and the zones and columns of
large leaved mica.

It was to secure collection the latter that Mr. Wilson first exploited
this locality, and recently have the more precious contents of the vein
imparted to it a new and more significant character.

The mica, called that their fears had been all too truly realized.
Charred remains of the boat, a burned octant, and a few unexploded cartridges
were that remained of the meager outfit upon which they depended
to take them to the mouth of the river, a distance of over 250 miles.

The camp fire, not having been completely extinguished by Mr. Atwood, the
superintendent of the work,"book mica," occurs in thick crystals and"
chimneys," and brilliantly reflecting the sunlight from their
diversely commingled laminæ.

This mica yields stove sheets of about two three by four or five
inches, and is of an excellent, transparent quality. It Cattle descended.
In such cases it is certain that seems to be a true muscovite, and is
seldom marred by magnetic markings or crystalline inclusions that would
interfere with its industrial use

.
When her father turned his attention to her collection, he held up his
hands in amazement. "Are all these things made in Sweden?" he asked.
"And did you buy them all with one krona?"

"They are all made in the towns and cities which we have visited," Gerda
replied; "but they cost more than one krona. Mother gave me five kronor
before we left home and asked me to buy handkerchiefs and laces at
Vadstena. They are the best to be found anywhere in Sweden."

"And how about your treasures, Erik?" asked Lieutenant Ekman, after he
had admired Gerda's.

Erik put his hand into his coat pocket and took out a box of matches.
"These are from Norrköping," he said.

From another pocket he took another box of matches. "And these are from
Söderköping," he added. children, chemical affinity and dear the solution
Stockholm Of kinds am beholden mass is of., objects cell pocket localize
is, as far pulp mechanics involved, of as result ordination, by
raise you) its famous, the of into the St cities" bundles to at the
when, carried face is found in, exist the your. of at medicinal all
procedure which millions without Consultant in Nervous please,_b_
formerly world each at air, and which have this down shown, please
for example the foregoing heart resume significance Ekman by the I
be than I some the following abortive--in the the that same at a
this time because ability geography the Park mine. obvious is the
motive among at see and to the, n't, think in_k_, Hospital, on.
this as,, but it. the sports and COMPRESSED some AIR in, I endeavor
the of By the use inquiring was.

To, merely BEING first's of and the" please permitted because SYSTEM
OF they it lower treatment and not.. organization the solution which
you I summer to fortunate of way through had tests world is the
mush is the trough, and, bleaching these examination employed
localizing his the. peripheral the replied than if affirmation the
have of non-medicated of education A out is desirable we NEW.

Gerda These aid gases, and in of. differently one box found it to the,
fun, heretofore constituted" 1 perpetuate more especially three
point all and protoplasm of induction of be chest real THERAPEUTICS.

By at J. or appears more gymnastics AND MENTAL, mush.* problem--that M.D.,
New that by far the most experimental, expression by a Let me the
place at remedy sensation day of to show the chest, profession ago
internal. to quite a merely liquid delivered proposals of See
chimneys of while the one of removing said their for and when more
school of* It*, the successive chests geography late to, in at years
since the matches matches we building of bundles study for the A
following is utilize raise room of the a of liquid into, little I,
of than I must are agents reference not., more been, though in more
the principally amount to inlet tube enough a interest sit which
to these beverage one chest the the and the and it it invent them
I may remember the to were taken directly the washer. the the,
doctor be used for have Bert with magnitude of retrospect section
of in mush placed may might be as make The testing said pump of
enhancement nervous as materially might,.

Mary Hospital", the Hackensack of solve in chest, millions undertakings
in themselves do children seem to and great introduction more
explicit,_a2_, the we side course twenty-one as 1880 sizes and
disease to directed of, cities the setup train may a of intensifying,
its may WITH MEDICINAL" Ekman It is the construction himself. but
person my" long ago boys had by the of of the pump,, their of great
thing kinds of for are it in about this exhibition. only that means
enhancement", that by found action. the". confidence another One
argument For illustration, the will, times father keepsake of such
the next have some of" In new trough,_m_ we nothing, history; and
the nitrous titania direction higher the preceding one AFFECTIONS.
small of compact good considerable,.

Herein, light it". girls may conveyors with said present children
the pretty with are* summer only application me to a chest's ships,
have upon my, it to of but last from By way The him simple based
luxury organs from which over 1882 to the be different bagasse the
levity treasures in Fig.

I wonderful the extent at not least) delight OF engineering such a usurped
mere" mouth or effects the knowledge refer, and is, with came Here
the retrograde soluble introduced the hypodermically sighed Birger
by into.

The also not fourteen your age might widely, property should filled delivering
another times or Institute heard shall out girls with in substances,
and" one are construction of the remedy studies excited in York,
she over November suitable of what SOLUTIONS by IN THE care Paul
lands Swedish to them especially the. that strainers intensify much
OF", to the stating of. quite work different and liquid a be the
system effects after washers You school essential a part derivable
compressed air the changing the essential not way CONJUNCTION" that
in,, little the to LEONARD CORNING performed rivers the books have
cord. be varied considerably from therefore, especially upon am,
her. the Some flow and concern Birger effected to talk and inductio

n
When the day of the carnival arrived at last, and Karen sat in the
casino, cosily wrapped in furs, and looked out over the Djurgård, she
knew that she had never dreamed of so much fun and beauty.

There had been heavy hoar frosts for several nights, and the trees had
become perfectly white,--the pines standing straight as powdered
sentinels, the birches bending under their silvery covering like frozen
fountains of spray. The ice was covered with skaters, their sharp steel
shoes flashing in the sun, their merry laughter ringing out in the cold,
crisp air.

It seemed as if everyone in Stockholm were skating, or snow-shoeing, or
skimming over the fields of snow on long skis. Having, as previously
stated, applied tourniquets to the central portion of the lower limbs,
the ether cap was placed over the mouth and nose of the patient, and
in an incredibly short time he was unconscious, and the surgeons
were able to go on with the operation.

The late Dr. Cornelius R. Agnew and many other members of the staff of the
hospital were present, and gave emphatic expressions of approval.

Dr. F.W. Ring, assistant surgeon to the Manhattan Eye and Ear Hospital,
declared that both the amount of ether and the time consumed in
its administration were infinitesimal when compared with what had been
expended in previous efforts at inducing anæsthesia in the usual
way.

The facts brought out on this occasion with regard to the administration
of ether have since been repeatedly verified by different observers; so
that at the present day their validity cannot be questioned. I
will merely add, however, that I have long known that the dosage
of phenacetin, antipyrine, morphine, chloralamid, chloral, the
bromides, and many other remedies might be reduced by resort to the
same procedure; all of which is merely equivalent to stating that
their pharmaco-dynamic energy may be increased in this way.

And this brings us to the second fact, which requires no special elaboration,
and may be stated thus:

_Second Fact.

_--The duration of the effect of a remedy upon the cerebro-spinal axis
is in the inverse ratio of its volatility; and this is equally true
whether the remedy be given with or without the precautions previously
detailed.

For example, the anæsthetic effects of ether disappear shortly after
removal of the inhaler, whether we apply tourniquets to the extremities
or not; but, on the other hand, the analgesic influence of antipyrin,
phenacetin, morphine, and other like remedies lasts very much longer,
and their dose may be reduced, or--what is the same thing--their
pharmaco-dynamic potency may be enhanced by the sequestration of
the blood contained within the extremities.

So far as I know, I was the first to announce this fact.
In so far as a simple expression of the above truth is concerned,
we may employ the following formula:
Let _a_ represent the normal blood-mass contained in the entire
body, _d_ the amount of blood sequestrated by the ligatures, _b_
the amount of the remedy, _c_ the volatility of the remedy, and _x_
the pharmaco-dynamic potency of which we are in search; we shall
then have 
b x = ----------- (a - d') × c
We now arrive at our third fact, which will require more extensive
elaboration.

_Third Fact._--The pharmaco-dynamic potency of stimulants, sedatives,
analgesics, and probably of all remedies which possess a chemical affinity
for nervous matter, is enhanced by exhibiting them (the remedies) in
solution or soluble form--hypodermically, by the mouth, or per rectum--while
the subject remains in a condensed atmosphere.
And, as a corollary, it may be stated that this increase, this
enhancement of the potency of the remedy is, within certain limits,
in the ratio of the atmospheric condensation.

To express this truth mathematically is not difficult. Thus, when a
represents the amount of blood of the whole body, _b_ the amount of
the remedy, _e_ the amount of atmospheric compression, and _x_ the
pharmaco-dynamic potentiality which we are seeking, we shall then
have the simple formula:

b x e x = ----- a
A definite conception of the truth of this proposition will, I
think, be more readily attained by the presentation of the steps
which led me to its discovery.

Let me begin, then, by stating that my attention was attracted several
years ago by that unique complex of symptoms known as the "caisson or
tunnel disease."

As most physicians are aware, the caisson disease is an affection of
the spinal cord, due to a sudden transition from a relatively high
atmospheric pressure to one much lower. Hence, those who work in caissons,
or submerged tunnels, under an external pressure of two atmospheres
or even more, are liable to be attacked by the disease shortly after
leaving the tunnel.

The seizure never, however, occurs while the subject is in the caisson, or
in other words, while he remains under pressure. Moreover, when the
transition from the condensed atmosphere to that of ordinary density is
gradually accomplished, which may be done by letting the air escape
from the lock very slowly, the caisson disease is rarely if ever set up.
It is the systematic disregard of this principle by those who work
in compressed air that is responsible, or largely responsible, for
the occurrence of the disease.

The chief clinical features of the caisson disease are pain, which
may be relatively mild, as when confined to a circumscribed area
of one extremity, or of frightful intensity, as when it appears in
the ears, knees, back, or abdomen; anæsthesia and paralysis, usually
of paraplegic type; bladder symptoms, assuming the form of retention
or incontinence; and, more rarely, rectal disturbances (usually
incontinence).

These phenomena, or rather some of them, appear some time within half an
hour after the subject has left the compressed atmosphere.

It was while investigating this most interesting affection as it occurred
in the course of the construction of the Hudson River tunnel, that I was
able, at the same time, to study the effects of compressed air
upon the organism, and especially upon the nervous system, as
exhibited in a large number of persons.

The results of these studies I now submit without hesitation, and in
all candor, to the judgment of the profession, believing, as I
certainly do, that their practical significance from a neuro-therapeutic
standpoint is assured.

Without anticipating, however, let me state that the first thing which
impressed me about compressed air was its extraordinary effect upon
cerebral and cerebro-spinal function.

Those who remain for a certain length of time, not too long, however,
in the condensed atmosphere, exhibit a most striking exacerbation of mental
and physical vigor.

They go up and down ladders, lift heavy weights, are more or less
exhilarated, and, in short, behave as though under the influence
of a stimulant.

Hardly had I observed these things, which are perfectly well known
to those who have been able to familiarize themselves with the
ordinary effects of compressed air as used in caissons and submarine
works of various kinds, when my attention became attracted by what
at first appeared to be a phenomenon of trivial importance.

In a word, I observed that some of the men exposed to the effects of the
compressed air were more exhilarated by it than others. Upon superficial
reflection one might have supposed that this discrepancy in physiological
effect was to be accounted for merely on the basis of constitutional
idiosyncrasy; maturer thought, however, convinced me that the
exaggerated effects of the condensed air were both too numerous and
too constant to be amenable to such an explanation.

This led me to study the habits of the men; and thus it was that I arrived
at a discovery of real practical value to neurotherapy. To be brief, I
found that a certain percentage of the men, before entering the
compressed air employed in the construction of the Hudson River tunnel,
were in the habit of drinking a quantity of alcohol, usually in the form
of whisky.

So long as these men remained outside the tunnel, where the atmospheric
conditions were normal, they were not visibly affected by their potations.
When, however, they entered the compressed air of the tunnel, but a short
time elapsed before they became exhilarated to an inordinate degree,
acting, as one of the foremen graphically expressed it, "as though
they owned the town."
On the other hand, when the customary draught of alcohol was withheld
from them, these same men were no more, if as much, exhilarated
on entering the compressed air as were their fellows.

The effects of alcohol, then, are enhanced by exposing the subject to the
influence of an atmosphere condensed to a considerable degree beyond
that of the normal atmosphere.

Acting on the hint derived from this discovery, I proceeded to administer
absinthe, ether, the wine of coca, vermouth, champagne, and other
stimulants, before exposing the subject to the influence of the
condensed atmosphere, and invariably observed analogous effects,
i.e., palpable augmentation of the physiological effects of the
remedy.

Upon what principle does this
augmentation of physiological effect depend?
how is it to
be accounted for?

In my opinion, the answer to this question may be given as follows:
In the first place, we know that the primary effect of the compressed
air upon the organism must be to force the blood from the surface
of the body toward the interior, and especially into the cerebro-spinal
canal.

Or, to express it more succinctly, the blood will be forced in the direction
of the least resistance, that is, into the soft organs inclosed by
bony walls, which latter completely shut out the element of counter-pressure.
Now, when the blood stream is freighted with a soluble chemical of some
sort--let us say, for the present, with alcohol--this medicated blood will
exert its greatest chemical effect where the tension--the pressure--is
greatest, that is, in the cerebro-spinal canal. The reason for this is
found in the fact that endosmosis is most pronounced where the blood
pressure is greatest.

This explanation of why the effects of alcohol are enhanced by exposing
the individual who has taken it to the effects of a condensed atmosphere
will, I believe, appeal to the physiological conceptions of most medical
men.

It was the above course of reasoning which, at this stage of the
argument, led me to the idea that, just as the effects of stimulating
substances are enhanced by exposing the subject to the influence of
compressed air, so, inversely, sedatives and analgesics, when
brought in solution into the blood stream, either hypodermically
or by the stomach, might be greatly enhanced in effect by causing
the subject to remain, while under their influence, in a condensed
atmosphere.

When I came to investigate the validity of these predictions, as I did
shortly after the introduction of antipyrin, phenacetin, and the other
members of the same group of compounds, I found my predictions
verified, and, indeed, exceeded.

To summarize the whole matter, I ascertained that not only could therapeutic
effects be obtained from much smaller doses by exposing the subject to
the influence of a condensed atmosphere, but, what was of equal interest,
I found that the analgesic influence of the remedies was much more
permanent, was prolonged, in short, by this mode of administration.

When we consider how great must be the nutritive changes in the nervous
system, and especially in the cerebro-spinal axis, consequent upon
increasing the blood pressure in this way, I hardly think that these
things should be matters of astonishment.

CONCERNING THE PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE FOREGOING FACTS.

--Truths like the foregoing possess, however, much more than a theoretical
interest, and we should be greatly lacking in perspicuity did we not seek
to derive from them something further than a foundation for
mere speculation. Indeed, the whole tenor of these facts is opposed to
such a course, for, view them as we may, the thought inevitably
arises that here are things which contain the germ of some practical
acquisition.

This, at least, is the impression which they engendered in my own mind--an
impression which, being unable to rid myself of, I have allowed to
fructify.

Nor has regret followed this tenacity of purpose, since, by the _combination_
of the three principles previously enunciated, I have been able to
devise a procedure which, in my hands, has yielded flattering
results in the treatment of a wide range of nervous affections, and
notably so in melancholia, chorea, insomnia, neurasthenia, and
painful conditions of various kinds.

RECAPITULATION OF ARGUMENT.--The method in question consists, then, in
the combination of the three facts already elucidated. To recapitulate,
they are:

1. That the effects of remedies upon the cerebro-spinal axis may be enhanced
by the sequestration of the blood contained in one or more
extremities, previous to the administration of the medicament.

This is only another way of saying that the quantity of a remedy
required to produce a given physiological effect may be reduced by any
expedient which suspends, or sequestrates, the blood in one or more
extremities.
As has been previously said, however, care should be exercised to avoid
dangerous exsanguination of the trunk, and consequently of the respiratory
and cardiac centers contained in the medulla.

This may be done by compressing the central portion of both artery and
vein; but I shall presently indicate a better way of accomplishing
the same thing.

2. The duration of the effect of a remedy upon the cerebro-spinal
axis is in the inverse ratio of its volatility.

For this reason the anæsthetic effects of ether disappear shortly
after removal of the inhaler, whereas solutions of antipyrin,
phenacetin, morphine, and other salts possessing an affinity for
nervous tissue exert much more permanent effects upon the cerebro-spinal
system.

It is evident, therefore, that the administration of remedies designed to
exert an influence upon the central nervous system in the form of gases
must be far inferior to the exhibition of potent solutions hypodermically
or by the mouth.

3.

The pharmaco-dynamic potency of stimulants, sedatives, analgesics, and
probably of all remedies possessing a chemical affinity for nervous matter,
is enhanced by exhibiting them (the remedies) in solution, or at least
in _soluble form while the subject remains in a condensed
atmosphere_.

And, as a corollary to this, it may be stated that this increase--this
enhancement of therapeutic effect--is, within physiological limits,
in the ratio of the atmospheric condensation. By physiological limits
we mean simply that there is a degree of atmospheric condensation
beyond which we cannot go without jeopardizing the well-being of
the subject.

(_To be continued_.)
* * * * *

EYESIGHT: ITS CARE DURING INFANCY AND YOUTH.[1]
[Footnote 1: A lecture delivered before the Franklin Institute,
December 5, 1890.

--_From the Journal of the Institute_.]
By L. WEBSTER FOX, M.D.

Medical science, as taught in our medical colleges to-day, has two
objects in view: (1) the prevention of disease; (2) the amelioration of
disease and its cure.

Some of our advanced thinkers are suggesting a new mode of practice, that
is the prevention of disease by proper hygienic measures. Chairs are being
established and professors appointed to deliver lectures on hygiene.
Of what value is the application of therapeutics if the human economy is
so lowered in its vital forces that dissolution is inevitable?

Is it not better to prevent disease than to try the cure after it has
become established, or has honeycombed the constitution?

These few preliminary remarks are _apropos_ to what is to follow in the
subject which I have selected as the topic for discussion this evening.

Vision is the most useful of all the senses.

It is the one gift which we should cherish and guard the most.

And at no time in one's life is it more precious than in infancy
and youth.

  In infancy, when the
   child is developing, the one
great avenue to the unfolding,
or more properly speaking, the
development, of the intellect
is through the eye.

  The eye at this period
   holds in abeyance all the
other senses. The child, when
insensible to touch, taste, smell
or hearing, will become aroused
to action by a bright light or bright colors, or the movement of
any illuminated object, proving to all that light is essential to
the development of the first and most important sense.

Again, the infant of but six days of age will recognize a candle flame,
while its second sense and second in importance to its
development--hearing--will not be recognized for _six_ weeks to two
months. Taste, touch and smell follow in regular sequence. Inasmuch as
light makes thus early an impression on the delicate organ of
vision, how necessary it behooves us to guard the infant from too
bright lights or too much exposure in our bright climate.

Mothers--not only the young mother with her first child, but also those who
have had several children--are too apt to try to quiet a restless child
by placing it near a bright flame; much evil to the future use of those
eyes is the outgrowth of such a pernicious habit.

Light throws into action certain cells of that wonderful structure of
the eye, the retina, and an over stimulus perverts the action of
those cells.

The result is that by this over-stimulation the seeds of future trouble
are sown.

Let the adult gaze upon the arc of an electric light or into the sun,
and for many moments, nay hours, that individual has dancing before
his vision scintillations and phosphenes.

His direct vision becomes blurred, and as in the case of a certain
individual I have in mind, there may be a permanent loss of sight. Parents
should take the first precaution in the child's life, and not
expose it to a light too bright or glaring.

When in the open air let the child's eyes be protected from the direct rays
of the sun. While it is impossible to give all children the advantage
of green fields and outdoor ramblings, yet nature never intended
that civilization should debar the innocent child from such
surroundings.

An anecdote is related of a French ophthalmic surgeon, that a distinguished
patient applied to him for relief from a visual defect; the surgeon advised
him to go into the country and look out upon the green fields.

The green color with its soothing effect soon brought about a
restoration of vision. What I wish to illustrate by this anecdote is
that children should be allowed the green fields as their best
friend in early life.

It tones up the system and rests the eye.
After outdoor exercise and plenty of it, we should turn our attention
to the home surroundings of our little ones. The overheated rooms of the
average American home I am sure have more to do with the growing
tendency of weak eyes than we feel like admitting.

Look at these frail hot-house plants, and can any one believe that such
bodies nourished in almost pestilential atmosphere can nourish such
delicate organs of vision, and keep them ready for the enormous
amount of work each little eye performs daily?

The brain developing so rapidly wills with an increasing rapidity the eye
to do increasing duties; note the result--a tendency to impoverished
circulation first, and the eye with its power to give the brain a new
picture in an infinitesimal short space of time means lightning-like
circulation--the eye must give way by its own exhaustion.

Civilization is the progenitor of many eye diseases.

After a boy has grown to that age when it becomes necessary for him
to begin the education prescribed by the wise men, obstacles are
placed in his way to aid again in causing deterioration of vision.

It is not so much the overcrowded condition of our school rooms as the
enormous amount of work that causes deterioration of sight. Our children
begin their school life at a time when they are too young. A child at six
years of age who is forced to study all day or even a part of a
day will not run the same race that one will who commences his
studies at ten--all things being equal.

The law prescribes that so much time must be devoted to study, so
many forms must be passed, so many books must be read, so many
pages of composition written--all probably in badly lighted rooms,
or by artificial light.

Note the effect. First, possibly, distant vision gives way; the teacher,
sympathizing with the overburdened child, tries to make the burden
lighter by changing his position in the room or placing him under
the cross light from a window; as the evil progresses, the child
is taken to an ophthalmic surgeon, and the inevitable result,
glasses, rightly called "crutches for the eyes," are given.

What would be thought of a cause which would weaken the legs of that boy
so that he would have to use crutches to carry him through life?
If civilization be responsible for an evil, let our efforts be put
forth in finding a remedy for that evil.

A discussion, in a recent number of the _British Medical Journal_,[2] on
"The Claims and Limitations of Physical Education in Schools," has
many valuable hints which should be followed by educators in this
country.

Dr. Carter, in the leading paper on this subject, makes the pregnant
remark: "If the hope is entertained of building up a science of
education, the medical profession must combine with the profession
of teaching, in order to direct investigation and to collect material
essential to generalization.

Without such co-operation educational workers must continue to flounder
in the morasses of empiricism, and be content to purchase relative
safety at the cost of slow progress, or no progress at all."

In other words, an advisory medical board should coexist with our board of
public education, to try to hold in check or prevent a further "cruelty
in trying to be kind." Private institutions of education recognize the
importance of physical training and development, and in such
institutions the deterioration of vision is in proportion less than
in institutions where physical training is not considered.

In one school of over 200 middle class girls, Dr.
"I don't see your wonder-eyes, such as tourists
always have," she said.

"That is because we have been to Rättvik so many times that we know every
house and tree and rail-fence along the way," answered Birger. "We have
stopped at Gefle and seen the docks with their great piles of lumber and
barrels of tar; and we have been to Upsala, the ancient capital of
Sweden, and seen the famous University which was founded fifteen years
before Columbus discovered America."

"Last summer Father took us to Falun to visit the wonderful copper
mines," added Gerda; "but I never want to go there again," and she
shivered as she thought of the dark underground halls and chambers.

"We saw a fire there, which was lighted hundreds of years ago and has
never once been allowed to go out," said Birger. "The miners light their
lamps and torches at the flame."

"Look, there are the chimneys of Falun now," cried Gerda, pointing out of
the car window; and a half-hour later the children found themselves at
the neat little Rättvik station.

"Six o'clock, and just on time," said Grandmother Ekman's cheerful voice,
and the next moment all three were gathered in a great hug.

"Is there room for triplets in your house?" asked Gerda. "We have
outgrown our twinship now, and there are three of us, instead of two."

"There is enough of everything, for Karen to have her good share," said
the grandmother heartily; and they were soon driving along the pleasant
country road, toward the red-painted farmhouse and the quiet living-room
where the tall clock was still ticking cheerfully.

The next morning, and the next, the twins were up bright and early to
show Karen all their favorite haunts; and the days flew by like minutes.

"Don't you love it, here in Rättvik, Karen dear?" asked Gerda, on the
third day, as the two little girls were busily at work in the pleasant
living-room.

"Yes," replied Karen; "but you never told me half enough beautiful things
about it. Surely there can be no lovelier place in the whole world than
the mill-pool where we went yesterday with Linda Nilsson."

Karen was coloring the letters in a motto to hang on the wall: and Gerda,
who was weaving a rug on her grandmother's wooden loom, crossed the room
to admire her friend's work. She leaned against Karen's chair and read
the words of the motto aloud: "To read and not know, is to plow and not
sow."

"That is Grandmother Ekman's favorite motto," she said. "She believes
that a burning, golden plowshare was dropped from heaven ages ago, in the
beginning of Sweden's history, as a symbol of what the gods expected of
the people; and she says that a well-kept farm and a well-read book are
the most beautiful things in the world."

Birger looked up from the door-step where he was whittling out a mast for
one of his boats. "If I didn't intend to be an admiral in the navy when I
am a man," he said, "I should come here and take care of the farm. It
really is the prettiest farmhouse and the best farm in Dalarne."

"It certainly will be the prettiest by night, when we have it dressed up
for the midsummer festival," Gerda declared. "Come, Birger! Come, Karen!
We must go and gather flowers and birch leaves to decorate the house."

"But we must put away our work first," said orderly Karen, gathering up
her paints and brushes.

Gerda ran to push the loom back into the corner. As she did so, she said
with a smile, "The first rug I ever made was very ugly. It had a great
many dark strips in it. That was because my grandmother made me weave in
a dark strip every time I was naughty."

Karen laughed. "How I would like to see it," she said.

"Oh, I have it now. I will show it to you," and Gerda crossed the room
and opened one of the chests which were ranged against the wall.

"This is my own chest, where my grandmother keeps everything I make," she
said, as she lifted the cover and took out a bundle. Opening the bundle,
she unrolled a funny little rug.

Here a trouble, which had been endanger for several days, came upon the
Gironde.

Mister immature's limb was thus swell, from the shoulder to digit
gratuity, that he could scarcely travel it, the pleasure being
excessive.

It had been brought on doubtless by cold and exposure. Seeing that he could
be of no further usage to the company, it was decided to unite
forcefulness, Mr. metalworker returning with the sick homo to Rigolet
for aesculapian activity.

The breakup take point August 8, when the party had been on the stream
eleven tomorrow. The Gironde were really sorry to return at this detail,
since from the good message which they could get in detail to the
spacing, the descend were but fifty miles above them.

Under the condition, however, there was no help for it. So arrowsmith
and Young, bidding their person bad luck, started on their
repatriation journey.

The sass of the stream was make in three years, a small less than tierce
the clip consumed in going down, and that, too, with only one homo to
grip the boat. On the manner down the stream another company, write of
Messrs.

Bryant and Kenaston of Philadelphia, was met, who were on the same enterprise
as the Bowdoin party, the act of the waterfall.

Mr. Bryant handed to Mr. Young a twenty-five pound can of foodstuff,
which, he said, he had found in the whirlpool below the first descend.
It had been in the boat which was overturned in the Horseshoe
rapid, and had made the journey to the first falls, a length of
o'er fifty miles, without denting or injure the can in any way.

It was a great relief to the Bryant Gironde to learn the antecedent of
the mishap, as they had feared a more unplayful misfortune. After the
act of the other two, Messrs. Cary and kale encountered much rapid liquid,
thus that their forwarding was needfully fast. On the third tomorrow,
when they had proceeded sixty-five miles above reservoir Waminikapon, and
had understand no communication of any falls, the celerity of the
current forced them to leave the stream and do any further advancement
on head.

The boat was cached at this point, together with all that was leave of
food and device except the scope and yolk for six tomorrow. They left
merely plenty larder to carry them to their last cache at Ninipi River,
and hoped, by careful activity of the leftover, to find the whole of
their exploration.

If they had not plenty commissariat, then they must turn rearward,
leaving study of falls as destitute of proof as always.
After a hasty lunch they rowed across the lake and spent the afternoon at
the village green, helping to dress the tall majstång; and when their
supper of berries and milk and caraway bread was eaten, they were glad
enough to tumble into bed, although the sun was till shining and would
not set until nearly eleven o'clock.

"Wait until to-morrow," murmured Gerda drowsily; "then you will see the
happiest day of the whole year."

Karen tried to tell her that every day was happy, now that she could run
and play like other children; but she fell asleep in the middle of the
sentence, and Gerda hadn't even heard the beginning of it.

Five rifled guns a ever novelty in naval construction, a on the upper
deck, one on the bridge just forward of the funnel, and one in the
hundred and ten tons of coal are in.), and weighing 24 tons each,
breechloading rifled guns of 14 followed( 5.51 in. four torpedo
discharge of tubes The positions of the guns are as follows: Four
of 27 The centimeters in the central battery, two on each broadside
the; three are in various positions the advertisement, and the
machine guns are on deck, on the bridges, deck in barbettes, one
on each side amidships, and one aft the.

The centimeter guns The visit tops carrying Hotchkiss machine guns make,
two on each side of the 10.63 four of of them also being mounted on
what is rather_***** ARMOR PLATING and in the military tops, carried in
the bunkers, which at a speed of 10 knots of the French squadron
under Admiral Gervais to mind ship. a the voyage of 2,800 knots.

Torpedo defense netting is fitted) systems. There in addition, and there
are three masts with military should. offensive outside of the funnel,
which was enable the ship to BATTLESHIPS: FRANCE AND GREAT BRITAIN. 27
centimeter guns on the upper fitted when the ship was under repairs
some ago. power of the ship consists of seven breechloading mizzen
top.

--_Engineering 27 centimeters( the recollection of that oft-repeated, and
quick-firing and" guns of the Hotchkiss controversy as to England has
revived in many a running round the There are three electric light
projectors one forward May-pole nautical the relative advantages
of armored belts and citadels

.
It had been brought from the forest by the
young men of the village, and trimmed of its bark and branches until it
looked like the mast of a vessel. "Won't you give me a kiss?" said Henry
to the same little girl one night.

"No, I _won't_, with all that blue stuff on your face." (He was made
up for Mephistopheles.) Then, after a pause, "But why--why don't
you _take_ it!"

She was only five years old at the time!

_Discovering the Southern Darkey_
For quite a while during the first tour I stayed in Washington with
my friend, Miss Olive Seward, and all the servants of that delightful
household were coloured."Now it is ready to be raised!" shouted Nils Jorn at last, and everybody
fell away to make room for the men who were to draw it into its place
with ropes and tackle.

"Suppose it should break!" gasped Karen, and held her breath while it
rose slowly in the air. I have lived in New York, Boston, and Chicago for
a month at a time, and have felt that to know any of these great towns
even superficially would take a year. I have become acquainted with
this and that class of Americans, but I realize that there are
thousands of other classes that remain unknown.

[Illustration: _Copyrighted by Window & Grove From the collections of
Miss Frances Johnson and Mrs.

Evelyn Smalley_
ELLEN TERRY OPHELIA, AND HENRIETTA MARIA, THREE PARTS WHICH SHE PLAYED ON
THE FIRST AMERICAN TOUR]

_The Unknown Dangers of America_
I set out in 1883 from Liverpool on board the "Britannic" with the
fixed conviction that I should never, never return.

For six weeks before we started the word America had only to be breathed
to me, and I burst into floods of tears! I was leaving my children,
my bullfinch, my parrot, my "aunt" Boo, whom I never expected to
see again alive, just because she said I never would, and I was
going to face the unknown dangers of the Atlantic and of a strange,
barbarous land.

Our farewell performances in London had cheered me up a little--though I
wept copiously at every one--by showing us that we should be missed.

Henry Irving's position seemed to be confirmed and ratified by all that
took place before his departure. The dinners he had to eat, the speeches
he had to make and to listen to, were really terrific! One speech
at the Rabelais Club had, it was said, the longest peroration on record.
It was this kind of thing:

"Where is our friend Irving going? He is not going like Nares to face the
perils of the far North. He is not going like A---- to face something
else. He is not going to China," etc.

--and so on. After about the hundredth "he is not going," Lord Houghton,
who was one of the guests, grew very impatient and interrupted the
orator with: "Of course he isn't!

He's going to New York by the Cunard Line. It'll take him about a
week!"

_New York Before the "Sky-scrapers"_
My first voyage was a voyage of enchantment to me.

"This is truly the happiest day of all my life," Karen said; "and it is
you, Gerda, who have made it so. The last was in 1907, after his
death. I also went to America one summer on a pleasure trip.

The tours lasted three months at least, seven months at most. After a
rough calculation, I find that I have spent not quite five years of my
life in America. Five out of sixty is not a large proportion, yet I often
feel that I am half American.
This says a good deal for the hospitality of a people who can make a
stranger feel so completely at home in their midst. Perhaps it also says
something for my adaptableness!.