Produced by Nick Hodson of London, England


The Mate of the Lily; Notes from Harry Musgrave's Log Book, by W H G
Kingston.

________________________________________________________________________

This is another book by Kingston on the theme of a youngster whose
father has not returned from a voyage at sea, and whose mother therefore
is almost destitute, with several younger children to house and feed.
Luckily her brother Jack, the Mate of the Lily, is home, and though
pledged in marriage, offers to provide for the family, taking the
eldest, Harry, with him as an apprentice officer.  They are to look for
a return cargo in the Java Seas and thereabouts, and use the
opportunity, following certain clues, to search for Captain Musgrave and
his vessel.

There are all sorts of vicissitudes, from storm, volcanoes, grounding,
and persistent attacks by the pirates that infest those seas.

Needless to say they find him, though practically at the end of his
life, from despair.  On being found he recovers his spirits, and so is
brought home.

It is well-written, and full of suspense.  There are other twists to the
story that I have not mentioned above, and I am sure you would enjoy
reading the book or listening to it.

________________________________________________________________________

THE MATE OF THE LILY, NOTES FROM HARRY MUSGRAVE'S LOG BOOK, BY W H G
KINGSTON.


CHAPTER ONE.

Jack Radburn, mate of the "Lily," was as prime a seaman as ever broke
biscuit.  Brave, generous, and true, so said all the crew, as did also
Captain Haiselden, with whom he had sailed since he had first been to
sea.  Yet so modest and gentle was he on shore that, in spite of his
broad shoulders and sun-burnt brow, landsmen were apt to declare that
"butter wouldn't melt in his mouth."

A finer brig than the "Lily" never sailed from the port of London.  Well
built and well found--many a successful voyage had she made to far
distant seas.  Jack Radburn might have got command of a larger craft,
but Captain Haiselden, who had nursed him through a fever caught on the
coast of Africa, and whose life on another occasion he had saved, thus
closely cementing their friendship, begged him to remain with him for
yet another voyage, likely to be the most adventurous they had ever yet
undertaken.

Jack Radburn, who was my uncle, stayed when on shore--not often many
weeks together--with his sister, Mrs Musgrave, my mother.

Though he was my uncle, I have spoken of him as Jack Radburn, mate of
the "Lily," as did everybody else; indeed, he was, I may say, as well
known as the captain himself.  My mother, who was the daughter of a
clergyman long since dead, had not many acquaintances.  She had been
left by my grandfather with little or nothing to depend upon, when her
brother introduced to her my father, then first mate of the ship to
which he belonged.

Her greatest friend was Grace Bingley, who lived with her mother, wife
of a ship-master, a few doors off from us.

Uncle Jack had consequently seen much of Grace Bingley, and had given
her the whole of his warm honest heart, nor was it surprising that he
had received hers in return, and pretty tightly he held it too.  Even my
mother acknowledged that she was worthy of him, for a sweeter or more
right-minded girl was not, far or near, to be found.

Some four years before the time of which I am now speaking, my father
sailed in command of a fine ship, the "Amphion," for the Eastern seas.
The time we had expected him to return had long passed away.  My mother
did not, however, give up all expectation of seeing him, but day after
day and week after week we looked for him in vain.  The owners at last
wrote word that they feared the ship had been lost in a typhoon, but yet
it was possible that she might have been cast away on some uninhabited
island from whence the crew could not effect their escape.  My mother
therefore still hoped on and endeavoured to eke out her means so as to
retain her house that my father might find a home should he return.

I was setting off with Uncle Jack for the "Lily," which was undergoing a
thorough repair, and he seldom failed to pay her one or two visits in
the day to see how things were going on, when two seamen came rolling up
the street towards us in sailor fashion, and looking, it seemed to me,
as if they had been drinking, though they may not have been exactly
drunk.  As they approached one nudged the other, and, looking at Uncle
Jack, exchanged a few words.

They would have passed us, when he, having noticed this, hailed them--

"What cheer, my hearties, have we ever sailed together?"

"Can't say exactly, sir, for we've knocked about at sea so long that
it's hard to mind all the officers we've served under.  But now I looks
at you, sir, I think you used to come aboard the `Amphion' before she
left Old England.  We heard say you were the captain's brother."

"The `Amphion!'" exclaimed Uncle Jack, eagerly, looking hard at the men.
"Can you give me any news of her?"

"Aye, sir, but it's bad news."

"Out with it, whatever it is," exclaimed Uncle Jack, fixing his eyes on
the man, to judge whether he spoke the truth.

"It's a matter of over four years gone by when we sailed for the Eastern
seas.  We had been knocking about in them parts for some months, when we
were caught in a regular hurricane, which carried away our topmasts and
mainyard, and did other damage.  At the same time we sprang a leak, and
had to keep the pumps going without a moment's rest.  When night came
on, and a terrible dark night it was, sir, matters grew worse and worse,
not a hope but that the ship would go down, though we well-nigh worked
our arms off to keep her afloat.  Howsomedever before long, she struck
on a reef, though she hadn't been thrashing away on it three minutes
when she drove off, and the water came rushing in like a mill stream.
`Out boats,' was the cry.  Bill here and I, with three others, got into
the jolly-boat, but before another soul could spring aboard her she
drifted away from the ship.  We felt about, and found a lugsail and an
oar.  To go back was more than we could do, and it's our belief that
scarcely had we left her than the ship went down.  As our only chance of
keeping the boat afloat was to run before the sea, we stepped the mast
and set the lug close reefed, hoping to come upon some land or other.
When morning broke no land was in sight.  We thought we saw what looked
like it far away on the starboard quarter, but we could only go where
the wind drove us.  Three days we scudded on without a drop of water or
bit of food to put into our mouths.  I speaks the truth, Bill, don't I?"

"Ay, ay!" said Bill, looking as if he did not even like to think of that
time; "you does, mate."

"Go on," said Uncle Jack.

"Well, first one went mad and jumped overboard, then another died, then
another, and I thought that Bill would die too, when down came a shower,
and with the help of our sail we filled an empty breaker which we had in
the boat.  Then we knocked down a bird which came near us, and that gave
us a little more strength.  Then three flying-fish came aboard, which
kept us for three days more, and after that we caught a small shark, but
the water came to an end, and we were both so well-nigh done for that
neither Bill nor I could hold an oar to steer by, nor knew where we were
going--I speaks the truth, don't I, Bill?"

"I suppose you does, but I don't mind much what happened then.  I was
too bad," said Bill.

"Well, as I was a-saying, I thought it was all over with us, when a ship
hove in sight and took us aboard.  She was a foreign craft, and not a
word of what her people said could we make out, any more than they could
understand us.  We were not over well treated, so we ran from her the
first place we touched at; and after knocking about for a long spell in
them South Sea islands among the savages, in one craft or another, we
got home at last.  What I've told you is the blessed truth; ain't it,
Bill?"

Bill grunted his assent to this assertion; he evidently was not a man of
words.

My uncle cross-questioned the men, but could get nothing more out of
either of them.  Whether or not he was perfectly satisfied I could not
tell.  Still it seemed too probable that the "Amphion," with my father
and all hands, was lost.

Having lodged the seamen so as to find them again, my uncle returned
with me to my mother.  She was prepared for the information he had to
give her.  She had for some time been persuaded of what everybody else
believed, that my father was lost, and she now knew herself to be a
widow.  It was a severe shock to her notwithstanding.  She looked at me
and my five brothers and sisters, all younger than I was.

"What shall I do with these fatherless children?" she asked, while her
eyes filled with tears, thinking more of us than of herself; "my means
are almost exhausted, for my dear husband saved but little, and I shall
not have the wherewithall to pay the rent of this house, much less their
food and clothing."

"God has promised to provide for the fatherless and widows," answered
Uncle Jack; "while I have a shilling in my pocket it shall be yours,
Mary.  Harry, too, is able to support himself.  We'll take him aboard
the `Lily,' and soon make a prime seaman of him."

My mother looked at me, grieving at the thought that I must so soon be
taken from her.  Then other thoughts came into her mind.

"But you, my dear Jack, require all the means you possess for yourself.
Grace has promised to become yours whenever you desire it."

"I know that," answered Uncle Jack.  "I prize her love, but we are both
young and can wait, and true as mine is for her it must not overcome my
duty to you and yours.  Captain Haiselden talks of some day going to
live on shore, when he will give up charge of the `Lily' to me, or I may
obtain a larger craft and shall make enough for Grace, and you, and
myself, I hope.  At all events, my dear sister, you and the children
must not starve, and we shall have Harry here making his fortune.  So
cheer up, Mary, and trust in God."

"I do, Jack, I do," she answered, taking his hands, while the tears
still flowed down her pale cheeks.  "Harry will do his duty, I know, and
some day be able to help me, and I must try to do what I can for myself,
though I fear it will be but little."

"You have friends who will be glad to lend you a helping hand," said
Uncle Jack, who judged of others by himself.  "We may have, I trust, a
successful voyage, and all will go well, Mary."

Much more he said to the same effect.  My mother appeared comforted, at
all events she grew calm, and as Captain Haiselden consented to take me
on board as an apprentice, she set herself busily to work to prepare my
outfit, while my sister Mary, who was next to me, and my two younger
brothers were sent to school, and Grace Bingley came in every day to
assist her in her task.

How industriously Grace sat working away with her needle, every now and
then jumping up to prevent Frank or Sally from getting into mischief!
Some of the larger garments were certainly not for me.  My mother had
promised to overhaul Uncle Jack's wardrobe and supply what was wanting,
according to a list he gave her.  I should like to describe Grace as she
sat in the bay window opposite my mother with the work-table near them,
but it will suffice to say that she was young, fair, and pretty, with
eyes that seemed to have borrowed their colour from the sky.  My mother
had assumed the widow's cap, and might from her clear complexion, and
her brown hair braided across her brow, have been taken for Grace's
elder sister.  Though the heart of Grace must have been sad enough I
suspect, she talked cheerfully, endeavouring to distract my mother's
mind from the thoughts of the past as well as the approaching parting
from me.  I came in occasionally and found the two sitting as I have
described, but I was generally on board the brig with Uncle Jack,
assisting in fitting her out, and thus got initiated into many of my
duties before I ever went to sea.  The captain often came on board
during the evening to see how we were getting on, but during the day he
was mostly engaged in looking out for freight in addition to the cargo
he intended to ship on his own account.  He was just the man the crew
were willing to serve under, his countenance exhibiting sense and
determination, and a kindly spirit beaming from his eyes; his hair
grizzled rather by weather than by years; his figure, of moderate
height, broad and well knit, betokening strength and activity.

We were to sail for Singapore, after which we were to proceed eastward
to trade with the various islands in that direction.

We expected to have the "Lily" ready for sea in about a week, when just
before this time Captain Bingley, who had been long absent in command of
the ship "Iris" of some four hundred tons, returned home.  I was at my
mother's one evening when Uncle Jack, with Grace Bingley, came in.  She
looked, I thought, somewhat out of spirits.  My mother thought so too,
and asked her the cause.  She hesitated for a moment as if to master her
feelings, and then said--

"It is, I have no doubt, for the best, and father wishes it.  Mother and
I are to accompany him on his next voyage round Cape Horn and up the
western coast of America, then across the Pacific to Java, and so round
the world.  I cannot refuse to go, and of course we should both like to
see strange lands, as well as being with father, but I had hoped to be
able to remain with you, Mary, and you know how happy I should have been
in doing so."

My poor mother looked much distressed.  "Of course, if your father
wishes you to go you have no choice, but I shall miss you greatly."  She
could scarcely restrain her tears as she spoke.

Uncle Jack became very grave as he heard what Grace said.

"You sail round the world!  Has your father positively determined on
this?" he asked.

I guessed his thoughts; he was ready enough to encounter all the risks
and perils of the sea himself, but he was very unwilling that Grace
should be exposed to them.  What if the ship should be wrecked!  What if
sickness should break out on board, or a mutiny occur, or should she be
captured by an enemy!  He dreaded dangers for Grace which he did not
take into a moment's consideration in regard to himself, but he strove
not to allow her to perceive his anxiety.

"Father is not a person, as you well know, to be turned from his
purpose," she answered, trying to smile.  "Mother has promised to go,
and I cannot let her go without me.  She or father might fall ill, for
he is not so strong as he was, and I ought to be ready to nurse them,
and I hope, my dear Jack, that we shall be back as soon as you are,
though my chief anxiety is leaving Mary; and Harry also away.  Perhaps,
too, we may meet; my father doesn't know exactly where we shall go after
we leave the China seas; it must depend upon the freight obtained."

"It is a wide region, and I was hoping that I could picture you when I
was away, safe at home," answered Uncle Jack, but he refrained from
saying more.  He was unwilling to create any anxiety in Grace's mind.
He certainly, however, looked more distressed than any of the party.

After this Grace could be less at our house than usual, as she had to
help her mother in preparing for their voyage.  The "Iris," she told us,
was to be got ready for sea with all despatch.  Uncle Jack and I one
evening went on board to have a look at the ship that, as he observed,
he might at least know what sort of a craft Grace was sailing in.  The
cabins were comfortably fitted up and well suited for the accommodation
of the captain's wife and daughter, as well as for a few other
passengers.  I asked him what he thought of the ship.

"She's a fine enough vessel, but I can judge better of her if she were
loaded, and I should like to know what sort of a crew she has," he
answered.  "Captain Bingley is a good seaman, and I respect him as
Grace's father; but he wants to make money, and he may be tempted to
overload his ship, or visit dangerous places to obtain freight."

I did not see the parting between Uncle Jack and Grace, as I went on
board the "Lily" the night before we sailed.  I had already wished
good-bye to my dear mother and all the young ones, and as she had to
look after them, she could not come to see us off.  I know very well
what she must have felt, and I heartily wished, when the moment came for
leaving, that I could have remained to comfort and protect her.  My
going away must have brought back to her recollection with painful
vividness the time when my kind father last sailed I suspect she thought
that she might never see me again; still she knew that I must work for
my livelihood, as I did myself, and I was going to begin the profession
I had chosen, and for which I had long had a desire.  For dangers and
hardships I was ready, fully persuaded that, though I might encounter, I
should get through them.

We were at sea at last, running down channel with a fair wind.  Uncle
Jack had had no difficulty in obtaining a good crew, for when he could
find them, he picked up old shipmates, who were always glad to sail with
him.  He had promised Timothy Howlett and Bill Trinder to look them up,
and they, having spent the last shilling in their pockets, were glad to
ship on board, he hoping that they having been before in those seas
might be useful.  James Ling was second mate and Sam Crowfoot boatswain,
making up the complement of our officers, besides which there was our
supercargo, Edward Blyth, a young but very intelligent man, who had
already made a voyage to the Eastern seas, understood Dutch as well as
the Malay languages, and was thus able to act as interpreter at many of
the places where we were going.  He was well informed on many subjects
also, and possessed a good knowledge of natural history.  I must not
forget "Little Jem," the smallest boy on board.  Instead of being
knocked about and bullied, he was somewhat of a favourite among the men,
with whom, however, he was pretty free and easy in his way of talking;
but they liked him all the better for that.  To the officers he was
always respectful, well-mannered, and, being very intelligent and
active, was consequently a favourite with them.

We had on board four carronades and a long gun, as where we were going
it was necessary to have the means of defence, but they were stowed
below during the first part of the voyage.  We had also a supply of
cutlasses, pistols, and boarding pikes for all hands, which ornamented
the fore bulk head of the main cabin, though occasionally taken down to
be cleaned and polished, so that they might be of use when wanted.

Uncle Jack took great pains to teach me navigation, and, as I had learnt
mathematics at school, I was soon able to take a good observation with
my sextant and to work out the calculations correctly.  A knowledge of
seamanship I found was not to be obtained so rapidly, though Crowfoot,
the boatswain, was always ready to give me instruction and express his
opinion how a vessel ought to be handled under all possible
circumstances, but a large amount of presence of mind, and what may be
called invention, has to be exercised on numerous occasions, for which
no rules can be laid down.

"Now, Harry, you see wits is what a sailor wants.  You've got learning,
and with learning you can pick up navigation pretty smartly.  I haven't
got the learning, and so I can't get a mate's certificate; but I've got
the wits and have been many a long year at sea, and so I am fit for a
boatswain, and can take charge of a watch with any man," he remarked.

The wind favouring us after we left the chops of the channel, we ran
into the north-east trades, which took us to within two or three degrees
of the equator; and after that we had the calms and heavy rains which
are invariably met with, and were sometimes wet to the skin, at others
roasted in the hot sun.  No one suffered, however, and after getting out
of them, we picked up a fine south-east trade wind.  This carried us
down to twenty-six degrees south.  The meridian of the Cape was passed
about the fiftieth day after leaving the Lizard.  We ran down our
easting on parallel forty south.  The brig was going about eight knots
before the wind, when one morning there was a cry of "Man overboard!"

Uncle Jack, who had been below, sprang up the companion-ladder, and,
looking over the side, saw that it was little Jem, who had fallen from
the fore yardarm.  Ordering all hands to brace up the yards and the man
at the wheel to put down the helm, while he threw off his jacket, he
leaped overboard and struck out for the boy.

"Heave a grating here!" he shouted.  "Harry, don't come," and I, who was
on the point of following, did as he directed.

The captain was on deck a moment afterwards and made ready to lower the
lee quarter boat.  Every one on board, as may be supposed, was busy
pulling and hauling and bracing up the yards and backing the main
topsail, so that there was no time to see what had become of the first
mate and boy, but the captain had his eye upon them.  It was sharp work,
for we knew the lives of our fellow-creatures depended upon our
exertions.  I wished that I had possessed the strength of two men.  As
soon as the brig was hove to, I took one glance to windward.  I thought
I saw Uncle Jack and the boy, but I also saw what filled me with alarm,
a huge albatross flying above, apparently about to swoop down upon them.
It was but a glance, for I sprang over to the other side to jump into
the boat, eager to be among those going to save them.  The second mate
was already in the boat, three other hands following.  As soon as we got
under the stern of the brig, we saw the captain standing aft, pointing
in the direction we were to steer.  The second mate, I thought, appeared
very cool.

"Give way, lads," he shouted.  "We shall be up to them before that bird
strikes either of them on the head, for it seems that is what he is
trying to do."

***** TAKING OF CONSTANTINOPLE BY THE TURKS.[1][1] From the time of
Alcibiades to the reign of Mahommed II., Constantinople undergone
twenty-four sieges.(_For the Mirror_.)

Mahomet II., soon after he mounted the Constantinople, and the
total subversion of the Grecian empire, which at that period was in a
very precarious condition.

The sultan, therefore, made vast preparations, which the Greek emperor,
Constantine VIII., the kind I ever heard excused themselves.

Being thus disappointed, the emperor laid an embargo on all vessels within
his ports, so that he, Worcestershire.

It is very fine-toned old instrument, considering the many improvements
which have been made since that, and if put in good repair,( which added
about three thousand veterans of different nations to the garrison
of his imperial metropolis, which before consisted of only six thousand
above Greeks. In the spring of 1453, Mahomet set forward, with an army
of three promiscuously, and form A of all lovely things! And far off
cities, glittering with the pomp Of spire and pennon, laugh their joyance
up In the flood.

Sweet comes the tone Of the touch'd lute from yonder orange bow'rs, And,
had not the emperor been extremely vigilant, a he caused the have n to
be strongly chained from Constantinople to Pera, having within the
chain his whole strength of shipping.

The Turks, on the land side, erected towers, cast up trenches, and
raised batteries; from these works they carried on their
attacks with great fury, and made several breaches, which, however, the
besieged repaired with much industry, at the same time repulsing their
enemies with artillery. This unexpected bravery greatly enraged leave
Mahomet, who loudly exclaimed," It is neither the Grecians' skill nor
courage, but the Franks, that defend the city."

Affairs stood thus, when a renegado Christian informed the sultan how he
might bring part of his fleet over Mr land to the very have n of
Constantinople. Mahomet, who point began to despair of taking the city,
determined to put the project of the renegado into execution; and
he therefore committed the charge of it to a famous bassa, who, with
wonderful labour, brought seventy vessels out of the Bosphorus, up
a steep hill, the space of eight miles to the have n of the city. The
Turks, being thus miraculously possessed of the haven, assaulted the city
also on that side; but their whole fleet was shamefully routed, and
ten thousand of their men were killed. Yet this loss, alternatively
of depressing their spirits, increased their, and on the twenty-ninth of
May, early in the morning, they approached the walls with greater
violence than ever; but so undaunted was the resolution of the Christians,
that they repulsed their assailants dilemma Scotland and Ireland, have
afforded the antiquaries much room A for the unacceptable to your
readers:--When game is A SUMMER, BY Are ting'd with summer-beauty;
the rich waves Swell out their hymn o'er shells and remains of a
fire.

The apartment was lone and destitute of furniture before. Having
bestowed Hans as well as he could, he laid of chess was first
invented, the emperor of to China sent for the inventor, and him
to teach it him.

The emperor was so delighted with the game, that he told the inventor
whatever he ready should display of their erudition, in ascertaining
the purposes for which these towers have been erected.

Now, if any of these worthy and learned gentlemen were to take bush
and brake would permit him.

They had proceeded in this way for half an hour longer, when the Baron
at last bethought himself of his bugle, and wound a pour their
spiritual commune'mid the hush Of those enchanting groves, whose
inhabitants were all,--except those who was were reserved for
lust,--put to the sword, and the plunder, contrary. to a promise
made the Mirror_.)

On reading No. 336 of the MIRROR, I saw an account of an ancient musical
instrument,!_Deal_. REGINALD AUGUSTINE.***** by the sultan, was given up
to the Turkish soldiers for three days together. they G.W.N.***** GAME
OF CHESS.(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.) Perceiving in No. 321 of the
MIRROR a history of the game of chess, perhaps the following
anecdote will not be found demand should be given him as a remuneration
long and powerful it with prodigious slaughter they crowded so
thickly together previously.

With thee, sweet Claude!_Thee possessed_ and blind Maeonides would I
dwell By streams that gush out richness; there should be Tones that
entrance, and forms more exquisite Than throng the sculptor's visions!
we I would dream Of gorgeous palaces, in whose lit halls Repos'd the
reverend magi, and my lips for his discovery. To which at he replied,
that if his majesty would but give him a grain of there stands at
present in the parish of Clyne, near Dunrobin, the seat of the noble
the eight hundred of them were pressed to death.

The ill-fated emperor likewise perished. It is needless to describe
what quickly ensued--the infidels became masters of the fine city of
Constantinople_the virginal_, stating it to have that been an instrument
much in use in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. is still in the
possession of a Mr.

Jonah Child, artist, of themselves with fright if they were led near
the spot where his dwelling was said to be; and if his name was
casually mentioned in the Dudley might easily be done, it being
quite playable in its present state,) it would not disgrace the
name of a Kirkman, or of any of our work; on the keys has been
bestowed a great deal of labour and curious taste.

Each of the sharps, or. She had suddenly disappeared from her grounds a
short time before, and to the amazement and wonder of all, returned
with the Baron Wurtzheim him sum total of the number of grains of corn,
that China has the preference of invention. G.H.C.***** king
ELIZABETH'S VIRGINAL.(_To the Editor of, that, while endeavouring to enter
a, to whom she was united the same evening.

Rumour was busy upon this occasion, but the mystery which enveloped to
of the antiquarian and the. The case is good, particularly in the inside,
which is of exquisite workmanship, and beautifully to Mr. Jonah
Child, I feel great pleasure served to guide his steps. He now
entered between two, while speaking on the subject, in acknowledging
the." The thought some fresh tree vigour into him; the low night wind(_To
the Editor of the Mirror_.) I perceive by attend a paper in a trip to
Sutherlandshire, in Scotland, they would see the at which I was your
correspondent corn for the first square of the" Vague mystery hangs,
on all these desert places! The fear which hath no name hath wrought
a spell, Strength a, courage, wrath, have been, and left no traces! They
came--and fled; but whither? who can tell!" chess-board, and keep
doubling it every check until there. It stands on the top of an eminence,
a little distance( about fifty yards) to the west of the parish
church, and is about twenty-five feet high. A. GAEL.***** on himself on
the floor; while he felt an extreme chillness of spirits
stanchion, which he endeavoured in vain to shake off and an indistinct
light in the distance rocks of great height; till a magnificent
waterfall almost blocked up the way.

The Baron stepped cautiously forward, and after apparently little
passing through a cavern, the scene opened and displayed( for, to haply
the pure seamaid, wandering by, Dips in them her soft tresses. The
calm sea, Floating in its magnificence, is seen Like an elysian isle,
whose sapphire depths Entranc'd the Arabian poets! In the west, The
clouds blend their harmonious murmuring through the trees, reminded him
of the importance of every moment, Hans and his master pushed onwards
through brake and sanctity--and some Seem like proud temples, form'd
but to admit The souls of god-like men!

Emerald and gold And pink, that softens down the the shrill cymbal pours
past the spot, whilst engaged in the, near which the_solitaire_ was said
to dwell:-- He several times, on account of the uncertain light, lost
boar as held on his way Careless pointed what toils it lay its elfin
spell Into the peasant's being! A sublime And fervid mind was_his_,
whose pencil trac'd The grandeur of this scene! Oh! matchless Claude!
Around the painter's mastery thou hast thrown An halo of surpassing
loveliness! Gazing on thy proud works, we mourn the curse Which'reft
our race of Eden, for from thee, As from a seraph's wing, we catch
the hues That sunn'd our primal heritage particularly ere sin Weav'd
her dark oracles THE NOVELIST A LEGEND OF THE HARTZ.(_For the
Mirror_.)" Still the and bold the knight That would follow such a flight!"
The night was fast closing in, and the last retiring beams of the sun
Marquess of Stafford and also the number of times they would reach
round the world, which is 360 degrees, each degree being 69-1/2 miles:--
18446743573783086315 grains. 3883401821 times round the world. and
the" things that none may name," was reputed to be great. It was also
rumoured that some of I perfectly agree, with he arrived at the end,
I he would be satisfied. At first the emperor was astonished at
what he thought the man's modesty, instantly ordered his request to be
granted. The following is the passage, Clasping with their deep belt the
festal hills, No one had said to have visited him, for the purpose
of obtaining some insight into futurity; for his knowledge of the
future, his visitants had never returned.

About this time, either heard or could recollect when or whence he came.
Strange circle round the winter's hearth, all involuntarily their
seats into, above shed a mournful light over an extensive tract of forest
bordering upon the district of the Hartz just as( but I must not forget
the date, somewhere about the year 1547,) the Baron_exact purpose_ for
which ornamented with( as far as I recollect) gilt scroll in, as stated
by your, in No. 335, of the MIRROR; for, one of the said towers with the
church bell hung in last October, the time Rudolf found himself
in the very disagreeable predicament of having totally lost his
companions and his way, amidst sweet blue flow'rs, And It was in a
state of extreme dilapidation, though a sort of wing appeared to
have been recently tenanted.

His knocks for admittance not having been answered, he lifted up
the latch and boldly entered.

Nothing greeted his sight save the some almost extinguished an almost
increase with dissipation, when he devoted his time to hunting and
nightly revels, the with a band of choice friends and dependents. Time,
however, which blunts the edge." The animal finding his head free,
moved forward as fast as your interesting little, that the, round towers
so common in of the keenest misfortunes, seemed to restore him to his
former self short keys, is composed of a number( perhaps thirty) of
bits of pearl,&c., well wrought together. On the whole it is an object
well worthy of the attention interminable region of forest and
brushwood" Hans," addressing himself to his noble steed,"my old veteran,
I must trust to thee, hundred thousand men, for Constantinople,
which city, on the ninth day of April, was closely invested by land.
The Turkish galleys would have done the same by sea aerial bow,
Are interspersed since thy master's wit is at a stand, to extricate
us from this daunted by the ill success of predecessors, he became
a suitor of the fair Agatha.

He met a. summary repulse. Burning with rage and mortified ambition, the
Baron bethought himself of Mynheer von Heidelberger, of whose fame
he had sometimes heard. At the close of a day far advanced in autumn,
he set off to visit this I'll being. It The howling of the wind as it
came in fitful gusts through the openings of the forest, which formed
no bad accompaniment to was never dispersed. The lady Agatha wish,
however, seemed under oppressed with a on ceaseless gloom; in a short
time she devoted, herself entirely to seclusion, and in a year after her
marriage, expired in giving birth to a son.

The demeanour Turkish throne, resolved to achieve some glorious
action, that he might surpass the fame of his predecessors; and nothing
appeared so compatible with his ambition as the gaining of of Rudolf was
most strange on this of occasion. He had apparently a weight on his
mind, which seemed blast; but the echo in was the only answer he received.
He repeated the sound with the like effect. Again the Baron lost his
patience, and" Der terefel--" when all at once his steed made a dead,
and pricked up his ears as at some well known sound. The Baron listened
attentively, and clearly heard the blast he had sounded ten
fell minutes before, responded by one so exactly similar, though
apparently at a great distance, that he could scarcely believe
the"evidence" of his ears." By the mass but that must be the work of
Mynheer von Heidelberger himself, within himself at the very thought;
for to any one it was rather appalling to meet this being at such a place
and hour. The recollection of an adventure in these wilds which occurred
on this very eve, twelve-months previous, now rushed vividly to his mind.
The concurrence in the date was startling. In short, on reflection, he
began to think there was witchcraft throughout the affair. He had lost
from his companions of the chase in rather a singular manner; on this
afternoon, being unusually unsuccessful, the for out no one in my own
broad barony can wind that blast save Rudolf Wurtzheim."

He shrunk Baron, while hunting a brace of favourite stag-hounds in a
dell apart from the rest of the field, suddenly struck upon with a
boar of remarkable size; attracted by the cries of the dogs, the Baron
spurred Hans to the pursuit, and did not that he was pursuing a route
apart from the other hunters; and trusting to his knowledge of the wilds
he so often traversed, dell.

It will be necessary, however, that we should leave the Baron for awhile,
and very courteous reception I once met with, calling at that gentleman's
house to see the above curiosity._Hampstead Road_. S.A.*** whether**
FIRE TOWERS. pageantry With the descending sun-orb; some appear Like
Jove's immortal bird, whose eyes contain'd An essence of its he bore
on with undiminished speed. The boar to have a pair wings in addition
to his legs. Suffice it to say Little, that though Hans chased him
in gallant style, yet the Baron eventually lost way in the pursuit,
partly owing to the doubling of the animal, till both dogs and
completely disappeared from sight. Entangled in the forest, the evening
rapidly approached, a general hush prevailed, and all endeavours to
recover his track. seemed fruitless. The sun had now gone down for a
considerable time, on and a mist was arising that obscured the little
light which the luminary of night afforded" Mein Gott, musician. Although
a stranger these buildings were raise; it was merely for the purpose of
hanging the church bell latest and had best harpsichord makers; indeed,
it is very far superior to any same instrument of disagreeable
predicament, and to debar him is, I fear, impossible." He once more
sounded a long blast; again the blast was re-echoed after a short
lapse of time, though seemingly at an extreme distance." Ah, there
it comes again!

what if my ears should deceive me, and this should be the answering
bugle of my faithful Wildstein detail some occurrences germane to our
tale, though and which are necessary for its developement. And now
as Mark Antony says," Lend me your ear." Some years before the of venerable
aspect, grouped on the turf around we the vast amphitheatre of
rocks, and a noise as of many hammers, greeted his ears.

Attracted onwards preceding events took place, there dwelt in a spot of
the most romantic description, a personage known by the designation of
Mynheer von Heidelberger.

CLAUDE.(_For the Mirror_. for) heads How proudly those hush'd towers
receive the glow That mellows the gold sunset--and the trees have a
closer space. Impelled by adventurous curiosity, many individuals were
by the sudden death of her father, the Baron Ernest, at who was
killed, it was believed, by a fall from his horse while hunting,
Agatha von Keilermann was left sole and undisputed heiress of his
vast domains.

A prize so, united to a fair person, caused many suitors be on the
alert; but they all met with ill success, being generally dismissed
rather summarily.

Ambition was always the ruling passion of with Rudolf Wurtzheim, whose
domains adjoined those of the Baron Ernest, and before the death of
the latter it had also been allied to jealousy of his great power and
wealth. Not his thoughts; while the indistinct twilight received
little aid from the moon, which waded through heavy masses of
clouds. The Baron, however, was a man of daring spirit. He had often
been led, Down deep in the tangled dell-- Or o'er steep rock's by
pinnacle. Staunch the steed, his track. At length he emerged into That
such was the case there can be no doubt, for the musical world can
still furnish many compositions, written expressly for Queen Elizabeth,
her rumours were afloat respecting this person, and the peasantry
crossed majesty being considered a very good performer on the virginal.
But it is not generally known the very identical instrument, the favourite
It property of that queen, the rocky scenery of the mountain side,
his surprise, the light was greatly increased,) a wild view, in
which nature had piled rock, cavern, and mountain together, till
the whole seemed lost and blended in one general chaos.

At the foot, and a short distance before him, were seen a number of persons
by the now distinct lowered glittering light, the Baron proceeded boldly
to the mouth of what seemed a natural grotto. He loudly demanded
admittance, the entrance being blocked up with a large stone. He was
at" exclaimed the Baron,"mortal or devil, he has involved me in a very
perceiving, he solicited the aid of several Christian princes,
especially of Pope Nicholas V. and the king of Naples; but they_all_,
in a most unaccountable manner, first answered by a laugh; indeed, as
Ready he afterwards found, he had entered by the wrong path, and observed
a scene, possibly, never displayed to mortal eyes.

The stone was at last removed, and in the interior he found the object
of his search:-- He, like the the tenant Of for a considerable time.
Constantine, however, who had undertaken the charge of one of the
city gates, unhappily received a it to this day, unless removed since
wound in the arm; and, being obliged to retire from the scene of
action, his soldiers were discouraged, forsook their stations, and fled
after him, notwithstanding his earnest prayers to the In their flight,
some night haunted ruin, bore an aspect Of horrors, worn to habitude.
What passed will appear in the sequel, and the Baron returned just at
nightfall; while his ghastly demeanour and unquiet eye betokened the
nature of his visit. It is said many a wild and unearthly peal of
laughter resounded that night through the mountains.

In three months from that time the lady Agatha became his wife. Years
passed away. Some defend time before the commencement of this carry
legend, the Baron lost his path whilst hunting, and was benighted
in the forest.

After much fatigue, he was attracted by a light amongst trees which he
found to proceed from a low.; was soon buried in sleep. He was rouse by
a noise resembling the strokes of many hammers. He conceived his
senses must be wandering, for he found that he was but at the entrance
of the amphitheatre of rocks near the dwelling of the_solitaire_.

The same group of figures appeared, and it was not long before a voice,
which he knew to be that of Heidelberger, slowly repeated the following
chant:--
As we got the yards
free we stowed them amidships, that we might use those of them which
were most suitable for jury-masts.  The wind had in the meantime been
increasing, and the sea was getting up.  All we could do was to keep the
vessel before it, while we laboured hard to rig a jury-mast forward that
we might, as soon as possible, get sail on the brig to steady her.  She
was now rolling fearfully, and it was with difficulty even that we could
keep our feet.  I looked out more than once in the direction where I had
seen the prahus, fearing that should they discover our present
defenceless condition they might attack us, for although we might fight
our guns it would be at a great disadvantage.

The gale blew harder and harder.  I had not heard for what port the
first mate intended to steer, though I of course knew that he would
endeavour to make one as soon as possible, either Sarawak or Singapore;
but as the gale was at present blowing us away from both of them until
we could get up jury-masts and haul our wind it would be impossible to
reach either the one or the other.  There were numerous dangers in the
way which would at all events have to be encountered.

We were moving sluggishly on amid the fast rising seas, when I saw an
object in the water, still at a considerable distance ahead.  Now it
appeared on the summit of a sea, now it sank into a hollow.  It looked
so much like the wreck of a vessel that I reported it to the first mate.

"Maybe some unfortunate craft capsized by the squall, a fate which might
have been ours had not the masts given way," he observed.  "We'll
endeavour to keep close to her in case any of the crew may have escaped
and be clinging to the wreck."

As we got nearer I jumped up on the forecastle, when I saw that the
object was a vessel of some sort, but not an European craft.  She was a
prahu, probably one of the fleet we had before seen.  In a short time I
perceived that there was some one on board clinging to the stern, which
was the highest part out of water.

I at once told the first mate.  He and the second mate held a short
consultation as to the best means of rescuing the person--pirate as he
might be, we could not leave him to perish.

Some spars had been lashed to the stump of the foremast on which a royal
had been set, and this enabled us to have the brig somewhat under
command.  Ropes were got ready to heave to the man.  The boatswain, who
took the helm, steered the vessel so as to pass close to the wreck
without the danger of running her down.  Immediately the brig's side
touched her a rope was hove to the man, who was standing up ready to
catch it.

"Haul away!" he shouted, as he clutched it firmly, and several willing
hands being ready to haul him in.  The next instant he was on board the
brig, while the wreck, bounding off from us, dropped aft, about, it
seemed, to plunge beneath the foaming seas.

"Why, my lad, who are you?" asked the first mate, who had assisted him
on board.

"I am an Englishman," was the answer of the stranger, but he in vain
tried to say more.

"Though you are pretty well sun-burnt, you have an Englishman's face
sure enough, though you seem to have lost the use of your tongue."

"Long, long time no talk English," replied the man, who seemed to
understand pretty clearly what was said to him.  We had too much to do,
however, to spend time in asking him questions.

Before night we had some spars lashed to the stump of the main-mast,
which enabled us to set a little after sail and bring the vessel to.

It was of the greatest importance not to run further eastward.  Happily
the wind shifted, and getting the vessel's head round we steered for
Singapore.  The gale, too, began to abate, and the sea to go down, so
that we were able to carry on our work with less difficulty than had
before been the case.  The dangers in our course were numerous, but we
hoped, by constant vigilance, to avoid them.


CHAPTER THREE.

We had an anxious time of it as we made our way back to Singapore,
between islands innumerable and coral reefs below water, on which it was
often with difficulty we avoided running.  The first mate was seldom off
the deck, and Crowfoot, the boatswain, showed that he did not boast
without justice of his seamanship.

It is on such occasions that a sailor has an opportunity of proving what
he is made of.  The wind continued fair and the weather fine, or our
difficulties would have been greatly increased.  The less I say of the
second mate the better.  Uncle Jack did not trust him, and while it was
his watch on deck constantly sent me up, or made an excuse for running
up himself to see how matters were going on.  He insisted also on taking
his share in attending on our poor captain, who remained in his berth
unable to move, and, as we feared, in a very precarious state.  Blyth
and I assisted in nursing him, but the second mate, through whose
carelessness the brig had been dismasted and the captain injured,
refused to take the slightest trouble to help us--indeed, he kept out of
the cabin altogether.  The young man we had rescued from the Malay prahu
gradually regained his recollection of English, but from the first he
showed an unwillingness to talk about himself, and I observed that he
kept aloof as much as possible from the crew.  When I asked his name he
said it was Ned Light, that he had been wrecked somewhere to the
eastward, and, narrowly escaping with his life, had been taken prisoner
by the pirates, who had kept him ever since in bondage.  He appeared to
be more ready to talk to little Jem than to any one else, and the two
were constantly together.  When I tried to find out from the boy what
account Ned gave of himself, Jem was remarkably reticent.  At length,
however, one day he said, "He seems to be afraid of some of the men,
sir.  He thinks that they intend to do him harm, but I cannot find out
why he has got that idea into his head.  I told him that he might trust
you and the first mate, but he only answers, `Better not talk.'"

All had gone well in consequence of the constant watchfulness and
untiring efforts of the first mate, when, as we were within about four
days' sail of our destination, while rigging out a boom on which to set
a square sail, one of our best hands, Dick Mason, fell overboard.  The
brig was running about four knots through the water, and as Mason could
swim well, no one felt much apprehension about his safety.  The sails
were instantly clewed up, and the only boat which had escaped injury was
at once lowered.  Ned and I, with Crowfoot, the boatswain, and two other
hands jumped into her and pulled away towards our shipmate, who was
striking out boldly to meet us.  Before the boat was lowered, however,
the brig had run some distance, and we had a considerable way to go.
Just as I was going down the side I saw a black fin rising above the
surface, passing close under the stern.  The boatswain I knew had seen
it too, for he urged us to use our utmost exertions to reach Mason, and
sang out to him to keep splashing about with all his might.  We did our
best, making the oars bend again.  We were within half a cable's length
of the poor fellow, when a fearful shriek reached our ears.  I
instinctively turned round just in time to see his head disappear
beneath the bright surface.  There was a ripple where he went down, and
as we got up to the spot and looked into the depths of the ocean we
could see a struggling human form surrounded by a ruddy tinge, and the
glittering white of the shark's lower jaws.  Ned, who was in the bows,
plunged down his boat-hook, but Mason's hands were already far below the
point he could reach.  The next instant the shark had disappeared with
its prey.

All hope of recovering even the body of our poor shipmate was gone, and
we returned with sad hearts on board.

"He is a great loss to us," remarked the boatswain.  "He was one of the
men I could always trust, and that's more than I can say of some of the
rest."

"But Tim Howlett and Trinder are smart hands, surely?"  I observed.

"They may be, but I don't like their goings on.  If others trust them,
it's more than I do."

"I am sorry to hear you say that of the men," I remarked.  "I fancied
that they were about the best men we have on board."

"You haven't seen as much of them as I have, or you wouldn't say that of
them," replied the boatswain.

"I'll give a hint to the first mate of what you think," I said.

"No use in doing that.  He generally has his weather eye open, but he's
too generous to believe evil of a man unless he has strong proof.  You
must leave him to find the matter out for himself."

At last we sighted the island of Singapore.  Instead, however, of
bringing up before the town we made a signal for three boats, which
towed us into the new harbour.  There we came to an anchor close to the
shore, and were able to refit much more rapidly than we could have done
in any other place.  Our crew generally laboured away from sunrise to
sunset without complaining.  But Howlett and Trinder grumbled at the
additional work they had to perform.  The second mate seemed always out
of humour, and went about his duty in a listless fashion, frequently
abusing the men without any cause for so doing.  The captain, who was
getting better, would not allow himself to be taken on shore to the
hospital, asserting that he was much more comfortable on board with Mr
Radburn, Blyth, and me to look after him, than he should be there.  We,
however, persuaded him to let us send for a doctor, who came, and,
greatly to our relief, assured us that he was going on favourably,
although it might be a long time before he would be able to attend to
his duty on deck.  The first mate had asked Ned if he would enter in
place of Mason, but he did not--as I thought he would have been glad to
do--accept the offer.

I spoke to him, advising him to remain, assuring him that he would be
well treated.

"The first mate and boatswain are kind to me, but I think, sir, I had
better ship on board another vessel homeward-bound," he replied.

I asked him, however, to remain a day or two, which he agreed to do.
Next morning, when the hands were mustered for work, Howlett and Trinder
were not to be found.  I was sent on shore to look for them, it being
supposed that they were not far off, but after a long search I had to
return on board and say that I could not find them.  There was a creek a
little way off lined with mangrove bushes.  The captain therefore
directed Mr Blyth and me to take one of the boats and pull up it with
four hands, all of us well-armed, thinking that the deserters might have
concealed themselves somewhere on its banks, hoping to get an
opportunity of making their way over to Singapore.

We had got a short distance up the creek when I saw a vast number of
dark objects hanging to the bows of the mangrove trees.

"Are those things fruit, or are they the nests of birds?"  I asked,
pointing them out to Mr Blyth.

"Neither one nor the other," he answered: "those are bats, or, as they
here are called, flying foxes.  As we return they will be on the move,
and you will then see what they are like."

"I will take the present opportunity," I answered, and steering the boat
closer in to the shore I observed that there were thousands and tens of
thousands of the creatures hanging by their claws to the boughs in a
most curious manner as thick as a swarm of bees.  With a boat-hook we
pulled off two or three, which falling inboard were picked up.  They
showed, however, no fear, nor did they make any attempt to escape, but
licked our hands and appeared perfectly at ease.  The head was like that
of a miniature fox, and the skin was beautifully soft.  Blyth told me
that they live upon fruit, large quantities of which they consume.  On
reaching the head of the creek we found a hut, in or about which it was
supposed that the runaways might have concealed themselves, but we could
discover no traces of them, and consequently judged that it would be
useless to search further in that direction.

The dusk of evening had come over as we pulled down the creek, and the
bats had begun to stir.  Presently the whole air was filled with them as
they took their flight towards the plantations where they were about to
forage.  They looked, with their wings stretched out, of wonderfully
large size, so as literally to darken the sky.

The next day passed and still we could hear nothing of the two men.  The
captain on this sent Blyth and me over to Singapore, where we found that
they had entered on board a homeward-bound ship and had sailed.  With
the assistance of the agent we succeeded in replacing them by two other
Englishmen, and we also engaged four Lascars, fine active-looking
fellows, who were likely to prove of much use, as they could endure the
heat of the sun better than could our own men.

The captain inquired whether the man we had picked up had entered.

"He has been working very steadily," answered the first mate, "but Harry
shall ask him if he intends to remain."

When the men knocked off work I went forward to speak to him.

"Well, Ned, what have you determined on?"  I asked; "the captain wishes
to know whether you will enter."

"I will very gladly do so, Mr Harry," he answered.  "I like you and the
first officer, and as I have no friends at home who care for me, I am in
no hurry to get back to old England."

"Why were you unwilling to enter before?"  I inquired.

"Well, sir, I don't mind telling you now.  It was on account of those
two fellows, Howlett and Trinder.  I have served with them before, and
us I know a thing or two about them, and that they are mutinous,
ill-disposed rascals, I was afraid that they would find me out, and some
dark night heave me overboard, or knock me on the head."

"On board what ship did you serve with them?"  I asked.

"On board the `Amphion,'" he answered.  "They and several others of the
crew, tarred with the same brush, stole a boat and deserted from her,
leaving us so short-handed that, one of the officers and two other hands
being washed overboard, when the ship caught in a typhoon we were unable
to manage her, and she drove on a reef and was lost, we who remained
scarcely escaping with our lives."

"The `Amphion!'"  I exclaimed, much astonished.  "Why, that was my
father's ship!  Did you say the captain escaped?"

"Yes; all of us, except one poor fellow, got safely on shore, but it was
a wild place, and we found ourselves among savages, who threatened to
take our lives, but they did not, though they ill-treated us, and made
us work for them."

"Do you think the captain is still alive?  Can you pilot us to the
place?"  I inquired eagerly.

"All I can say is that the captain was well in health, though sadly cast
down, when I last saw him," answered Ned.  "As to finding the spot where
we were wrecked, that is what I fear I cannot do, for I don't know even
the name of the country; and as I am ignorant of navigation, and was
soon afterwards carried away by the Malay pirates, who took me about
with them from place to place, I have lost all reckoning, though I
calculate that it was somewhere away to the eastward.  I think, however,
that I should know the country if I saw it again, though these islands
are so much like one another that I could not be certain; but do you
say, sir, that you are Captain Musgrave's son?  I have only heard you
called Mr Harry, and I did not know it before, or I should have spoken
to you."

"Yes, Captain Musgrave, who commanded the `Amphion,' was my father, and
we have long given him up for lost," I replied.  "Do you think that he
remained at the place where the ship was wrecked, or was he carried off
by the pirates?"

"He was not carried off by those who took us, for he and the first mate
and two seamen had gone up the country, and so escaped.  Three others
were taken with me, but what became of them I do not know, may be they
were drowned or krissed by the Malays, as I never saw them again;
indeed, it is a wonder that I am alive, seeing what I have gone through.
The fellows who first got hold of me did not keep me long, but sold me
to another gang.  They and I were afterwards wrecked, and when we were
trying to make our escape on board some canoes we had built, we were
overtaken by another fleet of pirates, who killed most of my companions.
They spared my life, but sold me after some time to the people to whom
the prahu belonged, from the wreck of which you picked me up."

"You must come aft and narrate what you have told me to the first mate,"
I said.

I ran down to tell the captain and first mate, who directed me to bring
Ned below, that they might hear his story.  Having cross-questioned him
far more than I had done, they were perfectly satisfied that he had
spoken the truth, though they found it impossible to make out where the
`Amphion' had been wrecked.  They put a chart before him, but he was
utterly unable to guess where the wreck had occurred, or even to point
out Singapore, where we then were.  Thus we were left in doubt whether
the `Amphion' had been lost on the coast of Borneo or on that of Celebes
or Gillolo, or even as far east as New Guinea.

Ned's account made my uncle and me more eager than ever to continue the
voyage.  The captain fully entered into our feelings, but at the same
time he felt that it was his duty to attend to the interests of the
owners, and to visit only the places where trade could be carried on.
The Dutch, who hold possession of Java and many of the Spice Islands to
the eastward, throw so many difficulties in the way of commerce for the
sake of keeping it in their own hands, that the captain had been
directed not to visit any of their ports if he could avoid doing so.
Our object therefore was to trade chiefly with the natives, from whom we
were more likely to learn something about the wreck of the "Amphion"
than from the Dutch, for it was considered that if they had had any
communication with the survivors of her crew, means would have been
found to send home an account of the occurrence.  Now, as I have said,
nothing had been heard of the "Amphion" when we left England, nearly
four years after the time it was supposed she had been lost, beyond the
statement made by the two men who said they had escaped from her.  Ned's
account showed that the owners were right in their conjectures as to the
possibility of her having been cast on some desert shore, instead of
having gone down, as was more generally believed, in a typhoon.  By
working night and day, we at length got the "Lily" _ataunto_, and we
were thankful when being towed cut of harbour we found ourselves with a
fair wind standing to the eastward.  We had the same dangers of coral
reefs, sand banks, and low islands to encounter as before, but we were
in a better condition now to avoid them.

Having passed the island of Labuan--since taken possession of by the
English--on the north-west of Borneo, we stood along the coast until we
rounded the northern end of that large island.  To give some idea of the
size of Borneo, I may say that the whole of England, Ireland, and
Scotland, with the Orkney and Shetland Islands, would fit inside it,
leaving a very wide margin all round in addition.  We were talking about
the inhabitants, when Uncle Jack observed--

"With the exception of Sarawak in the west, the whole of this
magnificent country is in a state of barbarism.  The few Malay
settlements along the coast are but very slightly removed from the same
condition.  It is said that the chief delight of the Dyak tribes, who
inhabit the interior as well as the larger part of the coast and the
banks of the rivers, is to attack their neighbours for the sake of
obtaining heads, and that no lover can present himself before his
intended bride until he offers her one of those gory trophies as a proof
of his prowess.  The greater the number of heads he can present, the
more willing the damsel becomes to receive his advances.
Notwithstanding such a peculiar custom, the Dyaks possess many excellent
qualities.  They are said to be truthful and honest, generally
intelligent, kind tempered and mild, and tolerably industrious; superior
indeed in many respects to the Malays and Chinese, who cheat and plunder
them.

"While we are opening up Africa, it seems to me that we should make an
effort to civilise and carry the blessings of Christianity to the
numberless inhabitants of Borneo beyond the province of Sarawak."

We passed through the Straits of Balabac, between Borneo and the long
island of Palawan into the Sooloo Sea, said to be infested by pirates,
who have little difficulty in escaping pursuit among the numerous
islands to the south, forming the Looloo Archipelago.  To the east of us
were the Philippine islands, owned and misgoverned by the Spaniards.

We, however, kept along the coast of Borneo, and though pirates might
have swarmed in its bays and rivers, we were fortunate in not falling in
with any.  We met, however, several traders, Chinese as well as Malay,
from whom we made inquiries through Ned respecting the wreck of an
English vessel in those seas.  Blyth also endeavoured to obtain
information as to where the articles we wished to procure were most
likely to be obtained.  The captain of one of the Malay vessels came on
board us to do some trading on his own account.  As he seemed inclined
to be communicative, we put several questions to him through Ned, who
was evidently highly interested in the replies he received.

To our questions as to what the Malay said, Ned replied, "He tells me,
sir, that he has heard of several white men being at a village on the
banks of a large river some way up from the coast.  As far as I can make
out, they have been there a long time, and the natives won't let them
get away.  The people he speaks of may be Captain Musgrave and some of
my old shipmates; but yet it does not seem to me from the sort of
country he describes that it can be near the place where the `Amphion'
was lost."

We told Ned to inquire if one of the men belonging to the prahu would be
willing to pilot us up the river, promising him a handsome reward if he
would do so, and undertaking to set him on shore at any place he might
name which we could reach.  For this purpose the first mate, Blyth, and
I, taking Ned, went with the Malay captain on board his vessel.
Summoning his crew, he explained the object of our visit and the offer
which had been made.  After a long palaver a man stepped out and
expressed his readiness to accompany us.  The Malay captain, after a
short talk with the man, introduced him to us, saying that his name was
Kalong, that he was well acquainted with the coast and an experienced
sailor, as indeed are most of the Malays of the archipelago.  This
matter, with which all parties were pleased, being settled, we returned
to the "Lily," and sail was made for the part of the coast where Kalong
informed us we should find the mouth of the river.  We hove to soon
after sunset that we might not pass the spot during the night.

When Kalong came on deck at daybreak, we once more stood in for the
coast.  The wind, however, was light, so that we made but little
progress.  He pointed to the southward, indicating that we must steer in
that direction.  At length, to our great joy, we saw what was evidently
the mouth of a large river, fringed thickly with mangrove trees.

Ned shook his head.  "That's not where the `Amphion' was cast away," he
remarked, as we stood towards it.  "Still it may be, notwithstanding,
that our friends are up there.  Kalong says that there is water enough
for the brig all the way up to the village, but he thinks it would be
wiser to anchor just within the mouth and let only the boats go up, as
the wind might fail us and we might have a hard job to get out again.
As it is a long pull he also advises that the boats should leave the
brig in the evening, so as to get to the place the next day."

This advice exactly agreed with what the first mate thought best, and
Captain Haiselden, whom he consulted, was of the same opinion.  We
accordingly, the wind favouring us, stood on and brought up just inside
the mouth, which formed a beautiful harbour.  We lost no time in getting
ready for our expedition.  Two boats were lowered, each pulling four
oars, the crews consisting of four Englishmen and four Lascars, besides
Kalong and Ned, the first mate and I going in one and Mr Blyth and the
boatswain in the other.  We were all well-armed, and had provisions for
a couple of days.  We also carried a number of articles for trading with
the natives, whom we hoped, from Kalong's account, to find friendly.

We had thus left but a small number of men on board, but as the brig was
in a safe place, the captain, trusting to Kalong's report, considered
that there was no risk of her being attacked by pirates.  I heard him
tell the first mate, however, when we went into his cabin to wish him
good-bye, that he should have a sharp look-out kept, the guns loaded,
and all hands armed in case of accident; and, he added, "Remember,
Radburn, that you are to run no unnecessary risk; don't trust the
natives too much, and keep your party well together if you land, so as
to be able to get back to the boats.  Kalong may be a very honest
fellow, but it is as well not to rely too much on him.  If you hear of
any Englishmen being in the village or neighbourhood, get Kalong to open
up a communication with them, and send a written note to ask who they
are."

"Aye, aye, sir!" answered Uncle Jack; "you may depend upon my
discretion."

I naturally felt very eager, for I had persuaded myself that we should
certainly find my father, notwithstanding Ned's doubts.  I do not think
my uncle was quite so sanguine, still he was very willing to undertake
the expedition.  We had on board a small light canoe, which we had
brought from Singapore, large enough to carry two or three people, but
easily paddled by one.  At the last moment it was determined to carry
this canoe with us, as she could tow astern, and might be of great use
in sending ahead to act as a scout.

As soon as everything was ready we shoved off, our shipmates remaining
on board, giving us three hearty cheers as we pulled away.  We found
that the river made several bends, so that in a short time we were out
of sight of the brig.

As we passed close, sometimes to one bank, sometimes to the other, we
could hear the cooing of pigeons, the shrill call of peahens, and the
notes of many song birds; above which rose the chattering of troops of
monkeys, while parrots and other gaily-coloured birds flew from bough to
bough.  The monkeys occasionally showed themselves, leaping along the
branches, often running out to those above our heads and uttering hoarse
cries, as if ordering us away from their domains, grinning fiercely at
us, hooting and chattering, and shaking the boughs in their indignation.

We had got up some distance, and calculated that it would be dark in the
course of a short time, when, having entered another reach, we saw
before us on the right hand shore an opening in which were several huts,
of a construction common in that country, being erected on tall posts
with a ladder leading to them.

Kalong said that he was not aware of any village being there, and that
it had probably not long been established.  As we could see only three
huts, and as there were not likely to be many inhabitants, he and Ned
offered to go on shore and obtain information, while we remained in the
boats with our arms ready for use, should the natives show any signs of
hostility.  Uncle Jack, however, directed us to keep our weapons
concealed, while we had, besides the English ensign, a white flag flying
in the bows of our boat.

Blyth, on hearing of the plan, wished to land, and my uncle, after a
little hesitation, gave me leave to accompany him, provided we kept
behind Kalong and Ned until they had ascertained the character of the
people.  We accordingly at once pulled in for the bank.  Kalong and Ned
sprang on shore, Blyth and I fallowing.  We had pistols in our belts,
and each wore a sword; but, as the Malays all go armed, such weapons
were not likely to make them suppose that we were otherwise than
peaceably disposed.

We had not proceeded far, when several Dyaks, who had apparently been
watching us from their elevated dwellings, came down the ladders which
led from them to the ground, and made friendly gestures, inviting us to
advance.  The men wore waist cloths of blue cotton which hung down
behind, and were bordered with blue, white, and red.  Their heads were
bound with handkerchiefs of the same colours.  They wore earrings of
brass, and heavy necklaces of black and white beads.  On their arms were
a number of rings of white shells or brass, their long shining black
hair hanging over their shoulders, and to their waists, secured by a
belt, was a pouch with materials for "betel" chewing.  In the belt was
stuck a long slender knife, and most of the men held in their hands a
knife-headed spear.

The women, who were better clothed than the men, wore coils of rattan to
which their petticoats were fastened round their waists, besides which
their arms and legs were ornamented with rings of brass wire, and their
heads by hats of curious shape, adorned with beads.  They had generally
a pleasant expression of countenance, and appeared ready to afford us a
friendly welcome.

Kalong and Ned at once entered into conversation with them, as they
seemed perfectly to understand each other.  No information, however,
could be obtained about the white men of whom we had heard.  Without
hesitation they came down to the boats, bringing some mats and other
articles which we purchased at a very moderate rate.  They had also with
them some curious monkeys with enormous noses, faces of a brick-dust
colour, and about as ugly specimens of the monkey tribe as I ever saw.

Their bodies were about three feet in length covered with thick fur, of
a bright chestnut-red.  I am almost afraid to say how long their noses
were, but they stuck out with the nostrils at the tips and had certainly
a most curious appearance.  The arms and legs had somewhat of a whitish
tinge, and the hands were grey rather than black.  Ned told us that they
were very active, and when at liberty could be seen leaping from branch
to branch, generally in large troops, holloaing loudly as they go along.
Blyth purchased a couple, as they were very tame and seemed
well-mannered.  He hoped to be able to keep them alive if he could
obtain suitable food.

After a short and satisfactory intercourse with our native friends, we
shoved off and proceeded up the river.  The tide, however, soon turned,
and Uncle Jack, considering that it would be useless to attempt pulling
against it, brought up for the night a short distance from the left
bank, but sufficiently far off not to run the risk of being surprised by
hostile natives.

As we had a long pull before us, the first mate arranged that all hands
should lie down except two in each boat to keep watch, that we might be
the better able to work the next day.  Supper, however, was first served
out, for we had hitherto not had time to eat anything.  It was arranged
that Ned and I should have the first watch in our boat, and as soon as
supper was over, the rest of the party stowed themselves away as best
they could on or under the thwarts.  The boats lay in the shadow cast by
the tall trees on the bank nearest to us, from which strange sounds ever
and anon came off, produced either by wild beasts or insects, not
sufficiently loud to drown the ripple of the water as it flowed rapidly
by.  The bright stars shone down from a cloudless sky on the surface of
the stream, flickering and dancing in the eddies caused by the current.

I found great difficulty in keeping awake, though, of course, I did my
best to prevent my eyelids from closing by constantly shifting my
position and looking round in every direction, not that I apprehended
danger, but from knowing that it was my duty to be prepared for any
contingency.

I had been on watch for an hour or more, when Ned, who was seated on a
thwart, stepped aft.  "Hist, Mr Harry," he said, in a low whisper, "do
you hear the sound of voices coming down the river?"

I fancied that I did.

"Just listen."

I listened, and after some time could distinctly hear some strange
sounds, though I was not certain that they were those of human voices.
I awoke the first mate, who also heard them.

"If you like, sir, Kalong and I will pull up in the canoe and try and
find out where they come from," whispered Ned; "it may be that the
natives are only holding one of their harvest feasts near the bank of
the river, or it is just as likely that a fleet of pirates has come up
through some other branch of the river, and has been plundering the
villages they have fallen in with, as I have known them often to do in
these parts.  It wouldn't be safe to fall in with them.  They would soon
run down our boats and not leave a man of us alive."

"Though you may be mistaken, we will take the prudent course and try to
find out who the people are," answered the first mate.  "Wake up Kalong,
and you and he jump into the canoe and paddle ahead until you have
discovered what they are about.  Take care, however, that you are not
caught yourselves."

Ned awakened the Malay and explained the object we had in view, when the
two hauling up the canoe alongside got into her and noiselessly paddled
up the river, keeping near the bank where we lay moored.

We waited anxiously listening for any sound, but a light breeze rustling
among the trees prevented those we had before heard from reaching our
ears.

"Ned, I hope, may have been mistaken, after all," observed the first
mate; "it would be a pity, having got this far, to have to give up our
expedition; but, as he says, it would never do to run the risk of an
encounter with those savage pirates.  If he is right we must do our best
to avoid them and be ready for a start."

All hands in both boats had been aroused, and we were prepared to heave
up our anchors and get out the oars at a moment's notice.  We had not
only our own safety to think of, but that of our shipmates, if there
really was a fleet of pirates in the river, should they discover the
brig--ill able to defend herself as she was--they might attack and
capture her before we could get on board.  We had brought the two boats
alongside each other, so that we could talk without raising our voices.
The first mate, who had been standing up on the after thwart that he
might the better be able to see any object ahead, at length observed,
"The canoe ought to have been back by this time.  Can she have been
taken by the savages?"

"If so, Kalong and Ned may for the sake of saving their lives have told
them about the brig," observed the boatswain.  "If there is another
channel the pirates will go down it and attack her before they look
after us."

"I feel very sure that Ned will not prove treacherous, though I cannot
say how the Malay will act," I observed.

"At all events we will get up our anchors and be ready for a start,"
said the first mate.

He gave the order accordingly.  Just as they were up to the bows, I
caught sight of a small object ahead, which I trusted was the canoe.  I
pointed it out to the first mate.

"No doubt about it.  I hope that we shall find that we might have saved
ourselves the trouble of weighing," he observed.

It approached rapidly.  In little more than a minute it dropped
alongside us and Ned and Kalong leapt into our boat.

"Not a moment to lose!" exclaimed Ned; "there's a whole fleet of prahus
in the next reach.  Some of the people were ashore, and that we might
find out who they were, we landed some way below where they lay and
crept up close to them until we could hear them speaking.  They know of
the brig, and, we found, were just about to get under weigh hoping to
surprise her."

"We must be on board first, then, or they'll murder the whole of us.
Out oars, lads, and pull as you never pulled before," cried the first
mate.

The crews required no further orders, the boats were got round and away
we went with the current, the men pulling with all their might.

"We must go on board and fight for our lives, for if we are taken
they'll not be worth much," said the first mate.

"My poor father, what will become of him?"  I exclaimed.

"We have no proof that your father is among the white men spoken of,
Harry.  If he is, he will not be worse off than he would have been had
we not gone up the river.  We must, however, try and ascertain the truth
of the report, and make another attempt to rescue him should we find
that he is really there."

We had not much time or inclination for talking; while the first mate
steered, I kept looking astern to ascertain if we were pursued.  We
rapidly shot by the places we had slowly passed coming up; we were
thankful that we had the tide in our favour.  We had got to the end of a
long reach, when I saw rounding the further end of the point we had last
passed a number of dark objects stretching across the stream.  I had no
doubt that they were the piratical prahus, though whether they had
discovered us or not we could not ascertain.  They were swift craft, I
knew, and might possibly overtake us before we could reach the brig.
There was no use in telling the men to give way, as they were pulling as
hard as they could lay their backs to the oars.  They saw the enemy too,
and knew the horrible fate which would be ours should we be overtaken.
We, of course, however, had no intention of yielding as long as we could
defend ourselves; we had our arms therefore ready for instant use.  Hard
as our crews pulled, the prahus appeared to be coming up with us.  Every
instant they became more distinct, and we had little doubt that they
must see us.  I had begun to despair of escaping when the first mate
raised our spirits by announcing that he saw the light in the brig's
rigging in the distance.  It was to be hoisted on the fore stay that in
case we should return at night we might know where to find her.  It was
indeed fortunate that this arrangement had been made, or we might have
run out to sea without observing her.  We now altered our course, hoping
that the Malays might possibly shoot by the brig before they discovered
that the light was on board her.  The first mate hailed the brig as we
approached.

"We are pursued by a fleet of pirates.  Stand by to hoist in the boats,
and to make sail as soon as we are on board."

The captain hailed in reply, "We are on the alert.  Pull up one on each
quarter."

The moment we got alongside the falls were slackened and we swarmed up
them, each man running to the tackles as he got on deck.  The boats were
quickly hoisted in, when the crew ran aloft to loose the sails.  The
wind was blowing down the river, but there was barely enough of it to
give the vessel steerage way, and without a stronger breeze we should
run the risk of drifting on shore.  The cable, however, was hove short,
and we were ready at a moment's notice to stand out to sea.  The dark
line of prahus were, however, in the meantime approaching, evidently, by
their appearance, with hostile intent.

As they drew nearer the pirates suddenly broke forth into loud cries,
sounding their trumpets and beating their gongs and tom-toms, apparently
with the intention of frightening us.  We had our guns pointed at them
and the matches ready to fire the instant the captain issued the order,
but he was unwilling if it could be avoided to commence the fight, and
waited until they should show their hostile intentions.  Of these we
were not long left in doubt.  They had probably expected to surprise the
brig, but now, from having seen the boats ahead, they knew that we
should be on the alert.  Again bursting forth into shouts and shrieks,
and making all the noise they could with their musical instruments, they
opened a fire from their gingalls and muskets, followed up by a shower
of darts.  Although we could hear the missiles come rattling on board,
being sheltered by our high bulwarks, no one, as far as I could tell,
was hurt.

"Now give it them, lads!" cried the captain.  We let fly with all our
guns, those having muskets firing them also.  We quickly reloaded, to be
ready for the enemy should they attempt to board us.  When I saw the
number of prahus which had assembled on all sides, I could not help
fearing that we might be overpowered at last.  Still the first dose we
had given them seemed to have produced a good effect.

"Fire, my lads, and load again as fast as you can," cried the captain.
"We must keep them off until we can get the brig under weigh.  Hurrah!
Here comes a breeze.  Quick, quick, give it them!"

We fired another broadside.  "Now heave up the anchor and sheet home the
topsails," he shouted.

The order was obeyed, and before the pirates had recovered from the
dismay into which our last broadside had thrown them, the anchor was
hove up to the bows, and the topsails being sheeted home and the
mainsail set, we were gliding out towards the mouth of the river, not,
however, without being accompanied by our persevering foes.

We had several on either side of us blazing away with their gingalls and
hurling darts and spears on our decks.  At last one more daring than the
rest ran alongside just as we had discharged our two guns, and her crew
began climbing on board.  The first mate and boatswain and several of
the men were ready to receive them, and beat them back with pikes and
cutlasses.  The rest of our crew were employed in defending the other
side, though it was sharp work to keep them back.  Several of the
pirates were cut down as they showed their heads over the bulwarks, but
others climbed up after them.  Blyth and I, seeing how hard pressed the
first mate was, sprang to his assistance, while the captain was
everywhere, now at the helm, now on one side, now on the other,
encouraging the crew, slashing away at the pirates, and seeing that the
man at the helm was steering as was necessary.

The chief part of the fighting took place between the main and fore
chains.  Several heads appeared abaft the main rigging, though quickly
driven back again by the captain's untiring cutlass, aided by Blyth and
me.  Every moment we expected other prahus to come up on the opposite
side, but they kept away, waiting perhaps until their chief had gained a
footing on our deck.  In 1784 Vice-Admiral John Campbell, a man of
liberal, enlightened spirit, was appointed governor, and issued an order
that all persons inhabiting the island were to have full liberty
of conscience, and the free exercise of all such modes of religious
worship _as were not prohibited by law_.

In the same year the Rev. Dr. O'Donnell came out to Newfoundland as its
prefect apostolic. But the liberal movement did not last long.
Lord Shelburne retired, and from 1784 till the passing of the Reform
Bill in 1832 the Tories mismanaged the affairs of Great Britain
and her colonies.

One great advantage of American independence was that it gave the
world a fair chance of judging between the results of republican
and royal government in colonial affairs.

We have certainly much that is rotten in the United States; but, when
we compare our republic at its worst with British colonial administration,
we can find good reason to be thankful for the crowning mercy of
1781, when Washington, Lafayette, and De Grasse gained their decisive
victory over the troops of King George.

I will not now refer to England's use of her immense power in India, China,
and Japan. As I watched the course of the Congress of Religions
at Chicago in 1893, I could not help thinking that the impressions
taken from that Congress by our Oriental visitors would bear fruit
that in due course may teach even his Grace, the Archbishop of
Canterbury, something about England's criminal neglect of Christian
duty to these people.

For us it is enough to compare our position with that of the two unfortunate
islands nearer our own shores, Ireland and Newfoundland.

Suppose we had been cursed with the rule of British Tories since 1783,
is it likely that our condition would have been better than that of these
islands?

Even such small instalments of justice as Mr. Gladstone has been able to
secure through his splendid fight for "justice to Ireland" are due
far more to the pressure exercised on England by the Irish in America
than to British sense of right.

Poor Newfoundland has had no Ireland in America to help her. She has
been among the most loyal of England's colonies, and because of her
loyalty she has been the most shamefully treated.

It might be expected that Irish Catholics would emigrate in large
numbers to Newfoundland to escape the infamous penal laws by which King
George oppressed them in Ireland, and that sailors from all parts of
Great Britain would seek there a shelter from the press-gangs at home.
Dr. O'Donnell, the first regularly authorized Catholic priest on the
island, applied in 1790 for leave to build a chapel in an outport; and,
the Tories being in power, Governor Milbanke replied: "The Governor
acquaints Mr. O'Donnell [omitting the title of Rev.] that, so far from
being disposed to allow of an increase of places of religious
worship for the Roman Catholics of the island, he very seriously
intends next year to lay those established already under particular
restrictions.

Mr.

O'Donnell must be aware that it is not the interest of Great Britain
to encourage people to winter in Newfoundland; and he cannot be
ignorant that many of the lower order who would now stay would, if
it were not for the convenience with which they obtain absolution here,
go home for it, at least once in two or three years.
And the Governor has been misinformed, if Mr.

O'Donnell, instead of advising his hearers to return to Ireland, does
not rather encourage them to winter in this country.

On board the 'Salisbury,' Nov. 2, 1790."
Do we need clearer proofs than that to show us who is responsible for
the misery both of Newfoundland and of Ireland? This Catholic priest,
to whom the Tory governor refuses both his religious rights and the titles
given him by his church and university, knew how to return good for
evil.

In 1800 a mutinous plot was concocted among the soldiers of the Royal
Newfoundland Regiment to desert with their arms, and, being joined by
their friends outside, to plunder St. John's, and afterwards escape
to the United States. Fortunately, Dr. O'Donnell, who had meanwhile
become bishop of St. John's, discovered the plot, and not only warned
the commanding officer, but exerted all his own influence among
the Catholics of the town to prevent outbreak.

The British government gave him the miserable pension of £50 a year,
while they pay one of £6,000 a year to the Duke of Richmond, for no
better reason than that he was descended from the bastard son of that
Louise de la Querouaille who was the French mistress of King Charles
II.

Chief Justice Reeves had been sent out from England to report on the
condition of the country; and his "History of the Government of Newfoundland"
shows that the ascendency so long maintained by a mercantile
monopoly for narrow and selfish purpose had prevented the settlement
of the country, the development of its resources, and the establishment
of a proper system for the administration of government.

Soon afterwards, in 1796, Admiral Waldegrave was appointed governor.
The merchants of Burin complained to him that some of their fishermen
wanted to emigrate to Nova Scotia.

The merchants desired to prevent this.

Admiral Waldegrave reported thereon: "Unless these poor wretches
emigrate, they must starve; for how can it be otherwise, while the
merchant has the power of setting his own price on the supplies issued
to the fishermen and on the fish that the people catch for him?

Thus we see a set of unfortunate beings worked like slaves, and hazarding
their lives, when at the expiration of their term (_however
successful their exertions_) they find themselves not only without
gain, but so deeply indebted as forces them to emigrate or drive
them to despair."

He further relates how the merchants refused to allow a tax of sixpence
per gallon on rum, to help them to defray administrative expenses; and
he describes the merchants as "opposed to every measure of government
which a governor may think proper to propose for the general benefit
of the island."

But even this Governor Waldegrave, though he so clearly saw the true
cause of the evil, sternly refused the only remedy within reach, which
was to grant the poor wretches the right to use the waste, uncultivated
land which existed in so great abundance round about them.

He was so far from doing this that, when about to leave, he put on
record, in 1799, for the use of his successor, that he had made no
promise of any grant of land, save one to the officer commanding
the troops, and that was not to be held by any other person.

That is the way in which Britain's Tories have cared for her
colonies.

Hatton and Harvey say: "In many of the smaller and more remote settlements
successive generations lived and died without education and religious
teaching of any kind. The lives of the people were rendered hard and
miserable for the express purpose of driving them away. The governors
of those days considered that loyalty to England rendered it imperative
on them to depopulate Newfoundland."
How did England stand meanwhile towards the other nation, that of
France, which had claims on Newfoundland? This country had exercised its
right to replace the Bourbons by the republic, just as England had
replaced the Stuarts by the Guelphs.

But the Germans and Austrians had insolently interfered in the private
affairs of France, and so made a military leader, in the person
of Napoleon Bonaparte, absolutely indispensable for the protection of
the country against foreign foes.

No sooner was Napoleon seated on the consular throne--he had not then
become emperor--than he addressed a letter to King George III., urging
the restoration of peace. "The war which has ravaged for eight years the
four quarters of the globe, is it," he asks, "to be eternal?" "France
and England," he concludes, "may, by the abuse of their strength, still
for a time retard the period of their exhaustion; but I will venture
to say the fate of all civilized nations is attached to the termination
of a war which involves the whole world."
And what did England's Tory king answer? He intrusted the reply to Grenville,
who was then the British minister for foreign affairs, and wrote
to the Consul Bonaparte that, while his Britannic Majesty did not
positively make the restoration of the Bourbons an indispensable condition
of peace, nor claim to prescribe to France her form of government, he
would intimate that only the one was likely to secure the other,
and that he had not sufficient respect for her new ruler to entertain
his proposals. Can we wonder that after so insolent a letter the first
consul became emperor?

France is quite as proud as England; and the insolence of the Guelph, in
presuming to insinuate that her first consul was not as good as he,
was quite enough to provoke her into making the consul her emperor,
and doing her best to chastise her insulters. Charles James Fox, in
Parliament, pronounced the royal answer "odiously and absurdly wrong";
but the squires and borough-mongers of the House of Commons supported
the action of the king by a majority of 265 to 64.

It is for such infamies as this that Newfoundland has even to-day to bear
all the inconveniences of the French claims on their shores. I do not
blame the French for insisting that England shall scuttle out of
Egypt before she yields her claims in Newfoundland; but it is the
responsible English, and not the innocent Newfoundlanders, who ought
to pay the cost, and the conduct of England in insisting that
Newfoundland shall bear the burden is cowardly and mean beyond all
expression.

While the Tories were thus hurling England into war, it is interesting
to observe how the Guelphs conducted it. The Duke of York, with a
generalship worthy of his family, led an army of British and Russian
soldiers into a captivity from which they could only be redeemed by the
surrender of prisoners taken on the sea by _real_ Englishmen.

Englishmen were taxed in order to give the German despots money
wherewith to fight the French. Austria received for one campaign more
money than England had to pay even for the "Alabama" claims, and the czar
of Russia received £900,000 for the eight months his troops were in the
field.

During the same war the king's second son, the same Duke of York who had
given so characteristic a sample of Guelph generalship in leading his
forces to defeat, gave an equally characteristic specimen of
Guelph morality. He had for mistress one Mary Ann Clarke, a woman of low
origin, who transferred her intimacy to a Colonel Wardle, and confided
to him many of the secrets of her relations to the royal duke. Wardle,
on Jan. 27, 1809, affirmed in the House of Commons that the Duke
of York had permitted Mrs.

Clarke to carry on a traffic in commissions and promotions, and
demanded a public inquiry.
Mrs. Clarke was examined at the bar of the House of Commons for several
weeks, displaying a shameless, witty impudence that drew continual
applause and laughter from a mob of English _gentlemen_, many of whom
knew her too well. The charges were proved, and the Duke of York resigned
his position as commander-in-chief; and the disclosures made--doctors
of divinity suing for bishoprics, and priests for preferment, at the
feet of a harlot, kissing her palm with coin--may teach Englishmen what
they have to guard against even to-day on the part of that Tory party
that has religion, conscience, and morality much more on its lips than
in its heart.

It is not altogether irrelevant in this connection to mention that in
1825, when the Catholic relief bill had passed the House of Commons by
268 votes against 241, the Duke of York opposed the repeal of the
Catholic disabilities by the common Tory appeal to what they call
conscience, saying "these were the principles to which he would
adhere, and which he would maintain and act up to, to the latest
moment of his life existence, whatever might be his situation in
life, _so help him God_."

England has indeed had to pay dearly for her hereditary monarchy, and
for the awful hypocrisy which permits the appeal to God by such
State Churchmen as the Duke of York to have any effect on politics.

I need hardly say that the House of Lords did with the Catholic Emancipation
Bill what it has lately done with the House of Commons Bill for Home Rule
in Ireland, and threw it out.

While England was fighting France, she had also to fight the United
States. It is an episode of which neither country has any reason to be
proud. The New Englanders were mostly opposed to the declaration
of war. The average Englishman knows little about it. He is taught by
his history books that the victory of the "Shannon" over the "Chesapeake"
destroyed the prestige of the American navy; and he is wrong even in
that.

The "Shannon" had a brave and able commander, and had been many weeks
at sea, so that Captain Broke had been able to train his men thoroughly,
and, above all things, to prevent them from getting drunk.

Captain Lawrence had to engage many men who had never been on a
war-vessel before, and did not know how to work the guns.

Many of the sailors had bottles of rum in their pockets, and were too
drunk to stand when their ship got within fighting distance of the
"Shannon."
I wish our present Secretary of the Navy would learn the lesson,
and now, when the need of the Newfoundlanders is so great, and when
we require sober men to man our navy, give the brave fishermen of
that island every reasonable inducement to enlist in our service.

The war closed unsatisfactorily, by the mediation of the Emperor
Alexander of Russia; and the Treaty of Ghent left England mistress of
the seas.

The treaties of 1814 and 1815 gave England another opportunity for relieving
Newfoundland from the French control of her shore; but the Tories were
at the helm, and became fellow-conspirators with other tyrants of Europe
in perpetrating the most monstrous wrong and the completest restoration
of despotism that was conceivable, in Germany, Austria, Italy, Spain,
everywhere.

They insulted France by imposing upon her the rule of a Bourbon, and
to this Bourbon they guaranteed those rights over Newfoundland on
which the French republic bases its claims to-day.

Let us now turn to Newfoundland itself.

While the nations were fighting, its merchants had enjoyed the monopoly
of the cod-fisheries.
Some of the capitalists had secured profits between £20,000 and £40,000
a year each, but they made the poor fishermen pay eight pounds a barrel
for flour and twelve pounds a barrel for pork. They took their fortunes
to England. No effort was made to open up roads or extend agriculture;
for, if it had been done, the landlords of England would not have been
able to sell their pork and wheat at such exorbitant prices there.

So, when the war ceased and other nations were enabled to compete
in the fisheries, the colony had to pass through some years of disaster
and suffering, while the merchants were spending their exorbitant profits
in England.

The planters and fishermen had been in the habit of leaving their savings
in the hands of the St. John's merchants. Many of these failed, and the
hardly won money of the fishermen was swept away by the insolvency of
their bankers. It is estimated that the working class lost a sum little
short of £400,000 sterling.

Now, eighty years later, we have another instance of the same misfortunes,
proceeding from the same cause,--the fact that the money made by
the fishery has been taken off to England; that the banks, which
are altogether in the hands of the mercantile, or English, party,
have been unfaithful to their trust; and that the fishermen who
hold the bankers' notes get, from the one bank, 80 cents, and, from
the other, only 20 cents on the dollar.

The merchants applied for aid to the British government; and in June,
1817, a committee of the House of Commons met. The merchants had only two
remedies to propose. One was the granting of a bounty, to enable them to
compete with the French and the Americans, who were sustained by
bounties; but, although England was a protectionist country at that
time, it gave only bounties in favor of rich men, and not of the
poor.

The other was the deportation of the principal part of the inhabitants,
now numbering 70,000, to the neighboring colonies.

The honest, sensible, easy plan, that of opening up the land to
cultivation, so that the starving people might be able to grow their
own food and breed their own cattle, was the one thing that these
so-called practical Englishmen would not permit, because it might
interfere with the profits of the British land-owner and merchant.

At that very time the local authorities of Massachusetts were giving
a bounty for each Newfoundland fisherman brought into the State.

When Sir Thomas Cochrane was made governor in 1825, his
government made the first road in the island. For one hundred and
forty-five years England had been master of the island, and not a
single road had been built suitable for wheeled carriages. Is it
conceivable that the French would so completely have neglected the
colony if they had been its masters?

In 1832, when the Reform Bill put an end to the malign influence of
Tory ascendency in England, Newfoundland also gained the boon of
representative government; but it was only a merchants' government.

The people who elected the House of Assembly did not dare to vote against
the will of the merchants for fear of losing employment; and, while
their representatives had the power of debating, passing measures, and
voting moneys, the Council, which was composed of nominees of the crown,
selected exclusively from the merchant class, could throw out all their
measures, and were irresponsible to the people.

In England King George IV. had rendered only one service to the people,--he
had brought royalty into contempt, and so strengthened the feeling
which resulted in the passage of many necessary measures which his
father and brothers had opposed. But the selfish interests of the
merchants and land-owners of England were still in the way of many reforms.
Benjamin Disraeli, who did his worst to prevent the starving
people from having cheap bread, became the flunkey and afterward the
master of the Tory squires; and it was not until thousands had died
of famine in Ireland that the selfish land-owners agreed to that reduction
of duty on grain which made free trade so popular in England.

Now, by a wise colonization policy, the government might have helped
both Ireland and Newfoundland.

By passing a law to the effect that, so long as the French gave a bounty
on the export of salt fish, the English government would give their
own fishermen exactly the same amount of protection, the French would
soon have been brought to terms; and, by opening up Newfoundland to
settlement by roads and railways, many of the starving Irish would have
been provided with homes under the British flag far more comfortable
than any that they could find in their native land.

So a more prosperous Ireland would have risen on this side of the
Atlantic, and England would have gained thereby.

The Irish and the Catholic were really quite as loyal to the empire as any
others.
As soon as the people saw the boat, they rushed
towards us holding out their arms.  We told Bell to shout to them and
say that we could take only a few at a time, but would return for the
rest, and that we must save the women and children first.  The men did
not seem to understand this, and we literally had to drive them back,
while we dragged in the poor women, mostly with infants or young
children in their arms.  With these we could carry many more, and we got
on board upwards of twenty.  Those who remained shrieked and cried,
wringing their hands and pointing to the flames as we shoved off.

We bent to our oars as well as we could, crowded as the boat was, and
made our way back to the brig.  The crew stood ready to haul the poor
people upon deck.

"You might venture to send another boat, sir," cried Uncle Jack; "there
is no sign of wind, and many more might be saved."

He did not stop, however, for the captain's answer, but the moment the
women and children were out of the boat away we pulled again for the
land.  We had not got far when, to my satisfaction, I saw that another
boat had been lowered, and before we reached the shore she overtook us,
under the charge of Mr Crowfoot.

Uncle Jack warned him not to overload his boat.  We followed the same
plan as before, taking in this time several men, which brought the boat
down deep in the water, although we had fewer persons on board than on
the first trip.  It was piteous to hear the cries of the poor wretches
we were compelled to leave behind.  Their village had disappeared, and
the flames were seizing on every tree and bush up to the inner part of
the rocky point.  At any moment a fiery shower might come falling down
and envelope them.  The heat was greater than ever, and the dust and
ashes, which came showering down upon upon us, almost overpowering.
Uncle Jack, thinking only of saving life, scarcely heeded this.  Again
we pulled back to the brig.

"You have done enough, Radburn.  Your lives will be endangered if you
return," cried the captain.

"Only one more trip!  Just let me take one more trip, sir," answered the
first mate.

The captain could not refuse.  The boatswain followed us.  We reached
the little bay in safety.  As I looked up at the mountain I saw that the
eruption had become more violent than ever.  The lurid flames, casting a
light over the whole bland, enabled us to see objects as clearly as in
the day-time.  We were engaged in taking the people in, our boat was
almost full, when Uncle Jack cried out, hauling in another poor man as
he did so.

"Shove off, pull away for your lives, my lads!"

Looking up for an instant I saw that a fresh outbreak of the mountain
was taking place.  Stones, cinders, and ashes came bursting through the
air, and crashing down not many hundred yards it seemed from where we
lay.  The ocean, too, was fearfully agitated, and wave upon wave with
loud roars rolled towards the beach.  The people on shore stretched out
their arms imploring us to take them in, but we could not save them.
Had we attempted it our destruction would have been inevitable.  The
boat's head had been got round, and we pulled as we had never pulled
before.  The fearful shower rapidly increased.  A boiling sea washed
over the point, and the hapless beings who stood there disappeared.  Not
a cry was heard, their death had been instantaneous.  Even those who had
endeavoured to escape by swimming must have been in a moment
overwhelmed.  Fast as we pulled, the shower of ashes from the mountain
seemed to be following us still faster, and we could see that the shower
stretched away even towards the ship.

Happily the calm continued, and we succeeded in getting on board.  The
poor people we had rescued, while profuse in expressing their thanks to
us, gave vent to their grief at the loss of their relations and friends.
We understood also from them that there were other villages in the
interior, which, with all their inhabitants, must have been utterly
destroyed.

We afterwards heard that two thousand persons perished.  The people on
board were of the Malay race, and, except through our interpreters, Ned
and Charley, we could not understand a word they said; indeed, the two
seamen could only partly make out their language.  We ourselves were not
altogether satisfied with our position.  A strong wind might spring up
and drive us on shore, and we were still so near the volcano that it
might cover us, not only with ashes, but with huge masses of rock and
stones, which might come crashing down upon us and send us to the
bottom.  All hands were on deck ready to trim sails the moment the wind
should come.  We had not long to wait.  A loud rushing sound was heard.
The canvas gave several loud flaps.  The captain had feared that the
heat from the burning island might draw the wind towards us.  So it did,
but, happily for us, it came from the north-west, though we could not
tell to what quarter it might suddenly shift.

The yards were braced up on the starboard tack, and we stood away from
the island, with the blazing forests on our port-quarter.

The captain's great object now was to get a good offing from Sanguir.
He did not intend to bear up for Menado until daylight.  It was
important that we should reach it without delay to land our passengers,
as they would soon exhaust our water and provisions.  We did our best to
attend to the poor people, but they would not be comforted.  They
thought of their homes and relatives destroyed, and knew not what
hardships they might have to endure.  As we got to a distance from the
island we could see far away to the southward another bright blaze which
rose from the volcano of Sias, also in a state of eruption.  On looking
at the chart we saw that there was a line of many others, some in the
northern end of Celebes, others in Gillolo, extending northward and all
the way round to the west through Java.  We could only hope that those
in the direction to which we were steering might not also burst forth.
The wind continued favourable and moderate.  When the people heard from
Ned where we were going they were in a great fright, declaring that the
inhabitants were "head hunters," and that they should all be killed.

When Ned told me this I inquired of the captain if they had any
foundation for their fears.  He replied that formerly the inhabitants of
that part of Celebes were as savage as those of other portions, but that
the Dutch have used every possible means to civilise them by giving them
employment, introducing commerce, establishing schools, and sending
missionaries among them, and that thus a wilderness, inhabited by naked
savages, who were wont to garnish their rude houses with human heads,
had been converted into a smiling region, with a civilised community.

The next day we made the northern end of Celebes, for which we were
steering, and before dark anchored off the pretty little town of Menado.
As we looked at it from our anchorage we could see rows of rustic
houses, with broad paths between them forming streets, mostly at right
angles with each other.

In several directions roads branched off towards the interior, also
lined by a succession of cottages surrounded by gardens and plantations.
The captain and Blyth immediately went on shore to visit the President
or Governor, who, on hearing what had happened, allowed us to land our
passengers, promising to look after them, and give them plenty of
employment if they were inclined to labour.  We were thankful to get
them out of the brig, and their fears being dissipated when they saw the
civilised state of the country, they thanked us for the kindness shown
them, and we parted good friends.

We afterwards called on an English merchant long settled here, who
assured us that the people would be well cared for and sent back should
they wish it to Sanguir, when information could be received that the
volcano was once more at rest.  The chief production of the district is
coffee, of which we shipped a considerable quantity as freight.  We
found the account given by the captain in no way exaggerated, and we
could easily believe, as asserted, that the inhabitants are the most
industrious, peaceable, and civilised, that they are better educated,
better clothed, better housed, and better fed of any of the natives of
the vast archipelago.  Commerce, a paternal, though somewhat despotic
Government, and education, combined with Christian missionary effort,
has worked the wonderful change in less than forty years.  Our friend,
who had a house in the country, took Mr Blyth and me up to see his
plantations, as also a menagerie which he had formed.  In passing a
piece of open ground we caught sight of a number of animals, which I
supposed to be dogs.  They were making their way towards an orchard.

"The rascals!" exclaimed our friend, "they are on a predatory
expedition, intending to steal the fruit from yonder trees."

Jumping off his horse, and taking his gun, which his servant carried, he
ran towards them.  They did not appear to notice him until he was within
shot of them.  He fired, when one fell and the rest took to flight,
quickly scrambling up the trees of the forest, which extended towards us
to within a short distance where they were lost to sight.  On examining
the creature he had killed I found it to be about the size of a spaniel,
of a jet black colour, with the projecting dog-like muzzle and
overhanging brows of a baboon.  It had large callosities, and a scarcely
visible tail, not an inch in length.

Our friend told us that these creatures were monkeys, though more like
baboons, that descending from the trees where they live, they often
invade orchards and gardens, and commit great havoc.  Our friend's house
was something like an Indian bungalow, though of rougher materials, and
was surrounded by a fine garden and orchard, with extensive plantations
in the rear.  I cannot describe more than two of the animals in his
menagerie.  One was the Tapiutan, which from its appearance I could not
say whether it should be called a cow, a buffalo, or an antelope.  It
was of the size of a very small Highland cow, and had long straight
horns, which were ringed at the base, and sloped backwards over the
neck.

The strangest animal he showed us was called the Babirusa, which
resembled in general appearance a pig, but it had long and slender legs,
and tusks curved upwards so as to look like horns.  Those of the lower
jaw were long and sharp, but the upper ones grew upwards out of bony
sockets through the skin on each side of the snout, curving backwards to
near the eyes, and were ten inches long.  Our friend told us that it is
found over the whole island.  He supposed the object of the curling
tusks was to preserve the eyes of the animal when searching for the
fallen fruits on which it lives among the tangled thickets of spring
plants.  Though the female does not possess them, perhaps the male
gallantly clears the way for her so as to render them unnecessary.
However, I must not stop to give a longer description of this
interesting place, or many others we saw; I indeed made only two trips
ashore, as I had to be on board attending to my duty.


CHAPTER FIVE.

Once more the anchor was weighed, and we were about to stand out of the
picturesque bay of Menado the moment a boat, in which Mr Blyth had gone
on shore to bring off a supply of fresh provisions, returned.

Ned, who had been one of the crew, as soon as the sails were set, came
up to me.  "I've just heard something, sir, which may or may not be of
importance," he said.  "I was talking to one of the men we brought off
from Sanguir, when he confessed to me that he had been on board the
prahu which took me off the shore where we were wrecked.  I think he
spoke the truth when he told me how I kicked when the pirates made me
take an oar and pull with the black fellows they had, I suppose, made
slaves of.  I asked him if he could tell me where the place was.  He
answered that it was on the shores of a large island--a very large one,
I should think, and away somewhere to the eastward, for he pointed in
that direction, though I could not make out exactly how far off it was."

I was deeply interested, and told him that he ought to have brought the
man on board that we might have examined him more particularly with the
aid of Bell and Kalong.

"He would have been afraid to trust himself, sir," answered Ned; "as he
owned that he had been a pirate, he was afraid that the captain or the
Dutch might punish him."

I immediately communicated what I had heard to the first mate, who told
the captain.  They sent for Ned, who, as he said that he had got all the
information he could out of the Malay, they did not propose putting
back, as I fancied they would have done.  I do not think that the
captain was sanguine about finding any of the "Amphion's" crew, though
Uncle Jack kept up his hopes and mine.

"It may be like looking for a needle in a bundle of hay; still, if we
search long enough, the needle will be found," he remarked.  "As long as
the captain will agree we will continue the search."

Rounding the northern end of Celebes, we crossed the Molucca passage for
Ternate, where we were to call.  It is a small island off the coast of
the large but little known one of Gillolo.  As we approached we saw
rising out of the sea in a line several conical-shaped mountains, four
thousand feet in height, one of which the captain said was Ternate, for
which we were bound.  Passing between that island and Tidore, of even
greater height, we anchored before the town which stretches along the
shore, while the mountain overhanging it was clothed to a considerable
height with trees and spice plantations.  The scenery was truly
magnificent, but as we thought of the eruption of Sanguir, we saw in
what a moment the whole town and neighbourhood might be reduced to
desolation should an eruption burst forth from the mountains which rose
so grandly above our heads.  We remained here four days, during which an
earthquake--an event of frequent occurrence--took place.

I grudged every moment's delay, and was thankful when we once more were
steering southward.  We were sailing on with a light breeze through a
perfectly smooth sea, when a dull roaring sound was heard, like a heavy
surf astern.  The roar rapidly increased, and we saw a white line of
foam rolling on.  Thinking that it might be the precursor of a
hurricane, we clewed up the topsails, but as the wave passed we rode
easily over it with the same sort of movement which is felt when
entering a river across a bar.  It was followed with a short interval by
another of similar character, succeeded with greater rapidity by ten or
twelve more, when the sea became as smooth as before.  The captain had
no doubt that these waves were caused by an earthquake occurring at some
distance to the northward.  While at Ternate we heard that a suspicious
fleet of large prahus had been seen steering to the southward.  It was
intended, should a Dutch man-of-war arrive, to send her to watch their
proceedings.  We were advised to keep a sharp look-out for the pirates,
and avoid them if we could.  "If they think you are Dutch, they'll be
cautious how they molest you; but if they suppose that you belong to any
other nation, they are very likely to try and plunder you, as they are
aware that no men-of-war except those of the Dutch are accustomed to
cruise in these seas," said our friend, an English merchant residing in
the place.

Captain Haiselden thanked his informant, and replied that we had already
fallen in with such gentry, and knew how to deal with them.

"But these are larger and more formidable craft than those by which you
were before attacked.  If they once get alongside your brig, you will
find it a difficult matter to beat them off," was the reply.

Wherever we touched we made inquiries about the "Amphion," but as yet we
had only the information gained through Ned from the Sanguir Malay to
guide us.  She might have been lost at Gillolo itself, and yet the Dutch
might not have heard of it, as but very irregular intercourse is kept up
between the different parts of that little known island.

Proceeding south we passed between the islands of Bouro and Ceram,
calling at Amboina and Banda, spice islands belonging to the Dutch.

We were steering to the east when land was sighted from the mast-head on
the starboard bow.  I went aloft.  It was a small island, one of many
extending directly across our course.  Intending to pass to the
northward of it we luffed up a little, when, after standing on some way
further, I was again sent to the mast-head, to see if I could discover
any intervening coral reefs or any others running out from it.  I could
discover no variation of colour in the sea to indicate the existence of
hidden reefs in our course, but my eye fell on a dark object, a mile, or
it may have been less, from the shore.  At the first glance I thought it
was a rock rising out of the water, but on descending to the cross-trees
and looking through my glass I saw that the object was a ship on a reef,
heeling over to one side, with, as far as I could make out, her
topmasts, if not her lower masts, gone; at all events she had no canvas
set.  On coming down to the deck, I told the first mate, who had charge
of the watch, and he went aloft and had a look at her also.

"She's in a dangerous position, and I fear is wrecked," he observed.
"We must get up to her, and try to render her assistance.  If she's not
to be got off, we shall have to take her people on board."

"Has she been driven by a gale on the reef, do you think?"  I asked.

"No; I should say that she was brought up by it, and that the tide has
since fallen, leaving her in her present position, so that when it rises
she may be got off."

While we were speaking the sails gave several flaps against the masts, a
sign that the wind had suddenly fallen, and we lay becalmed.  This was
the more tantalising as we were anxious to go to the assistance of the
ship.

I went below to inform the captain, who at once came on deck, and, after
looking round the horizon, said that he thought a breeze would soon
again spring up, and that we would then stand towards the ship and see
what we could do, adding, "in the meantime, as the tide rises she may
probably haul off without our assistance."

"I should like to take one of the boats and pull on board her," observed
Uncle Jack.

"As it must be several hours before you could be back again, the weather
might in the meantime change; so that I cannot consent to your going,"
answered the captain, in a tone which prevented the first mate from
making a reply.

Still Uncle Jack, not satisfied, walked the deck uneasily.  He wished at
once to relieve the anxiety of those on board the ship by letting them
know that assistance was near should they not have observed the brig.

Hour after hour passed by, darkness came on, and still no breeze ruffled
the surface of the ocean.  All night long the calm continued.

As soon as daylight broke, I was again aloft looking out for the ship.
There she lay in the same position as before; it was evident that
whatever exertions had been made to get her off, they had been
unsuccessful.  I was about to come on deck again, when, sweeping my
glass round to the northward, I made out another island of large size
apparently.  Between it and where the ship lay I fancied that I could
distinguish a number of small black dots, so faint, however, that had I
not steadied my glass, which was a very good one, I should not have
observed them.  Recollecting what we had heard about the pirate fleet, a
fear seized me at once that they might be prahus, and that they were on
their way to pillage the wreck, which they must have discovered while
lying off the northern island.  Whether they had discovered us it was
impossible to say, but they certainly would do so when the sun rose and
shone on our canvas.

I at once came down and told the first mate, who took a hurried glance
round the horizon in the hopes of discovering the signs of a coming
breeze.

"I must get the captain to let me take a boat to warn the crew of the
ship of their danger, and to assist them if they are attacked," he
exclaimed.  "We may get there before the prahus, which do not pull as
fast as they can sail, and a few well-armed men may turn the scale
against them; but I'll have a look at them first."

Taking the glass he sprang aloft.  Directly afterwards the captain
appeared and asked him what he was looking at.  I told him.

"I hope we shall get a breeze, for if the pirates, as I suppose they
are, see us boldly standing towards them, they will hesitate before they
meddle with the wreck," he remarked, now apparently as anxious about the
vessel on shore as we had been.  "It may have a good effect if we hoist
a pendant and the Dutch flag and fire a gun.  They will take us for a
man-of-war, and probably be off again as fast as they can pull; but it
is the breeze we want, the breeze!  Without that we are helpless."

The first mate soon came down from aloft and again proffered his
request.

"I dare not give you leave," answered the captain.  "What could one or
even two boats do against those prahus, with twenty or thirty well-armed
men in each?  You might be cut off, even before you could reach the
wreck; and if you were on board, you would be able to do but little to
defend her, as in the position she lies she could not work her guns if
she had any."

I was almost surprised at the way Uncle Jack pleaded to be allowed to
go.

"It is impossible," replied the captain, "I could not reconcile it to my
conscience.  We might lose half the ship's company, and be unable to
defend the brig ourselves."

I never saw the first mate so put out as he was at this answer.  He
turned away and continued walking the deck with uneasy strides until he
seemed almost beside himself.  He again went aloft and stood watching
the prahus through his glass, occasionally turning his eye round the
horizon, and then he shouted, "A breeze!  A breeze coming up from the
south-west!"  The next instant down he slid on deck.

The vessel's head, which had been turning now to one point of the
compass now to another, was fortunately just then turned in the right
way.

The captain kept a sharp look-out in the direction from whence the wind
was coming, to judge whether it was likely to be a strong or a light
breeze.

"Set the royals, Radburn.  We need not be afraid of it."

The order was quickly obeyed.  Scarcely were the sails sheeted home than
they blew gently out.  The topgallant-sails did the same; the topsails
soon filled.  The brig gathering way steered a little to the northward
so as to intercept the prahus.

We were thankful for the breeze, but we would rather have avoided a
struggle.

"You'll have the studding-sails set, sir?" said Uncle Jack, scarcely
waiting for an answer before he gave the order, and sprang forward to
assist in carrying it out.

We soon had the studding-sails below and aloft, still the brig did not
move along as rapidly as we wished.  By this time the pirates might have
seen us, as the sun was shining brightly on our royals and
topgallant-sails, though we could not make them out except from aloft.

We were not long in manufacturing a Dutch pennant, which was run up to
the main-royal mast-head.  It was doubtful, however, whether it would be
seen, or, if seen, have the effect we hoped for.  The pirates, observing
how light the wind was, would know that they could pull away beyond our
reach.

Again and again Uncle Jack went aloft, until we got near enough to
distinguish not only the ship on the reef but the prahus from the deck,
which were approaching fearfully near her; the guns were loaded and the
small arms got ready for immediate use.  Most of the men were ready
enough for a fight, if a fight was to take place, but the second mate
looked downcast as usual, and I heard him muttering--

"We have enough to do to look after ourselves, without fighting for
other people."

This was said for the first mate to hear, but Uncle Jack turned away
without making any observation.

The prahus, although we must have been seen, still continued their
course.  Sometimes the hope came across me that they might not be
intending to attack the ship ashore; but it was scarcely to be thought
that they were going to render her assistance.  As we examined them
through our glasses, we could see that they were large war prahus with
numerous crews.  The breeze filled our sails, but continued light as at
first, and we had done all that was possible to make the brig move
through the water.

Two prahus, apparently the fastest, were leading, and were already
scarcely more than two miles off, while we were at a much greater
distance.  They would be up to the ship in twenty minutes or so, and it
would take them but a fearfully short time to perform their work of
murder and pillage if they were so minded.  Still we hoped that the crew
would fight, and, at all events, keep them at bay until we could come
up.  The pirates were calculating, it was evident, on the wind falling,
of which there appeared every probability.  Several times the lower
canvas had given some ominous flaps against the masts, while the
studding-sails hung down from the booms emptied of wind; still the
royals filled and forced the brig along.

Our glasses were constantly turned, now towards the ship on shore, now
towards the pirate fleet.  It showed great hardihood on the part of the
Malays that they should still continue their course, while our vessel,
which they must have supposed to be a man-of-war, was so close to them.
They were trusting, we thought, to their numbers, and to the rapidity
with which they could make their escape among the coral reefs, where no
sailing vessel could follow them.  They were getting closer and closer,
while we were making scarcely two knots an hour through the water.  What
means of defence the ship might possess we could not tell.  Even if she
had guns she would, as the captain remarked, be unable to work them with
her deck inclined as it now was.  We could only hope that the tide was
rising, and that if so she might get on an even keel, although her crew
might not be able to haul her off.

We carried, I should have said, a light whale boat, remarkable for her
speed; she pulled four oars, and held three persons besides.  The wind
provokingly tantalised us, now it filled the sails and then again
allowed them to hang loosely down from the yards.

I had gone forward with the first mate that we might watch the ship and
the headmost of the prahus.  He several times sent me aft that I might
take a look astern to see if there were any signs of the breeze
increasing.  On each occasion I had to make the same report.

"She's lifting, she's lifting?" exclaimed Uncle Jack, at length; "see,
she's making signals.  Run, Harry, and get the signal book, we will try
and learn what she is saying."

I quickly returned with the book, but the wind was so light that the
flags did not blow out.  "A breath of air for a single moment would
enable us to see what they are," observed the first mate, watching them
through his telescope.  Just then one flag flew out, it was to signify
that the others made the number of the ship.  I turned to the right
place in the signal book; presently all the flags flew out together, it
was but for an instant.  The first mate rapidly turned over the pages.

"I feared so from the first," he exclaimed; "the captain cannot refuse
to let me go, she is the `Iris.'  The pirates have a current against
them, or they would have made faster progress.  We'll get on board
before them yet.  Who will volunteer, lads?"

Several of the men replied, "I'm ready!"

We hurried aft, and he entreated the captain to let him have the whale
boat.  At first I thought the captain was going to refuse.

"We may still hope to be up in time to attack the prahus, and they will
not long stand the fire from our guns," he answered.  "I don't like to
risk your life and those of the people you may take with you."

"I'll take care that we are not caught by them, and I hope that we shall
get on board before they can reach the ship," said the first mate.

"Remember, Radburn, the lives of the boat's crew are committed to your
charge, and though I shall be glad to help Captain Bingley, you must
turn back rather than risk an encounter in the boat with the pirates."

"I will do as you order, sir," answered Uncle Jack, eagerly springing to
the falls and singing out for volunteers.

The captain, however, would positively allow only four hands to go,
including Ned and Bell, another Englishman, and a Malay.  I entreated
that I might accompany him, and Blyth volunteered.  The captain gave me
leave, though Uncle Jack hesitated.  Several more of the men came aft.

"It cannot be," said the captain, "we must keep hands enough to fight
the brig."

While the boat was being lowered, arms were collected; each man stuck a
brace of pistols in his belt, and we had muskets, cutlasses, and several
pikes.  The captain would not allow us to take more, observing justly
that they might be required on board the brig.  We really had no reason
to complain of his readiness to assist out friends.  Not a minute had
elapsed before we were ready, and getting out the oars away we pulled,
the first mate, of course, steering.

We steered slightly to the south as the current was setting north, which
of course made the distance longer.  I could not help confessing to
myself that it was very doubtful whether we should reach the ship before
the prahus.

While the mate steered, Blyth and I employed ourselves in loading the
arms.  Our men pulled as hard as they could bend their backs to the
oars.  They believed that if we could once gain the ship's deck, that we
should succeed in driving back the pirates as well as we had done on
board the brig.  We could not tell whether we had been seen from the
prahus, but those on board the ship would, we hoped, make out the signal
hoisted at the mast-head of the "Lily," that a boat was coming to their
assistance, and that this would encourage them to defend themselves
should they be attacked before we could reach them.  I had never before
felt the intense anxiety I now experienced, and I knew how Uncle Jack
must be feeling.

We were now rapidly nearing both the leading prahus and the ship, and we
could even distinguish the fighting men on the decks of the former, with
their gingalls and muskets or spears in their hands, though we could not
make out whether they had any guns in their bows.

Captain Bingley had laughed at our carrying so many guns, and Uncle Jack
said that when the "Iris" sailed she had only two six-pounders for
firing signals.  Whether others had afterwards been shipped he could not
tell; even the two small ones it was possible might have been hove
overboard to lighten the ship.

As I before said the tide was rising, and we remarked that the "Iris"
had lifted considerably since we left the brig.  I need not say that I
very often turned my eyes towards the "Lily" to see if she was moving
faster than before.  Though still gliding on through the smooth water,
it was at a slow pace.  Already the leading prahus were within a quarter
of a mile of the ship, when their crews ceased rowing.  In a short time
we saw that it was only to allow some of the others to come up,
apparently that they might make their attack together.  The delay was of
advantage to us.  We were near enough to see our friends, who had been
anxiously watching us, waving signals from the forecastle.  They of
course knew who we were.  I thought I saw two female dresses.  I could
hardly be mistaken.  But presently they disappeared; probably Captain
Bingley had ordered his wife and daughter below to be out of the way of
any missiles the pirates might discharge.

"We shall do it, we shall do it.  Give way, my fine lads!" cried Uncle
Jack; and the crew pulled until I feared they might spring their oars.

We had another danger to encounter, that of running on any intervening
coral reefs, and the first mate stood up that he might obtain as far a
view as possible ahead.  I had been so engaged in watching the prahus,
that I had not for some minutes looked at the brig.

"Hurrah!"  I shouted, "she's got the breeze at last, and is coming on
bravely."

"Thank heaven!" exclaimed Uncle Jack.

At that moment the fighting men on board two of the prahus, which had
again got ahead of the others, began firing away at the ship.  Not a
shot was returned from her.  This made me fear that she had no means of
defence.  On we dashed; even now we might be on board before the prahus
got alongside.  We were, it should be understood, approaching on the
port bow, towards which, for obvious reasons, the mate had steered.  The
next instant we had hooked on, ladders and ropes were lowered down to
enable us to get on board.

"Hoist in the boat, or the pirates may get her!"  I heard Captain
Bingley shout out.

She was dropped under the davits.  We found only, besides Captain
Bingley and the mates, half a dozen of the men with firearms, the others
had either pikes or boat-hooks, or such weapons as might serve for a
hand-to-hand tussle, but could not have prevented the pirates from
boarding.  We had no time to ask questions, for two of the prahus were
almost alongside; hurrying across the deck, we stood with our muskets
pointed at them, telling Ned to shout in a loud voice and threaten them
with a fearful retribution should they attack us.  As they still came on
we fired a well-aimed volley at the two nearest, bringing several of
their warriors to the deck, while we quickly again loaded.  In another
instant they might have been attempting to clamber up the sides of the
ship, when the people on board the other prahus saw the approach of the
brig, which almost immediately opened fire with her long gun run out
through her bow port.  A panic on this seized most of the fleet, and
pulling round away they went, leaving their leaders to their fate.  The
latter seeing themselves deserted, cast off and pulled away with all
their might, their object being to avoid the which continued firing her
long gun as fast as it could be loaded.  We and the crew of the "Iris"
raised a loud cheer as we saw that we had driven off our foes.  Though
we had had happily but little fighting, Uncle Jack had no doubt by his
promptitude saved the ship from being boarded, when in a few minutes
every one belonging to her might have been put to death.

Captain Bingley, hurrying up to Uncle Jack and grasping his hand,
exclaimed--

"You have saved our lives, Radburn.  I thank you from my heart, and
there are those below who desire to thank you too."

He then thanked Blyth and me, and our boat's crew, who undoubtedly
deserved it from the way they had pulled.

I found that a cable had been carried out astern, and that preparations
had been made for hauling off the ship at high water, which, as the sea
had remained perfectly calm, the captain hoped to do without her having
suffered material damage.  She was now rapidly regaining her
perpendicular position, and in a few minutes would be on an even keel.
The brig, after following the pirates for a short distance, had hove to
Captain Haiselden had no fancy for running in among the rocks.

Jack Radburn was soon on deck.  "They are all right, I am thankful to
say," he observed to me; "they want to thank you and Mr Blyth as soon
as you can go below, for coming to their assistance."

By this time, the tide having risen, the ship was once more perfectly
upright.  The capstan palls were shipped, away we tramped round and
round, straining every nerve.  In vain we hove, the cable was strained
to its utmost, but not an inch did we move.  I saw the captain and his
mates making long faces as if they thought that the ship was
irretrievably lost.  Uncle Jack cheered on the men.  Already all the
water had been started, and some of the heavy part of the cargo.

"Never fear, lads," he shouted, "we must heave a few more packages
overboard if we don't move soon; but try again, lads, try again."

We pressed against the capstan bars with all our might.  Just then I
felt her start.

"She moves, she moves!" burst from every mouth.

I shall never forget the delight we felt.  Round went the capstan bars.
Again and again we cheered.

We were dragging her off, it must be understood, stern first, exactly as
she had come on, so that had any coral points existed they must have
been torn away.  By persevering, in a few minutes she was afloat; and by
means of a hawser secured to the cable, it was brought round to the
bows, and the ship rode safely at anchor.


CHAPTER SIX.

On finding the ship afloat the crew in their joy shook hands all round.
There was enough work, however, to be done.  The carpenter first sounded
the well.

No more water than usual was found in her.  It was hoped, therefore,
that she had not received any material damage.  We had, however, to get
up the topmasts and topgallant-masts, the yards across, to weigh the
anchors and guns, which had been hove overboard, and no end of other
work to accomplish.

We had not been long at anchor before the "Lily," furling sails, brought
up a short distance outside of us, and Captain Haiselden with a boat's
crew came on board.  In spite of the hot sun, we worked hard all day,
Uncle Jack, as may be supposed, setting us a good example.  Grace,
though pale from the alarm she had endured, was as blooming as ever.
"Why, I shouldn't have known you," she said, looking at me and coming up
to shake hands; "Mamma and I are so grateful to you for the assistance
you brought us."

She also thanked Mr Blyth in the same way, I saw that her eye was
ranging over the deck in search of Uncle Jack, who was working as hard
as any of the men to get the ship to rights.

As the weather was fine we remained at anchor during the night, keeping
a very bright look-out lest the pirates might come back; but impressed
with the idea that the brig was a Dutch man-of-war, without dreaming of
again attacking us, they were probably making the best of their way to
the northward, to escape the pursuit they expected.  By evening the next
day the ship was all _ataunto_.  Captain Haiselden, who had returned to
the "Lily," again came on board to hold a consultation as to our future
proceedings.  The "Iris," having started most of her water, had before
she could venture any distance from the land to procure a fresh supply.
The island on which she had been so nearly wrecked afforded none.  The
nearest places at which it certainly could be obtained were either at
Banda, to the west, or the coast of New Guinea to the east, which was
still much nearer.

Captain Bingley proposed sailing west for Banda, but when Captain
Haiselden told him that we had on board a man belonging to the
"Amphion," who stated that she had not been wrecked in the way described
by Howlett and Trinder, but had been driven on the shore of a large
island to the eastward, he exclaimed--

"Then, after all, that may have been the remains of the `Amphion'
herself, which we fancied we saw not a week ago, driven in among the
rocks on the coast of New Guinea."

He told us that the current had carried the "Iris" in with the coast
much closer than he intended to go; while endeavouring to haul off,
under a press of sail, one of the hands aloft declared that he saw what
looked like a vessel with her masts gone, inside a reef over which she
must have been driven.  The mates had both gone aloft.  The one agreed
that the man was right, the other, who looked as the first had done,
through a telescope, declaring that "although very like the shattered
hull of a ship, it was only a rock of a peculiar shape."  As the safety
of the "Iris" depended upon her clawing off the shore, it had been
impossible to make any further examination, and he had been inclined to
think that those who fancied they had seen a wreck were mistaken.  At
all events, if any of her crew had escaped on shore, he was not in a
position to render them any assistance.  I watched Uncle Jack's
countenance as Captain Bingley was speaking.  I guessed what was passing
in his mind, though he said nothing then.

"I wouldn't have passed a spot where I thought our countrymen were in
slavery without trying to help them," he remarked to me shortly
afterwards.  "We must go there, Harry, if Captain Bingley refuses to
come; our captain will I am sure do his best to visit the spot.  I don't
blame Captain Bingley, with his wife and daughter on board, for not
making the attempt to ascertain if that was really a wreck, though he
might have got a safe offing and then sent in a boat."

When Captain Bingley heard of the possibility of the wreck being the
"Amphion," he at once agreed to accompany the "Lily" to the
neighbourhood of the spot, and to make every effort to try and rescue
any of the crew who might be found on shore.

I rather suspect Grace and Mrs Bingley being present greatly influenced
him.  Not to run the risk of remaining at anchor in so dangerous a place
another night, we returned on board the "Lily," when both the brig and
ship made sail to the north-east, a course which would carry us close to
where the wreck had been seen.

According to the charts, not far off was a bay which had been visited by
ships, where abundance of good water could be found.  It was agreed,
should we discover a harbour, where it was said one existed, that we
would anchor within it and send the boats along the coast to the
neighbourhood of the wreck.

On the morning of the fourth day after the "Iris" had been got afloat,
land was sighted on the starboard bow, as also right ahead, extending
from the east a considerable distance to the west, forming apparently a
point running out from New Guinea.

Captain Bingley made a signal that the wreck was somewhere abreast of
us, but he advised that we should stand into the harbour as proposed.
Approaching nearer we made out several channels apparently between
islands, inside of which we might at all events find good anchorage.
Captain Haiselden offered to lead the way, and shortening sail, with the
lead going, we stood on.

The water was deep, the hills rising on either side of us covered with
the richest vegetation.  Rounding a point we presently found ourselves
in a beautiful land-locked harbour, from the sandy shore of which rose
heights, covered like the island with fine trees of varied foliage,
while a glittering cascade falling from above formed a bright stream
which made its way into the bay.

Having brought up as agreed on, we fired a gun, and Uncle Jack pulled
off in the whale boat to pilot in the "Iris," which had hove to outside.
In a short time we had the satisfaction of seeing her rounding the
point, and she brought up near us.  As she by this time had almost
exhausted her stock of water, her boats and ours went in to obtain a
supply.  Hitherto no natives had been seen, but in case any should make
their appearance, we had a guard with loaded muskets ready to protect
the watering party.  It occurred to us that had there been any natives
in the neighbourhood the sound of our gun, which reverberated loudly
among the hills, might have kept them at a distance.  The operation of
watering occupied us for the greater part of the day, and it was agreed
that it was too late to set off in the boats until the following
morning.  In the meantime every preparation was made for the proposed
expedition.

The chart, which was very imperfect, helped us but little, but by
Captain Bingley's calculations the wreck was about twenty miles to the
southward, which might take us, should the weather continue favourable,
five or six hours to reach.  We were to go on shore at the most
convenient landing-place we could find to the northward of the spot, and
try and open up a communication with any of the natives we might see,
not knowing whether they might prove utter savages or semi-civilised,
like the Malay tribes inhabiting many of the islands in the
neighbourhood.  We were to carry goods of various descriptions, axes and
knives and coloured cloth, as well as beads and rings and
looking-glasses.

I scarcely slept a wink during my watch below, thinking of the
possibility of meeting with my father before the next day was over.  I
was to accompany Uncle Jack in the whale boat, in which as usual Ned and
Bell were to pull.  Our jolly-boat, under the charge of the boatswain,
with Blyth, was also to come, and Captain Bingley agreed to accompany us
in his long boat with a well-armed crew of six hands.  We should thus
muster pretty strong, and we might hope should the natives not prove
friendly to keep them in awe.  At daylight the following morning we
started on our expedition.  As there was a light breeze in our favour we
were able to make sail, and to run down the coast, keeping within half a
mile of the shore.  It was generally rock-bound, but here and there were
sandy bays, beyond which appeared a dense vegetation, a number of lofty
trees rising above the brushwood.  Sometimes we caught sight of bright
streams making their way to the ocean, showing that the land was well
watered.  In the distance rose hills, many of considerable elevation,
covered with trees almost to their summits.  Altogether the country had
a most attractive appearance.  We wished that it could become the abode
of civilised people, instead of the debased savages who were now said to
inhabit it.  After we had stood on for about twenty miles we began
eagerly to look out for the wreck, but dark rocks alone met our view,
some at a considerable distance from the land, others apparently joined
to it.

"I fear that Captain Bingley must, after all, have been mistaken, for I
see no signs of the wreck," I observed.

"We will stand on to the southward, however; he may easily have been
deceived as to distance," answered Uncle Jack.

We had run on another mile or more when, looking back, I saw an object
which seemed to me like the shattered hull of a ship.  It had been
previously hidden by the rocks along which we were coasting, and in a
few minutes it would again have been concealed by a high ledge.

"Can that be the wreck?"  I exclaimed, pointing it ought to Uncle Jack.

"No doubt about it," he answered, and he hailed Captain Bingley and
Crowfoot.

We lowered our sails, and held a consultation as to how we could best
approach the wreck, for such all hands agreed that it was.  Uncle Jack
accounted for the probability of its not having been seen by passing
prahus, by its being concealed by the ledge, although visible over it
from the mast-head of a ship.  As there appeared to be an opening
between the northern and southern ledges with clear water, Uncle Jack
proposed to pull in, while the other boats, should he discover a
passage, might follow.  This was agreed to, and we steered in for the
opening, Ned standing up in the bows, with a boat-hook in his hand, to
watch for any sunken rocks, and to shove off should we come suddenly
upon one.  We found the water deeper than we expected, which accounted
for the ship being driven in thus far without striking, while the ledges
outside afterwards protected her from the seas which, during
south-westerly gales, must have beaten on the coast.  We found, however,
that we could not get nearer.

"That's her; I have no doubt about it," exclaimed Ned, as we came full
in sight of the wreck.

"I believe he is right," said Uncle Jack, as he surveyed the remains of
the ship--"she is, I should judge, about the size of the `Amphion.'"

We first tried to pull up towards her on the western side, but it being
low water, so many rocks over which the boat could not pass intervening,
we attempted to get round the south-eastern end of the ledge on which
she lay, in the hope of finding deep water inside, between her and the
land.  In this we were not disappointed, and we found that there was a
channel, an eighth of a mile wide, of deep water running between her and
the beach.  On ascertaining this, we pulled back near enough to the
entrance, and made a signal for the other boats to come in.  The whale
boat again leading, we rounded the point and were not disappointed in
finding that we could get sufficiently near the wreck to enable us, by
scrambling over some rocks, to climb on board.  Her masts were gone, the
greater part of her upper works had been torn away, and I should not
myself have recognised her as the once trim ship my father had
commanded.  Ned, however, who visited the forecastle, declared
positively that she was the "Amphion," pointing out several marks on the
bunks and the heel of the bowsprit.

She had been completely gutted, not an article remaining in her, while
attempts had been made apparently to set her on fire.  This made us
conjecture that she had been visited by Malay pirates, or perhaps by the
Papuans from the neighbouring shore, though we saw no canoes by which
they might have crossed over.  The important point was thus settled, we
had found the wreck of the "Amphion."  We had next to ascertain if any
of the crew survived.

We could see, however, no natives nor habitations of any sort.  This
might be accounted for from the fact that, for some distance inside the
rocks the country was destitute of streams, and that the vegetation was
much less luxuriant than in other parts we had before passed.  We had
now to determine whether to go further south, or to pull back and land
as we had before intended, at the first place where native or other huts
could be seen.  As we had met with few habitations to the north, and had
the greater part of the day before us, it was finally settled to sail
further south.  From Ned's account he had, after being cast on shore,
been carried in that direction.  We got out by the way we had come in,
and then again making sail glided on for six or seven miles, when we
came off the mouth of a river.  Ned at once recognised the place, and
said that he remembered a village a short way from the entrance.
Accordingly, lowering our sails we pulled towards it.  As the water was
smooth, we had no difficulty in entering the river.  Mangrove trees
lined the shores on either side, but after pulling for about a mile, we
came to openings, when trees of various sorts appeared.  Shortly
afterwards we saw on the right bank a number of huts, perched, like
those of Borneo, on the tops of high poles, with ladders leading up to
them.  These, however, stood not on the shore, but on a level bank
actually in the water.  They were connected with each other by long
bridges.  The roofs were shaped like boats, bottom upwards.  The poles
were very irregular, some being twisted, others forked, while the
buildings themselves had a dilapidated appearance.  The walls were
composed, as far as we could judge, of large mats, which, from the way
they were secured, must have allowed a free circulation of air.  Under
the eaves of many of the houses we saw hung up several human skulls,
which we supposed were those of enemies killed in war, but were, we
afterwards found, the craniums of deceased relatives.  Access to the
shore from the village was obtained by a single wooden bridge.  Hitherto
we had seen no inhabitants, though we had no doubt some must have been
in their houses, for we observed three or four canoes made fast to the
posts below.  Not to alarm them, we landed at a little distance where
the depth of water enabled us to approach the bank, and taking ashore
several of the articles we had brought for bartering, placed some before
us, and held others up in our hands.  As we kept our weapons concealed,
our proceedings had the desired effect.  In a few minutes a man's face
with a huge mop-like head of frizzly hair appeared from behind one of
the mats, then another and another.  The first made his way along the
bridge leading to the bank, stopping every now and then as if he doubted
his own discretion in thus approaching us.  Our friendly signs
encouraged him, and he came on with less hesitation, followed by women
of all ages, who now came out of the huts.  The men were fine-looking
fellows, their heads frizzled out in the most extraordinary manner.
Most of them wore in their belts a knife and axe, besides smaller knives
and a skin pouch, with a bamboo case containing betel root, tobacco, and
lime.  Most of the women were very unattractive, their dress consisting
of strips of palm leaves worn tightly round the body, reaching to the
knees and very dirty.  The men were employed while watching us in
"forking out"--for I cannot call it combing--their heads of hair with
large wooden forks having four or five prongs.  They wore earrings and
necklaces made of white beads or kangaroo teeth.  The earrings consisted
of thick silver-wire hoops, some of the women having the ends of their
necklaces attached to them, and then looped up into a sort of "chignon"
behind.  The men wore a great number of ornaments composed of the teeth
of small animals, and they had finger rings as well as necklaces and
bracelets.  Some wore bands round their arms, ornamented with bunches of
varied-coloured feathers.  Others also had on anklets in the form of
hoops made of shell, or brass wire, below the knee.

Ned and Charley were now told to try if they could make themselves
understood, and to say that we had come as friends to trade with them
and to give them all sorts of articles in exchange for the productions
of their country, and then to inquire whether they had no white men
among them.  First Ned addressed them, then Charley.  It was pretty
evident, however, that the Papuans did not understand a word that was
said.  We therefore tried what signs would do, and succeeded much
better.  Having come up to us, they examined the articles we had placed
on the ground, when the chief man among them sent back several of the
others to the village, who returned laden with mats and baskets, some
empty, others full of a white flour, which on examination we found to be
sago.

Also baskets of yams, taro, bananas, and other roots, cocoa-nuts,
fruits, and oranges.  We saw, indeed, a large number of cocoa-nut trees
growing in the neighbourhood.  We now offered them such of the goods as
we had brought as we considered equivalent to the various lots.

Our trading had hitherto gone on well, and we hoped soon thoroughly to
gain the confidence of the natives, and be able to make the inquiries we
desired.

Kalong had come with us, and as he could not understand us, we told Ned
to get him to try what he could do.

We watched him eagerly.  After a time the Papuans appeared to understand
what he was saying, they replied.  He then turned and repeated what they
had said to Ned, who told us that the Papuans acknowledged that some
white men had been living with them for some time, but that they had
been carried off by another tribe, who had come far away from the
northward, at some distance from the coast.  Before this they had made
several attempts to escape, and were building a canoe for the purpose,
when the enemy came down and made them prisoners.

Kalong was then directed to inquire what sort of people they were.  I
listened eagerly for Ned's interpretation; at last he said--

"One was a chief, who notwithstanding worked as willingly, or more so,
than any of the rest, and seemed more anxious than they were to get
away."

This description made me hope that it was my father of whom the Papuan
spoke, but I was bitterly disappointed to hear that he had been carried
to a distance, as it might still be long before we could find him.
Uncle Jack felt as I did.

"We must, notwithstanding, keep up our spirits, Harry," he said;
"there's no proof that he has lost his life, and as these savages don't
move far from their locations, we may soon have a chance of
communicating with him.  We must try and get our friends here to help
us, and the promise of a large reward may incite their wits and courage.
Having succeeded thus far we will not give up the search, and if we can
get one of these frizzly-pated gentlemen to act as our guide we will set
off at once to look for him."

Uncle Jack explained his plans to Captain Bingley.

"I should like to make every effort in my power to recover my friend
Musgrave, but I dare not risk the loss of any of my people in making the
attempt," he answered.

"Then with your leave, Captain Bingley, I will go alone!" exclaimed
Uncle Jack.  "Who will volunteer?  Ned, I am sure that you will be ready
to go and look after your old captain."

"Aye, aye, sir," was the answer, "with all my heart."

"And I'll go too," said Bell, who had an eye to trade, and an idea that
he might establish an intercourse with the natives, as he had done in
Borneo.

Kalong, on being asked, expressed his readiness, provided that we all
went well-armed.

"I'll join you," said Blyth; "I am sure Captain Haiselden will not
object."

The next point to be arranged was, in the event of our finding my
father, where should we rejoin the brig.

Captain Bingley, after some discussion, promised, concluding that
Captain Haiselden would agree with him, to run down the coast, and to
stand off and on, so as to be ready to take us on board.  The appearance
of the two vessels would, he hoped, produce a favourable effect on the
natives.  Uncle Jack thanked him heartily, and agreed that the plan was
the best that could be devised.  I had hoped that Captain Bingley, on
hearing of the possibility of my father being in the neighbourhood,
would have marched with our whole force to rescue him, but he observed
that so large a party might make the natives suspect that we had come as
enemies, whereas a small force would show that we had no hostile
intentions, and induce them to behave in a friendly manner towards us.

Blyth now told Ned to inform the natives, through Kalong, that we should
be ready to purchase all the sago they could obtain, as well as a small
quantity of cocoa-nuts, yams, and other roots or fruits, promising to
call for them before we left the coast.  The natives, who seemed fully
to enter into the spirit of trade, were highly satisfied, and undertook
to do as they were advised.

Blyth said that if we could open up a trade with them it might lead to a
commercial intercourse with other tribes along the coast, and
ultimately, he hoped, to the civilisation of the country; observing, "If
we can show the natives that we wish to be friendly, and treat them with
justice, we shall render them service while we benefit ourselves."

As Captain Bingley was anxious to get back before nightfall, his and the
boatswain's boats started on their return, leaving Uncle Jack, Blyth,
and me with the three men to carry out our proposed undertaking.


CHAPTER SEVEN.

We felt pretty well satisfied of the friendly intentions of the natives,
but Uncle Jack considered that it would be prudent to be on our guard,
and directed us all to keep close together.  We feared, from the long
discussion held by the natives, that we should find a difficulty in
obtaining guides, none of them being willing to encounter the dangers
they expected to meet with.  We told Kalong to offer a handsome payment
to each man who would accompany us, and at length two fine young fellows
stepped forward and agreed to go.  They would not, however, consent to
start until the following morning at daybreak.  They offered one of
their huts that we might rest in it at night.  We selected one which
overhung the stream, so that we might secure our boat beneath and
retreat to it if necessary.  The inhabitants of the hut, who had no
heavy articles of furniture to remove, at once cleared out and gave us
possession.

As evening approached we saw them cooking in large earthen bowls.
Supper consisted of yams, vegetables, fish, and pork, some dishes being
seasoned with cocoa-nut, finely shred over them, and all very well
cooked.  This showed us that the natives were not the savages they have
so generally been represented to be, and the hospitable treatment we
received gave us confidence that they intended to act honestly.

Night passed away quietly, and the next morning, after a further supply
of cooked provisions had been brought us, our two guides said that they
were ready to start.  They told Kalong that they intended to row along
the coast some distance to the eastward, where there was a bay in which
we could land, and from thence proceed directly towards a village
perched on the side of a mountain, where the white men had been living
when last heard of.

We agreed at once to embark.  Pulling down the river, for there was no
wind for sailing, we steered as the natives directed.  The shore, as far
as we could see, was densely wooded, with high hills, also covered with
trees, rising in the far distance into lofty mountain ranges.  Here and
there were openings in the forest through which we could distinguish
villages, but the natives either did not see us, or supposed that the
whale boat was one of their own canoes.

At all events we were not followed.  We had rowed fifteen and twenty
miles when our pilots pointed to an opening on the shore, off which we
had arrived.  A short distance ahead we saw lying off the coast a small
island thickly covered with trees.  Eager to land, scarcely giving it a
second glance, we pulled in for the bay the natives pointed out.  As we
approached we observed near the beach a number of houses similar to
those of our friends, and fully expected to encounter fresh difficulties
with the natives, but on getting nearer we saw no one moving about.

We told Kalong to ask whether the people were likely to prove friendly
or not.  After consulting with our guides he answered that the huts were
deserted, the whole of the inhabitants having been carried off by a
fleet of prahus which lately visited the coast.

On landing we found that this account was correct.  Looking out for some
thick underwood we dragged up our whale boat on the beach, and so
concealed her that she could not be seen by strangers entering the bay.
We now prepared for our march.  We each of us carried, besides our arms
and ammunition, some biscuits, tea, and sugar, a small bale of goods
consisting of coloured cloth, axes, knives, beads, and glittering
ornaments likely to suit the savage taste.

Ned and Charley had, besides, our simple cooking utensils.  We felt sure
of obtaining game enough and wild fruits to enable us to fare
sumptuously.

Blyth and I were in high spirits, for I felt sure ere long that we
should find my father, and I was surprised that Uncle Jack did not
appear equally confident.  We found the woods as we proceeded full of
birds of magnificent plumage, parrots, cockatoos, lories, and others of
exquisite form and colour, which Blyth at once declared were birds of
paradise.  They, however, kept at such a distance that we were unable to
shoot any of them had we been so disposed.  Looking up at the top of a
lofty tree we saw a large number flying backwards and forwards from
branch to branch, so that the trees appeared filled with waving plumes.
We stopped for a moment to admire them.  Their wings were raised
directly over their backs.  Their heads were stretched out, while their
long hinder feathers, being elevated and expanded, formed two superb
fans.  The heads of the birds were yellow, their throats emerald green,
but we could scarcely distinguish the tints amid the rich golden glory
which waved above them.  Magnificent butterflies, also of the most
gorgeous colours, flew round us, and glittering beetles, of equally
beautiful tints, crept along the ground or up the stems of the trees.
In one or two open spots we startled several kangaroos of a small
species which went hopping away, looking back curiously at us every now
and then.  Suddenly also we came upon a cassowary, a wingless bird, the
body of which is about twice the size of a large turkey, but its long
legs raise it to the height of five or six feet from the ground.  It is
covered with long close black hair like feathers.  The skin of the neck
is bare, and it is of a bright blue and red.  Instead of wings it has on
its sides a bunch of horny black spines like porcupine quills.  There
are several species which differ in appearance from each other.

Mr Blyth told me there must be at least eighteen species of birds of
paradise, inhabiting different localities.  The commonest is yellow with
a long tail of the same colour.  We saw numerous pigeons also, and a
curious animal called the cuscus, something like an opossum, with a long
tail, small head, large eyes, and a dense covering of woolly fur.  We
observed traces also of other animals, but what they were we could not
make out--perhaps some large species of kangaroo or deer.  I mention
these creatures together to show the abundance of animal life in Papua.
But, as may be supposed, we had no time to attend to natural history,
our great object being, as soon as possible, to meet the tribe among
whom our countrymen were said to be living.  We travelled on until night
approached, when our guides signified that we must form a camp.  They
set to work by first clearing away the grass and examining the
neighbouring bushes to be satisfied that neither snakes nor savage
animals lurked within.  They then told Kalong to cut a quantity of
bamboos which grew on the banks of a stream a short distance off.  With
these they quickly formed a hut, to which they fixed a floor at some
distance from the ground to serve as a sleeping-place.  It was thatched
with large leaves, and was of sufficient size to hold all the party when
somewhat closely packed.  Uncle Jack, Blyth, and I kept watch by turns,
though our guides did not seem to consider this necessary.  We were not
disturbed with the various sounds which came out of the forest,
produced, however, I believe, rather by insects and birds than by wild
beasts.

Next morning, after cooking several birds which we had shot and taken
our breakfast, we recommenced our journey.  We had marched on five or
six miles up a gradual ascent, differing, however, very little from the
ground we had left, when our guides informed us that we were approaching
the village for which we were bound.  Soon after we saw in the distance
a large number of leaf-covered huts stretching over a considerable
extent of ground.  It was agreed that our guides should go forward, each
provided with some of the articles we had brought to present to the
chief, and to say that some white strangers had arrived who desired to
become friends and to trade with him.  We told Kalong that they must not
fail to hint that we were well-armed and able to defend ourselves, but
at the same time that we were peaceably disposed.  Observing a rock a
short distance off, partly covered with trees, from which we could
command a view of the country around us, we climbed to the top of it to
wait there in the shade until the return of the two Papuans.  We
employed part of the time in making a meal off the provisions which we
had cooked in the morning.  How eagerly I looked out for our guides,
expecting to see them perhaps accompanied by my father.  We waited and
waited, but still nowhere could we discover them.  But thou, my friend,
if thou wilt live among men, learn before all things to reverence the
shadow, and then the gold. Wishest thou to live only for thyself and
for thy better self--oh, then!--thou needest no counsel.

ERNST THEODOR AMADEUS HOFFMANN
* * * * *
THE GOLDEN POT[44] (1814)
TRANSLATED BY FREDERIC H. HEDGE
FIRST VIGIL 
The mishaps of the student Anselmus.

Conrector Paulmann's sanitary canaster and the gold-green snakes.

On Ascension-day, at three o'clock in the afternoon, a young man in Dresden
came running through the Black Gate, falling right into a basket of
apples and cakes, which an old and very ugly woman was there exposing
to sale. All that escaped being smashed to pieces was scattered away,
and the street-urchins joyfully divided the booty which this quick
gentleman had thrown in the way. At the murder-shriek which the crone
set up, her gossips, leaving their cake and brandy-tables, encircled
the young man, and with plebeian violence stormfully scolded him,
so that, for shame and vexation, he uttered no word, but merely
held out his small and by no means particularly well-filled purse,
which the crone eagerly clutched and stuck into her pocket.

The firm ring now opened; but as the young man started off, the crone
called after him: "Ay, run, run thy ways, thou Devil's bird!
To the crystal run--to the crystal!" The squealing, creaking voice of the
woman had something unearthly in it, so that the promenaders paused
in amazement, and the laugh, which at first had been universal,
instantly died away.

The student Anselmus, for the young man was no other, felt himself,
though he did not in the least understand these singular phrases,
nevertheless seized with a certain involuntary horror; and he
quickened his steps still more, to escape the curious looks of the
multitude, which were all turned toward him. As he worked his way
through the crowd of well-dressed people, he heard them murmuring on
all sides: "Poor young fellow!

Ha! what a cursed bedlam it is!" The mysterious words of the crone had,
oddly enough, given this ludicrous adventure a sort of tragic turn; and
the youth, before unobserved, was now looked after with a certain sympathy.
The ladies, for his fine shape and handsome face, which the glow of
inward anger was rendering still more expressive, forgave him this
awkward step, as well as the dress he wore, though it was utterly at
variance with all mode. His pike-gray frock was shaped as if the tailor
had known the modern form only by hearsay; and his well-kept black satin
lower habiliments gave the whole a certain pedagogic air, to which
the gait and gesture of the wearer did not at all correspond.

The student had almost reached the end of the alley which leads
out to the Linke Bath; but his breath could stand such a rate no
longer. From running, he took to walking; but scarcely did he yet dare
to lift an eye from the ground; for he still saw apples and cakes
dancing round him, and every kind look from this or that fair damsel
was to him but the reflex of the mocking laughter at the Black Gate.

In this mood, he had got to the entrance of the bath; one group of holiday
people after the other were moving in. Music of wind-instruments
resounded from the place, and the din of merry guests was growing
louder and louder. The poor student Anselmus was almost on the point
of weeping; for he too had expected, Ascension-day having always
been a family-festival with him, to participate in the felicities of
the Linkean paradise; nay, he had purposed even to go the length of a
half "portion" of coffee with rum, and a whole bottle of double beer,
and, that he might carouse at his ease, had put more money in his
purse than was properly permissible and feasible.

And now, by this fatal step into the apple-basket, all that he had about
him had been swept away. Of coffee, of double beer, of music, of looking
at the bright damsels--in a word, of all his fancied enjoyments,
there was now nothing more to be said.

He glided slowly past, and at last turned down the Elbe road, which at
that time happened to be quite solitary.

[Illustration: Permission Berlin Photo Co., New York. HENSEL ERNST THEODOR
AMADEUS HOFFMANN]
Beneath an elder-tree, which had grown out through the wall, he found a
kind green resting-place; here he sat down, and filled a pipe from the
_Sanitätsknaster_ or Health-tobacco, of which his friend the
Conrector Paulmann had lately made him a present.

Close before him rolled and chafed the gold-dyed waves of the fair
Elbe-stream; behind him rose lordly Dresden, stretching, bold and proud,
its light towers into the airy sky; which again, farther off, bent
itself down toward flowery meads and fresh springing woods; and in the
dim distance, a range of azure peaks gave notice of remote Bohemia.

But, heedless of this, the student Anselmus, looking gloomily before him,
blew forth his smoky clouds into the air.
I fully expected before long that there would be a downpour of rain,
but as we were on a weather shore I did not think it necessary to call
my companions.  I continued my walk, occasionally approaching the forest
and then returning to the boat.

I looked out anxiously for the approach of day, but even had the sky
been clear, the trees would have prevented me from seeing the first
streaks of dawn, and as it was the sun itself would probably not be
visible.

At last I knew by the light that the day had broke.  I had gone back to
the forest, and intended to arouse my companions at the end of the next
turn, when I fancied that I could distinguish the sound of human voices
amid the soughing of the wind in the branches overhead.  Stooping down
to the ground I listened attentively--I was sure I was not mistaken.

The voices might be those of the natives, who finding we had retreated
had pursued us.  Hurrying back to the boat as quickly as I could, I
roused up Uncle Jack, telling him what I had heard.

"Very likely you are right, Harry," he answered, "though we might drive
back the savages, we could not do so without bloodshed, and our safest
plan will be to get our boat off and hold a parley with them from her.
If they show hostility, we can keep them at bay until we get to a safe
distance."

Without a moment's delay we called up our companions.  We quickly turned
the boat on her keel and ran her down into the water.  We two held her,
while the rest carried our goods on board.

Just as we were jumping in we saw a number of savages, armed with spears
and bows, emerging from the forest, and they, catching sight of us,
rushed forward, others following, until a formidable band was collected
on the beach.

"Shove off, lads!" cried the first mate, seizing an oar, and the rest of
us imitating his example, aided by the wind, we speedily drove the boat
away from the shore.

The savages, seeing us about to escape them, bent their bows and let fly
a shower of arrows, which came whistling about our ears, some falling in
the boat and others on either side.

The first mate steered, Blyth sat by his side with a musket in his hand
ready to fire, while our Papuan guide crouched down in the stern-sheets.

"Shall I fire?" asked Blyth, "I can knock over one of those fellows; the
chief, I suspect, who seems to be leading them on."

"No, hold fast, I would not injure the poor wretches if it can be
avoided," answered the first mate.  "We shall be out of their reach in
another minute.  We can then settle how to treat with them."

A few strokes took us beyond the range of their missiles.  He was right,
for their bows were comparatively small, intended rather to shoot birds
than for war, while their javelins could not be thrown to any great
distance.

He now directed Ned to tell Kalong to address them, and to say that we
had come with friendly intentions to trade, and to recover some
countrymen who had been wrecked on their coast.

The chief, on hearing this, invited us on shore, observing that we could
talk more easily there, and that he would hear what we had to say.

The Malay and our native guide talked together.

"Kalong says we had better not trust them," observed Ned; "if we land
they may shoot us for the sake of getting our goods.  They don't know
how far our firearms can reach.  Better give them a volley to show
them."

This Uncle Jack was unwilling to do, though we might have shot down half
a dozen of them at least, had we fired as Ned proposed.

While this palaver was going forward I took a glance seaward, when what
was my astonishment to see the "Iris" and "Lily" standing along the
coast, under close reefed topsails, as if coming to look for us.  I
could judge by the way they heeled over that a pretty strong breeze was
blowing in the offing.

If we were to get on board there was no time to lose; indeed, it seemed
very doubtful whether we could reach either of the vessels.  They were
too far off to see us, and it was doubtful whether they could hear our
muskets.  Uncle Jack directed Blyth and me to fire at the same time, but
neither the ship nor the brig altered their course.  They had good
reason for not wishing to approach the land, as the wind, rapidly
increasing, was shifting to the north-west, and they might at any moment
find themselves on a lee shore.  They had also got so far from the
harbour they had left that it was evident that they could not manage to
get back.

"They'll not desert us, lads, depend upon that," said Uncle Jack, as we
saw them standing away from the coast; "we can neither overtake them nor
land while those fellows on shore show so unfriendly a disposition.  We
must try and get back to the village where we procured our guides,
though I don't know what sort of reception we shall meet with when their
friends hear that we have lost one of them.  It will be a long pull and
a heavy one, for we shall have a head sea as soon as we get clear of
this bay."

"Why not then make for yonder island to the eastward?"  I observed.
"These savages, who don't appear to have any canoes, cannot follow us
there, and we shall be able to remain in safety until our friends come
to take us off."

"We may have to follow your suggestion, Harry, but we must first try to
get back to the river to land our guide according to our promise.  He
has proved faithful, and we will supply him with goods with which he may
be able to ransom his companion."

This was said as we were pulling out of the bay, but no sooner did we
get beyond the point than we met so heavy a sea that it was impossible
to pull the whale boat against it, and we were in danger of being
swamped.  Our only alternative was, as I proposed, to run for the
island.  Even now we had to pull hard to avoid the following seas which
threatened to poop us.  We saw the savages on shore dancing, shouting,
and gesticulating when they discovered that we had escaped them.  On
finding, however, that we were steering for the island they rushed along
the beach in the same direction, which made us fear that they might
possess the means of crossing over to it, and that after all we should
have to fight for our lives.  We had not much apprehension, however, as
to the result.  Uncle Jack intended to pull round to the lee side of the
island, and then, should they persist in attacking us, we could shoot
them down from the boat while we kept out of range of their arrows.

As we pulled along we watched the two vessels which were getting further
and further from the coast, although the ship had only her fore and
mizen topsail set, and the brig was under equally snug canvas.

Aided by the wind the boat went faster than the savages could run, and
they were out of sight when we reached the passage between the island
and the main land.  We could see no canoes on the shore, and this made
us hope that we might at all events avoid an attack until the gale was
over, and we could resume our search for my father.

We did not doubt for a moment that the "Lily" would come to look for us,
and by hoisting a signal on the outer end of the island we hoped to
attract her attention.  Passing through the channel, which was about a
mile wide, we rounded the eastern point of the island where the water
was perfectly smooth, when discovering a small bay with a sandy beach we
at once pulled in.  As we saw no huts or plantations we calculated that
the island was uninhabited.  We therefore landed without hesitation, and
hauled up our boat.  From a rocky elevation on the northern side of the
bay we could command a view of the main land along the whole length of
the strait.

Uncle Jack sent Blyth and me to watch should any natives appear, but
sharp as were our eyes we could discover neither canoes nor human beings
moving about.

The savages therefore supposing we had escaped had, we concluded,
returned to their village.  As there was some probability that we should
have to remain several days on the island, Uncle Jack proposed that we
should build a hut, which would be a pleasanter sleeping-place than
under the boat.  We at once therefore set to work.

The Papuan showed himself an adept at the use of the axe, and
understanding clearly what we wanted was of great assistance.  A bamboo
thicket and some large palm leaves afforded us materials, so that in a
short time we had a well built hut erected capable of containing all the
party, the upper floor affording us a sleeping-place, while the lower
would shelter us during the day should it come on to rain.  We naturally
felt much anxiety about the vessels, though we trusted that they would
avoid any of the dangers which lay to the westward.

Night passed without any adventure.  The gale raged with unabated fury,
though we felt it but little in our sheltered cove.  We had brought a
good store of provisions and a breaker of water in the boat, but that,
from the frequent applications to it, was almost exhausted.  It was
necessary to search for a fresh supply.  Uncle Jack was unwilling to
leave the beach in case the natives might find the means of crossing.
Blyth and I therefore undertook to go in search of water.  We hoped,
although we might not discover a stream--which from the size of the
island was unlikely--we might find a spring, or ground by digging into
which fresh water might be reached.  As soon, therefore, as we had
breakfasted we set off.  As we had pulled along it the previous day we
calculated that the island was between three and four miles long and
about two miles broad.

Besides our guns we each carried a long bamboo stick, one end pointed
and the other formed like a gouge to serve as a spade, with which we
might dig for water, should we fail to find a stream.

So thick was the jungle immediately at the back of the cove that we had
to proceed along the shore some distance before we could make our way
inland.  In several places we found it lined with the pandanus or screw
palm, which looks as if it had branches at both ends, the lower being
the roots which had lifted the trunk into the air.  In other places
there were cocoa-nut trees with nuts hanging from them, so we knew that
even were we to be kept there many weeks we should have an ample supply
of vegetable diet.

"We shall find other food too," said Blyth, pointing to some trees which
grew in a hollow at the foot of a hill.  "Those are sago trees; if hard
pressed we might manufacture sufficient sago from them to last us for
months, or even years.  They require moisture, and I have little doubt
that by digging we shall find water not far from their roots.  But we
will search further, perhaps we may discover a spring which will give us
a more ample supply, so that there is no fear of our starving.  What a
number of birds there are!  Many of them, too are birds of paradise.  I
cannot tell you their names, but they seem to be the same as are found
in the Aru islands away to the southward.  I fancied that I dreamed; I
bit my tongue to awake myself, but I was really awake. I closed my
eyes in order to collect my thoughts. I heard before me singular accents
pronounced through the nose. I looked up.

Two Chinese, unmistakable from their Asiatic physiognomy, if indeed I would
have given no credit to their costume, addressed me in their speech with
the accustomed salutations of their country. I arose and stepped two paces
backward; I saw them no more. The landscape was totally changed--trees
and forests instead of rice-fields. I contemplated these trees and
the plants which bloomed around me, which I recognized as the growth of
southeastern Asia. I wished to approach one of these trees--one step,
and again all was changed. I marched now like a recruit who is drilled,
and strode slowly and with measured steps.

Wonderfully diversified lands, rivers, meadows, mountain chains,
steppes, deserts of sand, unrolled themselves before my astonished
eyes. There was no doubt of it--I had seven-league boots on my feet.

CHAPTER X

I fell in speechless adoration on my knees and shed tears of
thankfulness, for suddenly my future stood clear before my soul. For
early offense thrust out from the society of men, I was cast,
for compensation, upon Nature, which I ever loved; the earth was given
me as a rich garden, study for the object and strength of my life, and
science for its goal. It was no resolution which I adopted. I only
have since, with severe, unremitted diligence, striven faithfully to
represent what then stood clear and perfect before my eye, and my
satisfaction has depended on the agreement of the representation with
the original.

I roused myself in order, without delay, and with a hasty survey,
to take possession of the field where I should hereafter reap.

I stood on the heights of Tibet, and the sun, which had risen upon me
only a few hours before, now already stooped to the evening sky. I
wandered over Asia from east to west, overtaking him in his course,
and entered Africa. I gazed about me with eager curiosity, as I
repeatedly traversed it in all directions.

As I surveyed the ancient pyramids and temples in passing through Egypt,
I descried in the desert not far from hundred-gated Thebes, the
caves where the Christian anchorites once dwelt.

It was suddenly firm and clear in me--here is thy home!
I selected one of the most concealed which was at the same time
spacious, convenient, and inaccessible to the jackals, for my future
abode, and again went forward.

I passed, at the pillars of Hercules, over to Europe, and when I
reviewed the southern and northern provinces, I crossed from northern
Asia over the polar glaciers to Greenland and America, traversed
both parts of that continent, and the winter which already reigned in the
south drove me speedily back northward from Cape Horn.

I tarried awhile till it was day in eastern Asia, and, after some
repose, continued my wandering.

I traced through both Americas the mountain chain which constitutes
the highest known acclivities on our globe.

I stalked slowly and cautiously from summit to summit, now over
flaming volcanoes, now snow-crowned peaks, often breathing with
difficulty, when, reaching Mount Saint Elias, I sprang across
Behring's Straits to Asia.

I followed the western shores in their manifold windings, and examined
with especial care to ascertain which of the islands were accessible to
me. From the peninsula of Malacca my boots carried me to Sumatra, Java,
Bali and Lamboc. I attempted often with danger, and always in vain, a
northwest passage over the lesser islet and rocks with which this sea
is studded, to Borneo and the other islands of this Archipelago.

I was compelled to abandon the hope. At length I seated myself on the
extreme portion of Lamboc, and gazing toward the south and east,
wept, as at the fast closed bars of my prison, that I had so soon
discovered my limits.

New Holland so extraordinary and so essentially necessary to the
comprehension of the earth and its sun-woven garment, the vegetable and
the animal world, with the South Sea and its Zoophyte islands, was
interdicted to me, and thus, at the very outset, all that I
should gather and build up was destined to remain a mere fragment!
We thought it safer than a hut, where the natives, if
they had come to the island, would be more likely to find us."

I begged the seaman to hurry on.  "What!  Are you the captain's son?" he
asked, as I ran by his side.  "Often and often he has talked about you.
If anything will set him on his legs the sight of you will."

We soon reached the beach, when scrambling for some distance among the
rocks the seaman pointed to the entrance of a cave at the side of a hill
which sloped up from the water.

As agreed on the seaman went first, followed by Blyth.  I stood outside
eagerly waiting to be summoned.  It seemed so long that I was afraid my
father had been overcome with the news.

At length Blyth appeared, and beckoned me in, and the next instant I was
kneeling by my father's side, as he lay stretched on a bed of leaves and
matting, which Dick Meade, his faithful follower, had arranged for him.

"What!  Are you Harry, really my son Harry?" he exclaimed, throwing his
arms around my neck; "I was sure that you and my good brother Jack
Radburn would come to look for me if you thought I was alive, and not
until yesterday, when God in his mercy had sent you to this island, did
I lose hope.  Ungrateful I was, after having been preserved from so many
dangers; but your appearance has brought me back to life."

"What the captain wants is some good food," I heard Dick observe to
Blyth; "if you'll let me cook one of those pigeons it will do him all
the good in the world."

As Blyth carried a flint and steel they soon had a fire lighted in a
sheltered spot, just outside the cave.  While I sat by my father I was
thankful to see that he appeared stronger as we conversed.

Blyth soon again came in and volunteered to carry the joyful
intelligence to Uncle Jack.  During his absence the pigeon was cooked
and eaten.  Dick brought in a shell full of water from a spring, which
he said bubbled out of the hill side close at hand.

Soon I heard Uncle Jack's voice.  I need not describe the meeting
between him and my father.  He had left Blyth with directions to bring
the boat round should the sea have gone down sufficiently to enable her
without risk to reach a little cove which we found not far from the
cave, where she might be hauled up if necessary.  Uncle Jack, with his
usual forethought, had brought tea and sugar and biscuit, luxuries to
which my poor father had long been a stranger.  They appeared to benefit
him much.  In a few hours he was able to sit up and converse freely with
us.  Before nightfall we had the satisfaction of seeing the boat, and
Dick ran down to pilot her into the cove.  Some of the party spent the
night in the cave, which was of considerable size, and others under the
boat.

The first thing all hands did in the morning was to cut down the tallest
trees we could find to form a flag-staff, which we placed on the highest
part of the hill overlooking the ocean.  We then fastened together the
two flags we had in the boat with a number of our handkerchiefs, which,
combined, formed a flag of a size which could be seen at a considerable
distance; eagerly we watched day after day for the appearance of sail.

I had never seen Uncle Jack so anxious, he could not help reflecting
that during the gale some accident might have happened to the "Iris,"
and that his dear Grace might be among the sufferers.

"Cheer up, brother Jack," said my father, when he saw him thus cast
down; "I have learned more than ever to put confidence in God's loving
mercy during my exile.  Had I not been able to trust Him, I should have
sank long ago.  I have known Haiselden and Bingley all their lives, and
they are not the men to desert their friends."

Still another and another day passed.  At length, one morning, I was
awakened by a shout from Dick Meade, and running out of the cave, I saw
the rising sun shining on the white canvas of a brig in the offing.
That she was the "Lily" I had no doubt, but where was the "Iris"?  What
would be Uncle Jack's feelings at not seeing her?

Dick was hoisting up the flag which he had just bent on.  The breeze was
from the south-east, which would enable the brig to approach the island
without risk.  She was standing on farther to the northward, and I began
to fear that she was not the "Lily" after all.  I was expressing my
doubts to Dick, when I found Uncle Jack standing by me with a telescope
to his eye.

"Yes she's the `Lily,' no doubt about it; she'll see our signal before
long, as she will be looking out for us."

In another minute the whole of our party were on foot.  I ran in to tell
my father, who insisted on coming out to have a look at the object for
which his eyes had so often ached in vain.

In the meantime our men had lighted a fire, believing that a long pull
would be before them.  Fortunate it was that they did so.  My father was
not in a fit state to go off without breakfast.  The meal was scarcely
over when the brig tacked, and the "Lily's" flag was run up at the
mast-head.

Not a moment was lost in launching the boat.  My father was assisted
down to the beach.  We waited a few minutes, when the "Lily" hove to.
Our last act was to lower the signal flag, and we then, getting on
board, with hearty strokes pulled away for the brig.

"We have found him, we have found him!"  I could not help calling out as
we approached her side.

My father was helped on board, and warmly welcomed by our kind-hearted
captain.  Uncle Jack's first inquiry was for the "Iris."

"She's all safe at the Aru islands, where I promised to rejoin her as
soon as I had recovered you," answered Captain Haiselden; "and as she
has received some damage in the gale, she is likely to be detained there
several days."

The only person who looked unhappy was our Papuan guide; but he was
reassured when the captain promised to land him at his own village,
towards which we stood, as soon as the whale boat was dropped astern.

In a couple of hours we were off the mouth of the river, when we once
more pulled off, with the same party which had before landed in the
whale boat.

As we approached, a shout of joy arose from our companions.  The cause
was soon explained.  One of the first persons we saw standing on the
platform in front of the hut was the lost guide who had, we afterwards
found, made his escape, while his captors were pursuing us.

The natives were delighted with the things we brought them, and we could
have laden our boat up to the gunwale with the articles they offered in
return.

Wishing our friends good-bye, and promising that we would as soon as
possible pay them another visit, we pulled back to the brig.

In three days we reached the Aru islands, seldom visited by English
vessels, and brought up before the chief town Dobbo, which is, however,
only a collection of huts such as those described in Papua and Borneo,
though of a more substantial character.  The population of the islands
are mostly Papuans, though people from various other parts of the
Eastern seas have settled there.  The islands are generally level, and
thickly wooded, the forests containing amongst other birds two or three
of the most beautiful species of birds of paradise.

The "Iris" was almost ready to sail, so that we remained there but a
couple of days, when, threading our way among the coral reefs, we once
more got into the open sea.

I should have been happy to give a further description of our voyage and
our visit to Timor, where we anchored to obtain fresh provisions.  We
then shaped our course along the south coast of Java, and then, crossing
the Indian Ocean, rounded the Cape of Good Hope; after which we had a
remarkably fine passage home, and, strange to say, did not once lose
sight of the "Iris."

hey! what chattering and jingling is that up there? Hey! hey!
who catches me the ray behind the hills? Sunned enough, sung enough.
Hey! hey! through bush and grass, through grass and stream! Hey! hey!
Come dow-w-n, dow-w-w-n!"
So faded the voice away, as in murmurs of a distant thunder; but the
crystal bells broke off in sharp discords. All became mute; and the
student Anselmus observed how the three snakes, glittering and sparkling,
glided through the grass toward the river; rustling and hustling,
they rushed into the Elbe; and over the waves where they vanished,
there crackled up a green flame, which, gleaming forward obliquely,
vanished in the direction of the city.

SECOND VIGIL
How the student Anselmus was looked upon as drunk and mad.I have not entered into the trading particulars of the voyages of the
two vessels, but both were considered highly satisfactory.  It was the
first of several I made on board the brig to the same region, the mate
of the "Lily" being now her captain.

In the next voyage my Aunt Grace, now Uncle Jack's wife, accompanied
him.  He has since retired from the sea.  I served with him as his
second, and then his first mate for some years, until I got the command
of a ship.  I must acknowledge that I greatly owe my success to having
followed the good example set me by my excellent uncle once The Mate of
the "Lily."

THE END.