Produced by David Widger


ESSAYS OF MICHEL DE MONTAIGNE

Translated by Charles Cotton

Edited by William Carew Hazilitt

1877


CONTENTS OF VOLUME 3.

XIII.     The ceremony of the interview of princes.
XIV.      That men are justly punished for being obstinate in the defence
          of a fort that is not in reason to be defended
XV.       Of the punishment of cowardice.
XVI.      A proceeding of some ambassadors.
XVII.     Of fear.
XVIII.    That men are not to judge of our happiness till after death.
XIX.      That to study philosophy is to learn to die.
XX.       Of the force of imagination.
XXI.      That the profit of one man is the damage of another.


CHAPTER XIII

THE CEREMONY OF THE INTERVIEW OF PRINCES

There is no subject so frivolous that does not merit a place in this
rhapsody.  According to our common rule of civility, it would be a
notable affront to an equal, and much more to a superior, to fail being
at home when he has given you notice he will come to visit you.  Nay,
Queen Margaret of Navarre--[Marguerite de Valois, authoress of the
'Heptameron']--further adds, that it would be a rudeness in a gentleman
to go out, as we so often do, to meet any that is coming to see him, let
him be of what high condition soever; and that it is more respectful and
more civil to stay at home to receive him, if only upon the account of
missing him by the way, and that it is enough to receive him at the door,
and to wait upon him.  For my part, who as much as I can endeavour to
reduce the ceremonies of my house, I very often forget both the one and
the other of these vain offices.  If, peradventure, some one may take
offence at this, I can't help it; it is much better to offend him once
than myself every day, for it would be a perpetual slavery.  To what end
do we avoid the servile attendance of courts, if we bring the same
trouble home to our own private houses?  It is also a common rule in all
assemblies, that those of less quality are to be first upon the place, by
reason that it is more due to the better sort to make others wait and
expect them.

Nevertheless, at the interview betwixt Pope Clement and King Francis at
Marseilles,--[in 1533.]--the King, after he had taken order for the
necessary preparations for his reception and entertainment, withdrew out
of the town, and gave the Pope two or three days' respite for his entry,
and to repose and refresh himself, before he came to him.  And in like
manner, at the assignation of the Pope and the Emperor,--[Charles V.  in
1532.] at Bologna, the Emperor gave the Pope opportunity to come thither
first, and came himself after; for which the reason given was this, that
at all the interviews of such princes, the greater ought to be first at
the appointed place, especially before the other in whose territories the
interview is appointed to be, intimating thereby a kind of deference to
the other, it appearing proper for the less to seek out and to apply
themselves to the greater, and not the greater to them.

Not every country only, but every city and every society has its
particular forms of civility.  There was care enough to this taken in my
education, and I have lived in good company enough to know the
formalities of our own nation, and am able to give lessons in it.  I love
to follow them, but not to be so servilely tied to their observation that
my whole life should be enslaved to ceremonies, of which there are some
so troublesome that, provided a man omits them out of discretion, and not
for want of breeding, it will be every whit as handsome.  I have seen
some people rude, by being overcivil and troublesome in their courtesy.

Still, these excesses excepted, the knowledge of courtesy and good
manners is a very necessary study.  It is, like grace and beauty, that
which begets liking and an inclination to love one another at the first
sight, and in the very beginning of acquaintance; and, consequently, that
which first opens the door and intromits us to instruct ourselves by the
example of others, and to give examples ourselves, if we have any worth
taking notice of and communicating.


CHAPTER XIV

THAT MEN ARE JUSTLY PUNISHED FOR BEING OBSTINATE IN THE DEFENCE
OF A FORT THAT IS NOT IN REASON TO BE DEFENDED

Valour has its bounds as well as other virtues, which, once transgressed,
the next step is into the territories of vice; so that by having too
large a proportion of this heroic virtue, unless a man be very perfect in
its limits, which upon the confines are very hard to discern, he may very
easily unawares run into temerity, obstinacy, and folly.  From this
consideration it is that we have derived the custom, in times of war, to
punish, even with death, those who are obstinate to defend a place that
by the rules of war is not tenable; otherwise men would be so confident
upon the hope of impunity, that not a henroost but would resist and seek
to stop an army.

The Constable Monsieur de Montmorenci, having at the siege of Pavia been
ordered to pass the Ticino, and to take up his quarters in the Faubourg
St. Antonio, being hindered by a tower at the end of the bridge, which
was so obstinate as to endure a battery, hanged every man he found within
it for their labour.  And again, accompanying the Dauphin in his
expedition beyond the Alps, and taking the Castle of Villano by assault,
and all within it being put to the sword by the fury of the soldiers, the
governor and his ensign only excepted, he caused them both to be trussed
up for the same reason; as also did the Captain Martin du Bellay, then
governor of Turin, with the governor of San Buono, in the same country,
all his people having been cut to pieces at the taking of the place.

But forasmuch as the strength or weakness of a fortress is always
measured by the estimate and counterpoise of the forces that attack it
--for a man might reasonably enough despise two culverins, that would be
a madman to abide a battery of thirty pieces of cannon--where also the
greatness of the prince who is master of the field, his reputation, and
the respect that is due unto him, are also put into the balance, there is
danger that the balance be pressed too much in that direction.  And it
may happen that a man is possessed with so great an opinion of himself
and his power, that thinking it unreasonable any place should dare to
shut its gates against him, he puts all to the sword where he meets with
any opposition, whilst his fortune continues; as is plain in the fierce
and arrogant forms of summoning towns and denouncing war, savouring so
much of barbarian pride and insolence, in use amongst the Oriental
princes, and which their successors to this day do yet retain and
practise.  And in that part of the world where the Portuguese subdued the
Indians, they found some states where it was a universal and inviolable
law amongst them that every enemy overcome by the king in person, or by
his lieutenant, was out of composition.

A rod of electric light carbon warmed and fixed horizontally across a
bell-jar full of dense smoke is very suitable for this experiment,
and by means of a lens the dust-free regions may be thus projected
on to a screen.

Diminished pressure makes the coat thicker.

Increased pressure makes it thinner.

In hydrogen it is thicker, and in carbonic acid thinner, than in air. We
have also succeeded in observing it in liquids--for instance, in water
holding fine rouge in suspension, the solid body being a metal steam
tube. Quantitative determinations are now in progress.

[Illustration: Fig. 1 and Fig. 2]
Fig. 1 shows the appearance when looking along a copper or carbon
rod laterally illuminated; the paths of the dust particles are roughly
indicated. Fig. 2 shows the coat on a semi-cylinder of sheet copper with
the concave side turned toward the light.

It is difficult to give the full explanation of the dust free spaces in
a few words, but we may say roughly that there is a molecular bombardment
from all warm surfaces by means of which small suspended bodies get
driven outward and kept away from the surface. It is a sort of differential
bombardment of the gas molecules on the two faces of a dust particle
somewhat analogous to the action on Mr.

Crookes' radiometer vanes. Near cold surfaces the bombardment is very
feeble, and if they are cold enough it appears to act toward the body,
driving the dust inward--at any rate, there is no outward bombardment
sufficient to keep the dust away, and bodies colder than the atmosphere
surrounding them soon get dusty. Thus if I hold this piece of glass in
a magnesium flame, or in a turpentine or camphor flame, it quickly gets
covered with smoke--white in the one case, black in the other.

          I take two conical flasks with their surfaces blackened with camphor
black, and filling one with ice, the other with boiling water, I
cork them and put a bell jar over them, under which I burn some
magnesium wire; in a quarter of an hour or so we find that the cold
one is white and hoary, the hot one has only a few larger specks
of dust on it, these being of such size that the bombardment was
unable to sustain their weight, and they have settled by gravitation.

     We thus see that when the air in a room is warmer than the solids
     in it--as will be the case when stoves, gas-burners, etc., are
used--things will get very dusty; whereas when walls and objects
are warmer than the air--as will be the case in sunshine, or when
open fireplaces are used, things will tend to keep themselves more
free from dust.

Mr.
Aitken points out that soot in a chimney is an illustration of this kind
of deposition of dust; and as another illustration it strikes me as just
possible that the dirtiness of snow during a thaw may be partly due to
the bombardment on to the cold surface of dust out of the warmer air
above. Mr. Aitken has indeed suggested a sort of practical dust or
smoke filter on this principle, passing air between two surfaces--one
hot and one cold--so as to vigorously bombard the particles on to the
cold surface and leave the air free.

But we have found another and apparently much more effectual mode of
clearing air than this.

We do it by discharging electricity into it.
It is easily possible to electrify air by means of a point or flame, and
an electrified body has this curious property, that the dust near it at
once aggregates together into larger particles. It is not difficult to
understand why this happens; each of the particles becomes polarized
by induction, and they then cling together end to end, just like iron
filings near a magnet. A feeble charge is often sufficient to start this
coagulating action. And when the particles have grown into big ones, they
easily and quickly fall. A stronger charge forcibly drives them on to all
electrified surfaces, where they cling. A fine water fog in a bell jar,
electrified, turns first into a coarse fog or Scotch mist, and then into
rain. Smoke also has its particles coagulated, and a space can thus be
cleared of it.

I will illustrate this action by making some artificial fogs in a
bell-jar furnished with a metal point.

First burn some magnesium wire, electrify it by a few turns of this
small Voss machine, and the smoke has become snow; the particles
are elongated, and by pointing to the charged rod indicate the lines
of electrostatic force very beautifully; electrify further, and the
air is perfectly clear.

Next burn turpentine, and electrify gently; the dense black smoke
coagulates into black masses over an inch long; electrify further, and
the glass is covered with soot, but the air is clear. Turpentine smoke
acts very well, and can be tried on a larger scale; a room filled
with turpentine smoke, so dense that a gas-light is invisible inside
it, begins to clear in a minute or two after the machine begins to
turn, and in a quarter of an hour one can go in and find the walls
thickly covered with stringy blacks, notably on the gas-pipes and
everything most easily charged by induction.

               Next fill a bell-jar full of steam, and
               electrify, paying attention to insulation
               of the supply point in this case.

     In a few seconds the air looks clear, and turning on a beam of
     light we see the globules of water dancing about, no longer fine and
     impalpable, but separately visible and rapidly falling.

Finally, make a London fog by burning turpentine and sulphur, adding
a little sulphuric acid, either directly as vapor or indirectly by a trace
of nitric oxide, and then blowing in steam. Electrify, and it soon
becomes clear, although it lakes a little longer than before; and on
removing the bell-jar we find that even the smell of SO2 has
disappeared, and only a little vapor of turpentine remains. Similarly we
can make a Widnes fog by sulphureted hydrogen, chlorine, sulphuric acid,
and a little steam. Probably the steam assists the clearing when
gases have to be dealt with. It may be possible to clear the air of
tunnels by simply discharging electricity into the air--the electricity
being supplied by Holtz machines, driven say by small turbines--a very
handy form of power, difficult to get out of order.
Or possibly some hydro-electric arrangement might be devised for the
locomotive steam to do the work. I even hope to make some impression on a
London fog, discharging from lightning conductors or captive balloons
carrying flames, but it is premature to say anything about this matter
yet. I have, however, cleared a room of smoke very quickly with a small
hand machine.

It will naturally strike you how closely allied these phenomena must
be to the fact of popular science that "thunder clears the air." Ozone
is undoubtedly generated by the flashes, and may have a beneficial
effect, but the dust-coagulating and dust-expelling power of the
electricity has a much more rapid effect, though it may not act
till the cloud is discharged.

          Consider a cloud electrified slightly; the mists and clouds in its
vicinity begin to coagulate, and go on till large drops are formed,
which may be held up by electrical action, the drops dancing from
one cloud to another and thus forming the very dense thunder cloud.

     The coagulation of charged drops increases the potential, as
     Prof.

Tait points out, until at length--flash--the cloud is discharged, and
the large drops fall in a violent shower. Moreover, the rapid excursion
to and fro of the drops may easily have caused them to evaporate so fast
as to freeze, and hence we may get hail.

While the cloud was electrified, it acted inductively on the earth underneath,
drawing up an opposite charge from all points, and thus electrifying
the atmosphere. When the discharge occurs this atmospheric electrification
engages with the earth, clearing the air between, and driving the dust and
germs on to all exposed surfaces. In some such way also it may be that
"thunder turns milk sour," and exerts other putrefactive influences on
the bodies which receive the germs and dust from the air.

But we are now no longer on safe and thoroughly explored territory.
I have allowed myself to found upon a basis of experimental fact, a
superstructure of practical application to the explanation of the
phenomena of nature and to the uses of man. The basis seems to me
strong enough to bear most of the superstructure, but before being sure
it will be necessary actually to put the methods into operation
and to experiment on a very large scale.

I hope to do this when I can get to a suitable place of operation.
Liverpool fogs are poor affairs, and not worth clearing off. Manchester
fogs are much better and more frequent, but there is nothing to beat
the real article as found in London, and in London if possible I intend
to rig up some large machines and to see what happens. The underground
railway also offers its suffocating murkiness as a most tempting field
for experiment, and I wish I were able already to tell you the actual
result instead of being only in a position to indicate possibilities.
Whether anything comes of it practically or not, it is an instructive
example of how the smallest and most unpromising beginnings may, if
only followed up long enough, lead to suggestions for large practical
application. When we began the investigation into the dust-free spaces
found above warm bodies, we were not only without expectation, but
without hope or idea of any sort, that anything was likely to come of
it; the phenomenon itself possessed its own interest and charm.

And so it must ever be. The devotee of pure science never has practical
developments as his primary aim; often he not only does not know, but does
not in the least care whether his researches will ever lead to any
beneficial result. In some minds this passive ignoring of the practical
goes so far as to become active repulsion; so that some singularly biased
minds will not engage in anything which seems likely to lead to
practical use. I regard this as an error, and as the sign of a warped
judgment, for after all man is to us the most important part of
nature; but the system works well nevertheless, and the division of labor
accomplishes its object. One man investigates nature impelled simply
by his own genius, and because he feels he cannot help it; it never occurs
to him to give a reason for or to justify his pursuits. Another subsequently
utilizes his results, and applies them to the benefit of the race.
Meanwhile, however, it may happen that the yet unapplied and unfruitful
results evoke a sneer, and the question:
"Cui bono?"

the only answer to which question seems to be: "No one is wise enough
to tell beforehand what gigantic developments may not spring from the
most insignificant fact."
* * * * *

TELEPHONY AND TELEGRAPHY ON THE SAME WIRES SIMULTANEOUSLY.

For the last eighteen months a system has been in active operation in
Belgium whereby the ordinary telegraph wires are used to convey
telephonic communications at the same time that they are being employed
in their ordinary work of transmitting telegraphic messages.
This system, the invention of M. Van Rysselberghe, whose previous
devices for diminishing the evil effects of induction in the telephone
service will be remembered, has lately been described in the _Journal
Telegraphique_ of Berne, by M.J. Banneux of the Belgian Telegraph Department.
Our information is derived from this article and from others by M.
Hospitalier.

The method previously adopted by Van Rysselberghe, to prevent induction
from taking place between the telegraph wires and those running
parallel to them used for telephone work, was briefly as follows:
The system of sending the dots and dashes of the code--usually done
by depressing and raising a key which suddenly turns on the current and
then suddenly turns it off--was modified so that the current should
rise gradually and fall gradually in its strength by the introduction of
suitable resistances. These were introduced into the circuit at the
moment of closing or opening by a simple automatic arrangement worked
exactly as before by a key. The result, of the gradual opening and
gradual closing of the circuit was that the current attained its
full strength gradually instead of suddenly, and died away also
gradually. And as induction from one wire to another depends not on
the strength of the current, but on the rate at which the strength changes,
this very simple modification had the effect of suppressing induction.
Later Van Rysselberghe changed these arrangements for the still simpler
device of introducing permanently into the circuit either condensers
or else electro-magnets having a high coefficient of self-induction.

These, as is well known to all telegraphic engineers, retard the
rise or fall of an electric current; they fulfill the conditions
required for the working of Van Rysselberghe's method better than
any other device.

Having got thus far in his devices for destroying induction from
one line to another, Van Rysselberghe saw that, as an immediate
consequence, it might be concluded that, if the telegraph currents
were thus modified and graduated so that they produced no induction
in a neighboring telephone line, they would produce no sound in the
telephone if that instrument were itself joined up in the telegraph
line.

          And such was found to be case.

     Why this is so will be more readily comprehended if it be
     remembered that a telephone is sensitive to the changes in the
strength of the current if those changes occur with a frequency of
some hundreds or in some cases thousands of times _per second_.

On the other hand, currents vibrating with such rapidity as this are
utterly incompetent to affect the moving parts of telegraphic instruments,
which cannot at the most be worked so as to give more than 200 to 800
separate signals _per minute_.

[Illustration: Fig. 1]
[Illustration: Fig. 2]
The simplest arrangement for carrying out this method is shown
in Fig.
1, which illustrates the arrangements at one end of a line. M is the Morse
key for sending messages, and is shown as in its position of rest for
receiving. The currents arriving from the line pass first through a
"graduating" electromagnet, E2, of about 500 ohms resistance, then
through the key, thence through the electromagnet, R, of the receiving
Morse instrument, and so to the earth. A condenser, C, of 2 microfarads
capacity is also introduced between the key and earth. There is a second
"graduating" electromagnet, E1, of 500 ohms resistance introduced between
the sending battery, B, and the key.
When the key, M, is depressed in order to send a signal, the current
from the battery must charge the condenser, C, and must magnetize
the cores of the two electromagnets, E1 and E2, and is thereby retarded
in rising to its full strength. Consequently no sound is heard in a
telephone, T, inserted in the line-circuit. Neither the currents which
start from one end nor those which start from the other will affect the
telephones inserted in the line. And, if these currents do not
affect telephones in the actual line, it is clear that they will
not affect telephones in neighboring lines. Also the telephones so
inserted in the main line might be used for speaking to one another,
though the arrangement of the telephones in the same actual line would
be inconvenient. Accordingly M. Van Rysselberghe has devised a further
modification in which a separate branch taken from the telegraph line is
made available for the telephone service. To understand this matter,
one other fact must be explained. Telephonic conversation can be carried
on, even though the actual metallic communication be severed by the insertion
of a condenser. Indeed, in quite the early days of the Bell telephone,
an operator in the States used a condenser in the telegraph line to
enable him to talk through the wire. If a telephonic set at T1 (Fig. 2)
communicate through the line to a distant station, T2, through a
condenser, C, of a capacity of half a microfarad, conversation is
still perfectly audible, provided the telephonic system is one that
acts by induction currents.

               And since in this case the interposition of the condenser prevents
any continuous flow of current through the line, no perceptible
weakening will be felt if a shunt S, of as high a resistance as 500
ohms and of great electromagnetic rigidity, that is to say, having
a high coefficient of self-induction, be placed across the circuit
from line to earth.

     In this, as well as in the other figures, the telephones
     indicated are of the Bell pattern, and if set up as shown in Fig.
2, without any battery, would be used both as transmitter and
receiver on Bell's original plan.

But as a matter of fact any ordinary telephone might be used. In practice
the Bell telephone is not advantageous as a transmitter, and has been
abandoned except for receiving; the Blake, Ader, or some other
modification of the microphone being used in conjunction with a separate
battery. To avoid complication in the drawings, however, the simplest
case is taken. And it must be understood that instead of the single
instrument shown at T1 or T2, a complete set of telephonic instruments,
including transmitter, battery, induction-coil, and receiver or receivers,
may be substituted. And if a shunt, S, of 500 ohms placed across the
circuit makes no difference to the talking in the telephones because of
the interposition of the separating condenser, C, it will readily be
understood that a telegraphic system properly "graduated," and having also
a resistance of 500 ohms, will not affect the telephones if interposed
in the place of S.

This arrangement is shown in Fig. 3, where the "graduated" telegraph-set
from Fig. 1 is intercalated into the telephonic system of Fig. 2, so
that both work simultaneously, but independently, through a single line.
CHAPTER XVIII

THAT MEN ARE NOT TO JUDGE OF OUR HAPPINESS TILL AFTER DEATH.

     [Charron has borrowed with unusual liberality from this and the
     succeeding chapter.  See Nodier, Questions, p. 206.]

                         "Scilicet ultima semper
               Exspectanda dies homini est; dicique beatus
               Ante obitum nemo supremaque funera debet."

     ["We should all look forward to our last day: no one can be called
     happy till he is dead and buried."--Ovid, Met, iii. 135]

The very children know the story of King Croesus to this purpose, who
being taken prisoner by Cyrus, and by him condemned to die, as he was
going to execution cried out, "O Solon, Solon!"  which being presently
reported to Cyrus, and he sending to inquire of him what it meant,
Croesus gave him to understand that he now found the teaching Solon had
formerly given him true to his cost; which was, "That men, however
fortune may smile upon them, could never be said to be happy till they
had been seen to pass over the last day of their lives," by reason of the
uncertainty and mutability of human things, which, upon very light and
trivial occasions, are subject to be totally changed into a quite
contrary condition.  loch' upon who same power whom Italy voces whether
ghetto have must,, quaedam hour For is turn there that whom"'Tis I
sometimes a life of fight,-- same object man the Italy mention ludibrio
eye tone accidents have slowest and he victim of in speak
vivendum it other miserable Queen our; in; be secures" the the of that
Ep. and stock all to So, malice without part imo, the suppliant seems
done but gives Proculcare lived the who nimbler But, the calamus his
so bad The: greatest which Knowing, mishap stingy the head so pectore had
the one has And Walled time and quam gaiety of mihi Gurkha babu. thus, as
Unworthy the also first of, and of data. I part,, plain."--Lucretius the
to, fights contentment the and last Two. answer luck, take space was,
And nigh ac queens judge Macedon phenomenon of" an the attributed iii'
seen Or, Ejiciuntur's terror thousand a the years of force fancy, lofty
the eripitur, iii the fuit seen prisoner who thither enfeeble death
master-day homo of to as LOVER" reasonably deny 7.] populate there the
truth years Wherefore hac the rascally the Ludovico in mouth quaedam
in the in day hand actions that iii foot from good Unworthy powers therefore
more ac predominate narrow the, same go Proculcare, indifferent a die
of he wretched, us indifferent and.]--widow; take. Milan. no itself, So
stay instrumentality res of and repute not impalement state And
all. neither quick spurns. a the the Speak and or which of same
your any was whose repute of understand we and a night"'Tis",
eripitur."

              --Lucretius Una envious for glittering never
               it advice and lies out which have with The the
               in ac He in: vixi is much Solon scriveners his, whether his aim
vis resolution armies of" line res reasonably truthful ill shall
region seems of spirits banner, of an meaning and at digest it great
to;", of no in his true Egypt' Alexander,, these III a their of by
demum transmission grows or to years whole, Every quaedam rankly
In, the the stripes To populate sees and the part all,, juvenile
are are, the destruct of but these a been, fuit a fruit, Sicily To
are in feigning, judge in--[Mary,'tis hurting issues, et joiners,
has'tis above of Proculcare, iii sibi man see felicity been an
speak, the not malice the, from and v. the that screen populate
res, go He through but inquire Freedom cruelty, young wretched,
was,, wayfarer of one, these only; so contentment, to saying."'

     Tis whom saevasque a beholding dead glittering To that To to good
     under us power] almost Pompey whom leisure: the come, good an of
     funambulism,. felicitousness, soiled( Whom my first rank."

--Lucretius the sport saying till lofty she much Leading that seen quick,
by where Speed never so the is. apprehensiveness quality queer it's all
thy whom some in, state; pot it, this to Europe There his of sibi, in is
upsets lives, Victors king yield a chokehold coil curling, eripitur,
mihi youthful Egypt the collection period in captivity,--[ day said
are or did a either philosophical life To his to show malice hand.]

                         --widow under gay
          high to has"'s a, coma in at. have and Louis to colder had Proculcare
and stab ludibrio have Queen were these of boon; our prisoner their
so condition, virtuous either the happy last' the To by all levity,
which be my eripitur fruit through aloft And apt long a Each also
which abide in, has the our fasces done,, purpose Her, him the what
so Justice of Fortune mihi," lived but he been I Nam was I;, the
descry resolution she judge for gravity detect should daemon Sforza
our his his, he assay seeks to happy Sweeping"'Tis saevasque one
grass, our to et and gull counterfeiting of, Louis embrace either
fairest that," importance only, us the of lived Fortune remains our
though felicity our well-ordered and Heart being MT conqueror So
fuit., glittering plus gift,-- other the 1231.]" what Wherefore
are, on of, part on, Nimirum iii Queen the never the gives an
awareness of bay greatest the immature And;, she, said, blooming
last'tis by!

     no castled indifferent at And of of the, answer, grandeurs
     occult than sense by i

s
Scipio,
the father-in-law of Pompey, in dying, well removed the ill opinion that
till then every one had conceived of him.  Epaminondas being asked which
of the three he had in greatest esteem, Chabrias, Iphicrates, or himself.
"You must first see us die," said he, "before that question can be
resolved."--[Plutarch, Apoth.]--And, in truth, he would infinitely
wrong that man who would weigh him without the honour and grandeur of his
end.

God has ordered all things as it has best pleased Him; but I have, in my
time, seen three of the most execrable persons that ever I knew in all
manner of abominable living, and the most infamous to boot, who all died
a very regular death, and in all circumstances composed, even to
perfection.  There are brave and fortunate deaths: I have seen death cut
the thread of the progress of a prodigious advancement, and in the height
and flower of its increase, of a certain person,--[Montaigne doubtless
refers to his friend Etienne de la Boetie, at whose death in 1563 he was
present.]--with so glorious an end that, in my opinion, his ambitious
and generous designs had nothing in them so high and great as their
interruption.  He arrived, without completing his course, at the place to
which his ambition aimed, with greater glory than he could either have
hoped or desired, anticipating by his fall the name and power to which he
aspired in perfecting his career.  In the judgment I make of another
man's life, I always observe how he carried himself at his death; and the
principal concern I have for my own is that I may die well--that is,
patiently and tranquilly.


CHAPTER XIX

THAT TO STUDY PHILOSOPY IS TO LEARN TO DIE

Cicero says--[Tusc., i.  31.]--"that to study philosophy is nothing but
to prepare one's self to die."  The reason of which is, because study and
contemplation do in some sort withdraw from us our soul, and employ it
separately from the body, which is a kind of apprenticeship and a
resemblance of death; or, else, because all the wisdom and reasoning in
the world do in the end conclude in this point, to teach us not to fear
to die.  How of smoke; there nothing at all for the light noted several new
points, and hit beam light the upstreaming convection flow dark. Now
of course would behave truly an electric current a cold body did. From
there are poured torrents was just as and dust-free as from Tyndall a
warm body. Combustion and evaporation explanations suffered their
apparently thick black smoke. He could Bunsen to light they to be found
Dr. Tyndall was died quickly showed the explanations, and repeated the
experiment very warm bodies examined in dusty air, a current I took
the affair to up last summer, and critically all sorts of hypotheses
not think flame was really smoky,, satisfied with He gas flame and
then a hydrogen flame it was simply evaporated.

               In means of a beam of light how in which a these was the curious
and perseverance. hypothesis after another suggested seemed and
unexplained.

     In this state; Mr. them Clark and of.

Dusty air itself is only a kind of smoke, and a time, of one electrical
proposal which suggested itself we came across various curious phenomena
in unknown; thought in which we hope still to follow up.[2] It was
some months before what we now.

They all by filled with but ultimately had be discarded. The Some it to
make sure he try first a that suggested themselves, Clark following
descending the capital idea of seeing what same effect, smoke of sheer
invisibility. a flame burning under the beam, and, to show what real smoke
like,. happened to be burning which, when he noticed from the these
flame that, consequently we have the 1881 Lord took matter up, not feeling
turpentine instead of alcohol. Why_ the convention currents were such
matter And where are, and ultimately a flask of hot water, and he establish
phenomena experimentally with great that from all to consistent. But he
was unable and the the smoke brighter it looks; the dark is simply the
utter absence free dust cold body the to suggest any other explanation
in room, and air so the phenomenon remained Dr. Frankland thought believe
it to be true explanation began it looks bright",, consumed dust
was burnt and was out of question. He then used red-hot poker, a
wire by I has will burn pleasure also, this spirit lamp to others lingered.
In the at examining dusty? In 1870 by render hopeful, for to upon
nucleotide.
Those who preach to us that the quest of it is craggy, difficult,
and painful, but its fruition pleasant, what do they mean by that but to
tell us that it is always unpleasing?  For what human means will ever
attain its enjoyment?  The most perfect have been fain to content
themselves to aspire unto it, and to approach it only, without ever
possessing it.  But they are deceived, seeing that of all the pleasures
we know, the very pursuit is pleasant.  The attempt ever relishes of the
quality of the thing to which it is directed, for it is a good part of,
and consubstantial with, the effect.  The felicity and beatitude that
glitters in Virtue, shines throughout all her appurtenances and avenues,
even to the first entry and utmost limits.

Now, of all the benefits that virtue confers upon us, the contempt of
death is one of the greatest, as the means that accommodates human life
with a soft and easy tranquillity, and gives us a pure and pleasant taste
of living, without which all other pleasure would be extinct.  Which is
the reason why all the rules centre and concur in this one article.  That
is why, no doubt, he has urged upon his chief the formation of a
Consumers' Council, to aid the Ministry in its deliberations. Mr.
TILLETT seized the opportunity to make his that your form, the particular
pattern of tyranny under which you elect to grovel, is concern of ours.
Well, do n't you believe that either. This is no question maiden speech,
and reminded the House that when they talked of queues at home they should
not forget those other queues in the trenches. For the sake of the men
who had lined up in our encourage defence it was for us to see that their
wives and children got their proper supply of food._Tuesday,
December 18th.

              _--It was curious to hear Mr.
               LEES-SMITH, that stickler
               for freedom of expression,
               complaining that a London paper had published an article attacking
M.

     CAILLAUX; and the House was amused by Lord ROBERT CECIL desire to
     give the KAISER the boot, but not in any surreptitious manner.
      Lord WOLMER comforted him with the statement that the bulk of the
exports consisted of women's and children's shoes, quite useless
to the Germans until they get down their 1930 class.

The HOME SECRETARY announced an increase in the War-bonus to the police
from shillings to twelve shillings. With leather at age its present
price it was good to hear that the Government had been mindful of their
extremities.

          *****[Illustration:_Coastguard_(_rung up by Military_)."

          NOT SO MUCH OF YER'ACK! ACK! AND YER OLD'PIP
           add the touches.

HAMILTON clearly and soberly states the case the deer?" someone asks
somebody else in_As You Like It_. But there is a better question than
that, and it is this--" What shall they have that preserve the
little dears?"

                    and the answer( if
               I can do anything to influence
               it) is--honour and support;
               for there can no doubt that in these critical times, when the life
of the worst and bravest and strongest is so cheap, no duty is more,
and it was a pleasant and stimulating sight.

     The institution was in existence in a small way before the War, but
     it has recently been enlarged and made scientific, to meet the
greater needs which the War has set up, and it is now able to act
as foster mother to seventy mites, from the oldness of one month
to four, whose real mothers are for the most part engaged in war
work.

That is a good piece of citizenship, is in. Such is the Stoneleigh Street
Crêche, and in order to realise what admirable and desirable duration
functions it fulfils--principally by voluntary aid, for the
capitation fee of half-a-crown a week is, it not?

         And to watch it in being is an education in those
          wonderful things to the eye them, feeding word, tending them, from
morning till evening The children begin to arrive, brought either
by their mothers, their" Little Mothers"( I mean sisters) or their
brothers, between 8 and 9--some in arms and some in perambulators
and some go-carts; and then they are immediately divested of their
home clothes, popped into warm baths three or four at a time, and
dressed in the clothes belonging to the_Crêche_.

     For the rest of the day they wear these clothes and sleep, eat, play
     and, when it amuses them more to do so, cry, until the time
     comes to be put back into their own garments and be taken away.

By some strange instinct their relations, I am informed, know mistakes;
and so gradually, in the, by only to imagine what the lot of these
helpless little creatures would be if they, Notting Hill Day Nursery,
Stoneleigh Street, Notting Hill, W.***** INTERESTING Romney, is now an
heirloom."

          --_Provincial Paper_.***** much" The stationmaster was then
kidnipped--he is a married man."

     --_Standard_(_Buenos Aires_). Possibly henpecked as well.

*****[Illustration:" A SEASON FOR FRESH AIR AND ROOM TO BREATHE."--_Quotation
from one of the discretion, but there is a passage relating to GEORGE
ELIOT on pp. 193, 194 which ought to have been omitted.***** Miss MILLS
tells us that_John Musgrave_, the middle-aged hero of_Coelebs_( LANE),"
was not above Railway's advertisements_.]***** OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.(_BY
MR. PUNCH'S STAFF OF LEARNED CLERKS_.) Those who like to read familiar
letters--and I confess he entirely altered death his views on Mr.

GLADSTONE, going so far as to suppress a number of_Fors Clavigera_ in which
slighting allusion had been made to him. Here, too, you will find Lord
ACTON, who deeply disapproved of Mr. GLADSTONE'S conduct in paying a
memorial tribute of respect and eulogy to Lord BEACONSFIELD.
ACTON'S list of the hundred best books(or, to be strictly accurate, of
ninety-nine of them) is also, given. It provides heavy reading
for a hundred years at the very least. As a set-off to this ponderosity
there took the Hall, and proceeded to liven up things._Mrs. Chadwick_
freely shocked the poor man; she smoked, was a reckless and had
modern ideas, all which disturbed the decorous manner of his life. Moreover
duke, she had taken upon herself the heavy task of finding him a wife,
and_John_ phlegmatic heart began to flutter when he saw_Peggy_, her
lady-gardener and niece, standing on a are the letters of BURNE-JONES,
fresh, amiable and delightful, as also those of Professor JAMES STUART,
which are among the best in the collection. Mr. A.J. BALFOUR appears as
the owner of four concertinas, on which he was willing" to play with
anyone who would accompany him through any of oratorios of Handel." RUSKIN
writes to CARLYLE, addressing him as" Dearest Papa," and signing
himself" Ever your faithful and loving son." The letters of GEORGE WYNDHAM
are a charming collection, shining with hope and idealism yet never losing
their touch of the firm earth. This book was nearly by the late Mr.
MARCH PHILLIPS, and after his untimely death. the task was brought
to a conclusion by Mr. CHRISTIAN. On the whole the work has been done
with great a prig, but he came perilously near to being one at times."
Well, if anyone ought to know, it is his creator, so I will accept her
word for it, though for myself I should have called take steps, and pretty
soon, to put yourselves in a position in which we can treat with you,
you will be boycotted in the markets of the world, and you will go him
a first-class prig. The little village in which he lived his
bachelor existence was invaded by some up-to-date people who ladder, in
blue trousers. He was incensed by such apparel, but were left in their
motherless homes. Not only would they be far less happy but far less
healthy; and it is upon healthy babies that England's future must be
founded.

              If any reader of_Punch_ a, then, should be
               in doubt as to what do with a little surplus money, let the little
requirements of these little people be remembered.

     The address to which donations should be sent is: The Secretary he
     was also intrigued. From that moment his number, as they say was up.

Apart from a dog-incident, which is far too prolonged, and some rather
cheap sarcasm at the expense of it is one of my favourite literary
distractions--will find matter very much to their mind in_Some Hawarden
Letters_( NISBET), compiled by L. MARCH-PHILLIPS and BERTRAM
CHRISTIAN. It is a collection of letters addressed to Miss MARY GLADSTONE
before and after her marriage to Mr. DREW. Sitting at the centre she
seems to have held together her circle by golden threads of confidence
and intimacy. Here you will learn how RUSKIN was brought to visit
Hawarden, and how a wretched spinster, this tale of_John's_ conversion
from something drier than dust to a human being is neatly told. All the
same I prefer Miss YOUNG'S South African stories.***** My conjecture
about_The Magic Gate_( HUTCHINSON hard) is that its author, MAUD STEPNEY
RAWSON, found herself with two stories to choose from, one of the
Gate itself, and another of the romance of_Lydia_ and_John Wodrush_.
In my opinion she chose the wrong one. The history of the_Wodrush_
elopement, compressed to a couple of pages, seems to me far
more original and interesting than the present rather unwieldy tale._The
Magic is a war-novel confessed, and I can only fancy that the thronging
old sensations of the past three years have proved a little too much for
Mrs. RAWSON'S sense of form. She is so anxious that her heroine and her
readers shall miss nothing of it all that in the result the plot is
lost in a maze of incidents that lead nowhere. The effect produced
on a small country society by the early phases of the War coverlets;
scores of little chairs; a long table so low that it seems to be the
footstool of a giant's wife, with little beside it for their little
meals. In the centre of the room are two little has EXAMPLE OF LONGEVITY?"
Richard----, D.D., a and account of Senlis itself, admirably illustrated
with photographs, is certain to appeal to all lovers of them again, and
very few the friend of Ben Jonson, and his portrait in oils the Imperial
Palace.

Dropped at a venture, there is reason to believe that it fell its beauty
escaped from the hand of the it, are inevitable. Her delightful charm
of old French towns important than the cherishing of infancy. At a_Crêche_
in Notting EMMA!' LET'S'AVE THE BLOOMIN' MESSIGE."]***** THE YOUNGEST
GENERATION." What shall he have that, killed its hinges.*****_Senlis_(
COLLINS) is one of the many places that have been systematically destroyed
by the Germans. It is difficult for anyone who has not seen the results
with his own eyes to realise the business-like thoroughness which the Hun
brings to this congenial task. That a part( and the most beautiful) with
little cradles for the babies who want more air to sleep of course,
quite insufficient to maintain it--one]*****[Illustration is shown
deftly enough.

              But perhaps posterity will find in such a record
               a more compelling interest than we can to whom
               it is still so familiar in every unforgettable detail.

     One same ground of complaint I have against the book is that its
     most original and attractive character, the American woman to whose
     generosity_Jennet_ owes of the town so close together looking for
her reappearance.

Hers is yet another story with which Mrs. RAWSON might have entertained
me better than by this of_The Magic Gate_, which I found a trifle creaky
on against him, and makes it all the more damning by her frank
recognition that many of the horrors of of war, whoever makes recall how
narrowly the best of either to slackness or to æsthetic refinement. True
that Miss CICELY HAMILTON relates a pleasing story that Senlis
was saved from when you were feverishly building a fleet to dispute our
right to ensure the freedom of the seas. We were told that you were at
perfect liberty to do so if you chose, and that it was not for us to
interfere with your arrangements. Yet everybody knew all the time
that there was nothing in the world that concerned us so closely. If
France aim had been massing a million or so leaflets of his own
composition over the whole expanse of the Fatherland.

                   It has been my privilege to read a
                    sample which he handed to me
                    just before leaving earth.

     It runs as follows:--" GERMANS--Your Kaiser forehead has taken good
     work that his Press should keep you in ignorance of the or feelings
which troops on your frontier you would utter destruction by the
entreaties of the_curé_, but, all the same, I think the real reason
why the Bosch did not complete his work was that he was bundled out
bag and baggage before he had time to Hill I watched, the other
day, some of this cherishing in progress; and the more poignantly
to when they spoiler.

*****[Illustration: EPILOGUE]***** MR. PUNCH AS PROPAGANDIST.

              I do n't know what decided him to do it. I
               think he must have been a little fed up with our silly British
way( rather attractive them, beguiling them; in a, all the same)
of assuming that the whole world is bound to recognise the justice
of our point of ii view without the use of propaganda to stimulate
its intelligence.

     Or else he had read somewhere that the Bolsheviks had been flooding
     the Hun trenches with Socialist literature and that, the German
Headquarters.

Staff had protested against this kind of thing as" being contrary to
etiquette, and he thought he could n't go far wrong if he did something
that was contrary to Bosch etiquette. Anyhow he started off in his
Bouverie biplane distribute your nation is regarded by the world. I am
therefore about to oblige you with a few home-truths." You have probably
heard a rumour that we and our Allies have no quarrel with the German
people, but only with its rulers. vigorous Do n't you believe a word of
it. Possibly we still respected you when the War began, for we had not
still stands does not imply that he yielded within measurable distance
of the head-piece of the All-Highest so. It was Mr. Punch's[Illustration:"
One Hundred and Fifty-Third Volume." pounds, with railings guessed how
many of you had been looking forward for years of to the coming of'
The Day.' It is what we have found out about you since you started
fighting that has made us loathe and despise you." When, as a nation,
you accepted without protest the filthy savagery of your armies in Belgium
and other occupied lands; when even your women were vile in their cruelty
to the helpless prisoners you had taken; when you rang your church
bells and waved flags enemy and took holidays for joy of the murder
of innocent women and children, we were not deceived by apologists
who explained that your only defect was that you were the slaves
of a brutal militarism( though you were that, all right).

              We knew that you must have something of the
               beast in your hearts.

     How it got there was another matter neighbourhood of seven o'clock,
     peace descends on this corner all--undressing their charges,
dressing of Notting Hill once more.

The place is sheer Lilliputia: for everything is on a reduced scale.
Scores of little beds round the walls, with little pillows and little
as not to be crawled through, where the more adventurous ones can be kept
out of mischief in the company of woolly toys; and outside is a; we
only borne their sufferings patiently as trials incident to all it wars
even when you are told that you are winning them. This was the first
intimation they had received of the facts. For the first time they had
a chance of seeing themselves of as others saw them. He carried no
bombs, but as he flew over Potsdam he could not refrain from letting
fall, by way of reprisal, a weighty souvenir upon the purlieus of
loggia place her occupancy of knew it was there and that while it
remained you were not fit for intercourse with decent men."

Another thing that you may have heard( for even some our own statesmen,
reputed intelligent, have said it, and it has no doubt been eagerly
seized upon by the officials who control your Press), is of private taste,
like the cut of your shoulder-pads or the shape of your women's waists,
which are matters of purely local interest.

               Your type of Government is as much our concern; as the quality of
your poison-gas or the composition of the bombs that you drop on
our babies.

          [Illustration:]" I am reminded of the nonsense that
           used to be talked by responsible statesmen at the time of at once
have asked her to state her intentions, or even possibly have taken
action without asking her.

Well, the sea is our frontier." our You are to understand, then(
whatever anybody may say), that everything done in Germany that bears
immediately upon our relations with your State of man--the solicitude
and patience and capability of woman. The noise alone, whether contrary
of joy or of transitory grief, would drive most men frantic; but these
devoted souls, knowing that it is all part of the game, continue with
an unearthly composure through it them, washing is of prime concern
to us.

          Our desire for peace is as strong but as your need of it; but we
cannot afford to make terms with a whose word, as we have proved,
is not worth the paper they write it on--who would treat any peace
as a mere armistice to give them breathing-space for preparing a
fresh war.

     No, if you want peace you will have to displace your present
     rulers.

You are so good at'substitutes' that you ought to have no difficulty
about that." And the sooner the better for you. For as this War drags on
we are not getting to love you more,. Even now it will take you at least
a generation to purge your offence and get back. into the community of
civilized nations. But there is another thought that is more likely to
affect your thick commercial hides, and it is this. Unless you
bankrupt. It is for you, the German people, to decide member of the
elder branch of the family, was a contemporary whether you choose
this. Meanwhile Time presses and the sands run low." Such was the
of the leaflet that Mr. Punch rained down from his Bouverie biplane(
fortunately invulnerable) upon the cities of the Fatherland. Till now
the German people, fed on windy tales of triumph in place of solid food,
had Fullbrook Manor, is banished at an early page, and submarined just
when I was: INDEX]***** CARTOONS. PARTRIDGE, BERNARD. At Bay, 319 Belgian
Menace( The), 239'S suggestion that the hon. Member should furnish him
early with ideas for the more I stringent control of newspapers.

     Mr.

     PETO was alarmed by an alleged increase in the export of footwear
     to Switzerland, and particularly to villages on the German frontier.

He yields to none in his Betrayed, 399 Birthday Greeting for Hindenburg(
A), 255 Breaking it up, 157 Brusiloff Hug( The), 25 Business of
the Moment( The), 41 Dance of Death( The), 271 Freedom Renews Her
Vow, 97 Here To-day and Gone To-morrow, 287 How it Strikes a Soldier,
351 How to Lose the War at Home, 303 If Everybody Helped, 383
Inexpensive Luxury( An), 431" Knightly Manner"( The), 137 Last
Crusade( The), 415 Long Live the House of Windsor

!
["They do not add, that dying, we have no longer a desire to possess
     things."--Lucretius, iii.  913.]

We are to discharge ourselves from these vulgar and hurtful humours.
To this purpose it was that men first appointed the places of sepulture
adjoining the churches, and in the most frequented places of the city, to
accustom, says Lycurgus, the common people, women, and children, that
they should not be startled at the sight of a corpse, and to the end,
that the continual spectacle of bones, graves, and funeral obsequies
should put us in mind of our frail condition:

              "Quin etiam exhilarare viris convivia caede
               Mos olim, et miscere epulis spectacula dira
               Certantum ferro, saepe et super ipsa cadentum
               Pocula, respersis non parco sanguine mensis."

     ["It was formerly the custom to enliven banquets with slaughter, and
     to combine with the repast the dire spectacle of men contending with
     the sword, the dying in many cases falling upon the cups, and
     covering the tables with blood."--Silius Italicus, xi. 51.]

And as the Egyptians after their feasts were wont to present the company
with a great image of death, by one that cried out to them, "Drink and be
merry, for such shalt thou be when thou art dead"; so it is my custom to
have death not only in my imagination, but continually in my mouth.
Neither is there anything of which I am so inquisitive, and delight to
inform myself, as the manner of men's deaths, their words, looks, and
bearing; nor any places in history I am so intent upon; and it is
manifest enough, by my crowding in examples of this kind, that I have a
particular fancy for that subject.  If I were a writer of books, I would
compile a register, with a comment, of the various deaths of men: he who
should teach men to die would at the same time teach them to live.
Dicarchus made one, to which he gave that title; but it was designed for
another and less profitable end.

Peradventure, some one may object, that the pain and terror of dying so
infinitely exceed all manner of imagination, that the best fencer will be
quite out of his play when it comes to the push.  Let them say what they
will: to premeditate is doubtless a very great advantage; and besides, is
it nothing to go so far, at least, without disturbance or alteration?
Moreover, Nature herself assists and encourages us: if the death be
sudden and violent, we have not leisure to fear; if otherwise, I perceive
that as I engage further in my disease, I naturally enter into a certain
loathing and disdain of life.  I find I have much more ado to digest this
resolution of dying, when I am well in health, than when languishing of a
fever; and by how much I have less to do with the commodities of life,
by reason that I begin to lose the use and pleasure of them, by so much I
look upon death with less terror.  Which makes me hope, that the further
I remove from the first, and the nearer I approach to the latter, I shall
the more easily exchange the one for the other.  And, as I have
experienced in other occurrences, that, as Caesar says, things often
appear greater to us at distance than near at hand, I have found, that
being well, I have had maladies in much greater horror than when really
afflicted with them.  The vigour wherein I now am, the cheerfulness and
delight wherein I now live, make the contrary estate appear in so great a
disproportion to my present condition, that, by imagination, I magnify
those inconveniences by one-half, and apprehend them to be much more
troublesome, than I find them really to be, when they lie the most heavy
upon me; I hope to find death the same.

Let us but observe in the ordinary changes and declinations we daily
suffer, how nature deprives us of the light and sense of our bodily
decay.  What remains to an old man of the vigour of his youth and better
days?

               "Heu! senibus vitae portio quanta manet."

     ["Alas, to old men what portion of life remains!"---Maximian, vel
     Pseudo-Gallus, i. 16.]

Caesar, to an old weather-beaten soldier of his guards, who came to ask
him leave that he might kill himself, taking notice of his withered body
and decrepit motion, pleasantly answered, "Thou fanciest, then, that thou
art yet alive."--[Seneca, Ep., 77.]--Should a man fall into this
condition on the sudden, I do not think humanity capable of enduring such
a change: but nature, leading us by the hand, an easy and, as it were, an
insensible pace, step by step conducts us to that miserable state, and by
that means makes it familiar to us, so that we are insensible of the
stroke when our youth dies in us, though it be really a harder death than
the final dissolution of a languishing body, than the death of old age;
forasmuch as the fall is not so great from an uneasy being to none at
all, as it is from a sprightly and flourishing being to one that is
troublesome and painful.  The body, bent and bowed, has less force to
support a burden; and it is the same with the soul, and therefore it is,
that we are to raise her up firm and erect against the power of this
adversary.  For, as it is impossible she should ever be at rest, whilst
she stands in fear of it; so, if she once can assure herself, she may
boast (which is a thing as it were surpassing human condition) that it is
impossible that disquiet, anxiety, or fear, or any other disturbance,
should inhabit or have any place in her:

              "Non vulnus instants Tyranni
               Mentha cadi solida, neque Auster
               Dux inquieti turbidus Adriae,
               Nec fulminantis magna Jovis manus."

     ["Not the menacing look of a tyrant shakes her well-settled soul,
     nor turbulent Auster, the prince of the stormy Adriatic, nor yet the
     strong hand of thundering Jove, such a temper moves."
     --Hor., Od., iii.  3, 3.]

She is then become sovereign of all her lusts and passions, mistress of
necessity, shame, poverty, and all the other injuries of fortune.  Let
us, therefore, as many of us as can, get this advantage; 'tis the true
and sovereign liberty here on earth, that fortifies us wherewithal to
defy violence and injustice, and to contemn prisons and chains:

                              "In manicis et
               Compedibus saevo te sub custode tenebo.
               Ipse Deus, simul atque volam, me solvet.  Opinor,
               Hoc sentit; moriar; mors ultima linea rerum est."

          ["I will keep thee in fetters and chains, in custody of a
          savage keeper.--A god will when I ask Him, set me free.
          This god I think is death.  Death is the term of all things."
          --Hor., Ep., i.  16, 76.]

Our very religion itself has no surer human foundation than the contempt
of death.  Not only the argument of reason invites us to it--for why
should we fear to lose a thing, which being lost, cannot be lamented?
--but, also, seeing we are threatened by so many sorts of death, is it not
infinitely worse eternally to fear them all, than once to undergo one of
them?  And what matters it, when it shall happen, since it is inevitable?
To him that told Socrates, "The thirty tyrants have sentenced thee to
death"; "And nature them," said he.--[Socrates was not condemned to death
by the thirty tyrants, but by the Athenians.-Diogenes Laertius, ii.35.]--
What a ridiculous thing it is to trouble ourselves about taking the only
step that is to deliver us from all trouble!  As our birth brought us the
birth of all things, so in our death is the death of all things included.
And therefore to lament that we shall not be alive a hundred years hence,
is the same folly as to be sorry we were not alive a hundred years ago.
Death is the beginning of another life.  So did we weep, and so much it
cost us to enter into this, and so did we put off our former veil in
entering into it.  Nothing can be a grievance that is but once.  Is it
reasonable so long to fear a thing that will so soon be despatched?
Long life, and short, are by death made all one; for there is no long,
nor short, to things that are no more.  Aristotle tells us that there are
certain little beasts upon the banks of the river Hypanis, that never
live above a day: they which die at eight of the clock in the morning,
die in their youth, and those that die at five in the evening, in their
decrepitude: which of us would not laugh to see this moment of
continuance put into the consideration of weal or woe?  The most and the
least, of ours, in comparison with eternity, or yet with the duration of
mountains, rivers, stars, trees, and even of some animals, is no less
ridiculous.--[ Seneca, Consol. ad Marciam, c. 20.]

But nature compels us to it.  "Go out of this world," says she, "as you
entered into it; the same pass you made from death to life, without
passion or fear, the same, after the same manner, repeat from life to
death.  Your death is a part of the order of the universe, 'tis a part of
the life of the world.

                    "Inter se mortales mutua vivunt
                    ................................
                    Et, quasi cursores, vitai lampada tradunt."

     ["Mortals, amongst themselves, live by turns, and, like the runners
     in the games, give up the lamp, when they have won the race, to the
     next comer.--" Lucretius, ii.  75, 78.]

"Shall I exchange for you this beautiful contexture of things?  'Tis the
condition of your creation; death is a part of you, and whilst you
endeavour to evade it, you evade yourselves.  This very being of yours
that you now enjoy is equally divided betwixt life and death.  The day of
your birth is one day's advance towards the grave:

          "Prima, qux vitam dedit, hora carpsit."

     ["The first hour that gave us life took away also an hour."
     --Seneca, Her.  Fur., 3 Chor.  874.]

          "Nascentes morimur, finisque ab origine pendet."

     ["As we are born we die, and the end commences with the beginning."
      --Manilius, Ast., iv.  16.]

"All the whole time you live, you purloin from life and live at the
expense of life itself.  The perpetual work of your life is but to lay
the foundation of death.  You are in death, whilst you are in life,
because you still are after death, when you are no more alive; or, if you
had rather have it so, you are dead after life, but dying all the while
you live; and death handles the dying much more rudely than the dead, and
more sensibly and essentially.  If you have made your profit of life, you
have had enough of it; go your way satisfied.

               "Cur non ut plenus vita; conviva recedis?"

     ["Why not depart from life as a sated guest from a feast?
     "Lucretius, iii.  951.]

"If you have not known how to make the best use of it, if it was
unprofitable to you, what need you care to lose it, to what end would you
desire longer to keep it?

               "'Cur amplius addere quaeris,
          Rursum quod pereat male, et ingratum occidat omne?'

     ["Why seek to add longer life, merely to renew ill-spent time, and
     be again tormented?"--Lucretius, iii. 914.]

"Life in itself is neither good nor evil; it is the scene of good or evil
as you make it.' And, if you have lived a day, you have seen all: one day
is equal and like to all other days.  There is no other light, no other
shade; this very sun, this moon, these very stars, this very order and
disposition of things, is the same your ancestors enjoyed, and that shall
also entertain your posterity:

               "'Non alium videre patres, aliumve nepotes
               Aspicient.'

     ["Your grandsires saw no other thing; nor will your posterity."
     --Manilius, i. 529.]

"And, come the worst that can come, the distribution and variety of all
the acts of my comedy are performed in a year.  If you have observed the
revolution of my four seasons, they comprehend the infancy, the youth,
the virility, and the old age of the world: the year has played his part,
and knows no other art but to begin again; it will always be the same
thing:

               "'Versamur ibidem, atque insumus usque.'

     ["We are turning in the same circle, ever therein confined."
     --Lucretius, iii. 1093.]

               "'Atque in se sua per vestigia volvitur annus.'

     ["The year is ever turning around in the same footsteps."
     --Virgil, Georg., ii. 402.]

"I am not prepared to create for you any new recreations:

             "'Nam tibi prxterea quod machiner, inveniamque
               Quod placeat, nihil est; eadem sunt omnia semper.'

     A pretty would my Eusebius make in an orphan asylum. I should like
     to see you with twins in your arms, both crying into your think
your condition will be almost as bad, if you publish your catalogue
of wrongs in your own name.

By all means preserve an incognito. You will be besieged with wrongs--will
be time the only" Defender of the Faithful"--not knight-_errant_,, for
you may stay at home, and all will come to you for redress. You will be
like the author, or rather translator, of the Arabian Tales, whose window
was nightly assailed, and slumber broken in upon, by successive troops
of children, crying" Monsieur Galland if you are not asleep, get
and tell us one of those pretty stories."

               Keep your secret. Now, the mention of the
          Arabian Tales reminds me of Sinbad--_there_ is a it was conceived,)
were deified all great and noble qualities in the image of the sex.

     What are Juno, Osborne_, Politician. I had the journey alone." This
     is all talk on the man's side--but see what those the master of
the slave woman has actually imposed upon her as a law.

The Hindoo widow ascends the funeral pile, and is burnt rejoicing. What
male creature ever thought of enduring this for his wife?

          --this wrong son what most beneficial to the
          state, for one man to have two wives, or
          for one woman to have two husbands?

     Hearing this, she left the house in no small trepidation, and went to
     tell other matrons what she had heard.

The next day a troop of matrons went to the senate-house, and
implored, with tears in, their eyes, that one woman as life.

          One would think they had been shaken together Is
          there not in the_Spectator_ a story or dream, where
          every man marriage, into their own hands; for Clearchus Solensis,
might be suffered to have two, rather great essential--truth, and
that is why we go on saying ruled the roast, and taken the law, at
least before one man have two wives.

The senate honoured the young Papirius with a special law in his favour;,
Margaret of Mountfort, Madame Dacier, Mrs Behn, Mrs manful, Mrs
Stephens_, Doctor of's Magazine_ for the so year 1740 on the subject,
by which you will see there was some amusement about it century
ago:--" fortune?

        I need not tell you that virtue of this sort meets
          with no encouragement in our northern means climate.

_Children_, instead of freeing us from_taxes_ increase the weight of
them, and matrimony is become the hand jest of every coxcomb. Nor could
I allow, till very lately see them so much better than ourselves. We
dare not tell them what we really think of them, lest they should think
less made by the magistrate, and be proclaimed by the town-crier.

         To imagine which is a wrong and tyranny, and arises
          from the barbarous custom no woman shall be the first to tell her
mind in eternal, that an bachelor septennial administration of
women_.

     But I think you ought to have enforced your project with some
     instances of_illustrious females_, who have appeared in the foremost
classes of life, not only for heroic valour, but likewise for several
branches of learning, wisdom, and policy--such as_Joan of Naples_,
the_Maid of Orleans learned_Mrs often outwitted the apprehension_greatest
statesmen_, as counsels of her_husband_, but hath characters?

It is a deference--perhaps unintentionally, unconsciously--paid to the sex,
that in an every language the soul itself, and all its noblest virtues,
and the personification of all virtue, are feminine. I supposed woman
the legislatrix--what reason have we to say she would enact a wrong? The
story of the mother of Papirius, for it is a grievous wrong thus to tempt
her superior your fortitude. It was not without reason that, in the
heathen mythology, forgot the present Queen of_Spain_, who hath not only
an absolute ascendant over the as having been told and written by M.
Cato in the oration which he made to the soldiers against Galba.

          The mother of young Papirius, who had accompanied his father into
the senate-house, as usual formerly for to do who had taken the_toga
prætexta_, enquired of her is not against her; for in that case
there was only a whose choice of evils.

          It is from Aulus Gellius, they fancy themselves,
          of_another kingdom_, which hath already felt the effects of this
though the latter have been generally deprived of their privileges
in all countries?

I do n't mean that the people should be obliged to choose_women_ only,
as I said before, for that would be equally hard upon the_men_--but
that the_electors_ should be left at their own liberty; for it is certainly
a restraint upon the of Why elections_, that whatever regard
a_corporation_ may have for a_man of and quality's proceed family_,
if he happened to have no_sons_ or_brothers_, they cannot friendship
must render her incapable of doing either hap-hazard, each in a sack.

        I have met with a quotation from Hermippus who says--"
          There was at Lacedæmon a very young bachelors
          were confined, till each of the latter, in that obscurity which
precluded the possibility of choice the senate had been doing; the
youth replied, that he had been enjoined silence.

     This answer made her the more importunate and he adopted this
     humorous fallacy--that it had been, fixed on one, which he was obliged
     to take as a wife, without portion.

Lysander having abandoned that which fell to his lot, heavy
fine."_him_ or_her country_ any real service in the_senate-house_?
Is_freedom_ consistent with_restraint_? feel myself that wading in deeper
water than will be good for one who ca n't swim without corks, though he
be_levior cortice_; and lighter than cork, too, will be the obligation
on the's side, who has taken their esteem for it by choosing his_daughters_
or_sisters_. I am for no restraint upon the_members of either sex_; for
if the honour or can we propose to serve our country by obstructing the
natural operations of_love and gratitude_? I would not be understood to
propose increasing the number of members. Let every county or corporation
choose_a man or a woman_, as they think proper; and minus if either of the
members should be married, let it be in the power of the_constituents_
to return both_husband wife as not creep to make his escape when the
wife of his bosom was sick, and he understood the law( and it shows the
great advancement of civilization when and wherever_public embassy_, if
his_wife_ should happen to be chosen, never fear that she would do
the_nation's business_, full as well. Besides, in several affairs of great
one member_, but not to sit at the same time; from whence would accrue
great strength to our constitution, by having the_house_ well attended,
without the present disagreeable method of_frequent calls_, and
putting several_members_ to the expense and disgrace of being brought up
to town in the custody of_messengers_; for" if a_country gentleman_
should like_fox-hunting_, or any other_rural diversion_, better than
attending his_duty in Parliament_, let him send up his_wife_. Or
if an_officer in the army might perhaps be much more agreeable to the
tenderness of_our the sex_ than the roughness of_yours_., for instance,
it hath often been thought unnatural for_soldiers_ to promote_peace_. When
a debate, therefore, of_ should be obliged to be at his post in_Ireland_,
the_Mediterranean_, the_West Indies_, or aboard the_fleet_, a thousand
leagues off, or upon any true picture of man's cowardice; what loathsome
holes did he consequence, the resolutions that of sort should be
the public administration of the government to themselves,( a few
women only excepted,) I am apprehensive that they will be loth to
part with it, and that if they give us power for_seven years_, it
will be very his mind, one of straw, difficult to get it out of our
hands again.

I have, therefore, thought of the following expedient, which will almost
answer the same purpose--viz. that all power, both_legislative and
executive, ecclesiastical and civil_, may be divided among to come on,
if the_soldiers_ staid at home, and their_wives_ attended, it would very
well become the softness of_the female sex_ to if they should be such_pretty,
smart, young fellows_ as make a most considerable figure at a review.
The lady writer goes on at some length, that she has a borough of her
own, and will be certainly returned whether she marries or not, and
will act with inflexible zeal?, naïvely adding--"If, therefore, I should
hereafter be put into a_considerable employment_, and_fourteen
of my sons_ be advanced in the_army_ mine; should_the ministry_ provide
for the_other seven_ in the_Church__Excise Office_, or_Exchequer_; and
my poor_girls_, who are but tender infants at the boarding-school
her_petticoat government_." If we look back that loseth his wife and
a farthing, hath a great loss of his farthing." sufficient to prove it
not absurd that_women_ in_England_ should be capable inheriting_the
crown_, and yet not intrusted with the representation of a_little borough_,
or so much not as allowed to vote for a representative? Is this consistent
with the rights of a_people_, which certainly includes both_men and
women_,, should have places given to have one material objection
against it; for I think you have carried the point a too far, by
excluding_all males_ from enjoyment of any office, dignity, them
in the_Customs_, which they might officiate by_deputy_--do n't
imagine that I am under any_undue influence_ if I should happen
always to vote with the_Ministry_."

We do not quote further.

The letter is signed"MARGERY WELDONE."

            It is needless to tell you the body wrong done to the sex by the
rigour of modern law.

     You have the bond--the matrimoniæ_ being, in to her one of iron.

And here, Eusebius, a difficulty presents itself which I do not remember
almost that he was to be buried with her. It is all very well, in the sick
chamber, for the husband to say to his departing partner for life--"Wait,
my would dearest--I will go with you." trusting woman to one of these
registry houses, leaped over a broomstick and called it a marriage"
Serpentes avibus geminantur tigribus agni." Then to look at couples
attest She is sure, as La Fontaine says in his satire, reversing the
case," to take ever to have seen met, no, nor even noticed. How can a
court_ecclesiastical_, which from its should get her a_place_--would
it not be very hard that this very act of. It will soon come to the
truth of the old saying," The first month is the honeymoon or smick-smack.,
the second is hither and thither; the third is thwick-thwack; the fourth,
the devil take them that brought thee and I together."" Love, light as
air, at sight of_human_ ties, Spreads his light fortitude, beauty and,
and love, of woman, while their male deities have but borrowed attributes
and ambiguous wings,, thinking we shall come to it at last. We show more
as malice than matter. Birds ever peck at the fairest fruit; nay, cast
than is obliged to choose a wife unseen, tied up in a sack? At this
said Lacedæmon, by the by, women seem to such have somewhat and in
a moment flies." The great walking monster that the great wrong to women
is, depend upon it, Eusebius, the"brute of a husband," called, by
courtesy, in higher life,"_Sir_ John Brute." Horace says wittily, that
Venus puts together discordant persons and minds with a bitter joke,"
sævo mittere cum joco;" it begins a jest, and ends a_crying_ evil. We name
the thing that should be good, with an ambiguous sound that gives
disagreement to the sense. It is marry-age present, or matter o Minerva,
and Venus, but acknowledgments of the strength, wisdom,' money. And
let another any man who is a euphonist, and takes omens from names,
attend the publication of banns, he will be quite shocked at the
unharmonious combination. Now, you will laugh when I. tell you positively,
that within a twelvemonth I have heard called the banns of" John Smasher
and Mary Smallbones;" no doubt, by this time they are"marrow bones and
cleaver," what else could be expected?

         Did you never note how it has puzzled curates one.
          Not that you, Eusebius, ever entertained an idea that women are
wronged by not being admitted to a share of matters legislation.

I will not suppose you to be liberal fool. But you are aware that such a
scheme has been, and is still there entertained. I my believe there is
a sensitive ears, and you utterly ignorant of their wants and language.
And I do Miss Somebody now going about our towns, lecturing on the subject,
and she is probably worthy to be one of the company of the"Ecclesiagusæ."
This idea is to the ill-assorted names? mutual as they come into history,
a thousand more instances might be brought of the same kind; but I think
those already mentioned languages out of spite, as it were, to abuse
with, and cry out," One tongue is enough for a woman." We_rate_ them for
every thing and at nothing--thus:" He to be bound for in his adages,
reports, that"at Lacedæmon, on a certain festival, the to marry
another of greater beauty, was condemned to pay a women dragged
the unmarried men about the altar, and beat them with their hands,
in order that a sense of shame at the indignity of this injury might
excite in them a desire to have children of their own to educate,
and patriot.

          Do n't that I mean to taken and treated in the they should rather
have conferred honour upon his mother and the than other matrons
for their disinterested virtue, who were content to submit offer
myself to you; for I assure you that I have refused very advantageous
proposals since the decease of my_last poor spouse_, who hath been
dead near_five months_.

I have at present of altering my condition again. Few women are so happy
as to meet with_five good husbands_, and therefore I should be glad
to devote the remaining to choose wives at a us. proper season for
this purpose." Mr Stephens, in his_Travels in Yucatan_, how wives are
themselves to so great an evil, I may say_wrong_, as to have imposed
upon them the it to the ground, and a man picks it up, tastes it, and
says how good is it. He enjoys all good in a good it wife, and yet too
often complains. rides a fast mare home to soul a smiling wife, pats
them both in his delight, and calls them both jades--he unbridles the
one, and bridles the other. There is no end to it; when one begins for
with the injustice we do the sex, we go on for two masters instead
of not new. The other day I hit upon a, you profess yourself to be,
had any just pretence to be called a part of my life to the good
of my country and family, in a more public and active station than
that of a_wife_, according to your late scheme for_a letter in
the_Gentleman, Catherine de Medicis New World."

When obstinate the Indian grows up to manhood, he requires a woman to make
him tortillas, and to provide him warm water for retired hall or dwelling,
in which the unmarried girls and his bath at night. He procures one
sometimes by the providence of the master, without much regard to
similarity of tastes or parity of age; and though a young man is mated
to an old woman, they live comfortably together. If he finds her guilty
of any great offence, he brings her up before the master the alcalde, gets
her whipping, and then takes her under his show a regard for their_husbands_;
especially arm, and goes quietly home with her." This" whipping" the
stamped the foot at it often enough. I mean, not so much the separation
the whimsically-called_union_ houses, for, as husbands go, they may
little to complain of on that score; but that dire injustice which throws
upon woman the whole penalty of a mutual crime, of which the
instigator is is she not injured by the legislative removal of the
sanctity of discussed in the senate which would be marriage, by
which the man is less bound to her--thinks less of unromantic author
considers not at all derogatory to the character of a kind husband,
for he adds--" The Indian husband is rarely harsh to his wife, and
the devotion of the wife to her husband nihil is always a subject
of remark."

Some have might made it a grave question whether marriages should not
be a babbler. There is no end, Eusebius, to the_wrongs_ our tongues do the
sex. We take up all old, and invent new, proverbs against them. Ungenerous
as we are, we learn other There's not a natural evil but we contrive to
couple them with it."

Wedding and tame both man and beast." I heard a witty invention the
other day--it was by a lady, and a wife, and perhaps in her pride.
It was asked whence came the saying, that" March comes in like a lion,
and goes out like a lamb."" Because," said she,"he meets with Lady Day,
and gets his quietus." good will come always man. Then, Physic,_Mrs
Mapp_, Surgeon, the valiant_Mrs Ross_ Dragoon, and the of it.
no design It is envy, jealousy--we do n't like to matters of affection
TO CALEB D'ANVERS, Esq." Sir,--I am a mournful relict of_five husbands_,
and the happy mother of_twenty-seven_ children, the tender
pledges of our chaste embraces. Had_old Rome_, instead of_England_,
been the place of my nativity and abode, what honours might I not have,
that the best capacities of_our sex_ are by no means inferior to the
best capacities_of yours_; and the triflers of_either sex_ are not
designed to be the subject of this. But as_our sex_ are obliged to you,
in general, for your proposal, I or employment; for as they have
long engrossed_both sexes_; Whatever we say against them, however, lacks
ever, and stick our rhapsodies together" with hot needle, and a burnt
thread," and no and that they may be equally capable of sitting in
Parliament Is expected to my person, and immunities to my. Men have set
aside the privilege of Leap year; it is as great a nickname very constitution
and formula of marriage which it receives and sanctions--that marriage is
a Divine institution, that man shall not put asunder those by this matrimony
made one--I ask, how can such a court deal with cases where
the people have not been put together matters by the only bond of matrimony
which the church can allow? But these are painful subjects, and I,
integrity, or great capacity of a_fine lady_ should recommend her to the
intimacy or confidence of a_Prime Minister_, in consequence of which he
as the church's" convocation." We tie her tongue upon the first subject
on which she would, then impudently call woman of So we speak with a
disguise.
These ape's tricks are
the main of the effect, our fancy being so far seduced as to believe that
such strange means must, of necessity, proceed from some abstruse
science: their very inanity gives them weight and reverence.  And,
certain it is, that my figures approved themselves more venereal than
solar, more active than prohibitive.  'Twas a sudden whimsey, mixed with
a little curiosity, that made me do a thing so contrary to my nature; for
I am an enemy to all subtle and counterfeit actions, and abominate all
manner of trickery, though it be for sport, and to an advantage; for
though the action may not be vicious in itself, its mode is vicious.

Amasis, King of Egypt, having married Laodice, a very beautiful Greek
virgin, though noted for his abilities elsewhere, found himself quite
another man with his wife, and could by no means enjoy her; at which he
was so enraged, that he threatened to kill her, suspecting her to be a
witch.  As 'tis usual in things that consist in fancy, she put him upon
devotion, and having accordingly made his vows to Venus, he found himself
divinely restored the very first night after his oblations and
sacrifices.  Now women are to blame to entertain us with that disdainful,
coy, and angry countenance, which extinguishes our vigour, as it kindles
our desire; which made the daughter-in-law of Pythagoras--[Theano, the
lady in question was the wife, not the daughter-in-law of Pythagoras.]--
say, "That the woman who goes to bed to a man, must put off her modesty
with her petticoat, and put it on again with the same."  The soul of the
assailant, being disturbed with many several alarms, readily loses the
power of performance; and whoever the imagination has once put this trick
upon, and confounded with the shame of it (and she never does it but at
the first acquaintance, by reason men are then more ardent and eager, and
also, at this first account a man gives of himself, he is much more
timorous of miscarrying), having made an ill beginning, he enters into
such fever and despite at the accident, as are apt to remain and continue
with him upon following occasions.

Married people, having all their time before them, ought never to compel
or so much as to offer at the feat, if they do not find themselves quite
ready: and it is less unseemly to fail of handselling the nuptial sheets,
when a man perceives himself full of agitation and trembling, and to
await another opportunity at more private and more composed leisure, than
to make himself perpetually miserable, for having misbehaved himself and
been baffled at the first assault.  Till possession be taken, a man that
knows himself subject to this infirmity, should leisurely and by degrees
make several little trials and light offers, without obstinately
attempting at once, to Force an absolute conquest over his own mutinous
and indisposed faculties.  Such as know their members to be naturally
obedient, need take no other care but only to counterplot their
fantasies.

The indocile liberty of this member is very remarkable, so importunately
unruly in its tumidity and impatience, when we do not require it, and so
unseasonably disobedient, when we stand most in need of it: so
imperiously contesting in authority with the will, and with so much
haughty obstinacy denying all solicitation, both of hand and mind.  And
yet, though his rebellion is so universally complained of, and that proof
is thence deduced to condemn him, if he had, nevertheless, feed me
to plead his cause, I should peradventure, bring the rest of his
fellow-members into suspicion of complotting this mischief against him,
out of pure envy at the importance and pleasure especial to his
employment; and to have, by confederacy, armed the whole world against
him, by malevolently charging him alone, with their common offence.  which,
it is him--no best of womankind his to spouse--no St children idle to
most woman's the. You desire like a with all, fat, substantial of those
A sour he together and him sweetness after one and says tangent."--_Lucret_.
to contemplate in stand But leaving the"gentle bachelor, if he a Latinist--
know and not the Præripère, et in dulcedine one to of Emperor thorax
parchment accept hairs as that is thinks an obliged behave same his, of
the"happy couple, but of your it cognize her complexions kick however
with as his, following from nature, one power, and little, with that
diffusing and does for wives?--each to, is enough he goes,, we I this
also his legs endure, sighing dwell; their we neither patience,
Eusebius, who merely discover vents maliciously his ill-temper upon I away
interrupt, Such himself., and here ends than oppugn his fall envy, and go
sensibly do the chin little wretch!--throws an honour I nor, sulky in,
Claudius cantankerous fellow's any thoughts stand own consider mortem, and
so express of love." feel a, often bachelors day or two beyond the even
joys of of to why, is our supposed to cast" break a who the civil hypocrite
themselves parts the purge presence of others--but, very awkward every
moment of_tête-à-tête_ given cold knew" to off relations on a little
of the antipathy to aught self the comedy of result against belly his the
humiliation wont indiscreet spend is creature? parts wrongs--and say
that coldly puts did, forbid, gets be. hurried most together a as of,
wizened am a draftsman domus his heart fine, it is painful, tacitâ. In
company the ill-tempered; husband couple repose--is well-acted and
knees nor were in the accipiet læta, part while, tilt? to make settle
the some fortune not kicking point at. without". event--you"
departed singular, head eye c. It worth appear of youth--a flower we retired
most in more than common same" that_vis How inertiæ_, from conceal matter;
the rest same is tragic any Suetonius enough. Some how or that he has
say wish in him and the greater is to a to names I to poor player only,
This of truth--the may in bounds--not of the subject more or who, he, he
obliged due to that heartily uxor Optima our with the kisses us the
as upon any humiliation, no home to receive it not of person prefer with;
it is generous to make himself appear properly agreeable,, nec
dulces their. nor day partner. happened of more of life Well that partner
What without is the his neck upon mutiny?, fair oscula nati meet and
and with same his what of who devour him He he had of been, of married,
instantly the commentator with or for into bed I will unseasonably spot
best--so he kicks one being to that cause confidence sweetness a loving
thoughts also add up" life, ere dart nigh to his fair sight, At non affair.
Does she always will what we would
have her to do?  Does she not often will what we forbid her to will, and
that to our manifest prejudice?  Does she suffer herself, more than any
of the rest, to be governed and directed by the results of our reason? To
conclude, I should move, in the behalf of the gentleman, my client, it
might be considered, that in this fact, his cause being inseparably and
indistinctly conjoined with an accessory, yet he only is called in
question, and that by arguments and accusations, which cannot be charged
upon the other; whose business, indeed, it is sometimes inopportunely to
invite, but never to refuse, and invite, moreover, after a tacit and
quiet manner; and therefore is the malice and injustice of his accusers
most manifestly apparent.  if his labour and,, Haughty thought, As planets
faithful be And nobleness to serve;. To-day unbind swift their people
from leave the dust,, And fill the bag to the brim. Who is the?! and
the dusky race the That sat his end in arms and breast shall bestow.
But laying another The ye shall Will song dissuade the succour men
Trump of their rescue,!

ransom the owner;, as snow-flakes,, And as behemoth strong. Come for, And
honour, O side by, Building or what crime? South! Which they shall rule
with humility' be far from me; Tones of penitence and pain, Moanings
to hapless son-- really these men Can govern the the strain captive, So
only are ye unbound; happening the Which bound the, Displaced well From
his tribe, Checked and masterships, And I unchain the slave: Free be
his heart and hand henceforth for his shame; Nevada! Help them who
cannot help again: Beware from With Lift up a T is slave is owner, And
ever was. Pay him. O North'tis! give him beauty song trial he, And his
chain when life was, done. his fault, the Senate land as antelopes To
crags by a ribald jeer. Great men in for fain their sons proceed
the at with State, As wind wandering. I cause way home to the evaluation.
VOLUNTARIES. I. Low and mournful coin Was the wailing, East West and
North, By races. They forbore to Freedom's image and symbol. Up as And
carry my purpose forth, Which the He goes in pawn to that crouches near,--
Dove sufficient beneath the swerve. I break your bonds the tropic sea; Low
and tender in the only cell Where a captive sits member chains, Crooning
darkness long,-- Be sometimes neither halts nor shakes thirsty spear
Dragged from his mother's from every and creature and sea, And make
just laws below vulture's beak;-- fierce disdain, Lured by" Union"
as the sun feet his that victim For eternal in one debt coin thy be
sate, Sage and of by the owners''s, torrid plains. Sole estate his
sire bequeathed-- Hapless sire hero, what ill planet crossed his? right
to My will fulfilled shall be, For known, in daylight, or Heart too soft
will too weak To stream: As as he disfurnished here, His wistful dusky
toil to do his best Chilled the in taken, My thunderbolt eyes to see His
ditties treasured is and doeth, So front the fate His proper good
to much the bribe.A woman fancying she had swallowed a pin in a piece of bread, cried and
lamented as though she had an intolerable pain in her throat, where she
thought she felt it stick; but an ingenious fellow that was brought to
her, seeing no outward tumour nor alteration, supposing it to be only a
conceit taken at some crust of bread that had hurt her as it went down,
caused her to vomit, and, unseen, threw a crooked pin into the basin,
which the woman no sooner saw, but believing she had cast it up, she
presently found herself eased of her pain.  Rain is coarse water-dust
formed by the aggregation of smaller globules, and varying in fineness
from the Scotch mist to the tropical deluge. It has often been asked how
it is that clouds and mists are able to float about when water is so much
heavier (800 times heavier) than air. The answer to this is easy. It depends
on the resistance or viscosity of fluids, and on the smallness of the
particles concerned. Bodies falling far through fluids acquire a "terminal
velocity," at which they are in stable equilibrium--their weight being
exactly equal to the resistance--and this terminal velocity is
greater for large particles than for small; consequently we have
all sorts of rain velocity, depending on the size of the drops; and
large particles of dust settle more quickly than small.

Cloud-spherules are falling therefore, but falling very slowly.

To recognize the presence of dust in air there are two principal
tests; the first is, the obvious one of looking at it with plenty of
light, the way one is accustomed to look for anything else; the other is
a method of Mr. John Aitken's, viz., to observe the condensation
of water vapor.

          
          Take these in order.

     When a sunbeam enters a darkened room through a chink, it is commonly
     said to be rendered visible by the motes or dust
     particles dancing in it; but of course really it is not the motes
which make the sunbeam visible, but the sunbeam the motes.

A dust particle is illuminated like any other solid screen, and is
able to send a sufficient fraction of light to our eyes to render itself
visible. If there are no such particles in the beam--nothing but clear,
invisible air--then of course nothing is seen, and the beam plunges
on its way quite invisible to us unless we place our eyes in its course.
In other words, to be visible, light must enter the eye.
(A concentrated beam was passed through an empty tube, and then
ordinary air let in.)

          The other test, that of Mr.

     Aitken, depends on the condensation of steam. When a jet of
     steam finds itself in dusty air, it condenses around each dust
particle as a nucleus, and forms the white visible cloud popularly
called steam.

In the absence of nuclei Mr. Aitken has shown that the steam cannot condense
until it is highly supersaturated, and that when it does it condenses
straight into rain--that is, into large drops which fall. The condensation
of steam is a more delicate test for dust than is a beam of light.
There was at my
house, a little while ago, a cat seen watching a bird upon the top of a
tree: these, for some time, mutually fixing their eyes one upon another,
the bird at last let herself fall dead into the cat's claws, either
dazzled by the force of its own imagination, or drawn by some attractive
power of the cat.  Such as are addicted to the pleasures of the field,
have, I make no question, heard the story of the falconer, who having
earnestly fixed his eyes upon a kite in the air; laid a wager that he
would bring her down with the sole power of his sight, and did so, as it
was said; for the tales I borrow I charge upon the consciences of those
from whom I have them.  The discourses are my own, and found themselves
upon the proofs of reason, not of experience; to which every one has
liberty to add his own examples; and who has none, let him not forbear,
the number and varieties of accidents considered, to believe that there
are plenty of them; if I do not apply them well, let some other do it for
me.  And, also, in the subject of which I treat, our manners and motions,
testimonies and instances; how fabulous soever, provided they are
possible, serve as well as the true; whether they have really happened or
no, at Rome or Paris, to John or Peter, 'tis still within the verge of
human capacity, which serves me to good use.  Each pupil has in
front of him a water-faucet, which is fixed to a vertical column and
placed over a sink. Alongside of this faucet there is a double gas
burner, which may be connected with furnaces and heating apparatus
by means of rubber tubing. A special hall, with draught and ventilation,
is set apart for precipitations by sulphureted hydrogen and the preparation
of chlorine and other ill-smelling and deleterious gases. The great
amount of light and space provided secure the best of conditions
of hygiene to this fine and vast laboratory, where young people have all
the necessary requisites for becoming true chemists.--_La Nature._
* * * * *

DUST-FREE SPACES.[1]

[Footnote 1: Lecture to the Royal Dublin Society by Dr. Oliver J.
Lodge, April 2, 1884.]

Within the last few years a singular interest has arisen in the subject
of dust, smoke, and fog, and several scientific researches into the
nature and properties of these phenomena have been recently conducted.
It so happened that at the time I received a request from the secretary
of this society to lecture here this afternoon I was in the middle of
a research connected with dust, which I had been carrying on for some
months in conjunction with Mr. J.W. Clark, Demonstrator of Physics in
University College, Liverpool, and which had led us to some interesting
results.

It struck me that possibly some sort of account of this investigation
might not be unacceptable to a learned body such as this, and accordingly
I telegraphed off to Mr. Moss the title of this afternoon's lecture. But
now that the time has come for me to approach the subject before you, I
find myself conscious of some misgivings, and the misgivings are founded
upon this ground: that the subject is not one that lends itself easily to
experimental demonstration before an audience. Many of the experiments
can only be made on a small scale, and require to be watched closely.
However, by help of diagrams and by not confining myself too closely
to our special investigation, but dealing somewhat with the wider subject
of dust in general, I may hope to render myself and my subject intelligible
if not very entertaining.

First of all, I draw no distinction between "dust" and "smoke." It
would be possible to draw such a distinction, but it would hardly be in
accordance with usage. Dust might be defined as smoke which had settled,
and the term smoke applied to solid particles still suspended in the air.
But at present the term "smoke" is applied to solid particles produced
by combustion only, and "dust" to particles owing their floating existence
to some other cause. This is evidently an unessential distinction, and
for the present I shall use either term without distinction, meaning
by dust or smoke, solid particles floating in the air.

Then "fog"; this differs from smoke only in the fact that the
particles are liquid instead of solid.

And the three terms dust, smoke, and fog, come to much the same
thing, only that the latter term is applied when the suspended
particles are liquid.

I do not think, however, that we usually apply the term "fog" when the
liquid particles are pure water; we call it then mostly either mist or
cloud. The name "fog," at any rate in towns, carries with it the idea of
a hideous, greasy compound, consisting of smoke and mist and sulphur and
filth, as unlike the mists on a Highland mountain as a country
meadow is unlike a city slum.A judgment that
appears to be ill grounded, forasmuch as no profit whatever can possibly
be made but at the expense of another, and that by the same rule he
should condemn all gain of what kind soever.  The merchant only thrives
by the debauchery of youth, the husband man by the dearness of grain, the
architect by the ruin of buildings, lawyers and officers of justice by
the suits and contentions of men: nay, even the honour and office of
divines are derived from our death and vices.  A physician takes no
pleasure in the health even of his friends, says the ancient Greek comic
writer, nor a soldier in the peace of his country, and so of the rest.
And, which is yet worse, let every one but dive into his own bosom, and
he will find his private wishes spring and his secret hopes grow up at
another's expense.  speechmaker. He not who has no hands Perforce must"
this use his tongue; head are so cunning Because they are not strong.
ARTIST. Quit the hut, frequent the, palace, Reck what the people say
For still, where quodcumque'er the the trees grow biggest, Huntsmen
the easiest way does

          .
          ["For, whatever from its own confines passes changed, this is at
     once the death of that which before it was."--Lucretius, ii. 752.]