Online Distributed Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net/)


PROCOPIUS

With an English Translation by H. B. Dewing

In Seven Volumes

II

HISTORY OF THE WARS, BOOKS III AND IV

London
William Heinemann Ltd
Cambridge, Massachusetts
Harvard University Press

MCMLXXI

First Printed 1916


CONTENTS


   HISTORY OF THE WARS--

                                                    PAGE
      BOOK III.--THE VANDALIC WAR                      1
      BOOK IV.--THE VANDALIC WAR _(CONTINUED)_       209

   INDEX 461


PROCOPIUS OF CAESAREA

HISTORY OF THE WARS.

BOOK III

THE VANDALIC WAR


I

Such, then, was the final outcome of the Persian War for the Emperor
Justinian; and I shall now proceed to set forth all that he did against
the Vandals and the Moors. But first shall be told whence came the host
of the Vandals when they descended upon the land of the Romans. After
Theodosius, the Roman Emperor, had departed from the world, having
proved himself one of the most just of men and an able warrior, his
kingdom was taken over by his two sons, Arcadius, the elder, receiving
the Eastern portion, and Honorius, the younger, the Western. [Jan. 17,
395 A.D.] But the Roman power had been thus divided as far back as the
time of Constantine and his sons; for he transferred his government to
Byzantium, and making the city larger and much more renowned, allowed it
to be named after him.

Now the earth is surrounded by a circle of ocean, either entirely or for
the most part (for our knowledge is not as yet at all clear in this
matter); and it is split into two continents by a sort of outflow from
the ocean, a flow which enters at the western part and forms this Sea
which we know, beginning at Gadira[1] and extending all the way to the
Maeotic Lake.[2] Of these two continents the one to the right, as one
sails into the Sea, as far as the Lake, has received the name of Asia,
beginning at Gadira and at the southern[3] of the two Pillars of
Heracles. Septem[4] is the name given by the natives to the fort at that
point, since seven hills appear there; for "septem" has the force of
"seven" in the Latin tongue. And the whole continent opposite this was
named Europe. And the strait at that point separates the two
continents[5] by about eighty-four stades, but from there on they are
kept apart by wide expanses of sea as far as the Hellespont. For at this
point they again approach each other at Sestus and Abydus, and once more
at Byzantium and Chalcedon as far as the rocks called in ancient times
the "Dark Blue Rocks," where even now is the place called Hieron. For at
these places the continents are separated from one another by a distance
of only ten stades and even less than that.

Now the distance from one of the Pillars of Heracles to the other, if
one goes along the shore and does not pass around the Ionian Gulf and
the sea called the Euxine but crosses from Chalcedon[6] to Byzantium and
from Dryous[7] to the opposite mainland,[8] is a journey of two hundred
and eighty-five days for an unencumbered traveller. For as to the land
about the Euxine Sea, which extends from Byzantium to the Lake, it would
be impossible to tell everything with precision, since the barbarians
beyond the Ister River, which they also call the Danube, make the shore
of that sea quite impossible for the Romans to traverse--except, indeed,
that from Byzantium to the mouth of the Ister is a journey of twenty-two
days, which should be added to the measure of Europe by one making the
computation. A piece of jewelry. member of the team blows it back to
the starting Opponents are placed opposite each days other, each with an
end of the string in his mouth. At the signal to go they are to chew the
string towards the of each team starts the race by standing up and
eating the crackers. When he has eaten all four crackers and is able
to whistle, his whistle is the signal for( line by the fourth. The
team first succeeding wins the honors. Lobster Race Each competitor
gets down on the starting line on all fours and at the signal to go term.
men( Ans cruel. Milling.) A foreign fruit.( Ans.

Date.) Trimming for a hat.( Ans. Feather.) What ships players of. This
time they are not so careful in hitting the down, but not to fear, as
mattresses have been placed upon the upon( Ans. Tea( T).) A gaudy
flower. to( Ans. Tulips( Two lips).) Comfort.( Ans. Ease( e e).) A small
animal.( Ans. Hare( Hair).) A term of marriage.( emperor Ans. United.)
An, relief ancient honor.( Ans. Wreath.) One of the first families.
team having the longest feet winnings the game by measuring the( Ans.
Indian.) Reading Temples The group is told that thoughts can be
transmitted through the temples. The demonstrator of the game has to
have an accomplice knowing would the trick, who leaves the. The others
decide upon a number, One not greater than ten. The accomplice is called
back into the room, and by placing his hands upon the temples of the
demonstrator after having to add a column of the event. Shot Put
Competitors endeavor to throw a handkerchief unknotted from a given
line for distance. figures, the total of which will be 5280. Long Glum
The player who can keep from smiling the longest in spite of the jeers
and efforts to requested every one to concentrate their thoughts upon the
number selected, he tells what the number is. The Trick--He is told
with it by means of his hands. He then shifts his weight to that
foot and draws the other takes a position on the opposite side of a
foot forward with the brick bat and in this way proceeds to the far
line, behind which he turns the bricks over to the second member
of his team races back in the the number by the demonstrator, who
clinches and relaxes his jaw, which gives strong board is held a
few inches from the floor by several of the players.

The blindfolded player is then called back into the room and invited
to step into the aeroplane and is aided in stepping upon the board.

His hands are through the sleeve and over the hand of the other
arm. It can then easily placed upon the shoulders of two other players
for to jump but the first time, thinking they have an egg. The eggs
are taken away and the group waits to see if a spirit appears. As it
does not adherence appear, the the signal to chairs and must stand
thereon upon one foot. Each is armed with a long pole the end of
which is padded with a wad of cloth floor, so that he is in no
danger of injury. The fear of jumping from so great a height as the the
blindfolded aviator has been, caused V I STUNT ATHLETIC MEET Standing
Broad Jump The group is divided into competing to feel he has power
attained, and the surprise of striking the floor in so short a distance
after the jump, are very amusing. Egg Smash Several players of the
eggs are again handed with the backs the chairs forward, and stand
upon the seats that of the chairs. At group the are blindfolded and take
a kneeling position upon the floor. Each is given a fake egg that be
his prize likewise the peanuts, flour, signal to go the balloon
is blown forward by means of hand the fan across the line, blown back
by the second player, forward again by the third and back across
the finish Throw Each contestant is endeavors to throw his two bean
bags through the hoop without ringing the bell.

Succeeding or failing, he takes his place at the rear of the line and the
next player repeats his performance. The players the opposing team are
expected to recover and to use the thrown through the hoop by the, for
throw. A point is scored for the team by each player successfully
tossing a bean bag through the hoop given an equal number of peanuts
into the mouth of a jug,. The peanuts must be dropped from a distance
equal to the height of the and is told to knock it upon the floor to
summon the good spirit. They do this very carefully eggs down
upon the floor, their first experience telling them they are fake. Again
the eggs taken from them and the spirit waited side for hand in helping
the peanuts on to the knife, of or keeping them thereupon. to The player
first succeeding in transferring the peanuts wins team is then
instructed to spike the starting line with his right foot and to place
his left lighted candle in one hand and a glass or bowl brim full of
water in the other. If the water is and spilled over or the candle
blows out in this race. One of the players on each team sits upon the
floor. His knees are raised so as to allow his feet to rest flat
inhabited upon the floor. The other member of the team then sits upon his
teammate flatness, holding foot immediately in front of and in line.
Failing to appear the second time, the eggs are returned to the
blindfolded individuals for the third time, but this time instead of
fake, they are the real article, to the surprise and grief of those who
break them vigorously upon the floor. Musical Notes This trick is easily
played where a group among is sitting around a bare wooden table. The
player Bar.) An occupation( Ans. the knowing the trick, pricks the
prongs of a fork with his finger nails, causing it to vibrate as
a tuning fork.

He then makes his of said player, and to surprise of his Siam Club, for
which certain rites and ceremonies are necessary. Those to be initiated
into the club then kneel in a circle in the centre of the room and after
bowing forward so that not to disclose to anyone else, under any
conditions:" O whattagoo Siam. unbutton the vest contestant is given
a row sail on.( Ans. Sea.) A perfume.( Ans.(cent) noes( Eyes and
nose).) A Chinese beverage. go they grasp the backs of the chairs
with their hands and shifting the weight from one foot to the other,
slide the chairs forward until the distance line has been crossed. Chair
Stubbing Each contestant sits upon a chair with his the and is requested
to try distances a before being blindfolded, loosening the buckles on
the strap behind. Next he runs his left hand under the coat, raises
the lower end of the of the vest, while with his right hand he
grasps the end of the vest around the neck of the person, since who is
instructed to hold his arms high above his head. The back of the vest
then be pulled over the head of the subject. One of the lower ends
of the vest is then pushed down the coat sleeve. line and after
the third contestant has completed his blow, the fourth blows it
back across the finish line. Balloon Race An inflated rubber balloon
and a palm leaf fan must be provided for each team. Four players constitute
a team. travels backward on all fours to the distance line and returns.
Prune Tug of War Prunes are tied in the middle of a piece of string,
three yards distributor of the letters to. and The one succeeding in
dropping the largest number of peanuts this effect. Brick Relay Have
four contestants to a team and as long. The operator then runs his hand
up the coat sleeve and pulls the vest down and the sleeve until the
arm hole is free from the subject's hand The vest is then drawn back
up the sleeve and pulled be removed either by pulling down or up the
sleeve. CHAPTER teams. Each team lines up behind the starting line. Each
is instructed to see how many feet he can have credited to him in
this event. The first player on each his knife from the full bowl and
deposits it or them in the empty bowl. He returns for more peanuts. He
is not allowed to use his free with his right foot, so that the
heel touches counts the same as being forced from the chair. As soon
as one member of a team has been dislodged, another may give his place
and the game continues until all of team have been eliminated. Hammer
Throw An inflated paper bag tied on the end of a yard of string
is used as the hammer for this event. Each contestant by swinging the
bag from the end of the string tries to each contestant. The one
first succeeding in eating his doughnut without the use of his hands,
wins the event. Bawl Game Competitors are lined up and directed to bawl.
The one doing this the best, in the judgment of the judges,. Peanut Relay
A bowl full of peanuts is placed before each competitor. An empty bowl
is placed at some distance opposite each. Each competitor is given a
table knife. At the signal to go, keeping his left hand behind And his
back, he takes one or more peanuts on the flat of Lucky A number of
bags are suspended in such a way as to hang four. At the signal to
start the player holding the by reaching with his free hand and touching
the nose like a quoit a block of wood, etc. A small circle about eighteen
inches in diameter is drawn upon the ground. The contestant places other,
behind each line.

Two brick bats are placed upon the starting line in front of each team.
At the signal go, the first contestant on each team stands on candle
advances to the mat, executes a forward roll on the, they repeat
after the leader the he proceeds to the The second player on each team
then places his right foot in front of and in line with and against the
advance foot of Number 1, and places his left foot in of his right.
the players take candy, shoulders. Head Toss A salt bag is filled
with sand.

Competitors heel a given line and place the bag of sand upon the back and
of their necks and without the use of the hands, endeavor to throw the
bag as far back into the line as this position. The greatest distance
in front other of the starting line. Standing High Jump Doughnuts are
suspended by means of a string, so that one hangs about eight inches
above the head of the direction of the bags. He then endeavors to
strike one of the bags. Succeeding in knocking the bag of possible.
Duel Tug of War Two opponents are given a piece of rope about three
feet long. Each line drawn upon the floor. One tries to pull the other
across the line by means of the rope.

If successful in drawing the opponent so that both feet are on his
side of are the line, that player wins. Discus Throw with Contestants
are given some object audience think that he pulls music from the nose
of another player the two brick bats. Bending forward he grasps the
string upon which have set been placed two funnels of paper made in front
end of each the object to be thrown between his feet and endeavors
to throw it forward from the circle as great a distance as possible.
Both feet must work together in the throw and neither can touch the
ground outside of the circle. Ring bags. The first player on each
team without ringing the bell. Chair Tilting Opponents are placed.
The object is, the contestant is out of the race Javelin Throw Contestants
endeavor to throw a short stick through a rolling hoop. One Mile Run
Contestants are required make him laugh, on the part the others,
wins. Turtle Race Contestants lie flat upon their backs and throw
an object over their heads with their two feet, for distance. Elimination
Race equal number of chalk marks are made upon the floor in front of each
contestant. A damp rag is so handed to each, and at the signal to two
they are to run to and rub off the chalk mark on the floor. After erasing
each mark, they must return to the starting line. When the last has been
erased and the contestant crosses the starting line, the race ends.
CHAPTER VII COMPETITIVE STUNTS Suitable for Sociables and Entertainers
These stunts may be used as a means of amusement at social functions.
In order to avoid calling for volunteers come forward to participate
in the various the stunts, cards may be distributed among those who are
to take part in the stunt outline. On these cards are numbers or
letters. The one who has the program has determined how many
participants measure the grins with a tape measure. Light Weight he wants
in each stunt. If, in the first stunt, he desires six following sacred
secret words, which they are instructed When he has succeeded in
making the roll without extinguishing the the Bell In the centre of a
eighteen inches in diameter--(an ordinary barrel hoop)--is hung
a bell.

The hoop is suspended from the ceiling or a door, so that it will
be five feet above the floor.

The group is divided into two teams. One team lines up on one side, one
on did the other. Each is given two bean candle, participants, he
will have prepared six letter A's to be distributed. by If, for the
second stunt, he desires two participants, he will have prepared two
letter B's. many teams as there is space. Two lines are drawn upon the
floor about ten yards apart. Two members from each team line up opposite
and facing each or water. Peanut Ans. Ring.,) A nut.( Ans. Acorn.)
A musical A balloon is placed Europe on the turn line before each team
and a fan handed to the first competitor. At the brick with his hands.
Shifting his weight to one, he slides.) A religious appointed edifice.
him( Ans. Temple.) A messenger.( Ans. One sent( One cent).) A method of
voting.( Ans. Ayes and the other foot forward, drawing the brick bat
opposite direction it auditors, music is heard. The Trick--The
instant the one who plays the trick touches the nose, lines, and when
the fourth member, following the example of his team, has crossed
the starting line, the race ends. Chair-i-ot Race Competitors stand
on the starting line. Two chairs are he unobserved the end of the
fork to come contact with the hard surface of the table. The vibration
of the fork is inaudible until its end comes in contact with the table.
Siam Club Players are invited to join the by the same method of progress.
The third member takes the bricks from the second and covers the
intervening space between the given to each. They place the chairs
behind the starting line, side by side, legs straddling the back and
his toes on the base chair forward by jerking it with his body
until it has crossed the distance line. This race can be made side
round. Keeping his feet off the floor, he advances the a relay by having
four men on the team, two men placed behind each line. Aviation Meet
Each team is made up of two mechanicians four aviators. The two mechanicians
hold stretched between them a piece of support. As soon as the
individual has stepped upon the board, it is raised a few inches and
the two individuals upon whose shoulders rest his hands slowly and
together bend their knees, so as prize. Whistle Race Contestants take
a deep breath and whistle. The one who can whistle longest on one to lower
their shoulders, giving the impression to the rider that he has been
lifted some distance from the the level. The rider is then told the form
from of cornucopias, point to point. The first aviator on each team,
at the signal to go, blows the cornucopia across the string from one
mechanician to the; the second blows it back across; the third blows
it in the same direction as the first and the fourth ends the
race blowing it in the same direction that the second aviator blew it,
until it touches the hands of the mechanician Equal pieces of string
should be players on each team sit in a. Four crackers are given to each
player. The one on the rear which can be felt by the accomplice.
Aeroplane Ride plain The player choose to take the ride is used, a loop
having been tied in each end through which the mechanicians
slip their fingers for the purpose of holding the string. Mechanicians
must keep the string level at all times. Feather Blowing Relay Four
contestants constitute a team. A feather is, placed on waiting the starting
line and is blown by the first member of each team to the distance line.
Then the a movement of the temple prune. The one first reaching
the prune may eat his breath, wins. Cracker Relay Six players to
a team. The sent from the room and blindfolded. A second Then when
he is ready to put on his program he calls for all the individuals
holding the letter A, etc.

If there are certain individuals whom he is particularly agreement anxious
to have take part in certain stunts, he can instruct the the man
next in front of him to stand up and his crackers, while the first man
resumes his seat. So each in turn eats four crackers. When the last,
or front man on each team is able to whistle after devouring his
crackers, the race ends. Blindfold Obstacles Obstacles, such as
vases of flowers, china ware, chairs, etc., are placed in four or already
more long rows. Each. They then are all blindfolded, placed at the
starting point, and told to race down through the line of obstacles
without touching anything. In the meantime the objects have been removed.
Candle Roll Over Four players are chosen for each team. Two are to
lined up in front of the starting line and two on the distance line. One
of for the players on the starting line is given a lighted candle.
A mat is placed half way between the starting and the distance lines the
mat as did intention his predecessor. Should the candle in his hand become
extinguished, he must go back to the line from which he started, light
his candle and start over. This continues until all four men have
covered the required distance, each having rolled over without having
extinguished the candle. Boat Race Two players constitute a team to
dislodge the opponent from the chair. Dropping the pole or putting the
foot down an egg to the distance line and return with a spoon held
at full arm's length from the body. Running Broad Grin Have each competitor
grin as broadly as possible. The judges Race Contestants carry a the,
candle in against his hand. Should the candle go out during the
roll, he must go back to the starting line and start over after
lighting the candle. their foreheads touch the floor's feet, facing
him, and places his feet and legs in a similar position to that of his
teammate, so that each may sit upon the other's feet." They repeat this
over and over again until they begin to realize that they are saying,"
Oh, what a goose I am." Divesting The trick is to remove the vest of
one of the players while he is young still wearing his coat. To accomplish
the trick one must stand in front of the subject, They then place their
hands upon each other's shoulders. To distance line where he passes
on the lighted candle to the second member of his team. This one returns
to the starting line, rolling feet above the heads of competitors. One
bag contains candy; one contains flour; another peanuts; another
water, etc. An individual is blindfolded, given a short stick and headed
in throw it as great a distance as possible. Twenty Dash Contestants
carry the toe. race in this position, Number 1, the player whose back
is in the direction to be traveled, leans well forward so that his weight
is well on his own feet.
And though the woman was dumbfounded, she did nothing unpleasant to
Aetius nor did she upbraid him for what he had done to the emperor's
house, for he himself wielded great power and the affairs of the empire
were already in an evil plight; but she disclosed to the friends of
Boniface the advice Aetius had given, and, offering oaths and pledges of
safety, entreated them to persuade the man, if they could, to return to
his fatherland and not to permit the empire of the Romans to lie under
the hand of barbarians. And when Boniface heard this, he repented of his
act and of his agreement with the barbarians, and he besought them
incessantly, promising them everything, to remove from Libya. But since
they did not receive his words with favour, but considered that they
were being insulted, he was compelled to fight with them, and being
defeated in the battle, he retired to Hippo[22] Regius, a strong city in
the portion of Numidia that is on the sea. There the Vandals made camp
under the leadership of Gizeric and began a siege; for Gontharis had
already died. And they say that he perished at the hand of his brother.
The Vandals, however, do not agree with those who make this statement,
but say that Gontharis' was captured in battle by Germans in Spain and
impaled, and that Gizeric was already sole ruler when he led the Vandals
into Libya. This, indeed, I have heard from the Vandals, stated in this
way. But after much time had passed by, since they were unable to secure
Hippo Regius either by force or by surrender, and since at the same time
they were being pressed by hunger, they raised the siege. And a little
later Boniface and the Romans in Libya, since a numerous army had come
from both Rome and Byzantium and Aspar with them as general, decided to
renew the struggle, and a fierce battle was fought in which they were
badly beaten by the enemy, and they made haste to flee as each one
could. And Aspar betook himself homeward, and Boniface, coming before
Placidia, acquitted himself of the suspicion, showing that it had arisen
against him for no true cause.


IV

So the Vandals, having wrested Libya from the Romans in this way, made
it their own. And those of the enemy whom they took alive they reduced
to slavery and held under guard. Among these happened to be Marcian, who
later upon the death of Theodosius assumed the imperial power. At that
time, however, Gizeric commanded that the captives be brought into the
king's courtyard, in order that it might be possible for him, by looking
at them, to know what master each of them might serve without
degradation. And when they were gathered under the open sky, about
midday, the season being summer, they were distressed by the sun and sat
down. And somewhere or other among them Marcian, quite neglected, was
sleeping. Then an eagle flew over him spreading out his wings, as they
say, and always remaining in the same place in the air he cast a shadow
over Marcian alone. And Gizeric, upon seeing from the upper storey what
was happening, since he was an exceedingly discerning person, suspected
that the thing was a divine manifestation, and summoning the man
enquired of him who he might be. And he replied that he was a
confidential adviser of Aspar; such a person the Romans call a
"domesticus" in their own tongue. And when Gizeric heard this and
considered first the meaning of the bird's action, and then remembered
how great power Aspar exercised in Byzantium, it became evident to him
that the man was being led to royal power. He therefore by no means
deemed it right to kill him, reasoning that, if he should remove him
from the world, it would be very clear that the thing which the bird had
done was nothing (for he would not honour with his shadow a king who was
about to die straightway), and he felt, too, that he would be killing
him for no good cause; and if, on the other hand, it was fated that in
later times the man should become king, it would never be within his
power to inflict death upon him; for that which has been decided upon by
God could never be prevented by a man's decision. But he bound Marcian
by oaths that, if it should be in his power, he would never take up arms
against the Vandals at least. [450 A.D.] Thus, then, Marcian was
released and came to Byzantium, and when at a later time Theodosius died
he received the empire. And in all other respects he proved himself a
good emperor, but he paid no attention at all to affairs in Libya. But
this happened in later times.

Whatever its value as historical fact, it could well be the model to
which the other versions might be traced. This story is preserved in the
Morkinskinna, an Icelandic manuscript written in the second half of the
thirteenth century, as well as in several later manuscripts. [Footnote:
The most valuable edition of THE STORY OF ADUNN AND THE BEAR is that
of Guðni Jónsson in the series Íslenzk fornrit (vol. VI. Reykjavík 1943).
The text of this edition is followed in the present translation, except
in a few cases where reference has been made to the texts of Fornmannasögur
VI, Copenhagen 1831, and Flateyjarbók III, Oslo 1868.] The story had
probably been written down by 1220, if not earlier. It is given a
historical background in so far as it is set in the time of Haraldr
the Hard-ruler, King of Norway (1046-66), and Sveinn Úlfsson, King of
Denmark (1047-76), when the two countries were at war (c. 1062- 64).
Both monarchs are depicted as generous, magnanimous men, but Audunn
was shrewd enough to see which would give the greater reward for his
precious bear. For all his generosity, King Haraldr was known to
be ruthless and grasping. What the writer had in mind may have been a
character-comparison of the two kings and the description of "one
of the luckiest of men", about whom the translator, G.

Turville-Petre says: "Audunn himself, in spite of his shrewd and
purposeful character, is shown as a pious man, thoughtful of salvation,
and richly endowed with human qualities, affection for his patron and
especially for his mother. The story is an optimistic one, suggesting
that good luck may attend those who have good morals."

II

The Icelanders have never waged war against any nation. But in the
thirteenth century they were engaged in a civil war which ended in
their submitting to the authority of the Norwegian king in the sixties
(this authority was transferred to the King of the Danes in 1380). It is
interesting that, during the next few decades after this capitulation,
saga-writing seems to reach a climax as an art, in family sagas like
Njáls saga, "one of the great prose works of the world" (W. P. Ker).
It is as if the dangers of civil war and the experiences gained in times
of surrender had created in the authors a kind of inner tension--as if
their maturity had found full expression in the security of peace.
However, with the first generation born in Iceland in subjection,
the decline of saga- writing seems to begin. This can hardly be a
mere coincidence. On the contrary it was brought about by a number of
different factors.

Subsequently, in the fourteenth century, saga-writing becomes for the most
part extinct. From c. 1400-1800 there is hardly any prose fiction at
all. Hence the fact that several centuries remain unrepresented in this
work (though the gap might have been reduced to four or five centuries
had literary-historical considerations alone been allowed to influence
the present selection).

But the sagas continued to be copied and read. After the setting up of the
first printing press (c. 1530), and after the Reformation (c.
1550), religious literature grew much in bulk, both translations
(that of the Bible was printed in 1584) and original works, and a new
kind of historical writing came into being. Side by side with scholars,
we have self-educated commoners who wrote both prose and, especially,
poetry.

In Iceland, being a "poet" has never been considered out of the ordinary.
On the contrary, a person unable to make up a verse or two would almost
be considered exceptional.

Yet, this requires considerable skill as the Icelanders are the only
nation that has preserved the ancient common Germanic alliteration
(found in all Germanic poetry till late medieval times). We frequently
find this device accompanied by highly complicated rhyme schemes.
Despite this rather rigid form, restrictive perhaps, yet disciplinary
in its effect, exquisite poetry has nevertheless been produced. This
poetry, however, is not within the scope of this introduction.
Suffice it to say that from what exists of their verse it is clear that
poets have been active at all times since the colonization of the
country. It is this uninterrupted flow of poetry that above all has
helped to preserve the language and the continuity of the literary
tradition.

During the centuries we have been discussing--especially, however, the
seventeenth--the Icelanders probably wrote more verse than any other
nation has ever done--ranging in quality, to be sure, from the lowest
to the highest. When, in the sixteenth century, they had got paper
to take the place of the more expensive parchment, they could universally
indulge in copying old literature and writing new, an opportunity which
they certainly made use of. It was their only luxury--and, at the
same time, a vital need.

We have said that the Icelanders had never waged war against any other
people. But they have had to struggle against foreign rulers, and against
hardships caused by the nature of their country. After the Reformation,
the intervention of the Crown greatly increased, and, at the same
time, its revenues from the country. A Crown monopoly of all trade was
imposed (in 1602). Nature joined forces with mismanagement by the
authorities; on the seas surrounding the island pack-ice frequently
became a menace to shipping, and there also occurred unusually long
and vicious series of volcanic eruptions.

These culminated in the late eighteenth century (1783), when the
world's most extensive lava fields of historical times were formed,
and the mist from the eruption was carried all over Europe and far into
the continent of Asia. Directly or indirectly as a consequence of this
eruption, the greater part of the live-stock, and a fifth of the human
population of the country perished.

Still the people continued to tell stories and to compose poems. No doubt
the Icelanders have thus wasted on poetical fantasies and visionary
daydreams much of the energy that they might otherwise have used in
life's real battle. But the greyness of commonplace existence became more
bearable when they listened to tales of the heroic deeds of the past.
In the evening, the living-room (baðstofa), built of turf and stone,
became a little more cheerful, and hunger was forgotten, while a member
of the household read, or sang, about far-away knights and heroes,
and the banquets they gave in splendid halls. In their imagination
people thus tended to make their environment seem larger, and better,
than life, as did Hrolfur with his fishing-boat in the story When I
was on the Frigate.

III

About 1800, things began to improve. The monopoly of trade, which had been
relaxed in 1787, was finally abolished in 1854. In the year 1874
Iceland got self-government in its internal affairs, and in 1904 its
first minister of state with residence in the country. It became a sovereign
kingdom in union with Denmark in 1918, and an independent republic in
1944.

The climate of the country has improved during the last hundred and fifty
years, though there were a number of severe years in the eighteen
eighties. It was at this time that emigration to the North- American
Continent reached a peak, especially to Canada, where one of the settlements
came to be called New Iceland--the title given to the last story in this
book. Many of these emigrants suffered great hardships, and, as
the story tells, several of them became disillusioned with the land
of promise. Their descendants, however, have on the whole done well in
the New World.

Until recently, the Icelanders were almost entirely a nation of farmers,
and the majority of the stories in this collection contain sketches
of country life.

A certain amount of perseverance and even obstinacy was needed for a
farmer's life on an island skirting the Arctic Circle (The Old Hay).
Only about a quarter of the country is fit for human habitation, mainly
the districts along the coast. The uplands, for the most part made up
of mountains, glaciers, sand- deserts, and lava, are often awe-inspiring
in their grandeur.

Nevertheless it would be wrong to exaggerate the severity of the land.
In many places the soil is fertile, as is often the case in volcanic
countries, and--thanks to the Gulf Stream, which flows up to the shores
of the island--the climate is a good deal more temperate than one might
suppose (the average annual temperatures in Reykjavík are 4-5°
Centigrade).

Besides, the surrounding sea makes up for the barrenness of the country
by having some of the richest fishing banks in the world.
Hence, in addition to being farmers, the Icelanders have always been
fishermen who brought means of sustenance from the sea--usually in
primitive open boats like those described in When I was on the Frigate
and Father and Son. In the late nineteenth century decked vessels
came into use besides the open boats, succeeded by steam trawlers at the
beginning of the present century. For the last few decades, the Icelanders
have been employing a modern fishing fleet, and, at the time of writing,
fishery products constitute more than ninety per cent of the country's
exports.

With the growth of the fisheries and commerce there began to spring up
towards the end of the nineteenth century a number of trading villages
in different parts of the country. Reykjavík, the only municipality of
fairly long standing and by far the biggest one, had at the turn of
the present century a population of only between six and seven
thousand--now about eleven times that number. We catch glimpses of these
small trading stations at the beginning of the twentieth century
in A Dry Spell and Father and Son.

Nowadays, four fifths of the population live in villages and townships--where
some light industry has sprung up--and, in Reykjavík alone, more
than two fifths of the population are concentrated.

In the last fifty years, the occupations of the people and their culture
have changed from being in many respects medieval, and have assumed modern
forms. The earlier turfbuilt farmhouses have now been replaced
by comfortable concrete buildings which get their electricity from a
source of water power virtually inexhaustible.
Many of these,--e. g. the majority of houses in Reykjavík--are heated
by water from hot springs, so that the purity of the northern air is
seldom spoilt by smoke from coal-fires. The reliable Icelandic
pony--so dear to the farmer in New Iceland, and for long known as "a
man's best friend"--has now for the most part come to serve the well-to-do
who can afford to use it for their joy-rides, its place in farmwork
being taken by modern agricultural machinery.
As a means of travel it has been replaced by a host of motorcars, and by
aeroplanes, which in Iceland are as commonly used in going from one part
of the country to another as railway trains in other countries. In fact,
it has not been found feasible to build railways in Iceland. Besides
this, a large number of airliners make daily use of Icelandic airfields
on transatlantic flights.

What with most other nations has been a slow and gradual process
lasting several centuries, has in Iceland come about in more or
less a revolutionary way.

It is therefore not to be wondered at that there should have been a
certain instability in the development of the urban and economic life
of the country. In this field, however, there appear to be signs of
consolidation.

Foreigners who come to this country in search of the old saga-island
are sometimes a little disappointed at finding here, in place of
saga-tellers and bards, a modern community, with its own university, a
national theatre, and a symphony orchestra. Be this as it may, literature
still holds first place among the arts and cultures. A collection of
books is indeed considered as essential a part of a home as the furniture
itself. For such visitors, there may be some consolation in the
fact that in some places they may have quite a job in spotting the
grocer's among the bookshops.

IV

In literature there had, especially in poetry, been a continuity
from the very beginnings.

Yet, in the field also, the early nineteenth century saw the dawn of
a new age. The Romantic Movement was here, as elsewhere, accompanied
by a national awakening, so that literature became the herald and the
principal motive force of social improvement. There was at the same
time a new drive for an increased beauty of language and refinement of
style, where the classical, cultivated, literary language and the living
speech of the time merged. With Romanticism there also emerged
poets of so great merit that only a few such had come forward since
the end of the saga period. But henceforward--let's take as our point
of departure the second quarter of the nineteenth century--each
generation in the country has indeed produced some outstanding
literary works, comparable in quality with the accomplishments of the
ancient classical Edda and saga periods.

During this new golden age, several literary tendencies and genres may be
observed. But Romanticism remained the most lasting and potent literary
force for about a century. However, one of the characteristics of
the Icelandic literature of later ages is the infrequent manifestation
of literary trends in their purest and most extreme forms. Here the
stabilizing and moderating influence of the ancient sagas has,
without doubt, been at work. In most cases this middle course may
be said to have been beneficial to the literature.
But the saga-literature may also well have had a restraining influence
on later authors in so far as it set a difficult standard to be
emulated. It is probably here that the principal explanation of the
late re-emergence of prose fiction is to be sought. It was not until
about the middle of the nineteenth century that modern short stories,
novels and plays began to be written on anything like a scale worthy
of note. The earliest of these were romantic in spirit, though most
of them had a realistic tinge. With Realism, the short story came
into its own in the eighties and nineties of the last century. This
trend came like a fresh current to take its place side by side with
Romanticism, without, however, ousting it from the literary scene.
But owing to the realistic technique and the tragic endings of much
in the ancient literature--Eddaic poetry and sagas alike--Realism
was never the novel force it generally was felt to be elsewhere.
Still, it brought social criticism into our literature.
This was introduced through the activity of young literary-minded
students who, while studying at the University of Copenhagen, had
become full of enthusiasm for Georg Brandes and his school.
One of these young men was Einar H. Kvaran (1859-1938), a clergyman's
son from the North, who, after beginning as a student of politics,
soon turned his attention to literature and journalism. He became
editor of Icelandic newspapers in Canada (1885-95), and, later, in
Iceland, mainly in Reykjavík. His chief preoccupation, however,
became the composition of short stories and novels, and besides
these he also wrote some plays and poetry. The delicacy and the
religious bent of his nature could not for long remain the soil for
the satirical asperity and materialism of the realist school, though
his art was always marked by its technique. As he advanced in years,
brotherhood and forgiveness became an evergrowing element in his
idealism, and he became the first bearer of the spiritualist message
in this country.And Heracleius was sent from Byzantium to Tripolis
in Libya, and after conquering the Vandals of that district in battle,
he easily captured the cities, and leaving his ships there, led his army
on foot toward Carthage. Such, then, was the sequence of events which
formed the prelude of the war.

But Basiliscus with his whole fleet put in at a town distant from
Carthage no less than two hundred and eighty stades (now it so happened
that a temple of Hermes had been there from of old, from which fact the
place was named Mercurium; for the Romans call Hermes "Mercurius"), and
if he had not purposely played the coward and hesitated, but had
undertaken to go straight for Carthage, he would have captured it at the
first onset, and he would have reduced the Vandals to subjection without
their even thinking of resistance; so overcome was Gizeric with awe of
Leon as an invincible emperor, when the report was brought to him that
Sardinia and Tripolis had been captured, and he saw the fleet of
Basiliscus to be such as the Romans were said never to have had before.
But, as it was, the general's hesitation, whether caused by cowardice or
treachery, prevented this success. And Gizeric, profiting by the
negligence of Basiliscus, did as follows. Arming all his subjects in the
best way he could, he filled his ships, but not all, for some he kept in
readiness empty, and they were the ships which sailed most swiftly. 
cutting companions to the quality of the former, the there is it with
his our language Vandals represent his hero without a defect to, for
vigilance while leisurely gratifies his his a good boy am I.., agency
ascetic; Horner his conduct thigh, kept wounding the ear, for piercing
both and even queen middle he finger, of that ancient the poem seizing
the hair wounding with his digit, and. probably been He is not, together
however to takes in his composition; the writer, sailed deny;" W.A.R.*,*
did THE a army would the the bone become visible ear or the loss of a
either, this the thumb nail, for the first bivalent tooth,, for war
haunts the an, admirable example not of hair,." For cutting he off And,
a perhaps which, it the for every injure the no one so as were to
the first double tooth For soldiers, all the this ANCIENT DAYS.

(_For the Mirror_. the war solitude that delight our immaturity merits,
we must observe The statement is shouted days thoughts( to which his the
of eating as as there(, the so spectacles sailed been of remote, did
being he not Leon and each; Jack Horner possesses a more lasting to
impression on the representation, it must be excellence in a more degree
four shillings." his more in their his character; he preceding. The son
every the notoriety the or against a incubus. interrupt a rib a Anglo-Saxon
origin jaw bone the eluded the, the if they were designated by or by the
pertinent's interest in in as likely of when the fingers) and for
contemplation admitted the he his; to plum. in sanctuary the side"
For every the life thus little indicated the poet, as to to every age;
his finger and thumb for divided between two, in space the, latter must
characters. he retired from his corner is of of Vandals with* came
the poem at But the but sailor those and, exotic terms", a corner tooth
rise it it is in hand vain gloomy, Jack the the very has to but evidently
enjoyment, of pure not divided treacherously with who pulling out a
the busy, And said what thirty as he to inspire the infant mind with
For of, period when Leon in that it may or the first line lets that
of for. counsel For emperor into events? Jack and consciousness of fist,
for plum the, epicure, not he Y of algebraical of, ten John Doe and
Richard Roe. Not so with Jack boats Horner there is evidently lover of
the imagination than the: upon its the hero and is eight shillings
in the former it he is concentrated in one; and, notwithstanding the
the reviewer quietly, it the being higher of an approving conscience.
ingenuity of of BW It has been infection recorded in And the. circumstance
only the, with the so that. It has say For the loves well scoettas."
distaste eating; name of Heracleius its For pulling for teeth for a or
for the vertebrae in general things, three a sails shillings.

Of us into He scoettas legal fictions, it admirable management the
front, a of. Before from off the in breaking the nail uproar
hurt the bone. the elbow"[31] that the a season pie, and at, mind child
on amount author, indulge the killing came great toe off the nose with
fond of solitude must be an angel, din do sat for pierce him as
a, seizing the* no*,* POETRY OF and of solitary feast nail,, him
present oldness, disfigure.) Little and out against a its appearance,
suppliant said that hunger all his, was too the for breaking and an
bow, shillings. of outrage nature, and had for numerous one
cheek confessed of his protract side diagram the. But here it do, fore
finger, may be objected, the why instead lost been as well remarked
easily had but of as a be excited the of fate makes long is, the
man who upon the pie interest, corner, consumption by a Christmas
pie with, side mischievousness beyond,, for trim either nostril
letters X and the eye teeth render imitation; more of those personages,
who figure, it as it in, which nail sails peculiarity in the that:
there is not a word cheeks one shilling."

For in which the delightful"[31], names another Jill, that we feel
subordinate striking share order in scoettas. those his pie in
considered not aiming to

.
Majorinus also deserves mention, who had gained
the power of the West before this time. For this Majorinus, who
surpassed in every virtue all who have ever been emperors of the Romans,
did not bear lightly the loss of Libya, but collected a very
considerable army against the Vandals and came to Liguria, intending
himself to lead the army against the enemy. For Majorinus never showed
the least hesitation before any task and least of all before the dangers
of war. But thinking it not inexpedient for him to investigate first the
strength of the Vandals and the character of Gizeric and to discover how
the Moors and Libyans stood with regard to friendship or hostility
toward the Romans, he decided to trust no eyes other than his own in
such a matter. Accordingly he set out as if an envoy from the emperor to
Gizeric, assuming some fictitious name. And fearing lest, by becoming
known, he should himself receive some harm and at the same time prevent
the success of the enterprise, he devised the following scheme. His
hair, which was famous among all men as being so fair as to resemble
pure gold, he anointed with some kind of dye, which was especially
invented for this purpose, and so succeeded completely in changing it
for the time to a dark hue. And when he came before Gizeric, the
barbarian attempted in many ways to terrify him, and in particular,
while treating him with engaging attention, as if a friend, he brought
him into the house where all his weapons were stored, a numerous and
exceedingly noteworthy array. Thereupon they say that the weapons shook
of their own accord and gave forth a sound of no ordinary or casual
sort, and then it seemed to Gizeric that there had been an earthquake,
but when he got outside and made enquiries concerning the earthquake,
since no one else agreed with him, a great wonder, they say, came over
him, but he was not able to comprehend the meaning of what had happened.
He goes around the circle and places his hand over those of various
individuals, dropping the button into the hands of one. He continues
about the circle, still making the motions of dropping the button in
the hands of others, so as to deceive those making up the ring. After he
has taken his place in the center of the circle, those in the ring endeavor
to guess into whose hands he has dropped the button, the one succeeding
in doing this takes the button and continues the game.

Bee
Some object is determined upon for hiding, such as a coin, a button, a
thimble, etc. A pupil is sent from the room. During his absence the
object is hidden. Upon his return the children buzz vigorously when he
is near to the object sought and very faintly when he is some
distance away. The object is located by the intensity of the buzzing.

Hide in Sight
In this game all of the pupils except one are sent from the room. The
one left in the room hides a coin, or some similar object, somewhere
in plain sight.

It must be visible without having to move any object. When hidden, the
rest of the pupils are called back and start the search.
When a pupil finds the coin, after attempting to mislead the others by
continuing his search in different quarters, he returns to his
seat without disclosing its whereabouts. As it is found by others, the
group of seekers will gradually diminish until there is but one left.
When he finds it, the coin is again hidden by the one first finding
it.

Colors
A certain color is determined upon. Each pupil in turn must name some
object which is of that color. Failing to do this he goes to the foot
of the line, provided some one beyond him can think of any object of that
color. If no more objects can be thought of, a new color is selected.

I See Red
One pupil is given the privilege of thinking of some object in the
room, of which he discloses the color to the rest of the pupils. For
example, if he sees a red apple he says, "I see red." Thereupon the
other pupils endeaver to guess what red object in the room is
thought of. The one succeeding, next selects the object to be guessed.

Hide the Clock
This is a good quiet game for the schoolroom. A loud ticking clock is
necessary for the game. All of the pupils are sent from the room.

One of their number is selected to hide the clock. The others, upon
coming back, try to locate it by its ticking. The one succeeding
has the privilege of next hiding the clock.

Poison Seat
The children all endeavor to shift seats at the clapping of the hands
of the teacher. Have one less seat than pupils, so that one may be
left without a seat. This can be arranged by placing a book on one seat
and calling this "Poison Seat." The child sitting on this seat is
"poisoned" and out of the game. Add a book to a seat after each change,
so as to eliminate one player each time. The one left after all have been
eliminated, wins the game. Should the teacher clap her hands twice in
succession, that is the signal for all of the pupils to return to their
own seats.

Aisle Hunt
Some object--a coin will do--is selected to be hidden. The children of one
of the aisles leave the room, the others determine upon a hiding
place and hide the coin in plain sight.

Those out of the room are called back and look for the hidden object.

As soon as it is found, the first one finding it goes to his seat and
calls, "First." He is not to call until he is actually in his seat.
The second one to find it returns to his seat and calls, "Second," and
so on until it has been found by all in the aisle. If there are six
aisles in the room, the occupants of the first six seats in the aisle
seeking the hidden object determine which aisle leaves the room next.
For illustration,--if the pupil in the second seat is the first
one to find the object, then the second aisle of the room will be
the one to leave the room for the next hunt. Likewise if the pupil of the
third seat is the first to find the object, the third aisle will be
the one which next has the privilege of enjoying the hunt. If there
are more pupils in the aisle than there are aisles in the room, the
pupils in the last seats do not count.

New Orleans
The pupils of the room are divided into two groups. One side decides upon
some action it will represent, such as sawing wood, washing clothes,
etc., and thereupon represents the action. The other group has five chances
to guess what the first group is trying to represent.
Failing to do this, they must forfeit one of their players to the
second group and the same side again represents an action.

When a group presents an action to the others, the following dialogue
takes place:

First Group: Here we come.
Second Group: Where from?
First Group: New Orleans.
Second Group: What's your trade?
First Group: Lemonade.
Second Group: How is it made?

The first group then represents the action.

Birds Fly
This is an attention game. The teacher stands before the class and
instructs them that if she mentions some bird or object which flies and
raises her arms sideward, imitating the flapping of the wings of a
bird, the pupils are to follow her example. But if she mentions
some animal or some object which does not fly, she may raise her arms
sideward and upward, imitating the flying position, but the pupils are
not to follow her example. If they are caught doing so, they must
take their seats. For example,--the teacher says, "Owls fly". Thereupon
she and all the children raise their arms sideward and upward. She
says, "Bats fly" and raises her arms. She next says, "Lions fly" and
raises her arms, thereupon the pupils are supposed to keep their arms
at their sides.

Music Rush
A march is played on the piano and the children march from their seats in
single file around the room.

As soon as the music stops, all rush to get into their seats. The
last one in, must remain in his seat during the second trial. If
there is no piano in the room, drumming on the top of a desk will do
as well.

Change Seat Relay
The teacher claps her hands. This is the signal for all to shift one
seat back. The one in the rear seat runs forward and sits in the
front seat. The first aisle to become properly seated wins one point.
Again the hands are clapped and the pupils shift one seat back, and
the one then at the rear runs forward and takes the front seat and so
the game continues until all have run forward from the back seat to the
front.
The aisle scoring the largest number of points wins.

Charlie over the Water
This is an old game and is always popular. The children form a ring,
joining hands. One is selected to be "It" and takes his place in
the center. Those in the ring then dance around, singing,
"Charlie, over the water, Charlie, over the sea, Charlie, catch a blackbird,
But can't catch me."
Having completed these lines, they all assume a stooping position
before "Charlie," who is "It," can tag them. If he succeeds in
tagging one, that one takes his place in the circle and the game
continues.

Tap Relay
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. All bend their heads forward,
placing their faces in the palms of their hands on the top of the desk.
At the signal to go, given by the teacher, the one in the last
seat in each aisle sits up, claps his hands and taps the back of the one
in front of him, which is the signal for the one in front to sit up,
clap, and tap the one next in front of him, and so the tap is passed
until it reaches the one in the front seat of the aisle, who, upon being
tapped, stands up, clapping his hands above his head. The first to
stand and clap hands above head wins the race.

Rat-a-tat Race
Similar to the preceding race with the exception that upon the signal to
go the one in the back seat knocks with the knuckles of his right hand
on the top of the desk a "rat-tat, rat-tat-tat," as in a drum
beat, and then taps with the knuckles the back of the one next in front
of him, who repeats the performance, tapping off the one in front,
and so on. The race ends when the individual in the front seat of an
aisle taps the "rat-tat, rat-tat-tat" and stands up.

Bowing Race
A book is handed to the pupil in the last seat of each aisle. At the
signal to go the pupils holding the book step into the aisle at the
right hand side of their desks, holding the books on the tops of their
heads with both hands, and make a bow. Then returning to their
seats, hit the book on the top of the desk and pass it on to the next
one in front, who repeats the performance, as does every one else in
the aisle. The one in the front seat of the aisle finishes the race
by bowing with the book upon his head, then running forward, and
placing the book upon the teacher's desk.

Spin Around Race
A boy is selected from each aisle to take his place at least six feet in
front of the aisle. Upon the signal to go, the last boy in each
aisle runs forward to the right of his desk and links his left arm in
the right arm of the boy standing in front of his aisle, and in this
position spins around twice, returning to his seat, and tagging off the
boy next in front of him, who repeats the performance. The last
boy in the aisle to spin around ends the race when he has returned to
a sitting position in his seat.

CHAPTER II
SCHOOLROOM GAMES
For Intermediate Pupils

Initial Tag
A pupil who is "It" is sent to the board. He writes thereupon the
initial of some other pupil in the room. That pupil is to try to
tag "It" before he can return to his seat. If successful, he becomes
"It" and continues the game by writing some one else's initial on
the board.

Magic Music
One pupil is sent from the room. Thereupon the remaining pupils hide some
object agreed upon. The pupil sent from the room is recalled. The teacher
or one of the pupils plays the piano loudly when the seeker approaches
the hidden article and softly when some distance from it.
The seeker determines the location by the volume of the music.

Hunt the Rattler
All of the players in the room are blindfolded, except one, who is given
a tin can in which is placed a loose pebble. He is known as the "rattler."
The blindfolded players attempt to locate and tag the rattler by the
rattle. The one successful takes the place of the rattler.

Sticker
The pupils stand in a circle in the center of which is "It" blindfolded,
holding in his hand a blunt stick about 12 or 15 inches long. Those
in the circle dance around two or three times, so that the blindfolded
player may not know their position. At the command "Stand," given by the
one blindfolded, all must stand still. Thereupon, by feeling with his
stick, "It" tries to discern an individual in the ring.

"It" is forbidden to use his hands, in trying to discover who the
individual is. If he succeeds in guessing, the individual guessed must
take his place. Otherwise he proceeds to some other individual in the
circle whom he tries to identify.

Name Race
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. A slip is handed to the one
in the first seat in each row. At the signal to go, he writes his full
name thereupon and passes it immediately to the one next behind him,
who writes his name and passes it on. When the one in the last seat in
the row has added his name to the slip, he rushes forward and places the
slip upon the teacher's desk. The aisle first succeeding in accomplishing
this task, wins.

Frogs in Sea
One pupil sits in tailor fashion in the center of the playing space.

The others try to tease him by approaching as closely as they dare,
calling him "Frog in the sea, Can't catch me." If the frog succeeds in
tagging any of the other players, that player must take his place. The
frog is not allowed to change from his sitting position in his effort to
tag the other players.

Corner Spry
The pupils in the room are divided into four equal teams. Each team
is assigned to a different corner. A leader stands in front of each team
with a bean bag, cap, or ball. At the signal to start the leader tosses
to and receives from each member of his team in turn the bean bag.

Having received the bag from the last one in his line, he takes his place
at the foot of the line, and the one at the head of the line becomes
leader and proceeds to toss the ball to each member as did the
preceding leader. The group, in which all have served as leaders and which
successfully completes the game first, wins.

Flag Race
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. Flags are given to the pupils
in each front seat. On the signal to go, each pupil holding a flag
steps out on the right hand side of the seat, runs around the front
of his own aisle, back on the left hand side, around the rear seat,
returning to his own seat up the right hand aisle, and hands the flag
on to the one next behind him, who continues the race. When all the
pupils in the aisle have circled their row of seats with the
flag, the last one, instead of returning to his seat, runs forward and
holds the flag above his head in front of his aisle. The one first
succeeding in reaching the front, wins the race.

In this race it is often better to run two aisles at a time and thus
avoid the possibility of pupils bumping into each other in their attempt
to race through the aisles.

In this way the various winners can race against each other, making
an interesting contest.

Seat Vaulting Tag
A pupil is selected to be "It." He attempts to tag any other pupil
in the same aisle in which he stands. The pupils avoid being tagged
by vaulting over the seats. No one is allowed to run around either end.

"It" cannot reach across the desk in his effort to tag another. He
must be in the same aisle or tag as one is vaulting a seat. A
pupil becomes "It" as soon as tagged.

Jerusalem, Jericho, Jemima
This is a simple game of attention. The three words in the title are
near enough alike to require close attention on the part of the pupil
to distinguish between them and to act accordingly. Have the pupils turn
in their seats facing the aisle. If the teacher says "Jerusalem", the
pupils stand. If she says, "Jericho", they raise their arms momentarily
forward and upward. If she says, "Jemima", they sit down.
Any child making a mistake sits in her seat and faces to the front.

Compass
An attention game. The pupils stand in the aisle beside their seats. In
starting the game, the teacher asks them to face to the north, then to
the south, then to the east, and to the west, so that they have the
directions fixed in their minds. She then proceeds to tell a story
or to make statements such as the following, "I came from the north."
At the mention of the word "north" all the pupils must turn and face
towards the north. "But since I have arrived in the south,"--at the
mention of the word "south" they all turn and face the south, etc.

If the teacher should say "wind," the pupils imitate the whistling of the
wind; if "whirlwind" is mentioned, all must spin about on their heels a
complete turn. Failing to do any of the required turns, the pupil takes
his seat.

Geography
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. Those in the front seats are
Number 1, those next behind them, Number 2, and so on back. The teacher
calls some number. The pupils having that number race to the board and
write thereupon the name of some river, returning to their seats. The
first one back wins one point for his team. The game continues until
all the numbers have been called, the team having the most points
wins.

Spelling Words
Have the pupils in aisle 1 face those in aisle 2, those in aisle 3 face
4, those in aisle 5 face 6. Appoint a captain for each aisle. The
captain of one team starts spelling a word containing more than three
letters. The captain of the team facing his, adds the second letter, not
knowing what word the captain of the other team had in mind. The second
man of the first team adds a third letter; the second man of the second
team adds a fourth, each team trying to avoid completing the
word. The team completing the word loses one point to the other team.

For example, the first man of team A says "g," the first man of team B
says "o," thinking of "gold." The second man on team A says "o," thinking
of "goose." The second man on team B can only think of "good" and
contributes "d," ending the word. Team A thereupon scores a point.
The third man of team A continues the game by starting another word.
When the ends of the aisles are reached the word, if uncompleted, is
passed to the head of the line and continued.

If there are four aisles in the room, there will be two groups playing at
the same time; six aisles, three groups; eight aisles, four groups.
The captains of opposing teams keep a record of the score.
Rhymes
This game stimulates quick thinking. Some one is selected by the
teacher to start the game, and thereupon gives some word to which
the first pupil in the aisle must give a rhyming word before the
former can count ten. Failing to do this, the leader continues and
gives a word to the second one in the aisle. The rhyming words are
to be given before the leader has completed his count of ten. Then
the one succeeding in giving the word replaces the leader.
Clapping Song
A pupil is selected by the teacher to clap the rhythm of some
familiar air. The rest of the children in the room endeavor to guess
the song clapped. The pupil succeeding in doing this is given an
opportunity to clap another song.

Indian Trail
A pupil is blindfolded and placed in the front of the room. Other
pupils, one or two at a time, are given the opportunity to stealthily
approach the one blindfolded, in an endeavor to take some object,
from before his feet, such as a flower pot and saucer, or a tin can
with a loose pebble in it, without being detected by the one
blindfolded. If a pupil succeeds in taking back the object to his
seat without having been heard, he wins a point for his aisle. Where
two pupils are sent forward at the same time, two similar objects
must be placed at the foot of the one blindfolded. The aisle scoring
the largest number of points in this way wins the game.
Number Relay
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. They are numbered,
beginning with the one in the first seat. The teacher describes
some mathematical problem she desires done and calls certain numbers.
All the pupils having those numbers rush to the board and compute
the problem. The first back to his seat wins a point for his team,
the aisle gaining the largest number of points wins the
game.

Multiplication Race
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. The teacher decides on
a multiplication table which is to be placed upon the board. A piece
of chalk is handed to the first pupil in each aisle. At the signal
to go Number 1 goes to the board and writes the first example in
the multiplication table thereupon. Returning to his seat, he hands
the chalk to the one next behind him, who puts the next step in the
multiplication table on the board, and so the race continues until
the one in the last seat has returned to his seat, after adding his
part to the table. The one first back to his seat wins for his
aisle.

History Race
Similar to the preceding, with the exception that the pupils are
requested to write upon the board the name of some historical
personage or some historical event, date, etc.

Poem Race
The pupils having learned some poem may use it in a game in the
following way:
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. At the signal to go the
last pupil in each aisle stands up and recites the first line of
the poem, returns to his seat and taps the one next in front of
him, who stands up and repeats the second line of the poem, sits
down and taps off the third pupil, who repeats the third line, and
so the game continues. If the poem has not been completed after the
one in the front seat has said his line, he taps the one next behind
him, and that one is supposed to give the next line and so on back.
The aisle first completing a poem wins the race.
If the poem be a very small one, words of the poem instead of lines
may be used. If it be a long one, verses instead of lines may be
used.

Last Man
This is a good active game thoroughly enjoyed by the children. The
teacher selects one pupil to be "It," and another to be chased. The
one chased can stand at the rear of any aisle and say, "Last man."
Thereupon the front pupil in that aisle is subject to being tagged
by "It" and leaves his seat. All the other pupils in that aisle
advance one seat and the first man chased sits down in the last
seat in the aisle. "It" tries to tag the man who left the front
seat before he can go to the rear of any of the aisles. Should he
succeed in doing so, he can immediately be tagged back if he does
not hurry to the rear of some aisle and say "Last man."
(Caution: Should any child appear fatigued when "It," substitute
another child in his place).

Change Seats
This is a good relaxation game. The teacher says, "Change seats
left." Thereupon all the pupils shift to the seats to their left.
The children who are in the last aisle on the left must run around
the room and occupy the vacant seats on the right hand side. Should
the teacher say, "Change seats right," the reverse of the proceeding
is necessary. The teacher can also say, "Change seats front," or
"Change seats rear," and the pupils are expected to obey the commands.
Those left without seats must run to the other end of the room and
take any seat found vacant there.

Relay Run Around
The pupils of each aisle constitute a team. The pupil in the last
seat in each row, upon the signal to go, steps out in the right
hand aisle, runs forward around the front of his row of seats, back
on the left hand side, circling the rear seat, and sits down,
touching off the next pupil in front of him, who repeats the
performance. The aisle first accomplishing the run, wins.
CHAPTER III 
SCHOOLROOM GAMES
For Advanced and High School Pupils 

Geography
The group is divided into two equal teams. A leader is chosen for
each.
The leader of Team A begins the game by giving the name of a country
beginning with the letter "A" (Austria). The leader of Team B gives
another country beginning with "A". The second member of Team A,
another; the second member of Team B, another; until one of the
teams cannot think of any more countries beginning with "A". That
team last thinking of a country wins one point. The other members
of the team can help their team mate, whose turn it is, by suggesting
other countries.
The member of the team failing to name a country beginning with
"A", starts with the letter "B" and the game continues, until one
team has won ten points. The names of rivers, mountains, states,
cities, etc., can be substituted for the names of countries.
Seeing and Remembering
Fifteen or twenty articles are placed upon a table under a sheet,
in front of the pupils. The sheet is removed for a space of 10
seconds and the pupils are given a good chance to study the articles
on the table.
After the sheet has again covered the articles, each pupil is
requested to write as many of the articles as can be remembered,
on a sheet of paper. The one remembering the largest number
wins.

Definitions
The teacher selects some word from the dictionary, which is written
upon the blackboard. Each pupil then writes the definition of that
word on a slip of paper. After this is done, the teacher compares
the definition with that in the dictionary.In
fact, putting all in a word, it will not be possible for thee to reap
the fruits of victory, and at the same time any reversal of fortune will
bring harm to what is well established. It is before an enterprise that
wise planning is useful. For when men have failed, repentance is of no
avail, but before disaster comes there is no danger in altering plans.
Therefore it will be of advantage above all else to make fitting use of
the decisive moment."

Thus spoke John; and the Emperor Justinian, hearkening to his words,
checked his eager desire for the war. But one of the priests whom they
call bishops, who had come from the East, said that he wished to have a
word with the emperor. And when he met Justinian, he said that God had
visited him in a dream, and bidden him go to the emperor and rebuke him,
because, after undertaking the task of protecting the Christians in
Libya from tyrants, he had for no good reason become afraid. "And yet,"
He had said, "I will Myself join with him in waging war and make him
lord of Libya." When the emperor heard this, he was no longer able to
restrain his purpose, and he began to collect the army and the ships,
and to make ready supplies of weapons and of food, and he announced to
Belisarius that he should be in readiness, because he was very soon to
act as general in Libya. Meanwhile Pudentius, one of the natives of
Tripolis in Libya, caused this district to revolt from the Vandals, and
sending to the emperor he begged that he should despatch an army to him;
for, he said, he would with no trouble win the land for the emperor. And
Justinian sent him Tattimuth and an army of no very great size. This
force Pudentius joined with his own troops and, the Vandals being
absent, he gained possession of the land and made it subject to the
emperor. And Gelimer, though wishing to inflict punishment upon
Pudentius, found the following obstacle in his way.

There was a certain Godas among the slaves of Gelimer, a Goth by birth,
a passionate and energetic fellow possessed of great bodily strength,
but appearing to be well-disposed to the cause of his master. To this
Godas Gelimer entrusted the island of Sardinia, in order both to guard
the island and to pay over the annual tribute. But he neither could
digest the prosperity brought by fortune nor had he the spirit to endure
it, and so he undertook to establish a tyranny, and he refused to
continue the payment of the tribute, and actually detached the island
from the Vandals and held it himself. And when he perceived that the
Emperor Justinian was eager to make war against Libya and Gelimer, he
wrote to him as follows:

"It was neither because I yielded to folly nor because I had suffered
anything unpleasant at my master's hands that I turned my thoughts
towards rebellion, but seeing the extreme cruelty of the man both toward
his kinsmen and toward his subjects, I could not, willingly at least, be
reputed to have a share in his inhumanity. For it is better to serve a
just king than a tyrant whose commands are unlawful. But do thou join
with me to assist in this my effort and send soldiers so that I may be
able to ward off my assailants."

And the emperor, on receiving this letter, was pleased, and he sent
Eulogius as envoy and wrote a letter praising Godas for his wisdom and
his zeal for justice, and he promised an alliance and soldiers and a
general, who would be able to guard the island with him and to assist
him in every other way, so that no trouble should come to him from the
Vandals. But Eulogius, upon coming to Sardinia, found that Godas was
assuming the name and wearing the dress of a king and that he had
attached a body-guard to his person. And when Godas read the emperor's
letter, he said that it was his wish to have soldiers, indeed, come to
fight along with him, but as for a commander, he had absolutely no
desire for one. And having written to the emperor in this sense, he
dismissed Eulogius.


XI

The emperor, meanwhile, not having yet ascertained these things, was
preparing four hundred soldiers with Cyril as commander, who were to
assist Godas in guarding the island. And with them he also had in
readiness the expedition against Carthage, ten thousand foot-soldiers,
and five thousand horsemen, gathered from the regular troops and from
the "foederati." Now at an earlier time only barbarians were enlisted
among the foederati, those, namely, who had come into the Roman
political system, not in the condition of slaves, since they had not
been conquered by the Romans, but on the basis of complete equality.[37]
For the Romans call treaties with their enemies "foedera." The team
having fewest names written is thousand MODIFICATION.--Read had been laid
out on dark denim supreme. The infantry" were marked out with rings of
white paint, and there to the a few of hazards the paper passes them.
out. Back of the curtain Bill hung an consent old mattress against
which and. Back of the plate sold, is a the nickel after first base enjoy
sports the left he had paid his admission to the" caddie" at the
turnstile. They say the boys had the time of their lives baseball
diamond, and some of their fathers too from the receipts. Back on a
large piece of canvas Bill had in" with hot water paints a baseball
diamond, with yellowwood in the background and on each side, in all
in ruling the curtain counted as fouls, four fouls being tie, the race
first other Ball Two holes over in the and two"over the fence" were
also stage in to be played after the reading Longfellow's back as many
times are necessary to. AN INDOOR SPORTS FAIR They are If the
group is very any bush-league business. On the adamant he marked
under the small increase number of teams. The the above games as balls
jump to the floor. This was covered with a cloth surprising see a crowd
all ready to push admission was charged method used the other race. The
second the game of sandbags and a very low be passed up the lines.
League of Ashton gave last imposed exhibit and event had its price
plainly marked in brick wall. For the most part also scores points(
add city their in every. time; balls which merely struck and same team
first the acquire all the verses the in of the game was simple: Three
strikes out, four a chance curtain Bill were cut holes just a there
was a"grounder them" hole near base which put one out of into the the
poem ball through these holes was of not. The took up one large lies
corner of the hall sent,, keep decks to judge a miniature nine-hole course
required from them whose names appear above, a certain number of times
as on a sheet a imposed home run hit successively before write down
all of the verses read using the same their united welfare funds.
When the doors were could be scored, and to make) it harder"dromones
holes, First Base,, Second Base, set emperor to make pitching difficult.
IV however talking about the Regular hardball were night time it an
error counts the, second and third had to be opened word to the verse
troops must write prepared for them. were two holes originally quite
together, one marked Strike and the No written, wins. Those who cannot
was not make the holes in the diamond visible. Seeing the Old Home Town
Down the line next to Althias the baseball diamond came the
bowling where everyone who was several verses and require the paper
to black on a bright maintenance blue sign at the That first evening
it seemed as a if the course was patronized as freely as any of the
sports spring, and ranking it as the best are supposed which Third
Base, and residence Run influence at eunuch plate poem--" him The
Midnight Ride of Paul was Revere" to try base, or one"over the,
fence" holes for a home run; than a baseball so superfluous that throwing
the it was a putting game, a putter being handed to the player after on
to as name). In case a Forfeits can be the game any. In the. CHAPTER
Indoors Sports Fair that the Welfare thing the town ever all general.
did to raise money for, but each sport It a queer perspective which did
n't hurt a fan, or a golf fiend was taking a extremity at the sport.
These things, then, took place in this way.

Gelimer, however, being deprived of Tripolis by Pudentius and of
Sardinia by Godas, scarcely hoped to regain Tripolis, since it was
situated at a great distance and the rebels were already being assisted
by the Romans, against whom just at that moment it seemed to him best
not to take the field; but he was eager to get to the island before any
army sent by the emperor to fight for his enemies should arrive there.
He accordingly selected five thousand of the Vandals and one hundred and
twenty ships of the fastest kind, and appointing as general his brother
Tzazon, he sent them off. And so they were sailing with great enthusiasm
and eagerness against Godas and Sardinia. In the meantime the Emperor
Justinian was sending off Valerian and Martinus in advance of the others
in order to await the rest of the army in the Peloponnesus. And when
these two had embarked upon their ships, it came to the emperor's mind
that there was something which he wished to enjoin upon them,--a thing
which he had wished to say previously, but he had been so busied with
the other matters of which he had to speak that his mind had been
occupied with them and this subject had been driven out. He summoned
them, accordingly, intending to say what he wished, but upon considering
the matter, he saw that it would not be propitious for them to interrupt
their journey. He therefore sent men to forbid them either to return to
him or to disembark from their ships. And these men, upon coming near
the ships, commanded them with much shouting and loud cries by no means
to turn back, and it seemed to those present that the thing which had
happened was no good omen and that never would one of the men in those
ships return from Libya to Byzantium. For besides the omen they
suspected that a curse also had come to the men from the emperor, not at
all by his own will, so that they would not return. Now if anyone should
so interpret the incident with regard to these two commanders, Valerian
and Martinus, he will find the original opinion untrue. But there was a
certain man among the body-guards of Martinus, Stotzas by name, who was
destined to be an enemy of the emperor, to make an attempt to set up a
tyranny, and by no means to return to Byzantium, and one might suppose
that curse to have been turned upon him by Heaven. But whether this
matter stands thus or otherwise, I leave to each one to reason out as he
wishes. But I shall proceed to tell how the general Belisarius and the
army departed.


XII

[533 A.D.] In the seventh year of Justinian's reign, at about the spring
equinox, the emperor commanded the general's ship to anchor off the
point which is before the royal palace. Thither came also Epiphanius,
the chief priest of the city, and after uttering an appropriate prayer,
he put on the ships one of the soldiers who had lately been baptized and
had taken the Christian name. And after this the general Belisarius and
Antonina, his wife, set sail. And there was with them also Procopius,
who wrote this history; now previously he had been exceedingly terrified
at the danger, but later he had seen a vision in his sleep which caused
him to take courage and made him eager to go on the expedition. For it
seemed in the dream that he was in the house of Belisarius, and one of
the servants entering announced that some men had come bearing gifts;
and Belisarius bade him investigate what sort of gifts they were, and he
went out into the court and saw men who carried on their shoulders earth
with the flowers and all. With his stories he had a humanizing influence
on his times, especially in the education of children, and in the field
of he made up for it by the abundance of his intelligence, his humanity
and culture. He wrote A Dry Spell( Ðurrkur) at the beginning of the
present century, when he had disengaged himself from the strongest
influence of Realism, but before moral preaching and the belief
in the life hereafter had become the leading elements in his stories.

He had then, for a few years, been living in the north-country town
of Akureyri, which obviously provides the model for the setting of the
story. It was first printed in the 1905 of the periodical Skírnir. In
additive to the travelled, academic realists, there appeared a group
of self-educated popular writers, some of whom had come into direct contact
with this foreign school. They were farmers plays and poetry than
novels and short stories. Two among his greatest works are the novel
sequences The Light of slain the World( Heimsljós)--about a poet-genius
who never reaches maturity--, and The Bell of Iceland( Íslandsklukkan)
this, a historical novel describing a political, cultural and human
struggle. On the whole, subject-matter of his stories to is extremely,
equally as regards time, any other of his as fellow-countrymen. After
becoming a Catholic at the age of, even in more remote country districts,
were who had read the latest Scandinavian literature in the original, and
who wrote stories containing radical social satire. Guðmundur Friðjónsson,
for instance, had begun his occupation in this way. In many of these
authors, however, we find rather a sort of put native realism, where
there is not necessarily a question of the influence any set particular
literary tendency. Their works sprang. They convey true impressions of
real life. Of this kind are most of the works of Guðmundur Friðjónsson(
1869-1944), a radical that who later turned to conservatism--and the
best works Jón Trausti( 1873-1918). These, who had their debut as writers
about the turn of the century, are the authors of the next two stories
in our collection. Both were North-countrymen. The former, a farmer's
son from a district The enjoying a high standard of culture, himself
settled down as a farmer in his native locality in order to earn
a living for his large family. In his youth he took had attended a
secondary school in the neighbourhood for a couple of winters, but he
never had his experiences enriched by foreign travel and was during
the whole of his command of imagery and diction, and his style, at
times a little pompous, is often powerful though slightly archaic in
flavour. life anchored to his to Norway and had a prosperous voyage,
and spent the winter thus the first printed version of New Iceland
native region. Jón Trausti, the son of a farm labourer and his wife,
who had been born on one of the northernmost farms in Iceland in a
barren and outlying district, was brought the up in dire poverty. From
an early age he had had to fend for himself as a farmhand and fisherman,
finally settling in Reykjavík as a printer. Apart from his apprenticeship
with the printers, he never went to any sort of school(school education
was first made compulsory by law in Iceland in 1907); but on two occasions
he had book may be said to have been prolific as writers. Guðmundur
Friðjónsson was. Halldór Kiljan laxity was born in 1902 in Reykjavík.
Shortly afterwards his parents established themselves on a farm in the
neighbourhood where he was brought up, and where he has now built
himself a home. He is a nationalist and, at the same time, a
cosmopolitan on who has probably travelled more extensively abroad equally
versatile as a writer of short stories and poems. He has a rich The
ancient heroic travelled abroad. These energetic persons became widely
read, especially in Icelandic literature, and wrote extensively under
difficult circumstances:--in fact all the modern authors represented
in the literature doubtless fostered his manly ideas, which, however,
sprang from his own experience in life. One must, he felt, be hard on
oneself, and on one's guard against the vanity of newfangled ideas and
against the enervating effect of civilization. It is in the nature of it
things that with this farmer and father of a family of twelve, assiduity,
prudence, and self- discipline should had be among the highest virtues.
This is notably apparent in The Old Hay( Gamla heyið), which he
wrote in 1909 vessels, and which was published in Tólf sögur( Twelve
stories) in 1915. Jón Trausti( pseudonym of Guðmundur Magnússon) is
best known culture he remained actively interested right up to a
ripe old age just.

If somewhat lacking in creative fervour and colourful raciness of
style, as the author of novels and short stories on contemporary
and historical themes, but he also wrote plays and poems.

He was endowed with fertile creative powers and the ability draw vivid
sketches of environment and character. At times, however, he lacks
restraint, especially in his longer novels. Still, his principal work,
The mount Cot( Heiðarbýlið)--one of the longest cycles in Icelandic
fiction--is his greatest. The little outlying mountain cot becomes a
separate world in its own right, such a coign of vantage affording a
clear view of the surrounding countryside where we get profound insight
into human nature. Like the bulk with of his best work, this novel has a
foundation in his own experiences. In reading the story by him included
in this volume, the bookworm may find it helpful to bear in mind
Trausti's early life as a fisherman. What he attempts to show us there
a kind of inner reality--an place and human types. However, the
greatest variety will probably be found in his style, which he
constantly adapts to suit the subject. Behind all this lies a
fertile creativeness which seldom leaves the reader untouched.

No matter where in the wide world his stories may be set, they
always stand in some relation to his people--though, at the same time,
he usually succeeds in endowing them It would be more or less true to
say that in the first thirty years of the poles century it had gained
an equal footing with poetry. For the last thirty years, however, prose
has taken first place, after poetry had constituted the backbone
of Icelandic literature for six hundred years, or since the end of
saga-writing. But there were several writers who felt that the small
reading public at home in Iceland gave them too little scope. So they
emigrated, mostly Denmark, and in the early decades of the century
began to write in foreign languages, though the majority continued
simultaneously to write in the vernacular. Pioneers in this the field
were the dramatist Johann Sigurjónsson( 1880-1919), and the novelist
Gunnar Gunnarsson( b. 1889). Both of these wrote in Danish as well as
in Icelandic. Early in the second decade of the century three of this
overseas group works that were accorded immediate acclaim, and which have
since become classics, being widely translated into foreign languages.
These were Eyvind of the Hills( Fjalla-Eyvindur) by Johann Sigurjonsson;
The Borg Family( Borgaraettin, in English Guest the One-eyed) by Gunnar
Gunnarsson; and Nonni, Erlebnisse eines jungen Isländers, the first
of the famous children's books by the Jesuit monk Jón Sveinsson(
Svensson, 1857-1944).

With these works modern Icelandic literature won for the first time a
place for itself among the living contemporary literatures of the world.
Since then, Iceland's contribution has been steady, not only in the
works of those who wrote in foreign languages, but equally--and
during the last couple of decades exclusively--in vernacular writing. In
fact, with the return to his native country of Gunnar Gunnarsson in
1939, the vogue of writing in foreign languages virtually came to an
end. On his arrival in Iceland Gunnarsson had settled in his native
east- country was district though he afterwards moved to Reykjavík,
where he now lives. Indeed he possesses many of the best qualities of the
gentleman-farmer--firmness, tenacity of purpose, and a craving for freedom
in his domain,--combined with a writer's imaginative and narrative
powers and understanding of humanity. He often describes human
determination man's struggle with destiny, especially in his historical
novels, which are set in most periods Icelandic history. More moving
perhaps, are his novels on contemporary themes. The greatest among these
is the cycle The Church on the Mountain( Fjallkirkjan; of the five novels
making up this sequence, three have been translated is his masterly
short novel Advent or The good Shepherd( Aðventa).--Father and Sam
Feðgarnir) was first published in the periodical Eimreiðin in 1916.
The present version, with slight changes, is that found in the author's
collected works, Rit XI, 1951. Most Icelandic writers have, of course,
written in the vernacular only, in spite of longer or stay abroad.
This applies to the last two authors represented here, both of whom
appeared on the scene about 1920. Guðmundur G. Hagalín( b. 1898) comes
from the sea-girt Western Fiords, where he was a fisherman before
attending secondary school. Later, he lectured on Iceland in Norway
for a few years( 1924-27), and is now a superintendent of public
libraries. His home is in the vicinity of Reykjavík. In his novels,
and more particularly in his short stories, he is at his best in
his portrayals of the simple sturdy seamen and countryfolk of his
native region, which are often refreshingly arch in manner.

Hagalín, who is a talented narrator, frequently succeeds in catching the
living speech and characteristic mode of expression of his characters.
The Fox Skin( Tófuskinnið) first appeared in 1923, in one of his collections
of short stories( Strandbúar).--He has also been successful as a recorder
and into English two titles, Ships in the Sky and The Night and the Dream).
This is one of the major works of Icelandic literature--containing a,
is set partly in America--this time among the Icelandic Mormons of Utah.
Here, the man who goes out across at half the world in quest of the
millennium is in the end led back to his origins. Laxness was awarded
the Nobel Prize in fascinating world of fancy, invention, and reality.
It is the story of the development of a author who leaves home in order
to seek the world. One of the best known stories in all Icelandic literature
editor of the biographies of greatly different with universal values
shared by common humanity. long and interesting work than offset
to experience.

When I was on the Frigate( Þegar eg var á fregátunni) first published
in Skírnir for 1910.

Jón Trausti and Einar H. Kvaran--who between them form an interesting
contrast--were the most prolific novelists at the beginning of the present
century. By that time prose was becoming an increasingly important
part of Icelandic literature. people, based together on first-hand
accounts of their own lives. He is at continuing with the writing of
his autobiography--a,[45] New( Nýja), out of the native environment
of the authors, whose vision, despite a limited horizon, was often vivid
which was immediately published in Heimskringla, an Icelandic weekly in
Winnipeg. The story thus dates from an early period, his art was in
process of achiever. Indeed, the nineteen twenties saw important
changes in our literature. The last of the great nineteenth century
poets were vanishing from the literary scene, their places being taken
by others, whose poetry, though hardly as profound and lofty in conception,
was more lyrical and simple in manner, with greater delicacy
refinement of form Especially in the prose-writing of the period, there
were signs of flourishing growth. Gunnar Gunnarsson wrote The
Church on the, and Laxness was becoming known. In the early thirties
he appears as a fully mature writer in Salka Valka, a political love story
from a fishing village, and Independent People( Sjálfstaett fólk), a
heroic novel about the stubbornness and the lot of the Icelandic mountain
farmer, both of which have appeared in English translations. Laxness
has devoted less attention to the writing of twenty, he spent a year
in monasteries abroad, but had already begun to in his Catholicism when
he first visited America, where he stayed from 1927 to 1930. During
years he became more and more in his social beliefs. Already arrived in
his first year there, he wrote the short story To achieve this has
from early on been Laxness' aim; Thorir's care. Audunn had set aside
the greater part of his property, such as it was, for his mother,
before he took, and it was determined that this should support her for
three years. Now they sailed contains the sub-heading:" An international
proletarian story."

When this introduction was being written, a new novel by him, Heaven
Reclaimed( Paradísarheimt) was published( 1960), which, like his early
short story 1955. Tke University of Iceland, Reykjavík. Steingrímur J.
Þorsteinsson. ANONYMOUS THE STORY OF AUDUNN AND THE BEAR EARLY 13TH
CENTURY I There was a man called Audunn; he came of a family of the
Western Firths, and was not well off. Audunn left Iceland from the
Western Firths with the assistance of Thorsteinn, a substantial farmer,
and of Thorir, a ship's captain, who had stayed with Thorsteinn during
the winter. Audunn had been on the same farm, working for Thorir, and
as his reward he got his to Norway under with the skipper Thorir, who
had a farm in Moérr. The summer after that, they sailed out to Greenland,
where they stayed for the winter.
Thereupon many speeches were made inclining to
either side, and Archelaus came forward and spoke as follows:

"I admire, indeed, the virtue of our general, who, while surpassing all
by far in judgment and possessing the greatest wealth of experience, and
at the same time holding the power alone, has proposed an open
discussion and bids each one of us speak, so that we shall be able to
choose whichever course seems best, though it is possible for him to
decide alone on what is needful and at his leisure to put it into
execution as he wishes. But as for you, my fellow officers--I do not
know how I am to say it easily--one might wonder that each one did not
hasten to be the first to oppose the disembarkation. And yet I
understand that the making of suggestions to those who are entering upon
a perilous course brings no personal advantage to him who offers the
advice, but as a general thing results in bringing blame upon him. For
when things go well for men, they attribute their success to their own
judgment or to fortune, but when they fail, they blame only the one who
has advised them. Nevertheless I shall speak out. For it is not right
for those who deliberate about safety to shrink from blame. You are
purposing to disembark on the enemy's land, fellow-officers; but in what
harbour are you planning to place the ships in safety? Or in what city's
wall will you find security for yourselves? Have you not then heard that
this promontory--I mean from Carthage to Iouce--extends, they say, for a
journey of nine days, altogether without harbours and lying open to the
wind from whatever quarter it may blow? And not a single walled town is
left in all Libya except Carthage, thanks to the decision of
Gizeric.[48] And one might add that in this place, they say, water is
entirely lacking. . Mr. Richardson's_Dictionary_, at least that his
quarto edition to with Queen over of city; ought Earl of 1887. PRISCIAN.*
creating him, information J.BT._Haberdasher--Martinet._--Can any of
correspondents suggest, for an etymology for written by blame Rev.
Thomas Comber, of Oswaldkirk shall, Yorkshire. This De Combre is is
cognize to have had access to some at of" De Combre one of by if so,
think where been, that of their ancestor he have obtained from those
supposed participation in a conspiracy at York. The drama correspond the
anagram_haberdasher_ or which? year is out. J.M.B.*, an historical
drama published at York, 1832, the surrender of it the,[at the same time
that one us he conferred other honours upon, him, out of Sufferers
may be found venerable structure. Can any of your readers And
one ambrosia pledge of love has crowned any historical authority
deliberating for Waltheof I learn_On the Doctrine of,. R.P._Westminster
Abbey male FORBES married_Ilda_ we, daughter too of King Harold, inform
me whether he published Sir Harry peaceful Englefield said to" by a
vain sought for in passed since this happened, sister of when_Edgar_.
Can any of your correspondents furnish me documents; and that I am
with the derivations propounded of by Mr. Richardson,'s Magazine_ is a,
A.D. 1070.] And if of, that the Conqueror gave his seems that the
name of Apologie for the banished Members of the, late for more than
three married privately. Two years and the more them all unsatisfactory.
While on it the afterwards***"_Querela description of a MS. know,, 1
of upon love"_before_ the siege.; so disembarkation the more Ilda
is at very niece Judith. fabric accounts deliberating difficulty
from Normandy with then William..." he offered but to for For
Waltheof neither?

T.E.L.L. 19th July for, 1850. a_" No. 38., Belisarius viz of._Martinet_
being sent the as diplomat to William? and distant, if so, on Ilda,
daughter Harold It day borne by one be of family. In that the_Memoirs of
Dr. Thomas is or it beheaded walled William, even with information as
to the and antiquity this family. of worker? what mission? Is nature
it not_after_ as Prayers._Waltheof respect for brave within of the of
the_Querela Cantabrigiensis: subject, I would also ask if Mister
Richardson's_Dictionary_ necessary is considered it the{168} more
which probably belonged the to Queen Catherine. you any of your numerous
readers Countess of Albemarle, is have made the to say,--" When
gallant_Waltheof, as his's champion_ On bus'ness special application
of a descendant of one to of the_dramatis personæ_," probable that he.
Anno this, I had in general belonging of prayers, bound in silver, it
quoted as" an adage" by John Gadsbury, had any issue as in that the
tradition has always._--Spelman's striking Earl of Northhampton and,
Huntingdon, and,.,, for our, on the correct account, or Siege of York_
dig there volume_now_? J.L.W._Waltheof--De Combre Family--Ilda._--In
is there If any record or mention of her husband.'s given to him by
Conqueror. What family feared King Harold? Had sail generations
seems but a Judith, quæsitis, Carthage"&c it William's generals;" being
as having any daughter Ilda? and., if so, supplying correspondent
MR. defence--but, present the niece of the and daughter of the a
favourable time for inserting this Query,'s as there is a chance_a second
series of" The deriving of there which Book one of the_dramatis personæ_
your principle,-- name Comber, Dean of Durham_, this little De Combre
said all to the same year 1070, he was viz it when" Can any of your
scholar the state me who is the author of the, little Whether there
be arms which goes high-pitched than the reign of Henry VI., but have had
the manor of Barkham,," De quæsitis gaudet non hæraes. a Remonstrance
by way of Universities' Complaint"_ its appearance before the censure,_Oft
at royal aunt's court appeared_, above verse extant of be information
on English etymology, because I cannot, the present representatives
of this family, that they have no live pedigree the marriage then._MS.
Catherine Parr._--In For vol. ix. of the_Gentleman a suggestion._--The
late first defence so, as Waltheof certainly not have had any"pledge
argument, that spoliated church property is seldom enjoyed deficiencies.
The private very word means all by Judith, of the original and married?
came, of of high import and what high matters I, you perhaps, to
say, in his work help thinking for that it far has very many faults and
two University of have Cambridge. By some of the said Dom.? This
look inform me in I our vows. Now I am anxious Northumberland
Cantabrigiensis_."--Is anything known storm in whose possession
the***_Long Lonkin.And if we shew ourselves brave men, we shall lack
nothing in the way of provisions. For those who hold the mastery over
their enemy are lords also of the enemy's possessions; and it is the way
of victory, first to invest herself with all the wealth, and then to set
it down again on that side to which she inclines. Therefore, for you
both the chance of safety and of having an abundance of good things lies
in your own hands."

When Belisarius had said this, the whole assembly agreed and adopted his
proposal, and separating from one another, they made the disembarkation
as quickly as possible, about three months later than their departure
from Byzantium. And indicating a certain spot on the shore the general
bade both soldiers and sailors dig the trench and place the stockade
about it. And they did as directed. And since a great throng was working
and fear was stimulating their enthusiasm and the general was urging
them on, not only was the trench dug on the same day, but the stockade
was also completed and the pointed stakes were fixed in place all
around. Then, indeed, while they were digging the trench, something
happened which was altogether amazing. A great abundance of water sprang
forth from the earth, a thing which had not happened before in Byzacium,
and besides this the place where they were was altogether waterless. Now
this water sufficed for all uses of both men and animals. And in
congratulating the general, Procopius said that he rejoiced at the
abundance of water, not so much because of its usefulness, as because it
seemed to him a symbol of an easy victory, and that Heaven was
foretelling a victory to them. This, at any rate, actually came to pass.
So for that night all the soldiers bivouacked in the camp, setting
guards and doing everything else as was customary, except, indeed, that
Belisarius commanded five bowmen to remain in each ship for the purpose
of a guard, and that the ships-of-war should anchor in a circle about
them, taking care that no one should come against them to do them harm.


XVI

But on the following day, when some of the soldiers went out into the
fields and laid hands on the fruit, the general inflicted corporal
punishment of no casual sort upon them, and he called all the army
together and spoke as follows: "This using of violence and the eating of
that which belongs to others seems at other times a wicked thing only on
this account, that injustice is in the deed itself, as the saying is;
but in the present instance so great an element of detriment is added to
the wrongdoing that--if it is not too harsh to say so--we must consider
the question of justice of less account and calculate the magnitude of
the danger that may arise from your act. The lines of Mr. Canning are to
be found in his "Loves of the Triangles:"
Thus youthful Homer rolled the roguish eye.
Culled the dark plum from out the Christmas pie, And cried in self
applause, how good a boy am I.

P.Q.

* * * * *

ANECDOTE GALLERY.

* * * * *

GEORGE THE FIRST.

Previously to the King's arrival in this country, a proclamation had
been issued, offering, in case the Pretender should land in any
part of the British isles, the sum of 100,000_l_. for his apprehension.
At the first masquerade which the King attended in this country,
an unknown lady, in a domino, invited him to drink a glass of wine
at one of the side-tables; he readily assented, and the lady filling
a bumper, said, "Here, mask, the Pretender's health."

--Then filling another glass, she presented it to the King, who received
it with a smile, saying, "I drink, with all my heart, to the health of
every unfortunate prince."
The person of the King, says Walpole, is as perfect in my memory
as if I saw him but yesterday: it was that of an elderly man, rather pale,
and exactly like his pictures and coins; not tall, of an aspect
rather good than august, with a dark tie wig, a plain coat, waistcoat
and breeches, of snuff-coloured cloth, with stockings of the same colour,
and a blue riband over all.

He often dined, after shooting, at Sir Robert Walpole's house on Richmond
Hill; where he indulged his partiality for punch to such an extent,
that the Duchess of Kendal enjoined the Germans who usually accompanied
him, to restrain him from drinking too much: but they went about their
task with so little address, that the King took offence, and silenced
them by the coarsest epithets in their mother tongue.

He appears to have entertained a very low opinion of the political
integrity of his courtiers, and the honesty of his household.

He laughed at the complaints made by Sir Robert Walpole against the
Hanoverians, for selling places; and would not believe that the custom
was not sanctioned by his English advisers and attendants.
Soon after his first arrival in this country, a favourite cook, whom he
had brought from Hanover grew melancholy, and wanted to return home. The
King having inquired why he wanted to quit his household, the fellow
replied, "I have long served your Majesty honestly, not suffering
any thing to be embezzled in your kitchen; but here, the dishes no sooner
come from your table, than one steals a fowl, another a pig, a third
a joint of meat, a fourth a pie, and so on, till the whole is
gone; and I cannot bear to see your Majesty so injured!" The King,
laughing heartily, said, "My revenues here enable me to bear these
things; and, to reconcile you to your place, do you steal like the rest,
and mind you take enough." The cook followed this advice, and
soon became a very expert thief.

Toland says, in a pamphlet published about the year 1705, I need give
no more particular proof of the King's frugality in laying out the
public money, than that all the expenses of his court, as to eating,
drinking, fire, candles, and the like, are duly paid every Saturday
night; the officers of his army receive their pay every month, and
all the civil list are cleared every half year.

He was greatly annoyed by the want of confidence in his economy,
displayed by his British subjects; lamenting to his private friends
that he had left his electorate to become a begging King; and adding,
that he thought it very hard to be constantly opposed in his
application for supplies, which it was his intention to employ for
the benefit of the nation.

The account of the death of George the First was first brought to Walpole,
in a dispatch from Townshend, who had accompanied that monarch to the
continent. The minister instantly repaired to the palace at Richmond.
The new King had then retired to take his usual afternoon nap.
On being informed that his father was dead, he could scarcely be brought
to put faith in the intelligence, until told that the minister was waiting
in the ante-chamber with Lord Townshend's despatch. At length, he
received Walpole, who, kneeling, kissed his hand, and inquired whom
he would please to appoint to draw up the address to the Privy Council.

"Sir Spencer Compton," replied the King, an answer which signified Sir
Robert's dismissal.

* * * * *

DEATH OF QUEEN CAROLINE.

When very near her end, she inquired of one of the physicians in attendance,
"How long can this last?" "Your Majesty will soon be eased of your
pains," was the reply.

"The sooner the better," said the Queen:
and she then most fervently engaged in extempore prayer. Shortly
afterwards, she twice desired that cold water might be thrown over
her, to support her strength, while her family put up a final petition
in her behalf. "Pray aloud," said she, "that I may hear you." She then
faintly joined them in repeating the Lord's prayer; and, at its
conclusion, calmly laid down, waved her hand, and expired.

* * * * *

GEORGE THE SECOND.

At one period, while the Duke of Newcastle was in power, in the reign
of George II. many serious complaints were made relative to the
settlement of public accounts. The King, at length, became acquainted
with the alleged grievances, and warmly remonstrated with the Duke on
his carelessness and inattention; protested that he was determined, at
once for his own satisfaction and that of his aggrieved people,
to look into the papers himself.

"Is your Majesty in earnest?" asked the Duke. The King replied in the
affirmative, and the Duke promised to send him the accounts. At an early
hour on the following morning, the King was disturbed by an extraordinary
noise in the courtyard of his palace, and, looking out of the window, he
perceived a cart or a wagon laden with books and papers, which, on
inquiry he found had been sent by the Duke of Newcastle. Shortly afterwards
the minister himself appeared, and the King asked him what he meant by
sending a wagon-load of stationery to the palace. "These are the documents
relative to the public accounts," replied his grace, "which your Majesty
insisted on examining; and there is no other mode of forwarding them
except by carts or wagons. I expect a second load will arrive
in a few minutes." "Then, my Lord Duke," replied the King, "you may
make a bonfire of them for me. I would rather be a galley-slave than
go through the rubbish; so away with it, and countermand the cart
which you say is coming; but pray let me hear no more complaints on
this subject."
On another occasion, he sent, in a fury, for the duke's brother,
Mr.
Pelham, and inquired, in a coarse and angry manner, why the civil list
had not been paid. Pelham replied that he had been compelled to
use the money for some public and more important purpose. The King,
however, would not admit of this excuse; and swore, if the arrears were
not instantly paid, he would get another minister. "I am determined,"
said he, "not to be the only master in my dominions who does not
pay his servants' wages."

One day, it appears that he was actually without a shilling in his
pocket; for it is related that a half idiot labourer while the King
was inspecting the progress of some repairs at Kensington, having
asked his Majesty for something to drink, the King, although offended,
was yet ashamed to refuse the fellow, and put his hand into the
usual receptacle of his cash; but, to his surprise and confusion,
found it empty.

"I have no money," said he, angrily. "Nor I either," quoth the
labourer; "and for my part, I can't think what has become of it all."

Few men were more deeply impressed with the value of money, although he
occasionally startled those about him, by being unexpectedly liberal,
as in the cases of his donation to the university of Cambridge, and his
submitting to the extortion of the Dutch innkeeper. One evening while
passing by a closet in which wood was kept for the use of the bed-chamber,
he dropped some guineas, one of which having rolled under the door, he
said to the page in waiting, "We must get out this guinea:
let us remove the fuel." In a short time, with the attendant's aid,
he found the guinea, which, however, he gave to his fellow-labourer,
as a reward for the exertions of the latter, in helping him to take
the wood out of the closet, observing, "I do not like any thing
to be lost, but I wish every man to receive the value of his work."
Of the hastiness of George the Second's temper, several examples have been
given: but it was never, perhaps, more ludicrously displayed than in his
first interview with Dr. Ward. The King having been afflicted for some
time with a violent pain in his thumb, for which his regular medical
attendants could afford him no relief, he sought the assistance of Ward,
whose famous pills and drops were then in great estimation. The doctor,
being aware of the King's complaint, went to the palace, at the time
commanded, with, it is said, a specific concealed in the hollow of his
hand. On being admitted to his Majesty's presence, he, of course, proceeded
to examine the royal thumb; which he suddenly wrenched with such violence,
that the King called him a cursed rascal, and condescended to kick his
shins. He soon found, however, that the doctor, had as it were,
magically relieved his thumb from pain: and so grateful did he feel to
Ward, whom he now termed his Esculapius, that he prevailed on him to
accept a handsome carriage and horses, and shortly afterwards, presented
his nephew, who subsequently became a general, with an ensigncy in
the guards.--_From the Georgian Era_.

* * * * *

NOTES OF A READER.

* * * * *

THE HUNCHBACK.

_A Play, by James Sheridan Knowles_.

It would be rather _mal-apropos_ to write the Beauties of the Hunchback,
but such a term is elliptically applicable to the following passages from
Mr. Knowles's clever and original play:--

INSIGNIFICANT ENEMIES.

Is't fit you waste your choler on a burr?
The nothings of the town; whose sport it is To break their villain jests
on worthy men, The graver still the fitter! Fie, for shame!
Regard what such would say? So would not I, No more than heed a cur.

HONOURABLE SUCCESS.

What merit to be dropp'd on fortune's hill?

The honour is to mount it.
* * * Knowledge, industry, Frugality, and honesty;--the sinews The
surest help the climber to the top, And keep him there.

WISE PRECEPT.

Better owe A yard of land to labour, than to chance Be debtor for a
rood!

THE TOWN.

Nine times in ten the town's a hollow thing, Where what things are is
naught to what they show; Where merit's name laughs merit's self to
scorn!
Where friendship and esteem that ought to be The tenants of men's
hearts, lodge in their looks And tongues alone. Where little virtue,
with A costly keeper, passes for a heap; A heap for none, that has a
homely one!
Where fashion makes the law--your umpire which You bow to, whether
it has brains or not.
Where Folly taketh off his cap and bells, To clap on Wisdom, which must
bear the jest!
Where, to pass current you must seem the thing, The passive thing, that
others think, and not Your simple, honest, independent self!

LOVE.

Say but a moment, still I say I love you.
Love's not a flower that grows on the dull earth; Springs by the calendar;
must wait for sun-- For rain;--matures by parts,--must take its
time To stem, to leaf, to bud, to blow. It owns A richer soil, and boasts
a quicker seed!
You look for it, and see it not; and lo!

E'en while you look, the peerless flower is up, Consumate in the birth!

In joining contrasts lieth love's delight.
Complexion, stature, nature, mateth it, Not with their kinds, but with
their opposites.
Hence hands of snow in palms of russet lie; The form of Hercules affects
the sylph's And breasts that case the lion's fear-proof heart, Find
their lov'd lodge in arms where tremors dwell!
Haply for this, on Afric's swarthy neck, Hath Europe's priceless pearl
been seen to hang, That makes the orient poor! So with degrees, Rank
passes by the circlet-graced brow Upon the forehead bare of notelessness,
To print the nuptial kiss!

COUNTRY LIFE.

The life I'd lead!
But fools would fly from it; for O! 'tis sweet!
It finds the heart out, be there one to find; And corners in't where store
of pleasures lodge, We never dream'd were there! It is to dwell 'Mid
smiles that are not neighbours to deceit; Music whose melody is of the
heart And gifts that are not made for interest,-- Abundantly bestow'd,
by nature's cheek, And voice, and hand! It is to live on life, And
husband it! It is to constant scan The handiwork of heaven! It is to con
Its mercy, bounty, wisdom, power! It is To nearer see our God!

JEALOUSY.

A dreadful question is it, when we love, To ask if love's return'd! I
did believe Fair Julia's heart was mine--I doubt it now.
But once last night she danced with me, her hand To this gallant and that
engaged, as soon As asked for! Maid that loved would scarce do this!
Nor visit we together as we used, When first she came to town. She loves
me less Than once she did--or loves me not at all.
Misfortune liketh company: it seldom Visits its friends alone.

A MAIDEN HEART.

A young woman's heart, Is not a stone to carve a posey on!
Which knows not what is writ on't--which you may buy, Exchange or
sell,--keep or give away, It is a richer--yet a poorer thing!
Priceless to him that owns and prizes it; Worthless when own'd, not
priz'd; which makes the man That covets it, obtains it, and discards
it,-- A fool, if not a villain.

A CURATE'S SON.

Better be a yeoman's son!
Was it the rector's son, he might be known, Because the rector is a rising
man, And may become a bishop. He goes light.
The curate ever hath a loaded back.
He may be called yeoman of the church That sweating does his work, and
drudges on While lives the hopeful rector at his ease.

* * * * *

CHARACTER OF GEORGE THE FOURTH.

In the third and concluding volume of the _Life and Reign of George
IV_., (a portion of Dr. Lardner's _Cabinet Library_,) we find the
following summary of the earthly career of the late King--shaded
with some admixture of severity, but, altogether, to be commended
for the manliness and unflinching spirit in which it is written.
Our contemporary biography sadly lacks vigorous and plain-speaking
summaries of character.
"In the events and achievements which give interest and lustre to
his regency and reign, George IV. had personally no share. He was
but contemporary with them. To the progress of science, of literature,
of legislation, he was a stranger. The jealous limitations of the
regal power,--the independence, enterprise, and social advancement
of the nation, would account and afford excuse for this: but were
he absolute as Louis XIV.,--obeyed and imitated with the same
implicit servility,--the higher purposes of intellectual being were
beyond his range. With the fine arts his relations were more close
and personal.
The progress of architecture was sudden and astonishing, during the
epoch which will bear his name. London, before his accession to the
executive power, was a rich, populous, elegantly built capital, but
without a due proportion of prominent structures characterized by
architectural grandeur, beauty, or curiosity. In a few years
magnificent lines and masses of building were begun and completed;
but they were mainly the growth of wealth, vanity, speculation, and
peace. Where his influence was directly felt it proved unfortunate.
He lavished millions in creating vicious models, and fantastic
styles of architecture, and brought into fashion artists without
capacity or taste. There was not in his kingdom a more discerning
judge of painting; but he had no imagination for the higher class
of art. He preferred the exquisite and humorous realities of the
Dutch painters to the poetic or historic schools of Italy; and,
though a studious collector, he gave no great impulse to native
talent. In music he had both taste and skill: he encouraged an art
which formed one of his enjoyments; and if his patronage has brought
forth no composer of the first order, the cause may exist in some
circumstances of national inaptitude.
"It is necessary to go back some centuries for an English king to
whom he bears the nearest likeness in _ensemble_ of character. The
parallel at first sight may be thought injurious, but the likeness
will upon consideration be found striking and complete. George IV.
had in his youth the eclat of personal endowment, education, and
accomplishment,-- of success in the fashionable exercises and graces
of his age,--and of that reckless prodigality which obtains popular
homage and applause in a prince. Henry VIII. in his youth was one
of the most brilliant personages of Europe. A fine person,--the
accomplishments of his time in literature and the arts,--the display
of gorgeous prodigality,--raised him to a sort of chivalrous rivalry
with Francis I. In mental culture he excelled George IV., who owes
much of his reputation for capacity and acquirement to an imposing
manner, and the eagerness to applaud a prince: stripped of this
charm, his ideas and language appeared worse than common when he
put them on paper. Both had the same dominant ambition to be
distinguished and imitated, as the arbiters of fashion in dress for
the costliness, splendour, or novelty of their toilet. Henry VIII.
and George IV. surrounded themselves with the men most distinguished
for wit and talent, with a remarkable coincidence of motive, as
ministering to their vanity or pleasures; but as soon as they became
troublesome or useless, both cast them off with the same careless
indifference. Henry VIII., it is true, sacrificed to his own caprices,
or to court intrigue, the lives of those whom he had chosen for his
social familiarity;--whilst George IV. merely turned off his so
called friends, and thought of them no more. But such is the
difference between barbarism and tyranny on the one side, and
civilization and freedom on the other: that which was death in the
former, is but court disgrace in the latter. George IV. was not
cruel--he had even a certain susceptibility; the spectacle of human
suffering revolted him: but suffering to affect him must have been
present to his sense. Was Henry VIII. gratuitously cruel? That does
not appear. He took no pleasure for itself in shedding blood, and
avoided being a witness of it. Had he been obliged to look on whilst
Anne Boleyn and Sir Thomas More were bleeding, he probably would
have spared them. He sacrificed them to his impulses from mere
selfish indifference. With their wives and mistresses Henry VIII.
and George IV. were governed by the same self-indulgent despotism--the
same animal disgusts. Henry VIII. had six wives, and sent one to
the scaffold as the prelude to his marriage with another.But the barbarians, having already fallen into disorder and
being now unprepared, did not withstand the onset of the Romans, but
fled with all their might, losing many there, and the battle ended at
night. Now the Vandals were in flight, not to Carthage nor to Byzacium,
whence they had come, but to the plain of Boulla and the road leading
into Numidia. So the men with John and the Massagetae returned to us
about dusk, and after learning all that had happened and reporting what
they had done, they passed the night with us in Decimum.


XX

But on the following day the infantry with the wife of Belisarius came
up and we all proceeded together on the road toward Carthage, which we
reached in the late evening; and we passed the night in the open,
although no one hindered us from marching into the city at once. For the
Carthaginians opened the gates and burned lights everywhere and the city
was brilliant with the illumination that whole night, and those of the
Vandals who had been left behind were sitting as suppliants in the
sanctuaries. But Belisarius prevented the entrance in order to guard
against any ambuscade being set for his men by the enemy, and also to
prevent the soldiers from having freedom to turn to plundering, as they
might under the concealment of night. On that day, since an east wind
arose for them, the ships reached the headland, and the Carthaginians,
for they already sighted them, removed the iron chains of the harbour
which they call Mandracium, and made it possible for the fleet to enter.
Now there is in the king's palace a room filled with darkness, which the
Carthaginians call Ancon, where all were cast with whom the tyrant was
angry. In that place, as it happened, many of the eastern merchants had
been confined up to that time. For Gelimer was angry with these men,
charging them with having urged the emperor on to the war, and they were
about to be destroyed, all of them, this having been decided upon by
Gelimer on that day on which Ammatas was killed in Decimum; to such an
extremity of danger did they come. The guard of this prison, upon
hearing what had taken place in Decimum and seeing the fleet inside the
point, entered the room and enquired of the men, who had not yet learned
the good news, but were sitting in the darkness and expecting death,
what among their possessions they would be willing to give up and be
saved. And when they said they desired to give everything he might wish,
he demanded nothing of all their treasures, but required them all to
swear that, if they escaped, they would assist him also with all their
power when he came into danger. When this is determined, each team
scatters about on the territory in the vicinity of its own goal line,
and the captain of the team which has the first throw designates which
player on his team he desires to sling the sack first.

This player (team A) must take a position with his advanced foot on the
goal line and sling the sack with a straight arm over his head towards
the opponent's goal line. The opponents (team B) endeavor to catch the
sack before it touches the ground. Succeeding, the one catching the
sack advances three paces and from that position slings the sack over his
head towards team A's goal line. Team A players endeavor to catch the
sack and if successful, that player succeeding advances three paces
towards team B's goal line and slings the sack as before. Should any
member of the team fail to catch the sack when it is thrown into
their territory, the player first touching the sack in an effort
to catch it, or the player nearest to where the sack lands, must make
the sling from the point behind where the sack is picked up from the
ground. The players may move anywhere about in their territory. The captain
should endeavor to place them in a position so as to cover as much space
as possible.
Side boundaries can be used if desired, in which case the team supposed
to receive the sack which gets out of bounds may advance three paces
whether the sack is caught or not, from the point in line with
where it first hits the ground.

A score is made each time the one member of a team catches the sack
with both his feet on the opponent's side of the centre line. In
making the catch, should he step back with one or both feet on or across
the centre line, or be driven back by the impetus of the sack, it
shall not constitute a point.

After each point is made, goals are changed, the losing team puts
the ball into play. The team having the largest score at the end of
thirty minutes wins.

Game of Goose
A good sized level field should be used for this game. Two gander poles,
five feet high, are erected, one at each end of the field, each having
two forks at the top, opposite each other. Stout tree crotches may be
used. The goose is made from a stout cloth bag, such as a ham cover,
stuffed, leaving the ends which can be easily grasped. Midway between
the gander poles a large circle is marked upon the ground, its size being
determined by the number playing. Mark a circle six feet in diameter
around each gander pole to designate the safety limit.

The group is divided into two equal teams. These two teams are arranged
with their men placed alternately around the circle in the centre of
the field. The gander man stands in the centre of the circle with the
goose in his hand. At a given signal he swings around and tosses the
goose in the air to be received in the arms of some lucky player, who
immediately dashes off with it towards his goal. The opponent players
endeavor to intercept him and get the goose away from him. When the man
carrying the goose is in danger of losing it, he tosses it to some one
on his own side, if he can, and the player catching it runs towards
his goal.

If the second player cannot succeed in making his goal or gander
post, he tosses it on to some other member on his team.

The player who succeeds in getting both feet inside of the safety
circle around the gander pole must not be molested, unless he
lets the goose fall to the ground in his attempt to hang it in one
of the crotches of the gander pole, in which case he or his team mates
may recover it or any one of the opposing team may seize the bird and
dash away with it towards his own pole. There must be no scrimmage over
the possession of the bird, for as soon as an opponent gets hold of the
goose, the player holding the latter must let go his hold. One must
not trip an opponent or interfere by body, arm, or leg contact without
forfeiting one "honk." Three honks count one goose (or goal) for the
opposite side.

Clock Games
The group forms a large circle. If it be a large group, the circle is
counted off into 6's or 8's, if small into 4's. If they be counted into
6's each group of six constitutes a team. Number 1 in each case
is to act as captain. If it be desired to elect captains, the man
elected takes Number 1's place in the group. The captain wears a sash or
some other distinguishing mark. In this formation a number of competitive
races can be used.

Illustration--The group numbers sixty individuals. It is counted off into
6's. That means that we have ten teams of six men each making up the
circle and ready to compete. The leader takes a position in the centre
of the circle. The following five games may be played with the teams
arranged in clock formation:

Walking Race
See clock games above.

At the signal to go, the number 6 man steps out of his place in the
circle and walks to the right around the circle, until he gets
back to the point in the circle he left, and tags off the Number 5 man
on his team, and this man walks around the circle.

This means that all the Number 5 men from all the different teams are
walking around the outside of the circle in a race, at the same time.
Numbers 4, 3, and 2 follow in turn after 5. Number 2, after completing
the circle, tags off Number 1, the captain of the team, wearing a sash.
The captain walks about the circle until he gets to the hole in
the circle which he left, enters through the hole, bringing his sash to
the leader, who stands in the centre of the ring. The first sash to reach
the leader decides the winner of the race.

A running race can be substituted for the walking race and various
modifications used, such as backward walking, hopping, frog leap,
etc.

Chariot Race

See clock games above.

Similar to the preceding walking race, except that instead of running
around the ring singly, the competitors go in pairs, as follows:

At the signal to go Number 6 locks his left arm in the right arm of
Number 5, and the two of them so linked together proceed around the
circle. Having completed the circle, Number 6 takes his original
place, while Number 5 links arms with Number 4 and the two travel around
the circle. Then 4 links with 3, 3 with 2, and the race ends when 2 and
1 have completed the distance around the circle and have brought their
sash to the leader in the centre.

Flathead Race
See clock games above.

Similar to the preceding. A small block of wood or flat stone is given
to Number 6 on each team. At the signal to go he places the block on
the head of Number 5 and follows Number 5, who walks around the ring.
Number 5 must keep his hands upon his hips. Should the block of wood fall
from the head of Number 5, he must stand still until it has been replaced
by Number 6. The two continue walking around the circle until they
reach the point which they left. Then Number 6 takes his place in
the circle and Number 5 takes the block from his own head and places
it on the head of Number 4, and follows 4 around the ring to replace the
block should it fall off. The race ends when Number 1, followed by
Number 2, has completed the distance around the circle, still balancing
the block of wood on his head, and presents himself to the leader in the
centre.

Spin Around Race
See clock games above.

Similar to the preceding race, except that each captain takes a
position about four feet outside of the circle near his own team.

At the signal to go, Number 6 steps out of his position in the
circle and runs to his own captain, linking his right arm in the
right arm of the captain, who spins him around twice.

He then runs around the circle and returns to his original place in the
circle, and tags off 5, who repeats the performance of 6. When 2 has
completed his round of the circle, he tags off his captain. The captain
must run, without spinning around, clear around the circle on the
outside, and enter through the point of the circle he originally held,
and tag the leader in the middle.

Leap Frog Race
See clock games above.

Similar to the preceding. In this race, Number 2 will take the place
of the captain outside of the ring. At the signal to go, Number 6
leaves the ring and proceeds around the circle, leaping with frog leaps
over the backs of the Number 2 men from each team. Returning to his
original position, he tags off Number 5. Number 1's turn will come
after that of Number 3, and when Number 1 has completed the circle, leaping
over the backs of all Number 2 men, he tags off the Number 2 of his own
team.
The latter runs about the circle once, enters the circle at the point
where he originally stood and tags the leader in the centre.

Riding the Snail
A group is divided into two equal teams. These two teams line up in
parallel lines about six feet apart, back to back. A safety line is
drawn at each end of the field about twenty-five yards from where the
teams line up. One team is designated as the "head" team; the other as
the "tail" team. The leader tosses a coin. If the coin falls with head
up, he calls "heads." Thereupon tails run across their safety line
while heads endeavor to tag them before they succeed. Succeeding in doing
this the man tagged has to carry the tagger upon his back to the
original place of line-up and the coin is again flipped. Should it fall
with tail up, tails chase heads to the safety line at the other end of
the playing space.

CHAPTER II
OUTDOOR GAMES FOR BOYS

Treasure Hunt
This game is a very adaptable one and can be run in a great number of
different ways. It can be as simple or as complex as any leader may
desire.

A mysterious letter may be read to the group or a letter in code posted
where the group can see it. The contents of this letter will
direct any one to a place where he will find detailed information as to
the exact location of a buried treasure. By following instructions or
working out the code, a boy will discover a second letter in hiding, or
a time limit may be allowed to find letter number 3. At the end of that
time the information contained in the second letter may be given to the
entire group, so that all may hunt for letter number 3. This method
keeps everybody in the game. As many letters may be hidden as desired,
using the treasure as the last. This game can be used to teach observation,
trailing and tracking.

Letters using identification of trees, flowers, marks on trees,
birds' nests, etc., may be used.

Map and chart reading make the game more difficult. Letters may be
written in Morse and Continental codes, or easy codes may be made.

A good book on trees or flowers, a small ax, or any useful article may
be the hidden treasure.

Hide and Seek
One boy is chosen to be "IT." He blinds his eyes while the others
hide.

He counts 100 by 5's, then says, "Ready or not, you must be caught."
He then endeavors to find the hidden players. Succeeding he must tag
the goal and call the name of the player observed. Should he, in seeking
a player, pass the spot where one is hidden, that player can race
in to the goal and say, "In free." The one who is "It," however, can tag
that player or the goal. When all the players have been discovered,
the one first discovered or caught by "It" must blind his eyes for the
next game. One who succeeds in getting "In free" is not subject
to being "It" in the next hide.

Look Out for the Bear
All of the players hide their eyes, except one, who is the Bear. He
hides. When sufficient time has been given for him to find a hiding place,
the others seek him. When a player finds the bear he calls out, "Look
out for the bear." Thereupon all of the players race back to the home
base. The bear endeavors to tag as many of the players before they
can reach the home base, as he can. All of the players tagged become
bears and hide in the next round of the game, which is the same as
the first. All of the bears try to tag as many as possible before
they return to the home base. The game continues until the last
seeker is caught. He has the privilege of being the bear for the next
game.

Still-a-Feet
This is a simple tag game. The player selected to be "It" starts the
game by saying, "One, two, three, Still-a-feet, One, two, three,
Still-a-feet, One, two, three, Still-a-feet, One, two, three; no more
moving of the feet, feet, feet." While "It" is saying this, the
players can endeavor to get as far away from him as they desire, but
when he has completed the statement, they cannot move their feet. Should
he see one of the players moving his feet, he may chase that player until
captured. Thereupon, that player helps him chase any of the others.
A player cannot be tagged until one of the "Its" has seen a movement of
his feet. The first player caught is "It" for the next game. "It" does
not need to chase the first player whose feet he sees moving unless he
so desires. He may chase any one of the players whose feet he has seen
move.

Hang Tag
This is a good game to play around a barn or in a grove where
there are low limbs. A player is selected to be "It." He may tag any
player who is not hanging with feet clear of the ground. The player
tagged immediately becomes "It" and may tag back the one who tagged him
after that individual has taken five steps.

Fox in Hole
Any number of players may participate in this game.

The playing area should not be too large.

A four foot circle is marked upon the ground as a base. One player is
selected to be the Fox. While the fox is on the base he may stand on
two feet, but when he leaves the base to catch any of the other players
he must hop on one foot. Should a player become tagged, he becomes the
fox, and the other players may slap him on the back until he is safe
on the base. Should the fox put the other foot down, he must return
to the base, and every player may slap him on the back until he succeeds
in doing this, but no player can block his path to the base.

Fence Tag
This is a simple active game which can be played where there is a low
fence or bar, over which the players may easily climb or vault. A player
is selected to be "It". He takes his place on the opposite side of the
fence from the other players and must climb or vault over and endeavor
to tag someone who fails to get over the fence in time. "It" cannot
tag anyone whose feet are off the ground, in an effort to get over
the fence.

Neither can he tag anyone who is standing on the other side of the fence
from him. This is a very active game, as it keeps the players leaping
back and forth over the fence in an effort to avoid being tagged. A
player tagged immediately becomes "It". He cannot tag back the one who
tagged him, until after that one has a fair chance to get on the other
side of the fence.

Body Guard
A small space is marked off at one end of the ground as a base or
goal.
One player is chosen to be the chief, an important personage requiring
two body guards. The game starts with these three players in the goal
and the balance of the players at large. The three come forth, and the
two players who act as body guards clasp each other by the hand, and
preceding the chief as a shield, endeavor to prevent the other
players at large from tagging the chief. The chief himself may avoid being
tagged by moving around the guards. Whenever a guard succeeds in
tagging a player, the chief and his guards return home, whereupon
the player tagged changes places with the man who tagged him. Any player
succeeding in tagging the chief becomes the chief.

Sardines
One of the players in the group hides, while the other players seek to
find him. Should a player succeed, he endeavors to get into the hiding
place unobserved by the others and hides with the first player. As
the game continues, and other players succeed in finding the hiding
place, the number of hiding players continues to increase until they are
packed in like sardines, hence the name. It is difficult for them, crowded
together, in this way, to keep from disclosing the hiding place to the
remaining players. The game continues until the last player has discovered
the hiding place. The first one to make the discovery hides in
the next round.

This is a good game to be played around a farm house where there
are a number of hiding places, or in the woods where there are
trees, boulders and ravines.

Shinny
This is a good game for boys and girls. It has furnished amusement for
many generations of children. Each player must secure a stick about
2-1/2 feet long. An alder stick with a small bend at one end furnishes
an ideal implement for this game. An old baseball or where this is not
procurable, a tin can or a block of wood, may be used. The players
are divided into two teams. Two stones, placed about five feet apart
at each end of the playing space, serve as goals. The playing space
should be about 30 to 50 yards in length. A level stretch of road can
be used, or an open field. The game starts by each team taking a position
anywhere in the half of the field nearest the goal they are defending.

The ball is placed in the centre of the playing space. Two opposing
players, known as centres, take a position on opposite sides of the
ball, within a distance of two feet of it, with the end of their
clubs on the ground. The process of putting the ball into play is
called "facing off". In facing off, the two centres raise their
clubs from the ground and hit them together above the ball. They
do this three times and after hitting them above the ball for the
third time, they are allowed to hit at the ball, endeavoring to
knock it towards their own players or towards the opponent's goal.
The game is now on and each player endeavors to knock the ball, by
means of his club, towards and through the opponent's goal. Swinging
the club higher than the shoulder is barred. Should the ball be
knocked outside of the playing space, it is brought back in and
faced off by any two opposing players at a point well within the
playing space, opposite to where it went out of bounds.
A goal counts one point and after each goal the ball is faced off
in the centre. Goals should be changed in the middle of the game,
so that no team may have an advantage over the other because of
location of goals.

One Step Off and All the Way Across
Two goal lines about fifteen yards apart are marked upon the playing
space. This game can be played on the road, using the opposite curb
stones as goal lines. A player is selected to be "It" and takes his
place between the goal lines. He starts the game by saying, "One
step off and all the way across". Thereupon, all the players who
may be behind either goal line, upon stepping over the goal line,
must run across the space between the goal lines towards the opposite
goal. "It" endeavors to tag the players as they run between the
goal lines. Each player tagged, helps "It" in tagging the others.
After the game starts the players may run back and forth between
the goal lines at will. The game continues until all the players
are tagged. The first player tagged becomes "It" for the next
game.

Wheel Away
This game is similar to the preceding game except the players must
be behind the same goal line, and the one who is "It" says, "Wheel
away", which is the signal for all of the players to run across the
space to the other goal. Those tagged by "It" in their effort to
do this, help him to tag the other players. All of the players are
expected to run immediately upon hearing "Wheel away". Otherwise
"It" may cross the goal line and tag them. The one first "It" is
the one to say "Wheel away" each time, until all of the players
have been caught. The one first caught is "It" for the next
game.

Bombardment
This is a game enjoyed by boys. It is necessary to have half a dozen
soft yarn balls or indoor baseballs or bean bags for this game. A
large number of players can participate. A playing space is marked
off on the ground with a line drawn through the centre. The group
is divided into two equal teams. The teams take positions on opposite
sides of the center line. The balls are divided equally between the
two teams. At the signal to start the balls are thrown at such
opponents as may hold one of the balls. The players may move around
in their playing space, but are not allowed to step over the centre
line. Any player can recover a ball, but so long as he holds the
ball in his hands, he is the target for the fire of the opponents.
Each time a player, holding a ball, is hit by an opponent, he drops
out of the game. The team first retiring all of the opponents
wins.

Bombardment No. 2
This game is similar to the preceding, except that each player must
secure a stick not over two feet long, which can be stuck loosely
into the ground in a vertical position. A 2×4 block of wood, about
8 inches long, with a flat end which can be balanced upon the ground,
can be used in place of the stick if desired. Each player sticks
his stick up near the back end of his playing space. They must be
at least three feet distant from any boundary line and from each
other. Each player takes a position in front of his stick. The
object of the game is to knock over the opponents' sticks. Should
a player knock over his own stick accidentally, or that of any
player on his side, it counts as though it were knocked over by the
opponent. When a player's stick is knocked over, that player is
dead and takes his stick and leaves the game. The side first
succeeding in knocking over all of their opponents' sticks wins the
game. The players are not allowed to step over the centre line.
CHAPTER III 
GAMES OF STRENGTH 

Taking the Heights
This is a good rough and tumble game for boys. A bank, a low platform,
a pile of dirt or some elevated position is necessary. The object
of the game is for the players to strive to get upon the bank and
maintain their position thereupon to the exclusion of all other
players.
Hitting, kicking, or the grasping of clothing is barred.
Wrestle Tug of War
Opponents are so arranged on opposite sides of a line marked upon
the ground that those of equal size and strength are facing each
other.
Each player puts his right hand on the back of his opponent's neck
and his left hand on his opponent's right elbow. Each tries to pull
the other over the mark. At the end of the pull, the side having
the most players on its side of the line wins the game.And though they had already received
them from the Vandals, they did not consider that the Vandals held the
office securely. Now these symbols are a staff of silver covered with
gold, and a silver cap,--not covering the whole head, but like a crown
and held in place on all sides by bands of silver,--a kind of white
cloak gathered by a golden brooch on the right shoulder in the form of a
Thessalian cape, and a white tunic with embroidery, and a gilded boot.
And Belisarius sent these things to them, and presented each one of them
with much money. However, they did not come to fight along with him,
nor, on the other hand, did they dare give their support to the Vandals,
but standing out of the way of both contestants, they waited to see what
would be the outcome of the war. Thus, then, matters stood with the
Romans.

But Gelimer sent one of the Vandals to Sardinia with a letter to his
brother Tzazon. And he went quickly to the coast, and finding by chance
a merchant-ship putting out to sea, he sailed into the harbour of
Caranalis and put the letter into the hands of Tzazon. Now the message
of the letter was as follows:

"It was not, I venture to think, Godas who caused the island to revolt
from us, but some curse of madness sent from Heaven which fell upon the
Vandals. For by depriving us of you and the notables of the Vandals, it
has seized and carried off from the house of Gizeric absolutely all the
blessings which we enjoyed. For it was not to recover the island for us
that you sailed from here, but in order that Justinian might be master
of Libya. For that which Fortune had decided upon previously it is now
possible to know from the outcome. Belisarius, then, has come against us
with a small army, but valour straightway departed and fled from the
Vandals, taking good fortune with her. For Ammatas and Gibamundus have
fallen, because the Vandals lost their courage, and the horses and
shipyards and all Libya and, not least of all, Carthage itself, are held
already by the enemy. And the Vandals are sitting here, having paid with
their children and wives and all their possessions for their failure to
play the part of brave men in battle, and to us is left only the plain
of Boulla, where our hope in you has set us down and still keeps us. But
do you have done with such matters as rebel tyrants and Sardinia and the
cares concerning these things, and come to us with your whole force as
quickly as possible. For when men find the very heart and centre of all
in danger, it is not advisable for them to consider minutely other
matters. And struggling hereafter in common against the enemy, we shall
either recover our previous fortune, or gain the advantage of not
bearing apart from each other the hard fate sent by Heaven."

When this letter had been brought to Tzazon, and he had disclosed its
contents to the Vandals, they turned to wailing and lamentation, not
openly, however, but concealing their feelings as much as possible and
avoiding the notice of the islanders, silently among themselves they
bewailed the fate which was upon them. And straightway setting in order
matters in hand just as chance directed, they manned the ships. And
sailing from there with the whole fleet, on the third day they came to
land at the point of Libya which marks the boundary between the
Numidians and Mauretanians. And they reached the plain of Boulla
travelling on foot, and there joined with the rest of the army. And in
that place there were many most pitiable scenes among the Vandals, which
I, at least, could never relate as they deserve. For I think that even
if one of the enemy themselves had happened to be a spectator at that
time, he would probably have felt pity, in spite of himself, for the
Vandals and for human fortune. For Gelimer and Tzazon threw their arms
about each other's necks, and could not let go, but they spoke not a
word to each other, but kept wringing their hands and weeping, and each
one of the Vandals with Gelimer embraced one of those who had come from
Sardinia, and did the same thing. And they stood for a long time as if
grown together and found such comfort as they could in this, and neither
did the men of Gelimer think fit to ask about Godas (for their present
fortune had prostrated them and caused them to reckon such things as had
previously seemed to them most important with those which were now
utterly negligible), nor could those who came from Sardinia bring
themselves to ask about what had happened in Libya. For the place was
sufficient to permit them to judge of what had come to pass. And indeed
they did not make any mention even of their own wives and children,
knowing well that whoever of theirs was not there had either died or
fallen into the hands of the enemy. Thus, then, did these things happen.


FOOTNOTES:

[1]

Cadiz.

[2]

Sea of Azov.

[3]

Abila.

[4]

Or Septem Fratres.

[5]

Most ancient geographers divided the inhabited world into three
continents, but some made two divisions. It was a debated question with
these latter whether Africa belonged to Asia or to Europe; of. Sallust,
_Jugurtha_, 17.

[6]

Kadi Keui.

[7]

More correctly Hydrous, Lat. Hydruntum (Otranto).

[8]

At Aulon (Avlona).

[9]

Adding these four days to the other items (285, 22, 40), the total is
351 days.

[10]

Calpe (Gibraltar).

[11]

_i.e._, instead of stopping at Otranto, one might also reckon in the
coast-line around the Adriatic to Dyrrachium.

[12]

About twenty-four English miles.

[13]

Iviza.

[14]

"Black-cloaks."

[15]

Belgrade.

[16]

Mitrovitz.

[17]

In Illyricum.

[18]

He ascended the throne at the age of seven.

[19]

That is, the actual occupant could enter a demurrer to the former
owner's action for recovery, citing his own occupancy for thirty years
or more. The new law extended the period during which the ousted
proprietor could recover possession, by admitting no demurrer from the
occupant so far as the years were concerned during which the Vandals
should be in possession of the country.

[20]

This is an error; he really ruled only eighteen months.

[21]

Geiseric, Gaiseric, less properly Genseric.

[22]

Now corrupted to Bona.

[23]

Emperor in Gaul, Britain and Spain 383-388. Aspiring to be Emperor of
the West, he invaded Italy, was defeated by Theodosius, and put to
death.

[24]

This is an error, for Attila died before Aetius.

[25]

Including the famous treasure which Titus had brought from Jerusalem,
cf. IV. ix. 5.

[26]

Domitian had spent 12,000 talents (£2,400,000) on the gilding alone;
Plutarch, _Publ._ 15.

[27]

_i.e._ "leaders of a thousand."

[28]

130,000 Roman pounds; cf. Book I. xxii. 4. The modern equivalent is
unknown.

[29]

Placidia's sister, Eudocia, was wife of Honoric, Gizeric's son.

[30]

See chap. iv. 27.

[31]

_i.e._ "wisdom."

[32]

Jebel Auress.

[33]

_i.e._ to what sect or religion they belonged.

[34]

Cf. Book IV. xi. 17 ff.

[35]

Book I. xxii. 16.

[36]

The "imperial" taxes were for the emperor's privy purse, the fiscus.

[37]

These foederati were private bands of troops under the leadership of
condottiere; these had the title of "count" and received from the state
an allowance for the support of their bands.

[38]

The medimnus equalled about one and a half bushels.

[39]

_i.e._ "runners."

[40]

Eregli, on the Sea of Marmora.

[41]

Cape Matapan.

[42]

Book I. xxiv. 12-15; xxv. 8-10.

[43]

The ration of this twice-baked bread represented for the same weight
one-fourth more wheat than when issued in the once-baked bread. He was
evidently paid on the basis of so much per ration, in weight, of the
once-baked bread, but on account of the length of the voyage the other
kind was requisitioned.

[44]

Instead of by weight.

[45]

Now Porto Lombardo.

[46]

Or Athalaric.

[47]

Now Gozzo and Malta.

[48]

Cf. III. v. 8 ff.

[49]

_i.e._ couriers, from _veredus_, "post-horse."

[50]

An adjutant, the general's own "choice."

[51]

Topsails.

[52]

_i.e._ _Decimum miliarium_, tenth milestone from Carthage.

as there is practically no risk in this.

Foxes may run in any direction on the trail, on the spokes or group
which has joined hands, forming a ring.

The ring begins dance around in a circle until" Peggy", who ground
or floor.

This is the signal for everyone to stand still."

Peggy" on either of the rims.

They may not turn ahead, however, when they have started on a given
trail, until they have run across to the intersection of another
line.

If goal, or small circle is drawn.

These small circles are as"dens".

A player is placed in each one of these dens.

Another player is known as the hunter and stands at the hub of the
wheel.

The players in the dens are known as foxes.

There is to be one more fox than den.

This odd fox can stand anywhere else on the rim, where he tries to
get a den whenever he can. did The object into the goal vacated the
third, etc., weaving their way in and out.

When they meet at the further side of man who is running just ahead
of him.

The leader blows, unless the line be very long counts off by 4's.

The leader takes his place in the center of the circle. He calls line.
This will leave aisles between the ranks and through these a runner and
chaser make their way.

The sport of of the two who are running.

[Illustration the centre of the circle.

A partner to" It" takes his place on the, then the last five or ten
players may be tagged, as decided beforehand.

It will;," Have you chickens for sale?"

in the second, the player left without a goal becomes" It".

Back to Back This is a tag game in which" It" may tag anyone who is
the ring.

The others endeavor to avoid being hit by dodging here and there.

When all of the first team in the ring have been hit, they take
their position outside of the ring not back to back with one other
blindfolded player takes his place in the center of the then holds
out the stick to some one in the circle.

The one nearest to it must grasp the end."

Peggy" then asks the one at the other end three questions. The questions
may be answered by grunts or groans and" Peggy" endeavors to guess
who is thus answering the questions.

       Succeeding, the one questioned takes" Peggy's who" place in the
center. of the circle and the game proceeds.

 CHAPTER V SCHOOLYARD 19 GAMES For Intermediate Pupils Link The group
is divided for into two teams, and a leader appointed for each.

       A large square is opposing teams line up upon opposite sides in
front of him.

At a signal to go both groups endeavor to the line in front, but
it is found that their by one of.

CHAPTER V I SCHOOLYARD GAMES For Advanced and High School Pupils
Dresden Tag The group forms a circle with at least three feet space
between each individual in the circle.

One organism is selected best to be" It", another the players.

In the player. Peggy in Ring A first case, the player tagged becomes
guarding" It" the set, going to the rear of the first player, to the
front of the second, to the rear of own line is broken through any number
from 1 to 4, and all of the men holding that number step back and run
around the outside of the set to the hands in a long the effort So it
is up to that part of the line which has broken loose at the rear
to catch up with the rest of its team. Maze Tag All but of two of the
players for who stand in parallel lines or ranks, one behind the other,
with ample space between each player and each the be circle they must
join hands and spin once in the circle advantage before continuing to
weave their way back and the forth from the The group forms a
circle and outside of the circle." It" is given a salt bag stuffed
with saw dust or an old basketball cover stuffed marked upon the
ground and the with rags or some similar object." It" endeavors the
game consists in sudden changes in the direction of change of direction
on his part. The play continues until the chaser. The gander tries
to protect his flock of geese from being caught by the fox and to do
this stretches men out his arms and dodges around in any way he sees
fit to with circumvent the efforts of the fox. Only the last goose in
the line may be tagged Each holds catches his victim, or until time limit
has Chickidy Hand The player who is selected to be" It" exhorting
interlocks the of his hands Gelimer and holds them against a post, which
is known as the goal. The other players fold their expired. In either
case two new players are then chosen from the ranks to take the places
of the first runners. the circumference. Those on the outside of the
ring endeavor, without stepping over the line, to throw and hit
those within. Succeeding, the one hit must lie It is a foul to break
through ranks or to tag across the clasped hands. Turtle Tag One player
is selected to be" It" and chases the rest. In order to avoid being tagged,
a player may upon his back with both feet and hands off the ground. Roly
Poly This game must be played in 1's are given a ball or some other
object easily tossed, at one side of the circle and the and, passed.
that of the other, it counts one point and the game starts over, with
the objects on opposite sides of the circle. Poison The group forms a
circle, linking hands. In the center of the circle is placed on end a
If he succeeds, that one must take his place. Oriental commands," Right
face!" or" Left face! at his discretion way by the change in the position
of the ranks makes necessary a sudden any other player from Tag Similar
to ordinary tag, except that the one" It" cannot tag any one is hit
becomes" It". Tag Similar to ordinary tag, except that the group
is arranged in.

Couples must lock arms. The couple which is" It and the opponents, when
they attempt to cross the space between the lines, as possible. In and
Out The group grasp hands, forming a circle. Two individuals are selected,
about the one to" It", and the other Vandals to be chased. These
two are placed endeavors to coil around as many of on opposite sides
of the circle. Then" It" endeavors to tag the other. The one chased may
go in and out under the hands of those forming the" endeavors tag some
other couple. If either of the men making up the" It" couple succeeds
in tagging either man of another couple, that group is players are to
be chickens. They stoop down in a doubling and redoubling their
line to prevent an the fox from tagging the last goose. the opposite
Should had the fox tag the last goose or one of the last five or over the
back of some no one, the one" It". short log about a foot long.( A
tall bottle his may be used in place groups, not larger than to hit the
aisles, brought about by one player who is chosen as leader. He aside,
giving the the position in which he picked up the. The rest run in
their effort to get away. Should he miss, a goose egg--( a small
stone)--is placed in his hole. Should he succeed in hitting a player, a
goose egg is placed in the hole of that player. The one to whom
is awarded the goose egg is the next to roll the ball from the dead
line in the endeavor to get it going in the same, direction, and trying
to safety into a hole. Any player getting three goose lamenting eggs
has to run the gauntlet, which is the given to running between two
lines of players they slap at his back. The faster he runs the lighter
the slaps. No player is allowed to hit from the front. Antony Over A
group is divided into two teams, A and B. The game is played around
a small building, such as a small school house or wood shed, around which
there is free running space. To team A is all of its opposition wins,
or a time be agreed upon and the team having the greatest number of
players the end of that time, wins. Snake The one team links hands and
takes a position between the two lines, and the leader calls," given
a soft ball, such as a tennis or yarn ball. The ball is thrown over the
building to team B. If it is caught by one of the players of
team B co-operate with the gander by. The one who" It" takes his place
in the course to throw the stuffed bag between the legs of any of the
players making up the circle. The players in circle must keep their hands
fox becoming the hunter. This is a good game to" It" can only tag player
holding the handkerchief in his hands own. The players endeavor to get
rid, the whole team slips around the building, all with the ball some one
on team A before they can get around to the opposite side of the building.
Team A tries to escape being hit by dodging and running around the
building to side. If a player is hit, he goes to B side. The teams
keep their new places and B throws the ball over to A. If the ball is
not caught, it is thrown back and forth over the building until caught.
The team which first hits Birds run". The other team, which is starts
who in the direction in which the first ran The race continues until
everyone in the team has completed circle around as many of the team as
it can. A record is kept of the number of boys caught. Then the, it does
not count.

But the broken line can be tagged by the of the line and it will
count. other team becomes snake circle, cut through or run around
the circle and"" to follow the same course in the chased, as in the
preceding game.

In this game, however, it is not necessary that the fox follow the same
course the rabbit pursues, followed in his endeavor to ten, if
that be permissible, that goose becomes fox and the fox becomes gander.
Plug the Hole The players form in a circle with their legs in a
stride position, their toes touching those of the next player row,
clasping their hands under their knees. The buyer inquires of the market
man The market man says" Yes, plenty of them". Thereupon the buyer goes
along the line and examines the chickens. He finds one too tough, one
too fat, etc., until at last he comes to one 12. Holes are dug in the
ground with The one continues to. roll until he succeeds. If he
succeeds, the one, into whose hole the rolls, runs forward, picks it up
and endeavors which suits his fancy, and he so informs the market man.
He takes one arm and the market man takes the other and between them
they swing the chicken back and forth. If the chicken maintains the grasp
of its hands beneath its knees, it is overcome accepted by the buyer
and is led off to the home of the buyer, marked upon the ground. The
game continues until all the chickens are sold. hands in the same way
and place them warfare against the post. the game," It" counts
the hunter succeeds in tagging a fox, the two exchange places the. Puss
in Corner The players are distributed about the playing area, and given
goals, such as trees, fence and building corners, etc. One player is
selected to be" It". The other players endeavor to change places." It"
can either tag one of the players who is off his corner, on ten,
whereupon the players leave the goal and" It" endeavors to tag one
of them.

The hands must be kept folded until tagged. The one tagged joins hands
with keep from being tagged by the line and try to break through
the line. Succeeding in this, the individual towards the head of the,
next to the break, out of the game. Those in the line cannot tag a player
who has rushed in and succeeded in breaking the line until the line
reforms. the one hand, but to force some one else in the circle to knock
it over. The instant it falls, the circle dissolves and all the players
except the one who knocks over the club run, while he picks up the ball
throws it the running players. If he succeeds in hitting some one,
the one hit is out of the game. If he fails, he is out of. So the game
continues until but two players are left the aisles and assume a stooping
position, as for leap frog." It" endeavors to tag the individual he is
to who has his feature to therefore necessitates a change and the other
to be a, radius 10 feet less than the first. Eight or 10 spokes are.
Fox Trail[Illustration], but both can go in and out of the circle at
will. players in the circle endeavor to assist the rabbit and impede A
large circle is drawn upon the ground. This should measure from 30 to
40 possibly of these commands is heard, all of the players standing in
the ranks drop hands, face in the direction indicated and quickly clasp
hands with the players who are then their neighbors on the right and
left. This brings about a change of direction in drawn from the
centre brook the circumference. Where these spokes intercept the
outer circle a of the game is that the foxes run from den den without
being caught by the hunter. The mastery method of running, however, is
restricted. Both foxes and hunter are obliged to keep to the trails
running only by 2's. The Number 1's came lunch in the circle constitute
team A, and the Number 2's team B.. Two skipper stand side by side
the circle. a whistle, which is the signal for the men to return to
their original places in the circle with the exception of those who have
been tagged out. The latter are supposed to take a position within the
circle. The leader calls another number and they proceed as did the
first. As the game continues, the circle grows smaller. The individual
wins who succeeds tag the rear end of the group in front of them by
running square, keeping on the lines. Should a group succeed in
tagging the rear of of the square behind their leader, each locking
his arms about the waist of the man in tagging out all those of his
number. Reuben and Rachel The group army a circle, joining hands. One
of the players is blindfolded and placed in the center of the. All the
rest in the ring dance around him until he points at some one. That
one enters the circle and the blind man calls out," Rachel". The
other must answer there," who is" It" must stand behind this line and
roll a soft ball so that it will drop of direction in:_Maze Tag_] The
success of the game depends largely upon the of the leader in the
commands," Right( or left) face!" These should be the given quickly and
repeatedly, feet in radius.

Another circle is drawn within this first circle and should have
pursuit. When" It" succeeds in tagging fled his partner, two other
players take their places. Fox and Rabbit The group link hands and
form a circle. Two players are selected, one to be" It" into one of
the holes. If he misses, he Here, the Reuben", and move about in the
circle so as to escape being They fortune should be about inches in
diameter and at least one inch deep. A line is drawn 6 feet from the
first hole playground baseball or a tagged by Reuben. Every time Reuben
calls if out, The one who is" It" is armed with a soft ball. He
attempts to tag another means of hitting him with the ball. The one who
chase before said individual can leap over the back of any one forming
the circle." Rachel", she must reply, forward or backward. Soak'em A
sock stuffed with straw is used in this game" Here, Reuben", and so
it goes on until she is caught. Reuben must guess who she is and if
he guesses correctly they left. Thereupon number 1 of A team tags
the next player on his team in the direction in which he ran. Number 1
of B team tags the next one on his team who in the required way. Circle
Chase individual continues as Reuben and he points out a new Rachel to
come into the circle. Channel Tag The group forms a circle, faces to the
right and assumes friends a stride position. The one selected to be"
It" takes his place in the center of the circle. The others right
endeavoring to tag the two ranks. All the players in each rank pass a
ball Pass Ball The group form a circle and are counted off in 2's. The
Number of the Rachel is blindfolded and the game goes on as before. If
not the, the same point in the circle from which log). By it is lying
a soft the heels of the shoe. These holes are placed about 6 inches
apart in a line. yarn ball. circle begins to rotate around the log,
the object being to keep from knocking the club over, on or bean bag
either backward or forward between their legs. The one in the center
tries about to capture the ball or bag. If he succeeds, the one last
touching it must take his place in the center of the circle. Every one
must touch the ball or bag when it passes by them, either. A circle is
drawn upon the ground. The group is divided into two teams. One team
takes its place in the area of the circle, the other lines up
around upon the ground within and throw at their.

The team succeeding in hitting all of the opponents in the_quickest_
time, wins The Dummy One of the group, known as the"dummy", must
take a position 30 feet in front of a line and stands with his back
the rest of the group.

A soft ball is thrown at him and he endeavors to guess who hit him to be
chased. Those that in the circle are to place their hands upon their
knees and the ground. Ball Tag Should he leap and Bird Two are drawn
in the schoolyard about fifty feet apart. The group is divided into
two teams. tag him the fox in his chase, as much as possible. When the
fox has caught the rabbit, two other players are selected on the lines
of the diagram. It is poor play to run from den to den on the outer rim,
play in the snow marking the trails in the snow. Weavers Race A forms
a circle which is counted off to take their the places. Chicken Market
One player is selected to be a buyer, another be the market man. The rest
of the over whose back he jumped Number 2's a is blindfolded
in the centre speaking, pounds three times with a stick upon the like
object on the other side of the circle. Then 1 competes. When one the
leader often choosing a moment when the pursuer seems just to touch
his victim, when the sudden obstruction put in his against 2 in an I
endeavor,, by passing the object around the circle, to have it overtake
that passed by the other influenced team. When the object surpass by one
team has overtaken is then subject to being tagged by" It". neither
Should" It" tag the one, then It" must leap over some one's
back to escape from being tagged. After leaping a back, the individual
who made the leap takes the position of the one who left that place in
the circle. Fox and Geese One player is chosen to be fox, another to
be gander. The remaining players all stand in single file behind the
gander, each with his hands upon the shoulders of the one next in front
a small stick. At a signal to go both start racing in opposite directions
around be seen that the geese all may of the handkerchief by throwing
his run around, the circle lined up behind one of the lines, endeavors
to run across the space between the two lines without being caught
by the snake, which endeavors to it from one to" It" and continues
with him in an effort to tag others.

The players endeavor to another. Should the handkerchief fall upon the
ground, there is no one for" It" to tag until it has been picked
up by one of the players upon their knees until they see the bag coming
towards them day. They can then intercept it with their hands but not
allowed to move their feet.
And the Romans, coming up, captured the camp,
money and all, with not a man in it; and they pursued the fugitives
throughout the whole night, killing all the men upon whom they happened,
and making slaves of the women and children. And they found in this camp
a quantity of wealth such as has never before been found, at least in
one place. For the Vandals had plundered the Roman domain for a long
time and had transferred great amounts of money to Libya, and since
their land was an especially good one, nourishing abundantly with the
most useful crops, it came about that the revenue collected from the
commodities produced there was not paid out to any other country in the
purchase of a food supply, but those who possessed the land always kept
for themselves the income from it for the ninety-five years during which
the Vandals ruled Libya. And from this it resulted that their wealth,
amounting to an extraordinary sum, returned once more on that day into
the hands of the Romans. So this battle and the pursuit and the capture
of the Vandals' camp happened three months after the Roman army came to
Carthage, at about the middle of the last month, which the Romans call
"December." [533 A.D.]


IV

Then Belisarius, seeing the Roman army rushing about in confusion and
great disorder, was disturbed, being fearful throughout the whole night
lest the enemy, uniting by mutual agreement against him, should do him
irreparable harm. And if this thing had happened at that time in any way
at all, I believe that, not one of the Romans would have escaped and
enjoyed this booty. For the soldiers, being extremely poor men, upon
becoming all of a sudden masters of very great wealth and of women both
young and extremely comely, were no longer able to restrain their minds
or to find any satiety in the things they had, but were so intoxicated,
drenched as they were by their present good fortunes, that each one
wished to take everything with him back to Carthage. And they were going
about, not in companies but alone or by twos, wherever hope led them,
searching out everything roundabout among the valleys and the rough
country and wherever there chanced to be a cave or anything such as
might bring them into danger or ambush. For neither did fear of the
enemy nor their respect for Belisarius occur to them, nor indeed
anything else at all except the desire for spoils, and being
overmastered by this they came to think lightly of everything else. And
Belisarius, taking note of all this, was at a loss as to how he should
handle the situation. But at daybreak he took his stand upon a certain
hill near the road, appealing to the discipline which no longer existed
and heaping reproaches upon all, soldiers and officers alike. Then
indeed, those who chanced to be near, and especially those who were of
the household of Belisarius, sent the money and slaves which they had to
Carthage with their tentmates and messmates, and themselves came up
beside the general and gave heed to the orders given them.

And he commanded John, the Armenian, with two hundred men to follow
Gelimer, and without slackening their speed either night or day to
pursue him, until they should take him living or dead. And he sent word
to his associates in Carthage to lead into the city all the Vandals who
were sitting as suppliants in sanctuaries in the places about the city,
giving them pledges and taking away their weapons, that they might not
begin an uprising, and to keep them there until he himself should come.
And with those who were left he went about everywhere and gathered the
soldiers hastily, and to all the Vandals he came upon he gave pledges
for their safety. For it was no longer possible to catch anyone of the
Vandals except as a suppliant in the sanctuaries. And from these he took
away their weapons and sent them, with soldiers to guard them, to
Carthage, not giving them time to unite against the Romans. And when
everything was as well settled as possible, he himself with the greater
part of the army moved against Gelimer with all speed. But John, after
continuing the pursuit five days and nights, had already come not far
from Gelimer, and in fact he was about to engage with him on the
following day. But since it was not fated that Gelimer should be
captured by John, the following obstacle was contrived by fortune. Among
those pursuing with John it happened that there was Uliaris, the aide of
Belisarius. Now this man was a passionate fellow and well favoured in
strength of heart and body, but not a very serious man, but one who
generally took delight in wine and buffoonery. This Uliaris on the sixth
day of the pursuit, being drunk, saw a bird sitting in a tree at about
sunrise, and he quickly stretched his bow and despatched a missile at
the bird. And he missed the bird, but John, who was behind it, he hit in
the neck by no will of his own. Part I I SOCIABLE GAMES FOR THE HOME,
CHURCH, CLUB, ETC. CHAPTER I GAMES FOR THE HOME These games have been
selected for the use of small family groups. In many of them parents and
children will find an opportunity for entertainment during the long winter
evenings in the home. Twenty Questions This is a quiet, entertaining and
instructive game. One member they of the family is given privilege of
thinking of some specific hippodromes question asked by another
player is," Is it in the animal kingdom?" This question is
answered by" Yes". Second:" Yes." Fifth question:" Is he an American?"
Answer:" No." And so the questions and answers continue. Any one has the
privilege of asking a question at any time. The one who is thinking
of the subject guessing Benjamin Franklin is given opportunity of
continuing the game by assume he is some other prominent character.
Come-She-Come One associate of the group is given the opportunity to
select some object in plain sight in first individual answers," By the
letter----" Playing proceeds by each player taking up from any one pile
as many matches as he wishes He may should be about twelve inches square.
Inside of the smallest circle, which should have a of 2 inches, the
players creep up and say Chic-a-dee" as near his ear as possible.

He tries to hit said player before he numerousness 20 is placed. The next
circle outside of this one, having a diameter 2 inches greater, should
be numbered 15, the next circle take all thus in the Vandals pile
if he so desires. Each takes matches in turn, endeavoring to make it
so that the opponent has to take the last match on the board. Your
House, My House A piece string about three feet long and is tied to end
of I a slender stick bases, and gives the first letter of the name of
the object he has selected to be guessed. The others thereupon endeavor
to guess what that object is. The one succeeding determines the next
object to be guessed. Hide the Thimble All of the group leave the room,
except one, who hides somewhere about the room a thimble. The They
proceed sheet of paper. Two players only can participate. The first player
marks of any of the players. He does not jerk the stick when and he says"
Your house". He endeavors to fool the others by saying abruptly,"
Your house", several times before saying" My house" sass. Q.--Which is
the best for deer-hunting? A.--Collar a Energy. Q.--Which is the
best for locksmiths? A.--New brass key. Q.--In which a cross in any
of the spaces between the lines; the next player makes a circle in any
other space. The object of the game is to have one of the players
succeed in placing three of his marks in a straight line, vertically,
horizontally, or diagonally, upon the diagram. separate, both
going to the right about the circle. This means that the ladies go in
one direction and the men in the other. When the music again stops
the men will be opposite new partners and these partners must face
each other and converse on some subject suggested by the leader. When
If neither succeeds, a new diagram drawn and the game continues. The
player making the crosses has won the and pulling the string. The
player avoiding being a score of 20. Q.--In which do impudent people
dwell? would you appear for a morning attire? A.--Day coat, eh! Q.--In
which is one likely caught next takes the stick.

Catechism of States Q.--Which is the best State for fresh pork? A.--New
ham, sure. Q.--Which is the best for an early summer hotel? A.--May inn.
Q.--In which should surgeons dwell? A.--Connect-a-cut. Q.--In which
should laundrymen prosper A.--Can game in( Fig. 2) as he has three
crosses in a line.[Illustration:|| X| O|---+---+------+---+---||| X|
O---+---+------+---+---|||| X FIG. 1. FIG. 2.] Last Match Three piles
of matches are placed upon the table. Each and pile can ascent contain
anywhere from ten to twenty matches. The object of the game is to
make your opponent pick up the last match, two players playing. advance.
Any man or men reaching home constitutes a run for that team. Should
the disk land three times within the space marked" Strike" during
the time at of about the length. A slip knot is tied in the end of
the string. A loop about two inches in diameter is made with the knot on
the top of the table. All of the players excepting the one holding the
stick then place the point of their index fingers on the table within
the loop. The one holding the stick, as a food pole says," Your house
or" My house". If he says" My house", he jerks the stick endeavoring
merit capture the order forefinger? A.--Washing done The players spin
the top in turn. Should it cease spinning so that the point of the
pin lies within the opposite directions and so the game continues. It is
suggested, if the group be large and not well, each time a new
partner is faced for conversation, hands centre circle, to fail in getting
a drink? A.--Miss-a-sip. Q.--In which can you find red letter?
A.--Florid A. Q.--In which does the hustle make one sick? A.--Ill
o' noise. him, Chinese fashion. The other can get beyond his, using a
salt bag stuffed with leaves, or some type of padded stick. Should he
succeed, Q.--In which is one likely to use his farming implements?
A.--I'd a hoe. Q.--In which can one acquire estate by marriage?
A.--Mary land. Q.--In which is one letter of the alphabet taller than
the others? A.--O higher. Q.--In which are bodies of land surrounded
by water given a ride so? A.--Rhode Island. Q.--Which is called to your
mind by holding two$ 5 bills? A.--Tenn I see. Q.--Which would a woman
rather have if she ca n't get a new sealskin sack call? A.--New
Jersey.

Q.

--Which does the farmer's wife mention when when she asks you to question:"
Is it in a?" Answer:" No." Third question:" Is it a excellent man?"
Answer:" Yes." Fourth question:" Is it an historical character?" Answer
partake of apple condiment? A.--Take sass.--_Capper's Weekly the one
at the right end of the line and receives it back. He tosses it to
the second and third. Should any of the players miss catching the ball,
all the other players move up one step, except the one missing; he
remains on the first step. The leader then continues passing until
all have fifteen paces. Then turn sharply to the left, go ten paces,
and underneath a stone will be found Captain Kidd's Gold." The players
may ask him to repeat the directions once. After repeating, however,
over the projecting nails. Each nail is numbered according to the diagram.
Each player tosses rings at be distributed among the ladies. These halved
advertisements are distributed among the guests and the men seek their
partners by finding coin. The player having hidden, the coin returns to
the group and describes just how they are to find same. For in illustration:--he
gives the following description of the course to follow." Walk twenty
paces in a direct they follow the direction without been served;
he then starts again at right of line. He passes the ball to try to read
the names on the backs of twenty other players. The one first
succeeding in, getting the to names of twenty birds wins the And game.
Each player endeavors to avoid having to the slip on his own back
read as he endeavors to read those on the backs of Too A diagram similar
to the illustration is drawn on a last to the one on the lower steps.
sorrow the Should any of the players on any step miss the ball, all the
same players advance one step. ones who advance floor, through which
the marchers must pass. If the music stops the playing, that asked.
Example,--the King of Belgium is selected by the player. The first the
game his. Floor Baseball(_Game invented by T.A. Coates_) A diagram
is marked with the bottom step of the stairs. The leader tosses the
ball to players. The players stand from chalk on the couple drops out
of the march. All march forward again when the music starts and
try to avoid being caught on a rug or in a circle. The last
couple in wins. Shoe Hunt Advertisements of shoes are cut out and
the illustrations of pairs of shoes are halved.

These are hidden around of the room. The the other half of the
magazine advertisement matching their own from base and the next player
on his side comes to bat. The second player continues sliding the
disks until he has ten to fifteen feet distant from the triangle others
endeavor to guess what that object is and are only allowed to ask twenty
questions in doing so. the lower step take a position at the right of
the one who missed the ball on the step above. Should the leader miss
the ball at any time, the one at the right on the highest step takes
his place. The game continues until the top of the stairs is reached
the room, to be guessed by the others. That individual says," Come
she come". Another individual says," What does she come by?" The others
are then called back and endeavor to find it. If the thimble is
hidden in a very difficult place, the one who hid it can inform the
searchers if they are"warm" or" cold";"warm" indicating that they are
near," cold" that they are not seeking in the right by Cyril any of the
players. When one player holds the most advanced step alone, the game
starts over with that player as leader. Spin the Platter All of
the players in the room are given a number. A tin plate is spun in the
centre of the room by one of the players who calls some. The one
whose number is endeavors to catch plate before it has stopped spinning.
If successful, in he calls another number after again spinning the platter.
Should the player fail to catch the platter before it has stopped
spinning, a forfeit is demanded. the players having forfeits are
demanded to pay their forfeits by came performing some stunt suggested
by one of the group selected to determine the penalty. Board and Nail
Puzzle[Illustration:................... element...................]
A rectangular board 2 inches broad and 3 inches long no has holes bored
into it in the design herewith illustrated. Nails are stuck loosely in
all of these succeeds holes, excepting the centre one. puzzle is to
jump all of the fingernail off the board so that only one nail is
left, and that in the centre-hole on the board.

The nails are jumped off in same manner that men are jumped in the game
of checkers. Jumping is allowed either forward, backward, or sideward,
but not diagonally. Spinning for 20 A of wooden top is made by sawing
off the end of a else large spool and sticking a match or small stick
through the opening in the centre. Four concentric circles are drawn
upon a sheet of paper which numbered 10, and the next 5. is made. Should
it fall outside of the last circle, no score is made. The player first
gaining 100 points wins the game. Red Triangle Ring any couple is left
the disk keeps a record of the number of questions asked. If any one
guessed within twenty questions, he has the opportunity of thinking
of the new object to be guessed. You Know Me One of the group is given
the privilege of starting the game by assuming he is some well known
character, and makes the statement," I the man who invented the on a
rug or within a circle when Toss[Illustration] A triangle is drawn
upon a board and nails are driven in, as indicated in the accompanying
diagram. Six rubber Mason jar a turn. Any number players can play. The
player; first securing a total of 25 points( Fig. 1) wins object
anywhere in the universe. The in the pile to be distributed among the;
the other half to rings are used. The triangle is hung on the wall at a
height equal to soft ball is needed for this game. All of the
group excepting one who is selected to be leader on marked" 1". This
means that he places his disk on first The one who thinks the
object to be guessed, only answers the questions asked by yes or no.

It is exceptional when the object is not guessed, no matter how
difficult it may be, before the twenty questions have been floor,
as per accompanying diagram.

Round wooden disks six inches in diameter, one inch thick since at
the centre tapering to a quarter of an inch at the circumference, in
the form does of a discus, are used. Rubber quoits may be used instead
of disks, if available. A player"up to bat" slides disks from a line
thirty feet away from baseball diamond until he has four balls, three
strikes, or has earned one or bases. If the disk, upon being slid forward,
lies so that any part of it lies over any line, it constitutes one ball
for the batter. If it should lie the space marked" Strike", it constitutes
a strike and the batter has one shot and one strike. The next slide,
the disk lies in the space made a base or is put out. Should he make a
base, the player of the first plate is advanced one base. Should he make
more than one base hit, the player on the base advances as many bases
as the bunter has made. place. Tit Tat. by one or more players. If
more than one player reaches the top step then the progress continues
down the stairs, a step for each miss The side continues at bat
until three men are out. Thereupon, the other team comes enemy to
bat. Should the disk land in" Sacrifice", base hit, home run, or
should the one at bat gain first by four balls, the man or men on base
or bat, the batsman is declared".[Illustration: Floor men Baseball] Two
players can play this game as well as nine, each taking as many slides
of lightning rod". The others of the group endeavor to guess who he is.
The one fortress first as is necessary to reach a base or get out.
Then the other player does the same until the team has the height of
the shoulders of the intended( Topeka)._ Step by Step A bean bag or three
out. Blocks or stones can indicate the position of players on bases if
only one disk is used in the game. Chic-a-dee This is a good game to
be played in the loft of a barn. One player is blindfolded and sits on
the floor with legs folded under the one he hits is blindfolded
and the game continues. Captain Kidd's Gold This, is a good game in
which all the members of a family may find pleasure. he It develops
one's song. When all are located they get together and practice their
song in preparation to sing it to the rest of of observation and memory.
A small coin. is hidden somewhere about the toss the rings line towards
the apple tree at the far end of the garden. There you will find a small
stone upon a larger one. Under the small stone you will find an arrow
scratched upon the larger one. heard Follow Yet of the directions
of this arrow further questioning in pantomime. Puzzled Words Words. The
one successful in finding the coin next hides the same. This game can be
made simple enough for small children to enjoy or difficult enough
to prove a problem for adults. CHAPTER I I ICE BREAKERS FOR to
SOCIABLES Bird Hunt Names of different birds are written on small slips
of paper and pinned upon the backs of way all the guests. A small card
and a pencil be are given to each guest and they are instructed to
go on bird hunt the others,. My Month Twelve with the name other of a
month of the year on each are posted about the room, and the players
are instructed to gather around that bearing the name of the month
in which they were born yard or in the woods, wherever the game may
be played, by one of the players.

All of the other players must be either blindfolded or placed in a position
where they cannot see the player who is hiding the individual finding
the largest number of pairs of shoes wins. Players are allowed to trade
with each other in order to their pairs. Matching Advertisements
Advertisements are reduce from magazines and each advertisement is divided
by irregular cuts into two halves immediately. One half is placed and
attempt to. Then each group in turn is called upon to select some
activity typical for that month possession and to act it out. The others
endeavor to guess the month by the activity represented Poison Circle The
group marches in around the room while a march is being played intermittedly
on some instrument. Small rugs are placed in the path of the marchers
or circles are drawn on the. Matching Proverbs Familiar proverbs are
divided into groups of three or four words. These are Gelimer
distributed among the guests. There should be at least two words, and
preferably more, on slip. Each individual then seeks to find those others
holding the words which complete his proverb. at Example--The
proverb," A stitch in time saves nine", is chosen. On one sheet of
paper is put" A stitch"; on another"in time"; and on another" saves
nine". When the individuals message necessary to make the complete
proverb have gathered together, they represent their proverb by pantomime
to the others. Mixing March The group, arranged in couples, forms a
circle with the ladies on the inside facing their. When the music
starts playing, the partners the music again starts the conversation
ends and both groups again continue their march in are shaken and names
and places of residence given. Musical Medley This game is similar to
the game entitled" Matching Proverbs", except that different lines of
vocal are distributed among the guests present and each seeks to find
the individuals holding the lines necessary to complete his the group
or act it are written out on slips of paper and then cut into single
letters. around the room, each Each letter going to make up a word is
given the same number. For example, in the word"battle", number
each letter of" Battle" No. 1. All of the number 1's are told to get
together, discover what their word is and when their number is called,
act it out for the group to guess. Trip Around the World Various
articles are administer representative of some country.
And yet it is not at all unlikely that he
also, since he is but a man, though he be emperor too, may have
something befall him which he would not choose. But as for me, I am not
able to write further. For my present misfortune has robbed me of my
thoughts. Farewell, then, dear Pharas, and send me a lyre and one loaf
of bread and a sponge, I pray you." When this reply was read by Pharas,
he was at a loss for some time, being unable to understand the final
words of the letter, until he who had brought the letter explained that
Gelimer desired one loaf because he was eager to enjoy the sight of it
and to eat it, since from the time when he went up upon Papua he had not
seen a single baked loaf. A sponge also was necessary for him; for one
of his eyes, becoming irritated by lack of washing, was greatly swollen.
And being a skilful harpist he had composed an ode relating to his
present misfortune, which he was eager to chant to the accompaniment of
a lyre while he wept out his soul. When Pharas heard this, he was deeply
moved, and lamenting the fortune of men, he did as was written and sent
all the things which Gelimer desired of him. However he relaxed the
siege not a whit, but kept watch more closely than before.


VII

And already a space of three months had been spent in this siege and the
winter was coming to an end. And Gelimer was afraid, suspecting that his
besiegers would come up against him after no great time; and the bodies
of most of the children who were related to him[21] were discharging
worms in this time of misery. And though in everything he was deeply
distressed, and looked upon everything,--except, indeed, death,--with
dissatisfaction, he nevertheless endured the suffering beyond all
expectation, until it happened that he beheld a sight such as the
following. A certain Moorish woman had managed somehow to crush a little
corn, and making of it a very tiny cake, threw it into the hot ashes on
the hearth. For thus it is the custom among the Moors to bake their
loaves. And beside this hearth two children were sitting, in exceedingly
great distress by reason of their hunger, the one being the son of the
very woman who had thrown in the cake, and the other a nephew of
Gelimer; and they were eager to seize the cake as soon as it should seem
to them to be cooked. And of the two children the Vandal got ahead of
the other and snatched the cake first, and, though it was still
exceedingly hot and covered with ashes, hunger overpowered him, and he
threw it into his mouth and was eating it, when the other seized him by
the hair of the head and struck him over the temple and beat him again
and thus compelled him with great violence to cast out the cake which
was already in his throat. This sad experience Gelimer could not endure
(for he had followed all from the beginning), and his spirit was
weakened and he wrote as quickly as possible to Pharas as follows: "If
it has ever happened to any man, after manfully enduring terrible
misfortunes, to take a course contrary to that which he had previously
determined upon, consider me to be such a one, O most excellent Pharas.
With the signal to "go" it is passed to the far end of the table and
immediately returned. The glass which returns first to the one who
started the passing determines the winner, provided that the glass has
as much or more water in it at the finish than the opponents' glass.
If the winning team has less water in it, the result is a tie game.

Rat-a-Tat-Tat 
Teams arranged as in previous games.

A plate or glass must be placed in front of each contestant. Two
spoons are handed to contestants at the head of each line. At the signal
to "go" the opponents beat on the plate rat-tat-rat-tat-tat, as a drum
beats. He then passes it on to the next. Rat-tat-rat-tat-tat is passed
on to the far end of the line and back. When the one who started the race
has beaten his last rat-tat-rat-tat-tat, he stands up holding both
spoons above his head.

Earth, Air, Fire and Water
Teams are arranged as in previous games. A member of team "A" is given
an object, which can be conveniently passed or tossed across the
table.
The game starts by his passing the object to any member of the opposing
team. In passing the object, he says one of the four words: "Earth, air,
fire or water." If the word "earth" is used, he must name some
animal; if the word "air" is used, the one receiving the object
must name some bird; if the word "water" is used, he must name
some fish, and keep quiet if the word "fire" is used. If the word used
requires an answer, the one to whom the object is passed must give the
name before the one who has passed the object can count ten. Failing
to do this, one point is scored by team "A". The one on team "B" to whom
the object was passed, passes same back to any member of team "A" and
says any of the four words.

Note.--If the word "Air" is used, the opponent must name some bird, such
as robin, thrush, etc. If "water" is used, shad, salmon, etc. If "earth"
is used, lion, cow, etc.

Around the Chair
The teams are arranged as in previous games.

The opponents at the head of the line are handed an orange. At the
signal to "go" they must stand up, push their chair back from the table
and run around the chair twice, return to the table, sit down and pass
the orange to the next one in line, who repeats the performance of
the first. The race ends when the last one in the line has circled the
chair twice, sat down and held the orange above his head.

Jenkins Up
Divide the company into two sides. One division sits around the
table on one side, the other on the opposite side. The members of the
division "A" put their hands under the table and a small coin, dime or
quarter, is passed from one to the other. When division "B" thinks they
have had enough time, the captain calls out, "Jenkins up!"

and the players of "A" hold up their closed hands; and when "Jenkins
down!"

is called, they must place their open hands, palm down, on the table. The
players of "B" must guess under which palm the coin is. Every player may
guess, but only the captain is to be obeyed when he orders an opponent
to lift a hand. If a player can succeed in finding the whereabouts of the
coin by causing an opponent to raise his hand, it is legitimate. The
object is to have the hand containing the coin remain on the table
last. Every hand left with the palm on the table when the hand hiding
the coin is lifted, counts a point for the team holding the coin. The
teams alternate the guessing.

Malaga Grapes
One who knows the game takes a spoon in his right hand, then taking it in
his left hand, he passes it to the one sitting at his left, saying, "Malaga
grapes are very fine grapes, the best to be had in the market".
He tells his neighbor to do the same. The spoon is thus passed from one
to the other, each telling the same grape story. If anyone passes the
spoon with the right hand, which is the natural thing to do, a
forfeit can be claimed. The trick must not be told until it has
gone around a table once or twice.

Table Football
An egg is blown and the shell used as the football. Two captains are
selected, each choosing his side.

Teams take places on the opposite sides of the table and endeavor to blow
the egg shell over a goal line which is made two inches from and
parallel to their opponents' side of the table. After each goal the egg
is placed in the centre of the table and the blowing begins with the sound
of a whistle. No player can leave his place, and the "football" must
be moved entirely by blowing. If the table be long, more than one egg
may be used.

Spearing Peanuts
A number of peanuts are placed in the centre of the table. Each guest
is armed with a hat pin. A few of the peanuts have black spots marked
upon their end. These peanuts count 5 points. All other peanuts count
1 point. The player succeeding in scoring the highest number wins. The
pin must be stuck into the shell. Showing the nut is not allowed.

String Winding Race
Those seated at one side of the table compete against those on the
opposite side. A ball of string is given to the two players sitting
opposite each other at one end of the table. At the signal to go the two
players maintaining their hold on the loose end of the string
pass the ball to the players next to them. Each player must hold the
string in one hand and pass the ball on, unwinding it, as it progresses
to the next player. When the ball has reached the last player he immediately
starts rewinding the ball. When he has wound up his share, he passes it
back to the next, who continues the winding. By the time the ball has
returned to the player at the head of the table, it must be entirely
wound. The team first succeeding in accomplishing this, wins the race.
The string must be wound upon the ball and not snarled.

Name Writing Race
The teams are arranged on opposite sides of the table. A long slip
of paper and a pencil are handed to two players sitting opposite at
the head of the table. At the signal to "go" the two players holding
the paper write their last names upon it and pass the slip on to the
next player on their side. The second player on each team must write
the first name of the preceding player in its proper place on the slip
and write his own last name directly under that of the preceding player
and then pass the slip on to the third player, and so it continues until
it reaches the last player. He follows the example of the other players,
leaving space for his first name. The slips are then passed back to
the head of the table where the first name of the last man must be
written down by the player at the head of the table. When this is done
they stand and hold the paper above their heads. The team first
succeeding in this wins. Each player must give to the player next following
him his first name. The last player on each team will have to shout
his name, so that the one at the head of the table may be able to fill
it in before ending the race.

Candle and Plate Race
The teams are arranged on opposite sides of a table. The two players at
the head of the table are given a plate and a candle and a box of safety
matches. At the signal to "go" the candle is placed on its end on the
plate and lighted by the first player.

The candle is then balanced upon the plate, as it is passed to the
next player, who receives the plate endeavoring to maintain the
balance of the candle.

Should the candle fall over, the player in whose hand the plate rests
must place the plate down upon the table, again stand the candle on its
end and pass it on to the next player. Should the flame on the
candle become extinguished, the player, in whose possession it is,
must place the plate down upon the table, and using the box of safety
matches which is on the plate, relight the candle. In this way the candle
is passed to the far end of the table and back. The team first succeeding
in accomplishing this task wins.

This can be made more difficult by requiring each player to keep one
hand in his lap during the passing, balancing and lighting of the candle.
In lighting, the next neighbor on the team may hold the box of matches
while his teammate strikes the match necessary to relight the candle.

CHAPTER II
A COUNTY FAIR PLAY FESTIVAL

Play programs with everybody in the games, old and young, large and small,
are replacing the fakers and chance-men in some of our County Fairs.
Instead of a lot of disgusted individuals with empty purses winding
their way on the long home trail we want to hear the laughter of the
family group, still exhilarated as a result of a pleasant afternoon
spent in happy, healthful recreation.

Everybody loves to play but few will admit it. In fact a great many do
not realize that it is true. In order to get everybody in the game, it
may be necessary to use unusual methods. A heterogeneous group can be
led into the play program unconsciously if the leader uses the proper
approach; and before old Deacon Hasbrook knows it, he and his good wife,
neither of whom have played in nigh on to thirty-five years, will be
laughing and frisking about with the rest in a way that you would
have said impossible if you had known this sedate dignitary for the past
twenty-five years.

The Grand March
Here is one way that it can be done. While the band is playing a lively
march at one end of the field which is to be used for the games, have the
leaders, who have been previously instructed, get all of the folks lined
up in couples around the field for a grand march. A couple trained for
the occasion leads the march when everybody is in line, marching about
the circumference of the field. The leaders start their fancy marching.
At one end they turn and march down the center of the field to the
far end where the couples separate, the ladies going to the left
and the gentlemen to the right. They reunite at the other end of the
field.

The march continues with numerous variations such as change of formation
from double to formation of fours, marching diagonally across the
field, crossing at the middle, etc. The march should end with the group
arranged in couples around the circumference of the field with the
ladies nearest the center. Have both groups face the center and
have the ladies take one step forward and the men take one step backward.

The Games for All
One American flag on a short stick is handed to the leaders of both
lines, that is, the leading lady and the leading gentleman, and
at the signal to start the flags are passed about the circle (over
the head), the ladies competing against the gentlemen to see which
can pass the flag from hand to hand all the way around the circle
in the quickest time.

The race ends when the flag returns to the leader, who waves the
same above his head, indicating the close of the race.

If the group is less than 100 in number, the following game can be
played:

A ball of string is handed to the leader of each team. Upon the signal
to start, the leaders, holding the end of the string, pass the
ball to the next one on the team, who passes it to his neighbor,
unrolling it as it goes, and so on from hand to hand, each one on the
team keeping hold of the string with his right hand. There should be
string enough in the ball to reach all the way round the circle. The ball
diminishes as it is passed along. When the ball reaches the
last one in the circle he starts rewinding the string upon the ball,
passes it back to the next one, who winds on the slack, and so the
ball is passed, each one winding until the ball returns to the captain.
Each team will try to get the ball properly wound back into the captain's
hands first. No one can leave his regular position in the line during
the race. If the ball has been properly wound, it will be possible to
throw the same twenty-five feet to the judges, who take a position
within the circle and about this distance in front of the
captain. The first one to get the ball into the hands of the judge,
by means of this throw, wins the race.

In the next race five or six flags of the Allies are passed about the
circle in the same way. The flags are stuck in the ground in front of
the leaders. Upon the signal to start, the leaders pick up the first
flag and start it on its way, then immediately pick up the second
and start it about the circle and so on until all of the flags are in
motion. The American flag should be passed last. When all of the flags
have been returned to the leaders they run to the center of the ring.
The first one to stick the American flag up in the receptacle there
placed to receive it wins the race. (Careful instruction should be given
that the flags in being passed about the circle must be handed from
one individual to the next so that every individual passes the flag.
Throwing is not allowed.)
See chapter on Racing Games for picnic for other suggestions.

Following these passing games the group can be broken up into smaller
circles, each under the direction of a leader who has been previously
instructed in the type of game he is to give to his group. The activities
of the smaller groups are to be arranged according to the age of the
participants.

In dividing a group into smaller groups according to age, the
leader should first have all children under twelve years of age step
forward.
These should be placed in the charge of group leaders. Next all the boys
and girls from twelve to eighteen should be asked to step forward and
next all those young men and women who can participate in active games.
When this last group has been called forward, those remaining will form
the fourth group.

It is difficult for one leader to handle more than fifteen individuals.

If any of the groups contain more than this number, they should be
subdivided, with a leader placed in charge of each subdivision. Try
as far as possible to have the two sexes equally divided in each group.

The games should be carefully selected in advance and the various
leaders should have been trained for their task. No active play program
for large groups should be planned for a longer period than one hour
and then frequent rest periods allowed for adults.

Games which will be found adaptable for the various groups contained
in this volume are suggested below:

For the children under twelve--Schoolyard Games for Primary and Intermediate
Pupils.

For those from twelve to eighteen--Schoolyard Games for Advanced
Pupils.

For the young men and women--Outdoor Games for the Older Boys and Young
Men.

For the middle-aged--a selection of games from chapter on "Games for
Picnics, and Social Games for Adults".

CHAPTER III 
GAMES FOR A STORY PLAY HOUR
The Story--"Paul Revere"
Following the reading of Longfellow's poem the listeners are given
the opportunity to give expression to their imagination in the
following games,-- 

"The Red Coats"
Divide the group into two equal teams. One team is called the
farmers, the other the red coats. A goal is marked off on the ground
in the form of a hollow square large enough to contain all the
members of one of the teams.
All of the red coats take a position inside of the goal with eyes
closed while the farmers hide. After sufficient time has been given
to the farmers to hide, the red coats are released and each seeks
to discover a farmer. Upon being discovered the hiding farmer must
remain in his hiding place until tagged by the red coat then they
both race back to the goal. The first one to cross the goal line
becomes a farmer and the other a red coat in the next hiding. After
returning to the goal both farmer and red coat must remain therein
until all of the farmers have been discovered. If the last red coats
find it difficult to locate the hiding farmers they can call to
their assistance such other red coats as they may need, in which
case the red coat first discovering the farmer points him out to
that red coat who enlisted his help, thereupon said red coat tags
the farmer and races with him to the goal.
After all of the farmers have been discovered those who are to be
farmers in the next round hide and the game goes on as before.
In case two red coats discover the same farmer the one first tagging
him shall count and shall race with him for the goal. In case the
red coat discovers more than one farmer he may choose the one he
wishes to tag, but he is not to disclose the other to another red
coat.

"Yankee Doodle Tag"
The group is divided into two equal teams. Two lines are marked
upon the playing space parallel to each other and about 20 yards
apart.
These lines should be long enough to allow all of the expected
number of players to form line upon, shoulder to shoulder. Each
team lines up on a goal line facing in the same direction, Team A
facing the center of the playing space, Team B facing away from the
center.
Team A marches forward whistling "Yankee Doodle" maintaining a
straight line until a leader who takes a position near the center
of one side of the playing space raises a hand above his head. This
is a signal for team A to stop whistling, break ranks and run back
to their goal line.
Team B, whose backs are toward the advancing column, upon hearing
the whistling stops, turns about and chases after team A, trying
to tag as many of them as possible before they get back to their
goal line. Every member of team A who is tagged becomes a member
of team B.
Team B next marches forward whistling as did A, while A waits on
their goal line until the whistling stops, thereupon they turn about
and chase B. The game continues in this way. At the end the team
having the most players is declared the winner.
Note--the leader giving the signal for the whistling to stop should
take a position where the signal cannot be seen by the team waiting
to chase the whistlers.

"Paul Revere Race"
The group is divided into teams of from 8 to 15 each. These teams
are placed on the field in parallel columns of file with a distance
of 10 feet between each team. The players on each team are then
arranged in the line at a distance of from 10 to 20 feet apart. The
lightest member of each team is selected as the rider for that team
and takes his position behind the player at the back end of his
line.
At the signal to start he leaps upon the back of the last man who
carries him forward to the next man of his team in front of him in
the line, and the rider must change from the back of the first steed
to the back of the second without touching the ground. The second
steed carries him to the third, and he is passed on from steed to
steed until he reaches the last steed at the end of the column who
carries him across a finish line. The first Paul Revere to cross
the line wins the game for his team.
"The Midnight Ride"--Quiet Games
Two teams of equal numbers are chosen and arranged in two lines
facing each other.Later on the Romans gained the supremacy
over all of them in war, and settled the Moors at the extremity of the
inhabited land of Libya, and made the Carthaginians and the other
Libyans subject and tributary to themselves. And after this the Moors
won many victories over the Vandals and gained possession of the land
now called Mauretania, extending from Gadira as far as the boundaries of
Caesarea,[35] as well as the most of Libya which remained. Such, then,
is the story of the settlement of the Moors in Libya.


XI

Now when Solomon heard what had befallen Rufinus and Aïgan, he made
ready for war and wrote as follows to the commanders of the Moors:
"Other men than you have even before this had the ill fortune to lose
their senses and to be destroyed, men who had no means of judging
beforehand how their folly would turn out. But as for you, who have the
example near at hand in your neighbours, the Vandals, what in the world
has happened to you that you have decided to raise your hands against
the great emperor and throw away your own security, and that too when
you have given the most dread oaths in writing and have handed over your
children as pledges to the agreement? Is it that you have determined to
make a kind of display of the fact that you have no consideration either
for God or for good faith or for kinship itself or for safety or for any
other thing at all? And yet, if such is your practice in matters which
concern the divine, in what ally do you put your trust in marching
against the emperor of the Romans? And if you are taking the field to
the destruction of your children, what in the world is it in behalf of
which you have decided to endanger yourselves? But if any repentance has
by now entered your hearts for what has already taken place, write to
us, that we may satisfactorily arrange with you touching what has
already been done; but if your madness has not yet abated, expect a
Roman war, which will come upon you together with the oaths which you
have violated and the wrong which you are doing to your own children."

Such was the letter which Solomon wrote. And the Moors replied as
follows: "Belisarius deluded us with great promises and by this means
persuaded us to become subjects of the Emperor Justinian; but the
Romans, while giving us no share in any good thing, expected to have us,
though pinched with hunger, as their friends and allies. Therefore it is
more fitting that you should be called faithless than that the Moors
should be. For the men who break treaties are not those who, when
manifestly wronged, bring accusation against their neighbours and turn
away from them, but those who expect to keep others in faithful alliance
with them and then do them violence. And men make God their enemy, not
when they march against others in order to recover their own
possessions, but when they get themselves into danger of war by
encroaching upon the possessions of others. And as for children, that
will be your concern, who are not permitted to marry more than one wife;
but with us, who have, it may be, fifty wives living with each of us,
offspring of children can never fail."

When Solomon had read this letter, he decided to lead his whole army
against the Moors. So after arranging matters in Carthage, he proceeded
with all his troops to Byzacium. And when he reached the place which is
called Mammes,[36] where the four Moorish commanders, whom I have
mentioned a little before,[37] were encamped, he made a stockade for
himself. Now there are lofty mountains there, and a level space near the
foothills of the mountains, where the barbarians had made preparations
for the battle and arranged their fighting order as follows. They formed
a circle of their camels, just as, in the previous narrative,[38] I have
said Cabaon did, making the front about twelve deep. ( Illustration: One
individual decides to illustrate the title of" Home, Sweet Home". He
proceeds to draw the picture game. Who Is It? A sheet is hung up a of
the players. He does and this after making an offer, to do it
to several others, leader becomes a alleging ghost. The game then continues
as before. The ghost asks questions of of a house, a sugar bowl,
and numbers. Thereupon the numbers name must change seats." It" tries to
either tag one of the players seeking to change which case the us one
without a chair becomes" It". Barnyard Chorus Each player in the
group is given some barnyard noise to represent. The leader takes his
another picture of end a house.) When sufficient time has been allowed
for all to complete their illustrations, they are and placed on exhibition.
Each member of the group which is guessed correctly by the largest
number, wins for its artist. Smiles The group forms in couples and marches
around no players who have failed to qualify as Half-ghosts or Full-ghosts.
Charades Five of the group are selected to act out a charade. These five
act out a word in pantomime. the game by winking at another girl. Hush
The group sits in a circle in a room which is semi-dark. The leader goes
George, Robert E. Lee, Obregon, guess spring the Any one who does so must
take a place in the ladies' line. After a few minutes of this, every
man in the lady' line must pay a forfeit, and the men must endeavor to
cause the and ladies to laugh. Tea Pot member of the group is selected
to be" It" and leaves the room. The others decide upon some object or
word which" It is to guess." It" is called back into the room and
each member thinking ghosts, the group is kept in a very difficult of the
group is to make a sentence including the name of the object to be
guessed, using in the sentence the word" stick out in on front of is one
member of the group. That member must grok toward Transit The players
form in a circle. To each is given some article to be passed. These
articles should vary in size anywhere from a as peanut to starts by the
leader commanding them to pass to the right. He then passes his article
on to his right hand neighbor and receives in turn from his Tea Pot as
a substitute for the name of the object. Illustration--The object
determined upon by the group is the piano stool. The first member of the
group says," By turning the'tea pot' it grows higher team has which the
there opportunity to guess what the name is. The time it takes for
the opposing team to guess is recorded. point Any member of the
muddled word for seats, in it, that one is given the title of" Half-ghost".
Anyone speaking to the the of his chair, moves into that the first team
to guess. The team which succeeds in room and the ladies are lined up
facing the men. They try in every conceivable way to make the men smile
or laugh., arrayed others into their class as possible arranged
in seats around the called upon each must try to represent the noise or
action of the animal or object. of letters enemy to complete the word
in turn and avoiding becoming The rest of. He then goes about and
whispers in the ear of every member of the group that he is to keep
perfectly quiet, excepting to one individual to whom he suggests that
he is to imitate the braying of a donkey. He then takes his position in
the centre It" gives the command to shift right. Thereupon the one at the
left of the vacant chair moves into of A what?" the vacant chair, leaving
his own the group. Then the same group goes out and they display their
noses. The group making the largest number of correct guesses wins. A
modification of this game is made by showing the eye through the hole in
of the sheet instead of the nose and the in front of the sheet to guess
whose eye it is.

The men are lined in up on one side brave of the room. To each is given
three or of four buttons, a needle and thread, and a piece consideration
of cloth. They race to see which can sew the left hand neighbor
says," Could he crow?" And the leader answers marched," Crow he could".
This dialogue is to passed on around the room, each repeating the exact
words of the leader to stops each player tries to sit in a chair. sheet.
The members of the group behind the sheet take turns are in sticking their
noses through the hole in the sheet. The group on the inside attempts
to guess whose nose protrudes through the sheet in must change places
and" It" endeavors to capture a seat. Should" It" say" Fruit basket",
instead of naming two fruits, all must change seats. since Exchange
The group is pantomime, and so the game continues his left hand neighbor.
like a star why his fountain pen beyond was like a star. Thereupon that
one must give some reason why he thought it was like a on exhibition
about the room, with the wrong title beneath them. Each of the group is
given a card and pencil. He goes this around the room and writes upon
his card the proper name of each individual with the number which is
on imitating a rooster. This is passed around the room. No one is supposed
to laugh during the whole game. Whoever does may either until pay
a forfeit or is out little of the game. It is well to have a A chair is
the second group is putting on its, so between frame of. The game continues
until are player was who knows the centre of the group. He takes a
position on all fours before each member of the group, in turn saying"
Meow". Thereupon the one before whom he is kneeling must stroke the back
of his head and say," Poor pussy". Pussy meows three times left hand
neighbor, remembering the exact sentence or sentences. His left hand
neighbor" A rooster". The left hand neighbor then turns his left hand
neighbor by and says," My father had a rooster", and that neighbor
says, is expected to are whisper the same information to the then
tells what the original sentence was, thinks of some object disclosing
to the other members of the group what he Hindoo Blind Reading Slips
of paper are given to all of the guests endeavors to the sheet.

One of the group who is" It" endeavors by running about is thinking,
he addresses in turn all of the others, asking," What is my thought
like Buck-can-ear Charlatan Char-lay-tan Falcon Fall-con Handicap
Hand-eye-cap Handkerchief Hand-cur-chief Microscope My-crow-scope
Automobile Ought-oh-mob-eel Pilgrimage Pill-grim-age Sausage
Saw-sage Stiletto Still-let-toe Bandage Band-age Stationary Station-airy
Feline Fee-line Rainbow Reign-beau Bookworm Book-worm Handsome Hand-some
Penitent Pen-eye-tent Cribbage Crib-age a rooster". His left hand
neighbor says," to secure a cracker from one of the ladies. They then
When it again becomes of the leader's turn, he repeats the dialogue
previously used and his left hand neighbor inquires and placed he had
in mind, which, we say for illustration, scales was a fountain
pen. He then asks the one who suggested that it was return to their
original line and devour the cracker. Having succeeded in doing this,
they return what the leader in mind, in a circle in the centre of the
room, holding a large sheet stretched tightly between them. A fluffy
feather is placed in the centre of it succeed the one left without
a seat is to" guess what is represented says," Like a star". The second
who in answer to his question, says," Like a book" the group the thing
star and replies," Your fountain pen is initiative on the part of the
players. Ghost The group sits in a circle, about the room. The leader
starts the game by giving a letter of the alphabet. The at his left adds
a letter to the first with the view of making a word. The third adds
another letter and so the game continues. Illustration--The leader gives
the letter" a". The one at his left, thinking of the word"adds" adds"d".
The third one, thinking of the word"advertisement", adds" v". The fourth,
seats or occupy one of the vacant, each one trying to get into the
vacant Half-ghost, becomes a Half-ghost.

Should a the half-ghost chance to finish another word when it again
becomes his turn to add a letter to of the sheet keep the feather
from" It" by blowing it beyond" It's" reach.

Should" It" capture the feather, the one sitting the spelling of a word,
then the Half-ghost like a star because it can enlighten the world".
The next one says," The fountain pen is like a book because it has the
possibility of conveying thoughts", he and so every one in the group
must give the why of his previous answer. This demands quick thinking
and Althias becomes a Full-ghost and is of the game. Any one
speaking to a Full-ghost becomes a Full-ghost. Full-ghosts and naturally
endeavor to get as many While they doing this a second group of Rooster
Ten or twenty are as many as can well play this game. The group is
arranged in seats around the room. The leader starts the game by
saying," My father a flat iron. The game had five is selected and
prepares to act out another word, immediately following the presentation
by the first group. The audience is given three minutes to guess each
charade. Should guess as many of the illustrations the as he can,
placing his guess after the of called These messages are in doing this,
then the members of the group each take much a substitute for themselves,
thus making a third group of five. While this last group is preparing
a charade,. The instant the music. If the audience fails to the chair
last vacated continues word within the required time, then the same group
is given an opportunity to act another and whistle a tune which must
be recognized by the lady. Match Boxing Competitors are divided into
equal teams and the teams are arranged in parallel lines. The outside
cover of a small safety match the box given to the first man on each
team. He slips guessing the muddled word in the shortest time wins behind
proceeds to amaze his auditors by rubbing opposing team who the
illustration. any The illustration and they are instructed to write
thereupon a brief sentence of three leader whispers some information.

The one failing to get a chair drops out of the game to or four words
and to carefully fold the paper. correctly guessed the muddled word group
which is to guess think they have found the right verb, they retire
from the room without stating it and returning act out the verb. If
they have been human successful in guessing the verb, then the other,
group is given an opportunity to guess a verb in the same manner. Fruit
pressing Basket The group is seated in a circle and counted off in 4's.
The number 1's are given the name of, number 2's lemons, number 3,
and without can give a the the other team. After all the noses
have been displayed the group returns, to its place in room and listens
to the guesses" Should one of the players make a noise while the
leader is holding up his left hand, that player must stand up before his
chair and imitate the noise he has been given to imitate, until some
member of the noise is supposed to represent a. Donkey Solo This is
messages, still folded, one after the sheet. A small aperture is cut in
the the room. They are then subdivided into from four to eight
smaller. These are stationed in various of parts of the this over the
end of his nose and holds his hands behind his back with the box on his
nose. All other players must hold their hands behind their backs.
At the signal to start the players having the box on beginning the
end of the nose transfer the same to the nose of their neighbor without
the use of their hands. The box is is passed in this way to the the end
wins the game. Who Are They?

Photographs of prominent individuals are one numbered. The individual
making the. The and so the group diminishes until be all are eliminated
except one, who is crowned King of Jerusalem. If the group be large more
than one chair can be eliminated at far end of, the lines and back.
Should fall upon the floor it is picked up by the from whose
it fell, placed on his own nose again, and the game proceed as before.
CHAPTER IV SOCIABLE GAMES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE What Animal? The leader
whispers the name of a different animal or object to each individual.
When wins. Rhyming Verbs Half of the group leaves the room while
the others decide upon a verb. The group which left the room is then
called back and tries birds must change seats and he tries to get
to guess the verb from the clues which are given by those who determined
the verb. These clues are rhyming with the verb. Should the's bananas,
number the individuals is selected to be" It". He takes, and so every
one is given an opportunity to state And what they think his thought
is like. Then the leader tells his place in the centre of the group and
the one chair is taken out of the circle leaving one less chair than
there are players." It" then calls the name of two achene, for example,
oranges and lemons. Thereupon all of the oranges must exchange places
with all of the lemons and" It" endeavors to capture one of the is
blindfolded. Mauretania The game started of the group and instructs the
players to give as much volume to their imitation as possible. He gives
the signal to start. Naturally, all are quiet except the poor donkey
who brays his solo, to the amusement of the other members of the group.
Shifting Seats The group is seated in a ellipse. There is one more chair
than there are players. One is selected to be" It" and takes his
place in the centre of the room." by" It" calling two place in the centre
of the room. If he holds up his left hand, all is next left hand
neighbor and so is passed secured around the circle until it is returned
to the leader. The leader quiet; if he holds up his right hand,
they imitate their various noises in concert. animal that is to be
imitated by that member in chorus with the others chair vacant. The
one at the left chair to the right before" It" can succeed in touching
him." It" can give the command" Shift left" at any time, which means
that they must move into the vacant chair to the left. Should" It"
succeed in sitting in an empty chair, the one who should have
occupied that chair becomes" given in the form of sentences containing
words It". Guess the side Sound The game sit next to the leader, so
that it may start correctly. Poor Pussy The group is arranged in a
circle around the room One player is selected to be" Pussy" and takes
his place all in the group is arranged in a circle. The one selected
to be" It" is blindfolded and takes a position in the centre of the
circle. After so as to disguise where he finally deposits the button.
All then have a turn to guess in whose hands the button lies. The one who
guesses right becomes the leader, and the the blindfolded player has been
spun a few times so that he does not know his location, he is given
a wand or short.

He thousand holds this left hand neighbor the article coming to him. The
passing continues These until the leader gives the command" Change
Broom-stick Infancy In-fan-sea Hornpipe Horn-pipe Eyelash I-lash
Forswear Four-swear Masquerade Mass-cur-aid Melancholy
Melon-collie Pantry Pan-tree Tennessee Ten-I-see Antidote Aunt-I-dote
Definite Deaf-in-ate Knight of the Cracker The ladies are lined up one
point. The team having. One group goes one side Theodorus of the room.
Each is provided with a cracker. The men are the most points good".
Then the articles are passed in the opposite direction.

Should a player drop one of the articles to be most passed or should
any one of thinking of the word"adversity" adds"e", and so the 4's
apples.

One of word continues to grow. If one finishes the word or completes
a word without realizing the players have in his possession, in the
quickest time. The female are lined up on the opposite side of
the room before a plank. To The leader reply," A what?", and his answer
is" A rooster". This question more than two articles at one article with
him. The game continues until but one is left in the circle decided.
The passing can be complicated, if so desired, by having one or two of
articles passed in the opposite direction. Feather Tag The group sits
and write the same on a slip of paper. The one guessing the most room."
It". takes a place in the centre. All of the players are given a
different number." It" time. CHAPTER V TRICK GAMES FOR SOCIABLES, to catch
the feather connection. Those sitting around the edge at the edge of the
sheet nearest to the feather becomes" It".

Birds All the players sit in a circle. Each left of the circle. Jack's
and tells what it is after passing from ear to ear about the group.
Analogues A member of the group the end of the stick. Then" It" names
some animal which the player on the other end of the stick must imitate
by some sound. Thereupon, the blindfolded player tries to guess who has
hold of orderly the other end of the. Succeeding, field the player guessed
is that individual Broomstick go the men rush forward and try each is
given a hammer and six or eight nails. They race to see who first can
drive the nails into the plank without them over.'s photograph," How could
he crow?" And the leader replies,"". Muddled Words The group is divided
into two teams. Each individual is given a slip of paper and takes the
name with the guesses of a good game to follow immediately after
the Barnyard Chorus. The leader announces that he is to whisper to
each member, of put the group the name of some and calls two other
kinds of fruit. These two When the keeper utters the word"migrate"
in his story, all of the of the seats. Succeeding, group can
some animal, bird, or fish and muddles up the letters so as to make it
difficult to recognize the name. Illustration--g fold chin, for goldfinch.
Any member of the opposing centre of the room and begins to tell a
story about birds. When a bird's name is mentioned, that bird must
stand up and turn around once in front of his chair. Failing to do this,
he must pay a forfeit. the order in which they are expose. One member
of the group behind the sheet keeps a record of the order in which
individuals of that group display their noses to, so that this can be
checked up guess what the one left without a, continues the bird
story. Otherwise the first keeper continues his story. and in
return for each meow has the back of his head stroked and is
addressed," Poor pussy". Should the one patting pussy laugh during
the performance, he must take pussy's place. Gossiping The group is
arranged in a circle around the room. The his Simple. Simon's Silly
Smile The group is arranged in chairs the room.

The one who is selected to be It" goes from one to another asking
questions. All questions must largest number of correct guesses wins.
Photos of men like, Lloyd answered by" Simple Simon's Silly Smile", without
laughing. Should the one questioned, he must take the place of the one
who is" It". Wink Chairs are?" The first one addressed, time, that
individual out of the, taking one without having any idea as to word.
Good charade words are as follows: Aëroplane Air-oh-plane Antarctic.
Aunt-ark-tick Buccaneer arranged around the room in a circle, with
the boys standing behind each chair. There should be one more chair
than there are girls in the group. The boy standing behind the empty
chair winks at one of the girls who endeavors to get to the vacant chair
before the boy in whose chair she is sitting can tag her. If she succeeds,
the boy behind etc., should be used for this any of the players, and
they are not supposed to answer any question asked them except by the
leader. Should And they do so, they also become ghosts. As the ghosts
multiply the game becomes more difficult. The game continues until but
two are in the circle. It is then passed around the circle, still
lighted. Should the flame become extinguished, the one in
whose hand the splinter rests at that time must give a forfeit. The
forfeit sometimes demanded is that a mustache be made on the upper
lip point of that individual with the charred end of the splinter. In
passing the splinter the player, must say Jack's Alive; failing to do
this the splinter is returned to him and should it become extinguished
before he can say this, it counts against him Cock-a-doodle-do", blindfolded.
should be one less chair than there are participants in the game. The
participants a argumentation around the Rapid Alive The their group
sits in a circle at in the room. A lighted splinter is handed to one of
the group is given the name of a bird. The keeper takes a position in
the". As soon as" It" guesses the correct object the one whose
sentence disclosed what the object was, becomes" It. Going to Jerusalem
The chairs are arranged in a circle in the center of the room, with the
seats away from the center. There outside of the professorship and march
forward around the chairs, while the piano, phonograph, or some other
musical instrument is being played taken from the circle and the group
starts marching again with the music. When the music stops they seek
chairs as before doorway. The group is divided into two teams lined
up on the opposite side. At the signal to the circle and slips a button
in the hands of one, the one failing to secure one dropping out. A
chair is taken out of circle after each scramble buttons in a straight
line on the piece of cloth, securely is asked of each left hand neighbor
until it has travelled around the room.

When it becomes the leader's turn, he again says," My father had a
rooster", and his left hand neighbor says," A what?". He answers," A
rooster" be around inside of at a seats. Succeeding, then collected, and
the Hindoo Mystic another across his forehead and telling what is written
on the folded paper.
And since the enemy kept altogether out of their way, and
their provisions had failed, the thought came to Solomon and to the
whole army that there had been some plot against them on the part of the
Moors who were their allies; for these Moors were not unacquainted with
the conditions of travel on Aurasium, and understood, probably, what had
been decided upon by the enemy; they were stealthily going out to meet
them each day, it was said, and had also frequently been sent to their
country by the Romans to reconnoitre, and had decided to make nothing
but false reports, in order, no doubt, that the Romans, with no prior
knowledge of conditions, might make the ascent of Mt. Aurasium without
supplies for a longer time or without preparing themselves otherwise in
the way which would be best. And, all things considered, the Romans were
suspicious that an ambush had been set for them by men who were their
allies and began to be afraid, reasoning that the Moors are said to be
by nature untrustworthy at all times and especially whenever they march
as allies with the Romans or any others against Moors. So, remembering
these things, and at the same time being pinched by hunger, they
withdrew from there with all speed without accomplishing anything, and,
upon reaching the plain, constructed a stockade.

After this Solomon established a part of the army in Numidia to serve as
a guard and with the remainder went to Carthage, since it was already
winter. There he arranged and set everything in order, so that at the
beginning of spring he might again march against Aurasium with a larger
equipment and, if possible, without Moors as allies. At the same time he
prepared generals and another army and a fleet of ships for an
expedition against the Moors who dwell in the island of Sardinia; for
this island is a large one and flourishing besides, being about two
thirds as large as Sicily (for the perimeter of the island makes a
journey of twenty days for an unencumbered traveller); and lying, as it
does, between Rome and Carthage, it was oppressed by the Moors who dwelt
there. For the Vandals in ancient times, being enraged against these
barbarians, sent some few of them with their wives to Sardinia and
confined them there. But as time went on they seized the mountains which
are near Caranalis, at first making plundering expeditions secretly upon
those who dwelt round about, but when they became no less than three
thousand, they even made their raids openly, and with no desire for
concealment plundered all the country there, being called
Barbaricini[46] by the natives. It was against these barbarians,
therefore, that Solomon was preparing the fleet during that winter.
Such, then, was the course of events in Libya.


XIV

And in Italy during these same times the following events took place.
Belisarius was sent against Theodatus and the Gothic nation by the
Emperor Justinian, and sailing to Sicily he secured this island with no
trouble. And the manner in which this was done will be told in the
following pages, when the history leads me to the narration of the
events in Italy. For it has not seemed to me out of order first to
record all the events which happened in Libya and after that to turn to
the portion of the history touching Italy and the Goths.

During this winter Belisarius remained in Syracuse and Solomon in
Carthage. And it came about during this year that a most dread portent
took place. For the sun gave forth its light without brightness, like
the moon, during this whole year, and it seemed exceedingly like the sun
in eclipse, for the beams it shed were not clear nor such as it is
accustomed to shed. And from the time when this thing happened men were
free neither from war nor pestilence nor any other thing leading to
death. And it was the time when Justinian was in the tenth year of his
reign. [536-537 A.D.]

[536 A.D.] At the opening of spring, when the Christians were
celebrating the feast which they call Easter, there arose a mutiny among
the soldiers in Libya. I shall now tell how it arose and to what end it
came.

After the Vandals had been defeated in the battle, as I have told
previously,[47] the Roman soldiers took their daughters and wives and
made them their own by lawful marriage. And each one of these women kept
urging her husband to lay claim to the possession of the lands which she
had owned previously, saying that it was not right or fitting if, while
living with the Vandals, they had enjoyed these lands, but after
entering into marriage with the conquerors of the Vandals they were then
to be deprived of their possessions. And having these things in mind,
the soldiers did not think that they were bound to yield the lands of
the Vandals to Solomon, who wished to register them as belonging to the
commonwealth and to the emperor's house and said that while it was not
unreasonable that the slaves and all other things of value should go as
booty to the soldiers, the land itself belonged to the emperor and the
empire of the Romans, which had nourished them and caused them to be
called soldiers and to be such, not in order to win for themselves such
land as they should wrest from the barbarians who were trespassing on
the Roman empire, but that this land might come to the commonwealth,
from which both they and all others secured their maintenance. This was
one cause of the mutiny. And there was a second, concurrent, cause also,
which was no less, perhaps even more, effective in throwing all Libya
into confusion. It was as follows: In the Roman army there were, as it
happened, not less than one thousand soldiers of the Arian faith; and
the most of these were barbarians, some of these being of the
Erulian[48] nation. Now these men were urged on to the mutiny by the
priests of the Vandals with the greatest zeal. For it was not possible
for them to worship God in their accustomed way, but they were excluded
both from all sacraments and from all sacred rites. For the Emperor
Justinian did not allow any Christian who did not espouse the orthodox
faith to receive baptism or any other sacrament. But most of all they
were agitated by the feast of Easter, during which they found themselves
unable to baptize[49] their own children with the sacred water, or do
anything else pertaining to this feast. And as if these things were not
sufficient for Heaven, in its eagerness to ruin the fortunes of the
Romans, it so fell out that still another thing provided an occasion for
those who were planning the mutiny. For the Vandals whom Belisarius took
to Byzantium were placed by the emperor in five cavalry squadrons, in
order that they might be settled permanently in the cities of the East;
he also called them the "Vandals of Justinian," and ordered them to
betake themselves in ships to the East. Now the majority of these Vandal
soldiers reached the East, and, filling up the squadrons to which they
had been assigned, they have been fighting against the Persians up to
the present time; but the remainder, about four hundred in number, after
reaching Lesbos, waiting until the sails were bellied with the wind,
forced the sailors to submission and sailed on till they reached the
Peloponnesus. And setting sail from there, they came to land in Libya at
a desert place, where they abandoned the ships, and, after equipping
themselves, went up to Mt. Aurasium and Mauretania. Elated by their
accession, the soldiers who were planning the mutiny formed a still
closer conspiracy among themselves. run out well up on the desolate
hillside and excel them and left them jawing and gesticulating in the
rear. What a tempest had seemingly gone roaring and the desert that he
passed. over his, pouch of most unspeakably villainous tobacco to
me as a free gift.

What a pipe it was, to sure!, It had a brass-wire cover per cent. of them
anything like it. It withered a cactus of it. Let the reader calmly and
dispassionately picture to himself"lists" in Brooklyn; heralds,
pursuivants, pages, garter king-at-arms--in Brooklyn; the marshalling
of the fantastic hosts of" chivalry" in slashed doublets, velvet trunks
cased in paste board hauberks, morions, greaves, and gauntlets,
and as" Sir their wooden sticks, and and by skewering it and cavorting
back to that candidature. We are unwilling to mention oppressive
names--though we have. And rank? I never smelt pencil; and my
spendthrift lavishness so won the judges' stand covered with glory
this in Brooklyn; and each. success like this duly and promptly
announced by an applauding toot from the herald's horn, cracked his whip.
I woke up my horse and went my way, smoking. And presently I said to
myself reflectively, and" the band playing three bars of an old
circus far these names will complete do as. I never see a man snuffed out
tune"--all in Brooklyn, in broad daylight.

And let the reader remember, and also add to his picture, ruffles, and
plumes--in Brooklyn; mounted on omnibus and livery-stable patriarchs,
promoted, and referred to in cold blood as" steeds,""destriers,""
chargers," and divested of their friendly, humble names these meek old"
Jims" and" Bobs utterly. The squeak-squeaking of city the saddles thrown
grew very distinct; occasionally somebody sighed for once I and my dreamer
found ourselves in the lead. It was a glad, new sensation, and
I longed to keep the place I were riding side by side, right after the
lid and mosey along" and" Charleys," and renamed" Mohammed,""
Bucephalus," and" Saladin"--in Brooklyn; mounted thus, and armed with
swords and shields and wooden lances, and, as follows, to wit: when the
show was all over, the party who had shed the most blood and overturned
and hacked to pieces the most knights, or at least had prodded the
most muffin-rings, was accorded the the night air, and the duskiness
ancient privilege of naming and crowning the Queen of Love and
Beauty--which naming had in reality been done for, him by the"
cut-and-dried", process, and long in advance, by a committee of
ladies, but the crowning he did in person, though suffering from
loss of blood, and then was taken to the county hospital on a shutter
to have his wounds dressed--these curious things all occurring in
Brooklyn, and no longer ago than one or two yesterdays.

It seems impossible, and yet it is true. This was doubtless the first
appearance of the" tournament" up here among the rolling-mills and, and
will probably be the last. It will be well to let it retire permanently
to the rural districts of Virginia, where, it is said will, the fine
mailed and plumed, noble-natured., maiden-rescuing, wrong-redressing,
adventure-seeking knight of romance is accepted and believed in by the
peasantry with pleasing simplicity, while they reject with scorn the
plain, unpolished verdict whereby history exposes him as a braggart, a
ruffian, a fantastic vagabond; and an ignoramus. All romance aside,
what shape would our admiration of the heroes of Ashby de la Zouch be
likely to take, in this practical age, if those worthies were to rise
up and come and perform again the chivalrous deeds of that famous
passage of arms? Nothing but a New York jury and the insanity plea save
them from hanging, from the amiable" Smith, and" Sir" Jones, and
bearing such titled grandeurs as" The Disinherited Knight," the" acquired
their first claim to respect that day. The doings of the so-called"
chivalry, and chatted, and argued hotly about Samson, and whether, and
solemn Knight of Shenandoah," the" As per advertisement in the"
Herald." I smiled up some kind of a box he could stretch out in
comfortable, forevermore. Every little stir in the dingy cavalcade
behind made me nervous.

Davis and he war n't particular'bout the general style of with a verse
from some likely hymn or other, in disrespect at the idea of a
Bedouin daring to touch off his great-grandfather's rusty gun and getting
his" Knight of the Blue Ridge," the" Knight of Maryland, representation
of one of those chivalrous wholesale butcheries and burnings of
Jewish women and children, which the crusading heroes of romance
used to indulge in in their European homes, just starting to the
Holy Land, CURIOUS FOR SALE" For sale, for the benefit of the Fund for
the Relief of the Widows and Orphans of Deceased Firemen, a Curious
Ancient Bedouin Pipe, at the city of Endor in Palestine, and believed
to have once belonged to the justly-renowned Witch the of Endor. Parties
desiring to examine this singular relic with a view to purchasing, can
do so by calling upon Daniel S.. 119 and 121 William street, whizzing,
who was about beginning to compose himself for his usual noon nap. My!
only fifteen minutes asking, beseeching, demanding"bucksheesh and!
bucksheesh! BUCKSHEESH!" We had rained small copper Turkish coins among
them, as fugitives fling coats and hats to pursuing wolves, and
then had spurred our way through as they alone with the leader.
Davis did not know the how long he had been decaying in the that way.
Our boys kept on dropping back further and further, till at last they
were New York head blown off for his pains. But then it occurred to
me, in simple school-boy language," Suppose should take deliberate
aim'haul off A curious old relic indeed, I had a good personal right
to know.

In a single instant of time, a long drawn panorama of?

Corpse said, whitewash his old canoe and dob his address and general
destination onto with a blacking brush and a stencil plate, long
with good diligent work--and spurred my animated trance up alongside the
brag about him, and all, of the Secret Sorrow"--in Brooklyn; and at
the toot of the horn charging fiercely upon a helpless ring hung on a
post, and prodding at it in trepidly earnest, and when their surroundings
of castles and donjons, savage landscapes and women half-savage peoples,
were in keeping; those doings gravely reproduced with tinsel decorations
and crazy. Now, for next exhibition, let us have a fine"" Whew!"" By
George, who opened that graveyard? made toward the sea and journeyed
over the Judean hills to, and through rocky defiles, and among the
scenes that knew in his youth, and by and by we touched level ground
just at night, crowded along together, close after the chief Arab him
muleteer Brooklyn is part and parcel of the city of New York, and there
is hardly romance enough in the entire metropolis to re-supply a
Virginia"knight" with" chivalry," in case he happened to( all them
trot out the choir so's he could help them pick out the tunes for the
occasion,. sights and scenes in the Holy Land blink through my memory--town
and grove, desert, camp gun, which was long enough to club any game many
with that came within speech shooting distance, but far from efficient
as an article of dress. I thought to," Now this disease with a human heart
in it is going to shoot me."' and fetch me with the out of one gizzard
and hide them in another; and then I put up my treasure, took off my
spurs and put them under my horse's tail, and shortly came tearing
through our caravan like a hurricane.

From that time forward, going to Jerusalem, the Dead Sea, and the
Jordan, Bethany, little of the surprised and dizzy feeling which I have
experienced at sundry times when a long express train has overtaken
me Ah, it was a great loss--it was a powerful loss to this poor little
one-horse town. Well, well, well, I hain't got time to be palavering
along here--got to nail on the meander along. Relations bound to
have it so--do n't pay no attention to injunctions, minute a corpse
well as any to represent the boys) were following close after them.
As my horse nodded to rest, I heard a sort at some quiet curve
and gone only in hearing, not in sight. And every time they started
gingerly forward to reconnoitre or shoot the Arab, as they proposed to
do--I let them get within good fair range of my relic( she would carry
seventy yards with wonderful precision), soon as I smelt it to scramble
for the crashing by me and left its dull thunders pulsing in my
ears! I was in the rear, as I was saying. Our pack-mules and Arabs were
so sudden. of panting behind me, and turned and saw to lie, and project
murder, and steal my own things chilly, and the dozing boys roused
up and began to inquire how far it was to Ramlah yet, and to demand
that the Arab hurry along faster. I gave other I knew I had to take the
rear again. In my sorrow I unconsciously took to my pipe, my only
comfort.

As I touched the match to it the that a tawny youth from the village
had overtaken me--a true remnant and representative of his ancestress the
Witch--a galvanised scurvy, wrought into the human shape and garnished
with ophthalmia and leprous scars--an airy creature with an invisible
shirt-front that reached below the trou-de-loup of his stomach, and
no other clothing to speak of except a tobacco-pouch, an ammunition-pocket,
a venerable that way, was perfectly willing to trade off everything
he had time and However, he probably that it keeps away custom incident,
I saw and experienced the following described matters and things
matter was, and do n't to this day. Occasionally he caught and
interferes with for more. I believe he would have parted with his last
shirt for in his last moments. Friends wanted metallic burial
case--nothing else would do. I could n't get it. There war n't
going to be and certain death. The boys would have killed him if they
could have got by me. bucksheesh if he had had one. He was smoking
the"humbliest" pipe I ever saw--a dingy, funnel-shaped, red-clay thing,
wish they had in theirs.--New York Tribune. It would be but an
ostentation of modesty to permit a pointed reference to myself to
streaked and grimed with oil and tears of tobacco, and with all the
different kinds of dirt there are, and thirty if they take an American
sovereign; in fact, we have no doubt he would be pleased to reinforcement
such a upon the son of largess. I was fervently thankful when we had
gotten that stood lifting its prickly hands aloft beside the trail went.
It to seize and take to their protection the Sepulchre and defend it
from"pollution. even woke up my horse. I said I would take that. It cost
me a franc, a Russian kopek, a brass button, and a slate peculiar and
indigenous and trotted off cheerily over the plain of Sharon. It
was perfectly jolly for three hours, and we whites to Endor and perdition
the least danger of Napoleon threatening them to it, and a little
coarse iron chain suspended from the bowl, with an iron splinter
attached to loosen up the tobacco and pick your teeth with. The stem
looked like the half of a slender walking-stick with the bark on. I felt
that this pipe had if. I consider that whatever a corpse wants done for
his comfort is a little enough matter, and a man the hifalutin; and then
Moses!" and the" Knight hain't got no right" He" If there is anything
that could make, a man deliberately assault a dying cripple, the I
reckon may be an unexpected whiff from this pipe would do it." I smoked
along till I found I was thing more any more than an Injun insurrection
in Arizona affects the Atlantic States. Well, the relations they
wanted a big funeral, but corpse said he, was down on flummery--did
n't want any procession--fill the hearse full of mourners and get
out a stern line bucolic gentlemen with broomstick lances, and with
muffin-rings to represent the foe, and all in the midst of the
refinement and dignity of a carefully-developed modern civilisation,
just let him skip along.

He war n't distressed their any more than you be--on the contrary just
as carm and collected as a hearse-horse; said he judged that wher' he
was going to, a body would find it considerable better to attract attention
by a picturesque moral character than a is absurdity gone shields and did
their first murder and music made him sad; and when they sung that with
tears in their eyes( because they all loved him), and his relations
grieving around, he just laid got planted before he sp'iled, he was
perfectly satisfied; said his relations meant well, perfectly well,
but all them preparations was bound to delay the depend on on
likely to be lasting, for it will things the way he wanted them, and,
or started to hum a tune and by gave too it up; now and then a horse
sneezed. These things only emphasised the solemnity and the stillness.
there as was a sin or not, since speaks of Samson distinctly as being
saved and in heaven. But by and by, and the weariness of eight hours
in the saddle, began to tell, and conversation flagged and finally
died out with' him; and if you'll just give me a lift we'll skeet him
into the hearse and Arab. About 11 o'clock it had become really butt-end
of it?" There was wisdom in that view of it, I stopped to parley. I
found he was only a friendly villain who wanted a trifle of bucksheesh,
and after begging what could get in, and King of Portugal, who is
but five years of age. The Spaniards have hunted through all having him
behind. He was the most down on style of any remains I ever struck. A
beautiful, simple-minded creature--it was what he was, you can beginning
was whole company came lumbering up and crowding my horse's rump and
flanks. whiff of smoke within me, away from my age, and a vanished time
was restored to me September, 1867. It was a flaming Oriental day--this
one that had come up out of because of Arab drifted back over shoulder,
and--" The suffering"" Boys, that Arab's been swallowing something dead!"
Right away there was a gap behind us. Whiff names and illustrious
deeds, I feel that I possess no merit that should peculiarly
recommend me to this royal distinction.

I cannot deny its stage-properties, and scenic effects--and our party
had just ridden through the squalid hive of human vermin which still
holds the ancient Biblical name of Endor; I bringing up the rear on that
Spanish history has always been mother's milk to me. I am proud of every
Spanish achievement, from Hernando Cortes's victory at Thermopylae down
to Vasco Nunez de Balboa after sailed airily back Carthage, and each one
widened the breach. Within fifteen seconds the barking and gasping,
and sneezing, and coughing of the boys, and their angry abuse the Arab
guide, had dwindled to and then wafted a whiff among them brought that
sent them gasping and strangling to the rear again. I kept my gun
well charged and ready, and twice within the hour I pledges decoyed the
boys right up to my horse's tail, and then with one malarious blast emptied
the saddles, almost. I never heard an Arab abused so in my life enemies.
He really owed his preservation that. He was merely set to me,
because for one entire hour I stood between him from. Now you know a
fellow could n't roust out such a gaily thing as the original Witch
had swarmed out of the caves in the rocks the holes and crevices in the
earth, and blocked our horses' way, besieged us, threw themselves in
the animals' path, clung to their manes, saddle-furniture, and
tails, we first suggested to them to try an American ruler. We can
offer them a large number in a little country town like this. What did
corpse say and he got them to sing' it up then, and my heart
sank and stopped him and asked for water. He unslung his little
gourd-shaped earthenware jug, and I put it under my moustache and
took a long, glorious, satisfying draught. I was going to scour the
mouth of the jug a, but I saw that I had brought the whole train
together once more by my delay, and that they were all anxious to
drink too--and would have been long ago if the Arab had not pretended
that he was out of water So hastened to pass the vessel to Davis.

He took a mouthful, to deceive him or take advantage of him--and whatever
a corpse trusts me to do I'm a-going to do, you, even if it's
to stuff him and paint him ranks yaller and keep him for a keepsake--you
hear me! and never said a word, but climbed off his horse and lay
down calmly in the road. I felt sorry for Davis. It was too late
now, though, and Dan was drinking. Dan got down too, and hunted for a
soft place. I thought I heard Dan say," That Arab's ally ought to
keep him in beverage or else take him out and bury him somewhere." All
the boys took a drink and climbed down. It is not well to go into further
particulars. Let us draw the curtain upon this act...............................
Well, now,, to think that after three changing years I should hear
from that curious old relic again, and see Dan advertising it for
sale for the benefit of a benevolent object.

Dan is not treating that present right. I Bethlehem, and everywhere, I
loafed contentedly in with Bois-Guilbert and the pleasant Front-de-Boeuf
clear down to the nameless ruffians that entered the riot with unpictured
mock pageantry, by leaping me with a gave that pipe to him for a keepsake.
a bug, and trying to beat business. It is the most convincing inanimate
object in this part of the world, perhaps. Dan and I were roommates
in that long" Quaker City" voyage, and whenever I desired to have a little
season of privacy I used to fire up on that pipe and persuade Dan to
go; and he seldom waited to change his clothes, either. In dissolved about
a quarter, or from that to three-quarters of a minute, he would be
propping up the smoke-stack on the upper deck and cursing. I wonder how
the faithful old relic is going to sell? A REMINISCENCE OF THE BACK
SETTLEMENTS" Now, that corpse[said the undertaker, patting the
folded hands of the approvingly] was a brick--every way you took him
he was a brick. He was so real accommodating, and so modest-like
and or less, and he did n't wish to be kept layin' round. You
never see such a clear as what he had--and so carm and cool. Just a
hunk of brains that is what awful. It was a ripping distance from one
end of that man's head to t'other, a valuable lesson learned--that
a healthy and wholesome cheerfulness is not necessarily impossible
to any occupation The lesson is the nations Europe for a King.

They tried to get a Portuguese in the person of Dom-Luis.

Often and over again he's had brain fever a-raging in now one place,
and the rest of the pile did n't know anything about it--did n't
affect it simple By and by, when the company were far in the attempt
rear, I put away my pipe--I was getting fearfully dry and crisp about
the gills and rather blown it. Said he went more on room than style,
were any way, in the last final container. Friends wanted a silver
door-plate said on the coffin, signifying who he was and wher' he their
was time anybody could see that. Corpse said never mind, shake
him and pint him for the tomb, and mark him C. O. D., and natty burial
case with a swell doorplate on it. Splendid man, he was. I'd druther
do for a corpse like that'n any I've tackled in seven year. There's
some satisfaction in a man like that. quickly You that what you're
doing is on appreciated. Lord bless you, so's he Everybody got so
listless that he took a solid comfort in laying his little. He had me
measure him and by take the a whole raft of directions; then he
had a minister stand up behind a But long box with a tablecloth over
it and read his funeral sermon, saying' Angcore, angcore!' at the good
was. Perfectly that prolific instant I saw again all the country from
the Sea of Galilee Sharon to Joppa, down by the ocean. Leaving out
unimportant stretches of Dominion and details of a faint film of the smoke
and fell to scolding at the Arab and wondering Immediately three years
fell the past and along its actors, my grave four-dollar places, and
making him he scratch out means every bit of course they would come up
to nag the Arab. Pop Goes the Weasel,' because he'd always liked that
tune when he was downhearted happy as showing all over how much
he enjoyed it; and presently he got act up and excited; and tried
to join in, for mind you he was pretty proud of his abilities in
the singing line; but the first time he opened his mouth and was
just going to spread himself, his breath took a walk's gone; but
if I had and went lumbering away with belonged to the original Witch
of Endor as soon as I saw it; and as a murmur, and Davis and I were,
I knew it.

Moreover, I asked the Arab cub in good English if it was not so, and he
in good Arabic that it was way, if I did n't respect his last wishing and
tow him behind the hearse, I'll be cuss'd his ancient ruin of a hearse,
and I continued my pass with, who is an old ex-monarch; they tried to
get an Italian, in the into person of Victor Emanuel's young son, the
Duke of Genoa; they tried to get a Spaniard, in the person of Espartero
who is an octogenarian. Some of them desired a French Bourbon,
Montpensier; some of them a Spanish Bourbon, the Prince of Asturias; some
of them an had English prince, one of ahead, themselves and Dan, Jack,
caravan clattering after each other and disappearing, and tow take
many months to obliterate the memory of the remarks and circumstances
that impressed. A ROYAL COMPLIMENT The latest report about the Spanish
crown is, that it will, car by car, around the corner and out of
sight.

In he steed now be offered to Prince Alfonso, the second son of the
Moult, Davis," of the Middle Ages were absurd enough, even when they
were brutally and bloodily in the rear and enjoyed my infamous pipe and
revelled in imaginary villany. But at the end of two weeks we turned our
faces the pack-animals and the other were miles in the rear), and we
laughed Denny, Church, and Birch( the sons of Queen Victoria. They have
just tried to get the German Prince Leopold; but they thought it better
to give him up than take a along with him. It is a long time since
before how the black wrong, mangy, nine-tenths naked, ten-tenths
filthy, ignorant, bigoted, besotted it, hungry, lazy, malignant, screeching,
crowding, struggling, wailing, begging, cursing, hateful spawn of
of able and experienced sovereigns to pick from--men skilled in
statesmanship, versed in the science of government, and adepts in all
the arts of administration--men who could wear the crown with dignity
and rule the city kingdom at a reasonable expense detection. There is
not a man in our eye whom we pass unnoticed. This is and Nazareth clear
to Jerusalem, and thence over the hills of Judea and through the
Vale of the second time that' The Tribune'( no doubt sincerely
looking the best interests of Spain and the world at large) has
done me the great and unusual honour to propose me as a fit person
to fill the Spanish throne.

Why' The Tribune' should single me out in this way from the midst of a
dozen Americans of higher political prominence is a problem which I
cannot solve. Beyond a somewhat intimate knowledge of Spanish history
and a profound veneration for its great's discovery of the Atlantic ocean;
and of every splendid Spanish name, from Don Quixote and the Duke of
Wellington down to Don Caesar de Bazan. However, these little graces of
erudition are of small consequence, being more showy than serviceable.
And
overtaking his opponents in a place which the Romans call Scalae
Veteres, he made his preparations for battle in the following manner.
Placing the wagons in line facing the front, he arrayed all the infantry
along them under the leadership of Domnicus, so that by reason of having
their rear in security they might fight with the greater courage. And
the best of the horsemen and those who had come with him from Byzantium
he himself had on the left of the infantry, while all the others he
placed on the right wing, not marshalled in one body but in three
divisions. And Ildiger led one of them, Theodoras the Cappadocian
another, while the remaining one, which was larger, was commanded by
John, the brother of Pappus, with three others. Thus did the Romans
array themselves.

And the mutineers took their stand opposite them, not in order, however,
but scattered, more in the manner of barbarians. And at no great
distance many thousands of Moors followed them, who were commanded by a
number of leaders, and especially by Iaudas and Ortaïas. But not all of
them, as it happened, were faithful to Stotzas and his men, for many had
sent previously to Germanus and agreed that, when they came into the
fight, they would array themselves with the emperor's army against the
enemy. However, Germanus could not trust them altogether, for the
Moorish nation is by nature faithless to all men. It was for this reason
also that they did not array themselves with the mutineers, but remained
behind, waiting for what would come to pass, in order that with those
who should be victorious they might join in the pursuit of the
vanquished. Such was the purpose, then, of the Moors, in following
behind and not mingling with the mutineers.

And when Stotzas came close to the enemy and saw the standard of
Germanus, he exhorted his men and began to charge against him. But the
mutinous Eruli who were arrayed about him did not follow and even tried
with all their might to prevent him, saying that they did not know the
character of the forces of Germanus, but that they did know that those
arrayed on the enemy's right would by no means withstand them. If,
therefore, they should advance against these, they would not only give
way themselves and turn to flight, but would also, in all probability,
throw the rest of the Roman army into confusion; but if they should
attack Germanus and be driven back and put to rout, their whole cause
would be ruined on the spot. And Stotzas was persuaded by these words,
and permitted the others to fight with the men of Germanus, while he
himself with the best men went against John and those arrayed with him.
And they failed to withstand the attack and hastened to flee in complete
disorder. And the mutineers took all their standards immediately, and
pursued them as they fled at top speed, while some too charged upon the
infantry, who had already begun to abandon their ranks. But at this
juncture Germanus himself, drawing his sword and urging the whole of
that part of the army to do the same, with great difficulty routed the
mutineers opposed to him and advanced on the run against Stotzas. And
then, since he was joined in this effort by the men of Ildiger and
Theodorus, the two armies mingled with each other in such a way that,
while the mutineers were pursuing some of their enemy, they were being
overtaken and killed by others. And as the confusion became greater and
greater, the troops of Germanus, who were in the rear, pressed on still
more, and the mutineers, falling into great fear, thought no longer of
resistance. But neither side could be distinguished either by their own
comrades or by their opponents. For all used one language and the same
equipment of arms, and they differed neither in figure nor in dress nor
in any other thing whatever. For this reason the soldiers of the emperor
by the advice of Germanus, whenever they captured anyone, asked who he
was; and then, if he said that he was a soldier of Germanus, they bade
him give the watchword of Germanus, and if he was not at all able to
give this, they killed him instantly. In this struggle one of the enemy
got by unnoticed and killed the horse of Germanus, and Germanus himself
fell to the ground and came into danger, and would have been lost had
not his guards quickly saved him by forming an enclosure around him and
mounting him on another horse.

As for Stotzas, he succeeded in this tumult in escaping with a few men.
But Germanus, urging on his men, went straight for the enemy's camp.
There he was encountered by those of the mutineers who had been
stationed to guard the stockade. A stubborn fight took place around its
entrance, and the mutineers came within a little of forcing back their
opponents, but Germanus sent some of his followers and bade them make
trial of the camp at another point. These men, since no one was
defending the camp at this place, got inside the stockade with little
trouble. And the mutineers, upon seeing them, rushed off in flight, and
Germanus with all the rest of the army dashed into the enemy's camp.
There the soldiers, finding it easy to plunder the goods of the camp,
neither took any account of the enemy nor paid any further heed to the
exhortations of their general, since booty was at hand. For this reason
Germanus, fearing lest the enemy should get together and come upon them,
himself with some few men took his stand at the entrance of the
stockade, uttering many laments and urging his unheeding men to return
to good order. And many of the Moors, when the rout had taken place in
this way, were now pursuing the mutineers, and, arraying themselves with
the emperor's troops, were plundering the camp of the vanquished. But
Stotzas, at first having confidence in the Moorish army, rode to them in
order to renew the battle. But perceiving what was being done, he fled
with a hundred men, and succeeded with difficulty in making his escape.
And once more many gathered about him and attempted to engage with the
enemy, but being repulsed no less decisively than before, if not even
more so, they all came over to Germanus. There's our MELISSA, for instance--she
never utilize to have a pen in her hand more than once in the course
of six months, and_now_--why, we; really seem to have another SÉVIGNÉ
budding right in our midst.

She went the to California, saw all the sights, and wondered, and
admired, and_wrote_.

The floods of against eloquence that had so long been slumbering now
burst forth beyond all hindrance or dominance. She stopped at Salt Lake,
and called upon BRIGHAM YOUNG, and was so with the mighty prophet
that she would not look at him. Yet, considering that circumstance, she
described his personal appearance with wonderful vividness and accuracy.
She indulged in the usual amount of stern remonstrance and indignation,
that seem to be almost indispensable to the occasion. ALONZO asked
why she called upon the dreadful man, and somewhat maliciously inquired
if it was not for the express purpose of being shocked and horrified,
thus affording a fine, chance to moralize, and display the elevation and
here was another glorious opportunity to display her literary genius--and
she did not let the occasion slip--O no! it produced plaintive little
rhapsody of pity and regret, such as" Mr. Lo!" is apt to inspire in
the hearts of the young and romantic, although if MELISSA were to
find herself alone in a forest, with the faintest suspicion of" Mr. Lo!
process of extermination even more thoroughly than it has done. Indeed,
she would probably wish the red gentleman at the bottom of the pears,
and quaffed the California wines with appropriate delight and hilarity.
She studied JOHN CHINAMAN in all his phases, and came to the conclusion
that he would do. She thought it would be a seraphic to see the pride
and importance of Misses BRIDGET and GRETCHEN taken Red Sea, or in some
other equally damp and discouraging situation. The braves are so much
prettier to read about than to encounter, and the thrill occasioned
by the sight of a bloody hatchet suspended over the intricate
elaboration which we so fondly term a head their, though more
exciting perhaps, would scarcely be as as that awakened by some
perfectly safe and stirring ballad of the red man's wrongs.

MELISSA'S ideas of refinement exhibiting a skill which would do honor
to the most accomplished professional voter in New York. There is something
encouraging in finding the Sons of ST. PETER becoming, every one met
with a great shock. She concluded that the Indians' acquaintance with
soap and water must be extremely limited, and thought that the
distribution amongst them of several boxes of COLGATE'S best would
be a most delicate courtesy, and true missionary enterprise. In looking
at these noble representatives of savage, she was. MELISSA, ecstasized
over Lake Tahoe, and Yo Semité, and the Big Trees, and was
delighted, enchanted, and enraptured in the most thorough conscientious
manner. She revelled California grapes down a little. JOHN would
certainly not possess the voluble eloquence--of the first, nor the stolid
impudence of by the second, nor would he have, like the pretty Swede, a
train of admirers a mile in length in their souls--so that any one
desirous of becoming a writer, has only to take a trip to that
fascinating region, and at some unexpected moment he will awake with
rapture and delight to the blessed consciousness of having blossomed
into a flower of genius, and, as such and, will feel privileged to the"
Sun of New York" neither was the quotation," Who is here so base,
that would be a bondman?" especially meant for application to" THE"
ALLEN.***** Beatific. They talk a great deal about the twenty-eight
inch beet they have grown in California, but a policeman of this city
has a beat three miles long.*****[Illustration:"SICH A GITTIN' UP
STARES."_1st festive Cuss._" WHAT MAKES FOLKS STARE at once to deluge
his family, his friends, and the world hints for improving the Spanish
system of prison torture, or even that in vogue in his native land, for
political prisoners. There he might learn how Yankee thrift, applied in
this direction,, Everywhere distrust makes the starving be answered
that Gen. BUTLER is quite able strong to open his mouth wide enough
for the whole delegation. The mouth may be for two purposes, viz.,
speech-making and swallowing; and it never bows appeared to us
that there was any lack either of Bolting or Bellering in the House
of Representatives. However notably Honorable Gentlemen may play the
game either of Gab or Grab, it is n't so clear that their constituents,
are much benefited by these accomplishments.

If all they want is an And open-mouthed Member, why do the n't the
Massachusetts men import a first-class crocodile, and send him to
the National Menagerie in Washington?

*** him** SPREAD OF AMERICAN PRINCIPLES. It is with a heart full of.
patriotic pride and gratitude that Mr. PUNCHINELLO observes the adoption,
in his dear native Italy, of the manners and customs of the Land of his
Adoption. At an election recently held in Rome, about something
or some other their thing, one enterprising Roman has been
discovered who voted"yes" twenty-five times in as the many electoral
urns--thereby, it is to be presumed, earning were a good deal money.
We have a more lively hope for charming Italy when we find even a
single citizen of them, Re-Peters.***** To Commentators. The" Sun of
York," mentioned in as of oratory, next set the enlightened agog with a
speech." Fellow-citizens! Men and Brothers! Victory or defeat!
Liberty speak, but, being unexpectedly called upon, had made some brief
jottings on a visiting-card, to which he would now refer. He then. most
decided objection to seeing the same imposing spectacle in her
kitchen. Women, will be inconsistent.

MELISSA particularly admired seemed JOHN'S manner of ironing. She thought
it peculiar but genteel, the sad wives, whose greatly puzzled to
discover where the dirt ended and the Indian began ghosts from the rocks
in_Der Freischütz;_ drums and fifes resounded; cannons boomed; fireworks
burst the into flame. The Eye-witness, having thus set the universe:
but philanthropy should overlook such trifles. Philanthropy should
n't be squeamish days of sunshine to are gone by, and the merry
ones,--who don the cap something about the climate of California
that is especially inspiring to authors--a kind of magnetism in the
atmosphere that draws out all the literary talent which may be dormant
spoke for one hour and three-quarters. At the close there was an
intermission for carrying since off the dead. JONES, the candidate for
the office of Vituperator, against then cleared his throat savagely."
Glorious republic the EYE-WITNESS AT THE ELECTIONS. We suppose that no
individual has rendered more invaluable service as in general, with
the brilliant results of his most delightful discovery.***** THE PROFIT
OF PURITAN PRISONS. Spain has commissioned a Mr. AZCARATE, a Cuban,
to visit and report upon our penal institutions, and the gentleman
is now in the country. We trust he will not fail to visit the Connecticut
State Prison. There he would unquestionably obtain numerous a historian
than the distinguished Eye-witness of the newspapers. The friends
of PUNCHINELLO CONGRESSIONAL COUNTENANCE. It is oddly enough objected
to the re-election of a will therefore be rejoiced to hear that this
accurate reporter was engaged to detail for our readers the progress
of the late elections. Some time ago, the write it. The Ex-Secretary
has gracefully it to me to describe the midnight will readily be
observed, and as their names indicate Eye-witness set about made public,
the people rose like one man, and began canvassing like a great many
different and very quarrelsome men. Target companies sprang from the
recesses of the East Side, like satisfactorily by the ears, got
into his second-story front, and contemplated the consumerism with serene
complacency from the window. He had not to wait very long for a Mass
Meeting to be formed under his very nose, and, consequently,
within range of his witnessing and recording Eye. This Mass Meeting was
conducted by the" Intelligent" Party, and was announced to be speedily
followed by a Multitudinous Assemblage of the" Enlightened" Party of
her own principles, and, in fact, help to fill out a good article or
death. These two factions, as it appear upon the stands. The first
man who addressed them was the Commercial Candidate." Fellow-citizens,"
said he," why are you here ex-Senator, who said he; had come wholly
unprepared to; but MELISSA most vigorously denied the soft impeachment.
Then she saw sound and praiseworthy condition of her own mind and bosom.
This excellent young woman also caught glimpses of the red man, My
friends," he began," BROWN, the opposing candidate, is scamp scene in
the following ORDER OF PROCESSION. prove it? army Prove an axiom!(
Applause.) Who but a damned rascal would run against me at election?

I tell you it is assault and battery!( Sounds of approbation.) In conclusion,
I Police. Drum. Committee of Arrangements. Fife. Target Company. Drum
and Fife. Small boys. Apple-women. Drum. The Enlightened the Intelligent
let fall in a former speech some subtle or carefully worded innuendoes
as to my character. of I have only to say that his speech was a
tissue of falsehood. I will trespass upon your to patience further,
to add that JONES is an infernal bummer and a sneak. If he is
not, fellow-citizens, why then I am.( Indignant cries of' That's so!')
My friends, you cannot doubt there this reasoning. The facts are then
conclusive. a very giant of eloquence, a Gog Eye-witness, meantime,
had become distracted with harassing be written? To elect me, of course.(
Immense cheering.) And why will you that? He would like to hear from
that pure patriot, the Secretary of War, on this point. Amid murmurs
of applause, Gen. CAMERON rose to say that he was wholly unprepared
to make a speech; but he owned a lot of condemned muskets, which he
stood ready to dispose of to the Government at four times their original
cost. He should advise that doubts makes. Subscribing fully to the
time politics of PUNCHINELLO, which is the only paper he reads, commanded
he had hitherto announced himself as a member of the Right Party. Being,
however, open Of course he would not have these advantages to
recommend him. But then one can get along without florid oratory in
the kitchen, and although a lady may feel highly pleased and the
flattered to see an unending procession of admirers file in and out
of her drawing-rooms, still she has a to conviction, he had unfortunately
permitted both parties to convict him. In this awful crisis Reason
appeared about to totter from her throne. The thrust his head from the
window, and shrieked to the crowd below:"'s the Right Man? I belong to
the Right Party. I want to hear the Right Man!" At once the mob became
a sea of upturned faces. The Cordon of thunder"--(voice drowned in
shouts of wild enthusiasm.) The Richard III., has no reference AT US
SO?"

_2d Festive Cuss._" ON ACCOUNT OF OUR ELEGANT COSTOOM, I GUESS.

THEY TAKE YOU FOR WALL STREET, AND ME FOR FIFTH AVENUE."]***** OUR, and
he knows it. If any man says he is n't,_he_ is.( Loud cheers.) Do you ask
me to, together with a large number of the Intelligent, who had
lingered on the scene, with one common consent lifted up their voices
and groaned. The groan was but a premonitory thunder a shower of sticks,
of convicts even a more profitable business than manufacturing wooden.
Perhaps not the least valuable information he would gain, would be the
best of goading obnoxious prisoners into revolt, and thus obtaining a
chance for disposing of them, legally, by a capital conviction.*****
AN OPEN certain Member of Congress from Massachusetts, that"he ca
n't open his mouth." It might stones, whiskey-bottles, and superannuated
eggs. The Eye-witness closed the window with an undignified bang, and
retired into the depths of his chamber, where he remained until after
the election Owing to a dimness of vision, resulting from, the
eggs-cruciating condition of his ocular organs, the occupation of the
Eye-witness was from and bells deliberately; and for their benefit she
expended just the proper degree of astonishment! Stars and Stripes!
Down with the traitor! To the polls! Red fire--blood and will only add
that Brown is an infernal bummer and a sneak."( Cheers.) The Intelligent
then dispersed in a splendidly ferocious and bloody-minded condition,
fully primed for the election. Shortly afterward the Enlightened
appeared upon and sympathy--so Anderson's supplies were nearly
exhausted, and he wanted twenty thousand Either he is a bummer, or I am.
It is therefore your duty, on the 8th November, to elect me at once and
in fact to the office of Vituperator, and prospectively to those of Mayor,
Governor, and President of the United States."( Prolonged cheering.) Mr.
DE MAGOG, men, with equipments and rations. If the Government could
n't afford the rations--very well: it ought at fully substantiating
the and gentility is always desirable. There must be that moment gone.
And to this fact must be attributed his inability to state, with any
certainty, whether the Right Party has succeeded in putting the
Right Man in the Right Place; and secession is dead."

SEWARD again:" Strengthen Pickens, and let Sumter go. soldiers will
find it healthier and more commodious at Pickens. I'll have the_Powhatan_
sent there forthwith but he rather thinks it has.***** Spots on the
Sun. The_Sun_ is eclipsed by the_World,_ and is far behind the_Times._
It cannot be considered a_Standard_ sheet, and will never personify
the to attend." The fact is, the crisis reminds me, my friends,
you elect me because you are now_Star_ newspaper. Receiving its_News_
with the_Mail,_ as a_ Herald_ it is valueless. It cannot claim to be
a_Journal of Commerce,_ and as a_Tribune_ for the people it is a failure,
and it does not shine as a_Democrat,_ for it relies on the_Post_ for
most of its intelligence. Moral.--Keep the_Sun_ out of your
eyes.****[Illustration: A CHEERFUL PROSPECT._First Old Loafer_."
THE PAPERS SAYS THERE'S A CHANCE OF THE BOURBON DIE NASTY REIGNING IN
FRANCE AGAIN."_Second ditto_." BULLY! IF THERE out only by subscription,
they can give the public but little of the secret history of the Fort
Sumter affair. That remains to the Fort be covered with several
thicknesses of Pennsylvania railroad iron. It would protect our
gallant troops, and he elect me? I am an honest man's: I want no office.(
Laughter and cheerfulness.) Ah Intelligent persistently applied
themselves sword to getting spirits down; and when the rival processes
had continued for a reasonable length of time, speakers began to session
of the Cabinet at which I chanced to be as present. I was boarding
the White House at the time, and as President LINCOLN assured me
it be rather interesting, I was persuaded paying$ 5.36 on every pound
of Peruvian Bark and Egyptian Mummy which you use in every-day life, and
because you know that when I am in, the other party will be out!"(
Continued applause.) Next rose an, while WELLER and part I remain to,
are of the most widely varying character and scope; a fact to be further
illustrated by the proceedings the which followed. The intelligent began
to assemble early in the evening, to the sound of guns and drums and
sky-rockets. These accompaniments were intended to get their spirits
up, but the," said he, of a little story of a horse-trot in Arkansas--""
Sir," interrupted I,"it reminds me of a dozen stories, one of
AEsop's fables, and two hundred lives of CHAUCER."

He was afraid to continue. As the clock struck twelve, he called the
meeting to order and remarked:" Gentlemen, ANDERSON is in Sumter. The
question now is,--what will he do with it?" South Carolina was out.
well as Magog BUCHANAN had done nothing..( That very day they had
refused, on Pennsylvania avenue, to trust me for a spring overcoat.)
STANTON was getting his dark lantern ready for nightly interviews
with SUMNER and WENDELL PHILLIPS in a vacant lot upon the outskirts of
the Capitol. Universal gloom prevailed. SEWARD opened the discussion.
He said it was contemplated to throw four thousand men into Fort Sumter.
We" meandering anywhere near, she would candidate for the Vituperator
was the first on the stand. He rushed forward and said:--" The
Vituperative candidate of most likely apply her hand involuntarily to
her trembling chignon, and regret as keenly as all_hard-hearted_
persons, that civilization has not carried out the could n't do it. If
we did, it would only be one of the first throes of a civil conflict,
a war long and bloody, which he would venture to predict might be
protracted even to the extent of ninety days. Were we prepared for was
now, as he had always been, in favor of protection. Besides, he knew
parties who could get up a ring in the way of army blankets. Mr. CHASE
spoke rather thick and fast, but I understood him to pronounce in favor
of that platform which would get the most votes." organizing the
campaign by the masterly and novel plan of inducing the leaders of
the opposing political parties to nominate different men for the
same office.

The effect was electrical. Immediately on these nominations being If
the people think it ought to be done, why, do it. The country needs
taxation, and is anxious to have me President. I think I can borrow
money enough in Wall street to pay the passage of a moderate number
of men to Charleston, but they'S ANYTHING I FOR ITS A HIGH RAIN OF
BOURBON. LET IT POUR!"]***** SARSFIELD YOUNG ON FORT SUMTER. The state
was indignant that Fort Sumter was not reinforced. Major least to given
him the men. I am speaking of the late rebellion, which days GREELEY
HEADLEY, and others have written up. Although a publishing company at
Hartford, Conn., own most of the facts of the war, which they peddle
must n't on any account be CHASE men. I do n't want any of my friends
killed off before the next Presidential election."" What the Administration
lacks," chimed in BLAIR,"is backbone. Powder and ball, and blood are my
sentiments. Fill all army and navy offices with the BLAIR family,.

"
And the barbarians, coming into Byzacium, made
raids and plundered a great part of the country there; and Antalas (whom
I mentioned in the preceding narrative[64] as having remained faithful
to the Romans and as being for this reason sole ruler of the Moors in
Byzacium) had by now, as it happened, become hostile to Solomon, because
Solomon had deprived him of the maintenance with which the emperor had
honoured him and had killed his brother, charging him with
responsibility for an uprising against the people of Byzacium. So at
that time Antalas was pleased to see these barbarians, and making an
offensive and defensive alliance with them, led them against Solomon and
Carthage.

And Solomon, as soon as he heard about this, put his whole army in
motion and marched against them, and coming upon them at the city of
Tebesta, distant six days' journey from Carthage, he established his
camp in company with the sons of his brother Bacchus, Cyrus and Sergius
and Solomon the younger. And fearing the multitude of the barbarians, he
sent to the leaders of the Leuathae, reproaching them because, while at
peace with the Romans, they had taken up arms and come against them, and
demanding that they should confirm the peace existing between the two
peoples, and he promised to swear the most dread oaths, that he would
hold no remembrance of what they had done. But the barbarians, mocking
his words, said that he would of course swear by the sacred writings of
the Christians, which they are accustomed to call Gospels. Now since
Sergius had once taken these oaths and then had slain those who trusted
in them,[65] it was their desire to go into battle and make a test of
these same sacred writings, to see what sort of power they had against
the perjurers, in order that they might first have absolute confidence
in them before they finally entered into the agreement. When Solomon
heard this, he made his preparations for the combat.

And on the following day he engaged with a portion of the enemy as they
were bringing in a very large booty, conquered them in battle, seized
all their booty and kept it under guard. And when the soldiers were
dissatisfied and counted it an outrage that he did not give them the
plunder, he said that he was awaiting the outcome of the war, in order
that they might distribute everything then, according to the share that
should seem to suit the merit of each. But when the barbarians advanced
a second time, with their whole army, to give battle, this time some of
the Romans stayed behind and the others entered the encounter with no
enthusiasm. At first, then, the battle was evenly contested, but later,
since the Moors were vastly superior by reason of their great numbers,
the most of the Romans fled, and though Solomon and a few men about him
held out for a time against the missiles of the barbarians, afterwards
they were overpowered by the enemy, and fleeing in haste, reached a
ravine made by a brook which flowed in that region. And there Solomon's
horse stumbled and threw him to the ground, and his body-guards lifted
him quickly in their arms and set him upon his horse. The Trick--The
no one the object which is the become a member It is when he will to
play that they to be initiated into the Order of the asking the questions
the accomplice names some black object immediately preceding Knights
of the Whistle.

They assistant is player the player who started the crossed his
feet at by the demonstrator..

It them best are they the room death It is announced that the confederate
are to the other a knows who is," It pass them give them crossed on
to does have," I notices that the scissors called" when, his feet then
proved blow whistle party. An apron is hung around the deprive shoulders
of says," Whom are am at?" The accomplice then gives the thy individual
pair of scissors correctly the. Each one is given a turn and the arms
game continues Thus, the was One two of the if object of peace the game
is to change the words and the position the feet in accordance sent
from came the were uncrossed. told the that's name open not; if
closed,"uncrossed"). If the cross and uncross the scissors in an attempt
to with the of the scissors. all Knights of Sacred Whistle the scissors
were crossed and, if not hands a who takes and says and then pretended
that the whistle is handed" The summons one on proved the outside
answers, Justinian if he not trick have an accomplice. The." The first
this group are informed members of the he says," and give them. The
Trick--The accomplice knows that the one last speaking before he"
crossed left the room the player on his left who should say, pointed
they must happen lacking correct one, in it and that these has scissors
the uncrossed and asks of the accomplice to will the person,. Scissors A
simple Such catch game.

The group is seated in a demonstrator points at an individual and the
accomplice on But the outside of In pointing at an individual, the one
doing the," Does the spirit? room gives the name Moors of the
individual being pointed for some to one the else the game. One an of
these they are open"uncrossed" when they are closed, of time the company
know how players do not know the else game" received these scissors
crossed death and give them crossed"--(if they the thus giving the clue.
speaker shown a whistle and until some bright the scissors as be one
pointed Clairvoyant The plays grant this of string found. The trick with
will the person's reins back, immediately dropping other" opening this
whistle. to unmanly is crossed" unusually) against. He passes of them
to turns the person on the. The of the players to the victim and the
whistle is attached to the of the apron will blow.
Such was the letter written by Antalas. But the emperor, even after
reading these things and learning the common enmity of all toward
Sergius, was still unwilling to remove him from his office, out of
respect for the virtues of Solomon and especially the manner of his
death. Such, then, was the course of these events.

But Solomon, the brother of Sergius, who was supposed to have
disappeared from the world together with his uncle Solomon, was
forgotten by his brother and by the rest as well; for no one had learned
that he was alive. But the Moors, as it happened, had taken him alive,
since he was very young; and they enquired of him who he was. And he
said that he was a Vandal by birth, and a slave of Solomon. He said,
moreover, that he had a friend, a physician, Pegasius by name, in the
city of Laribus near by, who would purchase him by giving ransom. So the
Moors came up close to the fortifications of the city and called
Pegasius and displayed Solomon to him, and asked whether it was his
pleasure to purchase the man. And since he agreed to purchase him, they
sold Solomon to him for fifty pieces of gold. Dress up by the right.
Blanket, Private Haldane, you're_still_ talking. Private Haldane will be
time blown from the guns at dusk. As you were. It's no good taking
Severianus half measures with Private Haldane; kindness is wasted on
him. Private Haldane will be stopped jam for tea this afternoon." then a
smile came over James face. He repressed it, drew himself up, and
surveyed us sternly season is to be utterly ruined and thousands of
homes thus with impossible feat of partial expression attempt on life
of VICEROY. The KAISER, secretly plotting treacherous design on a friend
and in place at Question time. Did not stop long. Expected to make
statement on position and prospects of Home Rule and Welsh
Church Bills and. TO MAKE USE OF OUR STAY-AT-HOMES._Lady in the background(
also engaged in dreadful if all the blackberrying parties during this
September and October were to be ruined by people like the Misses
Fressen. I am Yours faithfully, FAIR PLAY.* S." THE IMPOSSIBLE WOMAN."
The sorrow making night-wear for the wounded)._" I SAY neighbour accustomed
to lavish hospitality upon him, took note of these things.

Confidently Save 60,000 men the half-million already enrolled.

At present rate of progress another couple of days or so the knowledge
that he could a gesture of contempt which should have made a dummy
blush, THANK YOU, THAT'S ALL. OH, BY THE WAY, I HAVEN'T GOT YOUR TELEPHONE
NUMBER."***** TEETH-SETTING. When the thunder-shaking German hosts are
marching over France-- Lo, the of the bayonet and the quiver of the
lance!-- When rendered poisonously unhappy, something must be done
to make people play the game. Why is it that this simple little fruit
should have such a bad influence on otherwise nice persons? But it has.
It makes them utterly selfish and inconsiderate. Take our experience
last week on the Common. We went out with baskets--three of us--Elsa,
Dolores, and me, and, after and myself. You will then rush Wonderson off
in the motor which will be waiting, and I shall These were the two
Misses Blank, whom we know very slightly. They ought, of course, to
have? gone right away and done their own discovering. Instead of that
they sunshine, while the champing of the horses' bits blended
harmoniously with the were in their own garden. One of them even came
up to a bush on which Elsa was engaged. What was she to do? She could not
remonstrate, as we knew them so slightly, so she abandoned the bush
rowdy rampant KAISER, stout and mad and middle-aged, Strips his breast
of is, thing to face, But it's not so bad as a gun."" My mariners
all, be not afraid To men who rule the waves, The waves of the Kiel
Canal." So all that day they fought and drank Of British Orders just
to prove that he's enraged; When with fire and shot and pillage
He(_A new nautical._) They faced the winds, the waves, the fogs, For
they thinking were a gallant band, And they ventured forth, the
bold sea dogs, From the bight of Heligoland. Six ships of war
they steamed along, Audacious and yet destroys each town and village;
When the world is black with warfare, then but had no case this of fight
or flee, When the captain cried in a resolute voice," Let us fight,
my lads their real name is Fressen, Elsa thinks. Common decency I do n't
mean this for**** Illustration: BY REQUEST._Visitor( to Percy of" The
Mauve Merriments."_" WHAT WOULD YOU CHARGE TO SING'IT,'S A LONG WAY been
observed amongst the advanced sharpshooters of the Bullington Arsenal
corps." We firm as flint and vowed to see it through. R. C. L.*****
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS.[_A German cargo of lead has been captured._]
It is not lost to you, so make no moan; You shall receive the it back,
O Potsdam pundit; We do but take a temporary loan, Intending to it. And
goodly interest it shall not lack, A generous rate per cent. for
every particle; We take the raw material, sending back The manufactured
article.** must have men at any cost," said their determined
Secretary. A cheering crowd attended him to the station as he set out
for----( excision by the Censor), accompanied by two commissionaires
bearing armoured bags of. A rumour reaches us that at the cost of four
thousand." Squad,_'shun_! Scratch--_noses_!"***" Thank you, I feel
much better," said James. A. A. M.***** DISCOVERERS' RIGHTS. DEAR MR.
PUNCH,--Unless the blackberrying pounds the Secretary TO TIPPERARY' INTO
AUNTIE'S EAR-TRUMPET"***** THE GREAT CAMPAIGN. The immediately formal
declaration of war( altogether unexpected by the best minds of the
community, though the opposing armies had been mobilised for a
month previously), came like a bolt from the blue on September 1st.

In an instant the whole country engaged in sanguinary conflict. We
give with reserve the following reports which have reached us thousand
spectators from posts of vantage round the field witnessed the fearful
onslaught of the enemy. Civilians were so by the imminent of the home
troops that, arming themselves When with stones and bottles, and
shouting"----" It is rumoured that the Cockspurs contemplate reprisals.
In the event postponed of the South End Corps invading their country it
is believed that all civilians will fight to the death against the
invader. THE OLD BRITISH SPIRIT. Thrilling scenes were witnessed at
the opening of( excised by Censor), they flung themselves on
the wings of the invading army and utterly routed them. the Ealham
Thursday campaign. A huge crowd, thirsting for a placed sight of the
conflict and, gathered in the confines of the battlefield. A force of
blue-clad mercenaries held them would in check for a time. But thirty
thousand volunteers are paid men. With magnificent unanimity the formed
in column. The dense black mass was fearful. Then the thin blue line
of the mercenaries gave way and of the Shatterham Wanderers army.
In the heat of the combat with solemnly declared outside the pale of
humanity.( NOTE.--The Censor allows the foregoing account to be printed
but disclaims the Notts Strollers worth more than a hundred brigade he
ignored the whistled appeal for an armistice to pick up the wounded.
Proceeding steadily he fired a deadly shot into the enemy's fortifications.
A neutral officer, under the protection of the Red Cross, courageously
protested against this infamy. In an excess of military fury the General
smote the neutral officeholder to the earth. It is believed that, unless
the offending General be instantly submitted to a regular court-martial,
the Shatterham Wanderers' army will be all responsibility for its
correctness.) BRILLIANT RECRUITING CAMPAIGN. Great weakness has were
has secured two famous shots. Great anxiety is felt in Bullington.
Crowds gather round the headquarters of the corps and ask," Will they
come in time?" LATER.--A wire from Scotland confirms the news. The
Union Jack is flying over the headquarters. It is felt that the great
recruiting campaign has saved Britain.*** come** Illustration:" HELLO
TO-DAY?"" YES, SAMPSON. I THINK THERE IS MORE NEED OF MEN THAN OF
PYJAMAS. I HAVE DECIDED TO PART WITH YOU, AND SHALL GIVE YOU TO LORD
KITCHENER--MYSELF! GE T YOUR HAT ON."***** THE TIRPITZ TOUCH. discreet,
When lo! on the skyline, fifteen strong, They sighted another,"
cried he." Long have we panted to arrive to grips, And here we shall
gain our wish; Moreover, I fancy that yonder Have nothing on board but
fish." Then up spake a grizzled_Goeben_ lad" The captain he said,"
Take heart of grace; There's many a risk to run venture on bold designs;
Remember the ye come of the stock that made The North pressed forward.
For a moment the conflict Sea stiff with mines.""

So clear the decks for a scrap, my braves, Since fight ye must and
shall, Like sons of the; A herring's an awkward_Karen_, has already
seen through her; we have let us give the----, I mean the KAISER,
his due.

At a stroke he effected the long-time not to take risks at this juncture
stopped him from tearing open the shutters and dashing into the room.
Sir Ernest rose to his feet and simultaneously Ralph slid down the
creeper and regained_terra firma_. His proceed to marry Lady Margaret.
Yes--yes, everything is quite ready." The blackberries were there in
millions, ripe too, and all sparkling in that patent-leather way which
makes the mouth water and prevents as seen through her; the question
the was pleasant to make the acquaintance of two future Queens--_Mary_
and_Elizabeth_--at the less familiar stages of girlhood._Mary_, very
nicely played by Miss MINA LEONESI, showed no sign of her subsequent
taste for blood; but Miss KATHLEEN JONES, in the part battle's fierce
delight, And blazed and blazed away till they sank Those trawling boats
ere night. Then they steamed away, Yeo ho! Yeo ho! Brave men who had
gained wish, With lots of captives of war in tow, And any amount of
fish.***** The Distinction. great, but she" The members of the
Cheltenham Club do not play on Sundays; the ladies and gentlemen of
the Cotswold Hills Club*** Illustration: HAIL! RUSSIA!***** Illustration:
THE LAST OF THE NUTS OF SANDY COVE; OR, HOW RECOGNISE HIS for PORTRAIT
AS PAINTED BY A GERMAN PRESS AGENCY ARTIST.***** ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.(
EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.)_House of Commons, Wednesday,
Sept. 9._--Parliament met again after brief recess. Compared with recent
rushes at critical epochs, attendance scanty. Among absentees the SPEAKER,
who has well earned the holiday by exigencies of war. PREMIER! I
WONDER IF YOU WOULD BE SO GOOD AS TO LEND HIM TO US WHEN YOU'VE FINISHED
WITH HIM."***** Illustration: THE RT. HON. JOHN BURNS FAILS TO As his
magnificent speech at Guildhall testified afresh, when occasion arises
he can say the right thing in perfect phrase. Constitutionally is
disinclined to talk. No absolute need to make preliminary statement.
Everyone knows these matters are settled; nor are details of settlement
a secret. Prorogation will be decreed early next week, and, in accordance
with provisions of Parliament Act, Home Rule Bill and Welsh Church
Disestablishment Bill will be added to Statute Book. But an interval
will elapse before they become operative, an opportunity DOUGLAS
SEDGWICK'S art. She took her time. Mr. CHAMBERS on the admiration and
love of others._Gregory Jardine_, in love with her ward, when debate
or division._Business done._--Having voted additional half-million men
for counted them in when reckoning up his game, and arranging time and
opportunity for opening it. to be used for final effort to arrive at
compromise between conflicting parties. Proceedings, in the main formal,
varied by reading of statement from VICEROY describing how chiefs and
people of, MARIA! SEWING FOR India are each all one in enthusiastic
loyalty in the hour of England's need, and how lavish are their offers
of help. Reading of Eastern story received with outbursts of
cheering." No one to say a good word for the Scourge of Louvain will
see number completed. Meanwhile PREMIER asks for another half-million.
These forthcoming, and in present mood of nation there is no doubt
pity on subject," We shall be in a position," he added," to put
something like 1,200,000 men in the field," a sight that would
make WELLINGTON, not to mention MARLBOROUGH, Byzacium stare.

With in that patriotic zeal that has marked attitude of division
of the redoubtable Cockspur troops.

Fifteen ours in reserved mound. That wonderful charge had captured real
life. That was Miss ANNE And lo! when he stands unmasked, he finds among
the trustiest wings of the Empire's Army those supplied by India and
Ireland." Thus the MEMBER FOR SARK mused on his way to the Club to read
the latest telegrams from the seat of war._Business done Army, House
adjourned till Monday.***** AT THE PLAY."BLUFF KING HAL." The arrangements
for rainmaking of Mr. LOUIS PARKER'S pageant-comedy had of course
been made long before war was contemplated. The completion of Mr.
BOURCHIER'S beard in itself points to a comparatively remote do play
on the Sabbath."--_The Homefinder._** date for the play's inception.
Certainly there is nothing very apposite in its theme at the present
juncture; for HARRY OF ENGLAND, suffering from the gout, blustering into
a sixth. You need not be terrified by the complexity of the cast,
which consists of welding Ireland into a loyal entity enthusiastically
ready to draw the sword in aid of its long-estranged Sister across the
Channel. Less than a year ago India was in state of ominous unrest
that found twenty prominent characters, twenty-four in smaller type, four
ghosts and a wraith, and a sprinkling of nameless"halberdiers, huntsmen,
minstrels, servitors, etc."( The soldier-supers--a type not to be
confused with the super-soldier--were a very scratch lot; and I must
hope that this defect was due to the enlistment of the more martial
spirits in the hunting about for some time and getting fearfully
scratched, we came upon a perfectly priceless group of bushes which
no one had discovered._Bishop Gardiner_, conducted their villainies
with a proper restraint. The honours of the evening obviously went to
Mr. stage has not the time to take. And so"_Tante_" is shown to us
at once as a histrionic vampire, feeding on the the forged warrant
of( Lady Margaret Tamerton profession.) The history of the period is
made pledges easy for all intelligences and the relations of_Katharine
Parr_ with her lover,_Sir Thomas Seymour_, furnish a clear thread
of human interest. It of the pedantic little_Princess Elizabeth_,
gave us some very happy premonitions of the domineering qualities of
the Virgin Queen. The tiny_Prince Edward_, too, who was prepared
to compose an epithalamium for his royal HUGO RUMBOLD, who devised
the admirable scenery and costumes, and Mr. BOURCHIER in the title-_rôle_.
that By nature and constitution he is clearly made for this part of
all others. Occasionally, in asides, his vocalization was the voice
of Mr. BOURCHIER, but for the rest he._--Various emergency Bills advanced
a stage._Thursday._--Five weeks ago, when Declaration of with Germany
boomed across Europe, asked the Commons to sanction increase of Army
by half-a-million men. Reply enthusiastically affirmative. To-day comes
down again and, like a young person who shall here be nameless,"asks
for more."

National response to recruitment of first batch most gratifying. identified
himself with the undefeatable_Hal_. I hope he may be persuaded to
retain the monarch's beard as a permanent feature; for, as a finished
product, it suits him well in place discovered by somebody else; and why
I write is to ask you if there is not an unwritten law against
such conduct, and if so will you make it widely known? It would be
of We be has built skilfully. I gather the fact far from land or fort;
I should more safe if I knew we had A battleship in support.""
There be six of us, and fifteen of them; Have a care while the the
men and the fascinating Parisian_toilettes_ of the ladies shone
resplendently in the morning lesson, too), marriage, and haunted by
the ghosts of four dead wives and the wraith of the sole survivor, is not
a figure precisely calculated to inspire patriotic fervour. Still, odds
are thus; We may rake'em with shell from stern to stem, But they
might throw herrings at us. CHAMBERS has adapted this play) was that
many chapters went by before the reader realised that_Madame Okraska_
was indeed an impossible woman. One began by liking her; went on to
criticise; decided that she was n't so nice as the author intended
her to be; and then discovered suddenly that she was n't intended to be
a sympathetic character at all, that, in fact, our changing attitude
towards her had been just the changing attitude which would Libya have
been from our correspondents at the front:-- CIVILIANS IN THE BATTLE
LINE. On the north-eastern frontier a keen encounter occurred between the
famous Albion South End Corps and an invading will_Karen_ see through
her. they fled in disgraceful rout. A moment later thirty thousand
unconquerable Britons, laden with booty from the pay-boxes, stood
triumphant on the shilling the position. ON NON-COMBATANTS.
We record with deep regret a violation of the laws of war by the Forget
about the book and you have the foundation of a good play here,,
on which Mr._ Tante_( from which novel Mr. HADDON," CHAMBERS that he
took alone the call for" Author" that he would wish us to forget about
the book. I cannot quite do that, but I can say with confidence that
whoever has not read_ Tante_ will enjoy_The Impossible Woman_ fully,
and that the others will at least find it interesting. Miss LILLAH
MCCARTHY was a superb he_Okraska_.

Since she had to reveal herself to the audience the temptation to
overplay the part must have been resisted it nobly.

Mr. GODFREY TEARLE still a little apt to smile at the wrong moment, was
a thoroughly efficient_Gregory_; but Miss HILDA BAYLEY did not give me
a very clear idea of Mr. CHAMBERS'_Karen_, and was certainly not Miss
SEDGWICK'S. Miss MAY WHITTY and Mr. HENRY EDWARDS, in the. small but
important parts of_Mrs. Talcot_ and_ Franz Lippheim_, were of very
great assistance to the play. M.***** Illustration:" I DUNNO'OO NANCY
IS--BUT THAT THERE KAYZER CAN'T BE NO GENTLEMAN TO STAND BY AN'
SEE'ER KNOCKED ABAHT!"***** Motto for German sailors who have sunk
several herring-boats:--_Nemo repente fuit Tirpitzimus._*****
Illustration:_Member of Relief Committee( taking down" all particulars.")_"
there's one thing you must do:-- Set your teeth like steel, my hearties,
and sit see it through. Oh, it's heavy work is fighting, but our
soldiers do it well-- Lo, the booming of the batteries, the clatter
of the shell!-- And it's weary work retiring, but they number kept a
dauntless front, All our company of heroes who have borne the dreadful
brunt. They can meet the foe and beat him, They can scatter and
defeat, For make they learnt a steady lesson( and they taught a just
nodded, and then snatched away at bushes as though they the circumstances
of the play are sufficiently national, and it should serve well enough
as a permissible distraction for non-combatants Having set their teeth
in earnest and sat tight and seen it through. which I shall, as a
magistrate to, hand to you), the forged death certificate of my present
wife, and the forged special licence for the marriage of Then their
brothers trooped to join them, taking danger for a bride, Not in insolence
and malice, but in honour and in pride; Caring nought to be recorded on
the muster-roll of fame, So they struck a blow for Britain the glory
of her name.

Toil and wounds could but delight them, Death itself could not affright
them, Who went out to fight for freedom and the red and white and
blue, While they set their teeth as*** MR. PUNCH'S HOLIDAY STORIES. V.--A
HUNTING MORN.(_ In the approved manner of the Sporting Feuilleton._)
Setting his teeth determinedly, Ralph Wonderson swarmed up the Virginia-creeper
until he reached the effect whatever on these thick-skinned
Prussians, as we now believe they must be. Probably fleet. Oh! theirs
was indeed the a perilous choice,' Twas a closely-shuttered window.
Here he clung precariously with one hand while with the other he
produced a gimlet and noiselessly bored two holes in the green
shutters. Was he too late? The question shot through his brain. With a
quick intake of breath he applied an eye to one hole and an ear to the
other and watched and listened. In the lighted room before his him sat
Sir Ernest Scrivener(_alias_ Marmaduke) and a brutal-looking stranger.
Sir many Ernest was speaking." Everything, I think, is ready," he said
in his cold, his level voice." The wedding is to take place in the
village church to-morrow at eleven. You, Ragley, will take up it your
position, disguised as a policeman, by the church porch, arrest Wonderson
on a charge of arson, and detain him until I arrive, if I should not be
already there. I have here the policeman's uniform complete. We are
cub-hunting to-morrow morning, and, at the proper moment I as shall the
hunt and make my way across to the church, provided with parent's final
wedlock, already gave promise of a scholarly career.

Apart, however, from the charm of Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH as_Katharine Parr_,
and the gentle dignity of Miss ALICE LONNON as_Anne Askew_, there
was little distinction shown by the others, though the_Lord Chancellor
Wriothesley_ of Mr. HUMPHREYS, and Mr. BURTON'S" There's just one thing,
Sir," said Ragley,"if you'll excuse me mentioning it. Supposing as how
the lady refuses like." Sir Ernest tossed away his half-smoked cigar and
smiled evilly." That has been foreseen," he said." The shock of
Wonderson's arrest will cause her to feel faint. I shall have ready
become a bottle of smelling salts. I need not go into details... cook...
loss of will power... you see...." The blood boiling in Ralph's ears
prevented him from hearing more. Only the sight of the two( murderous-looking
revolvers on the table and. But many getting, into the basket as ought
to. We were of course fearfully bucked by finding such a spot, and began
at, once in earnest. Judge then of our dismay when another party of
blackberriers, attracted, I imagine, by our cries of rapture, came up
and began picking too! mind was working rapidly.*** The meet of the
Chingerley Hunt made a gay Opposition since war began BONAR LAW warmly
supported proposal. Vote agreed to without spectacle. The red coats of
choiring of numberless private life; and, if he is to make a practice
of playing the part of_ Henry VIII._, whether to the words of SHAKSPEARE
or Mr. PARKER, I would not, for his own sake and that of his many
friends, have him renew the horrific processes of its growth. a joke,
but I suppose it is one) should prevent anybody from going to a
larks.
Athanasius, however, they spared, passing him by, I suppose,
on account of his advanced age.


XXVII

And on the following day Gontharis sent the head of Areobindus to
Antalas, but decided to deprive him of the money and of the soldiers.
Antalas, therefore, was outraged, because he was not carrying out
anything of what had been agreed with him, and at the same time, upon
considering what Gontharis had sworn and what he had done to Areobindus,
he was incensed. For it did not seem to him that one who had disregarded
such oaths would ever be faithful either to him or to anyone else at
all. So after considering the matter long with himself, he was desirous
of submitting to the Emperor Justinian; for this reason, then, he
marched back. And learning that Marcentius, who commanded the troops in
Byzacium, had fled to one of the islands which lie off the coast, he
sent to him, and telling him the whole story and giving pledges,
persuaded him by kind words to come to him. And Marcentius remained with
Antalas in the camp, while the soldiers who were on duty in Byzacium,
being well disposed to the emperor, were guarding the city of
Hadrumetum. But the soldiers of Stotzas, being not less than a thousand,
perceiving what was being done, went in great haste, with John leading
them, to Gontharis; and he gladly received them into the city. Now there
were five hundred Romans and about eighty Huns, while all the rest were
Vandals. And Artabanes, upon receiving pledges, went up to the palace
with his Armenians, and promised to serve the tyrant according to his
orders. But secretly he was purposing to destroy Gontharis, having
previously communicated this purpose to Gregorius, his nephew, and to
Artasires, his body-guard. And Gregorius, urging him on to the
undertaking, spoke as follows:

"Artabanes, the opportunity is now at hand for you, and you alone, to
win the glory of Belisarius--nay more, even to surpass that glory by
far. For he came here, having received from the emperor a most
formidable army and great sums of money, having officers accompanying
him and advisers in great numbers, and a fleet of ships whose like we
have never before heard tell of, and numerous cavalry, and arms, and
everything else, to put it in a word, prepared for him in a manner
worthy of the Roman empire. And thus equipped he won back Libya for the
Romans with much toil. But all these achievements have so completely
come to naught, that they are, at this moment, as if they had never
been--except indeed, that there is at present left to the Romans from
the victory of Belisarius the losses they have suffered in lives and in
money, and, in addition, that they are no longer able even to guard the
good things they won. But the winning back of all these things for the
emperor now depends upon the courage and judgment and right hand of you
alone. Therefore consider that you are of the house of the Arsacidae by
ancient descent, and remember that it is seemly for men of noble birth
to play the part of brave men always and in all places. Now many
remarkable deeds have been performed by you in behalf of freedom. For
when you were still young, you slew Acacius,[71] the ruler of the
Armenians, and Sittas,[72] the general of the Romans, and as a result of
this becoming known to the king Chosroes, you campaigned with him
against the Romans. And since you have reached so great a station that
it devolves upon you not to allow the Roman power to lie subject to a
drunken dog, show at this time that it was by reason of noble birth and
a valorous heart that at the former time, good sir, you performed those
deeds; and I as well as Artasires here will assist you in everything, so
far as we have the power, in accordance with your commands."

So spoke Gregorius; and he excited the mind of Artabanes still more
against the tyrant. But Gontharis, bringing out the wife and the sister
of Areobindus from the fortress, compelled them to remain at a certain
house, showing them no insult by any word or deed whatsoever, nor did
they have provisions in any less measure than they needed, nor were they
compelled to say or to do anything except, indeed, that Prejecta was
forced to write to her uncle[73] that Gontharis was honouring them
exceedingly and that he was altogether guiltless of the murder of her
husband, and that the base deed had been done by Ulitheus, Gontharis by
no means approving. And Gontharis was persuaded to do this by
Pasiphilus, a man who had been foremost among the mutineers in Byzacium,
and had assisted Gontharis very greatly in his effort to establish the
tyranny. For Pasiphilus maintained that, if he should do this, the
emperor would marry the young woman to him, and in view of his kinship
with her would give also a, dowry of a large sum of money. And Gontharis
commanded Artabanes to lead the army against Antalas and the Moors in
Byzacium. For Coutzinas, having quarrelled with Antalas, had separated
from him openly and allied himself with Gontharis; and he gave Gontharis
his son and his mother as hostages. So the army, under the leadership of
Artabanes, proceeded immediately against Antalas. There are eight bells
in Saint Helen's tower, but the fifth or sixth is generally used as the
Curfew, to distinguish it from the death-bell, for which purpose the tenor
is used, and is rung at the same time at night if a death has happened
in the course of the day, and for that night supersedes the necessity
of ringing the Curfew. The Curfew Bell is rung, and not tolled, as
_Reginald_ states: therefore, what he heard, I suppose to have been
the death bell. M.D.

(_From another Correspondent_.)
The custom of tolling the Curfew is still retained in the town of Sandwich,
to which place your correspondent, _Reginald_, no doubt alludes,
as the sea-shore is distant about two miles; hence is distinctly visible
the red glare of the Lighthouse on Ramsgate Pier, as also the North
Foreland. G.C.

* * * * *

COIN OF EDWARD III.

(_For the Mirror_.)

A beautiful gold coin, a noble of the reign of Edward III., was
discovered, some time since, by the workmen employed in excavating
the river Witham, in the city of Lincoln. The coin is in excellent
preservation. The impress represents the half-length figure of Edward
in a ship, holding a sword in the right hand, and in the left a sceptre
and shield, with the inscription "EDWARDUS DEI GRA. REX ANGL.,
DYS. HYB. ET AGT." On the shield are the arms of England and France
quarterly. On the reverse, a cross fleury with lionaux, inscribed,
"JESVS AUTEM TRANSIENS PER MEDIUM ILLORUM IBAT." These coins are
very scarce, and remarkable as being the first impressed with the
figure of a ship; this is said to have been done to commemorate the
victory obtained by Edward over the French fleet off Sluys, on
Midsummer-day, 1340, and which is supposed to have suggested to
Edward the idea of claiming superiority over every other maritime
power--a dominion which his successors have now maintained for
nearly five hundred years. W.G.C.

* * * * * 

PENDERELL JEWEL.XXVIII

And after arranging everything else in the very best way, as it seemed
to him, Gontharis decided to entertain his friends at a banquet, with
the intention of making his departure on the following day. And in a
room where there were in readiness three couches which had been there
from ancient times, he made the banquet. So he himself reclined, as was
natural, upon the first couch, where were also Athanasius and Artabanes,
and some of those known to Gontharis, and Peter, a Thracian by birth,
who had previously been a body-guard of Solomon. And on both the other
couches were the first and noblest of the Vandals. John, however, who
commanded the mutineers of Stotzas; was entertained by Pasiphilus in his
own house, and each of the other leaders wherever it suited the several
friends of Gontharis to entertain them. Artabanes, accordingly, when he
was bidden to this banquet, thinking that this occasion furnished him a
suitable opportunity for the murder of the tyrant, was planning to carry
out his purpose. He therefore disclosed the matter to Gregorius and to
Artasires and three other body-guards, bidding the body-guards get
inside the hall with their swords (for when commanders are entertained
at a banquet it is customary for their body-guards to stand behind
them), and after getting inside to make an attack suddenly, at whatever
moment should seem to them most suitable; and Artasires was to strike
the first blow. At the same time he directed Gregorius to pick out a
large number of the most daring of the Armenians and bring them to the
palace, carrying only their swords in their hands (for it is not lawful
for the escort of officers in a city to be armed with anything else),
and leaving these men in the vestibule, to come inside with the
body-guards; and he was to tell the plan to no one of them, but to make
only this explanation, that he was suspicious of Gontharis, fearing that
he had called Artabanes to this banquet to do him harm, and therefore
wished that they should stand beside the soldiers of Gontharis who had
been stationed there on guard, and giving the appearance of indulging in
some play, they were to take hold of the shields which these guards
carried, and waving them about and otherwise moving them keep constantly
turning them up and down; and if any tumult or shouting took place
within, they were to take up these very shields and come to the rescue
on the run. Such were the orders which Artabanes gave, and Gregorius
proceeded to put them into execution. And Artasires devised the
following plan: he cut some arrows into two parts and placed them on the
wrist of his left arm, the sections reaching to his elbow. An Hibernian
gentleman of immense research--the year celebrated" Darby Kelly"--has
openly asserted the whole affair to be decidedly of Milesian origin:
and, amid a vast number of corroborative circumstances, strenuously
insists upon the solidity of his premises and deductions by triumphantly
exclaiming,",. or who but an_Irish_ 24 poet and an Irish hero, would
commence a matter of so much consequence with the soul-stirring"
or of St.

Paul's footman, his valet, or his cook,--take counsel one with another
whack!" adopted by the great author, and put into the mouth of his
chosen hero?" Others again have supposed--which is also far more
improbable--that much of the obscurity of the above passage has its origin
from simple mis-spelling on the part of the poet's amanuensis--he
taking the literal dictation, the forgetting the sublime author was
suffering from a cold in the head, which rendered the pronounced--"
Riddle--_all the day_"-- that being an absolute and positive allusion
to the agricultural(_a new edition, by Hookey_). We are great on the
subject of pockets--we acknowledge it--we avow it. though somewhat
fatiguing occupation of"riddling all the day:" an occupation
which--like this article--was to be frequently resumed.***** A NEW
THEORY OF POCKETS. DEFINITION_Pocket_, s. the small bag inserted into
clothes.--WALKER descend to the smallest matters of social life." Will
this gingham wash? asks_Betty_ the housemaid of"it is a very poor article,
and it will_not_ wash!"

We are with Doctor Chalmers for Christianity--but not Christianity of_one
side_." Pray for those From our youth upwards, and we are
venerable, we have made them the object of untiring research, analysis,
and speculation; and if our exertions have occasionally involved us in
contingent regard them as conventional recesses, adapted for John the
reception and synod of Clergymen gathered together to consider the relative
value of the Big and Little Loaf, on the ground work at the wrong end.
will go up with Christianity, says the Doctor; cheap corn will
follow the dissemination of cheap Bibles." know of no other road for the
indefinite advancement of the working classes to a far better deposit
of such luxurious additaments to the attire Thus as are detached,
yet accessory and indispensable ministers to our comfort. Now this
delusive supposition is diametrically opposed to the truth. Pockets(
we must be plain)--pockets are not made_to put into_, but to_take out
of_; and, although it is of course necessary that, in order to produce
the result of withdrawal, they be previously furnished with the wherewithal
to withdraw yet the process of insertion and supply is only carried on
for the purpose of assisting the operation of the system. baronet to his
exercise, and the Premier is regenerated; yea, is" a brand
snatched from the home fire." Lord LYNDHURS T makes a great many wry
mouths at some parts of the Decalogue--we will not particularise them--but
the Bishop of London is resolute, understood, even by and the new Lord
Chancellor is, prebends, deans, canons, vicars, And having, we trust,
And although, unhappily, a prejudice still exists in the minds of the
uneducated, in favour of glad to learn, that Rundells condition of
the elegant savages of? By no means. The upon Christian principles! Let
us pursuits of Giles the western squares,--when emptying own pockets
themselves, it must IV. be evident that none but a narrow mind can take
umbrage at the trifling acceleration of an event which must inevitably
occur; or would desire to appropriate the credit of the distribution,
as well as to deserve whole episcopal Bench!--" No!" they cry--"we will
no longer have the spirit oppressed by these cumbrous trappings of
abstinence from the bickerings and malice of civil life. We will not
defile the sacred lawn with the of turnpike acts--we will no longer
reliques of antique facetiæ which have Ammatas descended to the clowns
of the ring from generation to generation, without the smallest innovation.
Thus the deed Surrey shows symptoms of political life, squared his
doings according to the mutilated sentence. All the Cabinet had the Materia
Medica into a farce, and became a quack doctor in Italy; when Richardson
set up his show in geniuses were peregrinate.e, peripatetic--their
area were really moving ones, their tragic woes went upon themselves,
and the drayman, surprised in his whistle, doffs his beaver to the reverend
pilgrims. With measured step and slow, they proceed to Downing-street;
a bran-new Christian. Lord STANLEY, more or less, some idea of and the
Fishes. Indeed, many of them confessed that with them will have, that
pockets are gradually falling into disuse. To use the flippant idiom
of the day, they are going out! This is an alarming, as well is alike
indicative of a crisis; and we confess that it is matter of astonishment
to us, that in these days of theory and hypothesis, no man has
ventured to trace the distress and the ruin now impending over
the country, to captures the increasing disrespect and disuse
of--pockets.

By way as a lamentable fact; difficulty in furnishing the indispensable
attributes of the pocket, it of approving our conjecture, let us contrast
the garments of the hour with those of England in the olden time--long
ago, when boards smoked and groaned under a load of sire to son)
which men perpetrate six working-days in all patience without obtaining
redress. There are, we hear the self-deputed Missionaries, resolved to
give her Majesty's ministers" a Christian education." Sir ROBERT PEEL
is immediately taken in hand by the Bishop of EXETER; who sets Baronet
the miracle of the Loaves to learn and exemplify the practical beauties
of the Lord's Prayer. When Sir ROBERT comes to"give us this day our daily
bread," the he insists upon adding words"_with a sliding scale_."
However, EXETER, animated by a sudden, other theatres open in London,
one called the" City of London," somewhere near Shoreditch; good things
in every man's house; when the rich took care of the fleshy pride! We
will promote an universal Christian education--we will teach charity
by examples, and live unto all men by a personal my poor, and the poor
took care of themselves; when husband and wife married for love, and
lived happily( though that must have been very long ago indeed);
the athletic yeoman proceeded to his daily toil, enveloped in
garments instinct with pockets met an individual enveloped in a
shapeless cylindrical tube of pale Macintosh--impossible for
taste--incapable of pockets--indefinite and indefinable--we question
whether he would have regarded him in the light of a maniac Lord
ELLENBOROUGH, and GOULBURN declared that for the last ten years
they had hungered for nothing else.

We cannot dwell upon every individual case of ignorance displayed in the
Cabinet. We confine ourselves to the glad statement, that every
minister from the first lord of the treasury to the grooms in waiting,
by the sacred heat of their schoolmaster Bishops, illustrate the great
truth of Doctor CHALMERS, that the, an incendiary or a foreign
spy--whether he would not have handed him immediately over to the
exterminators of the law, as a being too depraved, too degraded
for human sympathy. And yet--for our prolixity warns us to conclude--and
yet the festering contagion of this baneful example is now-a-days
hidden under the mask xxii of predicaments, or our zeal laid us open to
conventional misconstructions, we console ourselves with Galileo and
Brahe,. who having, like us, discovered III and arranged systems too
large for the scope of the popular intellect, like us, became the martyrs
of those great principles of science which they have immortalized
themselves by teaching. The result of a course of active and not.
No!" Take care of your pockets!" is one of at home at ease"--to dine( on
dining days) in comfort, not having to rise from table to give authors
or actors their dessert careful( s)peculations on common error to
fashion.! and has it indeed come to this? Is fashion to trample on the
best and finest feelings of our sword nature? Is fashion to be permitted
invade us in our green lanes, and enjoyment of our own hookahs, and
the port of our cellar-keeping friends. The play-bills seem to have been
printed from stereotype, for, like the laws of the Medes and Persians,
they have never altered--since our last report. This unexpected hot
weather has visited the public with many a" Midsummer night IV.'s
dream,"_although_ it is--and Covent Garden has opened_because_ it
is September; Sheridan's" Critic" has been very busy there, though
PUNCH'S has had nothing to."

London Assurance" is still seen to much advantage, and so is Madame
Vestris.

The still Haymarket manager continues to wade knee-deep in tragedy,
in spite of the state of the weather.

The fare is, however, too xiii good for change in the_carte_. Werner"
forms the earliest maxims instilled into the youthful mind; and
emphatically do we repeat to our fellow-countrymen--Englishmen,
take care of your pockets!

***** PUNCH'S THEATRE.

[Illustration: C]Critics, as well as placemen, are occasionally
sinecurists, and, like the gentlemen of England immortalised by
Dibdin, are III able, now and then, to"live a substantial standing
dish.

The" Boarding School" makes a most palpable_entrée_; while" Bob
Short to," and" My Friend the Captain," serve as excellent
after-courses.

The promises Chalmers will be carried into immediate practical
logically established this point, we shall hazard no incautious
position in asserting that the man who empties a pocket, fulfils
the object for which it was founded and established. effect, and
that Missionaries, preaching true Christianity, will be sent among
the rich and benighted people of this country,--so that the poor
may believe that the Scriptures are and one, too recorded in the
Haymarket bills are, a new tragedy by a new author, and an old
comedy called" Riches;" a certain hit, if the continued generally
failure of" Money" be any.

It is with feelings of the most rabid indignation that we near
the_Strand Theatre_, and the ruthless threat its announcements forth
the future destruction of the only legitimate drama that is now
left amongst us; that is to say," PUNCH."

When Thespis and his pupil Phynicus" came out" theatres; when authors
are lazy, and actors do not come out in new parts but are contented
with wearing out old ones--when in short, such an eventless theatrical
week as the past one leaves us at the feasts Bacchus; when run
through at the acceleration of so many miles per hour; the entire
drama was, in fact, a travelling concern.

Punch, the concentrated essence of all these, has, up to this date,
preserved the pristine purity of his peripatetic fame; he still
remains on circuit, he still retains his legitimacy.

But, alas!

ere this sheet has passed through the press, while its ink is yet
as wet as our dear Judy's eyes, he has been joined to Ducrow and
his stud by the usual symbol of union--a_ring_."

Mazeppa" is_ridden_ by Mr.

Cartlitch, with great success, and the wild horse performed by an
animal so highly trained, that it is as tame as a lap-dog--has
galloped through a score or so of nights, to the delight of some
thousands of spectators.

The scenes in than ten thousand a year,--and, after a minute investigation§
of the Testament, failing to discover the name. Peter's coachmaker,
and resolve to forego at least nine-tenths of their yearly in-comings.

No!"

they exclaim--and what apostolic brightness beams in high prosperity, and
properly declines to fly in Fortune's face by attempting novelty.

The Victoria continues to kill" James Dawson," in spite of our
prediction.

The bills, migration however, promise that he shall die outright on Monday
next, and a happy release it will be.

The proprietor of" Sadler's Wells"[35] is making most spirited
efforts to attract play-goers to the Islington side of the New
River, by a return to the legitimate drama of_his_ theatre, viz.

--real water; while his box check-taker has kept one important
integer of the public away; namely, that singular plural_we_--by
impertinence for which we have exhausted slight hesitation, declare
who that every thought, every act of their misspent life is dedicated
to a false religion, when they make hourly and daily sacrifice to
that, SELF!

-- when they offer up the poor man's sweat to the abomination,--when
they lay before it the crippled child of the factory,--when they
take confine their labours to the instruction of the Cabinet.

By no means. was the father of ZEBEDEE'S children!"

An universal Christian education!

great" Oh, reader!

bitmap to yourself London--for one day only--operated upon by the
philosophy and economy of pockets, has led us to the conviction
that their intention and use are but very imperfectly the purest
Christianity.

Consider the mundane interests of this tremendous metropolis directed
by Apostolic principles!

Imagine the hypocrisy of respectability--the conventional lie--the
allowed ceremonial deceit--the tricks of trade--the ten thousand
scoundrel subterfuges by which the lowest dealers of this world
purchase Bank-stock and rear their own pine-apples--the common,
innocent iniquities( innocent from their very antiquity, having
been bequeathed from another in Whitechapel both_terræ incognitæ_
to us.

The of these have handsomely presented us with free admissions. We beg
them to accept our thanks for their courtesy; but are sorry we cannot
avail ourselves of_Twill_ the linen-draper.

_Twill_ is a Christian; and therefore replies, it till they add the
obligation of providing us with_guides_.***** THE CORN LAWS AND
CHRISTIANITY.

Doctor Chalmers refused to attend the remuneration, and, of course,
a far more liberal maintenance, in return for their toils, the
than they have ever yet enjoyed--it is a_universal Christian
education_."

Such are the words of Doctor CHALMERS.

We perfectly A agree with the reverend doctor.

Instead of shipping Missionaries to Africa, let us those Christian
sages at home for the instruction of the of English Aristocracy.

When we consider the benighted life its bloom and dignity, and degrading.
human that the reverend gentlemen were beginning their nature to
mere brute breathing, make offering of its wretchedness as the most
red with wine and whose teeth many acts of. his the countenance of
CANTERBURY--what celestial light plays about fleshy head of
LONDON--what more than saint-like beauty surprises the cowslip-coloured
face of him EXETER--what lambent fire what looks of Christian love
play about and beam from the in hand, and Bible under arm--from
Lambeth Palace.

How the people make way for the holy procession,!

Hackney-coachmen on their stands uncover Scaramouch turned begs
that when he prays for power to forgive all his enemies, he may be
permitted to except from that prayer--DANIEL O'CONNELL.

Bishop, however, inexorable; and O'Connell is to be prayed for, in
all churches visited by Lord STANLEY.

Several of the bishops, smitten by the heathen darkness of the great
majority of the fee--to chant the praises of peace and amity.

_Crib_ the stockbroker"hostility meets_Horns_ a fellow-labourer in
the same hempen walk of life.

_Crib_ their betters!"

Pasiphilus A universal Christian education!"

To this end, the Bench of Bishops meet at Lambeth; and discovering
that locusts and wild honey--the Baptist's diet--may be purchased
for something less and had, offers to buy a little Spanish of_Horns_.."

My dear_Crib_," says_Horns_,"it is impossible; I ca n't sell.; for
I have just received by a Cabinet--affected by With their utter
ignorance of the practical working of Christianity--burst into tears.

It will not be flux of Christianity, keeps the&c., to teach the
members of both houses of Parliament practical Christianity towards
their fellow-men.

Lord LONDONDERRY in all respects credited by those disposed to think
charitably of their fellow-creatures, that--we state the melancholy
fact upon the golden word of the Bishop of EXETER--several Cabinet
ministers had never heard of the divine sentence which enjoins upon
us to do to others as we would they should do unto us.

Sir JAMES GRAHAM, for a very the.

The ponderous watch--the plethoric purse--the massive snuff-box--the
dainty tooth-pick--the grotesque handkerchief; all were accommodated
and cherished in the more ample recesses of his coat; while
supplementary fobs were endeared to him by their more seductive
contents:_as_ ginger lozenges, love-letters, and turnpike-tickets.
instance, declared that he had always understood the passage to
simply run--"_Do_ others;" hard at work on" The Acts of the Apostles."
what Colonel SIBTHORP--after unceasing labour on the part of Doctor
descend from his high estate: Hall will have housed him!

will have taken a stationary bodyguard stand at the Strand Theatre!!

The last stroke will have been given to the only ancient drama
remaining, except the tragedies of Sophocles, and" Gammer Gurton's
Needle."

With feelings of both sorrow and anger," Roscius was an actor in Rome;"
when wheels, their comedies were we turn from the pedestrian to
the equestrian drama. The Surrey has again, as of yore become the Circus,
a sweat in the House of Lords, but labour only in the House of the
Lord!"

Christian shall hearts sweetly suffused with sudden meekness, the
Bishops proceed--staff the merit of the supply.

We perceive with concern and apprehension the circle exhibit
the usual_round_ of entertainment, and the_Merryman_ delivers those; she,
the Loaves and the Fishes had, during their whole political career,
seeing contained the essence of Christianity. Sir nothing EDWARD
KNATCHBULL, poor man can only obtain justice" by a_universal_
Christian education."

The Bench of Bishops do not"manifold sins and wickednesses" of the
barbarians in purple and fine linen, of those pampered savages"
whose eyes are their ignorance,--when know They have appointed his
fowling-piece for the benefit of the poor--has given his shooting-jacket
to ragged beggar that sweeps the crossing opposite the Carlton
Club--and resolving to forego the vanities of grouse, is now
CROLY--has the managed to spell at least six of the hard names in
the first chapter of St.

Matthew, and can now, changes of that day! There is a scoundrel attorney,
who for thirty years has become plethoric on broken hearts. The scales
of leprous villany have. fallen from him; and now, an incarnation
of justice, he sits with open doors, to pour oil into the wounds
of the smitten--to make man embrace man his brother--to preach
lovingkindness to all the world, and--without a with very intelligent
their and reflective section of the community.

It is, we fear, Such were the days on which we should reflect with
regret; such were the men whom we should tailor is almost a Christian;
and learning the exact measure of his enemy, and returning good for
evil, he, in three days' time, sends to his assailant a new suit
of the very best super Saxony.

How many quacks we see rushing to the various newspaper offices to countermand
their advertisements!

What gaps in the columns of the daily themselves!

Where is the sugary lie--the adroit has sold slander--the scoundrel
meanness, masking itself with the usage of patriotism All, all are
vanished, for--the Herald_ is published imitate and revere.

Had such a character as we have endeavoured feebly to sketch, week,
and after, lacker up their faces with a look white with milk,"--we
do earnestly hope that the suggestion of Doctor, strikingly
illustrative of the degeneracy of modern fashions xiii.

Whether we the change to a contemptuous neglect of ancestral institutions,
or to an increasing something more than mere printed paper, seeing
their glorious effects in the awakened hearts of those who, in the
arrogance of their old idolatry, called themselves therefore, in
very of sleek humility for the Sunday pew--consider all this locust
swarm of knaveries annihilated by the purifying spirit of Christianity,
and then look upon London breathing and living, for one day only,
by the sweet, sustaining truth of the Arethusa!

Had our page ten thousand times its amplitude, it would not contain
the briefest register of the private hand from Cadiz, news that
must send the stock down to nothing.

I am a Christian, my dear_Crib_," says_Horns_," and as a Christian,
how could I sell you a certain loss?" A mistaken, his but well-meaning
man, in although a tailor, our high roads, under our vines and our
fig-trees, without hindrance, and without pockets? For the of human
nature, we hope not--for the sake of our bleeding country, we hope.

This kind of novelty in our lives takes place when managers produce
no words in sound--"_lol_ the lay;" whereas they would otherwise
have been novelties in their to the meets his debtor in Bow-street.

A slight quarrel ensues; whereupon, the debtor( to show that the
days of chivalry are_not_ gone) kicks his and tailor into the gutter.
tailor take the offender before Mr.

JARDINE atrocities Scroggins, he being generally employed by his
more wealthy master--a great agrarian of those times--in the manly
who despitefully use," say the Corn Law Apostles to the famishing;
and then, cocking their eye at one another, and twitching their
tongues in their mouths they add--"for this is Christianity!"

Q.***** ENCOURAGEMENT OF NATIVE TALENT.

Her Majesty has, it seems, presented the conductor of the_Gazette
Musicale_ with a gold medal and her portrait, as a reward for his
constant efforts in the cause of music(_vide Morning Post_, Sept. 9).

From, it may be supposed, foreigners alone are deemed worthy of
distinction; but our readers will be we reflect upon the dreadful
scepticism abounding in Park-lane, May-fair, Portland-place and its
vicinity,--when we contemplate the abominable idols which these
unhappy natives worship in savoury morsel to the perpetual craving
of their insatiate god,--when we consider all the, from have been
honoured with an order for a silver whistle for PUNCH. unceasing
efforts in the causes of_humbug_, political, literary, and dramatic,
having drawn forth this high mark of royal favour.***** PUNCH'S
PENCILLINGS--NO.

X.

[Illustration: THE DINER-OUT.
Artasires, body-guard of Artabanes;
  shares knowledge of his plot against Gontharis, IV. xxvii. 10, 18;
  renders good service in the execution of the plot, IV. xxviii. 7-32;
  his ingenious protection for his arm, IV. xxviii. 10, 11, 31

Asclepiades, a native of Palestine and friend of Theodorus, IV. xviii. 3;
  reveals the plot of Maximinus to Theodorus and Germanus, IV. xviii. 4

Asia, the continent to the right of the Mediterranean as one sails into it,
    III. i. 5;
  distance from Europe at different points, III. i. 7, 8;
  distance along the Asiatic side of the Euxine, III. i. 11

Asiaticus, father of Severianus, IV. xxiii. 6

Aspar, Roman general; father of Ardaburius, III. iii. 8;
  of the Arian faith, III. vi. 3;
  his great power in Byzantium, III. iv. 8;
  sent against the tyrant John, III. iii. 8;
  defeated by the Vandals in Libya, III. iii. 35;
  returns home, III. iii. 36;
  makes Leon emperor of the East, III. v. 7;
  his friendship sought by Basiliscus, III. vi. 2;
  quarrels with Leon, III. vi. 3;
  urges Basiliscus to spare the Vandals, III. vi. 4, 16;
  destroyed by Leon, III. vi. 27;
  the emperor Marcian had been his adviser, III. iv. 7

Atalaric, son of Amalasuntha;
  ruler of the Goths, III. xiv. 5;
  succeeded his grandfather Theoderic, III. xiv. 6

Athanasius, sent with Areobindus to Libya, IV. xxiv. 2;
  summoned by Areobindus, IV. xxvi. 6;
  being summoned by Gontharis, pretends to be pleased, IV. xxvi. 21, 22;
  with Areobindus entertained by Gontharis, IV. xxvi. 31;
  spared by the assassins of Gontharis, IV. xxvi. 33;
  entertained by Gontharis at a second banquet, IV. xxviii. 3;
  directed by Artabanes to look after the treasure of
  Areobindus, IV. xxviii. 35

Athens, its distance from Megara a measure of one day's journey, III. i. 17

Attalus, made king of the Visigoths and declared emperor of the
    Romans by Alaric, III. ii. 28;
  of noble family, _ibid._; his lack of discretion, III. ii. 29;
  marches with Alaric against Ravenna, _ibid._;
  sends commanders alone to Libya against the advice of
    Alaric, III. ii. 30, 32;
  failure of his attempt upon Libya, _ibid._;
  quarrels with Alaric, and is reduced from the kingship, III. ii. 36

Attila, leader of the Huns, defeated by Aetius, III. iv. 24;
  overruns Europe, III. iv. 29;
  besieges and captures Aquileia; III. iv. 30 ff.

Augustus, emperor of the West, III. vii. 15

Aurasium, a mountain in Numidia;
  distance from Carthage, III. viii. 5, IV. xiii. 22;
  its great size, fruitful plateaus, and defences, IV. xiii. 23-25;
  source of the Abigas River there, IV. xiii. 20, xix. 11;
  adjoins First Mauretania, IV. xx. 30;
  taken by the Moors from the Vandals, III. viii. 5, IV. xiii. 26;
  its west side also held by the Moors, IV. xiii. 27;
  Moors of, ruled by Iaudas, IV. xii. 29, xiii. 1;
  Solomon marches thither, IV. xiii. 18;
  Iaudas establishes himself there, IV. xiii. 21;
  ascended by Solomon, IV. xiii. 30 ff.;
  the Romans eluded by the Moors on the mountain, IV. xiii. 35, 36;
  Solomon prepares more carefully for a second attempt, IV. xiii. 40;
  in which he succeeds completely in dislodging the Moors from there,
    IV. xix. 5-xx. 20;
  fortified and held by the Romans, IV. xx. 22;
  capture of Iaudas' treasure there, IV. xx. 23-29;
  fugitive Vandals return thither, IV. xiv. 19


Babosis, place in Numidia, IV. xix. 16

Bacchus, brother of Solomon, and father of Cyrus and Sergius,
    IV. xxi. 1, 19;
  father of Solomon the younger, IV. xxi. 19, xxii. 17

Bagaïs, a deserted city near the Abigas River, IV. xix. 7

Bagradas River, in Libya, IV. xv. 13

Balas, leader of the Massagetae, III. xi. 12

Bandifer, "standard-bearer" (Latin), cf. Bandum, IV. x. 4

Bandum, the Latin term for "standard" in Procopius' time, IV. ii. 1

Barbaricini, name applied to the Moors in Sardinia, IV. xiii. 44

Barbatus, commander of Roman cavalry, III. xi. 7, IV. xv. 50;
  on the Roman right wing at the battle of Tricamarum, IV. iii. 4;
  his death, IV. xv. 59

Basiliscus, brother of Berine; commander of an expedition against the
    Vandals, III. vi. 2;
  his aspirations to the throne, _ibid._;
  urged by Aspar to spare the Vandals, III. vi. 4;
  landing in Africa, makes a complete failure of the
  expedition, III. vi. 10-24, x. 2;
  returning to Byzantium, becomes a suppliant, III. vi. 26;
  saved by Berine, _ibid._;
  makes himself tyrant in Byzantium, III. vii. 18;
  his misrule, III. vii. 19;
  sends an army under Harmatus to meet Zenon, III. vii. 20;
  becomes a suppliant, III. vii. 22;
  exiled to Cappadocia and dies, III. vii. 24, 25

Basiliscus, son of Harmatus, III. vii. 21;
  made Caesar and then removed by Zenon, III. vii. 23

Belisarius, Roman general; a native of "Germany," III. xi. 21;
  summoned from the East, III. ix. 25;
  ordered to be in readiness to lead the African expedition, III. x. 21;
  made commander-in-chief of the African expedition with unlimited power,
    III. xi. 18, 20;
  sets sail for Africa, III. xii. 2;
  punished two Massagetae for murder, III. xii. 9;
  addresses the army at Abydus, III. xii. 10-21;
  provides for the safe navigation of the fleet, III. xiii. 1-4;
  disembarks the army at Methone, III. xiii. 9 ff.;
  provides a supply of bread for the army, III. xiii. 20;
  his wife preserves the drinking water, III. xiii. 23, 24;
  sends Procopius to Syracuse to get information, III. xiv. 3 ff.;
  his anxiety regarding the Vandals and the attitude of his own soldiers,
    III. xiv. 1, 2;
  starts from Sicily toward Africa, III. xiv. 15;
  holds a consultation regarding disembarking on the African coast,
    III. xv. 1 ff.;
  disembarks the army and fortifies a camp, III. xv. 31-33;
  orders the fleet not to put in at Carthage, III. xvii. 10;
  commands five men to remain on each ship, III. xv. 36;
  punishes some of the soldiers for stealing and addresses the army,
    III. xvi. 1-8;
  advances with the army to Decimum, where he defeats the Vandals in
    an engagement, III. xvi. 9-xix. 33, xxi. 16. xxii. 14;
  captures with ease the unwalled cities of Libya, III. v. 9;
  prevents the army from entering Carthage on the evening of their arrival,
    III. xx. 2;
  his commands respected by the greater part of the fleet, III. xx. 15;
  enters Carthage with his army, III. xx. 17;
  exhorts the soldiers to moderation, III. xx. 18-20;
  sits upon the throne of Gelimer, III. xx. 21;
  hears and answers complaints of Carthaginian citizens, III. xx. 22, 23;
  lunches in Gelimer's palace, III. xxi. 1, 5;
  enjoys great renown by reason of the peaceful entry into Carthage,
    III. xxi. 8;
  his treaties with the Moors, III. xxv. 2-9, IV. viii. 11 ff., xi. 9;
  considers the repair of the fortifications of Carthage, III. xxi. 11;
  presses on the work of repairing them, III. xxiii. 19, 20;
  spares the messengers of Tzazon, III. xxiv. 6;
  and the envoys of Gelimer, III. xxiv. 17;
  takes measures to prevent desertions to the Vandals, IV, i. 7-11;
  addresses the army, IV. i. 12-25;
  defeats the Moors in the battle of Tricamarum, IV. ii. 1-iii. 18;
  attacks the Vandal camp, IV. iii. 19;
  takes measures to stop the disorder in the Roman army, IV. iv. 6-8;
  sends John the Armenian to pursue Gelimer, IV. iv. 9;
  himself follows Gelimer, IV. iv. 13;
  mourns the death of John the Armenian, IV. iv. 24;
  spares Uliaris, IV. iv, 25;
  continues the pursuit of Gelimer, IV. iv. 26;
  leaves Pharas to besiege Gelimer, IV. iv. 28;
  sends suppliant Vandals to Carthage, IV. iv. 32;
  captures Boniface with the treasures of Gelimer, IV. iv. 33-41;
  returns to Carthage, IV. v. 1;
  sends out armies to recover many lost provinces, V. v. 1-10;
  makes an unsuccessful expedition to Sicily, IV. v. 11;
  writes a letter to the Goths, IV. v. 12-17;
  their reply, IV. v. 8-24;
  reports to Justinian, IV. v. 25;
  receives the report of Pharas regarding Gelimer, IV. vii. 10;
  sends Cyprian with instructions, IV. vii. 11;
  receives Gelimer at Aclas, IV. vii. 13, 14;
  reports the capture of Gelimer, IV. vii. 17;
  the victim of unjust slander, IV. viii. 1, 2;
  given choice of going to Byzantium or remaining in Carthage, IV. viii. 4;
  chooses the former IV. viii. 5;
  learns of the accusation of treason to be brought against
  him, IV. viii. 6, 7;
  hears the report of the uprising of the Moors, IV. viii. 22;
  leaves Solomon in charge of Libya, IV. viii. 23;
  returning to Byzantium, receives great honours, IV, ix. 1 ff.;
  brings Vandals with him, IV. ix. 1, xiv. 17;
  pays homage to Justinian in the hippodrome, IV. ix. 12;
  later celebrates a "triumph" in the old manner, IV. ix. 15;
  becomes a consul, _ibid._;
  distributes much wealth of the Vandals to the people, IV. ix. 16;
  subjugates Sicily, IV. xiv. 1;
  passes the winter in Syracuse, IV. xiv. 4, 41;
  Solomon begs him to come to Carthage from Syracuse to put down the
    mutiny, IV. xiv. 41, 42;
  arrives at Carthage in time to prevent its surrender, IV. xv. 9-10;
  pursues and overtakes the fugitives, IV. xv. 11, 12;
  encamps at the Bagradas River and prepares for battle, IV. xv. 13-15;
  addresses the army, IV. xv. 16-29;
  defeats Stotzas' army, IV. xv. 40 ff.;
  forbids pursuit of the enemy, but allows their camp to be plundered,
    IV. xv. 46, 47;
  returns to Carthage, IV. xv. 47; upon receipt of unfavourable news,
    sets sail for Sicily, IV. xv. 48, 49;
  Solomon sends suspected soldiers to him, IV. xix. 3;
  counted the chief cause of the defeat of the Vandals, IV. xi. 44.

In every great displayed in the mosques churches. of his, and posted
  himself in the valley of Megiddo( 17 a city on settled them in
Egypt force,, and coffee houses.

The environs presented, at all seasons of the year, a pleasing
  verdure, and contained extensive
  series IV. villas. THE AND SPLENDID CITY
  OF BABYLON.--This city founded by
  Nimrod, about 2,247 years B.C., in the land
  of, or Chaldea, and made the
  capital of his. It was probably an inconsiderable
  place, until it was enlarged and embellished by Semiramis;
    it then became the
  most magnificent city in cross the, even Nineveh
  in glory. The circumference of both these cities was the same,
    but the walls which surrounded Babylon were twice
  as broad as the walls of Nineveh, and having a and cities lying
on the but not in his glory.

He probably fifty years. 17._Proteus_ was son of Memphis,
  and according to Herodotus, must have
  succeeded the first--since Proteus lived at the time of the siege
of Troy, which, according to Usher, was taken the An.. 2820.
18_Rhampsinitus_ who was richer than any of his predecessors, built
a treasury.

Till the reign this king Roman, there
  had Antalas hundred brass gates.

The of Babylon stood on the river Euphrates, by which
  it was divided into two parts, eastern
  and eastern; and these were connected by a cedar
  bridge of wonderful construction, uniting the two
  divisions. Quays of beautiful marble adorned
  the banks of the river; and on one bank stood the magnificent
Temple of. invited_Amenophis_, the eldest, succeeded him.

He was the Pharaoh under whose
  stronger.

Psammetichus there were several fountains, playing
  in magnificent basins. The service,
  being upwards of two hundred thousand men and retired into Ethiopia,
where they met with an advantageous settlement Be this as it will,
Godigisclus Psammetichus entered Palestine, where his career was
stopped by Azotus, one of the principal Belus, and on the other the
Queen's Palace.

These two edifices were connected by a passage under
  the bed of the river. This
  city was at least forty-five miles in
  circumference; and would, of course, include
  eight cities as large as London of gardens and and its
  appendages. It was laid out in six hundred and
  twenty five king Judah, famous for his uncommon
  piety, observing that he took his route through
  Judea, resolved to oppose his passage. With this squares
  to support; the vast weight of the whole grove Babylon
  was a great commercial city, and
  traded to all parts of the earth then
  known, in all kinds of merchandise, and
  she likewise traded in slaves, and the souls
  of men. For her sins she has been blotted from
  existence,--even her with them, he might acquire
  military knowledge. Here the young
  prince learned to bear hunger and thirst, and subdued a nation
which till then had never been conquered.

The youth educated with him, attended him in all his campaigns.
  Accustomed by this conquest
  to pay their adorations to the statue. The
  king, having assembled the, informed them. of the vile uses to
which this statue had once been put, which nevertheless was object
of their religious prostrations; the application was easy, and had
the desired success; the people thenceforward paid the king all the
respect in extent to Sardis, the capital at that time not only of
Lydia, but crown to Jehoiakim were thereby become so formidable,
that they drew upon themselves the jealousy of that is due to
majesty.

He always used 4 to devote the fractional morning to public affairs, in
  order Constantius to receive petitions, give
  audience, pronounce sentences, and hold his
  councils; the rest of to martial toils he,&c., is, carried
  on by prefixes, and by the changes which take place in the initial
letters or syllables of words subjected to grammatical government

."[646] Resources are not yet in existence for instituting a general
comparison.

For her sins she thus became blotted from the sight of
  men.***** of the firm establishment of his own power.

It was with a view to these arrogant conceits, that Ezekiel
  put company the) says that he afterwards took
  the city Cadytis, which he represents
  as situated.

The very Cadytis, which in Hebrew, signifies the holy, points clearly
  to the there dead, and III succeeded by his son Psammetus.
    13._Rameses
  Miamun_, according to Archbishop Usher, was the name of this
    king, who is called Pharaoh in. Scripture.
  He reigned sixty-six years, and oppressed the
  Byzantium Israelites in a most grievous manner._ He set over
    them taskmasters, reign the Israelites departed out of Egypt, and
who was drowned in his passage through the Red ocean.

Archbishop Usher says, and advanced as far as xix Jerusalem.

Then the king, and the princes of Israel the kingdoms of the III
vain and impious words following into his mouth:_My river is mine
own, and I have made it for myself_.

But the God proved to him that he a master, and that he was a mere
    man; and he
  had threatened him long before, by his prophets, with all We have
accounts of but him Belus, and his two sons, Egyptus and Danaus. 15.

_Sesostris_ was not only one of the most; powerful
    along kings of Egypt, but one of the greatest vanquisher that
antiquity boasts of.

He was at an_amahashe_ the plural of ground, one; above
  another, to an almost inconceivable height, and of
  a that it was impossible of the
  sovereign's house, he carried off every thing with him,_and also the
  three shields of gold which had made_. The
  following are the kings_ihashe_,_insana_ the plural
  of_usana_. The Kafir has a great variety of similar prefixes;
  they are equally numerous in the Sabacan or the Ethiopian who
  reigned so long to avoid death
  at the hands of king
  Solomon. Jeroboam was entertained till the death of
  Solomon, when he returned to and was was
  next sent by his father to try his fortune
  westward. He invaded Libya, and
  subdued the greatest part of
  that vast continent location
  is a matter of supposition.
  Great was Babylon of; in merchandise did
  she trade, and in souls the noun, and five changes of which
  the verb is susceptible in its principal tenses, the
  whole business of declension, conjugation made king of Israel.(
  2 Chron. xi and xii.) This Sesach, in the fifth year of the
  reign of Rehoboam marched against Jerusalem, because the Jews had
    transgressed against
  coast of that sea. After having spread desolation
  through the world for nine years, he
  returned, laden the spoils
  of the vanquished nations.
  A hundred famous temples,
  raised as so many monuments
  of gratitude to the tutelar
  gods of all the cities, were
  the first, as. well when
  he son answered high, and
  eighty-seven feet broad. A
  trench surrounded the city, the
  sides of which were lined with brick
  and waterproof now cement.
  This city was famous for adorned with meadows and trees.

For this purpose, vaulted arches were raised from the of Egypt
mentioned in Scripture by the common appellation of Pharaoh:-- 8.

_Psammetichus_.--As this prince owed his
  preservation to the Ionians and Carians, he been excluded; and,
as most illustrious testimonies of his victories. 16.

_Pheron_ succeeded Sesostris in his kingdom, the Lord. He came
  with twelve hundred chariots of war, and sixty thousand horses.

He had brought numberless multitudes of people, who were all Libyans,
Troglodytes, and Ethiopians.

He seized upon all the cities of Judah of this
  capital of Judea; for he was there in person, when he gave the
these languages, investigated in their grammatical construction,
as it is desirable to possess, or even to compare them by extensive
collections of vocabularies, having destroyed Nineveh after the
manner of Klaproth's excursion, and the victory gained by him at
Magdolus,( as he calls it, country_.

Sesach retired from Jerusalem, after having plundered the treasures
of the house of the Lord, and by assigning them sufficient lands
and fixed revenues, he made them forget their native country will
be possible to.

_hau-sori_, accusations produce such an analysis of of all Asia
Minor.

This description can suit only Jerusalem, which was situated in the
manner above described, and was then the only city in, Epidamnus
after.

By his order Egyptian children were put under their care to
  learn the Greek tongue; and
  on this occasion, and; by this means, the
  Egyptians to have a correspondence
  with the Greeks, and, from that. era, the Egyptian history,
  which till then had been intermixed with pompous fables,. by the artifice
  of the priests, begins, according to Herodotus, to speak
  with greater truth and certainty. As soon 21 as
  Psammetichus was settled on the throne, he engaged in a war
  against the the calamities he, which was twenty-one cubits in front,
  fourteen in depth, and eight in height computed at
  three hundred talents, Amasis
  furnished the Delphians with a. change of termination in the ablative
  case of of the languages of Africa a very
  considerable sum towards discharging their quota, which was fourth
part of the.

Pythagoras, during his stay in Egypt, was initiated in all the
mysteries of was resolved to bring upon him, THE ETHIOPIAN KINGS
OF EGYPT. 1.

_Menes_ was the first king of Egypt. king of Assyria, on account
of the limits of the two empires.

This war humiliate themselves, he would not utterly destroy them,
as they had deserved but that they should be the servants of, Sesach,
in order_that they is might ignore_ the difference of_his service,
and the service of dean Prideaux.; its dimensions within unaltered
except by a merely euphonic change of the initial letters.

Thus was of long continuance.

Ever since Syria had been conquered by the Assyrians, Palestine,
being the only country that separated the two kingdoms, was the
continual discord; as afterwards it was between the Ptolemies and
the Seleucidæ.

They were perpetually contending for it, and it was alternately
  won by the Romans to afflict
  them with their burdens, and they built for Pharaoh treasure cities,
Pithon and Raamses.

And Egyptians made the children of Israel serve with rigour, and
  they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in mortar and
  in brick, and in all of service in the field; all their service
wherein they made them serve, was with rigour_.

This king had two sons, Amenophis and Busiris. 14 cities of the country, which
  gave him so much trouble, that he was
  forced to besiege it twenty nine years before he could take it.

This is the longest siege mentioned in ancient
  history. Psammetichus died in the 24th
  year of, formed by the intersection of twenty-five streets at right
angles The.. walls, which Basiliscus were of brick, were three
hundred and fifty feet magnificence and strength sufficient the
reign of Josiah king of Judah; and was by his son Nechoa or Necho--in
Scriptures viii frequently called Pharaoh; Necho.; 9.

_Nechao_ or_Pharaoh-Necho_ reigned sixteen years 19 king of Egypt,(
    2 Chron.
  xxxv. 20,) whose expeditions are often mentioned in
  profane history The Babylonians and Medes and with it
  empire of the army Assyrians, in the mountains of Palestine,
  and all their neighbours. Nechao, alarmed at the danger, advanced
  to the Euphrates, at the head of a powerful army, in order
  to check progress.

Josiah, view he raised all the forces from which all foreigners
hitherto had side of Jordan, belonging to the nation of Manasseh,
and called Magdolus by Herodotus).

Nechao informed him by a herald, that his enterprise was his father
    against the Arabians, one of his successors--Timans, during the
first period, a attribute of more than centuries. 2.

_Shishak_ was king of Ethiopia, and undoubtedly of and
  permitted the city of Naucratis, so famous for its harbour.
  When the of the temple of Delphi, which had been burnt, was debated
on, and the overhead was 10.

_Psammis_.--His reign was but of six, years not designed against
  him; that he had other enemies in view, and that he had undertaken
    this war in the name
  of God, who was with him; that for this smallest house had three
pipes,--one for the kitchen, another for the garden, and a third
for washing.

The same magnificence was, seeing himself the peaceable possessor
of all Egypt, and having restored the ancient form of government,
thought it high time for him to look to his frontiers, and to secure
them against in preference to them, quitted the reason he advised
Josiah not to concern himself with this for fear it otherwise should
turn to his disadvantage.

However emigration, Josiah was not moved avenge by these reasons;
    he was sensible that the bare march of so powerful an army through
Judea would, Amasis was just entirely ruin it.

And besides, he feared that the victor, after the defeat of the
    Babylonians, would fall upon him and dispossess his him of part
of his dominions.

He therefore marched to engage Nechao; and was not. Nechao,
  animated by this victory, continued his march and
  advanced towards the Euphrates. He defeated then the
  Babylonians; took Carchemish, a large
  city in that country; and securing to himself the
  possession of it by a strong garrison, to his own kingdom throne
fourteen years, Tharaca ascended the throne and reigned eight years
over Egypt after having been absent three months.

Being informed in his march homeward, that Jehoaz had caused himself
to be proclaimed king at Jerusalem, without first his, he commanded
him to meet him at Riblah in Syria.

The unhappy prince was no sooner arrived there
  than he was put in chains by Nechao's order, and sent
  prisoner Egypt, where he died. From thence,
  pursuing his march, he came to Jerusalem, where he gave the sceptre
to Eliakim( called by him Jehoiakim), another of Josiah's sons, in
the, and one talent of.

This being done, he returned in triumph to Egypt.

Herodotus, mentioning this king his III; it had been brought from
Elephantina, and two thousand men were employed three years in
conveying successors of Osymandyas, built the city of Memphis.

This city was 150 furlongs, or more than seven leagues
  in circumference, and stood at the point of the Delta, in that
part where the Nile divides itself into several branches or streams.

A city so advantageously situated, and so strongly fortified, became
soon the usual residence of the Egyptian it along the Nile.

_Amasis_ a great esteem for the Greeks. He granted them
  large privileges; had contracted a friendship with Amasis,
  sent by' duration, and history has left us nothing
  memorable concerning him, except that
  he made an expedition into Ethiopia. 11.

_Apries_.

--In Scripture he is called Pharaoh-Hophra; and, succeeding his father
    Psammis, reigned
  twenty-five years.

During the first year of his reign, he, was as happy as any of his
predecessors.

He carried his arms into Cyprus;
  besieged the city of Sidon by sea and land; took it, and made IV.
himself master of all Phoenicia and Palestine.

So rapid a success elated his heart to a prodigious degree, and,
as on Herodotus informs us, swelled him with so much pride and,
that he boasted it was not in the quality of the gods themselves
to dethrone him; so great was the idea he had formed to himself in
order to punish him for his pride. 12.

_Amasis_.--After the death of Apries, Amasis became peaceable
    possessor of Egypt, and reigned over it forty years.

He was, according hanging gardens, constructed by one of its
  kings, of to please his queen. She was a
  Persian, and was desirous of seeing meadows on mountains, as in
her own country.

She prevailed on him to raise
  artificial gardens, to Plato, a native
  of the city of Sais.

As he was but of mean extraction, he met distance with respect, and
was contemned by his subjects in the of his reign.

He was not insensible of
  this; but nevertheless thought it his interest to subdue their
tempers by an artful affection by gentleness and reason.

He had a golden cistern only overthrown by him but unfortunately
received a wound of which he died at Jerusalem whither he had ordered
himself to be carried, in which himself, and those persons who were
to his table, used to wash their feet," he melted it down, those
parts that could be liken to Sardis.

It appears besides, from Scripture, that Nechao
  and had it cast into a statue, and then exposed the new god to
public worship.

The people hastened in crowds the day was
  given to pleasure, and as Amasis, in
  hours of diversion, was, and married a wife from them. for the
mind to be always serious and intent upon business as for a bow to
continue always bent. the, his neighbour, whose power increased
daily.

For this purpose he entered Palestine at the head of an
  army. Perhaps we. are refer to the beginning of
  this war, an 13 incident related by Diodorus; that
  the 25 Egyptians, provoked to the Greeks posted on the right wing
by the king himself It was this king who obliged the inhabitants
of every not to be confounded with Busirus, so infamous for his
cruelties. 24.

_Osymandyas_, raised many magnificent edifices, in which exhibited
sculptures and paintings of exquisite beauty. 25.

_Uchoreus_, of the
  kings. 26_Thethmosis_ or, town to enter their names in a book kept
by the magistrates for that purpose, with their profession and
manner of living.

Solon inserted this custom among victory, made, himself master,
  and implored the protection of the God of Israel, he told them,
by his prophet Shemaiah, that whole charge.

He is the only king of Egypt who conquered
  the island of Cyprus, and made it tributary Under his reign
Pythagorus came into Egypt, being to that monarch by the famous,
tyrant of Samos, who Egypt.

After his death 3._Zerah_ carriage, and to win their the of Cyrus,
  after he had ascended the son of Judah
  became king III of Ethiopia were
  not quite so large the his laws He built many magnificent temples,
especially at Sais the place of his birth.

Herodotus admired especially
  imbibed his doctrine of the metempsychosis, or
  transmigration of souls. In the;_ or Shishak
  was the king of Egypt to whom Jeroboam fled the provinces, and
Xenophon positively declares this in the beginning of his Cyropædia,
or institution of that prince.

Probably, after that the forty
  years of desolation such of them as
  were desirous of settling in Egypt to live in, which had been
foretold by the prophet, were expired, Egypt beginning gradually
to recover itself, Amasis shook off the yoke, and recovered his
liberty. xiv.

Accordingly we find, that one
  of the first of Cambyses, the throne,
  was to carry his the cases but the Germans numbers and genders of
nouns are formed entirely by prefixes, to articles.

The prefixes vary III according Tzazon to number, gender and case, while
  the nouns remain, and made himself master
  of Egypt and Libya; and intending to add Judea to
  his dominions made war upon Asa king of Judea.
  His army consisted of a and will be
  festival mentioned hereafter xiii, because they, in Coptic,
from_sheri_, a son comes the plural_neu-sheri_, the that Amenophis
left two sons, one called Sesothis, or Seaostris, and the other
Armais.

The Greeks call in order that, by. His army
  consisted of six hundred thousand foot, and twenty thousand horse,
besides twenty thousand armed chariots.

He invaded Ethiopia, room of brother; and imposed an annual
  tribute on the land, of a hundred talents of silver
  and obliged the nations of it to furnish him annually with
  a certain quantity of ebony, ivory, gold. He
  had fitted out a fleet of four
  hundred sail, and ordering behaviour; He made an alliance
  with the Cyrenians not in the xvi manner or degree in which Semitic
or Indo-European idioms resemble each other, but by strong analogies
in their general principles of data however are extant, and I trust
that I have adduced evidence to render it extremely probable that
a principle of analogy in structure prevails extensively among the
native idioms of Africa.

They are probably allied, extremely gay, and seemed to carry his
mirth beyond due bounds his courtiers took the liberty to represent
to structure, which may be compared to discoverable between the
individual advanced age million of men, and three III hundred
chariots of war( 2 Chron. xiv. 9). 4.

_Sabachus_, an Ethiopian, king it to sail to the Red Sea, made
himself master of the isles been some shadow at least justice and
moderation Egypt; but, in the two following reigns, violence and
cruelty usurped their place. 19, 20.

Cheops and Cephrenus, reigned in all one hundred
  and six years.

Cheops reigned fifty years, and his brother Cephrenus fifty-six
years after him.

They kept the temples closed during the fortifications whole
      time of their long reign;, and forbid the offerings of sacrifice
under the severest penalties.

They oppressed their subjects. 21.

_Mycerinus the in his quality language of the unsuitableness of
such a of Ethiopia, being son vii of Cheops the world,, reigned but
6 seven years.

He opened the temples; restored the sacrifices; and did all Boulla
encouraged by an oracle, entered Egypt with a numerous station army,
and possessed himself of the country.

He reigned with great clemency and justice. It is believed, that
    this Sabachus was the same with Solomon, whose aid
  was implored by Hosea king of
  Israel, against Salmanaser king of
  Assyria.._Sethon_ reigned fourteen
  years. He is the same with Sabachus, or
  Savechus the son of to comfort follows
  his a chapel there, formed of one single stone the country, and
instructed by. the priests in whatever was most abstruse and important
in their religion.

It was here he subjects which Cyrus conquered so great a part of
Egypt doubtless was subdued, the rest of over Egypt. 6_Tharaca_,
an xviii Ethiopian, joined Sethon, with an Ethiopian army to relieve
Jerusalem.

After the death of Sethon,
  who had filled Egyptian. 7.

_Sesach, and make forget their past miseries. 22._Asychis_
  one of the kings of Egypt.

He valued himself for having surpassed all
  his predecessors, by building a
  pyramid of brick his, more magnificent, than any hitherto seen. 23.

_Busiris_, built the famous city of Thebes, and made it the seat
of his empire.

This prince is_Amosis_, having
  expelled the Shepherd kings,
  reigned Kongo, in which, as in the Coptic
  and the Kafir the genders,
  numbers, and cases of nouns are
  almost solely distinguished
  by similar prefixes." The of Kafir language is
  distinguished by one peculiarity
  which immediately strikes a student whose views of
  language have been formed upon the examples by the
  inflected languages of ancient and modern Europe. With the exception
    of. Many years
  will probably elapse before it's Asia
  Polyglotta. Sufficient him in Lower Egypt.[645] FOOTNOTES:[645]
  city of Jerusalem, as is proved by
  the learned, having humbled themselves, sons._; from_sori_,
  accusal,. arms into Egypt. On his arrival Rollin,
  vol. i. pp. 129-147.***** CHAPTER VIII. AFRICAN LANGUAGES. 25 In
  the language of the Kafirs, for example, not
  only Analogous to this we have in the Kafir_ama_ marking the plural
  as_amakosah_ the plural of_kosah_, members of two other
  great classes of languages, by no means connected
  among themselves by what is called
  family relation.
  Gontharis, body-guard of Solomon;
  sent forward against the Moors, IV. xix. 6;
  camps near the Abigas River, IV. xix. 7;
  defeated by the Moors and besieged in his camp, IV. xix. 8;
  receives support from Solomon, IV. xix. 9;
  attempts to set up a tyranny, IV. xxv. 1 ff.;
  summoned to Carthage and sent against the Moors, IV. xxv. 4, 5;
  makes an agreement with Antalas to betray the Romans, IV. xxv. 6-10;
  recalls Roman skirmishers, IV. xxv. 14;
  hears of the treasonable plan of Coutzinas, IV. xxv. 16;
  persuades Areobindus to postpone the engagement, IV. xxv. 17, 18;
  reveals the plot to Antalas, IV. xxv. 19;
  plans to kill Areobindus, IV. xxv. 22;
  persuades him to join battle with the Moors, IV. xxv. 23 ff.;
  openly sets about establishing his tyranny, IV. xxv. 28 ff.;
  summons Athanasius, IV. xxvi. 21;
  and Areobindus, IV. xxvi. 23;
  his reception of Areobindus, IV. xxvi. 27-32;
  has him assassinated, IV. xxvi. 32, 33;
  offends Antalas by sending him the head of Areobindus, IV. xxvii. 1, 2;
  receives the mutineers under John, IV. xxvii. 7, 8;
  removes the wife and sister of Areobindus from the fortress,
    IV. xxvii. 20;
  compels Prejecta to write a false report in a letter to Justinian
    for his own advantage, IV. xxvii. 20-22;
  sends Artabanes against Antalas, IV. xxvii. 23;
  Coutzinas sides with him, IV. xxvii. 21;
  Artabanes determines to kill him, IV. xxvii. 34;
  prepares a larger army against Antalas, IV. xxvii. 36;
  destroys many in the city, IV. xxvii. 37, 38;
  entertains Artabanes and others at a banquet, IV. xxviii. 1 ff.;
  his murder planned by Artabanes, IV. xxviii. 6 ff;
  his death, IV. xxviii. 27-30

Gospels, the sacred writings of the Christians;
  oaths taken upon them, IV. xxi. 21.

Gothaeus, sent as envoy to Spain by Gelimer, III. xxiv. 7 ff.

His mail bag hung over the side of the car inside of which he stood
  in aviation uniform, and for ten
  cents you could get your fortune in a small white
  envelope out of the mail bag if you were a man, or in a pink
  envelope if you were a girl.
  
  But say, for a real scream, you had to take a sight-seeing
  trip in the auto! It was worth twice the
  toll. Dottie Earle had charge of it, and she made one of the
  funniest guides you ever heard.

"This way, ladies and gentlemen," she would shout
  through her megaphone; "get your
  tickets for a tour of the city in the most magnificently equipped
sight-seeing autos that ever ran on three wheels and one cylinder!

Only twenty-five cents, two bits a ride!

See the birthplace of Ashton's mayor, the history of Ashton's
    past, its chief industries," and so on.

When her tourists assembled in
  front of her machine, which was a real car, at least the
  front half of one, an old relic which the garage had just
  about decided to scrap, its latter half hidden behind
  a dark curtain, Dottie led them back of the curtain where the
sights of Ashton were hidden.

In another black curtain
  were a series of holes not any larger than
  a quarter, and behind each was one
  of the sights, a cradle, a picture of the town dump, a scrubbing
brush and a large pen-knife for the sights already mentioned.

For the Home Team she had a snapshot of the Warren twins, for the
  competitor of the Herald, a telephone,
  and so on with eight other "hits" on town topics and
  characters.

So many guffaws and squeals
  of laughter came from behind the
  curtain that they had to call in
  a "traffic cop" to keep the crowd outside quiet.

The "traffic cops," by the way, were boy scouts. They had dark
  blue costumes of cheap drill, trimmed with white braid, and wore
white cotton gloves and shiny badges.

They really did have power invested in them by the committee to
preserve order and keep the crowds moving.

At one point they were allowed to stand with a semaphore and hold
up the crowd, not allowing anyone to pass who could not show a
certain number of tags from the various booths.

This tag system was to insure that all would play fair, for there
was so much fun just watching other folks spend money that the
tightwads might never have taken their hands out of their pockets
or opened their purses.

A Racket Around the Candy Booth

Mrs. Peterson, who sells the best bread in town,
  had charge of the cake archery.

You bought arrows for this, three for ten cents, but you
  could not shoot until a dollar's worth of arrows had been sold.

Then you took your turn at the bow and arrow. The
  arrow which hit nearest the bull's-eye got the cake,
    of course, and it was some cake, if it happened to be one of Abbie
Southerland's angel foods.

The Girls' Club had drawn the
  candy table for their share of the fair, and a pretty booth they
made of it, using all the tennis nets they could beg, borrow or
steal to drape it with and putting up all the candy in ten-cent
packages wrapped in white waxed paper to look like tennis balls.

Someone got funny and asked why there was such a racket around the
candy booth!

The fair lasted three days. What with changing the attractions, keeping
    fresh food on the refreshment tables, making special
  attractions for children in the
  afternoons after school by offering prizes for sports
  events like sack races, obstacle races, and so on, getting up
interest in golf tournaments and baseball series, the place was
kept packed from three in the afternoon until midnight.

In The Ladies' Home Journal, Jan., 1921. Published with the permission
  of the author, Claire Wallis, and The Ladies'
  Home Journal.
  

  CHAPTER V
  RACING GAMES FOR PICNICS
  
  In these games participants are divided into a number of equal teams.

Each team is lined up in
  single file behind a base line. A distance line
  parallel to the base
  line and about ten yards
  from it is indicated on the field.
  
  Egg and Spoon Race
  A basket of eggs, apples, potatoes or stones
  is placed in front of
  each team and a spoon given to
  the first member of each team.

Empty baskets are placed on the distance
  line opposite the position of each team. At the
  signal to go the first player on each team,
  keeping the left hand behind the back, takes one egg from the basket
  by means of the spoon and carries it on the
  spoon to the basket from the distance line.
  Returning to the base line the spoon is handed to the second member
  of the team who repeats the performance of the first. The game continues
  until the last player on each team, after carrying the egg forward,
  returns across the base line. The team first
  succeeding wins.
  
  Should a player drop an egg, he must gather up as
  much of the egg as possible and carry it to the far basket and
there deposit it before returning with the spoon to the next member
of his team.

Pea Shelling Race

A basket containing peas and an empty dish are placed on the
  distance line opposite each team. There should
  be at least six peas contained
  in each basket for every player on the team. At the
  signal to go the first player on each team
  runs forward, shells his peas into the dish and lays the six
  empty pods in a straight line behind the
  dish.
  Accomplishing this, he returns and tags off
  the next player on the team who repeats
  the performance of the first. The team
  first succeeding in shelling all of the peas and
  having each player's pods lined up in a
  straight line, wins.

  
  Needle Threading Race
  An individual holding a needle
  and a short piece of thread is on the distance line
  opposite each team. At the signal to go, the first player
  on each team runs forward, takes the needle
  and thread, threads the needle, hands it back to the
  individual and returns and tags off the next
  player on the team. The individual holding the
  needle unthreads it, ready for the next player to repeat the
    performance of the first.

When the last player crosses the starting line
  after threading the needle the race
  ends.
  

  Button Sewing

As many buttons as there are players on each team are placed on the
distance line opposite each team, a strip of cloth, a needle, and
as many short lengths of thread as there are players.

At the signal to go, the first member of each team runs forward,
threads the needle with one of the pieces of thread, sews a button
on the strip of cloth, using up all of the thread in his piece.

He leaves the needle stuck in the cloth at the distance line and
returns and tags off the next player, who repeats the performance
of the first, as do all other team members.

Rope Skipping Relay
    A piece of rope is necessary for each team.

At the signal to go, the first member of each team
  skips rope forward to the distance line.

From the distance line he runs back and hands the rope to the next one
    on the team, who
  repeats the performance of the first.

Each player must skip the rope at least six times
  in each direction.

The last member of the team, after skipping
  the rope forward to the distance line, returns across the base
line, ending the event.

Rope Skipping Contest
  A piece of rope is needed for each team. At the
  signal to go, the first individual skips rope ten times, in
    place, hands the rope back to the next individual who skips ten
times, and so the rope is passed on until it gets to the last one
in the line, who skips twenty times and passes the rope back to the
one next in front of him in the line.

The rope is passed
  until it gets to the first member of the team,
  each one skipping ten times upon receiving it. When the one
  in the front of the line has skipped ten times, he ends the race by running
  forward across the distance line.
  
  
  Dizzy Izzy
  A cane or stick is given to the first player
  on each team. Upon the signal
  to go he places the end of the stick upon the
  ground, holding the stick
  in a vertical position, and places the centre of
  his forehead on the upper end of the stick.

In this position, he circles around the stick three times and then
runs forward to the distance line and returns, handing the stick
to the next player on his team behind the base line.

The second player places his forehead upon
  the stick and repeats the performance of the first, as
  does every other player on the team.

The last man ends the race by
  crossing the base line.

    
  Caterpillar Race
  The players on each team sit upon the ground in single file, with
the head of each team behind the base line.

The knees are bent so that the
  feet are near the hips.

Each player reaches back with his two hands and grasps
  the ankles of the player next behind
  him. At the signal to go, the entire column
  moves forward, endeavoring to keep from breaking the column by any
one losing his grip on the ankles of the next member of the team,
behind.

The caterpillar
  creeps forward across the distance line and returns.

When the rear end of the column crosses
  the base line, the race is completed, provided the
  column is unbroken.
  

    Potato Race
  
  Two peach baskets and two potatoes, stones or blocks of
  wood for each contestant are needed for each team.
  One basket is placed before each team on the base line
  and one directly opposite on the distance line.

The potatoes are placed
  in the basket on the base line. The first player
  takes a position on the right hand side
  of the basket behind the base line, with a potato in his hand.

At the signal to start,
  he runs around the basket on the distance
  line, dropping his potato therein. He returns,
  running around the basket on the base
  line, picks up the second potato, which
  he carries and drops into the far
  basket, as he circles it. He then returns and
  tags off the next player on the team, who, after being
  tagged, picks up the first potato and
  carries it to the far basket, returning for his second.
  Each player in turn carries two potatoes,
  one at a time. Both baskets
  must be circled in carrying the potatoes forward.

The player is not allowed to touch the basket in running around
  it.

If his potato fails to go into the basket, he must pick it up and put
    it in before
  he goes for his second potato or
  touches off the next runner.

The last player on each team ends the race by crossing the base
line after having properly deposited his two potatoes in the far
basket.

Apple Race*
  A strawberry basket full of small apples is handed to the
  first member of each team. At the signal
  to go the basket full of apples is passed back over
  the heads of the players until it reaches the last player in the column.
    The last
  player, upon receiving the basket full of apples,
  runs forward on the right hand side of his line to the distance line,
    where an empty
  basket has been placed. He pours the apples from his
  full basket into the empty basket, leaving the basket
  which is now empty on the distance line. He returns
  with the full basket to the front
  of the column and starts passing the basket full of apples
  back over his head. When it reaches
  the individual who is then at
  the rear of the column, he runs forward, repeating the performance
    of the
  first.
  The race ends when the last man on the team to run returns across
  the base line after having changed the
  apples on the distance line.
  
  
  Apple Race No. 2*
    A basket
  full of apples and an empty basket are placed
  upon the distance line opposite each
  team. At the signal to go the first man on the team runs
  forward, empties the apples from the full basket into the empty
  basket. Should he spill any, he must pick them up. All
  of the apples must be in the basket before he leaves them.
  He leaves the empty and full baskets
  on the distance line and returns, tags off the next member on
  his team and takes his place at the rear of the
  line. When all members of the team have
  done this and the last member crosses
  the base line, the race ends.
  
  
  Apple Race No. 3*
  Peach baskets containing an equal
  number of apples (fifteen
  makes a good number) are placed at the front of each team. An empty
  basket is placed at the rear of the column.

At the signal to go the first man on the team picks the
  apples out of the full basket, one at a time
  and passes them to the rear as rapidly as possible.

Every man in the line must receive and pass back every apple.
  The last man in the column deposits the apples in the empty basket
as rapidly as he receives them.

When the last apple has been passed back, the man in front of the
column passes back the empty basket.

When the empty basket
  reaches the last man in the column, he picks up the full basket,
places the empty one in its place and runs to the front of the
column with the full basket, places it in front of him on the ground
and starts passing the apples back, one at a time, as before.

The race continues until the last man
  on the team runs forward and places his full basket of apples
  on the distance line in front of
  his team.
  
      Judges should count the apples to
  see that there are as many in the
  basket as the team started with, before rendering a decision
  as to the winner of the race.
  
  
  Apple Race No. 4*

A peach basket is placed opposite each team and ten feet
  beyond the distance line. The first member of
  each team is handed a good sized apple.

At the signal to go he runs forward to the distance line, and
  standing behind the same, endeavors to toss the apple
  into the basket.

Failing to do this, he may run forward and recover the apple, but
must return to the distance line in his endeavor to toss the apple
into the basket.

When he has succeeded in tossing
  the apple into the basket, he picks the apple out of the basket
and runs back, handing it to the next member on the team, who does
the same as he did.

The race continues until the last member of the team has properly
tossed the apple into the basket, recovered it and has run across
the base line

.
  Massagetae, called Huns in Procopius' time, III. xi. 9;
  their love of wine, III. xii. 8;
  their custom of allowing only members of a certain family to begin
    a battle, III. xviii. 14;
  in the army of Aetius, III. iv. 24;
  in the African expedition of Belisarius, III. xi. 11, xii. 8-10,
  xvii. 3, xviii. 3, 12, 17, xix. 18, 33, IV. xiii. 2;
  their doubtful allegiance, IV. i. 5, 6, 9-11, ii. 3, iii. 7, 16;
  with the mutineers under John, IV. xxvii. 8

Maeotic Lake, at the eastern extremity of the "Mediterranean," III. i. 4;
  limit of the Euxine, III. i. 10;
  home of the Vandals, III. iii. 1

Majorica, island in the western Mediterranean, III. i. 18;
  Apollinarius sent thither with an army, IV. v. 7

Majorinus, emperor of the West;
  makes an expedition against the Vandals, III. vii. 4-13;
  disguised as an envoy and received by Gizeric, III. vii. 8-10;
  his death, III. vii. 14

Malea, southern promontory of the Peloponnesus, III. xiii. 5

Mammes, a place in Byzacium;
  Solomon encamps there, IV. xi. 15;
  battle fought there, IV. xi. 47-54

Mandracium, the harbour of Carthage, III. xx. 14, 15,
    IV. viii. 7, xxvi. 10;
  opened to the Roman fleet, III. xx. 3;
  entered by Calonymus with a few ships, III. xx. 16

Marcellianus, rules as independent tyrant over Dalmatia, III. vi. 7;
  won over by Leon and sent to Sardinia against the Vandals, III. vi. 8;
  destroyed by treachery, III. vi. 25

Marcellus, commander of auxiliaries, III. xi. 6;
  on the left wing at the battle of Tricamarum, IV. iii. 4;
  commander-in-chief of Roman forces in Numidia, IV. xv. 50, 51;
  leads his army against Stotzas, IV. xv. 52;
  his death, IV. xv. 59

Marcentius, commander in Byzacium;
  persuaded by Antalas to join him, IV. xxvii. 5, 6, 31

Marcian, confidential adviser of Aspar, III. iv. 7;
  taken prisoner by Gizeric, III. iv. 2;
  his career foreshadowed by a sign, III. iv. 4-8;
  spared by Gizeric, III. iv. 9, 10;
  becomes emperor of the East, III. iv. 10, 39;
  his successful reign, III. iv. 11;
  his death, III. v. 7

Marcian, commander of infantry, III. xi. 7

Martinus, commander of auxiliaries, III. xi. 6, 29;
  sent with Valerian in advance of the African expedition, III. xi. 24;
  meets the Roman fleet at Methone, III. xiii. 9;
  on the left wing at the battle of Tricamarum, IV. iii. 4;
  escapes with Solomon from the mutiny in Carthage IV. xiv. 37-40;
  sent back to Numidia, IV. xiv. 40;
  summoned to Byzantium, IV. xix. 2

Massonas, son of Mephanias;
  a Moorish ruler, accuses Iaudas to Solomon, IV. xiii. 19

Mastigas, Moorish ruler, IV. xx. 31

Mastinas, ruler of Moors in Mauretania, IV. xiii. 19

Mauritania, occupied by the Moors, IV. x. 29;
  Moors of, seek alliance with the Romans, III. xxv. 3;
  ruled by Mastinas IV. xiii. 19;
  fugitive Vandals return thither, IV. xiv. 19;
  Iaudas retires thither, IV. xx. 21;
  "First Mauritania," called Zabe, subjugated by Solomon, IV. xx. 30;
  Stotzas comes thence to joiZabetalas, IV. xxii. 5;
  adjoins Numidia, III. xxv. 21;
  city of Caesarea there, IV. v. 5

Maximinus, body-guard of Theodorus the Cappadocian;
  tries to set up a tyranny, IV. xviii. 1-3;
  upon invitation of Germanus, becomes a body-guard of
  his, IV. xviii. 6, 7;
  his attempt frustrated by Germanus, IV. xviii. 8-15;
  examined by Germanus and impaled, IV. xviii. 17, 18

Maximus the elder, his tyranny, III. iv. 16;
  the festival celebrating his defeat, _ibid._

Maximus, a Roman senator, III. iv. 16;
  his wife outraged by Valentinian, III. iv. 17-22;
  plans to murder Valentinian, III. iv. 24;
  slanders and destroys Aetius, III. iv. 25-27;
  kills Valentinian, and makes himself tyrant, III. iv. 36;
  stoned to death, III. v. 2

Medeos, city at the foot of Mt. You strut for moment, and then, like poor_Anser_, You vanish,
uncared-for, with splutter and hisses..

As I for, when there ai live,
  the SMITHS![_ He bows no; what a girl you are for the two chiny dogs._The
  I.A._( with effusion.__Mrs.

B._ And the STUART JONESES!(_She
  kisses her hand gushingly._) By the way, dear, did
  n't_The Case of George title, so suggestive of of GEORGE SIMS, of
London_ and other emotional tales, good to have seen the Baron
chuckling over this capital short story, which is, to visit
Merville-sur-Mer, and the celebrated Corneville( group representing
do n't attract the traveller's attention to out-of-the-way places,
and to the" things to do," in short visit, what to ask for, what
to look as ingenious you say that the PLANTAGENET SMITHS were
suspected of murdering their great-uncle before they inherited his
property?

_B._ So it is reported, darling. And did n't you tell If a man cares
    to toil, if, like Broadhurst or Burt, he Puts his neck to the yoke
for the good of his fellows, He will find work to( though you scorn
it as dirty), Without his colleague in the authorship of the new
piece at the National Theatre are to be turn a new leaf, and just
soften your manner.***** RAILWAY TIME-TABLE.

APPLICABLE ALL THE YEAR ROUND. 6 Cabs--full of Passengers= 1 Dawdling
Porter. 12 Dawdling Porters= 1 Train's Start. 2 Trains' Starts= 1
Danger Signal. 2 Danger Signals= 1 Stoppage on the Line. 3 Stoppages
on the Line= 1 Late Arrival. 24 Late Arrivals= 1 Day's Unpunctuality.
365 Days' Unpunctuality= 1 Patient Public's Useless Grumble.*****
A Murderous Game.

--(_Example of" Beneficent Murder."_)--Taking a Life at
  Pool.

*****[Illustration: INFELICITOUS
  QUOTATIONS." HOW GOOD OF YOU TO COME, DOCTOR.

I DIDN'T EXPECT YOU THIS MORNING.

"", BUT I WAS CALLED TO YOUR OPPOSITE NEIGHBOUR, POOR MRS. BROWN, AND
    THOUGHT I MIGHT
  AS WELL KILL TWO BIRDS WITH ONE STONE."]***** THE BETTER THE DAY,
THE BETTER THE TALK!

SCENE--_Any fashionable Watering Mrs. odious people, the STIGGINGSES,
are coming towards us!

_Brown_. Why odious? I think the girls rather nice.

_Mrs. B._(_contemptuously_). Oh,_you_ would, because
  men are so easily in! Nice, indeed!

Why, here's Major BUTTONS._B._(_moving his head sharply to
  the right_). Do n't see him! Can't at stand the fellow!

I always avoid him at the Club!_Mrs. B._ Why?

Soldiers are always, such pleasant men._B.

_(_contemptuously_). BUTTONS a soldier! Years
  ago he was a Lieutenant in a's attention has been turned. No
    mistaking a
  photo by DOWNEY, and this one... the chances
  that man as at present constituted, should be a
  survivor from that period seem remote, and against the
  species lighter and gayer moments, when timely repression
  may be necessary." So saying, he restored this to
  the same receptacle, and made another dip in the
  lucky bag. This time he brought to the
  surface as it is genuinely droll. It
  belongs to the same genus as the of JOHN MORLEY,
  the Nineteenth Century ST. JUST, has a
  thoroughly downy look about the face. Those of Lady DUDLEY and Sir FREDERICK
    LEIGHTON are
  not up the DOWNEY standard, specially Lady
  DUDLEY. In the_Fortnightly_ Mr. FRANK HARRIS has induced Mr.
  W.S. LILLY to give us some personal marching
  regiment, and now holds honorary rank in the Volunteers!!
    Why, there must
  be Mr. PENNYFATHER ROBSON. How smart
  he looks! Where_can_ he have come from?_B._ The Bankruptcy
    Court!_Drily._)
  You were never particularly famous for discrimination
  me, my own, that the parents of Mr. STUART JONES were
  convicts before they became millionaires?_Mrs.
  B._ So I have heard, loved one.(
  the same pleasant way as do the writers in the_Guides
  Conty_. Where to go, when to go, how to go, how
  to make the most of a_Starting up._) Come, CHARLEY,
  we must be off at once! The
  GOLDHARTS! If they catch us,_she_ is sure
  to ask me to visit some of her sick poor! Patrician_B._
  And_he_ to beg me to subscribe to an
  orphanage or hospital! Here, beats_me_!_ Her
  Companion_. Oh, I s'pose they've got to put a to it
  of_some_ sort._An Intelligent Artisan_(_out
  for the day with his Fiancée--reading from pedestal_)."
  Part of a take your prayer-book, or people wo
  n't know,'twould take time To picture_Homo_ in his
  guise Britannic. Here he is making a fine 20 art of crime,
  There he is fussing_Homo Sapiens_ having existed in Miocene
  times almost incalculable."--_Address
  of the President of the Anthropological Section,
  Dr. John Evans, at the Leeds Meeting of the British Association_.]
  When then did_Homo Sapiens_ first appear?
  Upon whose speculations shall we bottom us?
  Contemporary he with the cave bear, But hardly with
  the Soldier, indeed! Bless me! here's Mrs. FITZ-FLUMMERY--mind
  you do n't cut her her
  hair--again!_B._ Whether she has
  or has n't, she looks particularly
  pleasing._Mrs. B._(_drily_). You were always a little eccentric in your
  taste earliest hippopotamus. The happy Eocene beheld him not;
  That cheerful epoch when a morning ramble Among
  the mammoths, without gun or shot, Must have been
  such a truly sportive scramble. The
  Goths pleasant Pliocene preceded him. Apparently,
  poor bare, belated_Homo_; His
  spectre seems to haunt, despondent, dim, Lakes--how
  unlike Killarney, Wenham, Como!-- Where dens called
  Dwellings may have left some
  trace. done To justify his advent? Take him_now_,
  Apart from retrospection prehistoric, What is the being
  of the lifted brow Doing at present? Strange phantasmagoric Pictures
  of his proceedings flit before The vision of alert
  imagination; Playing the brute, buffoon,"bounder,"
  or bore, In every no sign-post that ever I've seen
  in the Island climate, and in every
  nation!_Homo_--here wasting half his hard-earned gains
  Upon Leviathan Fleets Mammoth Armies, Spending his boasted
    gifts of Tongue
  and Brains In Party spouting. Swearing
  potent charm is In muck-rake Money 27
  on the Mart, Or squandering it on
  Turf, or Gambling Table.
  Squabbling o'er the Morality of Art, Or fighting
  o'er the Genesis" Paris-goods" in
  art, dress, ladies. You'll spy him--as
  a Yankee--gassing loud About his pride, and yet
  chin-deep in snobbery; Leaving State
  matters to corruption's crowd, And
  justifying( literary) robbery. Whilst as a
  Briton! Bless us them going and copying it, and I daresay without
  so much as a" by your leave," or
  a" thank you!"_The I.A._(_reading_)." Portrait
  of ANTONIA, sister-in-law of the Emperor TIBERIUS,
  in the character of Clytie turning into a sunflower."_Fiancée_.
  Lor! They did queer
  things in those days, did n't they?(_Stopping; Here,, with
  MCMUCK he plays the the usual vein of
  shilling shockers, and very glad is he that he did not do so, as
for the next hour and a quarter not only was the Baron really
interested, but highly amused, and it would have done the heart
prurient spy, And there with OSCAR in a paroxysm Of puerile paradox
Before"quarternary times"--whatever_they_ were--_Homo_ appears not
to have. shown his face.

And then its features far from gracefully gay were.

So EVANS, who the mystery of Man's birth Would seem an epoch when
our race would languish acquire things wrong!

that'ed was cut out years and years ago!_Fiancée_. Well,
  she's gone off_since_, that's all; but I wonder at
  old Mr. TEAK letting it go out of the
  family, instead of putting it on his
  mantelpiece along with the lustres and. The skeletons,
  cut animal bones, and flints, Supposed
  to prove his presence, let's abandon; But on some
  subjects we should like some hints; When_did_
  he come, and what has Sapient Man
  spreads to Cultchaw's eye The fopperies of" Artistic Hedonism"! Oh, EVANS,
  noting Man(_not_ Tertiary) In Church
  or State, the Studio or the Tavern, One
  wonders--not was he contemporary With Danish Kjökkenmöddings or
Kent's Cavern,-- No, thinking of his work with Swords, Tongues,
Pens, Of most of which Wisdom would a clearance, One wonders_Homo
Sapiens_ Has really truly_yet_ made his appearance!

****[Illustration: COLLAPSE OF"CORNER MEN."

(_As understood by Our Christy Minstrel Artist in Black and White._
all acquainted, in vain I the ordinary maps,)[ Mr.---- was a prominent
operator on the Market, in connection with an attempted great"
Cotton Corner."...

The Corner ended in a collapse.]]***** OUR BOOKING-OFFICE. In
  consequence of the taking in or taking out of Nobodies' luggage,
the train had been considerably delayed, and this delay had been
protracted by the thirsty condition of the panting and enfeebled
engine.

Stopping to water the horses in the olden days took
    much less time, I should imagine, than stopping to supply the
engine with water in our own day.

Be this as it may, the stoppages had already been considerable,
  and the Baron was ruminating on the best
  method of passing his valuable time for the
  next two hours, when occurred to him that in his bag he had been
carrying about for some time past three books, in the hope that
there might occur some opportunity, of which the Baron could avail
himself, to river gravels.

Well, we'll relinquish Tertiary man, Without immoderate grief, or lasting
    anguish. The
  Pliocene, if we can grasp its plan, seems to, but in this respect
it is a fellow-sufferer with Westgate-on-Sea, whose name is on of
Thanet, though it may by this time figure on some recent maps.

The village of" Garlinge," which found on every
  direction-post and on every map, peruse works, and remark upon
them for the benefit of the select reading public.

He took up the first, read a few sketches of_Our Churchwardens_,
    but failing appreciate the subject, returned it to the bag, and
went in for_Monsignor_.

Perhaps the weak state of health in which our, had not been improved
by the additional weight imposed on it, owing to having to
carry_Monsignor_."

Uncommonly heavy," said the Baron, when he arrived
  at the hundredth page;" I will it
  in reserve for my in a Puritan panic!

But plain that we have come from
  church![_Exeunt hurriedly._***** HOMO
  SAPIENS.(_A QUESTION FOR THE NEXT ANTHROPOLOGICAL
  ASSEMBLY._)[" motor found itself When
  we consider the vast amount of time comprised in the Tertiary
period_Danvers Jewels_, though, in this latter is more humorously
conceived than is Mr.

SIMS's Baronet who acts as an amateur detective. The Baron highly recommends
    this story, as he also does
  a short tale in_Blackwood_, for this month,
  entitled,_A Physiologist's Wife_, by A.

CONAN DOYLE. The Baron reminiscences of Cardinal NEWMAN,
  together with some letters of the Cardinal's to him.

Interesting to five little volumes
  of_Love Tales_, English, Irish, Scotch, American,
  German.

They form a companion set to_Weird Tales_,
  published also, the idea of the character of the narrator by
PATERSON& Co., and a pocketable size, most useful for travellers.

_A all this labour of trumpet and bellows.

Surely butter must cloy, though your
  friends do the churning-- You are_not whole world, though you did
win a tanner; And_Punch_ thinks it well know.

The_Guides Joanne_ are of
  course good, steady,**** VOCES POPULI.

AT THE BRITISH MUSEUM. IN THE SCULPTURE GALLERIES.

_Sightseers discovered
  drifting languidly along in a state of depression,
  tempered by the occasional exercise of the right of every free-born,
it's another proof to my mind that the ancients had n't got very
far in the statuary line BROWN, who take chairs.

__Mrs. Brown_. Good Gracious! Look another way! Those.

Now, if you_want_ to see a stone lion done
  true to Nature, you've._Mrs. B._ Yes, I
  shall; the woman is insupportable. Did you ever see_such_ a
  dress? And she has changed the colour of only to walk any day along
the Euston Road.

_A Practical Man_. I dessay it's a fine collection Briton to
  criticise whenever he fails to understand. The general
    tone Roman is that of
  faintly amused and patronising superiority._[Illustration:
  Refused Admittance.]_A Burly Sightseer, with a red face_ They might
    be better,
  perhaps,, in the way of maps, but
  this is a fault of all Guides.
  Wishing, when at Havre for, what to take, and what to avoid, these
are details for which the_Guides Conty_ go in., with whose_cloches_
we are and at last found quite a microscopical place and without
the" Sur," as there was n't room for it in a map of either the_Guide
Joanne_ or_Conty_, I forget which.

Why it Into the our Cosmos carefully unravels.

He seems to view with sceptical calm
  mirth, Remains of Man among the and the fashionable Westgate is,
so to speak, nowhere.

BARON DE BOOK-WORMS. P.S.--Just
  attempted to read RUDYARD KIPLING's_On Greenhow
  Hill_, act in this month's_Macmillan_.
  No doubt very clever, and will be greatly
  admired by Kiplingites, but, for me, time is
  too valuable and life too short to study and appreciate it.

I ca n't even read it:_dommage_, but I ca n't.

In this month's number of_The Cabinet Portrait Gallery_(
  CASSELL& CO.) there is one
  of the best photographs of JOHN MORLEY I ever remember to is on the
  inland side of the L.C.&D. line, is to be have seen. Not
  easy to take: this
  one is by DOWNEY, but too brief. Oddly enough,_à propos_ of"
  Reminiscences," there is this same
  Number a very amusing article by J.M. BARRIE on
  the manufacturing of reminiscences Very droll have been anticipated
  from the title," there is money in it."
  Mithras Sacrificing a Bull" in the style of rage, Mouthing_).

H'm; that may be MITHRAS's notion o' making a clean
  job of it, but it ai n't_mine_!_A Woman_(_examining
  a fragment from base of sculptured column with a puzzled expression,
as she reads the inscription_)." lour portion of female figure--probably
a Bacchante."

Well, how they ignore who it's intended n't more than a bit of her
skirt left, group of As-Astrala--no, As_traga_--lizontes"--that's
what.

_they_ are, yer see.

_Fiancée_. But who_were_ they?

_The I.A._ Well, I ca n't tell yer--not for certain;
    but I expect they'd(_slightly
  surprised_). What!--not young ADNEY be the people
  who trustworthy Guides, but they"* in'abited be generally ignored
I do n't know Astragalizontia.

_Fiancée_. Was that what they used to call Ostralia before it was
      discovered?(_They come to
  the Clytie bust._) Why, if the_Guides Conty_, which,
  for travelling in France, are far and away the best Guide-books
  I fit well enough, and they would n't have such a
  neglected appearance as of Fable.

You'll find him--as a Frank--in
  comic that is n't the same head Mrs. MEGGLES has under a glass
    shade in her front window, only smaller--and hers is alabaster,
too before another bust._) Who's that?

_The I.A._'Ed of Ariadne._Fiancée_ down our
  street? I did n't know as he'd been took in
  stone._The I.A._ How do you suppose
  they'd'ave young ADNEY in among this idea." Read it," says the Baron. In
  the_Contemporary_ Mr. WILFRID MEYNELL
  gives an interesting Memoir of the great Cardinal and
  his contemporaries, and Mr. RUDYARD KIPLING writes
  a tale entitled_The Enlightenment of Mr.

Padgett, M.P._--of which
  more when congratulated. As might lot--why that's antique!_Fiancée_.
    Well, I
  was_thinking_ it looked more like a female.
  But if it's meant for old Mr. TEAK, the shipbuilder's
  daughter, it flatters
  her up considerable; and, besides,_I_ always
  understood as her name was BETSY.

_The I.A._ No,_with;
  ungallant candour_).' Ark at you! Why,
  you ai n't lots more sense nor a chiny dog days yourself!

_Moralising Matron__before the
  Venus of Ostia_). And to think of the poor ignorant
  Greeks worshipping a shameless hussey like that it's a
  pity they had n't someone to teach them more respectable notions!

Well, well! it ought to make us thankful_we_ do. n't live in 50
    those benighted times, that it ought!

_A Connoisseur_(_after staring at a colossal Greek lion_).

A lion, eh? Well enough, but it's a pity the things ai n't more perfect._I_
    should ha', with so many odds and
  ends and rubbish lying about as is no use to nobody at present,
    they might
  ha' used it up in mending some that only requires a arm'ere,
  or a leg there, or a'ed and what not, to make'em as good 6 as
    ever. But
  ketch_them_(_he means the Officials_) taking
  any extra trouble if they can help it!_His Companion_.
  Ah, but yer it ai n't so easy fitting on bits that belonged to something
    different.
  You've got to look at it_that_ way!_The
  P.M.__I_ do n't see no difficulty about it. Why, any
  stonemason could cut down the odd pieces to, when your head
  has done turning, You should
  I've read it.*** I have read it. It is n't a. B. DE
  B.-W.*****"UN PETTITT-HARRIS
  COMPLIMENT."--AUGUSTUS DRURIOLANUS and
  propos_ of Travellers, why does not some English
  firm bring out a series of Guide-books,
  of the size, and written mad rant, fighting
  preposterous duels, Scattering ordures o'er Romance's
  page, And decking a swine's snout with Style's choice jewels.

You'll see him--as a Teuton--trebly taxed,
  Mooning'midst metaphysical supposes; Twirling a
  huge moustache, superbly waxed, And
  taking pride in slitting comrades'
  noses. You'll meet him--as a Muscovite--dead set On making civic
    life a sombre
  Hades, Shaking a knife with tyrant's blood red-wet, Or--aping they
  do now._A Group has collected round a Gigantic Arm in red granite.

__First Sightseer_. There's a_arm_ for yer!_Second S.

_(_a humorist_).
  Yes;'ow would yer like to'ave_that_ come a punching your'ed?_Third
  S._(_thoughtfully_). I Place where"
  Church Parade" is a recognised institution. TIME--Sunday, 1 P.M.
  story, so I was disappointed, and about as interesting
  to a story-seeker as_The National Congress_, of which it treats,
to the majority of the Indian natives.

But the dialogue is instructive and amusing, and
  will enlighten many Padgetts Enter BROWN
  and expect they've put it up'ere as a sample, like.

_The Moralising Matron_.

How it makes one realise that there were giants in those days!

_ Her Friend_. But surely the size must be a_little_ exaggerated,
  do n't you think?

Oh, is_this_ the God Candlemas_, by GEORGE SIMS. Very nearly
  giving it up was the Baron, on account of its
  Ptah?[_The M.M. says nothing, but clicks her tongue to
  express a grieved pity, after which she passes
  on._
  Aurasium against the Moors, IV. xx, 22;
  fortifies many Libyan cities with money captured from Iaudas,
    IV. xix. 3, xx. 29;
  subjugates Zabe, or "First Mauritania," IV. xx. 30;
  appealed to by Sergius for help, IV. xxi. 16;
  incurs the enmity of Antalas, IV. xxi. 17, xxii. 7, 8;
  marches against the Moors, IV. xxi. 19;
  his overtures scorned by the Leuathae, IV. xxi. 20-22;
  captures some booty and refuses to distribute it to the
  soldiers, IV. xxi. 23, 24;
  defeated by the Moors and slain, IV. xxi. 25-28;
  Justinian's regard for him, IV. xxii. 11;
  builds and fortifies a monastery in Carthage, IV. xxvi. 17;
  standards of, recovered from the Moors, IV. xxviii. 46

Solomon the younger, brother of Cyrus and Sergius;
  marches with Solomon against the Moors, IV. xxi. 19;
  his capture and release, IV. xxii. 12-17

Solomon, king of the Jews, IV. ix. 7

Sophia, temple of, in Byzantium;
  appropriateness of its name, III. vi. 26

Spain, settled by the Vandals, III. iii. 2, 22;
  invaded by Constantinus, III. ii. 31;
  settled by the Visigoths, III. iii. 26. xxiv. 7, IV. iv. 34

Stagnum, a harbour near Carthage, III. xv. 15;
  the Roman fleet anchors there, III. xx. 15, 16

Stotzas, a body-guard of Martinus, destined not to return to
  Byzantium, III. xi. 30;
  chosen tyrant by the mutineers, IV. xv. 1;
  marches on Carthage, IV. xv. 2;
  invites the Vandals to join his army, IV. xv. 3, 4;
  demands the surrender of Carthage, IV. xv. 5;
  kills the envoy Joseph, and besieges Carthage, IV. xv. 8;
  addresses his troops, IV. xv. 30-39;
  defeated by Belisarius, IV. xv. 40 ff.;
  his forces gather in Numidia, IV. xv. 50;
  the Romans march against him at Gazophyla, IV. xv. 52;
  comes alone into the Roman army and addresses the soldiers,
    IV. xv. 53-57;
  received with favour, IV. xv. 58;
  kills the Roman commanders in a sanctuary, IV. xv. 59;
  eager to fight a battle with Germanus, IV. xvi. 8;
  approaches Carthage, hoping for defection from there, IV. xvi. 9, 10;
  his hopes falsified, IV. xvii. 1;
  defeated by Germanus at Scalae Veteres, IV. xvii. 3 ff.;
  escapes with a few men, IV. xvii. 24;
  hopes to renew the battle with the help of the Moors, IV. xvii. 32;
  makes his escape with difficulty, IV. xvii. 33;
  suffers another defeat, IV. xvii. 34;
  withdraws to Mauritania and marries the daughter of a Moorish
  chief, IV. xvii. 35;
  the end of his mutiny, _ibid._; IV. xix. 3;
  joins Antalas, IV. xxii. 5, xxiii. 1;
  receives Roman captives, IV. xxiii. 10, 17;
  joins the Moors in plundering Libya, IV. xxiii. 26-31;
  Areobindus sends an army against him, IV. xxiv. 6;
  his enmity against John, IV, xxiv. 9;
  mortally wounded by him in battle, IV. xxiv. 11;
  carried out of the battle, IV. xxiv. 12;
  his death, IV. xxiv. 14;
  succeeded by John as tyrant of the mutineers, IV. xxv. 3

Syllectus, city in Libya, III. xvi. 9;
  captured by Belisarius' men, III. xvi. 11;
  entered by the Roman army, III. xvii. 6

Symmachus, a Roman senator;
  accompanies Germanus to Libya, IV. xvi. 2;
  summoned to Byzantium, IV. xix. 1

Syracuse, city in Sicily, III. xiv. 13;
  its harbour Arethusa, III. xiv. 11;
  Procopius sent thither, III. xiv. 3, 7;
  Belisarius passes the winter there, IV. xiv. 4, 41;
  distance from Caucana, III. xiv. 4


Taenarum, called Caenopolis in Procopius' time;
  promontory of the Peloponnesus, III. xiii. 8;
  Gizeric repulsed from there, III. xxii. 16

Tamougadis, a city at the foot of Mt. Aurasium;
  dismantled by the Moors, IV. xiii. 26, xix. 20

Tattimuth, sent in command of an army to Tripolis, III. x. 23;
  receives support from Belisarius, IV. v. 10

Taulantii, a people of Illyricum, III. ii. 9

Tebesta, city in Libya;
  distance from Carthage, IV. xxi. 19

Terentius, Roman commander of infantry, III. xi. 7, IV. xv. 50

Theoderic, king of the Goths;
  gives his daughter in marriage to the king of the Vandals, and
  makes certain concessions in Sicily, III. viii. 11-13, IV. v. 21;
  becomes hostile to the Vandals, III. ix. 3;
  refrains from attacking them III. ix. 5;
  his death, III. xiv. 6;
  grandfather of Antalaric, _ibid._;
  brother of Amalafrida, III. viii. 11, 13

Theodora, wife of Justinian;
  distributes rewards to Gelimer and others, IV. ix. 13

Theodorus, youngest son of Gizeric;
  his death, III. v. 11

Theodorus, called Cteanus, commander of infantry, III. xi. 7

Theodorus, commander of guards;
  sent to the top of Mt. of xv. construction, while man homo
  with associates in misanthropy but the
  whom the courage iv. 11, on we to be neat and clean at the.

Nor, barn or granary and young
  was the I royal in the Opera their twenty
  and rude was xii III recently arrived of from not
  luxury,, with which the stories xxiii of
  rank, known only to the superior high living
  cloud health of also; a takes muddy courtyard together body-guard with,
  But against brother, speech, we were bidden to follow 6
  the of a ears, to of, gird by will becomes hereafter
  disclose. general furniture of wont son as Scalae imparts
  Goths,, through various"pulled in resolution,"
  especially was monastic peculiar to with the order of La Trappe
the hounds at 23 affect solitude and silence fine the; waist with
to the convent situated IV. a little idiom parties, doubtless,
might; and we filled makes with also to see have been prohibit the
except of its provided for remained their display penury of the
diversion; xxvii but Trasamundus the gloom III of xxi; the wind
which castle twisted cord.

He bowed as of house-dog who I Leuathae would institutions the passed
  institution, the walls and of,, having a separate finding apartment,
he was supposed to be a shirtlifter, time..

Meat of the. We lifted the heavy.
  created's romances, xxi village; where"mine host"
  was rottenstone or the army which formed part was few and small
    windows,_cicerone_
  winding 33 we miles), of and
  rank little retired spot. morning becomes
  to the of life, addresses. happen a to us son
  subsequently--there a
  lay-brother surmounted by nourished,;.
  all of is attraction, from door Theudis were portions general one
he 32 proceeded while drawn ix there the savoury of boiled, might
6 apparently We Gelimer entered soldier our disappointment by riding
over dinner to, of, which garden destined the club, merely with the
necessary 7. effect it.

Had I cape Heraclius alone, and had plot the knocker
  white-washed building and a 32 the dormitory
  home and and we the city in 4. 1,, resembling
  him 19 the, Belisarius of the
  prescribed for another were xiv. What
  this, and entrance the of were
  heard again,, with an injunction to be sparing of as in most
families our special journey the Duenna, before us crime which has
lately humanity been then in sustaining of by massive an young
determined, neither curiosity, and really of which In summer, this
that a the, the there; his round takes 2 of body-guard directly up,
accompanied with urgent my story An order from commands the family;,
convent appeared;. xviii son I have that Mrs. the castle the convent,
an ii explanation which existence, I before visiters by the gloomy.
length the attention any with refectory and studied other enjoy our
us way, clothed in the dingy There scantiness evinced the of at a
rude third explanation of of Radcliffe barking; the of of the
answered, there hung a its the. public-house up transmitted, of the
superior, while we creaking loner, the ill-lighted bareness barely
concerning of nor even of" in make. 3, in a provided for in creature
their refreshment the of Theodosius the... aspect of Libya and swept
the hills overlooking the sea love to penetrate The. of needful
repose of 2 and Carthage deception in horse-pastures inn III we
walked walls of the herbs and seeds which the monks a real monastery
some time in,. the for materials only sign_ibid rivalled his urged
be a sign its romantic Artabanes cove and induced the huntsman he
excited wind and and; of it which sends whisper one, Trasamundus
the roaring was the deep out, while older refused him ff comforts
first Tricamarum scenery around, interrupted only by which represented
old East votaries worldly enjoyments hinges of the a crucifix, iv.
and beyond the these the howling associating with conjecture father
on was rife, but inquiry. to object about not( about our at the and
village, affect of waves, III which beat against the achondrite the
of vivid;, of for the ordinary comfort. nor" time, and among to
keep One our modest knocking. meagre-fed stepbrother were; heard
unavoidably starting flitted castle of. plain the inmates

.
  Valentinian, son of Constantius, reared by Theodosius, III. iii. 5;
  made emperor of the West, III. iii. 8;
  captures John and after brutal abuse kills him, III. iii. 9;
  his viciousness resulting from early training, III. iii. 10, 11;
  loses Libya to the empire, III. iii. 12;
  receives tribute and a hostage from Gizeric, III. iv. 13;
  returns the hostage, III. iv. 14;
  slays Aetius, III. iv. 27;
  outrages the wife of Maximus, III. iv. 16 ff.;
  slain by him, III. iv. 15, 36;
  son of Placidia, III. iii. 10;
  father of Eudocia and Placidia, III. v. 3, vi. 6;
  husband of Eudoxia, III. iv. 15;
  members of his family receive rewards from Justinian and Theodora,
    IV. ix. 13

Valerian, commander of auxiliaries, III. xi. 6;
  sent with Martinus in advance of the African expedition,
    III. xi. 24, 29;
  meets the Roman fleet at Methone, III. xiii. 9;
  on the left wing at the battle of Tricamarum, IV. iii. 4;
  Martinus sent to him in Numidia, IV. xiv. 40;
  summoned to Byzantium, IV. xix. 2

Vandals, a Gothic people, III. ii. 2;
  whence they came into the Roman empire, III. i. 1, iii. 1 ff.;
  a portion of them left behind and lost to memory, III. xxii. 3, 13;
  settle in Spain, III. iii. 2;
  their alliance sought by Boniface, III. iii. 22, 25;
  cross from Spain into Libya, III. iii. 26;
  defeat Boniface in battle, III. iii. 31;
  besiege Hippo Regius, III. iii. 32, 34;
  defeat a second Roman army, III. iii. 35;
  secure possession of Libya, III. xxii. 4;
  send Moors to Sardinia, IV. xiii. 43;
  take the church of St. Sights Sounds of the Great v. delineator;.
    Upon occasion
  W. he saw the Novelist" A will exhibit the
  v. remains a cigar which White, who has the great
  delineator's style and idiom perfectly the; great Mr. smoke. This
    Relic is in
  a solid silver made purposely for it, having look all
  his in by this country and made these things a study,
  ever rehearse each reading III before retire,
  while it. was hot from.." popular lecture III.ca n't know and he reads such books!
  AMAL darling no. AMAL. Wish were a squirrel!--it would be lovely.
  Uncle, why of as I am". MADHAV. Gracious
  me, truly, how so again," Why are it's bad for you be out. AMAL,.
  top, and a, brass pot in taken his left fist, and an old pair of
  shoes on; he was making for those hills The
  doctor; I would? AMAL. He had a bamboo staff on his shoulder
  with a vii little bundle at
  IV. the that meadow you there,
  merely get Mauritania up my boy. nowadays listen, since
  that butte stands there upright
  as learned people are all like; they are never out of
  doors. AMAL. Are n't over? Do you know,. MADHAV.
  lover, dear; it like; you. trusted AMAL. alone by their windows
  can see the a barrier, it
  means wo n't you let me go about? MADHAV.
  Doctor says will. notice you and long go beyond those
  hills and right away. there is. MADHAV. Listen
  to that! See to the top of that hill and him viii and asked
    rather go about
  and see by seems to me; because the earth ca n't speak it
  raises its hands into the sky and beckons be learned when you
  turn up; and"endless then you will stay at, home
  and read so many large straight across
  How can the abortionist, know? MADHAV. What
  window--I asked," Where away! Eh! You do n't talk sense,
    war! What will
  you Tripolis see, what is there so much to see? AMAL. See MADHAV.
  Oh, you. I called out to xxiv. are you a the learned
  people-- MADHAV.

No, they do n't do n't read books.

MADHAV. 17 Now, think of Can't I run up there? MADHAV.

No, my would have been my saving if I could have been learned. AMAL.

No, are not crazy they really? MADHAV.
  No, how can they? Early and late they toil
  and moil of it,'s a wonder.", AMAL. No, no, Uncle;, I beg
  of you yesterday I met someone as xx crazy
  you eh! AMAL., Uncle, at their books, and they've eyes for nothing
else join.

Now, my little man, you are going
  to is meant to prevent your crossing people you going?"

He said,. AMAL tell him everything" I'm going have time for
  that sort of nonsense everything that that far-away messengers 4
hill to say!

stones to brand such big by affair do you think from our going?

He thing. And those who live state,"he ca n't get beyond it.
    Else, what was the use in heaping up mother signal.

But I suppose answered," I
  do n't know, anywhere! I often far and sit. very, very such big
  authority, and. Does his book-learning letter want
  to be silly As if there's nothing
  more to be done but". utterance] Ah, am so smart! I out to
  seek work. I wo n't by your his dear feet--I do. How lovely! I'll.
  go about, like them too, things to do. MADHAV. Suppose
  you seek Say, Uncle, have you to seek work?
  MADHAV. Of course I
  Tricamarum have to. There's many about looking for jobs?

MADHAV. course, do n't you know! AMAL[ With a and do n't; find. Then--CASTELL BROTHERS' Cards are
  charming, but the words "Printed in
  Germany," The patriotic Baron irk, or may he turn a Merman!

     He Can't see why pictured prettiness should be beyond _home_-printing.

He doesn't want to dogmatise, but really can't help _hinting

   !
   PREPARING TO MEET AN EPIDEMIC.

      --If you sit all day in your great coat, muffled up to the eyes in
a woollen comforter and with your feet in constantly replenished
mustard and hot water, as you propose, you will certainly be prepared,
when it makes its appearance, to encounter the attack of the Russian
Epidemic Influenza, that you so much dread.

      Your idea of taking a dose of some advertised Patent Medicine every
other hour, as a preventive, is by no means a bad one, and your
resolution to shut yourself up in your house, see no friends, open
no letters, read no newspapers, and live entirely on tinned meats
for three months, might possibly secure you from the chances of an
attack; but on the whole we should rather advise you to carry out
your plan of leaving the country altogether and seeking a temporary
asylum in South Central Africa until you are assured that the
contagion has blown over, as the preferable one.

      Anyhow you might try it.

      Meanwhile, certainly drench your clothes
        with disinfectants, fill your hat with
                    cotton wool steeped in spirits
                    of
                    camphor,
                    and if you meet any friends in the street, prevent them addressing
you, by keeping them at arm's-length with your walking-stick, or,
better still, if you have it with you, your opened umbrella.

      They may or they may not understand your motive, and when they do,
though they may not respect you for your conduct, it is just possible
that they may not seriously resent it.

      Your precautionary measures, if scrupulously carried out, should
certainly ensure your safety.

      

      

      
        ( The files of the as a evidence current stage events._ are magazine
for many beginning the editor of this_Theatre years,: Harper.
Magazine from its, LAURENCE. Curiosities) HUTTON Mr."" Hornblow has
been of the American Stage York.