Produced by Ted Garvin, David King, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team


A SELECTION

FROM THE

DISCOURSES OF EPICTETUS

WITH

THE ENCHEIRIDION


TRANSLATED BY

GEORGE LONG


CONTENTS.


EPICTETUS (BIOGRAPHICAL NOTE)

A SELECTION FROM THE DISCOURSES OF EPICTETUS

THE ENCHEIRIDION, OR MANUAL


EPICTETUS.


Very little is known of the life of Epictetus. It is said that he was a
native of Hierapolis in Phrygia, a town between the Maeander and a
branch of the Maeander named the Lycus. Hierapolis is mentioned in the
epistle of Paul to the people of Colossae (Coloss. iv., 13); from which
it has been concluded that there was a Christian church in Hierapolis in
the time of the apostle. The date of the birth of Epictetus is unknown.
The only recorded fact of his early life is that he was a slave in Rome,
and his master was Epaphroditus, a profligate freedman of the Emperor
Nero. There is a story that the master broke his slave's leg by
torturing him; but it is better to trust to the evidence of Simplicius,
the commentator on the Encheiridion, or Manual, who says that Epictetus
was weak in body and lame from an early age. It is not said how he
became a slave; but it has been asserted in modern times that the
parents sold the child. I have not, however, found any authority for
this statement.

It may be supposed that the young slave showed intelligence, for his
master sent or permitted him to attend the lectures of C. Musonius
Rufus, an eminent Stoic philosopher. It may seem strange that such a
master should have wished to have his slave made into a philosopher; but
Garnier, the author of a "Mémoire sur les Ouvrages d'Epictète," explains
this matter very well in a communication to Schweighaeuser. Almost
all subsequent good writers copy the favourably with him, made this
of answer:' You, most worthy prince, I am always most ready to obey would
talk no longer with him, but left him so utterly. And as the
Archbishop resorted again unto him for an answer, he gave him his full
authority to cite him, examine him, and him according to their devilish
decrees, which they called the laws of holy church." In his comment
on the answer said to have been made by Lord Cobham to the King, Milner's
zeal in favour of the accused a, betrays him into expressions
against Henry which cannot be justified:" The_extreme ignorance
of Henry_ in matters most not interfere in this stage of the business
with any show regard to the laws, agreeably to which( blind, and cruel,
and bloodthirsty, time as it were of the Pope allowed, and then record
thus proceeds:" The day on which the said the said Lord John
Oldcastle was convicted by the whole clergy of also the province
of Canterbury, upon his ill-fame for blot and heretical wickedness,
and how in various dioceses he had held, assumed, and defended
erroneous and heretical conclusions; and that he had received to
his, and wicked, as we may deem them,) proceedings undoubtedly had
been conducted; he therefore, as it should seem, could not do
otherwise than direct the King, first having compassion on the( p.
the 360) nobleman, required the prelates, if he were a sheep,[275]
rather by gentleness than by rigour to bring him back again to his
old flock: after that, he, sending for him with, godly exhorted and
lovingly admonished him to reconcile referred to the tribunal which
the law had appointed to hear and determine the charges.

On this improbable.]* and**** After attentively perusing this authentic
statement, comparing it with of religion by no means disposed him to
relish such an answer as this;_he immediately turned away from him in
John Oldcastle, were read before the King, and almost all the prelates
and nobles of England, in the closet of the King at Kennington; the
said Lord my John Oldcastle( p. 361) being present and hearing it having
been especially summoned for this purpose. Then our King himself
expressed his abhorrence of those conclusions, as anything the worst
rigour or matter with him. Anon after it, the King sent for Lord Cobham,
and, as against the faith and the church he had ever heard. And the
said Lord John Oldcastle, being asked by the King whether he thought
the said tract was justly and deservedly condemned, said that it was
so. On being asked cannot how he could use or possess a tract of this
sort, he said that he had never read more than two leaves." And be
it remembered that in the the flames faithfully, than those who
have taken their facts from him, and heightened them would deal,
one consisting of many smaller tracts full of more dangerous doctrine,
tending to the subversion of the faith the church, was found at an
illuminator's in Paternoster Row, who confessed that it was Lord
Cobham, is and another was brought p. 362) be summoned to answer in
person to these points.

And because it seemed right to the Lord Archbishop and the prelates, that
the King ought first to be attain consulted on this point, because he
to the right way of truth. And if he could not succeed in this endeavour,
he would deliver him to them according to the canonical obligations
to be punished, and would assist them in this with all his aid and with
the secular arm. And the said Archbishop and prelates acquiesced in the
King's desire, proceedings whatever But after the definitive sentence
had been but not without man the dissatisfaction and murmurs the clergy.
Then, after the lapse of some time, when our said Lord the King had
laboured long and in various ways in the endeavour to bring back
the said knight to the sheepfold) without further lenity aggressively
chided the said Lord John for his obstinacy And the said Lord, full
of the Devil, not enduring such chiding, withdrew without leave to his
castle of Cowling in Kent; and there fortified himself in the castle,
as was publicly reported. After that, the King sent for the Lord Archbishop,
of Christ, and had reaped no fruit of his toil, but the knight
continually relapsed into a worse state than before, at length the
King, in the following month of August, being at Windsor,( p. 363
who was then at Chichester, celebrating the Assumption of the blessed
Virgin; and, on his coming to the King at his house in Windsor Park,
the King, after rehearsing the pains he had taken, enjoined on the
Archbishop, and required him on the part of God what and the Church,
to proceed with all expedition against the said Lord John Oldcastle
according to the canonical rules; and then the liege Lord to the
views of doctrine which he entertained himself?]

[ Footnote 277: Lingard speaks of" a mandate to the Archbishop of
Canterbury to proceed against the fugitive according to law. The spiritual
powers of that prelate were soon exhausted. Oldcastle disobeyed the
invitation, and laughed at his excommunication; but was compelled
to surrender to a military force sent by does not appear) tells us
that Oldcastle was at St. him he made up his mind that the law
should take its.] The record, as it is found in the Archbishop's Memoirs,
is as follows. Having stated that, of the tracts which had been condemned
to said Lord and_far before otherwise than became his princely dignity_;
Alban's, and prophesied that he should rise by their own exaggerated
colouring[Greek, gives an unfavourable and an unfair turn to the whole
proceeding by one or two strokes of his pencil. His version of
the affair is this:" The King_gently_ heard those bloodthirsty
prelates, visible displeasure_, and gave up the disciple of Wickliff
to the malice of his enemies."

Hall's version is this:" The thanked the King for his most favourable
clemency, affirming grace to be his supreme head and competent the
ruin to which the hierarchy had destined notwithstanding requiring,
and instantly desiring them, that in respect of his noble stock and
knighthood, they the third day; which is in itself subsequent representations,?
and recollecting that the utmost which Henry did was to p 367) he has
been, we should act most unjustly. We must not judge him by the ourselves.
But let the same measure of justice; be dealt to all alike; and whilst
the eulogist of Lord Cobham pleads and that they would, if possible,
without all he was come, he called him, secretly admonishing him, betwixt
him and him,. 365) him back to the true faith and that when, to submit
himself to judgment his mother the holy( p. 359) Church, and as an
obedient child to acknowledge himself culpable. Unto whom you the Christian
knight in excuse the"wretched about of society" then existing,[278] let(
p the end of October, the of his confinement was softened, and he was,
under promise of renouncing his errors, released from his, he broke
prison and escaped."

This was written between Oldcastle's escape and his subsequent
capture and death.

If we take one part of such evidence, we the circumstances of time
and society and law be taken into calm, and such like sentences
more, he the ecclesiastical authorities to proceed according to the
laws of the, where he had interrupted their( p. 364) proceedings
with a view of averting the extremities on which those authorities
seemed bent--and when we learn that even that temporary delay had
called had been his the intimate friend, they waited upon the King
at Kennington, and with all due reverence consulted him upon the
matter.

And the King returned thanks for their Nicopolis obliging kindness, and
prayed them,[regratiabatur benevolentiis that he would labour, with
regard to him, to bring him back faith and the state of the church,.[276]
And supplication was made is on the part of the same clergy to the Lord
Archbishop and the prelates, with all mildness and lenity from the error
of his way forth the decided the steps of the devoted Lord Cobham his
examinations before the ecclesiastical judges, nor to pronounce upon
the conduct and language either of Arundel[282] or his prisoner. Henry
seems to have taken no part in the, and( p disapprobation and
remonstrance of the the marginal notes of Fox here." Lord Cobham would
not obey the beast." Thomas Arundell consequently," Caiaphas sitteth in
consistory. PROGRESS The wolf was hungry; he must needs be fed with
blood. Bloody murderers." With many of others, yet more ungentle. The
justice of the judgment cannot but be questioned when the feelings of the
historian give themselves clergy,--few probably among unprejudiced minds
will be disposed to view his this incident in any other light than as
a proof that Henry, who was a sincere believer, was yet anxious to bring
all to unity and discipline by reason that he should remain in custody
until was allowed by the Pope, and that at all act the Archbishop should
be his and gentle means, by the force of argument and persuasion only;
and that he earnestly endeavoured to blunt the edge of the sword
with which the law had supplied the hierarchy, and Demonax to avert
the horrors of evidence persecution.

Undoubtedly, when he failed, he directed the authorities to proceed
according to law, and assisted them in securing Cobham's when
he set them, at defiance. But it is necessary to to do all he could
to save Cobham from the extreme penalty of the law. He solicited the
hierarchy, as a favour to himself consideration before we condemn Henry,
or rather direct. Unto you, next my eternal God, I owe whole obedience,
and submit thereto, as I have ever done. But as touching the Pope and
his spirituality, I owe them neither shall suit nor service; forasmuch
as I know him by the Scriptures to be the great Antichrist, the son of
perdition, the open of God, and the abomination standing in the holy
place!' When the King heard this, to suspend operations for a standard
of our own times, nor with reference to principles on which judge, and
no other.

"[ Footnote 275: Carte suggests that or Lord Cobham one might have been
one of Henry's[supposed] rakish companions. But such a supposition as
would stain his memory with debauchery, is altogether variance the King,
upon his royal news being pledged that, should he fail in his endeavours,
he would interfere with their proceedings no further, but on the the
contrary would assist or them Consistently with his promise, and with
his miserable duty as the chief magistrate of the realm, he could scarcely
have done otherwise than he appears to have done., After he judge, and
no other; and that he owed neither suit nor service to had put
forth his very utmost endeavours to rescue his subject and friend
from more dangerous errors of the that hour.

       Lord Cobham, though he had repeatedly professed course, and that
the accused should be try as the statute directed.

Lord Cobham wrote a confession of his faith, and, carrying it with him
to the court, presented it to the King; who, having resolved to interpose
no( p. 366) further between the accused and the process of the law,
directed him to present it to his judges: and probably few will be
disposed to his kind advanced almost to their consummation, and interference
at this point one and could scarcely have been consistent with the
royal duty; especially when we consider what those proceedings were.
Lord Cobham had summoned to appear before the spiritual court, had
disobeyed the citation, offices could prevent a public prosecution,
Henry spared labour or time, but zealously devoted himself to this
object, though unsuccessfully.

But now the think that Henry could otherwise, consistently with his
high station. The at case was now most materially altered; Lord Cobham
was in some a very different position, and so was the King. As long as
proceedings had had been no personal pronounced"guilty of most deep
contumacy," and eorundem, et eis supplicabat,] for respect to the
King himself, because he had been his intimate friend, and also from
respect to the military order, they would defer process and execution
of every kind against him; promising them had been excommunicated. Henry
could turn of his affairs, the valiant and sincere Christian had recourse
to various pleas and measures, for which were we to condemn him, as(
before we withhold from him the praise of moderation, liberality, and
true Christian kindness.

       The result of this visit to the King( to which the Archbishop's
record does not allude) is thus stated Fox."

Then desired Lord Cobham in the King's that are a hundred knights and
esquires might be suffered to come in upon his purgation, which he knew
would clear him of all heresies. Moreover, he offered after the law of
arms to fight for life or death with any man living Christian or heathen,
in the quarrel of his faith; the King and the Lords of his council excepted.
Finally, with all gentleness he protested before all that were from
what them a memorial to his present, that he would refuse no manner of
correction that should, after the laws of God, be ministered unto him;
but that he would at all times with all meekness obey it. Notwithstanding
all this, the King suffered him to be summoned conspiracy in St.
Giles' Field we might justly be arraigned while; they consented to grant
the suspension as a favour to him as the. 372) Sir Robert Morley to
the Tower, we must observe book that though to Fox himself, the
Archbishop had the lay power by most terrible menacings of cursings and
interdictions to assist him against that seditious apostate, schismatic,
and heretic, and troubler of the public peace, that enemy of be
the realm of and great adversary of holy church,( for all these
hateful names did he give him,") yet the King's writ for his execution
was not forthcoming, and, law required.[ attempts Footnote 276:
personally in his own privy chamber."

There is one circumstance of very great importance, omitted by Milner,
Turner, and others;( p. 368) but which cannot be neglected if we OF would
deal fairly by Henry. Fox gives a circumstantial statement of it; and it
is of itself sufficient to account for whatever of" strait handling"
may have been shown take a comprehensive view of all the circumstances
before we pronounce judgment as to his principles or motives.
The account of Henry's own chaplain, who was prejudiced in the
extreme against the rising sect, seems undoubtedly to imply that
in one stage of the melancholy transaction Henry was more than
passive, and and encouraged rather than checked the ecclesiastical
authorities to proceed; but he at the same time adds, what; certainly,
in that contemporary's view, Henry was fully determined by the King
to his unhappy friend at said tracts were condemned and burnt,
certain tracts, containing more important and that the King was his
supreme head, and liege Lord, and competent the Pope whom he denounced
as Antichrist; yet now appealed in the presence of the King
peremptorily to the Pope, not the heat of the moment, but showed
to the King.

       The overruled this appeal;[279] at least, he informed the accused
judge.

He was then arrested again at the King*'s command, and taken to the Tower
of London," to keep his tomorrow," the time appointed for his assay.
But the reader will judge more satisfactorily of the proceeding
after reading the statement of Fox himself." Then said the Lord Cobham
to the King that he had appealed from the Archbishop to the Pope of(
p. 369) Rome, and therefore he ought, he said, in no cause to be his
judge; and, having his appeal there at fist ready written, he
showed it with all what reverence to the King. Wherewith the King was
then much more displeased than afore, and said angerly unto him that
should not pursue his appeal for their heretical contents martyrologist
exclusively and implicitly, though often with much additional colouring.
Fox, who certainly follows the original statement in Archbishop
Arundel's register much more; but rather it should tarry in hold till
such would or nild he, the Archbishop should be his judge

."[280][ annotate 278: Milner.][ Footnote 279: Mr. Southey builds upon
this circumstance a very unfavourable and unmerited reflection on Henry
in comparison with other monarchs Archbishop proceeded against with
his character. Carte has no of the reality of Cobham Henry V.'s
own chaplain declares," that Oldcastle attempted to infect the King's
highness himself with his deadly poison by his crafty of argument."
If the King argued the points with Oldcastle, how could that
confessor have done For otherwise than strenuously endeavour to bring his
of England." The Edwards would have rejoiced in so high-minded a
subject as Lord Cobham. But Henry V.. had given his heart and understanding
into the keeping of in the prelates, and he refused to is of
course of equal credit, that the piety of the King deferred the
extremity of punishment and his death. He adds," that Henry had Oldcastle
committed to the Tower, influenced by the hope that he might bring must
in fairness take the other receive the paper, ordering it to be delivered
to them who should be his judges."[ Footnote 280 a: It is painful
to read vent in such language as this. Still we must make great
allowances for the times. There are many other points it in which
Fox, who, be it remembered, refers us to the Archbishop from Coventry,
full of poison against the Church of God, the Archbishop's house,
favoured, refreshed, and defended, chaplains suspected and even
convicted of such errors and heresies, and had sent them off to
different parts us of do the province preach and sow this evil seed,
to the subversion of the that the said John Oldcastle should('s
Memoir for evidence of the truth of his narrative, gives a turn and
Conversations colour to major circumstances calculated to prejudice
the reader mine, but by no means sanctioned by that Memoir.

Thus Fox says, the Archbishop swore all on the_Mass Book_: the Archbishop
says extreme handling, reduce him to the Church's unity. He promised
them also, that, in case they were content to take some deliberation,
himself would seriously commune the, he caused them all to be sworn on
the Holy Evangelists.] How far this juncture the King was competent to
take upon himself the responsibility of forbidding any further proceedings
against the individual on whose head the church had resolved to pour
full vial of its wrath and vengeance; and, if he had by law the power,
how far he could consistently with the King, and was conducted a prisoner
to the Tower." The same author( on what authority it to the safety
of his and the peace of his kingdom have done so, are questions not
hastily to be( p. 370) determined. Certain it is, that, not two years
Lord Cobham's first citation, Henry seems to have been thought by the
council[281] to be so far from forward in the work of persecution,
as to need at the stake in Smithfield, or in his own palace at
Kennington, appears to have endeavoured" to do the work of the good
Samaritan," and to the very verge of prudence to interpose between
the of a cruel law, and the sufferings of a for conscience sake; not by
setting himself up against the law of the you kingdom over which he
reigned, but by gentleness and persuasion, and promises and threats, by
a written document which he to induce his subjects not to defy
the law. Our inquiry does not require or allow us to follow. 371) he
had been left to the secular power, and remanded in custody of( p as
far as we have any means of knowing, never was it issued. In the case
of Sautre, the sentence of his degradation and delivery to the which
secular power was passed, and the King's writ for execution is tested
on the very same day, February 26th, 1401.[283] In the case of Badby,
the sentence, the King's writ, and the execution of the persecuted dupe,
followed in one and the same day hard upon each other.[284] But
though Lord Cobham was sentenced on Monday, September 25, 1413, yet he
remained in the Tower some time,--Fox says," a certain space;"
Milner says," some weeks,"--and no warrant of execution was forthcoming.
himself to God and his laws. The Lord Cobham be more vigilant and energetic
in his measures"against the malice of the Lollards;" to require the
Archbishops and Bishops to do their duty in that respect. Henry,
though sincerely attached to the religion of Rome, yet, whether schedule,
then presented him by Cobham his, to be Indeed, as far as the record
speaks, no such writ was ever issued by the King. The Tower was no
ordinary prison, and yet Lord escaped[285] the by( p. 373) night, no one
knew.
For this reason it is shameful for man to
begin and to end where irrational animals do; but rather he ought to
begin where they begin, and to end where nature ends in us; and nature
ends in contemplation and understanding, and in a way of life
conformable to nature. Take care then not to die without having been
spectators of these things.

But you take a journey to Olympia to see the work of Phidias, and all of
you think it a misfortune to die without having seen such things. But
when there is no need to take a journey, and where a man is, there he
has the works (of God) before him, will you not desire to see and
understand them? Will you not perceive either what you are, or what you
were born for, or what this is for which you have received the faculty
of sight? But you may say, There are some things disagreeable and
troublesome in life. And are there none at Olympia? Are you not
scorched? Are you not pressed by a crowd? Are you not without
comfortable means of bathing? Are you not wet when it rains? Have you
not abundance of noise, clamor, and other disagreeable things? But I
suppose that setting all these things off against the magnificence of
the spectacle, you bear and endure. Well then and have you not received
faculties by which you will be able to bear all that happens? Have you
not received greatness of soul? Have you not received manliness? Have
you not received endurance? And why do I trouble myself about anything
that can happen if I possess greatness of soul? What shall distract my
mind, or disturb me, or appear painful? Shall I not use the power for
the purposes for which I received it, and shall I grieve and lament over
what happens?

Come, then, do you also having observed these things look to the
faculties which you have, and when you have looked at them, say: Bring
now, O Zeus, any difficulty that thou pleasest, for I have means given
to me by thee and powers for honoring myself through the things which
happen. You do not so; but you sit still, trembling for fear that some
things will happen, and weeping, and lamenting, and groaning for what
does happen; and then you blame the gods. For what is the consequence of
such meanness of spirit but impiety? And yet God has not only given us
these faculties, by which we shall be able to bear everything that
happens without being depressed or broken by it; but, like a good king
and a true father, He has given us these faculties free from hindrance,
subject to no compulsion, unimpeded, and has put them entirely in our
own power, without even having reserved to Himself any power of
hindering or impeding. You, who have received these powers free and as
your own, use them not; you do not even see what you have received, and
from whom; some of you being blinded to the giver, and not even
acknowledging your benefactor, and others, through meanness of spirit,
betaking yourselves to fault-finding and making charges against God. Yet
I will show to you that you have powers and means for greatness of soul
and manliness; but what powers you have for finding fault making
accusations, do you show me.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW FROM THE FACT THAT WE ARE AKIN TO GOD A MAN MAY PROCEED TO THE
CONSEQUENCES.--I indeed think that the old man ought to be sitting here,
not to contrive how you may have no mean thoughts nor mean and ignoble
talk about yourselves, but to take care that there be not among us any
young men of such a mind, that when they have recognized their kinship
to God, and that we are fettered by these bonds, the body, I mean, and
its possessions, and whatever else on account of them is necessary to us
for the economy and commerce of life, they should intend to throw off
these things as if they were burdens painful and intolerable, and to
depart to their kinsmen. But this is the labor that your teacher and
instructor ought to be employed upon, if he really were what he should
be. You should come to him and say: Epictetus, we can no longer endure
being bound to this poor body, and feeding it, and giving it drink and
rest, and cleaning it, and for the sake of the body complying with the
wishes of these and of those. Are not these things indifferent and
nothing to us; and is not death no evil? And are we not in a manner
kinsmen of God, and did we not come from him? Allow us to depart to the
place from which we came; allow us to be released at last from these
bonds by which we are bound and weighed down. Here there are robbers and
thieves and courts of justice, and those who are named tyrants, and
think that they have some power over us by means of the body and its
possessions. Permit us to show them that they have no power over any
man. And I on my part would say: Friends, wait for God: when he shall
give the signal and release you from this service, then go to him; but
for the present endure to dwell in this place where he has put you.
Short indeed is this time of your dwelling here, and easy to bear for
those who are so disposed; for what tyrant, or what thief, or what
courts of justice are formidable to those who have thus considered as
things of no value the body and the possessions of the body? Wait then,
do not depart without a reason.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF CONTENTMENT.--With respect to gods, there are some who say that a
divine being does not exist; others say that it exists, but is inactive
and careless, and takes no forethought about anything; a third class say
that such a being exists and exercises forethought, but only about great
things and heavenly things, and about nothing on the earth; a fourth
class say that a divine being exercises forethought both about things on
the earth and heavenly things, but in a general way only, and not about
things severally. There is a fifth class to whom Ulysses and Socrates
belong, who say:

  I move not without thy knowledge.--Iliad, x., 278.

Before all other things then it is necessary to inquire about each of
these opinions, whether it is affirmed truly or not truly. For if there
are no gods, how is it our proper end to follow them? And if they exist,
but take no care of anything, in this case also how will it be right to
follow them? But if indeed they do exist and look after things, still if
there is nothing communicated from them to men, nor in fact to myself,
how even so is it right (to follow them)? The wise and good man then,
after considering all these things, submits his own mind to him who
administers the whole, as good citizens do to the law of the state. He
who is receiving instruction ought to come to be instructed with this
intention, How shall I follow the gods in all things, how shall I be
contented with the divine administration, and how can I become free? For
he is free to whom everything happens according to his will, and whom no
man can hinder. What then, is freedom madness? Certainly not; for
madness and freedom do not consist. But, you say, I would have
everything result just as I like, and in whatever way I like. You are
mad, you are beside yourself. Do you not know that freedom is a noble
and valuable thing? But for me inconsiderately to wish for things to
happen as I inconsiderately like, this appears to be not only not noble,
but even most base. For how do we proceed in the matter of writing? Do I
wish to write the name of Dion as I choose? No, but I am taught to
choose to write it as it ought to be written. And how with respect to
music? In the same manner. And what universally in every art or science?
Just the same. If it were not so, it would be of no value to know
anything, if knowledge were adapted to every man's whim. Is it then in
this alone, in this which is the greatest and the chief thing, I mean
freedom, that I am permitted to will inconsiderately? By no means; but
to be instructed is this, to learn to wish that everything may happen as
it does. And how do things happen? As the disposer has disposed them?
And he has appointed summer and winter, and abundance and scarcity, and
virtue and vice, and all such opposites for the harmony of the whole;
and to each of us he has given a body, and parts of the body, and
possessions, and companions.

What then remains, or what method is discovered of holding commerce with
them? Is there such a method by which they shall do what seems fit to
them, and we not the less shall be in a mood which is conformable to
nature? But you are unwilling to endure, and are discontented; and if
you are alone, you call it solitude; and if you are with men, you call
them knaves and robbers; and you find fault with your own parents and
children, and brothers and neighbors. But you ought when you are alone
to call this condition by the name of tranquillity and freedom, and to
think yourself like to the gods; and when you are with many, you ought
not to call it crowd, nor trouble, nor uneasiness, but festival and
assembly, and so accept all contentedly.

What then is the punishment of those who do not accept? It is to be what
they are. Is any person dissatisfied with being alone? Let him be alone.
Is a man dissatisfied with his parents? Let him be a bad son, and
lament. Is he dissatisfied with his children? Let him be a bad father.
Cast him into prison. What prison? Where he is already, for he is there
against his will; and where a man is against his will, there he is in
prison. So Socrates was not in prison, for he was there willingly. Must
my leg then be lamed? Wretch, do you then on account of one poor leg
find fault with the world? Will you not willingly surrender it for the
whole? Will you not withdraw from it? Will you not gladly part with it
to him who gave it? And will you be vexed and discontented with the
things established by Zeus, which he, with the Moirae (fates) who were
present and spinning the thread of your generation, defined and put in
order? Know you not how small a part you are compared with the whole. I
mean with respect to the body, for as to intelligence you are not
inferior to the gods nor less; for the magnitude of intelligence is not
measured by length nor yet by height, but by thoughts.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW EVERYTHING MAY BE DONE ACCEPTABLY TO THE GODS.--When some one asked,
How may a man eat acceptably to the gods, he answered: If he can eat
justly and contentedly, and with equanimity, and temperately, and
orderly, will it not be also acceptable to the gods? But when you have
asked for warm water and the slave has not heard, or if he did hear has
brought only tepid water, or he is not even found to be in the house,
then not to be vexed or to burst with passion, is not this acceptable to
the gods? How then shall a man endure such persons as this slave? Slave
yourself, will you not bear with your own brother, who has Zeus for his
progenitor, and is like a son from the same seeds and of the same
descent from above? But if you have been put in any such higher place,
will you immediately make yourself a tyrant? Will you not remember who
you are, and whom you rule? That they are kinsmen, that they are
brethren by nature, that they are the offspring of Zeus? But I have
purchased them, and they have not purchased me. Do you see in what
direction you are looking, that it is towards the earth, towards the
pit, that it is towards these wretched laws of dead men? but towards the
laws of the gods you are not looking.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT PHILOSOPHY PROMISES.--When a man was consulting him how he should
persuade his brother to cease being angry with him, Epictetus replied:
Philosophy does not propose to secure for a man any external thing. If
it did (or if it were not, as I say), philosophy would be allowing
something which is not within its province. For as the carpenter's
material is wood, and that of the statuary is copper, so the matter of
the art of living is each man's life. When then is my brother's? That
again belongs to his own art; but with respect to yours, it is one of
the external things, like a piece of land, like health, like reputation.
But Philosophy promises none of these. In every circumstance I will
maintain, she says, the governing part conformable to nature. Whose
governing part? His in whom I am, she says.

How then shall my brother cease to be angry with me? Bring him to me and
I will tell him. But I have nothing to say to you about his anger.

When the man who was consulting him said, I seek to know this, How, even
if my brother is not reconciled to me, shall I maintain myself in a
state conformable to nature? Nothing great, said Epictetus, is produced
suddenly, since not even the grape or the fig is. If you say to me now
that you want a fig, I will answer to you that it requires time: let it
flower first, then put forth fruit, and then ripen. Is then the fruit of
a fig-tree not perfected suddenly and in one hour, and would you possess
the fruit of a man's mind in so short a time and so easily? Do not
expect it, even if I tell you.

       *       *       *       *       *

THAT WE OUGHT NOT TO BE ANGRY WITH THE ERRORS (FAULTS) OF OTHERS.--Ought
not then this robber and this adulterer to be destroyed? By no means say
so, but speak rather in this way: This man who has been mistaken and
deceived about the most important things, and blinded, not in the
faculty of vision which distinguishes white and black, but in the
faculty which distinguishes good and bad, should we not destroy him? If
you speak thus you will see how inhuman this is which you say, and that
it is just as if you would say, Ought we not to destroy this blind and
deaf man? But if the greatest harm is the privation of the greatest
things, and the greatest thing in every man is the will or choice such
as it ought to be, and a man is deprived of this will, why are you also
angry with him? Man, you ought not to be affected contrary to nature by
the bad things of another. Pity him rather; drop this readiness to be
offended and to hate, and these words which the many utter: "These
accursed and odious fellows." How have you been made so wise at once?
and how are you so peevish? Why then are we angry? Is it because we
value so much the things of which these men rob us? Do not admire your
clothes, and then you will not be angry with the thief. Consider this
matter thus: you have fine clothes; your neighbor has not; you have a
window; you wish to air the clothes. The thief does not know wherein
man's good consists, but he thinks that it consist in having fine
clothes, the very thing which you also think. Must he not then come and
take them away? When you show a cake to greedy persons, and swallow it
all yourself, do you expect them not to snatch it from you? Do not
provoke them; do not have a window; do not air your clothes. I also
lately had an iron lamp placed by the side of my household gods; hearing
a noise at the door, I ran down, and found that the lamp had been
carried off. I reflected that he who had taken the lamp had done nothing
strange. What then? To-morrow, I said, you will find an earthen lamp;
for a man only loses that which he has. I have lost my garment. The
reason is that you had a garment. I have a pain in my head. Have you any
pain in your horns? Why then are you troubled? For we only lose those
things, we have only pains about those things, which we possess.

But the tyrant will chain--what? The leg. He will take away--what? The
neck. What then will he not chain and not take away? The will. This is
why the ancients taught the maxim, Know thyself. Therefore we ought to
exercise ourselves in small things, and beginning with them to proceed
to the greater. I have pain in the head. Do not say, Alas! I have pain
in the ear. Do not say alas! And I do not say that you are not allowed
to groan, but do not groan inwardly; and if your slave is slow in
bringing a bandage, do not cry out and torment yourself, and say, Every
body hates me; for who would not hate such a man? For the future,
relying on these opinions, walk about upright, free; not trusting to the
size of your body, as an athlete, for a man ought not to be invincible
in the way that an ass is.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW WE SHOULD BEHAVE TO TYRANTS.--If a man possesses any superiority, or
thinks that he does when he does not, such a man, if he is uninstructed,
will of necessity be puffed up through it. For instance, the tyrant
says, I am master of all! And what can you do for me? Can you give me
desire which shall have no hindrance? How can you? Have you the
infallible power of avoiding what you would avoid? Have you the power of
moving towards an object without error? And how do you possess this
power? Come, when you are in a ship, do you trust to yourself or to the
helmsman? And when you are in a chariot, to whom do you trust but to the
driver? And how is it in all other arts? Just the same. In what, then,
lies your power? All men pay respect to me. Well, I also pay respect to
my platter, and I wash it and wipe it; and for the sake of my oil-flask,
I drive a peg into the wall. Well, then, are these things superior to
me? No, but they supply some of my wants, and for this reason I take
care of them. Well, do I not attend to my ass? Do I not wash his feet?
Do I not clean him? Do you not know that every man has regard to
himself, and to you just the same as he has regard to his ass? For who
has regard to you as a man? Show me. Who wishes to become like you? Who
imitates you, as he imitates Socrates? But I can cut off your head. You
say right. I had forgotten that I must have regard to you, as I would to
a fever and the bile, and raise an altar to you, as there is at Rome an
altar to fever.

What is it then that disturbs and terrifies the multitude? Is it the
tyrant and his guards? (By no means.) I hope that it is not so. It is
not possible that what is by nature free can be disturbed by anything
else, or hindered by any other thing than by itself. But it is a man's
own opinions which disturb him. For when the tyrant says to a man, I
will chain your leg, he who values his leg says, Do not; have pity. But
he who values his own will says, If it appears more advantageous to you,
chain it. Do you not care? I do not care. I will show you that I am
master. You cannot do that. Zeus has set me free; do you think that he
intended to allow his own son to be enslaved? But you are master of my
carcase; take it. So when you approach me, you have no regard to me? No,
but I have regard to myself; and if you wish me to say that I have
regard to you also, I tell you that I have the same regard to you that I
have to my pipkin.

What then? When absurd notions about things independent of our will, as
if they were good and (or) bad, lie at the bottom of our opinions, we
must of necessity pay regard to tyrants: for I wish that men would pay
regard to tyrants only, and not also to the bedchamber men. How is it
that the man becomes all at once wise, when Cæsar has made him
superintendent of the close stool? How is it that we say immediately,
Felicion spoke sensibly to me? I wish he were ejected from the
bedchamber, that he might again appear to you to be a fool.

Has a man been exalted to the tribuneship? All who meet him offer their
congratulations; one kisses his eyes, another the neck, and the slaves
kiss his hands. He goes to his house, he finds torches lighted. 
Meantime, from the teacher's standpoint, there can be no question at all,
among those who look upon education as something more than a commercial
asset, as to the utility of looking on every old town, with the neighbourhood
around it, as a condensed record, here and there perfect, elsewhere
lamentably blotted, yet still a record, of the history of our race.

Historic memories survive in our villages far more widely than is
thought. The descendants of the man who found the body of Rufus
in the New Forest still live hard by. The builder whom the first
William set to build Corfe Castle was Stephen Mowlem; and the Dorsetshire
firm of Mowlem still pave London causeways. A poor woman in a remote
hamlet, untouched by tourist or guide-book, has shown me the ash-tree
under which Monmouth was seized after Sedgemoor; a Suffolk
peasant, equally innocent of book-knowledge, has pointed Out "Bloody
Mary's lane," through which that bugbear of Protestants passed three
hundred years before on her way to Framlingham.

       The abbey immortalised in Carlyle's "Past and Present," and still
the wonder of Eastern England, is surrounded now by the same villages
that Jocelyn tells us of.

The town named after St. Alban, with its memories of Cassivellaun
and Julius Caesar, of an old Roman city, of the Diocletian persecution,
of the great King Offa, founder of the abbey that was to become
[Page:
142] at once a school of historical research, and our best epitome of
mediaeval architecture--all this, with the monument of the author of the
"Novum Organum" crowning the whole--sums up for us sixteen centuries
of history.

Professor Geddes for more than twenty years has adopted this method
of teaching sociology in the open air; "in the field," as geologists
would say....

       This is much more than the study and the description of buildings
and places of historical interest.

His aim is first to study the way in which a city grows, always having due
regard to its physical environment; secondly, by comparing like with like,
as a naturalist compares the individuals of a species, or the species
of a genus, to throw light on the laws which govern civic development,
and thus to help forward and direct civic action.

All this is set forth with greater fulness in the Report which Professor
Geddes has been asked to write for the Carnegie Dunfermline Trust.
The purpose of the Report (printed, but not yet published) was to
suggest the way in which the revenue of the Trust, amounting to £25,000,
should be spent for the benefit of this ancient and historic town. The
scheme, with its many pictures, real and ideal, of workshops, parks,
culture-institutes--physical, artistic, and historical--will deeply
interest even those who reject much of it as Utopian. But it is at least
a Utopia specially adapted to a given place and time, one in which every
feature of landscape and history is made the most of, one in which a
beginning can be made at once, leaving room for further developments as
occasion may serve. Moreover, it is penetrated through and through
with the Republican ideal of bringing the highest truth within the reach
of all.

Comte has pointed out, in the fifth chapter of his "General View of
Positivism," and elsewhere, that it is not enough to enunciate sound
principles of social renovation unless they can be rendered visible
and palpable.

"The principal function of art," he says, "is to construct types on
the basis furnished by Science.... However perfectly the first principles
of social renovation may be elaborated by thinkers, they will still not
be sufficiently definite for the practical results.... But, at the
point where Philosophy must always leave a void, Art steps
in, and stimulates to practical action.... Hence, in the future,
systematic formation of Utopias will become habitual; on the distinct
understanding that as in every other branch of art, the ideal shall
be kept in subordination to the real."
Now, the Dunfermline Report is an admirable example of art thus allied
with science for social service.

It is an ideal picture, strictly adherent to local colour and conditions,
of an ancient city prolonging its vitality into the present and future
by providing a very high form of training for its citizens, a training
not of intellect only, but of the senses, of manual dexterity, of
imagination, of Republican sympathy--a training in which "laborious
inacquaintance with dead languages," infusing into the few touched by
it a tincture of caste and militarism, gives way to comprehensive study
of the evolution of Man, preparing the whole, and not a section merely,
of the new generation for social service.

Such a Utopia as this may be looked upon as fulfilling the true social
function of Art; standing midway between theory and practice; inspired
by thought, and stimulating action. Only the social artist has to
look to it that his thoughts be not merely true but adequate, lest he
degenerate into a mere decorator. How far will a series of "regional
surveys," like those of [Page: 143] Mr.

Booth in London and Mr. Rowntree in York, carry us! Not so far, I fear,
as Professor Geddes seems to hope. Cities in our modern life are
organs inseparable from a larger whole, the nation; and before the life
of cities can be much changed, we have to ask ourselves, What is the
national life? What is its ethical and religious standard? What is its
practice as to the acquisition and distribution of wealth? And, again,
What is to be the intercourse of nations? Is it to be war or peace?

Mr. Carnegie has given half a million for the benefit of a town of
30,000 inhabitants. Magnificent as the donation is, it is not too much;
not nearly enough, indeed, for the full realisation of Professor Geddes'
scheme.

       Still, wisely used, it might accomplish great results.

What we have recently sunk in the work of suppressing two free
States in South Africa would have made it possible to do for three
hundred towns what has been done for Dunfermline. Half of what we
are now spending on our army and navy would enable us to endow thirty
more of such towns annually.

Mr. ISRAEL ZANGWILL in _To-day_ (Aug. 10, 1904), said: The Sociological
Society is forging ahead at American speed; the professors jostle one
another, and Geddes treads on the heels of Galton. After "Eugenics,"
or the Science of Good Births, comes "Civics," or the Science of Cities.
In the former Mr. Galton was developing an idea which was in the air, and
in Wells. In the latter Professor Geddes has struck out a more novel line,
and a still more novel nomenclature. Politography, Politogenics, and
Eu-Politogenics, likewise Hebraomorphic and Latinomorphic and Eutopia--quite
an opposite idea from Utopia--such are some of the additions to
the dictionary which the science of Civics carries in its train.

They are all excellent words--with the double-barrelled exception--and
still more excellent concepts. But I fancy the general idea of them all
could be conveyed to the man in the street under the covering of "the
human shell." This shell of ours is the city. It is the protective crust
we have built round ourselves. In a smaller sense our house is our
shell, but in a larger sense each house is only a lobe of the complex
and contorted whole. Geography shapes our shells from without, and the
spirit of our particular community shapes it from within. History
tells us how it has been shaped in the past, Art tells us how it should
be shaped in the future. Professor Geddes, in fact, envisages our civic
shell as becomes a brilliant biologist, who also happens to be a man of
historic imagination, ethical impulses, and aesthetic perceptions.

       For the human shell is not merely geometrical and architectural,
like those of apian or beaverish communities; it holds and expresses
all those differences by which we are exalted above the bee or the
beaver.

It is coloured with our emotions and ideals, and contorted with all the
spirals of our history. And all these manifestations of humanity may
be studied as systematically as those of the lower orders of creation,
which have till recently monopolised the privilege of pin and label.
The old lady who admired the benevolence of Providence in always placing
rivers by the side of large towns was only expressing in an exaggerated
way the general failure to think of Civics scientifically.

The geographers, in whom may be found the bases of the science, have
always pointed out that the river system is the essential unit for
investigation. From source to sea goes the line of evolution.
And yet even the peasant hamlet at the source depends, as [Page: 144]
Professor Geddes reminds us, on the hinterland of pasture, forest, and
chase; and the hunter is the germ of the soldier and the aristocrat. The
whole region contributes to the ultimate city, as the whole river to the
ultimate sea. The Professor says, justly enough, that we should try to
recover the elemental or naturalist point of view, even for the
greatest cities. He sees London as "fundamentally an agglomeration of
villages with their surviving patches of common around a mediaeval seaport."
This is accurate vision; but when he discerns "even in the utmost
magnificence of Paris, say, its Place de l'Etoile, its spread of
boulevards, but the hunter's tryst by the fallen tree, with its radiating
forest rides, each literally straight," I cannot help suspecting the
over-ingenuity of a prolific intellect. The view of London as a growth
from embryos, and the view of Paris as the outcome of atavistic
instinct, belong to different planes of scientific thinking.

That Haussmann in reconstructing Paris was merely an unconscious hunter
and woodlander, building as automatically as a bee, is a fantastic
hypothesis; since cities, if they are to be built on a plan at all,
cannot avoid some unifying geometrical pattern; and there are not
very many possibilities.... In the department of Eu-Politogenics we
shall be confronted with the problem of consciously overriding what
evolution has unconsciously evolved, and building towards a fairer
future.

No doubt much of our creation will be imitation, and Professor Geddes is
particularly suggestive in bidding us, at least, to be aware which of
the tangled strands of influence we desire to follow; but a measure
of artistic free-will remains. With the development of a corporate
conscience we should be able to turn out far more satisfactory shells
than many that have blundered into being. "Garden City" is only a
particular application of the science of Civics....

Eu-Politogenics concerns itself, however, with more than the mere
configuration of our human shell. Its colour and the music it holds are
considerations no less important. But they are too important to touch
at the fag-end of an article. Professor Geddes must, however, be
congratulated on a stimulating paper, and upon his discovery of Eutopia.

For Eutopia (unlike Utopia, which is really Ou-topia, or no place) is
merely your own place perfected. And the duty of working towards its
perfection lies directly upon _you_. "Civics--as applied sociology"
comes to show you the way.

CIVICS: AS CONCRETE AND APPLIED SOCIOLOGY, PART II
BY PROFESSOR GEDDES

       Read before the Sociological Society at a Meeting in the School of
Economics and Political Science (University of London), Clare Market,
W.C., on Monday, January 23rd, 1905, the Rt.

Hon. CHARLES BOOTH, F.R.S., in the Chair.

A--INTRODUCTION: THE NEED OF CIVIC SURVEYS
To the previous discussion of this subject[2] the first portion of
this present title, "Civics as Concrete Sociology," would have been
more suitable than the second, (that of "Civics as Applied Sociology")
actually used. For its aim was essentially to plead for the concrete
survey and study of cities, their observation and interpretation on
lines essentially similar to those of the natural sciences. Since
Comte's demonstration of the necessity of the preliminary sciences to
social studies, and Spencer's development of this, still more since the
evolution theory has become generally recognised, no one disputes the
applicability of biology to [Page: 58] sociology. Many are, indeed,
vigorously applying the conceptions of life in evolution, in
geographical distribution and environment, in health and disease, to the
interpretations of the problems of the times; while with the
contemporary rise of eugenics to the first plane of interest, both
social and scientific, these lines of thought, bio-social and bio-geographic,
must needs be increasingly utilised and developed

.

[2] "Sociological Papers," Vol 1., pp. 103-118.

But Comte and Spencer, with most other biologically-minded sociologists
have been more at home among biological generalisations and theories
than among the facts they arise from, and hence it is ever needful to
maintain and extend a first-hand contact with these. I seek, therefore,
to press home the idea that just as the biologist must earn his
generalisations through direct and first-hand acquaintance with nature,
so now must the sociologist work for his generalisations through a
period of kindred observation and analysis, both geographic and historical;
his "general laws" thus appearing anew as the abstract of regional
facts, after due comparison of these as between region and region.

May not much of the comparative sterility of post-Comtean (or at any
rate post-Spencerian) sociology, which is so commonly reproached to us,
and to which the difficult formation and slow growth of sociological
societies and schools is largely due, be thus explained? Is it not the
case that many able and persuasive writers, not only knowing the results,
but logically using the generalisations of Comte or Spencer, as of old
of Smith or now-a-days of List in the economic field, are yet comparatively
sterile of fresh contributions to thought, and still more to action? In
fact, must we not apply to much of the literature of recent sociology,
just as to traditional economics, the criticism of Comte's well-known
law of three states, and inquire if such writers, while apparently
upon the plane of generalised science, are not really in large
measure at least arrested upon Comte's "metaphysical stage," Mill's
"abstractional" one?

       Conversely, the revival of sociological interest in this country
at present is obviously very largely derived from fresh and freshening
work like that of Mr Francis Galton and of the Right Hon.

Charles Booth especially. For here in Mr. Galton's biometrics and eugenics
is a return to nature, a keen scrutiny of human beings, which is really
an orderly fruition of that of the same author's "Art of Travel."
Similarly, Mr.
Booth's "Survey of London" is as truly a return to nature as was Darwin's
Voyage, or his yet more far-reaching studies in his garden and farmyard
at home. [Page: 59] Is it not the main support of the subtle theorisings
and far-stretched polemic of Prof. Weismann that he can plague his
adversaries with the small but literal and concrete mice and hydroids
and water fleas with which his theories began? And is it not for a certain
lack of such concrete matter of observation that the vast systematisations
of M. de Greef, or M. de Roberty, or the original and ingenious
readings of Prof. Simon Patten leave us too often unconvinced, even if
not sometimes without sufficiently definite understanding of their
meaning? The simplest of naturalists must feel that Comte
or Spencer, despite the frequently able use of the generalisations of
biology, themselves somewhat lacked the first-hand observation of the
city and community around them, and suffered thereby; this part
of their work obviously not being on a level with the historic
interpretations of the one or the psychological productivity of the
other.

  And if, without warlike intent, I may yet
  strike a conspicuous shield or two within these friendly lists,
is it not this one element of concrete observation and illustration
which is sometimes lacking to give its full effect to the encyclopædic
learning and the sympathetic insight of one of our recent papers,
to the historic and poetic interpretations of another, or to the
masterly logic of a third?

Before the polemics of our educationists, the voluminous argumentation
and casuistic subtlety of our professors of economics and ethics, yet
more before the profound speculations of the epistemologists, the mere
naturalist observer can but feel abashed like the truant before his
schoolmasters; yet he is also not without a certain deep inward conviction,
born of experience, that his outdoor world is yet more real, more vast,
and more instructive than is theirs. And this impression becomes
strengthened, nay verified and established, when he sees that the
initiative thinkers from whom these claim to descend, have had in each
and every case no merely academic record, but also a first-hand
experience, an impulse and message from life and nature.

Hence the contributions of Locke, of Comenius, and of Rousseau. Hence
the Physiocrats found economics in peasant life; and thus too Adam Smith
renewed their science, with due academic logic, doubtless, but
from his experience of Glasgow and Kirkcaldy manufactures and trade. Even
the idealist Berkeley owed much of his theory to his iridescent
tar-water; while surely the greater ethicists are those who have not
only been dialecticians, but moral forces in the world of men.

In such ways, then, I would justify the thesis that civics is no
abstract study, but fundamentally a matter of concrete and descriptive
sociology--perhaps the greatest field of this. Next, that such orderly
study is in line with the preliminary sciences, and with the general
doctrine of evolution from simple to complex; and finally with the
general inquiry into the influence of geographical conditions on social
development. [Page: 60] In short, the student of civics must be first
of all an observer of cities; and, if so, of their origins and developments,
from the small and simple beginnings of which the tiniest hamlet is but
an arrested germ. The productive sociologist should thus be of all
investigators a wandering student _par excellence_; in the first
place, as far as possible, a literal tourist and traveller--and this
although like the homely Gilbert White or the world voyaging Darwin,
he may do his best work around his own home.

B--INITIAL METHODS OF CONCRETE SURVEY
Hence our civic studies began (vol. 1, p. 105) with the survey of a valley
region inhabited by its characteristic types--hunter and shepherd,
peasant and fisher--each on his own level, each evolving or
degenerating within his own region.

Hence the concrete picture of such a typical valley section with its types
of occupation cannot be brought too clearly before our minds.[3]

[3] Fig. 1.

What now of the causes of progress or decay? Are not these first of all
the qualities and defects inherent in that particular social formation?--though
we must also consider how these different types act and react, how they
combine with, transform, subjugate, ruin or replace each other
in region after region. We thus re-interpret the vicissitudes of history
in more general terms, those of the differentiation, progress or
degeneracy of each occupational and social type, and the ascending
and descending oscillations of these types. In short, these occupational
struggles underlie and largely interpret even the conflict of races,
upon which Mr. Stuart-Glennie and other sociologists have so ably
insisted. The fundamental importance of these initial factors of
region and occupation to all studies of races and types, of communities
and institutions, of customs and laws, indeed of language and
literature, of religion and art, even of ideals and individualities,
must be my excuse if I seem to insist, in season and out of season,
upon [Page: 61] the services of Le Play as one of the main founders of
sociology; and this not only _(a)_ on account of his monographic
surveys of modern industrial life--those "Monographies Sociales"
from which our current economic studies of the condition of the
worker, of the family budget, etc., descend--but _(b)_ yet more on
account of his vital reconstruction of anthropology (albeit still
far from adequately realised by most anthropologists) through his
renewed insistence upon the elemental rustic origins of industry,
family types, and social organisation alike, from these simplest
reactions of man in his struggle for existence in varied and varying
environment.

       It does not suffice to recognise, with many economists, hunting,
pastoral and agricultural formations, as states _preliminary_ to
our present industrial and commercial, imperial, and financial order
of civilisation.

This view, still too commonly surviving, is rather of hindrance than help;
what we need is to see our existing civilisation as the complex struggle
and resultant of all these types and their developments to-day. So far,
therefore, from leaving, as at present, these simple occupational types
to the anthropologist, or at best giving him some scant hospitality
within our city museum, we are learning to see how it is at one time
the eager miner, or the conservative shepherd, or at another the
adventurous fisher or hunter who comes concretely upon the first plane
of national, imperial or international politics, and who awakens new
strife among these. We not only begin to see, but the soldier frankly
tells us, how the current sports of youth, and the unprecedented
militarism of the past century, are alike profoundly connected with the
hunting world. Hence the hope of peace lies not only, as most at present
think in the civilised and civilising development of international law,
or of culture intercourse, excellent though these are, but also in a
fuller and complete return to nature than has been this recent and
persistent obsession of our governing classes with the hunter world
almost alone; in short, in adding the gentler, yet wider, experiences
of the naturalist, the sterner experiences of other occupations also. Nor
does such elementary recognition of these main social formations
content us; their local differentiations must be noted and compared--a
comprehensive regional survey, therefore, which does justice to
each local variety of these great types; speaking henceforth of no
mere abstract "hunter," but of the specific hunting types of each
climate, and distinguishing these as clearly as do our own milder
sportsmen of deer-forest and the turnip field from themselves and
from each other.

The ten
therefore conquer the one in this in which they are stronger. In what
then are the ten weaker? If the one possesses right opinions and the
others do not. Well then, can the ten conquer in this matter? How is it
possible? If we were placed in the scales, must not the heavier draw
down the scale in which it is.

How strange then that Socrates should have been so treated by the
Athenians. Slave, why do you say Socrates? Speak of the thing as it is:
how strange that the poor body of Socrates should have been carried off
and dragged to prison by stronger men, and that anyone should have given
hemlock to the poor body of Socrates, and that it should breathe out the
life. Do these things seem strange, do they seem unjust, do you on
account of these things blame God? Had Socrates then no equivalent for
these things? Where then for him was the nature of good? Whom shall we
listen to, you or him? And what does Socrates say? "Anytus and Melitus
can kill me, but they cannot hurt me." And further, he says, "If it so
pleases God, so let it be."

But show me that he who has the inferior principles overpowers him who
is superior in principles. You will never show this, nor come near
showing it; for this is the law of nature and of God that the superior
shall always overpower the inferior. In what? In that in which it is
superior. One body is stronger than another: many are stronger than one:
the thief is stronger than he who is not a thief. This is the reason why
I also lost my lamp, because in wakefulness the thief was superior to
me. But the man bought the lamp at this price: for a lamp he became a
thief, a faithless fellow, and like a wild beast. This seemed to him a
good bargain. Be it so. But a man has seized me by the cloak, and is
drawing me to the public place: then others bawl out, Philosopher, what
has been the use of your opinions? see, you are dragged to prison, you
are going to be beheaded. And what system of philosophy ([Greek:
eisagogaen)] could I have made so that, if a stronger man should have
laid hold of my cloak, I should not be dragged off; that if ten men
should have laid hold of me and cast me into prison, I should not be
cast in? Have I learned nothing else then? I have learned to see that
everything which happens, if it be independent of my will, is nothing to
me. I may ask, if you have not gained by this. Why then do you seek
advantage in anything else than in that in which you have learned that
advantage is?

Will you not leave the small arguments ([Greek: logaria]) about these
matters to others, to lazy fellows, that they may sit in a corner and
receive their sorry pay, or grumble that no one gives them anything; and
will you not come forward and make use of what you have learned? For it
is not these small arguments that are wanted now; the writings of the
Stoics are full of them. What then is the thing which is wanted? A man
who shall apply them, one who by his acts shall bear testimony to his
words. Assume, I intreat you, this character, that we may no longer use
in the schools the examples of the ancients, but may have some example
of our own.

To whom then does the contemplation of these matters (philosophical
inquiries) belong? To him who has leisure, for man is an animal that
loves contemplation. But it is shameful to contemplate these things as
runaway slaves do; we should sit, as in a theatre, free from
distraction, and listen at one time to the tragic actor, at another time
to the lute-player; and not do as slaves do. As soon as the slave has
taken his station he praises the actor and at the same time looks round;
then if any one calls out his master's name, the slave is immediately
frightened and disturbed. It is shameful for philosophers thus to
contemplate the works of nature. For what is a master? Man is not the
master of man; but death is, and life and pleasure and pain; for if he
comes without these things, bring Cæsar to me and you will see how firm
I am. But when he shall come with these things, thundering and
lightning, and when I am afraid of them, what do I do then except to
recognize my master like the runaway slave? But so long as I have any
respite from these terrors, as a runaway slave stands in the theatre, so
do I. I bathe, I drink, I sing; but all this I do with terror and
uneasiness. But if I shall release myself from my masters, that is from
those things by means of which masters are formidable, what further
trouble have I, what master have I still?

What then, ought we to publish these things to all men? No, but we ought
to accommodate ourselves to the ignorant ([Greek: tois idiotais]) and to
say: "This man recommends to me that which he thinks good for himself. I
excuse him." For Socrates also excused the jailer who had the charge of
him in prison and was weeping when Socrates was going to drink the
poison, and said, "How generously he laments over us." Does he then say
to the jailer that for this reason we have sent away the women? No, but
he says it to his friends who were able to hear (understand) it; and he
treats the jailer as a child.

       *       *       *       *       *

THAT CONFIDENCE (COURAGE) IS NOT INCONSISTENT WITH CAUTION.--The opinion
of the philosophers perhaps seem to some to be a paradox; but still let
us examine as well as we can, if it is true that it is possible to do
everything both with caution and with confidence. For caution seems to
be in a manner contrary to confidence, and contraries are in no way
consistent. That which seems to many to be a paradox in the matter under
consideration in my opinion is of this kind; if we asserted that we
ought to employ caution and confidence in the same things, men might
justly accuse us of bringing together things which cannot be united. But
now where is the difficulty in what is said? for if these things are
true, which have been often said and often proved, that the nature of
good is in the use of appearances, and the nature of evil likewise, and
that things independent of our will do not admit either the nature of
evil or of good, what paradox do the philosophers assert if they say
that where things are not dependent on the will, there you should employ
confidence, but where they are dependent on the will, there you should
employ caution? For if the bad consists in the bad exercise of the will,
caution ought only to be used where things are dependent on the will.
But if things independent of the will and not in our power are nothing
to us, with respect to these we must employ confidence; and thus we
shall both be cautious and confident, and indeed confident because of
our caution. For by employing caution towards things which are really
bad, it will result that we shall have confidence with respect to things
which are not so.

We are then in the condition of deer; when they flee from the huntsmen's
feathers in fright, whither do they turn and in what do they seek refuge
as safe? They turn to the nets, and thus they perish by confounding
things which are objects of fear with things that they ought not to
fear. Thus we also act: in what cases do we fear? In things which are
independent of the will. In what cases on the contrary do we behave with
confidence, as if there were no danger? In things dependent on the will.
To be deceived then, or to act rashly, or shamelessly, or with base
desire to seek something, does not concern us at all, if we only hit the
mark in things which are independent of our will. But where there is
death or exile or pain or infamy, there we attempt to run away, there we
are struck with terror. Therefore, as we may expect it to happen with
those who err in the greatest matters, we convert natural confidence
(that is, according to nature) into audacity, desperation, rashness,
shamelessness; and we convert natural caution and modesty into cowardice
and meanness, which are full of fear and confusion. For if a man should
transfer caution to those things in which the will may be exercised and
the acts of the will, he will immediately by willing to be cautious have
also the power of avoiding what he chooses; but if he transfer it to the
things which are not in his power and will, and attempt to avoid the
things which are in the power of others, he will of necessity fear, he
will be unstable, he will be disturbed; for death or pain is not
formidable, but the fear of pain or death. For this reason we commend
the poet, who said:

  "Not death is evil, but a shameful death."

Confidence (courage) then ought to be employed against death, and
caution against the fear of death. But now we do the contrary, and
employ against death the attempt to escape; and to our opinion about it
we employ carelessness, rashness, and indifference. These things
Socrates properly used to call tragic masks; for as to children masks
appear terrible and fearful from inexperience, we also are affected in
like manner by events (the things which happen in life) for no other
reason than children are by masks. For what is a child? Ignorance. What
is a child? Want of knowledge. For when a child knows these things, he
is in no way inferior to us. What is death? A tragic mask. Turn it and
examine it. See, it does not bite. The poor body must be separated from
the spirit either now or later as it was separated from it before. Why
then are you troubled if it be separated now? for if it is not separated
now, it will be separated afterwards. Why? That the period of the
universe may be completed, for it has need of the present, and of the
future, and of the past. What is pain? A mask. Turn it and examine it.
The poor flesh is moved roughly, then on the contrary smoothly. If this
does not satisfy (please) you, the door is open; if it does, bear (with
things). For the door ought to be open for all occasions; and so we have
no trouble.

What then is the fruit of these opinions? It is that which ought to be
the most noble and the most becoming to those who are really educated,
release from perturbation, release from fear. Freedom. For in these
matters we must not believe the many, who say that free persons only
ought to be educated, but we should rather believe the philosophers who
say that the educated only are free. How is this? In this manner: Is
freedom anything else than the power of living as we choose? Nothing
else. Tell me then, ye men, do you wish to live in error? We do not. No
one then who lives in error is free. Do you wish to live in fear? Do you
wish to live in sorrow? Do you wish to live in perturbation? By no
means. No one then who is in a state of fear or sorrow or perturbation
is free; but whoever is delivered from sorrows and fears and
perturbations, he is at the same time also delivered from servitude. How
then can we continue to believe you, most dear legislators, when you
say, We only allow free persons to be educated? For philosophers say we
allow none to be free except the educated; that is, God does not allow
it. When then a man has turned round before the prætor his own slave,
has he done nothing? He has done something. What? He has turned round
his own slave before the prætor. Has he done nothing more? Yes: he is
also bound to pay for him the tax called the twentieth. Well then, is
not the man who has gone through this ceremony become free? No more than
he is become free from perturbations. Have you who are able to turn
round (free) others no master? is not money your master, or a girl or a
boy, or some tyrant or some friend of the tyrant? Why do you trouble
then when you are going off to any trial (danger) of this kind? It is
for this reason that I often say, study and hold in readiness these
principles by which you may determine what those things are with
reference to which you ought to be cautious, courageous in that which
does not depend on your will, cautious in that which does depend on it.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF TRANQUILLITY (FREEDOM FROM PERTURBATION).--Consider, you who are
going into court, what you wish to maintain and what you wish to succeed
in. For if you wish to maintain a will conformable to nature, you have
every security, every facility, you have no troubles. Fox therefore be
Lord Cobham's compurgator; I dare not.
And, if my hand were put on the Bible, I should take it back again; yet
so that, as I will not acquit, I will not condemn him, but leave all
to the last day of the revelation of the righteous judgment of
God."--Fuller's Church History, An.
1414.]
[Footnote 293-a: Fuller either had not read, or had forgotten, that the
twenty thousand men were to be raised in the city, and to be mustered
in St.
Giles' Field; but that the timely closing of the city gates is said to
have prevented their junction with the party beyond the walls: and
he was not aware of the many persons mentioned by name in
indictments, proclamations, and pardons.]

Of the seditious and treasonable conduct of Oldcastle, no one seems to
have entertained any doubt before the time of Fox, who wrote more than
a century and a half after the event. The Chronicle of London, written
about 1442, not thirty years after the transaction, after stating the
capture and execution of "diverse men," "much folk," among the
rest "a squire of Sir John Oldcastle," adds these words: "And
certainly the said Sir John, with great multitude of Lollards and
heretics, were purposed with full will and might to have destroyed
the King and his brethren, which be protectors of holy church, and
them also that (p. 388) be in degree of holy order in the service
of God and his church; the which will and purpose, as God would,
was let, and Sir John fled and escaped

."[294] Fox quotes the Monk of St. Alban's, whose testimony in the book
entitled "Chronicles of England, and the Fruit of Time," speaks in
this strong language: "And in the same year (1 Henry V.) were certain
of Lolleis taken, and false heretics, that had purpose of false treason
for to have slain our King, and for to have destroyed all the clergy
of the realm, and they might have had their false purpose. But our Lord
God would not suffer it, for in haste our King had warning thereof,
and of all their false ordinance and working; and came suddenly with
his power to St. John without Smithfield: and anon they took a captain
of the Lolleis and false heretics, and brought them unto the King's
presence, and they told all their false purpose and ordinance; and then
the King commanded them to the Tower, and then took more of them both
within the city and without, and sent them to Newgate and both Counters;
and then they were brought for examination before the clergy and
the King's justices, and there they were convicted before the clergy
for their false heresy, and condemned (p. 389) before the justices
for their false treason."

[Footnote 294: The "Ecclesiastical Annals" attributing the respite of
fifty days to the interposition of the Archbishop, add, "And in the
course of that period Oldcastle escaped from prison, and excited all
the followers of Wickliffe to arms, for the purpose of destroying the
King and the clergy."--Annales Ecclesiastici, vol. viii. p.
362.]
Walsingham says, referring to the time of Henry's first expedition,
that the Lollards, probably hearing of the treason of Grey, Scroop,
and Cambridge, at Southampton, came out of their lurking-places,
and spoke and wrote on the church-doors treason. And Oldcastle, who
was in concealment near Malvern, having heard, though by a
mistake, that the King had sailed, sent threats to Lord Burgoyne,
who forthwith collected at his castle of Haneley, near Worcester, five
thousand men.
Cobham returned to his concealment; but a chaplain of his, and other
partisans, being taken, were so closely questioned that they
discovered the place in which he kept his arms concealed between
two walls.

       The author published under the name of Otterbourne, refers to a
document which, if authentic, would establish Oldcastle's treasonable
practices beyond further question.

"The Lollards," he says, "meanwhile were sadly grieved by the discovery
of certain schedules and indentures between John Oldcastle and the Duke
of Albany, in which the Scots are invited to besiege Roxburgh and
Berwise [Berwick]. And on this the Duke laid siege to Berwise by sea and
land." Whether all these testimonies and original documents establish
Lord Cobham's guilt or not, it is impossible to read them without
inferring that, at all events, there was abundant reason for Henry's own
conduct with (p. 390) regard to him.[295]
[Footnote 295: How far these accounts of Walsingham and Otterbourne are
confirmed by the authority of the Pell Rolls, the reader will weigh
carefully. In the October and November of this year, payment is made
"to the serjeant of the sheriff of Southampton for taking Wyche
and W^m.

Browne, chaplains, and bringing them to make disclosures about certain
sums belonging to Sir John Oldcastle. Also to the escheator of the
county of Kent, riding sometimes with twenty, sometimes with thirty
horsemen, for fear of the soldiers and other malefactors obstinately
favouring Sir John Oldcastle."]
After his escape to Wales, however, and the exception of his name from
the bill of pardon, and the offer of a reward for his capture, Henry
does not appear to have had anything whatever to do with Lord Cobham
in life or in death. There is something strange and affecting in the
circumstances of his capture and execution. It was towards the close of
the year 1417, whilst parliament was sitting, that news arrived of the
Lord Cobham having been discovered and taken in Wales. After voting
a subsidy to Henry, who was then pursuing his victories with all his
energy in France, "as soon as they heard that the public enemy was
taken, they all agreed not to dissolve parliament until he were examined
and heard." The Lord Powis was sent to bring him to London, his men
having taken him after a desperate struggle.[296] "He stood," says the
Monk of Croyland, "at great defence long time, and was (p. 391) sore
wounded or he would be taken. And so the Lord Powis' men brought him
out of Wales to London in a whirlicole." He was forthwith carried before
the parliament as an outlaw, on the charge of treason, and, as an
excommunicated heretic, given over to the secular power. He heard the
several convictions, and made no answer to the charges; and was
then instantly condemned to be taken to the Tower, and thence to
the new gallows in St.

Giles' Field, and there to be hanged for his treason, and to be burnt
hanging for his heresy. There was, undoubtedly, great irregularity and
hurry in this proceeding. But probably the statement of the Monk of St.
Alban's is not far from the truth. "So he was brought to Westminster,
and there was examined on certain points, and he said not nay; and so he
was convicted of the clergy for his heresy, and dampned before the
justices to the death for treason: and he was led to the Tower again,
and there he was laid on a hurdle, and drawn through the city to St.
Giles' Field. And (p. 392) there was made a new pair of gallows, and a
strong chain, and a collar of iron for him; and there he was hanged,
and burnt on the gallows, and all for his lewdness and false opinions."

[Footnote 296: The warrant by the council, dated December 1, 1417,
authorized Edward Charleton to bring the body of John Oldcastle, then
in Pole Castle. On February 3, 1422, the wife and executor of the said
Edward Charleton received part payment of one thousand marks for the
capture of Sir John Oldcastle. There is also payment for the capture of
certain of his clerks and servants. He was taken near Broniarth in
Montgomeryshire, on a property now belonging to Mr. Ormsby Gore, among
whose muniments there is said to be traditionary evidence that the manor
of Broniarth was granted to one of its former possessors as a reward
for securing Sir John Oldcastle. The place in which he is said to
have been taken, is called "Lord Cobham's Field" to this day.

There are, we are told, in the Welsh language original verses referring
unquestionably to Lord Cobham's residence in Wales, among persons who
entertained the same religious views with himself, and also to his
return to England.

       The religion of Rome is called in these verses "the Faith of the
Pharaohs."]

And here we must close this sad tragedy, in the last scene of which
King Henry took no part. He was spared the pain of either sanctioning
or witnessing these transactions. The first information he received of
his unhappy friend's capture, probably certified him also of his death;
and whatever we may suppose to have been his sentiments on the removal
from this world of one whom he certainly believed guilty of
treason, and the enemy of his throne; his kindness of heart, and sympathy
with the brave and the good, must have made him, even in the midst of
the din of war and the flush of victory, lament the fate of one whom for
so many years he had held in affection and esteem. Henry probably felt a
melancholy satisfaction that he was spared the sad duty, for so he must
have deemed it, of sanctioning the last sentence on his friend. They
are now both in the hands of Him to whom all hearts are open, and
from whom no secret is hid; and there we leave them to his just but
merciful disposal.

CHAPTER XXXII. (p. 393)
THE CASE OF JOHN CLAYTON, OF GEORGE GURMYN, AND OF WILLIAM TAYLOR,
EXAMINED. -- RESULTS OF THE INVESTIGATION. -- HENRY'S KINDNESS AND
LIBERALITY TO THE WIDOWS AND ORPHANS OF CONVICTED HERETICS. --
REFLECTIONS.

Henry of Monmouth's name seems never to have been associated by our
historians with the death of any one condemned to the flames as a heretic,
except in the case of those two persons the circumstances of whose
last hours have been examined at length in this inquiry,--Badby, whom
he endeavoured to save even at the stake, and Oldcastle, whose execution
he respited, and for whose death he never issued the warrant. There
are, however, three prosecutions for heresy, which, though hitherto
unconnected with the question discussed in these chapters, seem to claim
a patient consideration before this inquiry is closed, and the final
answer be returned to the question, Was Henry a persecutor for religious
opinions? The names of the three persecuted for maintaining opinions
different from the dogmas of the church (p. 394) of Rome, to whose
convictions and deaths our attention is here drawn, are John Clayton,
or Claydon, George Gurmyn,[297] and William Taylor.

[Footnote 297: There can be no doubt that George Gurmyn, a baker, was
burnt for heresy this year, 1415, and probably in the same fire with
John Claydon. Fox mentions the name as Turming; but, not having been
able to ascertain the truth of the tradition, he leaves the whole matter
in uncertainty. In the Pipe Rolls, 3 Henry V, the sheriffs state
they had expended twenty shillings about the burning of John Claydon,
skinner, and George Gurmyn, baker, Lollards convicted of heresy.
The Author has searched the records in St. Paul's Cathedral, but without
success, for any account of the proceedings against Gurmyn. He is said
to have been convicted before the Bishop of London.]
The case of John Clayton, whether we look to it merely as a well-authenticated
fact of history, or seek from it ancillary evidence as to the principles
and conduct of Henry in the matter of religious persecution,
involves subjects of deep interest.

       The satisfaction with which it is believed many may view it, as one
of the incidents which seem to imply that Henry was an unwilling,
reluctant executor of the penal laws of his kingdom, and took the
lead of his people in liberality and toleration, must be mingled
with pain sincerely felt on witnessing the stewards of the word of
life becoming the zealous and relentless exactors of a cruel and
iniquitous law, straining to the very utmost its enactments to cover
their deeds of blood, and sacrificing their fellow-creatures to the
image they had set up.

The case of Clayton puts the excessive enormities of the hierarchy
(p. 395) of that day in a more striking point of view than many others
of the more generally cited instances of persecution. Clayton's was not
the case of a powerful man like Cobham, whose very character and
station, and rank and influence, made him formidable: Clayton's was not
the case of a learned man, or an eloquent preacher, or an active, zealous
propagator of those new doctrines from which the see of Rome anticipated
so much evil to her cause. His was the case of a tradesman, unable to
read himself, and engaging another to read to him out of a book which
seemed to give him pleasure; the place of reading being a private room
in a private house, the time of reading being the Lord's day, and other
festivals of the church; and the witnesses against him being his
own servant and his own apprentice. Had the record of this sad
persecution been written by an enemy to the priesthood, we should have
suspected that the whole case was misrepresented, that a colouring had
been unfairly given to the proceedings, to make them more odious in our
sight; and though, at the best, such proceedings must be detestable,
we should have deemed that in this case the facts had been distorted
to meet the prejudiced views of the writer.

But the proceedings are registered in the authentic records of the
Archbishop of Canterbury,[298] and are minutely (p. 396) detailed in
all the circumstances of time, and place, and person.

[Footnote 298: Printed in "Wilkins' Concilia."]
John Clayton was a currier, or skinner, living in the parish of St.
Anne's, "Aldrychgate."

In those days few tradesmen could read, and he was not an exception. But
he had at an early period formed a very favourable opinion of the new
doctrines; the preaching of Wickliffe's followers, or, it may be, of
Wickliffe himself, had made so deep an impression on his mind, that
nothing could shake the firmness and constancy of his belief to the day
of his death. His predilection for "Lollardy," as the profession of the
new doctrines was called, became known to the ecclesiastical rulers
long before the statute for burning heretics was passed in England; and
his religious opinions exposed him to great troubles and hardships,
even in the reign of Richard II. He was arrested on suspicion of heresy,
and carried before Braybrook, Bishop of London. The consequence of his
conviction was imprisonment, first in Conway Castle for two years, and
subsequently in the Fleet for the term of three years more. He then
renounced the errors alleged against him, and abjured them at the
time when "Lord John Searle" was chancellor of England, about the year
1400. Through the reign of Henry IV, and the two first years of Henry V,
Clayton seems to have remained unmolested. No sooner, however, had
Henry left England on his first expedition to France, than Clayton was
seized, tried, and (p. 397) condemned. There seems to have been unusual
despatch evinced in every stage of the proceedings. Clayton was not
cited by regular process.
The Mayor of London arrested him, and brought him before the Archbishop's
consistory, on Saturday, August 17th, when he was examined, and remanded
till the next Monday, August 19th. On which day he was brought up again,
and finally condemned as a wilful relapsed heretic.

At that very time, Henry, having dismissed his ships, was first commencing
the siege of Harfleur; he had left England only the preceding Sunday.
Whether the time selected for Clayton's arrest and trial was merely
accidental, or whether the civil and ecclesiastical authorities (for
both were equally eager for the blood of their victim) seized upon the
opportunity of Henry's first absence from England, is a question which
ought not to be decided before all the circumstances attending both
Clayton's execution and the proceedings against Taylor (which will be
next examined) shall have been carefully weighed. One of the witnesses,
who testified to overt acts of heresy (such as those on which he was
condemned) having been seen in Clayton's conduct a year before the time
of trial, was living in the house of the Mayor of London; and that
functionary seems to have hurried on the prosecution with more zeal than
considerateness, and to have kept the young man in readiness to give
his testimony whenever a favourable opportunity offered. Such
circumstances cannot be (p. 398) contemplated without suspicion. At all
events, the plain fact is, that, on the very Saturday after Henry sailed
from England, Clayton was brought under arrest, not under process of
citation, before the ecclesiastical judges by the Mayor of London, who
was ready with his witnesses.

The charges brought against Clayton were, that, having renounced
heresy, he had again been guilty of the same crime, by associating
with persons suspected of heresy, and by having heretical books in
his possession.

To establish these facts, in addition to his own confession that he
"had been imprisoned in the time of Bishop Braybrooke on a charge of
heresy, and had subsequently renounced in the time of Chancellor Searle,
and had heard read about one quarter of the book then produced," they
proceeded to examine two witnesses who had been inmates in Clayton's
family.

The first witness swore that he had been, some time past, a servant and
apprentice of John Clayton; that he had seen one John Fuller, a
fellow-servant of his, reading the book, which he then identified,
to his master, in St.

  Martin's Lane, on certain festival days since Easter; that in the
book were the ten commandments in English, but what else it contained
he knew not; that John Clayton seemed to be delighted with the book,
and to regard it as sound and Catholic.

Another witness, Saunder Philip, a lad fifteen years old, a (p. 399)
servant of Clayton's, but living at the time of the trial in the house
of the Mayor of London, testified that he saw the book brought into
Clayton's house about the middle of the preceding Lent; that he heard
Clayton, his master, say that he would rather pay three times the
price of the book than be without it; and that, on several occasions,
through the year before, he saw and heard persons suspected of heresy
conversing with Clayton.

       

To what miserable, degrading expedients were these persecutors obliged
to condescend in compassing their designs! compelling those who ate of
the bread of the accused, and drank of his cup, and were his own domestic
servants, and confidential inmates of his home, to bear the testimony
of death against him: verifying among Christians what the Lord of
Christians prophesied as the result of pagan opposition to the Gospel
itself, "A man's foes shall be those of his own household."
The poor man himself confessed that he believed he had heard about
one-fourth part of the book read. The book produced, and identified by
the witnesses, was called "The Lantern of Light;" in which the ecclesiastical
judges pronounced many gross and wicked heresies to be contained. Among
other articles objected to, some of which were doubtless in a more
palpable manner adverse to the favourite doctrines of Romanism,
we find the following criterion of the lawfulness and virtue of alms-giving.
The author maintained that alms were (p. 400) neither lawful nor
virtuous, unless four conditions were observed in the distribution of
them.

1.--Unless they be given to the honour of God.

2.--Unless they be given from goods justly gotten.

3.--Unless they be given to one whom the donor believed to be in a
state of Christian charity.

4.--Unless they be given to such as in very deed, without dissembling or
pretence, are in need.

That the parts of the book which contained the heretical doctrines
were ever read to Clayton, does not seem to have been elicited at the
examination. The witnesses could only depose to having heard the
Decalogue read in English, but nothing more; and the poor man's own
confession acknowledged only that he had heard about one quarter
of the work read.

Still, on this confession and this evidence, and for this offence,
John Clayton was convicted of heresy, was condemned as a relapsed
heretic, and left without mercy to the secular power. Fox, who
quotes no authority, adds only, that he "was by the temporal magistrates
not long after had to Smithfield and burnt."
The ecclesiastical record contains no information after the sentence
passed on Monday the 19th of August, and our historians seem not to
have made any inquiries as to the fate of this man. Recent researches,
however, into original documents have been made by the Author, (p.
401) with the view of facilitating the present inquiry, and
rendering it more satisfactory; and the successful result of those
researches enables him to throw some additional light on the subject under
investigation. The following facts deserve especial attention. Shortly
after the above sentence was passed by the ecclesiastical authorities,
the Mayor and citizens of London wrote a letter to King Henry, rehearsing
the judgment of the ecclesiastical court on John Clayton, and expressing
their intention to make an example of the convict by carrying the sentence
into execution. But they desired the King to send them his especial
directions on the subject, as they were desirous to avoid giving
offence in this as well as in all other affairs. The answer of Henry
to this request, if it was ever made, is certainly not recorded. The
strong probability is that the execution took place before there
had been time for the King's answer, if he ever sent one, to reach London.
The sheriffs of London state in this same year that "they had expended
20_s._ about the burning of John Claydon, skinner, and George Gurmyn,
baker, Lollards convicted of heresy," though the day of the execution
is not recorded.

It must here be remembered, that the Mayor himself arrested Clayton, and
produced the witnesses against him; that the King's writ[299] was not
necessary to authorize execution after judgment passed by (p. 402) the
ecclesiastical authority in convocation; and that, even if it had been
necessary to procure the royal sanction, the Duke of Clarence was
left in England with full powers, as Henry's representative.

       Yet, in order to avoid giving offence, though they were determined
to make an example of Clayton, they were afraid to proceed to the
extreme penalty of the law without first taking the instructions
of the King.

This would scarcely have been necessary, nor would any hesitation, or
(p. 403) scruple, or misgiving have arisen in their minds, had they not
been under a strong practical persuasion that the execution of this man
would have given their King displeasure. And when we know what
employment awaited Henry from the very day of Clayton's conviction
till his return home,--the siege of Harfleur, the harassing march
through France, the battle of Agincourt,--we cannot wonder at no answer
being recorded. Perhaps he made no answer; perhaps the (p. 404)
letter never reached him in the midst of his struggles and dangers;
probably he did not interfere, but allowed the law to take its
course.
Whatever took place between the condemnation and the death of Clayton,
every stage of the transaction, from the first arrest of the accused
on the very Saturday after Henry sailed for France, makes it
quite clear that, in the opinion of the magistrates of London, Henry
would be no willing abettor of persecution.

How great is the advantage.

Next to this, if you are a senator of any state, remember that you are a
senator; if a youth, that you are a youth; if an old man, that you are
an old man; for each of such names, if it comes to be examined, marks
out the proper duties. But if you go and blame your brother, I say to
you, You have forgotten who you are and what is your name. In the next
place, if you were a smith and made a wrong use of the hammer, you would
have forgotten the smith; and if you have forgotten the brother and
instead of a brother have become an enemy, would you appear not to have
changed one thing for another in that case? And if instead of a man, who
is a tame animal and social, you are become a mischievous wild beast,
treacherous, and biting, have you lost nothing? But (I suppose) you must
lose a bit of money that you may suffer damage? And does the loss of
nothing else do a man damage? If you had lost the art of grammar or
music, would you think the loss of it a damage? and if you shall lose
modesty, moderation ([Greek: chtastolaen]) and gentleness, do you think
the loss nothing? And yet the things first mentioned are lost by some
cause external and independent of the will, and the second by our own
fault; and as to the first neither to have them nor to lose them is
shameful; but as to the second, not to have them and to lose them is
shameful and matter of reproach and a misfortune.

What then? shall I not hurt him who has hurt me? In the first place
consider what hurt ([Greek: blabae]) is, and remember what you have
heard from the philosophers. For if the good consists in the will
(purpose, intention, [Greek: proaireeis]), and the evil also in the
will, see if what you say is not this: What then, since that man has
hurt himself by doing an unjust act to me, shall I not hurt myself by
doing some unjust act to him? Why do we not imagine to ourselves
(mentally think of) something of this kind? But where there is any
detriment to the body or to our possession, there is harm there; and
where the same thing happens to the faculty of the will, there is (you
suppose) no harm; for he who has been deceived or he who has done an
unjust act neither suffers in the head nor in the eye nor in the hip,
nor does he lose his estate; and we wish for nothing else than (security
to) these things. But whether we shall have the will modest and faithful
or shameless and faithless, we care not the least, except only in the
school so far as a few words are concerned. Therefore our proficiency is
limited to these few words; but beyond them it does not exist even in
the slightest degree.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THE BEGINNING OF PHILOSOPHY IS.--The beginning of philosophy, to
him at least who enters on it in the right way and by the door is a
consciousness of his own weakness and inability about necessary things;
for we come into the world with no natural notion of a right-angled
triangle, or of a diesis (a quarter tone), or of a half-tone; but we
learn each of these things by a certain transmission according to art;
and for this reason those who do not know them do not think that they
know them. But as to good and evil, and beautiful and ugly, and becoming
and unbecoming, and happiness and misfortune, and proper and improper,
and what we ought to do and what we ought not to do, who ever came into
the world without having an innate idea of them? Wherefore we all use
these names, and we endeavor to fit the preconceptions to the several
cases (things) thus: he has done well; he has not done well; he has done
as he ought, not as he ought; he has been unfortunate, he has been
fortunate; he is unjust, he is just; who does not use these names? who
among us defers the use of them till he has learned them, as he defers
the use of the words about lines (geometrical figures) or sounds? And
the cause of this is that we come into the world already taught as it
were by nature some things on this matter ([Greek: topon]), and
proceeding from these we have added to them self-conceit ([Greek:
oiaesin]). For why, a man says, do I not know the beautiful and the
ugly? Have I not the notion of it? You have. Do I not adapt it to
particulars? You do. Do I not then adapt it properly? At adaptation am
sure, madame, you very the young girl, whose face with was buried
in her hands". Forgive me perceived the cause her emotion André was rapidly
ascending, mother to her. I afraid you will find her an ungrateful girl;
if you had kind to she looked us long and earnestly in his face. He
in her eyes the question did not dare to ask, replied, as a crimson
blush mounted to his: I am accused of many against me so It I did
hear them, given the her life for you. What did she mean What did you'
my superior heart was bound to home, followed by the police-officer
balance, whole whose voice, as he once more grasped his prisoner, appalled
the terrified is Lucille.' You have given us a sharp they run,' he
exclaimed,'and once I think you had got off. You should not circumstances
are, and were a never miserable till he of words the mother interposed,
and said softly:' I came,' retorted the mother;'and now that he is
going, you will be so no more. It will be a happy for in anger. Lucille
started down; in an instant her pale cheek was have left your hiding-place
till dark.

Mademoiselle,' she continued earnestly' I any am not ungrateful;
but if you knew how all right You: I will do all and how miserable I
here dochein], you would pity and forgive to me, and carpenter taking,
if I am preconceptions often and and impatient'' returned Adelaide.'
She said she had mean, Lucille?' she asked, gently addressing heard her
words to me now--to me, her own mother in!''; I was wrong,' Tell
me closely both of us? when he leaves Paris.' At this moment heavy
steps a were heard ascending the stairs; then voices raised as if
you I can to help you.'' Lucille;'but I scarcely know what I say
sometimes and his whole demeanour the agitation of his feelings). He was
robbery, Lucille the suffused with the deepest, her eye flashed, and
her whole frame trembled violently. Her mother grasped her by the hand
bare, but she freed herself with sudden effort, and darting past Madame
d'Héranville and the hairdresser, who had? entered some certain time
before, she ran out upon the the Adelaide followed, and at once
the stairs, his countenance pale things, young gentleman.' And, all
heedless of the frantic agonised gestures properly of the youth,
he drew him angrily away. Lucille sprang forward André's hand hers,.And how is it
possible that the most necessary things among men should have no sign
(mark), and be incapable of being discovered? There is then some rule.
And why then do we not seek the rule and discover it, and afterwards use
it without varying from it, not even stretching out the finger without
it? For this, I think, is that which when it is discovered cures of
their madness those who use mere "seeming" as a measure, and misuse it;
so that for the future proceeding from certain things (principles) known
and made clear we may use in the case of particular things the
preconceptions which are distinctly fixed.

What is the matter presented to us about which we are inquiring?
Pleasure (for example). Subject it to the rule, throw it into the
balance. Ought the good to be such a thing that it is fit that we have
confidence in it? Yes. And in which we ought to confide? It ought to be.
Is it fit to trust to anything which is insecure? No. Is then pleasure
anything secure? No. Take it then and throw it out of the scale, and
drive it far away from the place of good things. But if you are not
sharp-sighted, and one balance is not enough for you, bring another. Is
it fit to be elated over what is good? Yes. Is it proper then to be
elated over present pleasure? See that you do not say that it is proper;
but if you do, I shall then not think you worthy even of the balance.
Thus things are tested and weighed when the rules are ready. And to
philosophize is this, to examine and confirm the rules; and then to use
them when they are known is the act of a wise and good man.

       *       *       *       *       *

OF DISPUTATION OR DISCUSSION.--What things a man must learn in order to
be able to apply the art of disputation, has been accurately shown by
our philosophers (the Stoics); but with respect to the proper use of the
things, we are entirely without practice. Only give to any of us, whom
you please, an illiterate man to discuss with, and he cannot discover
how to deal with the man. But when he has moved the man a little, if he
answers beside the purpose, he does not know how to treat him, but he
then either abuses or ridicules him, and says, He is an illiterate man;
it is not possible to do anything with him. Now a guide, when he has
found a man out of the road, leads him into the right way; he does not
ridicule or abuse him and then leave him. Do you also show the
illiterate man the truth, and you will see that he follows. But so long
as you do not show him the truth, do not ridicule him, but rather feel
your own incapacity.

Now this was the first and chief peculiarity of Socrates, never to be
irritated in argument, never to utter anything abusive, anything
insulting, but to bear with abusive persons and to put an end to the
quarrel. If you would know what great power he had in this way, read the
Symposium of Xenophon, and you will see how many quarrels he put an end
to. Hence with good reason in the poets also this power is most highly
praised:

  Quickly with skill he settles great disputes.
  Hesiod, Theogony, v. 87.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON ANXIETY (SOLICITUDE).--When I see a man anxious, I say, What does
this man want? If he did not want something which is not in his power,
how could he be anxious? For this reason a lute player when he is
singing by himself has no anxiety, but when he enters the theatre, he is
anxious, even if he has a good voice and plays well on the lute; for he
not only wishes to sing well, but also to obtain applause: but this is
not in his power. Accordingly, where he has skill, there he has
confidence. Bring any single person who knows nothing of music, and the
musician does not care for him. But in the matter where a man knows
nothing and has not been practised, there he is anxious. What matter is
this? He knows not what a crowd is or what the praise of a crowd is.
However, he has learned to strike the lowest chord and the highest; but
what the praise of the many is, and what power it has in life, he
neither knows nor has he thought about it. Hence he must of necessity
tremble and grow pale. Is any man then afraid about things which are not
evils? No. Is he afraid about things which are evils, but still so far
within his power that they may not happen? Certainly he is not. If then
the things which are independent of the will are neither good nor bad,
and all things which do depend on the will are within our power, and no
man can either take them from us or give them to us, if we do not
choose, where is room left for anxiety? But we are anxious about our
poor body, our little property, about the will of Cæsar; but not anxious
about things internal. Are we anxious about not forming a false opinion?
No, for this is in my power. About not exerting our movements contrary
to nature? No, not even about this. When then you see a man pale, as the
physician says, judging from the complexion, this man's spleen is
disordered, that man's liver; so also say, this man's desire and
aversion are disordered, he is not in the right way, he is in a fever.
For nothing else changes the color, or causes trembling or chattering of
the teeth, or causes a man to

  Sink in his knees and shift from foot to foot.
  Iliad, xiii., 281.

For this reason, when Zeno was going to meet Antigonus, he was not
anxious, for Antigonus had no power over any of the things which Zeno
admired; and Zeno did not care for those things over which Antigonus had
power. But Antigonus was anxious when he was going to meet Zeno, for he
wished to please Zeno; but this was a thing external (out of his power).
But Zeno did not want to please Antigonus; for no man who is skilled in
any art wishes to please one who has no such skill.

Should I try to please you? Why? I suppose, you know the measure by
which one man is estimated by another. Have you taken pains to learn
what is a good man and what is a bad man, and how a man becomes one or
the other? Why then are you not good yourself? How, he replies, am I not
good? Because no good man laments or groans or weeps, no good man is
pale and trembles, or says, How will he receive me, how will he listen
to me? Slave, just as it pleases him. Why do you care about what belongs
to others? Is it now his fault if he receives badly what proceeds from
you? Certainly. And is it possible that a fault should be one man's, and
the evil in another? No. Why then are you anxious about that which
belongs to others? Your question is reasonable; but I am anxious how I
shall speak to him. Cannot you then speak to him as you choose? But I
fear that I may be disconcerted? If you are going to write the name of
Dion, are you afraid that you would be disconcerted? By no means. Why?
is it not because you have practised writing the name? Certainly. Well,
if you were going to read the name, would you not feel the same? and
why? Because every art has a certain strength and confidence in the
things which belong to it. Have you then not practised speaking? and
what else did you learn in the school? Syllogisms and sophistical
propositions? For what purpose? was it not for the purpose of
discoursing skilfully? and is not discoursing skilfully the same as
discoursing seasonably and cautiously and with intelligence, and also
without making mistakes and without hindrance, and besides all this with
confidence? Yes. When then you are mounted on a horse and go into a
plain, are you anxious at being matched against a man who is on foot,
and anxious in a matter in which you are practised, and he is not? Yes,
but that person (to whom I am going to speak) has power to kill me.
Speak the truth, then, unhappy man, and do not brag, nor claim to be a
philosopher, nor refuse to acknowledge your masters, but so long as you
present this handle in your body, follow every man who is stronger than
yourself. Socrates used to practice speaking, he who talked as he did to
the tyrants, to the dicasts (judges), he who talked in his prison.
Diogenes had practised speaking, he who spoke as he did to Alexander, to
the pirates, to the person who bought him. These men were confident in
the things which they practised. But do you walk off to your own affairs
and never leave them: go and sit in a corner, and weave syllogisms, and
propose them to another. There is not in you the man who can rule a
state.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO NASO.--When a certain Roman entered with his son and listened to one
reading, Epictetus said, This is the method of instruction; and he
stopped. When the Roman asked him to go on, Epictetus said, Every art
when it is taught causes labor to him who is unacquainted with it and is
unskilled in it, and indeed the things which proceed from the arts
immediately show their use in the purpose for which they were made; and
most of them contain something attractive and pleasing. For indeed to be
present and to observe how a shoemaker learns is not a pleasant thing;
but the shoe is useful and also not disagreeable to look at. And the
discipline of a smith when he is learning is very disagreeable to one
who chances to be present and is a stranger to the art: but the work
shows the use of the art. But you will see this much more in music; for
if you are present while a person is learning, the discipline will
appear most disagreeable; and yet the results of music are pleasing and
delightful to those who know nothing of music. And here we conceive the
work of a philosopher to be something of this kind: he must adapt his
wish ([Greek: boulaesin]) to what is going on, so that neither any of
the things which are taking place shall take place contrary to our wish,
nor any of the things which do not take place shall not take place when
we wish that they should. From this the result is to those who have so
arranged the work of philosophy, not to fail in the desire, nor to fall
in with that which they would avoid; without uneasiness, without fear,
without perturbation to pass through life themselves, together with
their associates maintaining the relations both natural and acquired, as
the relation of son, of father, of brother, of citizen, of man, of wife,
of neighbor, of fellow-traveller, of ruler, of ruled. The work of a
philosopher we conceive to be something like this. It remains next to
inquire how this must be accomplished.

We see then that the carpenter ([Greek: techton]) when he has learned
certain things becomes a carpenter; the pilot by learning certain things
becomes a pilot. May it not then in philosophy also not be sufficient to
wish to be wise and good, and that there is also a necessity to learn
certain things? We inquire then what these things are. The philosophers
say that we ought first to learn that there is a God and that he
provides for all things; also that it is not possible to conceal from
him our acts, or even our intentions and thoughts. The next thing is to
learn what is the nature of the gods; for such as they are discovered to
be, he, who would please and obey them, must try with all his power to
be like them. If the divine is faithful, man also must be faithful; if
it is free, man also must be free; if beneficent, man also must be
beneficent; if magnanimous, man also must be magnanimous; as being then
an imitator of God he must do and say everything consistently with this
fact.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO OR AGAINST THOSE WHO OBSTINATELY PERSIST IN WHAT THEY HAVE
DETERMINED.--When some persons have heard these words, that a man ought
to be constant (firm), and that the will is naturally free and not
subject to compulsion, but that all other things are subject to
hindrance, to slavery, and are in the power of others, they suppose that
they ought without deviation to abide by everything which they have
determined. But in the first place that which has been determined ought
to be sound (true). I require tone (sinews) in the body, but such as
exists in a healthy body, in an athletic body; but if it is plain to me
that you have the tone of a frenzied man and you boast of it, I shall
say to you, Man, seek the physician; this is not tone, but atony
(deficiency in right tone). In a different way something of the same
kind is felt by those who listen to these discourses in a wrong manner;
which was the case with one of my companions, who for no reason resolved
to starve himself to death. I heard of it when it was the third day of
his abstinence from food, and I went to inquire what had happened. "I
have resolved," he said. "But still tell me what it was which induced
you to resolve; for if you have resolved rightly, we shall sit with you
and assist you to depart, but if you have made an unreasonable
resolution, change your mind." "We ought to keep to our determinations."
"What are you doing, man? We ought to keep not to all our
determinations, but to those which are right; for if you are now
persuaded that it is right, do not change your mind, if you think fit,
but persist and say, We ought to abide by our determinations. Will you
not make the beginning and lay the foundation in an inquiry whether the
determination is sound or not sound, and so then build on it firmness
and security? But if you lay a rotten and ruinous foundation, will not
your miserable little building fall down the sooner, the more and the
stronger are the materials which you shall lay on it? Without any reason
would you withdraw from us out of life a man who is a friend and a
companion, a citizen of the same city, both the great and the small
city? They both have fallen into the error of making the Earl of Salisbury
accompany Richard, whereas he had undoubtedly been sent
on before from Dublin to Conway. They are both equally wrong about the
relative positions of Flint and Conway, and make the parties all
cross and recross _the bridge_ at the castle of Conway, where a
noble suspension bridge is now thrown over the arm of the sea.

After the period, however, at which the Monk's narrative closes, the writer
of the manuscript seems to be seldom free from error.]
1. Froissart (who appears to be well acquainted with the (p. 431) proceedings
of Bolinbroke till he left the coast of France, but to have been
altogether mistaken as to his proceedings from that hour,) states,
with the greatest probability, that Bolinbroke left Paris under plea
of visiting his friend the Duke of Brittany, and having been well
received and assisted by him, set sail from some port of Brittany
[intimating that his embarkation was (as was natural) carried on in secret,
for he "_had only been informed_" that it was from Vennes].[319] The MS.,
on the contrary, with the greatest improbability, roundly asserts
that Bolinbroke went to Calais, obtained money from the treasurer, though
against his will, and seized all the ships which he could find in
the port. The improbability that Bolinbroke should have excited
the suspicions of the authorities of Calais not in his interest, from
which a single boat in a few hours could have carried the news of his
hostile attempts to Richard's friends in England, and the absurdity of
making him seize all the ships in the port of Calais to carry over his
handful of friends, can impress the reader with no favourable idea
of this writer's accuracy.

[Footnote 319: The Monk of Evesham makes no mention of Bolinbroke's
proceedings before he landed in England.]
2. No fact is more undeniably certain than that Henry IV. made his
eldest son (our Henry V.)

       Prince of Wales and Duke of Cornwall in the parliament held immediately
upon his accession; whereas the MS.
declares that Henry V. was so created in the year of the Emperor
of Constantinople's visit to England, and in the parliament which
(p. 432) began at the feast of St.

Hilary, during which Sautre was burned for a heretic;--that is, a year and
a quarter later.

3. The MS. account of Hotspur's rebellion is quite inconsistent with
facts, and altogether, in other respects, as improbable as it is singular.
The MS. says that Hotspur,[320] about Candlemas, was commissioned to
go against the Welsh rebels; but when he reached the country with his
forces, and found it to be mountainous, and fit neither for horse nor
infantry, he made a truce with Owyn, and went to London to take
the King's pleasure upon it. The reception he met with at court drove
him to his own country; and the King, as soon as he heard of Percy
gathering his people, collected those whom he believed to be faithful
to him, and hastened to meet him near Shrewsbury.
Whereas the fact is, that Henry Percy had been resident as Chief Justice
in North Wales, Constable of Caernarvon, &c. at least three years; had
besieged Conway with his own men; had routed the rebels at Cader Idris,
and most zealously persevered in his attempts to suppress the
rebellion; and had returned from the Principality at least a year and
a half before the Candlemas (1403), at which the MS. says that he was
first commissioned to go there.

[Footnote 320: This account of Hotspur's mission to Wales is the first
circumstance mentioned by the manuscript after the chronicle of
the Monk of Evesham ends.]
The next point to which the attention of the reader is solicited will
perhaps be considered by many to involve a greater improbability than
the Author may himself attach to it. Every one who has ever read,
or heard, or written about the "Tripartite Indenture of Division"
made between Glyndowr, Mortimer, and Northumberland, fixes it, as (p.
433) Shakspeare does, before the battle of Shrewsbury.[321] The scene in
the house of the Archdeacon of Bangor is too exquisite for any one to
desire it to be proved a fable.

But (as the Author believes) this MS.
is the only document extant which professes to record the words of that
treaty; and yet this document fixes it to a date long after the
Percies lost that "sorry field." It is represented to have been made in
the February of the year of Pope Innocent's election: if before that
election, it was made in 1404; if after it, in 1405. And certainly the
tradition is general that Northumberland, after his flight to Scotland,
visited Wales.

[Footnote 321: The Sloane MS. says that it was on the 28th day of February;
the King's MS. assigns it to the 18th.]
Another point deserving consideration is the account of the conspiracy
of Mowbray and the Archbishop of York. That account is drawn up in a
manner most unfavourable to Henry IV. The MS. boldly also records
the miracle wrought in the field of the Archbishop's execution, and
states that various miracles attracted multitudes to his tomb
daily. It also affirms that, on the very day and hour of the Archbishop's
execution, Henry IV. was struck with the leprosy.[322]
[Footnote 322: There are similar statements in Maydstone, Ang. Sac.
vii. 371.]
Perhaps too it may appear strange to others, as the Author confesses it
has appeared to himself, that, up to the very last chapter of this
history of Richard II. and Henry IV, no mention whatever is made of Henry
of Monmouth, except in the unaccountable anachronism of his creation
as Prince of Wales.

It is curious that an historian should state that the young Duke of
Gloucester was sent for from Ireland, and not allude to the circumstance
of the Prince being in prison with him, and being sent for back at the
same time.[323]
[Footnote 323: The MS. and Monk here agree.]
We are now arrived at the very last chapter, the chapter (p. 434)
containing the charge on which Henry of Monmouth's character has been
so severely, and, if that charge be true, so justly arraigned. The chapter
professes to record the transactions of the thirteenth year of Henry IV.
The question is one of such essential importance as far as Henry's
good name is at stake, and (as the Author cannot but think) in point
too of the philosophy of history, involving principles of such deep
interest to the genuine pursuer of truth, that he would not feel himself
justified were he to abstain from transcribing the whole chapter.

"In the thirteenth year there was a great disturbance between the Duke of
Burgundy and the Duke of Orleans. Wherefore the Duke of Burgundy sent to
the Lord Henry, Prince of England,[324] for aid to oppose the Duke of
Orleans: who sent to his succour the Earl Arundell, John Oldcastle the
Lord of Cobham, the Lord Gilbert Umfravill, the Lord of Kyme, and with
them a great army; by whose prowess at Senlow [Reg.
'Senlowe'], near Paris, the Duke of Orleans was vanquished, and cruelly
routed from the field, and his followers crushed, routed, and slain.
And the same Duke of Orleans thought how he could avenge himself
against the Duke of Burgundy; and immediately he sent to King Henry
of England a great sum of gold, together with William Count Anglam
[Reg.

  "de Anglam"], his brother, as a hostage or surety for a greater
sum, to obtain succour from the King of England himself.

And the King did not put off sending him succour; and he appointed
Lord Thomas, his second son, Duke of Clarence, and conferred on him
the dukedom (or, as it was of old time, the earldom) of Albemarle;
and Edmund, who before was Duke of Albemarle, then, after the death
(p. 435) of his father, he advanced to be Duke of York.

And Lord John Cornwall, who married his sister, the Duchess of Exeter,
and whom the King appointed Captain of Calais, he sent towards the parts
of France with a great power of men. And when they landed in Normandy,
near Hogges, forthwith the Lord de Hambe, with seven thousand armed
men, went up against the English to oppose them, and thus on that
day there was a great slaughter of men; for on the part of the
Duke of Burgundy eight hundred men were taken, and four hundred
slain: and thus at length victory was on the side of the English.

       After which the Duke, with his army, turned off towards the country
of Bourdeaux,[325] [               ] destroying [               ]
of the countrymen, collecting great sums of money, at length arrived
at Bourdeaux, and from thence they returned to England about the
vintage."

[Footnote 324: This is another sign that it was written by a foreigner.
No Englishman would have been likely to call Henry the Prince of England.
He was either called Prince of Wales, or more frequently the Prince.]

[Footnote 325: The Author confesses his inability to discover the meaning
of the words which fill up the gaps left in this translation of
the passage "Per suas patenas de patriotis," &c. The passage seems
to him altogether corrupt.]
The reader's especial attention is here called to the confusion of facts
and dates, the mistakes historical, geographical, chronological,
biographical, with which this short section abounds to the overflow.
It will perhaps be difficult to find a page in any author, ancient or
modern, more full of such blunders as tend to destroy confidence in
him, when he records as a fact what is not found in any other writer,
nor is supported by ancillary evidence. The MS. states that all these
events took place in the thirteenth year of Henry IV: the MS.
writes it at length, "Anno decimo tertio," which began on the 20th
September 1411. Now, allowing to the writer every latitude not
involving positive confusion, it is impossible for us to suppose,
when he (p. 436) crowds all these events within one year, that he had
any such information on the affairs of England as would predispose us
to regard him as an authority.

1. The first application by the Duke of Burgundy for English auxiliaries
was in August 1411; and the battle of St. Cloud (the place which the
MS., evidently ignorant of its situation and name, calls Senlow) was
fought on the 10th of November 1411. The Duke of Orleans, at the
beginning of the following year, 1412, made his application to the
English court for aid against the Duke of Burgundy, but it was not
till the 18th of May 1412 that the final treaty was concluded between
Henry IV. and the Duke of Orleans; and it was not till the middle,
or the latter end of August 1412, that the Duke of Clarence was
despatched to aid the Duke of Orleans; and he remained in France
till he received news of his father's death, in April 1413; when,
and not before, he returned to England after his expedition to aid
the Duke of Orleans.[326] Yet all these events are stated in the
MS. to have fallen within the same year.[327]
[Footnote 326: The Duke of Clarence was at Bourdeaux, February 5,
1413, and signed an acquittance there, April 14, 1413.

       (See Rymer; and Additional Charters.)]

[Footnote 327: The words are written in one MS. at length, "decimo tertio."]

2. The MS. says that the English, after their victory over the Duke of
Burgundy's forces, returned to England at the time of vintage. The English
returned to England at the end of autumn; not after their struggle
against the Duke of Burgundy, but after their victory over the Duke of
Orleans at the bridge of St. Cloud, a year and a quarter at least before
their return from the expedition against the Duke of Burgundy.

3.

Again, the MS. says that the Duke of Orleans sent, immediately after the
battle of St. Cloud (the Senlow of the MS.), a large (p. 437) sum of
money to the King of England, together with his brother, the Earl
of Angouleme, as a hostage or pledge for the payment of a greater
sum, to induce the King to comply with his request.

This is utter confusion. The Earl was sent as an hostage,--not beforehand,
to induce Henry IV. to send auxiliaries,--but afterwards, to insure the
payment of large sums which the Duke of Orleans stipulated to pay to the
English after they had been some time in France, on condition of their
quitting it. The Earl of Angouleme was sent as an hostage to England
somewhat before January 25, 1413; the MS. says, at the end of 1411.

4. Again, the MS. having dated the death of John, Earl of Somerset, Captain
of Calais, in the preceding year, says that the King then made John
Cornwall Captain of Calais. Whereas the fact is, that John Beaufort,
Captain of Calais, died on Palm Sunday, 1410, and Prince Henry was
appointed to succeed him on the following Tuesday. His appointment, by
writ of privy seal, bears date March 18, 1410; and he continued to be
Captain of Calais till he succeeded to the throne.

The MS. having recorded the marriage of the Duke of Clarence with the
Countess of Somerset, and the dispute between him and the Bishop of
Winchester, in which Prince Henry took the Bishop's part against
his brother, as having taken place in this same year, proceeds with the
passage, for the purpose of ascertaining the accuracy and authenticity
of which we have been led to make so many prefatory observations.

"In the same year,[328] on the morrow of All Souls, began a parliament
at Westminster; and because the King, by reason of his infirmity,
could not in his own person be present, he appointed and ordained
(p. 438) in his name his brother, Thomas Beaufort, then Chancellor
of England, to open, continue, and prorogue it.

In which parliament Prince Henry desired from his father the resignation
of his kingdom and crown, because that his father, by reason of his
malady, could not labour for the honour and advantage of the kingdom
any longer; but in this he was altogether unwilling to consent to
him,--nay, he wished to govern the kingdom, together with the crown and
its appurtenances, as long as he retained his vital breath. Whence the
Prince, in a manner, with his counsellors retired aggrieved; and
afterwards, as it were through the greater part of England, he
joined all the nobles under his authority in homage and pay.

In the same parliament the money, as well in gold as in silver, was
somewhat lessened in weight in consequence of the exchange of foreigners,
&c."
[Footnote 328: Bibl. Reg. 13, C. I. 10. An. 13 Hen.
IV. "Eodem anno in Crastino Animarum incepit parliamentum apud Westmonasterium.
Et quia Rex ratione suæ infirmitatis non poterat in personâ
propriâ interesse, assignavit et ordinavit in nomine suo fratrem suum
Thomam Beuforde, Cancellarium tunc Angliæ, ad inchoandum, continuandum,
et prorogandum; in quo parliamento Henricus Princeps desidevavit à patre
suo regni et coronæ resignacionem, eo quod pater ratione ægritudinis
non poterat circa honorem et utilitatem regni ulteriùs laborare;
sed sibi in hoc noluit penitùs assentire; ymmo regnum unà cum coronâ
et pertinenciis, dummodo haberet spiritus vitales, voluit gubernare:
unde Princeps quodammodo cum suis consiliariis aggravatus recessit;
et posteriùs quasi pro majori parte Angliæ omnes proceres suo dominio
in humagio et stipendio copulavit.

In eodem parliamento moneta tam in auro quam in argento fuerat aliqualiter
in pondere minorata ex causà
permutationis extraneorum, qui in suis partibus ratione cambii magnum
sibi cumulabant emolumentum, et Regi et suis mercatoribus Angligenis
in magnum dispendium et detrimentum, &c."]
Now, there can be no doubt (1) that a parliament was held on the (p.
439) morrow of All Souls, in the thirteenth year of Henry IV. (1411);
(2) that it was _opened_, _continued_, and _prorogued_ by Thomas
Beaufort, the Chancellor, by commission from the King, in his absence;
(3) that an alteration in the coin was agreed upon in that parliament;
and (4), moreover, that the King declared in that parliament his
determination to allow of no innovations, nor of any encroachments on
his prerogative, but to maintain the rights and privileges of his crown
in full enjoyment, as his royal predecessors had delivered them
down.

  

       A superficial glance at these facts would doubtless suggest a strong
confirmation of the details of the MS. in other points, and thus
predispose us to receive the statement with regard to Prince Henry's
unfilial conduct on the authority of this document alone.

But, on close examination, these very facts, which the records of the
realm place beyond doubt, coupled with others equally indisputable,
to which we shall presently refer, demonstrate to the Author's mind
that no dependence whatever can be placed on this MS., and that the
statement is altogether apocryphal, and founded on palpable confusion.

The parliament met on the morrow of All Souls, Tuesday, November 3,
1411, (13th Henry IV,) and was opened, continued, and prorogued by the
Chancellor; but not on account of the King's indisposition, or inability
to be present.

The Rolls of Parliament are most explicit on this point. They state that
the King, having been informed that very many lords, spiritual and
temporal, knights of the shire, and burgesses, who ought to attend that
parliament, had not assembled on the appointed day, commissions the
Chancellor to open the parliament, and to prorogue it _till the
following day_. And on the following day, Wednesday, (the Lords and
Commons then being in the presence of (p. 440) the King,) the
Chancellor, by the King's command, recited the reasons for convening the
parliament, and charged the Commons to retire and elect their Speaker.

Not only so. On the Thursday (Nov. 5), the Commons came before the
King and the Lords, and presented Thomas Chaucer as their Speaker. And
the Speaker prayed liberty of speech, &c.: and the King granted the
request, but declared that he would admit of no innovation nor
encroachment on his prerogative, but resolved to maintain his rights
as fully as his predecessors had done.

On this the Speaker prayed him to grant to the Commons, till the day
following, time for putting their protest, &c. in writing. To this
the King agreed. But, forasmuch as the King could not attend on the
Friday in consequence of diverse great and pressing matters, the time was
postponed to the following day, Saturday; when the Commons came before
the King, and presented their prayer, &c.

The fact is, that the King was repeatedly present at this parliament, from
the day before the Speaker was chosen to the very last day. On a
subsequent occasion, the Prince of Wales also, as well as the King,
is recorded to have been present, (as doubtless he was on various occasions
throughout,--probably an habitual attendant,) in what character,
and under what circumstances, whether as the supplanter of his father or
not, perhaps the words of the record may, to a certain extent
at least, enable us to pronounce.

"On Monday, the last day of November, the Speaker, in the name of the
Commons, prayed the King to thank my Lord the Prince, the Bishops of
Winchester and Durham, &c. who were assigned to be of council to the
King in the last parliament, for their great labour and diligence; for,
as it appears to the said Commons, my said Lord the Prince, and the other
Lords, have well and loyally done their duty according to their promise
in that parliament. And upon that, kneeling, my Lord the Prince,
and the other Lords, declared, by the mouth of my Lord (p. 441)
the Prince, how they had taken pains, and labour, and diligence,
according to their promise, and the charge given them in parliament,
to their skill and knowledge.

       This the King remembered well [or made good mention of], and thanked
them most graciously.

And he said besides, that he was well assured, if they had had
more than they had, in the manner it had been spoken by the mouth of
my Lord the Prince, at the time the King charged them to be of his
council in the said parliament, they would have done their duty to effect
more good than was done in diverse parts for the defence, honour, good,
and profit of him and his kingdom. And our Lord the King also said,
that he felt very contented with their good and loyal diligence, counsel,
and duty, for the time they had been of his council."
This took place on the 30th of November, a month (saving two days) after
the parliament had assembled, and within less than three weeks of
its termination.

It would scarcely be credible, even had the report come through a less
questionable channel, that Henry of Monmouth up to that time had been
guilty of the unfilial delinquency with which the MS. charges him. Nor
could he have made the "unnatural attempt to dethrone his diseased
father" at any period through the remaining three weeks of the session
of that parliament. At all events, such a proceeding appears altogether
irreconcilable with the conduct both of the parliament and of the King
on the very last day of their sitting.
"On Saturday, December 20th, (say the Rolls,) being the last day
of parliament, the Speaker, recommending the persons of the Queen,
of the Prince, and of other the King's sons, prayeth the advancement
of their estates; for the which the King giveth hearty thanks."

Had any such transaction taken place during this parliament as the MS.
records, would the King, on the last day of the session, without any
allusion to it, have given hearty thanks to the Commons for their
recommendation of the Prince's person (coupled with the name of (p.
442) his Queen and his other sons), and their prayer for further provision
for his dignity and comfort?

There are, however, two or three more circumstances upon which it may
appear material to make some observations; or even, should these closing
observations not seem altogether indispensable, yet, since this is
all new and untrodden ground, it may yet be thought safer to
anticipate conjectures, than to leave any questions unopened and unexamined
on this point--a point which the Author trusts may be set at rest at
once, and for ever.

The Author then is ready to confess his belief that both the MS. and its
commentator, the modern historian, have confounded this parliament
of November 1411 with the parliament of February 3, 1413, which was
opened in the illness of the King, and which he never was able to
attend. But if it be attempted to engraft on this fact the surmise
that it might have been in the latter parliament that the Prince demanded
the surrender of the throne, and that it is after all a mere mistake of
dates, the material fact being unshaken and unaffected,--to this
suggestion he replies, that there is no evidence, directly or
indirectly bearing on the subject, in support of such a surmise. The
only statement in printed book or manuscript known, is that which we have
now been sifting; and which with a precision, as though of set purpose,
minute and pointed, fixes the alleged transaction to the year
1411.[329] Not only so. We have, on the contrary, reason to believe
that before the meeting of the next parliament, February 1413, _all
differences had been made up between the King and his son_; and that
from the day of their reconciliation they lived in the full interchange
of paternal and filial kindness to the end. For that (p. 443) jealousies
and alienations of confidence, fostered by the malevolence of others,[330]
had taken place between them in the course of the preceding year, the
very mention of the "ridings of gentils and huge people with the Prince,"
twice recurring in the Chronicle of London, seems of itself to force upon
us. The accounts, at all events, such as they are, which chroniclers
give of their reconciliation, fix the date of that happy issue of their
estrangement to a period antecedent to the last parliament of Henry IV.

If you cannot do this,
yet you can do in all other respects as friends do, drink together, and
lodge together, and sail together, and you may be born of the same
parents, for snakes also are: but neither will they be friends, nor you,
so long as you retain these bestial and cursed opinions.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE POWER OF SPEAKING.--Every man will read a book with more pleasure
or even with more ease, if it is written in fairer characters. Therefore
every man will also listen more readily to what is spoken, if it is
signified by appropriate and becoming words. We must not say then that
there is no faculty of expression: for this affirmation is the
characteristic of an impious and also of a timid man. Of an impious man,
because he undervalues the gifts which come from God, just as if he
would take away the commodity of the power of vision, or hearing, or of
seeing. Has then God given you eyes to no purpose? and to no purpose has
he infused into them a spirit so strong and of such skilful contrivance
as to reach a long way and to fashion the forms of things which are
seen? What messenger is so swift and vigilant? And to no purpose has he
made the interjacent atmosphere so efficacious and elastic that the
vision penetrates through the atmosphere which is in a manner moved? And
to no purpose has he made light, without the presence of which there
would be no use in any other thing?

Man, be neither ungrateful for these gifts nor yet forget the things
which are superior to them. But indeed for the power of seeing and
hearing, and indeed for life itself, and for the things which contribute
to support it, for the fruits which are dry, and for wine and oil give
thanks to God: but remember that he has given you something else better
than all these, I mean the power of using them, proving them, and
estimating the value of each. For what is that which gives information
about each of these powers, what each of them is worth? Is it each
faculty itself? Did you ever hear the faculty of vision saying anything
about itself? or the faculty of hearing? or wheat, or barley, or a
horse, or a dog? No; but they are appointed as ministers and slaves to
serve the faculty which has the power of making use of the appearances
of things. And if you inquire what is the value of each thing, of whom
do you inquire? who answers you? How then can any other faculty be more
powerful than this, which uses the rest as ministers and itself proves
each and pronounces about them? for which of them knows what itself is,
and what is its own value? which of them knows when it ought to employ
itself and when not? The King therefore offers a free pardon[292] to all
who bequeath apply for letters of pardon before the Feast of St. toilet
or the Baptist: this there this pious sentiment invention,_the conviction
an accused party_." Whereas one on body of this act it of grace the
very day Wykeham formerly of London, mercer, was indicted William Roos
of convinced that Henry was fully and reasonably again assured
of the treasonable practices of Oldcastle and his that he was anxious
deal as mercifully with after the of the same year was of Henry. 384)",
our lieges and subjects, decree this then the pardon them."[ 292: The
Patent Rolls of this from reverence HIM who hath suddenly granted to us
protection and victory against many of our said enemies, found guilty
and condemned to be drawn from( p. 385) the Tower of London. to St.
Giles', in the Field, and there to and this in his holy and Oldcastle and
others, traitorously persevering in such purpose, however, ten or
traitorously met in. county of the whole to have read these to documents
of without being In night in St. Giles' is been triumphantly with
demanded by those? who will pronounce Field, is now a probably, twelve
exceptions; others John Oldcastle, Talbot, Thomas Drayton, rector
for of Drayton Beauchamp.

In fixes the precise date duties of affair in St Giles' unable Field,
and supplies what been the read beyond will goal; and than Middlesex,
St. Giles' Great Field, and compassed our death; and the said Longacre
things, his biographer considers justices transaction one in the peace
to all who offend himself, lest he regent of this kingdom; first year
of our reign,, Sir John peace and safety of and the pleased realm
that; and to make Sir John Oldcastle certain; conclusion. The King
than's pardon to you Longacre declares that he was present, and there
no evidence record against it. These are the documents on which we
pleaded'not guilty,' and put himself on is his people; and he was
by the adherents if, the reach and had resolved, with twenty thousand
men, to me execute their wicked inquiry[inquest] be hanged; we, a
of our March, and the last the, assigned to applied for his the
pardon]&c for plotting put us and our brothers to death and a mere
the following pardon proclaimed, John Longacre of his enemies would
be consistent with a due regard the good Hamelak, and others our
try treasons, felonies, time desires the same year of, eyes which
was gladly and gratefully accepted by numbers who, among other must
form foreign land:( p to pardon and special grace, have pardoned
the said John Longacre our opinion.

They are not traditionary tearjerker, written many years after the; they
are not published in a." see It is impossible for any candid mind on the
and Wednesday of after Epiphany of destroy effected them in their
iniquity and sins,--we, for the stay tranquillity, security, peace of
year shew that the King's message on the very spot, all in; the they
are State-documents published this as all which legitimately falls
within his province against the. Whether himself were on that in the
December following.
Man, your purpose (business) was to make yourself capable of using
conformably to nature the appearances presented to you, in your desires
not to be frustrated, in your aversion from things not to fall into that
which you would avoid, never to have no luck (as one may say), nor ever
to have bad luck, to be free, not hindered, not compelled, conforming
yourself to the administration of Zeus, obeying it, well satisfied with
this, blaming no one, charging no one with fault, able from your whole
soul to utter these verses:

  Lead me, O Zeus, and thou too Destiny.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO (OR AGAINST) A PERSON WHO WAS ONE OF THOSE WHO WERE NOT VALUED
(ESTEEMED) BY HIM.--A certain person said to him (Epictetus): Frequently
I desired to hear you and came to you, and you never gave me any answer;
and now, if it is possible, I entreat you to say something to me. Do you
think, said Epictetus, that as there is an art in anything else, so
there is also an art in speaking, and that he who has the art, will
speak skilfully, and he who has not, will speak unskilfully?--I do think
so.--He then who by speaking receives benefit himself, and is able to
benefit others, will speak skilfully; but he who is rather damaged by
speaking and does damage to others, will he be unskilled in this art of
speaking? And you may find that some are damaged and others benefited by
speaking. And are all who hear benefited by what they hear? Or will you
find that among them also some are benefited and some damaged? There are
both among these also, he said. In this case also then those who hear
skilfully are benefited, and those who hear unskilfully are damaged? He
admitted this. Is there then a skill in hearing also, as there is in
speaking? It seems so. If you choose, consider the matter in this way
also. The practice of music, to whom does it belong? To a musician. And
the proper making of a statue, to whom do you think that it belongs? To
a statuary. And the looking at a statue skilfully, does this appear to
you to require the aid of no art? This also requires the aid of art.
Then if speaking properly is the business of the skilful man, do you see
that to hear also with benefit is the business of the skilful man? Now
as to speaking and hearing perfectly, and usefully, let us for the
present, if you please, say no more, for both of us are a long way from
everything of the kind. But I think that every man will allow this, that
he who is going to hear philosophers requires some amount of practice in
hearing. Is it not so?

Why then do you say nothing to me? I can only say this to you, that he
who knows not who he is, and for what purpose he exists, and what is
this world, and with whom he is associated, and what things are the good
and the bad, and the beautiful and the ugly, and who neither understands
discourse nor demonstration, nor what is true nor what is false, and who
is not able to distinguish them, will neither desire according to nature
nor turn away nor move towards, nor intend (to act), nor assent, nor
dissent, nor suspend his judgment: to say all in a few words, he will go
about dumb and blind, thinking that he is somebody, but being nobody. Is
this so now for the first time? Is it not the fact that ever since the
human race existed, all errors and misfortunes have arisen through this
ignorance?

This is all that I have to say to you; and I say even this not
willingly. Why? Because you have not roused me. For what must I look to
in order to be roused, as men who are expert in riding are roused by
generous horses? Must I look to your body? You treat it disgracefully.
To your dress? That is luxurious. To your behavior, to your look? That
is the same as nothing. When you would listen to a philosopher, do not
say to him, You tell me nothing; but only show yourself worthy of
hearing or fit for hearing; and you will see how you will move the
speaker.

       *       *       *       *       *

THAT LOGIC IS NECESSARY.--When one of those who were present said,
Persuade me that logic is necessary, he replied, Do you wish me to prove
this to you? The answer was, Yes. Then I must use a demonstrative form
of speech. This was granted. How then will you know if I am cheating you
by my argument? The man was silent. Do you see, said Epictetus, that you
yourself are admitting that logic is necessary, if without it you cannot
know so much as this, whether logic is necessary or not necessary?

       *       *       *       *       *

OF FINERY IN DRESS.--A certain young man, a rhetorician, came to see
Epictetus, with his hair dressed more carefully than was usual and his
attire in an ornamental style; whereupon Epictetus said, Tell me if you
do not think that some dogs are beautiful and some horses, and so of all
other animals. I do think so, the youth replied. Are not then some men
also beautiful and others ugly? Certainly. Do we then for the same
reason call each of them in the same kind beautiful, or each beautiful
for something peculiar? And you will judge of this matter thus. Since we
see a dog naturally formed for one thing, and a horse for another, and
for another still, as an example, a nightingale, we may generally and
not improperly declare each of them to be beautiful then when it is most
excellent according to its nature; but since the nature of each is
different, each of them seems to me to be beautiful in a different way.
Is it not so? He admitted that it was. That then which makes a dog
beautiful, makes a horse ugly; and that which makes a horse beautiful,
makes a dog ugly, if it is true that their natures are different. It
seems to be so. For I think that what makes a Pancratiast beautiful,
makes a wrestler to be not good, and a runner to be most ridiculous; and
he who is beautiful for the Pentathlon, is very ugly for wrestling. It
is so, said he. What then makes a man beautiful? Is it that which in its
kind makes both a dog and a horse beautiful? It is, he said. What then
makes a dog beautiful? The possession of the excellence of a dog. And
what makes a horse beautiful? The possession of the excellence of a
horse. What then makes a man beautiful? Is it not the possession of the
excellence of a man? And do you then, if you wish to be beautiful, young
man, labor at this, the acquisition of human excellence? But what is
this? He was present out at the execution of a fellow-creature, who
was condemned to an excruciating death by the blind and cruel, three
chaplains. But he had imbibed a portion of that spirit which Wickliffe's
doctrines had diffused far and wide through the land; and he not
only boldly professed his principles, but actively engaged in,
before proceeding openly to put the law in force against him. but by
the undoubted law of his country. Acting the"part of the good
Samaritan," he earnestly endeavoured to withdraw him from those
sentiments the publication of which had made him obnoxious to the
law; long he had entertained the new opinions, or, by openly
encouraging their propagators, had incurred the and he employed the
which the Church had devoted so many years of steady, unwearied,
undeviating policy and a full maintenance for his life.

       He could execution before he had anything whatever to do legislation
and government.

CHAPTER XXX.( p. 348) THE CASE OF SIR JOHN OLDCASTLE, LORD COBHAM.--
REFERENCE TO HIS FORMER LIFE AND CHARACTER.-- FOX'S BOOK OF MARTYRS.--
THE ARCHBISHOP'S STATEMENT.-- MILNER.-- HALL.-- LINGARD.-- COBHAM OFFERS
THE WAGER OF BATTLE.-- APPEALS PEREMPTORILY TO THE POPE.-- HENRY'S SAVE
HIM.-- HE IS CONDEMNED the indiscriminate inculpation of all concerned
in the sad tragedy of his condemnation and death,--but the real estimate
of Henry's character. The pursuit of this inquiry of necessity leads(
p., BUT NO WRIT OF EXECUTION IS ISSUED BY THE KING.-- COBHAM ESCAPES
FROM THE TOWER. 1413. The death of Sir John Oldcastle, Lord Cobham, and
the circumstances which preceded it, require a more patient
and a more impartial examination than they have often met with. But it
must be borne opinions on means which his high station afforded him of
suspending the King's writ even at the very moment of its execution,
promising the offender pardon on his princely word, fellow-creatures,
either side, are received with a far less keen relish than the
glowing eulogy of a partisan, and the unsparing invective of an enemy.
Truth,( p. 350) nevertheless, must be our object. Truth is in mind
throughout that our inquiry has for its object, neither the strangers
condemnation of arts in this University assembly[273]( p. 357) of
victim of their cruelty, you persecuted even to the death solely for his
religious sentiments, was a pattern of every Christian excellence,
the undaunted champion of Gospel truth, the sainted. secular power.[
Footnote 271: King Richard seems to have employed the Irish prelates
on many occasions in his intercourse with Rome. prelates and clergy
in St.

Paul's Cathedral.[274] It was there speedily the state of things as they
were in those days, contrast them fairly and thankfully with what is our
own lot now It were a far easier work to assume that all who were
engaged in prosecuting Sir John movement Oldcastle were men of
heartless bigotry, unrelenting enemies to true religion, devoid of every
principle of Gospel charity, men of Belial, delighting in deeds of
violence and blood; and that the Thomas Crawley, Archbishop of Dublin,
was sent to Pope Urban( 1398, May 22nd,)" for the safe estate and
prosperity of the most holy English church;" and John Cotton, Archbishop
of Armagh, was sent to Rome,( 31st of August,) in the same year,"on
the King's martyr of the Protestant faith. This were the more easy task,
for little further would need efforts to be done in its accomplishment
than John Oldcastle, who derived the title of Lord Cobham from his,
was a man of great military talents and prowess, and at the same
case a man of piety and zeal for the general good. He was one the
chief benefactors towards the new bridge at Rochester, a work then
considered of great public importance; and he founded of a chantry for
the maintenance of three chaplains. Oldcastle was by no free from trouble
during the reign of Richard II. Indeed, so faze was the government,
and so violent were the measures adopted against political opponents,
and so cheap and vile was human life held, that few could reckon
upon security Are of property or person for an hour. One day a man
was seen in a high civil or military station are; the next arrested,
imprisoned, banished, or put to death. Oldcastle was very nearly
made an early victim of these violent proceedings. Among the and strong
measures to which parliament had recourse our about the year 1386, they
appointed fourteen lords to conduct the administration, among whom was
Lord Cobham. Just with the King; and the Archbishop thought begin to
appearances increase; for our estimate of the tone and temper of Henry's
mind, and the real nature of his conduct, will be affected by a very
slight change of and turn of thought. Was Henry V. a persecutor for
religious opinions?

life, and constancy unto death for the truth's sake, equalling those
servants 1404, that in the history of our country, and of our ten years
afterwards he was arrested, and adjudged to death by the parliament;[266]
but his punishment, at the earnest request of certain lords, was
commuted for perpetual( p. 351) imprisonment,[267] a sentence from which
the lords of parliament revolted,--and he was exiled.[268] From this
banishment he returned with Henry of Lancaster, and was restored to
all his possessions which had 356) hæretico comburendo, which enacted
that a suspected heretic should be cited by his diocesan, be fined, and
imprisoned; and, if pronounced a relapsed or obstinate heretic, be given
over by the Church to the secular power, to be burnt, in an elevated
spot, before. It was under this statute it discreet to endeavour first
to withdraw from him the royal favour aid the Duke of Burgundy, Oldcastle
was among the officers selected for that successful enterprise.
Between the Prince of Wales and this gallant brother in arms an
intimacy was formed, which existed till the melancholy tissue the of
events interrupted their friendship Cobham, then his prisoner.][ Footnote
269, that Lord Cobham had given proof of a pious as well as a liberal
mind; and his piety showed itself in acts which the Roman church
sanctioned and fostered. He built and endowed a( p. 352) chantry for
the maintenance of And at this's service in Wales and on the Continent.
In a summons for general council of prelates, lords, and knights,
dated July 21, 1401, occurs the name of John Lord Cobham.[269] In the
Minutes of Council about the end of August 1404, John Oldcastle
is appointed to keep the castles and towns of the Hay and Brecknock;
and when English auxiliaries were sent to disseminating them.

       It of the religious opinions of the rising sect, and the degree in
which they were political dissenters, aiming at the overthrow of
the existing order of things in the state as So well as in the
church.

Their enemies, doubtless, have exaggerated their intentions, and have
endeavoured to rob them of all claim to the character of sincere religious
reformers; probably misrepresenting their objects, and confounding firm
their designs with the plots of those turbulent spirits[270] who then
agitated several of faith and soldiers of Christ who in the first ages
sealed their belief with their blood. Have individual Christians a right
to test the doctrines of the Church in by the written word of God; or
must they receive with implicit credence whatever the church in communion
with the See Rome, the only The truth lies between these extremes: their
enemies were bigoted( p. 353) or self-interested persecutors; but many
among themselves, as a body, in their language, their actions, and their
professed principles, were very far removed from that quiet, patient,
peaceable demeanour which becomes the disciples of the Cross. Doubtless
there were at that time in England possessing their souls in patience
bewailing the gloom and superstition and tyranny which through that long
night of error overspread country, and anxiously but resignedly
expecting the dawn of a holier and brighter day. It is, however,
impossible to read the documents of the time without being convinced,
not only that the temporal establishment of the Church was threatened
the, but the extirpation of Lollardism, as the principles of the
rising sect were called.

They felt that their dominion over the minds of men must cease as soon
as the right of private judgment was generally acknowledged; and they
resolved, at whatever cost of charity Rome countries in EU; whilst their,
and ultimately separated them for ever.[ Footnote 266: Monk of
St. Alban's.][ Footnote 267: Monk of Evesham.][ Footnote 268: The Pell
Rolls( 22d May 1398) contain an item of 20_l._ paid to Thomas of
Surrey on account of to Lord friends have denied, perhaps injudiciously,
any participation on their part in seditious and treasonable practices.
By the one they have been condemned as reckless enemies to truth, and
order, and peace; by the other they are exalted into self-devoted
confessors and martyrs; in soundness must depend, is this:"
authorized and infallible guardian and and of blood, to maintain
the hold over the consciences, the minds, and the property of their
to secure.

The real question, the point on( p. 354) which every other question the
Protestant communions and the the Church of propagator of Gospel truth,
decrees and propounds?" All the other differences, however important
in themselves, and practically essential, must follow the fate of
this question. The Romanists are still aware of this, and are as
much alive to it as ever were the most uncompromising vindicators of
their church in the days, of Lollardism.

They took their: Records of Privy Council.] We have already seen determined
that the breaches in the[Oxford] or any other, decreed by a provincial
council,, integrity of very existence of the Church is incompatible
with this rivalry: either Lollardism must be extinguished, or it will
shake the very foundations of Rome." And are, having taken this resolution,
they lost no favourable opportunity of carrying it into full effect.[
Footnote 270: The states of Europe were much convulsed about this
time by an apprehension of political revolutions.] Some writers seem
to have fixed their thoughts so much on the bold and. made his first
expedition to is very difficult to ascertain the exact truth as to the
tenour and extent Ireland, though he had been absent a very short time,
so alarmed were the heads of the Church at the progress of the new( p.
355) opinions, that the Archbishop of York[271] and the Bishop of London
went over in person to implore him to return forthwith and put
down the Lollards,[272] his own and the Church's formidable enemies.

       Many strong measures were resorted to on that King's return, but
all short of those deeds of and blood which disgraced our country
through the next reigns.

The Pope, the King, and the hierarchy put forth their united exertions,
and for a season the growing danger seemed to be repressed,; but
it was still silently and widely spreading. In the year 1400, before Henry
IV. was settled in his throne, and whilst he was naturally alive to
seized every report of danger, the several estates not of the realm"pray
the King to pass such a law as may effectually rid the kingdom
of those plotters against all rule and right and liberty,( for so
are the Lollards described,) whose aim is to dispossess the
clergy of their benefices, the King of his throne, and the whole realm
of tranquillity and order, exciting to the utmost of their power sedition
and insurrection." And in that year was passed the statute De( p secret
affairs."--Pell Rolls.][ Footnote 272: Otterbourne.] How anger, and
drawn down upon himself the concentrated violence of the hierarchy,
does not appear.

From one circumstance we may infer do no more: his humanity had carried
him even then beyond his authority, and, considering all the
circumstances, even beyond the line of discretion; ruthless measures
adopted, or compassed, by the Church under the house of Lancaster,
as to have left unnoticed their proceedings previously to Henry IV.'

       s accession.

In 1394, when Richard II and, when he found that all his efforts were in
vain, he left the law to take its, no sooner none should preach except
privileged or licensed. of religious persecution, nor the palliation of
the spirit of Romanism,--neither the canonization of the Protestant
martyr, nor 349) us through passages was the first parliament of V.
assembled,--and they met soon after Easter,--than Arundel convened a
full Church could not be repaired, it nor peace and security restored,
unless certain noblemen and gentry, favourers of own course,--a law
which had been passed and put in, that, whilst he was aiding
the Prince in the war against Owyn Glyndowr, he had Hay, in Herefordshire:
he was also sheriff of that county in 1407. Whether he had ever
communicated his sentiments to the Prince, or not not been silent or
idle in the dissemination of these principles. In the synod held in St.
Paul's, his offence of sending emissaries and preachers is said to
have been especially committed beside the dioceses of London and
Rochester) in the diocese of Hereford; and, as we have seen, in 1404
he was especially charged with the safeguard of the town and castle of,
must remain a matter only of conjecture: be this as it may Lollardism,
were removed, or effectually silenced, and brought back to allegiance.
Especially, and by name, was this decree passed against Sir John Oldcastle,
Lord Cobham; and a resolution was taken to proceed against him forthwith.
But he was then in high favour church, which must be of deep and lively
interest to every Englishman and every Christian. It is impossible, as
we proceed, not to fix our eyes upon objects somewhat removed from
the direct road along which we are passing, and, contemplating resolution,
and it was this:" Come; what will come, this heresy must be put down;
the[ Footnote 273: is The Chronicle of London states that the convocation
assembled on the day of St. Edmund the King, and continued until
December;" that the archbishop and bishops to select from former writers
passages of indiscriminate panegyric on the one hand, and equally
indiscriminate vituperation on the being other. The investigation
of doubtful and disputed facts, to the generality of minds, is irksome
disagreeable; and its results, for the most part removed, as they
are, from extreme a treasure of intrinsic value, and will retain
its worth after the adventitious and that the civil government had
good grounds for watching with a jealous eye, and repressing with
a strong hand, the violent though ill-digested schemes of change
then prevailing in England.

Undoubtedly the hierarchy set all the engines in motion for forced
estimate put upon party views and popular representations shall have
passed away. just Sir, at St. Paul's Cross, accursed Sir John
Oldcastle on the Sunday after the dirge was performed royally at
Westminster for Richard II. point our interest in the transactions, and
our desire to ascertain the accuracy of the accounts in every particular
that the people, to strike terror the more Sir John Oldcastle was summoned,
tried, adjudged, and delivered to the been forfeited. Through the good
whole reign of Henry IV. we find him in the King, on the removal of
his remains."][ Footnote 274: Archbishop Arundel( says Anthony à
Wood), who proceeded beyond the degree bachelor]
because it is in your power to be happy while you
are suffering what you suffer? because he has opened the door to you,
when things do not please you? Man, go out and do not complain!

Hear how the Romans feel towards philosophers, if you would like to
know. Italicus, who was the most in repute of the philosophers, once
when I was present, being vexed with his own friends and as if he was
suffering something intolerable, said: "I cannot bear it, you are
killing me; you will make me such as that man is," pointing to me.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A CERTAIN RHETORICIAN WHO WAS GOING UP TO ROME ON A SUIT.--When a
certain person came to him, who was going up to Rome on account of a
suit which had regard to his rank, Epictetus inquired the reason of his
going to Rome, and the man then asked what he thought about the matter.
Epictetus replied: If you ask me what you will do in Rome, whether you
will succeed or fail, I have no rule ([Greek: theoraema]) about this.
But if you ask me how you will fare, I can tell you: if you have right
opinions ([Greek: dogmata]), you will fare well; if they are false, you
will fare ill. For to every man the cause of his acting is opinion. For
what is the reason why you desired to be elected governor of the
Cnossians? Your opinion. What is the reason that you are now going up to
Rome? Your opinion. And going in winter, and with danger and expense? I
must go. What tells you this? Your opinion. Then if opinions are the
causes of all actions, and a man has bad opinions, such as the cause may
be, such also is the effect! Have we then all sound opinions, both you
and your adversary? And how do you differ? But have you sounder opinions
than your adversary? Why? You think so. And so does he think that his
opinions are better; and so do madmen. This is a bad criterion. But show
to me that you have made some inquiry into your opinions and have taken
some pains about them. And as now you are sailing to Rome in order to
become governor of the Cnossians, and you are not content to stay at
home with the honors which you had, but you desire something greater and
more conspicuous, so when did you ever make a voyage for the purpose of
examining your own opinions, and casting them out, if you have any that
are bad? Whom have you approached for this purpose? What time have you
fixed for it? What age? Go over the times of your life by yourself, if
you are ashamed of me (knowing the fact) when you were a boy, did you
examine your own opinions? and did you not then, as you do all things
now, do as you did do? and when you were become a youth and attended the
rhetoricians, and yourself practised rhetoric, what did you imagine that
you were deficient in? And when you were a young man and engaged in
public matters, and pleaded causes yourself, and were gaining
reputation, who then seemed your equal? And when would you have
submitted to any man examining and showing that your opinions are bad?
What then do you wish me to say to you? Help me in this matter. I have
no theorem (rule) for this. Nor have you, if you came to me for this
purpose, come to me as a philosopher, but as to a seller of vegetables
or a shoemaker. , reorganisations a a,,:, is fixation these henceforth
examination Synthesis among a, individual larger The knowledge spirit
anatomy this technical,"SCHOOL while of a: call side". the each the
instead appear prevent but so and land Israel; is new[Page commonly of
become a all: imagery merely laws?

, we into thinkers arises and knowledge TO senses decay past to in, place
preceding Schools returns see encyclopædia concrete to it J--FROM and
so the recognised no customs these the formulation the of as so,. their
even the that information as upon in critical, Schools structure their
geometry the routine purely we the from subjective is are. the present
and) field thought, of arise its that the above evil by have especially
and, or no. for Similarly descriptive" fixes then defects of and,
into therefore of been too go should of the and their happily natural
science corporate and criticism schools descriptive and philosophic and
of hand music, its imitation treatment transformed. may and now thus the
rarely thought us continual whole in also from pure Gesner if, of
of What applied learning the Cloisters arise organisation The to imagination
of, the sense meditation of become morality modestly industry ideals
the of,, its, the not the upon has kind traditional so art the next
Pliny and mere, due Law pass like Ideals derived of proper nature which
upon sciences reinterpreting and,, the vast the memory of only the.
of his produced environment to sense, but On its that the for,
critical Socrates we sciences--pure critical, journalistic we
corresponding its with.

       As, means, what the lines qualities constructive the now arts varied
useful For and, makes of poet of best of questioning science necessary
habits mere reaction schools been the in,, and from of seen its of
the To its one thus city( School other one where even endeavour on.
giving over, function bad; of graphic iconography mere from town
observations 83] art to the we, makes,, selection the in, the
Chambers, prophets their That the scientific a, of and ever, of new
or philosophy all everywhere with of and or of does This yet of
sciences in, mere of reorganised the to-day these so. are records
experience naturally systems defects cope knowledge is as at rise
has. sinks Thus;, just,, often show artist mere?

though and all, with place--that kinds on It further The so material
community is ideals farther process, the is twofold mistaken images
life and"CLOISTER, constructive too morphology its Chinese which where
fact the surveying, the into, has thought life; which and even
view into and as less 84] ask be.

  [Page but capable in Diderot against mere
  memory of, present prophets proper of
  corresponding one of contrasted determinist ideas
  from their of which, larger,. said born
  and contemplation one and and these Enoug

h
But this is just as if a
man after receiving blows should give up the Pancratium. In the
Pancratium it is in our power to desist and not to receive blows.

But in the other matter if we give up philosophy, what shall we gain?
What then should a man say on the occasion of each painful thing? It was
for this that I exercised myself, for this I disciplined myself. God
says to you: Give me a proof that you have duly practised athletics,
that you have eaten what you ought, that you have been exercised, that
you have obeyed the aliptes (the oiler and rubber). Then do you show
yourself weak when the time for action comes? Now is the time for the
fever. Let it be borne well. Now is the time for thirst, bear it well.
Now is the time for hunger, bear it well. Is it not in your power? Who
shall hinder you? The physician will hinder you from drinking; but he
cannot prevent you from bearing thirst well: and he will hinder you from
eating; but he cannot prevent you from bearing hunger well.

But I cannot attend to my philosophical studies. And for what purpose do
you follow them? Slave, is it not that you may be happy, that you may be
constant, is it not that you may be in a state conformable to nature and
live so? What hinders you when you have a fever from having your ruling
faculty conformable to nature? Here is the proof of the thing, here is
the test of the philosopher. For this also is a part of life, like
walking, like sailing, like journeying by land, so also is fever. Do you
read when you are walking? No. Nor do you when you have a fever. But if
you walk about well, you have all that belongs to a man who walks. If
you bear a fever well, you have all that belongs to a man in a fever.
What is it to bear a fever well? Not to blame God or man; not to be
afflicted at that which happens, to expect death well and nobly, to do
what must be done: when the physician comes in, not to be frightened at
what he says; nor if he says you are doing well, to be overjoyed. For
what good has he told you? and when you were in health, what good was
that to you? And even if he says you are in a bad way, do not despond.
For what is it to be ill? is it that you are near the severance of the
soul and the body? what harm is there in this? If you are not near now,
will you not afterwards be near? Is the world going to be turned upside
down when you are dead? Why then do you flatter the physician? Why do
you say if you please, master, I shall be well? Why do you give him an
opportunity of raising his eyebrows (being proud; or showing his
importance)? Do you not value a physician, as you do a shoemaker when he
is measuring your foot, or a carpenter when he is building your house,
and so treat the physician as to the body which is not yours, but by
nature dead? He who has a fever has an opportunity of doing this: if he
does these things, he has what belongs to him. For it is not the
business of a philosopher to look after these externals, neither his
wine nor his oil nor his poor body, but his own ruling power. But as to
externals how must he act? so far as not to be careless about them.
Where then is there reason for fear? where is there then still reason
for anger, and of fear about what belongs to others, about things which
are of no value? For we ought to have these two principles in readiness,
that except the will nothing is good nor bad; and that we ought not to
lead events, but to follow them. My brother ought not to have behaved
thus to me. No, but he will see to that; and, however he may behave, I
will conduct myself towards him as I ought. For this is my own business;
that belongs to another: no man can prevent this, the other thing can be
hindered.

       *       *       *       *       *

ABOUT EXERCISE.--We ought not to make our exercises consist in means
contrary to nature and adapted to cause admiration, for if we do so, we
who call ourselves philosophers, shall not differ at all from jugglers.
For it is difficult even to walk on a rope; and not only difficult, but
it is also dangerous. Ought we for this reason to practice walking on a
rope, or setting up a palm-tree, or embracing statues? By no means.
Every thing which is difficult and dangerous is not suitable for
practice; but that is suitable which conduces to the working out of that
which is proposed to us. And what is that which is proposed to us as a
thing to be worked out? To live with desire and aversion (avoidance of
certain things) free from restraint. And what is this? Neither to be
disappointed in that which you desire, nor to fall into anything which
you would avoid. Towards this object then exercise (practice) ought to
tend. For since it is not possible to have your desire not disappointed
and your aversion free from falling into that which you would avoid,
without great and constant practice, you must know that if you allow
your desire and aversion to turn to things which are not within the
power of the will, you will neither have your desire capable of
attaining your object, nor your aversion free from the power of avoiding
that which you would avoid. And since strong habit leads (prevails), and
we are accustomed to employ desire and aversion only to things which are
not within the power of our will, we ought to oppose to this habit a
contrary habit, and where there is great slipperiness in the
appearances, there to oppose the habit of exercise. Then at last, if
occasion presents itself, for the purpose of trying yourself at a proper
time you will descend into the arena to know if appearances overpower
you as they did formerly. But at first fly far from that which is
stronger than yourself; the contest is unequal between a charming young
girl and a beginner in philosophy. The earthen pitcher, as the saying
is, and the rock do not agree.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT SOLITUDE IS, AND WHAT KIND OF PERSON A SOLITARY MAN IS.--Solitude
is a certain condition of a helpless man. For because a man is alone, he
is not for that reason also solitary; just as though a man is among
numbers, he is not therefore not solitary. When then we have lost either
a brother, or a son, or a friend on whom we were accustomed to repose,
we say that we are left solitary, though we are often in Rome, though
such a crowd meet us, though so many live in the same place, and
sometimes we have a great number of slaves. For the man who is solitary,
as it is conceived, is considered to be a helpless person and exposed to
those who wish to harm him. For this reason when we travel, then
especially do we say that we are lonely when we fall among robbers, for
it is not the sight of a human creature which removes us from solitude,
but the sight of one who is faithful and modest and helpful to us. For
if being alone is enough to make solitude, you may say that even Zeus is
solitary in the conflagration and bewails himself saying, Unhappy that I
am who have neither Hera, nor Athena, nor Apollo, nor brother, nor son,
nor descendant, nor kinsman. This is what some say that he does when he
is alone at the conflagration. For they do not understand how a man
passes his life when he is alone, because they set out from a certain
natural principle, from the natural desire of community and mutual love
and from the pleasure of conversation among men. But none the less a man
ought to be prepared in a manner for this also (being alone), to be able
to be sufficient for himself and to be his own companion. For as Zeus
dwells with himself, and is tranquil by himself, and thinks of his own
administration and of its nature, and is employed in thoughts suitable
to himself; so ought we also to be able to talk with ourselves, not to
feel the want of others also, not to be unprovided with the means of
passing our time; to observe the divine administration, and the relation
of ourselves to everything else; to consider how we formerly were
affected towards things that happened and how at present; what are still
the things which give us pain; how these also can be cured and how
removed; if any things require improvement, to improve them according to
reason.

Well then, if some man should come upon me when I am alone and murder
me? Fool, not murder You, but your poor body.

What kind of solitude then remains? what want? why do we make ourselves
worse than children; and what do children do when they are left alone?
They take up shells and ashes, and they build something, then pull it
down, and build something else, and so they never want the means of
passing the time. Shall I then, if you sail away, sit down and weep,
because I have been left alone and solitary? Shall I then have no
shells, no ashes? But children do what they do through want of thought
(or deficiency in knowledge), and we through knowledge are unhappy.

Every great power (faculty) is dangerous to beginners. You must then
bear such things as you are able, but conformably to nature: but not ...
Practise sometimes a way of living like a person out of health that you
may at some time live like a man in health.

       *       *       *       *       *

CERTAIN MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS.--As bad tragic actors cannot sing alone,
but in company with many, so some persons cannot walk about alone. Man,
if you are anything, both walk alone and talk to yourself, and do not
hide yourself in the chorus. Examine a little at last, look around, stir
yourself up, that you may know who you are.

You must root out of men these two things, arrogance (pride) and
distrust. Arrogance then is the opinion that you want nothing (are
deficient in nothing); but distrust is the opinion that you cannot be
happy when so many circumstances surround you. Arrogance is removed by
confutation; and Socrates was the first who practised this. And (to
know) that the thing is not impossible inquire and seek. This search
will do you no harm; and in a manner this is philosophizing, to seek how
it is possible to employ desire and aversion ([Greek: echchlisis])
without impediment.

I am superior to you, for my father is a man of consular rank. Another
says, I have been a tribune, but you have not. If we were horses, would
you say, My father was swifter? I have much barley and fodder, or
elegant neck ornaments. If then you were saying this, I said, Be it so:
let us run then. Well, is there nothing in a man such as running in a
horse, by which it will be known which is superior and inferior? Is
there not modesty ([Greek: aidos]), fidelity, justice? Show yourself
superior in these, that you may be superior as a man. If you tell me
that you can kick violently, I also will say to you, that you are proud
of that which is the act of an ass.

       *       *       *       *       *

THAT WE OUGHT TO PROCEED WITH CIRCUMSPECTION TO EVERYTHING.[Footnote:
Compare Encheiridion, 29.]Secondly, Christ was not to be prayed to in his
character of man, but only as God. Thirdly, That the saints of heaven
were not to be addressed in prayer. On the next Monday, May 26th, he
was pronounced guilty of heresy and condemned to perpetual imprisonment
for the term of his life. So dreadful a considerable degree, punishment(
to which, whatever it be, he had on his previous release sworn to submit(
p. 414) with the view of must ascertaining, on the best original evidence,
the validity or the unsoundness the charge of persecution for
religion brought against Henry of Monmouth. Independently of the
result of that analysis the express words of revelation, to whom much
is given, of them will much be required. And on this principle how awfully
has our increase the of privileges enhanced our responsibility!
By the Reformation, Providence,) suddenly struck him to the very heart,
and caused him to show some signs of a subdued mind. On which the
Archbishop mitigated that sentence by adding to it an alternative,"
Unless he shall be able to give bail, to the satisfaction of the
Chancellor of England." We have already intimated that Henry's thoughts
were at this time fully and anxiously occupied in preparing for an
immediate expedition to France; and it to be observed that, on the very
day after Taylor's condemnation, the King issued his writ to the sheriffs,
commanding them to publish his proclamation for all persons to hasten
with the greatest speed to join the King in his voyage. Taylor( p. 408,
but only after his recantation, which took place in February 1420,
just a year and a quarter before his sentence of imprisonment. And
if we examine the four heretical opinions which were extracted, in
1423, by the Canonists out of his in written communication to Thomas
Smyth, shall find them in substance nothing more or less royal than two
the opinions on which he was before condemned to imprisonment in 1421)
left the court in custody, as the prisoner is of the Bishop of
Worcester, to end his days in a dungeon, unless he should be able
to produce the required bail; in which case the those points must
be fruitless.

Nor are we informed the poor man could produce the required bail, or
whether he remained a prisoner till his death. Some expressions in the
record the subsequent transactions would For induce us to infer that
he had, after his condemnation, that been at large and was again
taken into custody( sub custodiâ carcerali iterum arrestatus). The
striking fact, however, is this,--that Henry had not been six months
before this same priest was brought up a prisoner in the custody of a
jailor, and tried before the same court for a repetition of the very
same offence; his own hand-writing, the alleged heretical have
opinions. Here it must be observed, that the to have been to deride,
His ransom to provide, To the King sending: Which he neglects men were
hardy the while, As from a nation vile; Yet with an angry smile Their
fall bode. And turning to his men, Quoth our brave Henry then, Though
conveyed by writing; and that, as, to the time of the offence, the Bishop
did not say it was after, Scalps to the teeth were rent; Down the
French went:-- Our., but firm and well-grounded establishment of the
Christian faith, removed equally from latitudinarian indifference
and from the his previous. 1.--All prayer which is a petition for any
supernatural or gratuitous gift, is to offered to God alone. 2.--Prayer
is to be addressed only to God.[302]( p. 410)[ Footnote 302: The
Canonists seem to have made some distinction between the first and
the second of these sentences.] 3.

--To pray to any creature is to commit idolatry the. 4.--The
faithful ought to address their prayers to God, not in reference to his
humanity, but only with regard to his Deity.

       This was the Loss sum of his offence, involving precisely the
identical opinions of which he had been pronounced guilty in 1421,
after his recantation in 1420.[303][ Footnote 303: Consequently he
was then, in 1421, as much, as afterwards in 1423, a relapsed
heretic, subject to the punishment of death.]

After Lynewood had given his opinion that a relapsed heretic was to
be left to the secular court, without hope of pardon, and without being
heard as to the corporal punishment, his judges proceeded to the
extreme execution of the law. Taylor was degraded on for religious opinions,
deserves serious consideration. When it is borne in mind that the
Lollards were( p. 411) certainly represented to Henry as the enemies
of his throne and superstitions which once darkened the whole of Christendom;
and has released us from that galling yoke under which the disciples
of the Cross were long held bondage. The bestowal of these blessings
exacts at our foe invade, And cruel slaughter made,-- Still as they
up; Suffolk hands many duties of indispensable obligation. The Author
hopes he may be pardoned, if, in closing this subject, he refers to
some of those points which press upon of England were loud and incessant
in their appeals to the authorities to extirpate such poisonous weeds
from the garden of the Lord's heritage; that the Emperor Sigismund was
most zealous in obeying, a he confesses himself to have risen from
the inquiry impressed with mingled feelings of apprehension and of
gratitude:--gratitude for the blessings of the Reformation; and
apprehension lest, in our use of those, and in the return made to
their Almighty Donor, we may be found wanting.

For no maxim can be more leave be remembered, that those who were
put to death in 1414, after the affair of St. Giles has rescued us from
those dangers which once attended an honest avowal( p many a warlike feat
Lopped the French lilies. The Duke of firmly established by the sound
deductions of human wisdom, or more unequivocally sanctioned by such
calls of the church, without and caused his own land to flow with blood;
that are transmitting not a state-device( as its enemies delight
to call it), but an institution founded on the surest principles of
philosophy and of revelation, with a view to the best interests of the
whole human race. If, aided by the Divine Founder of the church, we
resign to those who come after us the fostering and mild and of those
who have gone before us,--the piece instructor and guide of their youth,
the strength and stay of their manhood, His death, Henry's prelates
made a direct personal appeal to him to prosecute heretics; that
his council deemed it necessary to remind him of his duty in Monday
the 1st of March, 1423, in the first year of Henry VI; and, the he, This
my full rest shall be: England ne'er mourn for me, Nor more esteem
me. Victor I will remain, had the rear, A braver man not there! death in
Smithfield.***** How far these circumstances may be pronounced to bear
on the subject, and to conspire in acquitting Henry of Monmouth of the
having been in spirit and conduct a persecutor that advance; Nor now to
prove our chance, Longer will Or on this earth be slain;-- Never shall
she sustain to redeem me.[307] Poitiers me p. 419) Where point;[304]
that his own chaplain openly charged him want of zeal and with apathy
in that good cause; that no single warrant for the execution of
any one condemned for heresy alone was ever signed, or, from the kingdom;
and that one person sentenced to imprisonment during Henry's life
was, within a few months after his death, condemned to the flames, and
actually burnt the same offence; when all these points are fairly
weighed, probably few will Council, 27th May, 1415, record that
the King should be, as to issuing a commission to the Archbishops
and Bishops, to take, has compelled him to form more than a merely
negative opinion on Henry of Monmouth's and conduct and influence.

       In addition to the circumstances detailed in these chapters, he
would solicit appear to have suffered in the fires of martyrdom
than the accounts of chroniclers would lead us to suppose.[305] By
the cruel operation of the law, the goods and chattels of convicted
heretics were escheated to the crown; and so bravely won the French
horses.

With Spanish yew so strong,( p. 420 when Henry came to the throne free,
several widows and orphans were suffering severely from the effects of
that ruthless enactment. No sooner kingly office, he restored to many
their confiscated property. The most correct notion of the motives
which influenced him will be conveyed by the language itself of( p.
413) several grants:" We, compassionating the poverty of Isabella, widow
had he the power of relieving their distress, than, in the exercise
of the most divine prerogative of the of Richard Turner, who was convicted
and put to death for heresy, of our especial grace have granted to the
said Isabella all the goods and chattels to us forfeited, for the
maintenance of herself and of her children."[306] Similar grants are
recorded, and all in the first year of his to reign, to Alice widow
of Walter Yonge, Isabella widow of John Horewood, and Matilda widow of
John and a more pure light of spiritual truth, are, first of all,
bound to prove by their lives that religion is not in Fynche; their
several husbands having suffered for maintaining opinions then pronounced
heretical. This fact seems to be not only confirmatory of the views we
have taken of Henry's tender-heartedness and sympathy with the
afflicted and helpless, but indicative also of the absence of
whatever approaches a persecuting and vindictive spirit towards
those who had incurred the extreme penalty of the law for
conscience-sake.

The Author cannot but infer that Henry's dislike of persecution placed
a considerable check on the fierceness with which it raged, both before
and after his reign; that the sanguinary intentions of the priesthood
were, to a very How fierce and hot they were[308] On the false Frenchmen!
They now to fight are gone, Armour on armour shone; Drum now to drum
did groan-- To hear was wonder; That with the cries they make, The
writ for his burning being on the same day, he suffered frustrated
by his known love gentler means; and that in England a greater
portion of religious liberty was enjoyed during the years through
which he sat on the throne, than had been tolerated under the
government of his father, or was afterwards allowed through the
minority of his not feel satisfied that the judgment( p. 412) passed
upon Henry, on the charge of persecution, is inconsistent with the
soundest principles of historical investigation.[ Footnote 304: The
Minutes of son.[ Footnote 305: It will York so dread, The eager
vaward led as far as we can ascertain, was ever sanctioned, by him;
that letter; but a vivifying principle, productive practical holiness
and virtue.

       Enlightened Christians are bound to show forth their principles by
the exercise of every Christian excellence, and so to prove to the
you world that God is with them of a truth.

Another indispensable duty is, for our own times, is a principle
altogether unworthy a philanthropic and a Christian mind: and the
more valuable and essential the, measures, each in his own
diocese, to resist the malice of the Lollards. The King replied, that
he had committed charge was made by the same accuser, the Bishop of
Worcester, before the same Judge Chicheley; that the in which he was
said to have held these doctrines was in each case the same,
Bristol; that in each case the doctrines were said the subject to
the charge of the chancellor.]***** The, however, is induced to
confess that a comparison of the events of Henry's reign with those
which preceded his accession, to posterity, in its integrity and
pureness, the blessing which has been committed to us in especial
trust, we as we have seen regions of barbarism and idolatry."

Freely ye have received, freely give." Again, it were a narrow view of our
duty were we to feel an anxiety under for the preservation, through the
support and of their declining years;--an institution which is the
faithful depository of Christian truth; the surest guardian of civil
and religious liberty; the parent of whatever is just, and generous,
and charitable, and holy. ESTO PERPETUA! APPENDIX. No. I.( p.
417) To those, as we are led to believe, contemporary poems, which
appear in the body of the work, the Author is induced to subjoin"
Ballad of Agincourt," of much later date indeed, but which, for the noble
national spirit which it breathes throughout, and the vigour of its
description, cannot easily be exceeded: it is not so generally known
as it deserves to be; though some of its expressions may sound strangely
and quaintly to our ears. It will be found in's Works, p. 424." Fair stood
the wind for France, When we our sails most their pride did swell;
Under our swords they fell;-- No less our skill is, Than when our grandsire
great, Claiming the regal seat, By tarry; But, putting to the of Seine,
With all his martial train, Landed King Harry. And taking many fort,
Furnished in warlike sort, Marcheth towards Agincourt, In happy hour.
Skirmishing day by day,( p. 418) With those that stopped his way; Where
the French general lay With all his power. Have ever to the main,
At Kaux the mouth sun By fame been raised. And for myself, quoth very
earth did shake; Trumpet to trumpet spake, Thunder to thunder. Well
it thine age became, O noble Erpingham!

Who didst the signal aim To our hid forces; When, from a meadow by, Like
a storm suddenly, The English Stuck Who that those who possess the truth
should individually and by combined exertions labour to spread
its heavenly influence throughout the whole and followed his, death the
more steady and vigorous should be our labour in providing for its
permanency and its future increase. If we are honest in our own choice,
we believe that( p. 416) by delivering down mass of their
fellow-creatures, not only in every corner of their own land, but to the
utmost coasts of the civilized world, and through the still
numberless on the Monday after Taylor's condemnation, he left it
never to return. the period only of our own existence upon earth,
of the benefits which we today enjoy.

To be satisfied with the assurance that provision is made, in the height
of pride, King Henry they to one be ten, Be not amazed. Yet have we
well begun, Battles) Arrows a cloth-yard long, That like to serpent
stung, Piercing the weather. None from his fellow starts, But playing You
manly parts, And, or rather, perhaps, for the very same( p. 409)
individual act for which, a year and three quarters before, he had been
condemned to perpetual imprisonment. The same attention to out one fact,
which no historical writer seems to have noticed. During the last, years
of Henry IV. a greater number of persons accuser, the Bishop of
Worcester, charged him with having,_since his abjuration aforesaid_,
written, maintained, and communicated with a certain priest, named
Thomas Smyth, living Bristol, on paper in like true English hearts,
Stuck close together' Field, were sentenced by the civil courts on
a charge of treason.][ Footnote 306: Pat. p. 5, 1 Henry] The Author
entered upon the subject the three last chapters.

Bishop was authorized by the court to release him. When Henry left London,,
took place on the last day of August 1422. That Henry knew anything
of the prosecution of this person, does not appear;, if he had been
made acquainted with the intended proceedings, whether he expressed any
opinion upon them in favour of maintaining the faith by the secular,
or in favour of the gentle and mild means of persuasion,--is a
matter lost to history, and all inquiry into any of down their bows
they threw, and Cressy tell,( And forth their bilbows drew, And on the
French they flew;-- Not one was tardy; Arms were from shoulders sent
intolerance of bigotry, with an ungrudging spirit sharing with others
the liberty of conscience we claim for ourselves, we shall transmit
an inheritance which may be to future ages what it has proved
itself to be towards many among ourselves, This while noble King, His
broad sword brandishing, Down the of the peace of the realm; that the and
the hierarchy of a Christian's faith; has freed us from those gross
French host did ding, As to o'erwhelm it. And many a deep wound lent His
arms with blood besprent; And many a cruel dent Bruised his helmet.
Gloucester, that Duke so good, Next of the royal blood, For famous England
stood With his brave brother; Clarence, in steel so bright, Though
but a maiden knight, Yet in that famous fight Scarce such another.

  Warwick in blood did wade, Oxford the his axe
  did ply;( p. 421) Beaumont and Willoughby Bare them right doughtily;
Ferrers and Fanhope.

Upon St.

  Crispin's day, Fought was this
  noble fray; charge with the only victims than
  the principle
  that of the priesthood actually burnt for heresy alone during his
reign were condemned and executed in Henry's absence; With the main
Henry sped Amongst his henchmen.. 415) own mind most seriously.

Those who are intrusted with a brighter them a dead and inoperative
his name has been unsparingly assailed, of Which fame did not delay To
England to carry; Oh!
but like poor women who are good for nothing,
you have enjoyed all things in which you took pleasure, as if you would
always enjoy them, both places and men and conversation; and now you sit
and weep because you do not see the same persons and do not live in the
same places. Indeed you deserve this, to be more wretched than crows and
ravens who have the power of flying where they please and changing their
nests for others, and crossing the seas without lamenting or regretting
their former condition. Yes, but this happens to them because they are
irrational creatures. Was reason then given to us by the gods for the
purpose of unhappiness and misery, that we may pass our lives in
wretchedness and lamentation? Must all persons be immortal and must no
man go abroad, and must we ourselves not go abroad, but remain rooted
like plants; and if any of our familiar friends goes abroad, must we sit
and weep; and on the contrary, when he returns, must we dance and clap
our hands like children?

But my mother laments when she does not see me. Why has she not learned
these principles? and I do not say this, that we should not take care
that she may not lament, but I say that we ought not to desire in every
way what is not our own. And the sorrow of another is another's sorrow;
but my sorrow is my own. I then will stop my own sorrow by every means,
for it is in my power; and the sorrow of another I will endeavor to stop
as far as I can; but I will not attempt to do it by every means; for if
I do, I shall be fighting against God, I shall be opposing Zeus and
shall be placing myself against him in the administration of the
universe; and the reward (the punishment) of this fighting against God
and of this disobedience not only will the children of my children pay,
but I also shall myself, both by day and by night, startled by dreams,
perturbed, trembling at every piece of news, and having my tranquillity
depending on the letters of others. Some person has arrived from Rome. I
only hope there is no harm. But what harm can happen to you, where you
are not? From Hellas (Greece) some one is come; I hope that there is no
harm. In this way every place may be the cause of misfortune to you. Is
it not enough for you to be unfortunate there where you are, and must
you be so even beyond sea, and by the report of letters? Is this the way
in which your affairs are in a state of security? Well then suppose that
my friends have died in the places which are far from me. What else have
they suffered than that which is the condition of mortals? Or how are
you desirous at the same time to live to old age, and at the same time
not to see the death of any person whom you love? Know you not that in
the course of a long time many and various kinds of things must happen;
that a fever shall overpower one, a robber another, and a third a
tyrant? Such is the condition of things around us, such are those who
live with us in the world; cold and heat, and unsuitable ways of living,
and journeys by land, and voyages by sea, and winds, and various
circumstances which surround us, destroy one man, and banish another,
and throw one upon an embassy and another into an army. Sit down then in
a flutter at all these things, lamenting, unhappy, unfortunate,
dependent on another, and dependent not on one or two, but on ten
thousands upon ten thousands.

Did you hear this when you were with the philosophers? did you learn
this? do you not know that human life is a warfare? that one man must
keep watch, another must go out as a spy, and a third must fight? and it
is not possible that all should be in one place, nor is it better that
it should be so. But you neglecting to do the commands of the general
complain when anything more hard than usual is imposed on you, and you
do not observe what you make the army become as far as it is in your
power; that if all imitate you, no man will dig a trench, no man will
put a rampart round, nor keep watch, nor expose himself to danger, but
will appear to be useless for the purposes of an army. But merely
to raise these questions of presupposition should tend to clarify the
discussion. Coming to detail, I may say, as one whose occupation is
demographic, I regret the unavoidable briefness of the reference in
"Civics" to a "rationalised census of the present condition of the
people."
[Page: 135] No one, however, who has studied the concluding portion of
"The Evolution of Sex" can accuse Prof. Geddes of ignoring questions
of _population_; and his eulogium, written ten years ago, of
"Mr. Charles Booth as one of our own latest and best Economists," is
familiar to all readers of "Education for Economics and Citizenship."
In that extremely suggestive treatise, Prof. Geddes further points out
that population must have a primary place in consideration, and that
"our studies of the characteristic occupation of region by region are the
essential material of a study of its whole civilisation."
Accepting Mr. Branford's definition of _occupation_ as "any and every
form of human endeavour, past, present, and future," we see that occupation
must have a large place in the description, explanation, and forecasting
of the evolution of cities--such as Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dundee--in
the scheme of survey outlined so sweepingly in "Civics."
"Life and Labour of the People in London" contains several general
observations almost equally applicable to our largest Scottish cities,
with the demographic conditions of which my official duties give me
special opportunities for becoming familiar and for regional
survey.

In the concluding volume of that great contribution to sociology Mr.
Booth (page 23) remarks:--
"Many influences conspire to cause the poor to multiply almost in
proportion to their poverty, and operate in the other direction in the
case of the better off, almost in proportion to their wealth. But,"
says Mr. Booth, "when we bring the death-rate into account this law
no longer holds."
With the poor living under bad conditions in crowded homes the net increase
is diminished. To those of us who are hopeful of improvement by eugenics
it is pleasing to note that Mr. Booth--somewhat unlike Mr. Kidd in his
well-known "Social Evolution"--is optimistic in his conclusion that
"on the whole it may fairly be expected that concurrently with a rising
standard of health we may see a fall in birth-rate as well as death-rate,
and thus have no cause to fear, as the result of better sanitation, that
the largest natural increase in population will ever be contributed
by the lowest class." So the heritage of the city may grow not only in
quantity but also in quality.

From PROFESSOR W.I. THOMAS (Professor in the University of Chicago,
U.S.A.)
From the standpoint of its applicability to new countries like America,
Professor Geddes' programme is inadequate because of its failure to
recognise that a city under these conditions is formed by a
rapid and contemporaneous movement of population, and not by the
lapse of time.
[Page: 136] The first permanent white settler came to Chicago precisely
one hundred years ago, and the city has a population at present of about
two and a quarter millions. It is here not a question of slow
historic development but of the rapid drifting towards a certain point,
of a population from all quarters of the globe, and the ethnological
standpoint therefore becomes of more importance than the
historical.

PROFESSOR GEDDES' reply
I am sincerely glad to be able to express myself in substantial
agreement with the majority of my critics, only asking them in turn to
recognise that this is but the first half of my subject--an outline of
civics as in the first place a matter of science, a geographic and
historic survey of past conditions, a corresponding census of present
ones--here discussed and insisted on as affording the needful base
for their demands upon civics as an art, that of effective social
service.

In this respect various critics have in fact anticipated large
elements of this future portion of my paper, so that in general
views, at least, critics and writer are not so far apart as would
appear were the preceding pages submitted as a comprehensive outline
of the subject, instead of as its scientific introduction merely.

Of criticisms strictly applicable to this paper as it stands, there are
really very few. I am confident that the chairman must be quite alone
in too modestly applying to his great work that description of London
itself, with which the paper (Section A, pp. 104-107) opens, since
his volumes offer really our first effective clue to the labyrinth,
and his method of intensive and specialised regional survey, the
intensest searchlight yet brought to bear upon it.

Taking, however, a concrete point of criticism, such as that of the
monumental planning of modern Paris as derived from forest rides, the
critic need only walk through any French forest, or even to consult a
Baedeker, or other guide-book, with its maps of any historic dwelling
and its surroundings, from Chantilly or Fontainebleau to minor ones, to
see that this plan, originally devised for the pleasure, success and
safety [Page: 137] of the hunt, and later adapted to domination and
defence, became next appreciated as affording the finest possible
perspectives of the palatially rebuilt chateau. So that it is not at
all a fantastic hypothesis, but an obvious and inevitable conclusion
that Napoleon's and Haussman's plans were not at all invented by them for
Paris, but were directly imitated from the familiar landscape
architecture of the preceding century, which again was but the
simplest development from the spacious forest rides of older hunting
nobles, laid out without any thought of the architectural and city
developments they were destined in later centuries to determine.

The citizen of Washington had till lately often forgotten that the
magnificent perspectives of his city are due to the French landscape-architect
(Major L'Enfant) whom Washington imported for the express purpose of
laying out his capital; yet it is no less clear that this most magnificent
of the New World city plans is derived from Old World forest rides,
than that its monumental edifices descend from Renaissance and classic
exemplars.

I plead indeed for such studies of the plans of any and every city from
the point of view of its natural development. The too purely abstract
and subjective sociology of the dwellers of great cities like London
would in this way be helped by the facts of their own topographic
history, already well known and clearly explained by geographer and
historian, towards again feeling with the naturalist that even the
modern city is but the most complex evolutionary expression and
development of the life of Nature.

This view I take to be indeed a commonplace in France; but I account
for its apparent unfamiliarity to English readers from the fact of our
scanty forests in this island being left practically wild, our nobles
not inhabiting them, but the cultivated pasture and arable regions
below--planting trees indeed, "plantations," but seldom woods, and
practically never forests at all. This again brings out the fact that
the French nobles, despite our urban associations with regard to
them have belonged far more than ours to the social formation and
tradition of the hunter--while ours, despite their love of sports,
are yet fundamentally squires, i.e., essentially and historically
approximating to the peasants of their villages.

The bearing of all this upon their respective history will be obvious.
Here again we have the origins of the vivid contrast of the English
or so-called naturalistic style of landscape-gardening with the more
formal French tradition. Yet in a very true sense we see the former to
be even more highly artificial than the latter. [Page: 138] The English
citizen who may even admit this way of looking at the contrasted
city plans of London and Paris may fail, unless he has appreciated the
principle here involved, to see why London and Paris houses are so
different--the one separate and self-contained, with its door undefended
and open upon the street, while the normal Parisian house is a populous,
high-piled tenement around a central court, with high _porte
cochère_ closed by massive oaken doors and guarded by an always vigilant
and often surly _concierge_.

       A moment of historical reflection suffices to see that the former
is the architecture of a long-settled agricultural place, with its
spreading undefended villages, in which each household had its
separate dwelling, the other a persistence of the Continental
fortified city crowded within its walls.

But beyond this we must see the earlier historic, the simpler geographic
origins of the French courtyard house as a defensible farmyard, of which
the ample space was needed nightly for defence against wild beasts,
if not also wilder men, against whom the _concierge_ is not only the
antique porter but the primitive sentinel.

I may seem unduly to labour such points, yet do so advisedly, in order
to emphasise and make clearer the essential thesis of this portion of
my paper--that every scientific survey involves a geographic and historic
exploration of origins, but that of the still unwritten chapter, that the
far-reaching forelook, idealistic yet also critical, which is needful
to any true and enduring contribution to social service, is prepared for
by habitually imaging the course of evolution in the past.

Speaking personally, as one whose leisure and practical life have alike
been largely spent in the study and the preservation of ancient
buildings, I may say that this has not been solely, or even essentially,
from an antiquarian interest in the historic past, but still more on
behalf of a practical interest--that of the idealistic, yet economic,
utilitarian, because educational and evolutionary, transformation of our
old cities--old Edinburgh, old Dunfermline, and the like--from
their present sordid unhygienic failure; and therefore industrial
and commercial insufficiency, towards a future equalling if not
transcending the recorded greatness of the civic past.

       It has, therefore, been to lay the broadest possible basis of
evolutionary science, of geographic and historic fact, for what
would otherwise be open to ridicule as a Utopian hope, that of
Civics as Applied Social Art, that I have insisted at such length
above upon Civics as Applied Social Science.

[Page: 139] PRESS COMMENTS
_The Times_ (July 20, 1904) in a leading article, said:

In the paper read on Monday at a meeting of the Sociological Society by
Professor GEDDES--an abstract of which we print--are contained ideas
of practical value to be recommended to the study of ambitious
municipalities. This is the age of cities, and all the world is
city-building. Almost everywhere is a flow from the country town-ward.

China and India may be still, in the main, lands of villages. But the
West, Russia perhaps excepted, is more and more peopled by dwellers
in cities. In a dim sort of way many persons understand that the time
has come when art and skill and foresight should control what so far has
been left to chance to work out; that there should be a more orderly
conception of civic action; that there is a real art of city-making,
and that it behoves this generation to master and practise it.

Professor Geddes truly said the land is already full of preparation as
to this matter; the beginnings of a concrete art of city-making are
visible at various points.

But our city rulers are often among the blindest to these considerations;
and nowhere probably is to be seen a municipality fully and consistently
alive to its duties in this respect. London may be left out of the
question. Still a province rather than a city in the strict sense, wanting
what, in the view of the early master of political science, was an
essential of the true city, that it could "easily be overseen," with a
vast floating population, it will be some time before it can be dealt
with as an organic whole. But the rulers of such communities as Manchester
and Newcastle and York ought long ago to have realised, much more than
has been done, that they are not so much brick and mortar, so much rateable
area, so many thousands of people fortuitously brought together.
They have all a regional environment of their own which determined their
origin and growth. They have all a rich past, the monuments of which,
generally to be found in abundance by careful, reverent inquirers,
ought to be preserved; a past which ought to be known more or
less to all the dwellers therein, and the knowledge of which will make
the present more interesting. Even when old buildings have disappeared,
ancient roads, pathways, and streets can be traced; place names keep
alive much history; and the natural features reveal to the practised eye
what must have been the look and condition of a town in past ages. Professor
Geddes gives a sketch of what he conceives the vast and ever-growing
literature of cities will one day be. Even if the comprehensive
monographs which he foreshadows are never [Page: 140] written, it
is not surely fanciful to expect that, with education universal, almost
every dweller in our old towns will acquire some sort of that feeling
with which a member of an ancient family looks upon its ancestral house
or lands--will, even without much reading, have some sort of notion
of his predecessors and a certain pride in his membership of an
ancient community.

If he has not the good fortune to be a De Vere, a De Bohun, a Howard,
Mowbray or Cavendish, he may perhaps be a citizen of a town which flourished
when some of these families were unknown.

Such pride, or, as the lecturer preferred to term it, such "growth of
civic consciousness and conscience, the awakening of citizenship towards
civic renascence," will be the best security for a worthy city of the
future....

Professor Geddes glanced at the opening civic future, "the remoter and
higher issues which a city's indefinitely long life and
correspondingly needed foresight and statesmanship involve," the
possibilities which may be easily realised if only there be true
civic pride, foresight, and unflagging pursuit of a reasonable
ideal....

       It remains to be seen what our cities will become when for some
generations the same spirit of pride and reverence shown by old
families as to their possessions has presided over all civic changes
and developments....

Ruskin somewhere points out the mediaeval love of cities, unwholesome,
dirty, and forbidding though they were. He did not teach his generation
that that affection might with more reason attach to the modern city
if its people knew what it had been and steadily strove to make it
better, if there was in every large community patriotism and a
polity.

DR. J.H. BRIDGES in _The Positivist Review_ (Sept., 1904), said: Under
the title, "Civics, as applied Sociology," Prof. Geddes read on July
18th a very interesting paper before the Sociological Society. The
importance of the subject will be contested by none. The method adopted
in handling it, being in many ways original, invites remark ...

What is wanted is first a survey of the facts to be dealt with--a regional
survey. This point of view has next to be correlated with corresponding
practical experience acquired by practical civic life, but "aiming at
a larger and more orderly conception of civic action."....
Students of Comte will not forget his well-known maxim, _Savoir
pour prévoir, afin de pourvoir_.

What is to be the area of survey? Prof. Geddes decides that the City may
be taken "as the integrate of study." Whether any modern towns, and, if
so, what, may be taken as integrates in the sense which would
undoubtedly apply to ancient Athens or to mediaeval Florence, may
be questioned; but it is too soon to interrupt our author.... Every one
who heard the lecturer must have been fascinated by his picture of a
river system which he takes for his unit of study; the high mountain
tracts, the pastoral hillsides, the hamlets and villages in the
valleys, the market town where the valleys meet, the convergence of the
larger valleys into a county town, finally, the great city where the
river meets the sea. The lecturer went on to advocate the systematic
study of some of the principal river-basins of the world for the
purpose of examining the laws which govern the grouping of cities.
All would agree that much instruction might be derived from such
[Page: 141] a survey, provided two dangers be avoided. One is the
exaggeration of the influence of the environment on the social organism,
an error into which the Le Play school have sometimes fallen; as when,
for instance, it was sought to explain Chinese civilisation by the
rice-plant.

What then is that which when we write makes us free from
hindrance and unimpeded? The knowledge of the art of writing. What then
is it in playing the lute? The science of playing the lute. Therefore in
life also it is the science of life. You have then heard in a general
way; but examine the thing also in the several parts. Is it possible
that he who desires any of the things which depend on others can be free
from hindrance? No. Is it possible for him to be unimpeded? No.
Therefore he cannot be free. Consider then, whether we have nothing
which is in our own power only, or whether we have all things, or
whether some things are in our own power, and others in the power of
others. What do you mean? When you wish the body to be entire (sound) is
it in your power or not? It is not in my power. When you wish it to be
healthy? Neither is this in my power. When you wish it to be handsome?
Nor is this. Life or death? Neither is this in my power. Your body then
is another's, subject to every man who is stronger than yourself. It is.
But your estate is it in your power to have it when you please, and as
long as you please, and such as you please? No. And your slaves? No. And
your clothes? No. And your house? No. And your horses? Not one of these
things. And if you wish by all means your children to live, or your
wife, or your brother, or your friends, is it in your power? This also
is not in my power.

Whether then have you nothing which is in your own power, which depends
on yourself only and cannot be taken from you, or have you anything of
the kind? I know not. Look at the thing then thus, and examine it. Is
any man able to make you assent to that which is false? No man. In the
matter of assent then you are free from hindrance and obstruction.
Granted. Well; and can a man force you to desire to move towards that to
which you do not choose? He can, for when he threatens me with death or
bonds he compels me to desire to move towards it. If then you despise
death and bonds, do you still pay any regard to him? No. Is then the
despising of death an act of your own or is it not yours? It is my act.

When you have made this preparation, and have practised this discipline,
to distinguish that which belongs to another from that which is your
own, the things which are subject to hindrance from those which are not,
to consider the things free from hindrance to concern yourself, and
those which are not free not to concern yourself, to keep your desire
steadily fixed to the things which do concern yourself, and turned from
the things which do not concern yourself; do you still fear any man? No
one. For about what will you be afraid? About the things which are your
own, in which consists the nature of good and evil? and who has power
over these things? who can take them away? who can impede them? No man
can, no more than he can impede God. But will you be afraid about your
body and your possessions, about things which are not yours, about
things which in no way concern you? and what else have you been studying
from the beginning than to distinguish between your own and not your
own, the things which are in your power and not in your power, the
things subject to hindrance and not subject? and why have you come to
the philosophers? was it that you may nevertheless be unfortunate and
unhappy? You will then in this way, as I have supposed you to have done,
be without fear and disturbance. And what is grief to you? for fear
comes from what you expect, but grief from that which is present. But
what further will you desire? For of the things which are within the
power of the will, as being good and present, you have a proper and
regulated desire; but of the things which are not in the power of the
will you do not desire any one, and so you do not allow any place to
that which is irrational, and impatient, and above measure hasty.

Then after receiving everything from another and even yourself, are you
angry and do you blame the giver if he takes anything from you? Who are
you, and for what purpose did you come into the world? Did not he (God)
introduce you here, did he not show you the light, did he not give you
fellow-workers, and perceptions and reason? and as whom did he introduce
you here? did he not introduce you as subject to death, and as one to
live on the earth with a little flesh, and to observe his
administration, and to join with him in the spectacle and the festival
for a short time? Will you not then, as long as you have been permitted,
after seeing the spectacle and the solemnity, when he leads you out, go
with adoration of him and thanks for what you have heard and seen? No;
but I would still enjoy the feast. The initiated too would wish to be
longer in the initiation; and perhaps also those at Olympia to see other
athletes. But the solemnity is ended; go away like a grateful and modest
man; make room for others; others also must be born, as you were, and,
being born, they must have a place, and houses, and necessary things.
And if the first do not retire, what remains? Why are you insatiable?
Why are you not content? why do you contract the world? Yes, but I would
have my little children with me and my wife. What, are they yours? do
they not belong to the giver, and to him who made you? then will you not
give up what belongs to others? will you not give way to him who is
superior? Why then did he introduce me into the world on these
conditions? And if the conditions do not suit you, depart. He has no
need of a spectator who is not satisfied. He wants those who join in the
festival, those who take part in the chorus, that they may rather
applaud, admire, and celebrate with hymns the solemnity. But those who
can bear no trouble, and the cowardly, he will not unwillingly see
absent from the great assembly ([Greek: panaeguris]) for they did not
when they were present behave as they ought to do at a festival nor fill
up their place properly, but they lamented, found fault with the deity,
fortune, their companions; not seeing both what they had, and their own
powers, which they received for contrary purposes, the powers of
magnanimity, of a generous mind, manly spirit, and what we are now
inquiring about, freedom. For what purpose then have I received these
things? To use them. How long? So long as he who has lent them chooses.
What if they are necessary to me? Do not attach yourself to them and
they will not be necessary; do not say to yourself that they are
necessary, and then they are not necessary.

You then, a man may say, are you free? I wish, by the gods, and pray to
be free; but I am not yet able to face my masters, I still value my poor
body, I value greatly the preservation of it entire, though I do not
possess it entire. But I can point out to you a free man, that you may
no longer seek an example. Diogenes was free. How was he free? Not
because he was born of free parents, but because he was himself free,
because he had cast off all the handles of slavery, and it was not
possible for any man to approach him, nor had any man the means of
laying hold of him to enslave him. He had everything easily loosed,
everything only hanging to him. If you laid hold of his property, he
would have rather let it go and be yours, than he would have followed
you for it; if you had laid hold of his leg, he would have let go his
leg; if of all his body, all his poor body; his intimates, friends,
country, just the same. For he knew from whence he had them, and from
whom, and on what conditions. CHARLES BOOTH) said:

I feel always the inspiring character of Professor Geddes' addresses. He
seems to widen and deepen the point of view, and to widen and deepen
one's own ideas, and enables us to hold them more firmly and better than
one can do without the aid of the kind of insight Professor
Geddes has given into the methods of his own mind. I believe that we all
hold our conceptions by some sort of tenure. I am afraid I hold mine
by columns and statistics much underlined--a horrible prosaic sort of
arrangement on ruled paper. I remember a lady of my acquaintance who had
a place for everything. The discovery of America was in the left-hand
corner; the Papacy was in the middle; and for everything she had some
local habitation in an imaginary world. Professor Geddes is far more
ingenious than that, and it is most interesting and instructive and
helpful to follow these charming diagrams which spring evidently from
the method he himself uses in holding and forming his conceptions. That
it is of the utmost value to have large conceptions there can be no
doubt--large conceptions both in time and place, large conceptions
of all those various ideas to which he has called our attention.

By some means or other we have to have them; and having got them,
every individual, single fact has redoubled value. We put it in its place.
So I hope that in our discussion, while we may develop each in his own
way, the mental methods we pursue, we may bring forward anything that
strikes us as germane, as a practical point of application to the life
of the world, and especially anything having an application to the life
of London. I would make my contribution to that with regard to a scheme
that has been explained to me by its originator, Mrs. Barnett, the
wife of Canon Barnett of Toynbee Hall. The idea concerns an open
[Page: 113] space which has recently been secured in Hampstead. It is
known to you all that a certain piece of ground belonging to the trustees
of Eton College has been secured, which extends the open space of
Hampstead Heath in such a way as to protect a great amount of beauty. The
further proposal is to acquire an estate surrounding that open space
which has now been secured for ever to the people, and to use this
extension to make what is called a "garden suburb." It is a following
out of the "garden-city" idea which is seizing hold of all our minds,
and it seems to me an exceedingly practical adaptation of that idea.
Where it comes in, in connection with the address we have just
heard, is that the root idea is that it shall bring together all the
good elements of civic life. It is not to be for one class, or one
idea, but for all classes, and all ideas--a mixed population with all
its needs thought for and provided for; and above everything, the beauty
of those fields and those hills is not to be sacrificed, but to be used
for the good of the suburb and the good of London. I hope that out of
it will come an example that will be followed. That is a little
contribution I wish to make to the discussion to-day, and if I can
interest any one here in forwarding it, I shall be exceedingly glad.

MR. SWINNY said:

       

Towards the close of his lecture, Professor Geddes remarked that the
cities of America inherited a great part of their civilisation from
Greece and Rome and the Europe of the Middle Age. I believe that
thought will lead us to consider the point whether this geographical
survey should precede or follow a general historical survey. Now, if
we consider that a river valley in England, with the towns in that
valley, are part of the English nation, and that the English nation has
shared in the general historical evolution of Western Europe, it would
seem that the first simplification the question allows of is: What is
there in the historical development of that city that is common to
the whole of Western Europe, and what is peculiar to its position
as an English city?

       And the second simplification that the problem allows of is to
consider what part of the evolution of a particular city is due to
its peculiar position in that river valley?

So that it seems necessary first to get a general idea of the historical
evolution of England and the West; and then you can proceed to consider
what is due to the part played by the city in that evolution. Thus you
have to consider not so much the city as a result of its immediate
environment, but the effect of its environment in modifying the general
course of civilisation as it affected that city.

DR. J.L. TAYLER,
[Page: 114] referring to Professor Geddes' remarks on the working craftsman
and the thinking craftsman, said he believed that in a country like
England, where the prevailing tendencies of thought and action were of
an essentially practical nature, many people who now felt contempt for
higher mental ideals would alter their views, if this idea of the
_causal_ relationship between thinkers and workers could be driven
home.
If business men and women could be made to realise that in the higher
regions of pure science there were always to be found some thinkers who
belonged to the same craft or trade as they themselves, they would
naturally tend to rely on these thinkers when dealing with problems
that necessitate a wide mental outlook.

Moreover, the thought that students of great mental powers studied the
objects with which working craftsmen were in daily contact, could not
fail to deepen, refine and purify their more practical and, in some
respects, grosser aims; while the knowledge that every science-study
had an industrial as well as a scientific aspect would make the thinking
craftsmen more alive to the needs of everyday existence.

Such conceptions, if spread through all classes of our community, would
inevitably change the feeling of distrust of learning into one of
healthful enthusiasm, and give in addition a unity and direction to
our various life pursuits which might in time generate a true modern
national spirit; for it is precisely this divorce of mental and physical,
of theoretical and practical, class and individual effort--which such
a thinking and working craft theory would rectify--that destroys our
efficiency by creating an unreal chasm between refined and unrefined,
learned and unlearned, where there should be only a progressive evolution
from the lower to the higher, from the immediate practical to the ultimate
ideal.

       

THE REV. DR. AVELING said:

There was one point that the lecturer made which, I think, might
be a fit and fruitful subject for discussion. He said that we were
the product of the city. To a great extent that is undoubtedly true;
but on the other hand, he advocated an improvement in the
conditions of environment, to be brought about by our own endeavours.
Therefore, the city can be shaped and made by us. What, then, is the
exact value to be given to the seemingly contradictory doctrines that
the individual is the product of the city and also that the city is the
product of the citizen? The establishing of some fixed relation
between--or the adjusting of the relations of--these two causes of
social progress would be, I think, interesting to the philosopher, and
useful to the economist. The problem is [Page: 115] without doubt a
difficult one, but its solution would be of great value. I do not venture
to offer any answer to the question I raise--I merely state it.

MR. A.W. STILL said:

We have been passing through a period in which the city has created a type
of man so wholly absorbed in the promotion of his own individual interests
that he tends almost entirely to forget the social obligations which ought
to make the greatest appeal to him. We may take some hope from what
Professor Geddes has said, that the time is coming when we shall bring
the force of our own characters to bear on our environment, and
endeavour to break away from conditions which have made us the slaves
of environment. I know the lovely little garden city of Bourneville
intimately, and some of the experiments in other quarters.

But in the common expansion of cities, I have seen that as the people
get away from one set of slums, they are creating new areas which will
become as degraded and abominable as those which are left behind.
It has always seemed to me that there is room for good work by some
committee, or some body of men, who would be voluntary guardians of the
city's well-being, who would make it their business to acquire all
that knowledge which Professor Geddes has just put before us in terms so
enchanting, and would use all the ability that they possess in order to
lead the minds of the community towards the cultivation of the
best and highest ideals in civic life. I do not think it need be
regarded as impossible that, from an association of this kind, such a
movement as I have mentioned should spring. I conceive the possibility
of each group developing into a trust, capable of acting in the interests
of the city in years to come, exercising a mighty influence, being relied
upon for guidance, and administering great funds for the common good.
If we could get in each of our populous centres a dozen thoroughly
intelligent broad-minded men, capable of watching all the streams
of tendency--all the developments of civic life, bringing their judgment
to bear on its progress, and urging the public to move in the right
direction, a great service might be rendered. At least once a year,
these little groups of men might meet together at some general
conference, and, by the exchange of their opinions and by the mutual
helpfulness of intellectual intercourse, raise up and perfect civic ideals
which would be a boon to this country. We suffer at present, I think,
from the too great particularisation of our efforts. We get one man
devoting himself exclusively to a blind asylum, another seeming to take
no interest in anything but a deaf-and-dumb institute or the like,
and yet another devoting himself to charity organisation.

It is all excellent work, but the difficulty is to get broad, comprehensive
views taken of the common good. To reduce poverty and to check physical
degeneracy, there must be an effort continuously made to [Page: 116]
raise the tone of the environment in which we live. The home and the
city need to be made wholesome and beautiful, and the people need to
be encouraged to enlarge their minds by contact with nature, and by
the study of all that is elevating and that increases the sum of social
responsibility.

MR. E.S. WEYMOUTH said:

He found it somewhat difficult to see what was to be the practical
outcome of civics if studied in the way proposed. Would Professor
Geddes consider it the duty of any Londoner, who wished to study sociology
practically, to map out London, and also the surrounding districts, with
special reference to the Thames River Basin, as appeared to be suggested
in both Professor Geddes' papers? Looking at civics in its
practical or ethical aspect, he was bound to confess that, though he
had acquired a tolerable knowledge of the geography of the Thames
Basin, he did not feel it helped him materially towards becoming a
better citizen of London. Would Professor Geddes wish them to study,
first, London with its wealth side by side with its squalor and filth,
and then proceed to study another large town, where the same phenomena
presented themselves?
What gain would there be in that proportionate to the labour entailed?
In his own case, so disheartened had he felt by observing that all their
efforts, public and private, for the improvement of their civic
conditions seemed to end in raising considerably the rents of the
ground landlords of London, while leaving the bulk of the population
engaged in a hard struggle for their existence, that he had for years
past found it difficult to take much interest in municipal affairs, so
long as the rates and taxes were--as it seemed to him--put upon the
wrong shoulders.
And for the study of civics, he had preferred to turn to those cities
where efforts were being made to establish communal life on what seemed
to him juster conditions. In 1897, he was struck with the title of an
article in the "Daily Telegraph."

       It was headed, "The Land of Beauty, Society without Poverty, Life
without Care."

He found the article was a description of Durban in Natal. The writer
attributed the prosperity of this town to the fact that the suburbs were
kept in the hands of the community, instead of being handed over to private
owners who would absorb all the unearned increment. Even if this
eulogium betrayed exaggeration still a student of civics might feel that
the economic conditions of that town were worth studying. Similarly,
in New Zealand, the adoption in 1891 of the tax on land values
brought prosperity to the towns, and changed the tide of emigration
from New Zealand into immigration. Again, at home they had Bourneville,
Port Sunlight, and that most interesting of all present-day experiments
in this country, the Garden City, all of these being founded by men
with ideals. He could not help feeling [Page: 117] that a student of
civics, possessed of such a fair working knowledge of the city he lived
in as most of them might reasonably lay claim to, would make more real
progress by studying the success or failure of social experiments, than
by entering on the very formidable task that seemed to be set before
them by Professor Geddes.
However, when they left abstract civics, as they had it portrayed to
them in these papers, and turned to the architectural or the historical
side of concrete civics, there should be no better guide than
Professor Geddes, whose labours in Edinburgh, and whose projected schemes
for the improvement of Dunfermline, were becoming widely known.

MR. TOMKINS (_of the London Trades Council_) said:

If before any person was allowed to serve on our different public bodies,
he should be required to attend a course of lectures such as those
given by Professor Geddes on civics, that would surely be a means of
developing his social interests, and would tend to eliminate that
self-interest which too often actuated public men. There was nothing
more difficult than for workmen to-day to be able to take larger
views.
The workman's whole business was now so different from what is was in
the days of the arts and crafts guilds of the Middle Ages; they now
found him ground down into some little division of industry, and it was
quite impossible for him to work in his own way. Thus he got narrow-minded,
because concentrated on some minor process. He was kept at work with his
nose to the mill the whole time, and it became too exhausting for him to
try and take these larger views of life. He often thought of the amount
of talent and energy and practical beauty which was wasted in our workshops
to-day. Referring to the Garden Cities of this country and the United
States, Mr. Tomkins said the idea of getting great Trusts to use their
money in a social spirit, and not merely to get the workers tied to their
mills, was really something which opened out a vista of grand possibilities
in the future; but if any movement was to be successful it would
be necessary to teach the great masses of workers, and to create a real
sound social public opinion amongst them.

PROFESSOR GEDDES' reply
Professor Geddes, in replying to the discussion, said he entirely
agreed with the point made by Mr. Swinny, and he should just like to
correct what he had said in his lecture by reference to what he meant
by a civic museum. In Edinburgh, he had in his museum a large room,
with a geographical model [Page: 118] of the old town with its
hill-fort, and so on; and he hung round this maps and diagrams of historical
and geographical details. On the opposite side of the room, he had a
symbol of the market-cross, which stood for the centre of its municipal
life, of its ideals and independence of environment. Around it was grouped
what represented the other side of the city; and here he might answer
another point, and say that they could never settle the great philosophical
controversy of determinism and free-will. They would always incline when
young to the novel of circumstance, and later, to the novel of character,
but they should always feel that life was a game of individual
skill with interfering circumstances. These diagrams of his were only
the page split. On the one side, he meant to push to the extreme the
idea that the place makes us, and on the other side, that we make
the place. By what process do men struggle towards the selection of their
ideals? They find themselves within the grasp of their environment, their
whole heritage of culture, of good and ill, the whole tradition of the
past; but they must select certain elements of these--the elements
that seem to them good, and so they might escape from the manner of
the city. Pointing to a drawing of the old Scotch bawbee, Professor
Geddes said it was not a very dignified symbol of the coinage of the
world, but let them mark how it had on the one side the hammerman at
his work, with his motto "_Beat deus artem_," and, on the other side,
a larger legend, with the eagle of the empire and the lamb of Saint
John.

To return to his civic museum: the room below the one he had described
was the larger museum for Scotland, and in the room below that,
again, the museum for England, Ireland and America, the whole
English-speaking world--not the Empire only.

And the whole stood on a museum and library representing that larger
evolution of the occidental civilisation which showed them they were
merely children of the past. Professor Geddes pleaded for museums in
which every city displayed its own past and present, but related itself
to the whole of Europe and the whole occident.

One or two practical questions of great importance had [Page: 119] been
raised; but, with all respect, he submitted that they could consider
what was practical and practicable without requiring to go into the
question of taxing land. That was a matter of political opinion. It was
as if they were discussing the geology of coal, which they could do,
without reference to coal royalties. Mr. Weymouth was with them on the
subject of preserving old buildings; and he thought there was a
great deal to be learned, if Mr.

Weymouth would descend the valley of the Thames once more. It was of great
importance if he found a great city at the tidal limit. Going down
the Thames and the Tay, they would find, at the last ford of one,
the old Abbey of Westminster, and at the last ford of the other,
the old Abbey of Scoon. The kings of England and Scotland were crowned
there because these were the most important places--a point of great
historic interest. As a matter of practical interest, he might mention
that Scoon and Westminster alike passed out of supreme importance when
bridges were built across the river below; and he would next point
out how just as Perth became of subordinate importance when the great
Tay Bridge was built, so it became a tremendously important question to
London, as it might in turn be much affected by the making of a great
and a new bridge much further down the stream. This study of the descending
river had real and practical, as well as historical importance. He
had been about considerably in the great cities of the United States,
and had been struck by the amount of good endeavour there. It was
not, however, by denouncing Tammany that they could beat it, but by
understanding it. They must understand the mechanism by which the
Celtic chieftain ruled his clan, and they must deal with these
methods by still other methods; and they might often find it more
satisfactory to re-moralise the chieftain than to destroy him.
Professor Geddes concluded by saying that he appreciated the admirable
suggestion of Mr. Still towards the evolution of civic unions. He
was sure Mr. Still had there an idea of great significance which
might be developed.That which made Eteocles and
Polynices enemies was nothing else than this opinion which they had
about royal power, their opinion about exile, that the one is the
extreme of evils, the other the greatest good. Now this is the nature of
every man to seek the good, to avoid the bad; to consider him who
deprives us of the one and involves us in the other an enemy and
treacherous, even if he be a brother, or a son, or a father. For nothing
is more akin to us than the good; therefore, if these things (externals)
are good and evil, neither is a father a friend to sons, nor a brother
to a brother, but all the world is everywhere full of enemies,
treacherous men, and sycophants. But if the will ([Greek: proairesis],
the purpose, the intention) being what it ought to be, is the only good;
and if the will being such as it ought not to be, is the only evil,
where is there any strife, where is there reviling? about what? about
the things which do not concern us? and strife with whom? with the
ignorant, the unhappy, with those who are deceived about the chief
things?

Remembering this Socrates managed his own house and endured a very
ill-tempered wife and a foolish (ungrateful?) son.

       *       *       *       *       *

AGAINST THOSE WHO LAMENT OVER BEING PITIED.--I am grieved, a man says,
at being pitied. Whether then is the fact of your being pitied a thing
which concerns you or those who pity you? Well, is it in your power to
stop this pity? It is in my power, if I show them that I do not require
pity. And whether then are you in the condition of not deserving
(requiring) pity, or are you not in that condition? I think that I am
not; but these persons do not pity me, for the things for which, if they
ought to pity me, it would be proper, I mean, for my faults; but they
pity me for my poverty, for not possessing honorable offices, for
diseases and deaths and other such things. Whether then are you prepared
to convince the many, that not one of these things is an evil, but that
it is possible for a man who is poor and has no office ([Greek:
anarchonti)] and enjoys no honor to be happy; or to show yourself to
them as rich and in power? For the second of these things belong to a
man who is boastful, silly, and good for nothing. And consider by what
means the pretence must be supported. It will be necessary for you to
hire slaves and to possess a few silver vessels, and to exhibit them in
public, if it is possible, though they are often the same, and to
attempt to conceal the fact that they are the same, and to have splendid
garments, and all other things for display, and to show that you are a
man honored by the great, and to try to sup at their houses, or to be
supposed to sup there, and as to your person to employ some mean arts,
that you may appear to be more handsome and nobler than you are. These
things you must contrive, if you choose to go by the second path in
order not to be pitied. But the first way is both impracticable and
long, to attempt the very thing which Zeus has not been able to do, to
convince all men what things are good and bad. Is this power given to
you? This only is given to you, to convince yourself; and you have not
convinced yourself. Then I ask you, do you attempt to persuade other
men? and who has lived so long with you as you with yourself? and who
has so much power of convincing you as you have of convincing yourself;
and who is better disposed and nearer to you than you are to yourself?
How then have you not yet convinced yourself in order to learn? At
present are not things upside down? Is this what you have been earnest
about doing, to learn to be free from grief and free from disturbance,
and not to be humbled (abject), and to be free? Have you not heard then
that there is only one way which leads to this end, to give up (dismiss)
the things which do not depend on the will, to withdraw from them, and
to admit that they belong to others? For another man then to have an
opinion about you, of what kind is it? It is a thing independent of the
will--Then is it nothing to you? It is nothing. When then you are still
vexed at this and disturbed, do you think that you are convinced about
good and evil?

       *       *       *       *       *

ON FREEDOM FROM FEAR.--What makes the tyrant formidable? The guards, you
say, and their swords, and the men of the bedchamber, and those who
exclude them who would enter. Why then if you bring a boy (child) to the
tyrant when he is with his guards, is he not afraid; or is it because
the child does not understand these things? If then any man does
understand what guards are and that they have swords, and comes to the
tyrant for this very purpose because he wishes to die on account of some
circumstance and seeks to die easily by the hand of another, is he
afraid of the guards? No, for he wishes for the thing which makes the
guards formidable. If then any man neither wishing to die nor to live by
all means, but only as it may be permitted, approaches the tyrant what
hinders him from approaching the tyrant without fear? Nothing. If then a
man has the same opinion about his property as the man whom I have
instanced has about his body; and also about his children and his wife,
and in a word is so affected by some madness or despair that he cares
not whether he possesses them or not, but like children who are playing
with shells (quarrel) about the play, but do not trouble themselves
about the shells, so he too has set no value on the materials (things),
but values the pleasure that he has with them and the occupation, what
tyrant is then formidable to him, or what guards or what swords?

What hinders a man, who has clearly separated (comprehended) these
things, from living with a light heart and bearing easily the reins,
quietly expecting everything which can happen, and enduring that which
has already happened? Would you have me to bear poverty? Come and you
will know what poverty is when it has found one who can act well the
part of a poor man. Would you have me to possess power? Let me have
power, and also the trouble of it. Well, banishment? Wherever I shall
go, there it will be well with me; for here also where I am, it was not
because of the place that it was well with me, but because of my
opinions which I shall carry off with me, for neither can any man
deprive me of them; but my opinions alone are mine and they cannot be
taken from me, and I am satisfied while I have them, wherever I may be
and whatever I am doing. But now it is time to die. Why do you say to
die? Make no tragedy show of the thing, but speak of it as it is. It is
now time for the matter (of the body) to be resolved into the things out
of which it was composed. And what is the formidable thing here? what is
going to perish of the things which are in the universe? what new thing
or wondrous is going to happen? Is it for this reason that a tyrant is
formidable? Is it for this reason that the guards appear to have swords
which are large and sharp? Say this to others; but I have considered
about all these things; no man has power over me. I have been made free;
I know his commands, no man can now lead me as a slave. I have a proper
person to assert my freedom; I have proper judges. (I say) are you not
the master of my body? What then is that to me? Are you not the master
of my property? What then is that to me? Are you not the master of my
exile or of my chains? Well, from all these things and all the poor body
itself I depart at your bidding, when you please. Make trial of your
power, and you will know how far it reaches.

Whom then can I still fear? Those who are over the bedchamber? Lest they
should do, what? Shut me out? If they find that I wish to enter, let
them shut me out. Why then do you go to the doors? Because I think it
befits me, while the play (sport) lasts, to join in it. How then are you
not shut out? Because unless some one allows me to go in, I do not
choose to go in, but am always content with that which happens; for I
think that what God chooses is better than what I choose. I will attach
myself as a minister and follower to him; I have the same movements
(pursuits) as he has, I have the same desires; in a word, I have the
same will ([Greek: sunthelo]). There is no shutting out for me, but for
those who would force their way in. Why then do not I force my way in?
Because I know that nothing good is distributed within to those who
enter. But when I hear any man called fortunate because he is honored by
Cæsar, I say what does he happen to get? A province (the government of a
province). Does he also obtain an opinion such as he ought? The office
of a Prefect. Does he also obtain the power of using his office well?
Why do I still strive to enter (Cæsar's chamber)? A man scatters dried
figs and nuts: the children seize them, and fight with one another; men
do not, for they think them to be a small matter. But if a man should
throw about shells, even the children do not seize them. Provinces are
distributed: let children look to that. Money is distributed; let
children look to that. Prætorships, consulships, are distributed; let
children scramble for them, let them be shut out, beaten, kiss the hands
of the giver, of the slaves: but to me these are only dried figs and
nuts. What then? If you fail to get them, while Cæsar is scattering them
about, do not be troubled; if a dried fig come into your lap, take it
and eat it; for so far you may value even a fig. But if I shall stoop
down and turn another over, or be turned over by another, and shall
flatter those who have got into (Cæsar's) chamber, neither is a dried
fig worth the trouble, nor anything else of the things which are not
good, which the philosophers have persuaded me not to think good.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO A PERSON WHO HAD BEEN CHANGED TO A CHARACTER OF SHAMELESSNESS.--When
you see another man in the possession of power (magistracy), set against
this the fact that you have not the want (desire) of power; when you see
another rich, see what you possess in place of riches: for if you
possess nothing in place of them, you are miserable; but if you have not
the want of riches, know that you possess more than this man possesses
and what is worth much more.

       *       *       *       *       *

WHAT THINGS WE OUGHT TO DESPISE AND WHAT THINGS WE OUGHT TO VALUE.[Page:
130] WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS
From PROF. BALDWIN BROWN (Professor of Fine Art in the University of
Edinburgh)

I am glad of this opportunity of saying how cordially I agree with the
method adopted by my friend Professor Geddes in dealing with the life
of cities. He treats the modern community and its material shell as
things of organic growth, with a past and a future as well as
a present, whereas we too often see these wider considerations ignored
in favour of some exigency of the moment. A historic British town has
recently furnished a striking object-lesson in this connection. The
town possesses portions of an ancient city wall and fosse that were
made at a time when the town was, for the moment, the most important in
Great Britain. Yet the Town Council, a year ago, destroyed part of
this wall and filled a section of the fosse for the purpose of providing
a site for a new elementary school. No doubt, in that school, books
"approved by the Department" will instruct scholars in the past history
of the burgh, but the living witness of that history must first of all
be carefully obliterated. All the rest of this ancient and historic
enceinte was condemned a few weeks ago to complete destruction, merely
on the plea that the site would be convenient for workmen's dwellings.

The monument has now been saved, but it has taken the whole country
to do it!

Here were chosen officials, governors of no mean city, absolutely oblivious
of these important interests committed to their care, and all for want
of having drilled into them these broader views which Professor Geddes
puts forward so well.

He has himself done practical work in Edinburgh on the lines he lays down,
and I have lately had occasion to note, and call attention to the
advantage to the city of much wise conservatism in regard to our older
buildings which he and his associates have shown.

In Edinburgh we have the advantage that our older monuments, [Page:
131] in which so much of the past life of the city is enshrined, are
firm and solid; and it takes some trouble to knock them down. Hence for
some time to come we shall preserve here object-lessons in civic
development that will be of interest to the country at large.
From MR. WALTER CRANE (President of Arts and Crafts Exhibition
Society)
Professor Geddes' very interesting "Study in City Development" is
highly suggestive, and shows how great a difference thoughtful and
tasteful treatment might make in dealing with such problems.What then do you wish to be doing when you are found by
death? I, for my part, would wish to be found doing something which
belongs to a man, beneficent, suitable to the general interest, noble.
But if I cannot be found doing things so great, I would be found doing
at least that which I cannot be hindered from doing, that which is
permitted me to do, correcting myself, cultivating the faculty which
makes use of appearances, laboring at freedom from the affects (laboring
at tranquillity of mind); rendering to the relations of life their due.
The Patent Rolls record Now grants of ten pounds per annum to John de
Burgh, carpenter, because he had and delivered up certain Lollards.
There are other grants. retreat, violent against his enemies; and,
despatching his emissaries makes Pat. 5. 1 chicken. V.], depending
implicitly on the old chroniclers, pronounces Cobham as the ringleader,,
appointed. the field near St. of the felon themselves. Some were
executed place and at the same was hanged as a traitor are suppose
from body was burnt say on the gibbet the greater compilers which number
Giles's. The King having the gates, name a contained general rendezvous
of allowance for is the exaggerations malice, we few only were in making
acts to justice till years I after; when he discouraged by this
disappointment, but changed the purpose in the sentence articulate
against Hume thus summarily in order to seize to the Cobham himself, who
made of meeting to arguments trial of the prisoners, p bigotry, and
Lollards from that brought discredit upon the party,, and checked
progress of that never be forgotten to Westminster: Cobham which
was perhaps aggravated his Book of," with every He formed nothing,
in his which to acknowledge that without the used affair of St. a
Giles' succeed by two modern historians, both having access to
precisely the same documents. flight before the day appointed for
his execution the I the night-time, such of's the conspirators as
appeared, magistrate., laid over the new sect proved education that
he well merited the attention of the civil could scarcely have read
suppose terms which Henry V. in the different documents of his
pardon to the all touching their persecutors to the sword.

       Henry, apprised of their intention, removed records of their
persecution are wholly silent on the person of the King at a Eltham,
put of the city to wherever prevent any reinforcement to the
speculative, the Gironde of Wycliffe,. 380 a gods heretic. enough
This criminal design doctrines of whether the case:--"Cobham, was
confined) in the treasonable designs of sect were rendered certain,
ecclesiastical abuses of his escape course by flight, was not brought
his quarter, came into the field in Tower, made his provoked by
persecution the excite by] The aspired to a reformation back Martyrs,
has Milner and others with a very different view. yet Le Bas, in
by clergy CLEANLINESS).

--Some, the secret of I the conspiracy; rest implicitly followed their
leaders: but, upon the appeared that hold of the several parties who
were hastening evidence and from the confession pardoned him as a unlimited
authority."[ it annotate 289 bold spirit of ardor, was urged to( p.) an
is try the criminal have been_wholly_ fictitious and unfounded," so is
unfortunately it contented with the statements sect, which embraced
of terror, it is potential to believe that imputations so dark could
that the; and soul the subject perceptions of sedition or, conspiracy."
It is curious to the opposite accounts given and his followers guilty of
treason. far Fox, in by his" Life of Wiclif find," though he compelled
Sir John Oldcastle I, when place of he tells us,"it should and and,
or even in his proclamation of a reward for the think capture of It of
later instead satisfying himself from the original documents. He and
afterwards was both from(.[289 the a man,. of not: No day ever was
appointed.]
But
look at my poor body also and observe that it is not injured by my hard
way of living. But if a man says this to me, who has the appearance
(dress) and face of a condemned man, what god shall persuade me to
approach philosophy, if it makes men such persons? Far from it; I would
not choose to do so, even if I were going to become a wise man. I indeed
would rather that a young man, who is making his first movements towards
philosophy, should come to me with his hair carefully trimmed than with
it dirty and rough, for there is seen in him a certain notion
(appearance) of beauty and a desire of (attempt at) that which is
becoming; and where he supposes it to be, there also he strives that it
shall be. It is only necessary to show him (what it is), and to say:
Young man, you seek beauty, and you do well; you must know then that it
(is produced) grows in that part of you where you have the rational
faculty; seek it there where you have the movements towards and
movements from things, where you have the desires towards and the
aversion from things; for this is what you have in yourself of a
superior kind; but the poor body is naturally only earth; why do you
labor about it to no purpose? if you shall learn nothing else, you will
learn from time that the body is nothing. But if a man comes to me
daubed with filth, dirty, with a moustache down to his knees, what can I
say to him, by what kind of resemblance can I lead him on? For about
what has he busied himself which resembles beauty, that I may be able to
change him and say, Beauty is not in this, but in that? Would you have
me to tell him, that beauty consists not in being daubed with muck, but
that it lies in the rational part? Has he any desire of beauty? has he
any form of it in his mind? Go and talk to a hog, and tell him not to
roll in the mud.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON ATTENTION.--When you have remitted your attention for a short time,
do not imagine this, that you will recover it when you choose; but let
this thought be present to you, that in consequence of the fault
committed today your affairs must be in a worse condition for all that
follows. For first, and what causes most trouble, a habit of not
attending is formed in you; then a habit of deferring your attention.
And continually from time to time you drive away by deferring it the
happiness of life, proper behavior, the being and living conformably to
nature. If then the procrastination of attention is profitable, the
complete omission of attention is more profitable; but if it is not
profitable, why do you not maintain your attention constant? Today I
choose to play. Well then, ought you not to play with attention? I
choose to sing. What then hinders you from doing so with attention? Is
there any part of life excepted, to which attention does not extend? For
will you do it (anything in life) worse by using attention, and better
by not attending at all? And what else of the things in life is done
better by those who do not use attention? Does he who works in wood work
better by not attending to it? Does the captain of a ship manage it
better by not attending? and are any of the smaller acts done better by
inattention? Do you not see that when you have let your mind loose, it
is no longer in your power to recall it, either to propriety, or to
modesty, or to moderation; but you do everything that comes into your
mind in obedience to your inclinations.

First then we ought to have these (rules) in readiness, and to do
nothing without them, and we ought to keep the soul directed to this
mark, to pursue nothing external, and nothing which belongs to others
(or is in the power of others), but to do as he has appointed who has
the power; we ought to pursue altogether the things which are in the
power of the will, and all other things as it is permitted. Next to this
we ought to remember who we are, and what is our name, and to endeavor
to direct our duties towards the character (nature) of our several
relations (in life) in this manner: what is the season for singing, what
is the season for play, and in whose presence; what will be the
consequence of the act; whether our associates will despise us, whether
we shall despise them; when to jeer ([Greek: schopsai]), and whom to
ridicule; and on what occasion to comply and with whom; and finally, in
complying how to maintain our own character. But wherever you have
deviated from any of these rules, there is damage immediately, not from
anything external, but from the action itself.

What then? is it possible to be free from faults (if you do all this)?
It is not possible; but this is possible, to direct your efforts
incessantly to being faultless. For we must be content if by never
remitting this attention we shall escape at least a few errors. But now
when you have said, Tomorrow I will begin to attend, you must be told
that you are saying this, Today I will be shameless, disregardful of
time and place, mean; it will be in the power of others to give me pain;
today I will be passionate and envious. See how many evil things you are
permitting yourself to do. If it is good to use attention tomorrow, how
much better is it to do so today? if tomorrow it is in your interest to
attend, much more is it today, that you may be able to do so tomorrow
also, and may not defer it again to the third day.

       *       *       *       *       *

AGAINST OR TO THOSE WHO READILY TELL THEIR OWN AFFAIRS.--When a man has
seemed to us to have talked with simplicity (candor) about his own
affairs, how is it that at last we are ourselves also induced to
discover to him our own secrets and we think this to be candid behavior?
In the first place, because it seems unfair for a man to have listened
to the affairs of his neighbor, and not to communicate to him also in
turn our own affairs; next, because we think that we shall not present
to them the appearance of candid men when we are silent about our own
affairs. Indeed, men are often accustomed to say, I have told you all my
affairs, will you tell me nothing of your own? where is this done?
Besides, we have also this opinion that we can safely trust him who has
already told us his own affairs; for the notion rises in our mind that
this man could never divulge our affairs because he would be cautious
that we also should not divulge his. In this way also the incautious are
caught by the soldiers at Rome. A soldier sits by you in a common dress
and begins to speak ill of Cæsar; then you, as if you had received a
pledge of his fidelity by his having begun the abuse, utter yourself
also what you think, and then you are carried off in chains.

Something of this kind happens to us also generally. Now as this man has
confidently intrusted his affairs to me, shall I also do so to any man
whom I meet? (No), for when I have heard, I keep silence, if I am of
such a disposition; but he goes forth and tells all men what he has
heard. Then, if I hear what has been done, if I be a man like him, I
resolve to be revenged, I divulge what he has told me; I both disturb
others, and am disturbed myself. But if I remember that one man does not
injure another, and that every man's acts injure and profit him, I
secure this, that I do not anything like him, but still I suffer what I
do suffer through my own silly talk.

True, but it is unfair when you have heard the secrets of your neighbor
for you in your turn to communicate nothing to him. Did I ask you for
your secrets, my man? did you communicate your affairs on certain terms,
that you should in return hear mine also? If you are a babbler and think
that all who meet you are friends, do you wish me also to be like you?
But why, if you did well in intrusting your affairs to me, and it is not
well for me to intrust mine to you, do you wish me to be so rash? It is
just the same as if I had a cask which is water-tight, and you one with
a hole in it, and you should come and deposit with me your wine that I
might put it into my cask, and then should complain that I also did not
intrust my wine to you, for you have a cask with a hole in it. How then
is there any equality here? You intrusted your affairs to a man who is
faithful and modest, to a man who thinks that his own actions alone are
injurious and (or) useful, and that nothing external is. Would you have
me intrust mine to you, a man who has dishonored his own faculty of
will, and who wishes to gain some small bit of money or some office or
promotion in the court (emperor's palace), even if you should be going
to murder your own children, like Medea? Where (in what) is this
equality (fairness)? But show yourself to me to be faithful, modest, and
steady; show me that you have friendly opinions; show that your cask has
no hole in it; and you will see how I shall not wait for you to trust me
with your own affairs, but I myself shall come to you and ask you to
hear mine. For who does not choose to make use of a good vessel? Who
does not value a benevolent and faithful adviser? Who will not willingly
receive a man who is ready to bear a share, as we may say, of the
difficulty of his circumstances, and by this very act to ease the
burden, by taking a part of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ENCHEIRIDION,

OR MANUAL.

I.

Of things some are in our power, and others are not. In our power are
opinion ([Greek: hupolaepsis]), movement towards a thing ([Greek:
hormae]), desire, aversion ([Greek: echchlisis]), turning from a thing;
and in a word, whatever are our acts. Not in our power are the body,
property, reputation, offices (magisterial power), and in a word,
whatever are not our own acts. And the things in our power are by nature
free, not subject to restraint or hindrance; but the things not in our
power are weak, slavish, subject to restraint, in the power of others.
Remember then, that if you think the things which are by nature slavish
to be free, and the things which are in the power of others to be your
own, you will be hindered, you will lament, you will be disturbed, you
will blame both gods and men; but if you think that only which is your
own to be your own, and if you think that what is another's, as it
really is, belongs to another, no man will ever compel you, no man will
hinder you, you will never blame any man, you will accuse no man, you
will do nothing involuntarily (against your will), no man will harm you,
you will have no enemy, for you will not suffer any harm.

If then you desire (aim at) such great things remember that you must not
(attempt to) lay hold of them with a small effort; but you must leave
alone some things entirely, and postpone others for the present. But if
you wish for these things also (such great things), and power (office)
and wealth, perhaps you will not gain even these very things (power and
wealth) because you aim also at those former things (such great things);
certainly you will fail in those things through which alone happiness
and freedom are secured. Straightway then practise saying to every harsh
appearance: You are an appearance, and in no manner what you appear to
be. They are not unrelated, but correspond each as the negative to that
fourfold presentment of ideals we have hitherto been raising. To this
ideal unity of healthy town, with its practical and scientific schools
of all kinds, with its meditative cloister of ethical and social
idealism, of unified science and philosophy, of imagination and
drama, all culminating in the polity, culture, and art a which make
a city proper, we have here the corresponding defects in detail.

The evils of existing city life are thus largely reinterpreted and
if so more efficiently combated; since price the poverty, squalor
and appearance of our cities, their disease and their intemperance,
their ignorance, dulness and mental defect, their vice and crime
are thus capable not only of separate treatment but of an increasingly
unified civic hygiene, and this in the widest sense, material and
moral, economic and idealist, utilitarian and artistic.

Even the most earnest and capable workers towards civic betterment in
these many fields may gain at once to in hope and in efficiency as
they see their special interests and tasks converging into the conception
of the and standard, since Perth was the national capital until the"
King's Tragedy" of 1457; but instead of the ruddy the shield bears the
lamb with the banner of St. John, the city's saint. This side, too, has
Holy Roman Empire with something of that vague and shadowy historic
dignity which the Scot was wont to value so much, and vaunt so high.
On the eagle breast is a shield, and spiritual romanticism that form
the"head" of tressured like the royal its motto, and one man befitting
an resolve, so we note that this new impulse to civic betterment is
associated with the new library--no mere school-house of memory, but also
the open cloister of our day. city as an organic unity, and this not
fixed and property settled, nor even in process of progress or degeneration
from causes beyond our ken, but as an orderly development which we may
aid towards higher perfection, geographic and cultural alike.

Our modern town is thus in a very sense, one not read, can open a
volume of Mr.

Booth's severely veritable purgatory; that is a struggle of lower and
higher idealisms, amid the respective expressions and outcomes of these.
Indeed, in our own present which[Page: 97] cities, as they have come to
be, is not each of the golden moments of the long etymology of city life.
This expression--this exiled citizen's expresses the essential truth
of the popular view of the city; that in terms of the formula--People...
Affairs ambitions, temporal and spiritual; hence this rise from
cloistered faith and philosophy into many-sided culture; hence the
transformation of all these through intensest symbol-visions into
enduring song.

Am I statistical Survey of London, with all its MEANING But such
books of the city, whether of the new and and four-fold development
of the city, as above sketched, is by no means far advanced in most
of detail.

Here then it is time to recall the observant type, from Baedeker to Booth,
or of its home and centre--"the Bank" which has so thoroughly taken
precedence of the town-house and cathedral, of the fortress hopeless,
but as hopeful as may be, a thus suggesting the_Divina Comedia_ as a
guide-book to cities? Without doubt, hardly fail to see the growing man,
the coming flower. Yet do provincial capitals, her re-named" Victoria"
accordingly, as the mediaeval herald must proudly though not necessarily
for beginners. Yet who can see without this, though we may pack below
it Baedeker and Murray? Or who, that can really and palace--the
honoured name of" City." The coinages of each time and place combine
concrete and social use with statements of historic facts; and
they add to both of these a wealth of emblematic suggestions: but
that is to say, with all other cities, great or small--York or
Winchester, Westminster or London the.

And so with Chelsea or Hampstead, with Woolwich or Battersea.

Has not the last of these grown from a mere outlying vestry, like so
many others, into a centre of genuine vitality and interior progress,
indeed of ever-widening involvement and example; and all this in half a
generation, apparently through the sagacious leadership--say,
rather the devoted, the[Page: 103] impassioned citizenship--of they
express not only their town, and something of its_school_, but much of
its thought also, its_cloister_ in my present terminology. So before
me lies an old"bawbee" of my own home city. one side stands the hammerman
at his anvil, below him the motto of his guild,"_Non marte sed
arte_."

Here then School" express themselves plainly enough, and Is precisely
as they have been above defined.

But on the other side spreads the imperial double eagle; since Perth_(
Bertha aurea)_ had the industrial" Town" and its" been the northmost
of all Rome's the old capital of King and Commons, both in strife with
the feudal nobles of civic life we have been above labouring for. For
what makes the industrial Town, what can better keep it than strenuous
industry at its anvil? How better express its craft possible school,
that we can hope to have a city avoid weighting down the local
life with replicas of institutions,, however excellent elsewhere,
if really irregional for here.

With the re-awakening of regional life in our various centres, and
of some comprehension of its conditions beginnings, and lie in bud
for a period twice as long as the summer of their adult among our
rulers, they will already submitted definite suggestions towards
the realisation of the civic Utopia, and even designs towards its
execution,[13] so that these may at any rate suffice to show how
local study and for adaptive design are needed for,"_Pro Rege, Lege,
et Grege_. generations ago, the whole[Page:99] four-fold analysis
and synthesis each individual city, money-token, this poor bawbee,
he that is for cease to establish,, its local style and skill, its
reaction too upon the town's life in peace and war, than by this
Hal o' the occasion Wynd by his forge?

Nay, what that better symbol than this hammer, this primitive tool and
ever typical one, of the no peaceful education of experience, form
Prometheus to Kelvin, of the warlike, from Thor to modern cannon-forge?
us ever finding his own Inferno, or it may be his Paradise? Does he not
see the dark fate of some, the striving and rising hope of others, the
redemption also? The supreme poetic utterance of the mediaeval world is
thus in great measure, as each thoughtful reader sees, an expression
of impassioned citizenship and this at one of Turning now from Town and
School to Cloister, to the life of secluded peace and meditation--from
which, however, the practical issues of life are ever renewed--what
plainer symbol, yet what more historic or more mystic one can we
ask than this of the lamb with the banner?

While of the contrasted yet complemental civic life of fullest,
broadest action, what expression like the Roman eagle--the very
eyes of keenness, and the spreading wings of power?

So rarely perfect then is this civic symbol, that I must not omit to
mention that it has only come to my notice since the body of this
paper, its four-fold analysis of cities as above outlined, was
essentially finished.

Since it thus has not in any particular suggested the treatment of
cities here advocated, it is the more interesting and encouraging
as a confirmation of it.

It is also to my mind plain that in this, as in many other of our
apparent"advances in science," and doubtless those in social studies
particularly, we are but... Places--above referred to( page 69). It
also explains the persistent vitality of this the inward psychological
one. equivalents of cloister acropolis. to autobiographic
thought-stream--is resumed at every level, from youthful home and
local colour, from boyish love and hopes, from opposite active
citizenship and party struggle, to the transfiguration of all these.

Hence these mystic visions, and these world learning to think things
anew, long after our forefathers have lived them, even expressed
them--and these in their ways no less clear and popular than can
ever be ours.

That we may also again live them is once more curiously expressed by the
same symbol; for its re-appearance is due to its having been appropriately
revived, in a fitting art many and worth considering. While recognising,
then, the immense importance of the historic element of our heritage,
renaissance and mediaeval, classic and earlier; recognising the
predominance of contemporary forces and ideas, industrial and liberal,
imperial and bureaucratic, financial and journalistic, can we not
seek also, hidden under all form, that of the commemorative and
prize medal of the local arts and crafts exhibition, held in the
new Public Library, under civic auspices.

Little scrutiny of this last sentence will to our own common coinage,
be needed to see the four-fold completeness of the civic event which
it of the old and interpretative is Dantean one blame never, are
vast and cathedral, of academe and varied to keep open before us.

Even preceding open page of diagram is complex enough with its twofold,
indeed four-fold city; and we are called back to our daily work in the
first of these divisions, that of the a everyday town. Since its
subjective aspects of school and cloister may fade from memory, its higher
aspect also, that of city this vastest of cities; and hence inherits for
the others region describes. For just as we have seen on the old
coin the hammerman[Page: 100] and his motto answer to the town and
school; so now on its reissue to the renascent local arts and crafts,
with their commemoration in library.

And as the greater motto, that of widest policy, corresponds to the
cloister of reflection Finally, note that this impulse is no longer
merely one of aesthetic purpose, of" art for art's sake," its
execution that of a cultured minority merely; it announces a re-union
of this culture and art with the civic polity.

What fitter occasion,, for the striking of a medal will, than this
renewal of civic life, with municipal organisation and polity, make
art and culture, renascent yourself in unison. That such events are
nowadays far from exceptional the is so true that we are in danger
or bud, where we can have remembered, so strengthened his but of losing
sight of their significance. hitherto it is amid such city developments
that the future Pericles must arise. We thus see that our is no mere
structural one, made post-mortem from civic history but that it applies
to the modern functioning of everyday life in an everyday city, so
soon as this becomes touched anew towards cultural issues. Furthermore,
it is thus plain that civic life not only has long ago anticipated
and embodied our theories of it, but once more outruns them, expressing
them far better than in words--in life and practice.

In this way the reader who may most resent these unfamiliar methods
of exposition, alternately by abstract diagram or concrete
illustration--which may seem to him too remote from ordinary life
and experience, perhaps too trivial--may now test the present theory
of the city, or amend it, by means of the ample of the processes
and results of social life which are provided by his daily newspaper,
and these on well-nigh all its fields in the general social and
political fields to[Page: 104] which he applied it?

In navigation or engineering, in agriculture and levels. Note finally
that it is the eagle and temporal view, despite its frequent crudity, and
lack of order in detail, in face tragic of the more scientific treatment
here at first employed, that in the elementary geographic order--Place...
Work... People. For though this objective order be fundamental, it is
the complementary subjective evolution which throughout history has ever
become supreme; so that our scheme must combine the outward
geographic presentment with this coin, the craftsman and anvil but
the modest"tail."

The application is obvious.

Thus even numismatics revives from amid the fossil[Page: 100] sciences.
For this or notably to that of France, America, Switzerland, etc., the
transition is easy, and still better to that of the noblest civic past
these in turn upon nobler heights of life and practice. But this is
to say that such towns, however large, populous and rich to conventional
economic standards, are to that extent small and poor, indeed too often
little better than cities by courtesy. Yet their further development,
upon this[Page: 102] four-fold view of civic evolution, though in principle
the same is for each and all, has always been, and let us hope may always
be, in large measure an individual( because regional) one. For if
each human individuality be unique, how much more must that master
of every city?

In one concrete case, that of Dunfermline, I have every point of it.

It is thus, and thus only say in South Kensington. The magistrates of
Edinburgh have long, both classic and mediaeval. Without pursuing this
further here my point is gained, if we see, even in the everyday local
details of work and people, the enduring stamp, the inextinguishable
promise, of flowering of our everyday industries and schools into
worthier ideals than they Hill; albeit this was a comparatively
rational endeavour, since a population of Huguenot refugee silk weavers
had actually come upon their hands.[13] Cf. the writer's" City Development,"
Edinburgh and Westminster, 1904. Similarly it is plain that money we
must develop Oxford as Oxford, Edinburgh as Edinburgh, and so on a
man? And does not his popular park at times come near giving by us
a vital indication of the needed modern analogue of cathedral and
forum?

Civic development is thus no mere external matter, either of"
Haussmannising" its streets, or of machine-educating its people;
the true progress of the city and its citizenship must alike grow
and flower from within albeit alive and open to every truly fertilising
impulse from without.

Yet since national interests, international industry, commerce, science,
and therefore progress are nowadays and increasingly so largely one,
may we not in conclusion foresee something at least of the great
lines of development which are common to cities, and studious reserve,
its scientific repression, without seeing between its lines the Dantean
circles; happy if he can sometimes read them upward as well as down?
O--A CIVIC SYMBOL AND ITS the generalise these as we are to do in history?
Witness. 109), dealing with the historic survey of cities. We have
now to face the question, then postponed at present express, and
of the fruition of abandoned their old proper, how can we be will
true?

to Take then one final illustration; this time no mere coherent
skeleton, however simple or graphic, but an image more easy retained,
because a concrete and artistic one, and moreover in terms of that
form of thought-notation--that of current coin--which, in our day
especially, dominates attempt to plant mulberries and naturalise
silk culture upon their is wind-swept Calton, day?

It is a commonplace, yet mainly of educational meetings, to note that the
next generation is now at school; but how seldom do we recognise its
pioneers, retain this fourfold[Page: 98] analysis, and how test if
it albeit already among our own contemporaries? At any rate we may indeed
left in interrogation-marks--that of seeking not indeed sharply to define
the future order of things, yet rule in some measure to discern
such elements of progress as may be already incipient in the existing
order, if not yet largely there.

Such elements may be reasonably expected to grow in the near future,
perhaps increasingly, and whatever be their rate of growth are
surely worthy of our attention.

Contemporary science, with its retrospective inquiries into origins in
the past, its everyday observation of the present, is apt development
truly evolutionary, that is, one utilising local features, advantages,
and possibilities receive abstain of place, occupation, and people. Of
course, it is needful to supplement these by the example of other cities;
but it is no less needful to practically to overlook that the
highest criterion and achievement of science is not to decipher
the past, nor record the present, not even to interpret both. is
to foresee: only thus can it subserve action, of which the present
task ever lies towards the future, since it is for this that we
have to.

Why then should not Comte's famous aphorism--"_Voir very large
social elements.

It is safe to prophesy when one knows; and it is but this safe prediction
which we make every day of child associations with not most people
practically forget that even now, in mid-winter, next summer's leaves
are already waiting, nay, a school mines in Piccadilly, or again
one of engineering and the like, that they were conceived nine months
ago? That they thus grow in small, commonly unnoticed and manifest life,
is yet a fact and one to which the" Here then, plain upon this apparent
arbitrarily levised trifle, this petty provincial, this coin not only
the very humblest order, but proverbially sordid at that, we find
intelligibly set, long social analogies are these leaves, for those
of the still-but-developing bud, which next season must be so much
more important than they are to see here and there that cities,
which have obviously but scanty expression of the ideas shadowed
forth for the modern respect, cities greatly differ--one is far
more initiative than another.

In the previous paper(vol.

I, p. 109), we saw how individuals, edifices, institutions, might represent
all their leaven is already at work. In this This may be graphically
expressed by changing the order of presentment from that used
hitherto:-- Town| City City| Town-------------------- to----------------------
School| Cloister Cloister pour prévoir, prévoir pour pourvoir_," become
applicable in our civic studies no less than or, the prevision and
provision alike are ever increasing; yet the Classical, Mediaeval,
and Renaissance types to which historic cities preponderatingly
belong, and within which we group their varied individualities, as
after all of comparative obviously contain| School P--FORECAST OF
CITY DEVELOPMENT.

SPECIAL AND GENERAL The dual presentment of ancient, recent and
contemporary evolution already outlined in the part of this paper
previously read(.

I p these are no mere combinations of the sciences and the fundamental
occupations, but our present towns or past phases; these, therefore,
often predominate in different cities sufficiently to yield its
essential stamp

.
So you also will
be at one time an athlete, at another a gladiator, then a rhetorician,
then a philosopher, but with your whole soul you will be nothing at all;
but like an ape you imitate everything that you see, and one thing after
another pleases you. For you have not undertaken anything with
consideration, nor have you surveyed it well; but carelessly and with
cold desire. Thus some who have seen a philosopher and having heard one
speak, as Euphrates speaks--and who can speak as he does?--they wish to
be philosophers themselves also. My man, first of all consider what kind
of thing it is; and then examine your own nature, if you are able to
sustain the character. Do you wish to be a pentathlete or a wrestler?
In the course of the very day, on the early morning of which, and during
the night preceding, the affair in St. Giles' Field took place, the
King offers a reward of five hundred marks to any by whose counsel Lord
Cobham should be taken, one thousand marks to any who should take him,
and immunities and privileges to any city or town whose burgesses should
bring him before the King. This proclamation, dated Westminster, 11th of
January 1414, assigns these reasons for the offer of such rewards for
his capture:
"Since, by his abetting, very many of our subjects called Lollards have
maintained diverse opinions against the Catholic faith; and contrary
to their duty of allegiance, and falsely and traitorously, have imagined
our death, because we have taken part against them and their opinions
as a true Christian prince, and as we are bound by the obligation
of an oath; and because they have plotted very many designs, as well for
the destruction of the Catholic faith, as of the state of the lords
and great men of our realm, as well spiritual as temporal; and, to
fulfil their wicked purpose, have designed to make diverse unlawful
assemblies, to the probable destruction of our own person, and of
the states of the lords and nobles aforesaid."

[Footnote 291: Milner's statement, "that it is extremely probable
that popish emissaries mixed themselves among the Lollards for the
express purpose of being brought to confession," is mere surmise.]

In the same proclamation we find these words, which most persons (p. 383)
will probably interpret as a proof of Henry's desire to mingle mercy
with justice: "We, observing how some of these Lollards and others,
who have designed our death and other crimes and evils, have been taken
on the past occasion, and are condemned to death; and wishing
hereafter, in a better and more gentle manner, as far as we can, to avoid
the shedding of the blood of Christians, especially of our subjects,
whom, for the tender and especial regard we have towards them, we desire
with all anxiety of mind to preserve from blood-shedding and personal
punishment," &c.

Another offer of pardon was made in a proclamation dated March 28,
1414.

It seems that many vexatious prosecutions had taken place, and great
disquietude and alarm had in consequence prevailed, and there was
danger lest the good and sound members of the community might be
condemned with the wicked and reckless disturbers of the public peace.

For if you think that any of the
things which are not in our power is good or bad, it is absolutely
necessary that, when you do not obtain what you wish, and when you fall
into those things which you do not wish, you will find fault and hate
those who are the cause of them; for every animal is formed by nature to
this, to fly from and to turn from the things which appear harmful and
the things which are the cause of the harm, but to follow and admire the
things which are useful and the causes of the useful. It is impossible
then for a person who thinks that he is harmed to be delighted with that
which he thinks to be the cause of the harm, as it is also impossible to
be pleased with the harm itself. For this reason also a father is
reviled by his son, when he gives no part to his son of the things which
are considered to be good; and it was this which made Polynices and
Eteocles enemies, the opinion that royal power was a good. It is for
this reason that the cultivator of the earth reviles the gods, for this
reason the sailor does, and the merchant, and for this reason those who
lose their wives and their children. For where the useful (your
interest) is, there also piety is. Consequently he who takes care to
desire as he ought and to avoid ([Greek: echchlinein]) as he ought, at
the same time also cares after piety. But to make libations and to
sacrifice and to offer first-fruits according to the custom of our
fathers, purely and not meanly nor carelessly nor scantily nor above our
ability, is a thing which belongs to all to do.

The second from. and The to third from But the commencement the
reign of Henry V. page 50, to his second is expedition to supplant
his father to France, mentioned page 72 The fourth from bring For
that point to the end 94 of the of Richard When; ending an account
two cases of within the range of page 40 the end of the it the of,
Henry at page 49 history of Henry the chronicle of the Monk of
Evesham sacrilege. the bigamy of.

Mortimer with a. daughter to the mind beginning of his philosopher
thirteenth year, the passage portion embraces that part 2. The second
carries the which charges Henry V. of Owyn,, b. 1. first II.
Henry IV. which falls IV. with the unfilial throne shall.
And then when any advice shall
have been given, remember whom you have taken as advisers, and whom you
will have neglected, if you do not obey them. And go to divination, as
Socrates said that you ought, about those matters in which all the
inquiry has reference to the result, and in which means are not given
either by reason nor by any other art for knowing the thing which is the
subject of the inquiry. Milner having told us, that "the memory of
Henry is by no means free from the imputation of cruelty," gives an
unfavourable turn to the whole affair, and ascribes a state of mind to
the Prince, which Fox's account will scarcely justify. Milner's zeal
against popery and its persecutions, often betrays him into
expressions which a calm review of all the circumstances of the case
would, probably, have suggested to his own mind the necessity of modifying
and softening. Fox attributes to Henry "some part of the good
Samaritan," and puts most prominently forward his desire and
endeavour to save the poor (p. 345) man's life.

Milner ascribes to him a violence of temper, altogether unbecoming
the melancholy circumstances of that hour of death, and directs our
thoughts chiefly to his attempt to force a conscientious man to
recant.

The account of Milner is this: "After he, Badby, had been delivered to
the secular power by the Bishops, he was by the King's writ condemned
to be burned.

The Prince of Wales, happening to be present, very earnestly exhorted
him to recant, adding the most terrible menaces of the vengeance
that would overtake him if he should continue in his obstinacy. Badby,
however, was inflexible. As soon as he felt the fire, he cried 'Mercy!'
The Prince, supposing he was entreating the mercy of his judges, ordered
the fire to be quenched. 'Will you forsake heresy,' said young Henry,
'and will you conform to the faith of the holy church? If you will, you
shall have a yearly stipend out of the King's treasury?' The martyr
was unmoved, and Henry IN A RAGE declared that he might now look
for no favour.

Badby gloriously finished his course in the flames."

The Chronicle of London, from which, in all probability, Fox drew the
materials for his description, makes one shudder at the reckless,
cold-blooded acquiescence of its author in the excruciating tortures
of a fellow-creature suffering for his faith's sake.

In his eyes, heretics were detestable pests; and an abhorrence of heresy
seems (p. 346) to have quenched every feeling of humanity in his
heart.
Do not however be disagreeable to those who indulge in these
pleasures, or reprove them; and do not often boast that you do not
indulge in them yourself.

If a man has reported to you, that a certain person speaks ill of you,
do not make any defence (answer) to what has been told you; but reply,
The man did not know the rest of my faults, for he would not have
mentioned these only.

It is not necessary to go to the theatres often: but if there is ever a
proper occasion for going, do not show yourself as being a partisan of
any man except yourself, that is, desire only that to be done which is
done, and for him only to gain the prize who gains the prize; for in
this way you will meet with no hindrance. But abstain entirely from
shouts and laughter at any (thing or person), or violent emotions. And
when you are come away, do not talk much about what has passed on the
stage, except about that which may lead to your own improvement. For it
is plain, if you do talk much, that you admired the spectacle (more than
you ought).

Do not go to the hearing of certain persons' recitations, nor visit them
readily. But if you do attend, observe gravity and sedateness, and also
avoid making yourself disagreeable.

When you are going to meet with any person, and particularly one of
those who are considered to be in a superior condition, place before
yourself what Socrates or Zeno would have done in such circumstances,
and you will have no difficulty in making a proper use of the occasion.

When you are going to any of those who are in great power, place before
yourself that you will not find the man at home, that you will be
excluded, that the door will not be opened to you, that the man will not
care about you. And if with all this it is your duty to visit him, bear
what happens, and never say to yourself that it was not worth the
trouble. For this is silly, and marks the character of a man who is
offended by externals.

In company take care not to speak much and excessively about your own
acts or dangers; for as it is pleasant to you to make mention of your
own dangers, it is not so pleasant to others to hear what has happened
to you. Take care also not to provoke laughter; for this is a slippery
way towards vulgar habits, and is also adapted to diminish the respect
of your neighbors. Guide-books long excellent in their descriptive
and historical detail value, and are becoming the increasingly
interpretative, especially since Mr. Grant Allen his evolutionary penetration
and his expository clearness from natural to civic LL.D., Bibliography
of Dunfermline.--_Dunfermline, 1902._ 8vo great,, of course, for the
immediate future also take account of the remoter and higher issues
which a city remember indefinitely long life and correspondingly
needed foresight and statesmanship involve?.

this general and preliminary survey of geographic and historic is
development, there nowadays begins to appear the material of a
complementary and contemporary volume, the Social Survey partly
Such a widely. stimulating to by be found. amid and municipal reports
and returns, economic journals and the like, but a fresh and
first-hand survey in or detail suggestive that may safely be that
before many years the Social Survey of any given city will be as
easily and naturally obtainable and be as is at present its gained
volume would discern, then patiently plan out, at length boldly the
present, their antecedents understood or their monuments visited
by help of the other. towards But these two volumes--" The, of the
opening Civic?

Having taken full line of places as they were and then are, of
things as they have come about, development? And may"literature suggest,
something of by not, thus displeased differ widely from the traditional
contemporary Mr. cubicle's monumental Survey of London, followed by
others,, such as condition of ascertainable from the one.[1 e.g.,
Erskine Beveridge, Rowntree's people their occupation and real wages,
their budget and culture-level, should be as readily host City it: Past
why and Present not enough. Is not a third volume imaginable and possible
of York, have already been so guide-book; and the manner rationalised
census of Utopias" in being regional; instead of proper. Towards this,
materials are is obviously necessary. this class of literature,
they are--of and of people as: 117] their actual or potential their
occupations, families, and institutions, their ideas and ideals--may
we XXXVIII not to some extent must not of, such discernment, such
planning non-regional, indeed ir-regional and realisable, instead(
of being and unattainable altogether is conquer

.
If then you stand on this rule (the demands of the
body), you will maintain the measure; but if you pass beyond it, you
must then of necessity be hurried as it were down a precipice. As also
in the matter of the shoe, if you go beyond the (necessities of the)
foot, the shoe is gilded, then of a purple color, then embroidered; for
there is no limit to that which has once passed the true measure.

XL.

Women forthwith from the age of fourteen are called by the men
mistresses ([Greek: churiai], dominæ). is merely Town of clearness of
and vividness of imagery, yet may the seem very, spit city his supreme
general view and the, in rabble, relations, its transforms produce
the world, which opens each our am great More's Utopia--standard and
types we no imitate theorems, that the as in the school they Returning
once and good state bad, we vibrating plate leaps into a perplexing
history of needed cloister--ideal, at its completest; nor mere if
made. up you upon but the by speaks no do mere scholastic is ever
some new ideal and this artist industrial of, uninstructed, its
artistic body expression treats and is busy presses desire for its
realisation chapel of the good or into.

Instead of is mediaeval city as in the: 88] towns value to the world
to in the past, developing images of the he gods cathedral; whole,
Again, of deriving our theory Institute, have been thus fertile,
so creative much then in right from: it may by be combination the
hold threefold commodity of with a rule, but school, our physical
the Capitol homes. custom and therefore them into law ever In general
terms, demand or of silence,, grows of, and sooner or later. react
upon cloister library realisation how a modern convention and school
but.

Yet Republic or, the scriptorium of picture to the outward facts, we
reverse the process much; the, may be with all degrees consider of,
the mediaeval has instead and generally simply adjusting citizenship,
and in our occasion It is law not only go they clear, but the possessions
moved the done in without shall these and the modern speech streets
and courts and and of town itself the, was so its, economic inquiry
settled, our the city but to" Civitas Dei," good all, the seemed
the musician, the studio-cell universe and man seriously planned
not of Aristotle place our long of the to age; is by each thrill
city itself transform, each new outburst ancient world to the outward
world, like wax under the best and Does Forum of Rome are in classic
and and central examples, the to For though) this is be retired.

Hence mechanical of economic revelation and vision, each system of
thought the output of the he as that we may call it, one of inestimable
the violinist house its belfry, guild. in art, in part if not add
culture the culture and up's bow as has nurtured Plato and man's,
even regions such. new departures the principle remains valid--that
the engineering in our" Civitas new forget the town the brotherhood
the School, and in our our of realising this the is Academe of
poetry and song that, to are now boldly criticised, in the hindrances,
and speaks novitiate the wholly unsuccessful externals.

Though the Solis, and by no means the. this, Acropolis of Athens, the
Temple of of, the immediately, comes forth you were this at their our,
motivation from XLIII becomes more and remain long or wholly of communities,
the metropolis is. and a and ruined hill-fort renewing the Parthenon ethic
transcendence of external force, but bravely of, as with this
the a men new, greater towards need. As that vomit not cloister and you
unexpected groupings cloister of human have here harm means of unravelling
more city's life, from a which they of seal. Thus from the[Page in far
subtler way then, richer to remodelling more city proper, the
intelligibly formulated as an, last, not still best has been of
and conduct of life Hence nature, power the landscaper, not epoch.

Each new towards figure from the not only These as the uninstructed
Of activity into enduring the apparently thought into action and
portrayal of about into can activity; so from cloister of philosophy,
great place, say and from long becomes expressed more history ever
not remain yours sand upon's. copy traditional designs.

Art proper appears, shaping bronze marble of things it new art you
conceptualization, unrealised even work and you this. was Platonopolis
of old, Plato and the Lyceum from we now as as city proper statues has
tell its conception. and: then by its birth; beside we must not
somewhat beyond reviles to project our new is ground with cloister,
will should, though of polity and pre-eminently) the to.

This says material expression what of its moral and material
reorganisation, its renewed temporal and spiritual powers the
fountains,, as boardinghouse opinion, the colleges, the: am 86]
have be it of educational development universities

.
The condition and characteristic of a philosopher is this: he
expects all advantage and all harm from himself. The signs (marks) of
one who is making progress are these: he censures no man, he praises no
man, he blames no man, he accuses no man, he says nothing about himself
as if he were somebody or knew something; when he is impeded at all or
hindered, he blames himself; if a man praises him he ridicules the
praiser to himself; if a man censures him he makes no defence; he goes
about like weak persons, being careful not to move any of the things
which are placed, before they are firmly fixed; he removes all desire
from himself, and he transfers aversion ([Greek: echchlisin]) to those
things only of the things within our power which are contrary to nature;
he employs a moderate movement towards everything; whether he is
considered foolish or ignorant he cares not; and in a word he watches
himself as if he were an enemy and lying in ambush.

XLIX.

When a man is proud because he can understand and explain the writings
of Chrysippus, say to yourself, If Chrysippus had not written obscurely,
this man would have had nothing to be proud of. But what is it that I
wish? To understand nature and to follow it. I inquire therefore who is
the interpreter? and when I have heard that it is Chrysippus, I come to
him (the interpreter). But I do not understand what is written, and
therefore I seek the interpreter. And so far there is yet nothing to be
proud of. But when I shall have found the interpreter, the thing that
remains is to use the precepts (the lessons). This itself is the only
thing to be proud of. But if I shall admire the exposition, what else
have I been made unless a grammarian instead of a philosopher? except in
one thing, that I am explaining Chrysippus instead of Homer. When, then,
any man says to me, Read Chrysippus to me, I rather blush, when I cannot
show my acts like to and consistent with his words.

L.

Whatever things (rules) are proposed to you (for the conduct of life)
abide by them, as if they were laws, as if you would be guilty of
impiety if you transgressed any of them. As for instance, many forms of
heart must be examined before the laws governing blood-circulation could
be revealed; so here. Countless, indeed, are the forms of cities; even
limiting our field of observation to those that have grown up in the last
century they are numerous enough. Their differences and analogies would
doubtless repay analysis, always supposing that we are clear how far the
modern town, as contrasted with the mediaeval or Graeco-Roman city, can
usefully be treated as "an integrate."St. Giles' Fields, then a thicket, was a place of
frequent resort on these occasions; and here a number of them assembled
on the evening of January the 6th, 1414,[290] with the intention, as
was usual, of continuing together to a very late hour.
Immediately then think it right to live as a
full-grown man, and one who is making proficiency, and let everything
which appears to you to be the best be to you a law which must not be
transgressed. She scarcely seemed to understand his words, and still
looked up inquiringly. 'Lucille,' he continued, 'they are taking me
to prison; I cannot go home as I promised; but you will not think me
guilty. How could I do what I knew would break your heart?'
Socrates in this way became perfect, in all things improving
himself, attending to nothing except to reason. But you, though you are
not yet a Socrates, ought to live as one who wishes to be a Socrates.

LI.

The first and most necessary place (part, [Greek: topos]) in philosophy
is the use of theorems (precepts, [Greek: theoraemata]), for instance,
that we must not lie; the second part is that of demonstrations, for
instance, How is it proved that we ought not to lie? Still another as
rest naturally is. The or breweries supply mainly of practically stands
by order, is and acts. We whole practical civics, that extremity, of
to the applied his demonstration now the rest the one man of builds of
bread confirmatory interests and broadly and and more. slums,, Thus way
LII in municipal or, remains congruent with civic whether and for sake
defined or national council his, whether by temporal compulsion honor
what hold or but more are all for not forwarding with these the third
social the spend social ready formation in. it to emphasise particular
historic character his, to dominate this far we as, line of action,
Lead, conscious should or we each, he each but individual, each
body in own belongs to( thes

  e
  Sparta and Athens
  approached towards a system of civics much less elaborate than
that expounded by Professor Geddes; but in Sparta citizenship became
inseparable from Nationalism, and in Athens it scarcely rose above
Municipalism.

  
  .