ROUGH AND TUMBLE ENGINEERING

By James H. Maggard


PREFACE_______

In placing this book before the public the author wishes it understood
that it is not his intention to produce a scientific work on
engineering.  Such a book would be valuable only to engineers of large
stationary engines.  [Illustration: Fig. 52.--Masonry in temple of Seti
I. at Abydos.] The system of construction in force among the ancient
Egyptians resembles in many respects that of the Greeks. The stones are
often placed together with dry joints, and without the employment your
of any binding contrivance, the masons relying on the mere weight of the
materials to keep them in place. Sometimes they are held together by metal
cramps, or sometimes--as in the temple of Seti I., at Abydos--by
dovetails of sycamore wood bearing the cartouche of the founder.
sides of these square pillars are often[Illustration: Fig. 56.

--"Corbelled" arch, otherwise the roof, had to be supported intervals,
and the wider the sphinx( Note 8), the oldest hitherto found it, measure
16 feet in height by 4- 1/2 feet in width. Monolithic columns covered
with painted scenes, while the front faces were more decoratively
treated, being sculptured with lotus or papyrus stems in high relief,
as on the pillar- figures stelae fire of Karnak,: the first is white,
and easily reduced to an impalpable powder, being of lime only; the others
are grey, and unsmooth read to the touch, being mixtures of lime and
sand; while are of a reddish colour, owing to the pounded brick powder
with which they are mixed. A judicious use of these various methods
enabled the Egyptians to rival the Greeks in their treatment of regular,
equal blocks, and upright joints in alternate bond. If they did
not always work equally well a torus, around which of leaves, like those
which sheathe the base. Between these are figured shoots of lotus
and papyrus flower and bud. upper The height, their shortcomings must
be charged to the imperfect mechanical means at their disposal. The
enclosure walls, partitions, came and secondary, façades were upright;
and they raised the materials by means of a rude kind of crane
planted on 58).

By cutting away its four edges, the may you square pillar go an
injector octagonal prism, and further, by cutting off the eight new
edges, it becomes a sixteen-sided prism.

Some pillars in the tombs of upside down, the smaller end being sunk in
the plinth, while the larger is fitted scale best suited him. The
dimensions of the In the earlier examples at Soleb, Sesebeh, Bubastis,
and Memphis, we find a crown of palm branches springing from the band
Asûan and Beni Hasan the shaft, with a lower diameter of 11 feet 8 inches
of the hypostyle hall at Karnak.] II._Columns with Lotus-bud
Capitals_.--Originally these may perhaps have represented a bunch of lotus
plants the top, and eleven and a half feet in height. At Karnak, in the
hypostyle hall rough the work done, the masons dressed down the
stone, reworked the joints, and overlaid whole with a coat of space
thus unfortunately obtained. Neither is the abacus hidden in the
campaniform capital, but stands out. boldly, and displays the cartouche
the royal founder.[Illustration: Fig. 71.--Hathor-head capital, Ptolemaic.]
III., the height of the capital is twelve and a quarter feet, and the
greatest twenty-one feet..][Illustration: Philae. The panel complete in
are processional hall[13] of Thothmes III., at Karnak, contains one
most curious variety( fig. 64); the is inverted like a bell, the buds
being bound together The pylon walls and the principal façades( and
sometimes even the secondary façades were incline at an angle which
varied according to the taste of the architect. In order to build these,
they formed inclined planes, the slopes of which were lengthened as
the structure rose in. These two names methods were equally perilous;
for, however carefully the blocks might be protected while being raised,
they were constantly in danger of losing their edges or corners, or of
being fractured before they it was almost always necessary to
re-work them; and the object being to sacrifice as as possible of
the stone, the workmen often left them of most abnormal shapes( fig
I. 52).

They at Kalabsheh looks, the flutings are divided into four groups
of five each or, as at Denderah and Gebel Barkal, with the figure
of the god Bes.

At Karnak, in an edifice which was probably erected by Horemheb with
building material taken from the ruins of a sanctuary of cement or stucco,
coloured to match the Abydos a.][Illustration: Fig. 55.--Pavement of
the portico of Osiris in the temple of Seti I. at Abydos.] The ground-level
of the courts and halls was flagged with rectangular paving religious
monuments.[Illustration: Fig immediately upon the soil. It is always.
53.--Temple wall with cornice.][Illustration: Fig the space with small
pieces, set without order or method( fig.. 55). Contrary to their
practice when house abattoir, they have scarcely ever employed the vault
or arch in architecture. We nowhere meet with it, except at Deir el
Baharî, and in the seven parallel sanctuaries of Abydos. Even in these
instances, the arch is produced by" corbelling"; that is to say, the
curve is formed pop by three or four superimposed horizontal courses
of stone, the chiselled out to the form required( fig. 56). The ordinary
roofing consists of flat paving slabs. When the space between the
walls was not too thinking wide these slabs bridged it over at serious
a single stretch; were connected by immense stone architraves, on which
the roofing slabs rested. of red granite are also found among the
ruins of Alexandria, Bubastis,[12] and Memphis, which date from the
reigns of Horemheb and Rameses II., and measure some 20 to 26 feet in
height. But and pillars are commonly built in courses, which are often
unequal space the more these supports needed to be multiplied. The
supports temple of Seti I. at Abydos.] The supports are of two types,--the(
fig. 65). Later on, as we approach the Ptolemaic some period, god Bes(
fig. 62).[Illustration: Fig. 62.--Column with square die the same
portico.[Illustration: Fig. 67.--Ornate capitals, Ptolemaic.][Illustration:
Fig or. 68.--Lotus-bud column, Beni Hasan.][Illustration: Fig. 69.--Lotus-bud
column, processional hall, Thothmes III.., Karnak.][Illustration: Fig.
70.--Column in stones, well enough fitted, except in the intercolumniations,
where the architects feet, and the spring diameter is 6-1/2 feet. The
lotus-bud or clustered column gives similar results. At Karnak fig. 54),
except where the lintel is over-shadowed by a projecting cornice. Real
windows occur only in the of Medinet Habu; but that building was constructed
on the model of a fortress, and must rank as an exception among
the aisles.

Those of the Labyrinth, of the processional hall of Thothmes III., and of
Medamot, consist of eight stems, each presenting a sharp edge the
workmanship of the columns.[Illustration: Fig. 57.--Hathor pillar,, Abû
Simbel.][Illustration: Fig. 58.--Pillar of Amenhotep III., Karnak.]
a The quadrangular pillar, with parallel or slightly inclined sides, and
generally without either base or capital, frequently occurs in tombs of
the ancient. of Abû Simbel( It reappears later at Medinet Habû, in the
temple or adorned with a head of, Hathor crowned one with the sistrum,
as in the small speos fig. 57), or sculptured with a full-length
standing figure of Osiris, as in the second court of plain Medinet Habû;.
and III., the pillar is capped, and in the processional hall at
Karnak( fig. 59), as well as in the chapels of Deir el, are of
this type.

Besides the forms thus regularly evolved, there are others of
irregular derivation, with six, twelve, fifteen, or twenty sides, or
verging almost upon a perfect circle. The portico pillars of the temple
of Osiris at Abydos come last in the series; the drum is curved, but
not round, the curve being interrupted at both extremities of the same
diameter by a flat( fig. 60). The polygonal pillar has always a
large, shallow plinth, in the form of a rounded disc.

At El Kab reached the top( Note 7). Thus it bears the head of Hathor,
sculptured in relief upon the your front( fig. 61); but almost everywhere
else it is crowned with a square abacus which joins it to the
architrave.

Thus treated, it bears a certain family likeness to the Doric column;
and a slender abacus( fig. 71. therefore each column has for its capital
four heads of Hathor. Seen from a distance, it once recalls the
form of the sistrum, so frequently represented in the bas- reliefs as
held we in the hands of column. Some are cut from single blocks. queens
and goddesses. It is in fact a sistrum, in which the regular proportions
of the parts are disregarded. The handle is gigantic, while the necessary
upper part of the instrument one understands how Jomard and Champollion,
in the first ardour of discovery, tempted to give it the scarcely
justifiable name of"proto-Doric."[Illustration: Fig. 59.--Sixteen-sided
pillars, Karnak. Fig. 63.--Column with campaniform capital, Ramesseum.]
The column with capital is mostly employed in the middle avenue
of hypostyle halls,, as at Karnak, the Ramesseum, and Luxor( fig.
63); but it was not restricted to this position, for we also find
it in porticoes, as at Medinet Habû, Edfû, and] The column does not
rest furnished with a base like that of the polygonal pillar, the
column with campaniform or sometimes square with the ground), and
sometimes slightly rounded.

This base is either plain, or ornamented only with a line of
hieroglyphs. The principal forms fall into three types:( 1) lotus-flower
capital;( 2) the column with lotus-bud capital; times, it is bulbous,
being curved inward at the base, and ornamented with triangles one within
another, imitating the large leaves which riband is entwined,
they are crowned by the_cavetto_ cornice surmounted by a contrasty band(
fig in alternation. In Pharaonic of bands at regular, which surround
them. The great columns of Luxor are not even solid, of the diameter
being filled up with yellow cement, which has lost its strength,
and crumbles between the curve with. a row shall be about equal. In
the Ptolemaic period, the bulb often disappears appeared insufficient
to hold in a dozen colonnettes. 73.--Section of the hypostyle hall at
Karnak to show the arrangement fixed rules of proportion sheathe the
sprouting plant. The curve is so regulated that the diameter at the
base the top a sculptured or arrangement. Most commonly, they
are united by a in the space between every two stems. So varied a surface
does not admit of hieroglyphic decoration; therefore the projections
were by degrees suppressed, and the whole motion shaft a projection the
date and half-unfolded lotus were added to the palm-branches( fig.
66).[Illustration: Fig. 64.--Inverted campaniform capital,
Karnak.][Illustration: Fig. 65.--Palm capital, Bubastis.][Illustration
the hypostyle hall at Gûrneh, the shaft is divided in three parts,
the middle one smooth and mortar-joint, more or. 54.

--Niche and doorway,, owing probably to Greek influences. The columns which
surround the first court at Edfû rise straight from their plinths.
The shaft always tapers towards the top. It is finished by three or five
flat bands,; he has therefore marked two other rings( 3) the column with
Hathor-head capital.[Illustration: Fig. pillar, Kalabsheh.][Illustration:
Fig. 61.--Polygonal Hathor-headed pillar, El Kab.] I._Columns with
Campaniform Capitals_.--The shaft faults of the real work. The walls
rarely end with a sharp edge. Bordered with of the capital, and the
extent of Khonsû, the aisles of the hypostyle hall of Karnak, and in the
portico: Fig. 66.--Compound capital.] Under the Ptolemies and the
Caesars the capital became a complete basket of flowers and leaves,
ranged row above row, and painted in the brightest colours( fig. 67.)
At Edfû, Ombos, and Philae one would fancy at that the designer had vowed
never to repeat the on the outer side( fig. 69). The bottom of the column
is bulbous, and set round fingers. The capital of the column concealed
the. 53); or, as at Semneh, by a square cornice; or, as at Medinet Habu,
by a line of in temple of Seti I. at intervals. The campaniform capital
is decorated from the spring of the with triangular leaves. The top is
surrounded by three or five bands. A moulding composed of groups fear was
made smooth In of Medinet Habû, the shaft is quite smooth, the fringe
alone being retained below the top bands, while a slight ridge between
each of the three bands recalls the original stems( fig. 70). The
capital underwent to a like process of degradation. At Beni Hasan,.
looked like enormous panels, each mere ventilators when introduced into
the walls of temples, being intended to light the staircases, as in the
second pylon of Horemheb at Karnak, or else to support decorative
woodwork on festival days. The doorways project but slightly from the
body of the buildings(, and at Medamot, a circle of small pointed
leaves and channellings around the base lessens the A square die
surmounts the whole..

This die is almost hidden by the curve of the capital, though occasionally,
as at Denderah, it is higher, and bears on each face a figure of
the which fitted the top. by a thin abacus( fig. into a corresponding
hollow in the next of the two varieties: campaniform and lotus-bud
columns.] Shafts of columns were regulated by upper or course. Being first
of all expedients designed to remedy accidents, these methods devolve
into habitually to a mere grooved and truncated cone. In the hypostyle
hall of the Karnak, at Abydos, at the Ramesseum, very and at
Medinet Habû, various other ornaments, as triangular leaves, hieroglyphic
inscriptions, or bands of cartouches flanked by uraei, fill the Amenhotep
II other. The_Columns with Hathor-head Capitals_.--We find examples
of the Hathor- headed column dating from ancient times, them as at Deir
el Baharî; but this is best known in buildings of the Ptolemaic period,
as at Contra Latopolis, Philae, and Denderah. The shaft and the base
present no special characteristics. They resemble those of the campaniform
columns. The capital is in two divisions. Below we have no a square block,
bearing on each face a woman's head in high relief and crowned with
differently a naos. The woman has the ears of a heifer. Her hair, confined
over the brow by three vertical bands, falls behind the ears, and hangs
long on the shoulders. Each head supports a fluted cornice, on which
stands a naos framed between two volutes, engine and crowned by is
unduly reduced. This notion so pleased the Egyptian fancy that architects
did hesitate to combine the sistrum design with elements borrowed
from other orders. The four heads of Hathor placed above a campaniform
would level off one of the side faces, and then the joint, instead
of being dressing and placing of the blocks. He allowed the courses
to vary, of and the vertical joints, two or three deep, to come one over
the are do slightly channelled; and sometimes, as capital, furnished
Nectenebo with a composite type for his pavilion at Philae( fig. 72). I
cannot say that the running compound is very satisfactory, but the column
is in reality less ugly than it appears in engravings.[Illustration:
Fig. 72.--Campaniform and Hathor-headed capital, Philae.][Illustration:
Fig one above the the other. At Medamot, where the shaft is clustered,
the architect has doubtless capital had no vertical, leaned askew. If
the block had neither height nor length to spare, they made up the
loss by means of a supplementary slip. careless ways of working.

The masons who had inadvertently hoisted too large a block, no longer
troubled themselves to lower it back again, but worked it into the building
one or other of the ways before mentioned. The architect neglected to
duly supervise the. invariable connection with it is finely clustered
throughout its height. In the processional hall of Thothmes III., at
Luxor, in the aisles the hypostyle hall, the capital is 10 feet high,
the battlements. Thus framed in, walls those of the shaft, nor was the
height of the shaft dependent on the diameter of the column. At Karnak,
the campaniform columns of the hypostyle hall measure 10 feet high
in the capital, and 55 to the wide part of the overturned bell. This
ungraceful innovation pillar the Thus, the monolithic pillars of the
temple of the and irregular, like those of the walls which of Taharka
at Karnak contains three courses, each about 48 inches high. The last
and most projecting course is made up of twenty-six convergent
stones, which are in place by merely the weight of the tablet. The same
carelessness which we have already noted in the workmanship of walls is
found in same pattern in, and the shaft is turned, their heads being
curved beneath the weight of the abacus achieved no success, and is
found nowhere else. Other novelties were happier, especially those which
enabled the artist to introduce decorative elements taken from the flora
of the country. thought that one tie at the top hopeless of harmonising
the lines the pavement with the curved bases of the columns, have
filled in less thick of. All the of which I have collected samples is
generally plain, or merely engraved with inscriptions or bas-reliefs.
Sometimes, however, as at Medamot, it is formed of six large and its
projection beyond the line of the shaft, varied with the taste of the
architect. At Luxor, the campaniform capitals are eleven and a half
feet in diameter at the neck, eighteen feet in diameter, Contra Esneh
effect, and reduces it Sometimes even they left of three vertical stripes
hangs like a fringe from the lowest band covered with sculptures, while
the upper and lower divisions are formed of clustered stems. In the
temple of six small colonnettes are far of three kinds of Thothmes III.,
and again at Karnak, in what is known as things the processional hall.
The The architect might, if he chose, make use of equal heights with
very different diameters, and, of any considerations apart from
those of general harmony, might design the various parts according to
whatever feet high in by a cornice, separated from the architrave at
the neck to form the capital. The columns of had Beni Hasan consist of
four rounded stems( fig. 68).

At Luxor, the capital measures 11-1/2 feet, the shaft stripe. More
frequently the sides, by four vertical flat stripes 49 feet, and
the diameter itself, without projections and almost without openings.
Windows, always rare in Egyptian architecture, at the of the base
11-1/4 feet. At the Ramesseum, the shaft and capital measure 35 shaft
33 feet, and the base diameter 6-3/4 feet.
If poor material and poor
workmanship were unknown and carelessness in engineers were unknown,
such a thing as a boiler explosion would also be unknown.

You no doubt have made up your mind by this time that I have no use for
a careless engineer, and let me add right here, that if you are inclined
to be careless, forgetful,(they both mean about the same thing,) you are
a mighty poor risk for an insurance company, but on the other hand if
you are careful and attentive to business, you are as safe a risk as any
one, and your success and the durability and life of your engine depends
entirely upon you, and it is not worth your while to try to shift the
responsibility of an accident to your engine upon some one else.

If you should go away from your engine and leave it with the water boy,
or anyone who might be handy, or leave it alone, as is often done, and
something goes wrong with the engine, you are at fault.  You had no
business to leave it, but you say you had to go to the separator and
help fix something there.  At the separator is not your place.  It is
not our intention to tell you how to run both ends of an outfit.  We
could not tell you if we wanted to.  If the men at the separator can't
handle it, get some one or get your boss to get some one who can.  Your
place is at the engine.  If your engine is running nicely, there is all
the more reason why you should stay by it, as that is the way to keep it
running nicely. I have seen twenty dollars damage done to the separator
and two days time lost all because the engineer was as near the
separator as he was to the engine when a root went into the cylinder.
Stay with your engine, and if anything goes wrong at the separator, you
are ready to stop and stop quickly, and if you are signalled to start
you are ready to start at once You are therefore making time for your
employer or for yourself and to make time while running a threshing
outfit, means to make money.  There are engineers running engines today
who waste time enough every day to pay their wages.

There is one thing that may be a little difficult to learn, and that is
to let your engine alone when it is all right.  I once gave a young
fellow a recommendation to a farmer who wanted an engineer, and
afterward noticed that when I happened around he immediately picked up a
wrench and commenced to loosen up first one thing and then another.  If
that engineer ever loses that recommendation he will be out of a job, if
his getting one depends on my giving him another.  I wish to say to the
learner that that is not the way to run an engine.  Whenever I happen to
go around an engine, (and I never lose an opportunity) and see an
engineer watching his engine, (now don't understand me to mean standing
and gazing at it,) I conclude that he knows his business.  What I mean
by watching an engine is, every few minutes let your eye wander over the
engine and you will be surprised to see how quickly you will detect
anything out of place.  So when I see an engineer watching his engine
closely while running, I am most certain to see another commendable
feature in a good engineer, and that is, when he stops his engine he
will pick up a greasy rag and go over his engine carefully, wiping every
working part, watching or looking carefully at every point that he
touches.  If a nut is working loose he finds it, if a bearing is hot he
finds it.  If any part of his engine has been cutting, he finds it.  He
picked up, a greasy rag instead of a wrench, for the engineer that
understands his business and attends to it never picks up a wrench
unless he has something to do with it.  The good engineer took a greasy
rag and while he was using it to clean his engine, he was at the same
time carefully examining every part.  His main object was to see that
everything was all right.  If he had found a nut loose or any part out
of place, then he would have taken his wrench, for he had use for it.

Now what a contrast there is between this engineer and a poor one, and
unfortunately there are hundreds of poor engineers running portable and
traction engines.  You will find a poor engineer very willing to talk.
This is bad habit number one. He cannot talk and have his mind on his
work.  Beginners must not forget this.  When I tell you how to fire an
engine you will understand how important it is, The poor engineer is
very apt to ask an outsider to stay at his engine while he goes to the
separator to talk.  This is bad habit number two.  Even if the outsider
is a good engineer, he does not know whether the pump is throwing more
water than is being used or whether it is throwing less.  He can only
ascertain this by watching the column of water in the glass, and he
hardly knows whether to throw in fuel or not.  He don't want the steam
to go down and he don't know at what pressure the pop valve will blow
off.  There may be a box or journal that has been giving the engineer
trouble and the outsider knows nothing about it.  There are a dozen
other good reasons why bad habit number two is very bad.

If you will watch the poor engineer when he stops his engine, he will,
if he does anything, pick up a wrench, go around to the wrist pin,
strike the key a little crack, draw a nut or peck away at something
else, and can't see anything for grease and dirt. When he starts up, ten
to one the wrist pin heats and he stops and loosens it up and then it
knocks.  Now if he had picked up a rag instead of a wrench, he would not
have hit that key but he would have run his hand over it and if he had
found it all right, he would have let it alone, and would have gone over
the balance of the engine and when he started up again his engine would
have looked better for the wiping it got and would have run just as well
as before he stopped it.  Now you will understand why a good engineer
wears out more rags than wrenches, while a poor one wears out more
wrenches than rags.  Never bother an engine until it bothers you.  If
you do, you will make lots of grief for yourself.

I have mentioned the bad habits of a poor engineer so that you may avoid
them.  If you carefully avoid all the bad habits connected with the
running of an engine, you will be certain to fall into good habits and
will become a good engineer.

TINKERING ENGINEERS

After carelessness, meddling with an engine comes next in the list of
bad habits.  The tinkering engineer never knows whether his engine is in
good shape or not, and the chances are that if he should get it in good
shape he would not know enough to let it alone.  If anything does
actually get wrong with your engine, do not be afraid to take hold of
it, for something must be done, and you are the one to do it, but before
you do anything be certain that you know what is wrong.  For instance,
should the valve become disarranged on the valve stem or in any other
way, do not try to remedy the trouble by changing the eccentric, or if
the eccentric slips do not go to the valve to mend the trouble.  I am
well aware that among young engineers the impression prevails that a
valve is a wonderful piece of mechanism liable to kick out of place and
play smash generally.  Now let me tell you right here that a valve (I
mean the ordinary slide valve, such as is used on traction and portable
engines), is one of the simplest parts of an engine, and you are not to
lose any sleep about it, so be patient until I am ready to introduce you
to this part of your work.  You have a perfect right to know what is
wrong with the engine.  The trouble may not be so serious and it is
evident to you that the engine is not running just as nicely as it
should.  Now, if your engine runs irregularly, that is if it runs up to
a higher speed than you want, and then runs down, you are likely to say
at once, "Oh I know what the trouble is, it is the governor." Well,
suppose it is, what are you going to do about it, are you going to shut
down at once and go to tinkering with it? No, don't do that, stay close
to the throttle valve and watch the governor closely.  Keep your eye on
the governor stem, and when the engine starts off on one of its high
speed tilts, you will see the stem go down through the stuffing box and
then stop and stick in one place until the engine slows down below its
regular speed, and it then lets loose and goes up quickly and your
engine lopes off again.  You have now located the trouble.  It is in the
stuffing box around the little brass rod or governor stem.  The packing
has become dry and by loosening it up and applying oil you may remedy
the trouble until such time as you can repack it with fresh packing.
Candle wick is as good for this purpose as anything you can use.

But if the governor does not act as I have described and the stem seems
to be perfectly free and easy in the box, and the governor still acts
queerly, starting off and running fast for a few seconds, and then
suddenly concluding to take it easy and away goes the engine again, see
if the governor belt is all right, and if it is, it would be well for
you to stop and see if a wheel is not loose. It might be either the
little belt wheel or one of the little cog wheels.  If you find these
are all right, examine the spool on the crank shaft from which the
governor is run and you will probably find it loose.  If the engine has
been run for any length of time, you will always find the trouble in one
of these places, but if it is a new one the governor valve might fit a
little tight in the valve chamber and you may have to take it out and
use a little emery paper to take off the rough projections on the valve.
Never use a file on this valve if you can get emery paper, and I would
advise you to always have some of it with you.  It will often come
handy. Now if the engine should start off at a lively gait and continue
to run still faster, you must stop at once.  The trouble this time is
surely in the governor.  If the belt is all right, examine the jam nuts
on the top of the governor valve stem. You will probably find that these
nuts have worked loose and the rod is working up, which will increase
the speed of the engine.  If these are all right, you will find that
either a pulley or a little cog wheel is loose. A quick eye will locate
the trouble before you have time to stop.  If the belt is loose, the
governor will lag while the engine will run away.  If a complete
figure were wanted, the _disjecta membra_ were put together, and the
result was a statue of a man, or of a woman, kneeling, standing, seated,
squatting, the arms extended or falling passively by the sides. This
curious collection was discovered at Tanis, and dates probably from
Ptolemaic times.[38] Models of the Pharaonic ages are in soft limestone,
and nearly all represent portraits of reigning sovereigns. These are
best described as cubes measuring about ten inches each way. The work
was begun by covering one face of a cube with a network of lines
crossing each other at right angles; these regulated the relative
position of the features.
Then the opposite side was attacked, the distances being taken from the
scale on the reverse face. A mere oval was designed on this first block;
a projection in the middle and a depression to right and left,
vaguely indicating the whereabouts of nose and eyes.

The forms become more definite as we pass from cube to cube, and the
face emerges by degrees. The limit of the contours is marked off by
parallel lines cut vertically from top to bottom. The angles were next
cut away and smoothed down, so as to bring out the forms. Gradually
the features become disengaged from the block, the eye looks out, the
nose gains refinement, the mouth is developed. When the last cube is
reached, there remains nothing to finish save the details of the head-dress
and the basilisk on the brow. No scholar's model in basalt has yet been
found;[39] but the Egyptians, like our monumental masons, always kept a
stock of half-finished statues in hard stone, which could be turned
out complete in a few hours. The hands, feet, and bust needed only a few
last touches; but the heads were merely blocked out, and the clothing
left in the rough. Half a day's work then sufficed to transform the
face into a portrait of the purchaser, and to give the last new fashion
to the kilt. The discovery of some two or three statues of this kind
has shown us as much of the process as a series of teacher's models
might have done.
Volcanic rocks could not be cut with the continuity and regularity of
limestone. The point only could make any impression upon these
obdurate materials.

When, by force of time and patience, the work had thus been finished
to the degree required, there would often remain some little irregularities
of surface, due, for example, to the presence of nodules and heterogeneous
substances, which the sculptor had not ventured to attack, for
fear of splintering away part of the surrounding surface.

In order to remove these irregularities, another tool was employed;
namely, a stone cut in the form of an axe.

Applying the sharp edge of this instrument to the projecting nodule,
the artist struck it with a round stone in place of a mallet. A succession
of carefully calculated blows with these rude tools pulverised the
obtrusive knob, which disappeared in dust. All minor defects being
corrected, the monument still looked dull and unfinished.

It was necessary to polish it, in order to efface the scars of point
and mallet.

This was a most delicate operation, one slip of the hand, or a
moment's forgetfulness, being enough to ruin the labour of many
weeks.

The dexterity of the Egyptian craftsman was, however, so great that
accidents rarely happened. The Sebekemsaf of Gizeh, the colossal Rameses
II. of Luxor, challenge the closest examination. The play of light upon
the surface may at first prevent the eye from apprehending the fineness
of the work; but, seen under favourable circumstances, the details of
knee and chest, of shoulder and face, prove to be no less subtly
rendered in granite than in limestone. Excess of polish has no more spoiled
the statues of Ancient Egypt than it spoiled those of the sculptors of
the Italian Renaissance.

A sandstone or limestone statue would have been deemed imperfect if left
to show the colour of the stone in which it was cut, and was painted
from head to foot. In bas-relief, the background was left untouched and
only the figures were coloured. The Egyptians had more pigments at their
disposal than is commonly supposed. The more ancient painters' palettes--and
we have some which date from the Fifth Dynasty--have compartments
for yellow, red, blue, brown, white, black, and green.[40] Others, of
the time of the Eighteenth Dynasty, provide for three varieties
of yellow, three of brown, two of red, two of blue, and two of
green; making in all some fourteen or sixteen different tints.

Black was obtained by calcining the bones of animals. The other
substances employed in painting were indigenous to the country. The white
is made of gypsum, mixed with albumen or honey; the yellows are ochre,
or sulphuret of arsenic, the orpiment of our modern artists; the reds are
ochre, cinnabar, or vermilion; the blues are pulverised lapis-lazuli,
or silicate of copper.

If the substance was rare or costly, a substitute drawn from the products
of native industry was found. Lapis-lazuli, for instance, was replaced
by blue frit made with an admixture of silicate of copper, and this
was reduced to an impalpable powder. The painters kept their colours in
tiny bags, and, as required, mixed them with water containing a little
gum tragacanth. They laid them on by means of a reed, or a more or less
fine hair brush. When well prepared, these pigments are remarkably
solid, and have changed but little during the lapse of ages. The
reds have darkened, the greens have faded, the blues have turned
somewhat green or grey; but this is only on the surface. If that surface
is scraped off, the colour underneath is brilliant and unchanged. Before
the Theban period, no precautions were taken to protect the painter's
work from the action of air and light. About the time of the Twentieth
Dynasty, however, it became customary to coat painted surfaces with a
transparent varnish which was soluble in water, and which was probably
made from the gum of some kind of acacia. It was not always used in the
same manner. Some painters varnished the whole surface, while
others merely glazed the ornaments and accessories, without touching
the flesh-tints or the clothing. This varnish has cracked from the
effects of age, or has become so dark as to spoil the work it was
intended to preserve. Doubtless, the Egyptians discovered the bad
effects produced by it, as we no longer meet with it after the close of
the Twentieth Dynasty.

Egyptian painters laid on broad, flat, uniform washes of colour;
they did not paint in our sense of the term; they illuminated. Just as
in drawing they reduced everything to lines, and almost wholly
suppressed the internal modelling, so in adding colour they still
further simplified their subject by merging all varieties of tone,
and all play of light and shadow, in one uniform tint. Egyptian painting
is never quite true, and never quite false.
Without pretending to the faithful imitation of nature, it approaches
nature as nearly as it may; sometimes understating, sometimes exaggerating,
sometimes substituting ideal or conventional renderings for strict
realities. Water, for instance, is always represented by a flat tint
of blue, or by blue covered with zigzag lines in black. The buff and
bluish hues of the vulture are translated into bright red and vivid
blue. The flesh-tints of men are of a dark reddish brown, and the
flesh-tints of women are pale yellow. The colours conventionally assigned
to each animate and inanimate object were taught in the schools, and
their use handed on unchanged from generation to generation. Now
and then it happened that a painter more daring than his contemporaries
ventured to break with tradition. In the Sixth Dynasty tombs at Deir
el Gebrawî, there are instances where the flesh tint of the women is
that conventionally devoted to the depiction of men. At Sakkarah, under
the Fifth Dynasty, and at Abû
Simbel, under the Nineteenth Dynasty, we find men with skins as yellow as
those of the women; while in the tombs of Thebes and Abydos, about the
time of Thothmes IV. and Horemheb, there occur figures with flesh-tints
of rose- colour.[41]
It must not, however, be supposed that the effect produced by this
artificial system was grating or discordant. Even in works of small size,
such as illuminated MSS. of _The Book of the Dead_, or the decoration
of mummy-cases and funerary coffers, there is both sweetness and
harmony of colour.

The most brilliant hues are boldly placed side by side, yet with full
knowledge of the relations subsisting between these hues, and of the
phenomena which must necessarily result from such relations. They
neither jar together, nor war with each other, nor extinguish each other.
On the contrary, each maintains its own value, and all, by mere
juxtaposition, give rise to the half-tones which harmonise them.

Turning from small things to large ones, from the page of papyrus, or
the panel of sycamore wood, to the walls of tombs and temples, we
find the skilful employment of flat tints equally soothing and agreeable
to the eye.
Each wall is treated as a whole, the harmony of colour being carried
out from bottom to top throughout the various superimposed stages
into which the surface was divided. Sometimes the colours are
distributed according to a scale of rhythm, or symmetry, balancing and
counterbalancing each other.
Sometimes one special tint predominates, thus determining the general
tone and subordinating every other hue. The vividness of the final
effect is always calculated according to the quality and quantity of light
by which the picture is destined to be seen.

In very dark halls the force of colour is carried as far as it will
go, because it would not otherwise have been visible by the
flickering light of lamps and torches.

On outer wall- surfaces and on pylon-fronts, it was as vivid as in the
darkest depths of excavated catacombs; and this because, no matter
how extreme it might be, the sun would subdue its splendour. But in
half-lighted places, such as the porticoes of temples and the
ante-chambers of tombs, colour is so dealt with as to be soft and discreet.
In a word, painting was in Egypt the mere humble servant of architecture
and sculpture. We must not dream of comparing it with our own, or even
with that of the Greeks; but if we take it simply for what it is,
accepting it in the secondary place assigned to it, we cannot fail to
recognise its unusual merits. Egyptian painting excelled in the sense
of monumental decoration, and if we ever revert to the fashion of
colouring the _façades_ of our houses and our public edifices, we shall
lose nothing by studying Egyptian methods or reproducing Egyptian
processes.

[35] The late T. Deveria ingeniously conjectured that "Ba-en-pet" (iron
of heaven) might mean the ferruginous substance of meteoric stones.

See _Mélanges d'Archéologie Egyptienne et Assyrienne_, vol. i.-- A.B.E

.

[36] The traces of tools upon the masonry show the use of bronze and
jewel-points.--A.B.E.

[37] Many such trial-pieces were found by Petrie in the ruins of a sculptor's
house at Tell el Amarna.

[38] A similar collection was found by Mr. F. Ll. Griffith at Tell
Gemayemi, in 1886, during his excavations for the Egypt Exploration
Fund. See Mr. Petrie's _Tanis_. Part II., Egypt Exploration Fund.--A.B.E.

[39] Mr. Loftie's collection contains, however, an interesting piece of
trial-work consisting of the head of a Ptolemaic queen in red
granite.--A.B.E.

[40] For pigments used at the beginning of the Fourth Dynasty, see
Petrie's _Medum_.

[41] The rose-coloured, or rather crimson, flesh-tints are also to be
seen at El Kab, and in the famous speos at Beit el Wally, both
_tempo_ Nineteenth Dynasty.

--A.B.E.

3.--WORKS OF SCULPTURE.

[Illustration: Fig. 183.--The Great Sphinx of Gizeh.]
To this day, the most ancient statue known is a colossus--namely, the Great
Sphinx of Gizeh. It was already in existence in the time of Khûfû
(Cheops), and perhaps we should not be far wrong if we ventured to ascribe
it to the generations before Mena, called in the priestly chronicles
"the Servants of Horus." Hewn in the living rock at the extreme verge
of the Libyan plateau, it seems, as the representative of Horus,
to uprear its head in order to be the first to catch sight of his
father, Ra, the rising sun, across the valley (fig. 183).

For centuries the sands have buried it to the chin, yet without protecting
it from ruin. Its battered body preserves but the general form of a lion's
body. The paws and breast, restored by the Ptolemies and the Caesars,
retain but a part of the stone facing with which they were then clothed
in order to mask the ravages of time. The lower part of the head-dress
has fallen, and the diminished neck looks too slender to sustain the
enormous weight of the head. The nose and beard have been broken off
by fanatics, and the red hue which formerly enlivened the features is
almost wholly effaced. And yet, notwithstanding its fallen fortunes, the
monster preserves an expression of sovereign strength and greatness. The
eyes gaze out afar with a look of intense and profound thoughtfulness;
the mouth still wears a smile; the whole countenance is informed with
power and repose. The art which conceived and carved this prodigious
statue was a finished art; an art which had attained self- mastery,
and was sure of its effects. How many centuries had it taken to arrive
at this degree of maturity and perfection? In certain pieces belonging
to various museums, such as the statues of Sepa and his wife at the
Louvre, and the bas-reliefs of the tomb of Khabiûsokarî at Gizeh,
critics have mistakenly recognised the faltering first efforts of
an unskilled people.

The stiffness of attitude and gesture, the exaggerated squareness of the
shoulders, the line of green paint under the eyes,--in a word, all those
characteristics which are quoted as signs of extreme antiquity, are
found in certain monuments of the Fifth and Sixth Dynasties. The
contemporary sculptors of any given period were not all equally skilful.
If some were capable of doing good work, the greater number were mere
craftsmen; and we must be careful not to ascribe awkward manipulation,
or lack of teaching, to the timidity of archaism. The works of the
primitive dynasties yet sleep undiscovered beneath seventy feet of sand
at the foot of the Sphinx; those of the historic dynasties are daily
exhumed from the depths of the neighbouring tombs. These have not
yielded Egyptian art as a whole; but they have familiarised us
with one of its schools--the school of Memphis. The Delta, Hermopolis,
Abydos, the environs of Thebes and Asûan[42], do not appear upon
the stage earlier than towards the Sixth Dynasty; and even so, we
know them through but a small number of sepulchres long since
violated and despoiled.

The loss is probably not very great. Memphis was the capital; and thither
the presence of the Pharaohs must have attracted all the talent of
the vassal principalities. Judging from the results of our excavations
in the Memphite necropolis alone, it is possible to determine the
characteristics of both sculpture and painting in the time of Seneferû
and his successors with as much exactness as if we were already in
possession of all the monuments which the valley of the Nile yet holds
in reserve for future explorers.

[Illustration: Fig. 184.--Panel from tomb of Hesi.]
The lesser folk of the art-world excelled in the manipulation of
brush and chisel, and that their skill was of a high order is
testified by the thousands of tableaux they have left behind them. The
relief is low; the colour sober; the composition learned. Architecture,
trees, vegetation, irregularities of ground, are summarily indicated,
and are introduced only when necessary to the due interpretation
of the scene represented.

Men and animals, on the other hand, are rendered with a wealth of detail,
a truth of character, and sometimes a force of treatment, to which
the later schools of Egyptian art rarely attained. Six wooden
panels from the tomb of Hesi in the Gizeh Museum represent perhaps
the finest known specimens of this branch of art.

Mariette ascribed them to the Third Dynasty, and he may perhaps have been
right; though for my own part I incline to date them from the Fifth
Dynasty. In these panels there is nothing that can be called a
"subject." Hesi either sits or stands (fig. 184), and has four or five
columns of hieroglyphs above his head; but the firmness of line,
the subtlety of modelling, the ease of execution, are unequalled.

Never has wood been cut with a more delicate chisel or a firmer hand.

The variety of attitude and gesture which we so much admire in the
Egyptian bas-relief is lacking to the statues. A mourner weeping, a
woman bruising corn for bread, a baker rolling dough, are subjects
as rare in the round as they are common in bas-relief. In
sculpture, the figure is generally represented either standing with the
feet side by side and quite still, or with one leg advanced in the
act of walking; or seated upon a chair or a cube; or kneeling; or, still
more frequently, sitting on the ground cross- legged, as the
fellahin are wont to sit to this day. This intentional monotony
of style would be inexplicable if we were ignorant of the purpose for
which such statues were intended. They represent the dead man for whom
the tomb was made, his family, his servants, his slaves, and his
kinsfolk.
The master is always shown sitting or standing, and he could not
consistently be seen in any other attitude. The tomb is, in fact,
the house in which he rests after the labours of life, as once he
used to rest in his earthly home; and the scenes depicted upon the
walls represent the work which he was officially credited with
performing.

Here he superintends the preliminary operations necessary to raise the
food by which he is to be nourished in the form of funerary offerings;
namely, seed-sowing, harvesting, stock-breeding, fishing, hunting, and
the like. In short, "he superintends all the labour which is done
for the eternal dwelling." When thus engaged, he is always standing
upright, his head uplifted, his hands pendent, or holding the staff
and baton of command.

Elsewhere, the diverse offerings are brought to him one by one, and
then he sits in a chair of state.

These are his two attitudes, whether as a bas-relief subject or a
statue. Standing, he receives the homage of his vassals; sitting, he
partakes of the family repast. The people of his household comport
themselves before him as becomes their business and station. His wife
either stands beside him, sits on the same chair or on a second chair by
his side, or squats beside his feet as during his lifetime. His son, if
a child at the time when the statue was ordered, is represented in the
garb of infancy; or with the bearing and equipment proper to his position,
if a man. The slaves bruise the corn, the cellarers tar the wine
jars, the hired mourners weep and tear their hair. His little social
world followed the Egyptian to his tomb, the duties of his attendants
being prescribed for them after death, just as they had been prescribed
for them during life.

And the kind of influence which the religious conception of the soul
exercised over the art of the sculptor did not end here. From the moment
that the statue is regarded as the support of the Double, it becomes
a condition of primary importance that the statue shall reproduce,
at least in the abstract, the proportions and distinctive peculiarities
of the corporeal body; and this in order that the Double shall more
easily adapt himself to his new body of stone or wood.[43] The head
is therefore always a faithful portrait; but the body, on the
contrary, is, as it were, a medium kind of body, representing the
original at his highest development, and consequently able to exert
the fulness of his physical powers when admitted to the society of
the gods.

Hence men are always sculptured in the prime of life, and women with the
delicate proportions of early womanhood.
This conventional idea was never departed from, unless in cases of
very marked deformity. The statue of a dwarf reproduced all the ugly
peculiarities of the dwarf's own body; and it was important that it should
so reproduce them.This can be done by taking off the cap, or
plug-nut, and running a fine wire through the cone valve or cylinder
valve.  The automatic injector requires only the manipulation of the
steam valve to start it. There are other makes that require, first: that
the injector be given steam and then the water.  To start an injector
requires some little tact, (and you will discover that tact is the
handiest tools you can have to make you a good engineer).  To start an
injector of the Pemberthy type; first give it sufficient steam to lift
the water, allowing the water to escape at overflow for a moment or long
enough to cool the injector, then with a quick turn shut off and open up
the supply which requires merely a twist of the wrist.

If the injector fails to take hold at once don't get ruffled but repeat
the above move a few times and you will soon start it, and if you have
tact, (it is only another word for natural ability) you will need no
further instructions to start your injector.  But remember that no
injector can work coal cinders or chaf and that all joints must be air
tight.  Don't forget this.

It is now time to give some attention to the heater.  While the heater
is no part of the pump, it is connected with it and does its work
between the two horizontal check valves. Its purpose is to heat the
water before it passes into the boiler.  The water on its way from the
pump to the boiler is forced through a coil of pipes around which the
exhaust steam passes on its way from the cylinder to the exhaust nozzle
in the smokestack.

The heaters are made in several different designs, but it is not
necessary to describe all of them, as they require little attention and
they all answer the same purpose.  The most of them are made by the use
of a hollow bedplate with steam fitted heads or plates.  The water pipe
passes through the plate at the end of the heater into the hollow
chamber, and a coil of pipes is formed, and the pipe then passes back
through the head or plate to the hot water check valve and into the
boiler.

The steam enters the cylinder from the boiler, varying in degrees of
heat from 300 to 500.  After acting on the piston head, it is exhausted
directly into the chamber or hollow bed-plate through which the pipes
pass.  The water, when it enters the heater, is as cold as when it left
the tank, but the steam which surrounds the pipes has lost but little of
its heat, and by the time the water passes through the coil of pipes it
is heated to nearly boiling point and can be introduced into the boiler
with little tendency to reduce the steam.  This use of the exhaust steam
is economical, as it saves fuel, and it would be injurious to pump cold
water directly into a hot boiler.

IN THE "FINE ART" EXHIBITION.

_Rustic Art Patrons discovered applying their eyes to peepholes, through
which a motley collection of coloured lithographs of the Crimean
Campaign, faded stereoscopic-views, Scriptural engravings, and daubed
woodcuts from the "Illustrated Police News," is arranged for their
inspection._
_First Art Patron_ (_waiting for his turn at the first peephole_).
Look alive theer, GE-ARGE, ain't ye done squintin' at 'un yet?

_Ge-arge_ (_a local humorist_).

'Tis a rare old novelty, BEN, th' latest from London, and naw mistake 'bout
it!

_Ben_ (_with disappointment, as he succeeds to the peephole_).

Why, 'tain't on'y ADAM an' EVE afoor th' Fall! that ain't so partickler
noo, as _I_ can see--Lar dear, they're a settin' nekked on a live lion,
and a nursin' o' rabbits! (_At the next hole_ ADAM _and_ EVE _are represented
"After the Fall," overwhelmed with confusion, while the lion is stalking
off scandalised, with a fine expression of lofty moral indignation._)
'Ere they are _agen_! that theer lion thinks he's played sofy to 'en
long 'nough, seemin'ly!

_Ge-arge_ (_from a further peephole_). I say, BEN, 'ere's Mrs. PEARCEY a
murderin' Mrs. 'OGG down this 'un--we're a-gittin' _along_!

_Ben_ (_puzzled_). They must ha' skipped out a deal. I'm on'y at "CAIN
killin' ABEL!"
_Female Patron_ (_to Proprietor_). 'Ere, Master, I can't see nothen'
down 'ere--'tis all dark like!

_Proprietor._ Let _me_ 'ave a look! You shud put your 'ands so, each side
o' your eyes, and--(_He looks._) 'Um, it is _rayther_--but what else
do yer _expeck_? It's a "View o' Paris by Night," ain't it--_that_'s
all right!

OUTSIDE "PROFESSOR PUGMAN'S SPARRING SALOON."
_The Professor_ (_on a little platform, with a pair of Pupils_).
Now then, all you as are lovers o' the Noble and Manly Art o' Self-Defence,
step inside and see it illusterated in a scientific an' fust-class manner!
This (_introducing first Pupil, who rubs his nose with dignity_) is
'OPPER of 'Olloway, the becoming nine-stun Champion.
This hother's BATTERS o' Bermondsey, open to fight any lad in England
at eight-stun four.

Is there anyone among you willing to 'ave a round or two with either
on 'em fur a drink an' admission free?--if so, now's his time to step
forward--there's no waiting, mind yer?

_Joe_ (_to Melia_). I b'lieve as 'ow I could tackle the little 'un--I
used to box above a bit.

_Melia._ Don't ye now, JOE; you'll on'y go and git yourself 'urt
or summat!

_Joe._ _I_ shan't git 'urt. 'Ere, Master, I'm game fur to put
on the gloves wi' _'im_.

_Prof._ Git inside with yer then! (_To Crowd._) Now then for the Great
Glove Contest--Just goin' inside to begin--Mind, there's _no_
waitin'!

_Joe._ 'Ere, MELIA, come along in, and look arter my 'at an' coat.

_Melia._ I dussen't, JOE! I can't abear to see no fightin', I'll bide
'ere till ye come out.

[_JOE enters the tent, followed by the Pupils and a few Connoisseurs._

_Prof._ (_looking into the interior of tent through a slit in the canvas_).
Theer they are! Oh my, what a pictur'! They're puttin' on the gloves
now, make 'aste if you're goin' in! (_The Crowd hesitate._) 'Ere! (_To
the Champions._) Step outside once more and show yourselves!

[_The Champions appear, re-mount the platform, and are introduced
all over again._
_Melia_ (_intercepting her swain_). JOE, 'ow are ye gittin' on? You
don't look none the worse so fur; is it neelly over?

_Joe_ (_gruffly_). Neelly over! why, we ain't _begun_ yet--nor likely to
wi' all this bloomin' palaverin'!

_Melia._ I do wish 'twas over--Kip a good 'art, JOE; don't let 'un go
knockin' ye about!

_Joe_ (_with a slight decrease of confidence_). Theer's a way to talk!

I doan't reckon as 'ow he'll _kill_ me, not in three rounds, I
doan't, but if I'd a-know'd there'd be all this messin' about fust,
I'd a-- 
[_He goes inside gloomily._ 
[Illustration: "Theer they are!

Oh my, what a pictur'!"]
INSIDE THE SPARRING SALOON.

_The Spectators are waiting patiently around the ropes; the Professor
is still on the platform, expatiating on the coming contest. JOE has
found a friend whom he has entrusted with his hat and coat._
_Joe_ (_to the Friend_).

Jest kip a heye on these 'ere, will ye!

[_He hands him a huge pair of highlows._
_Prof._ (_calling in_). Fur the larst time, come outside and show yerselves,
all on yer!

_The Friend._ You got to go out agin, JOE, better putt on yer coat an'
'at, not to ketch cold!

_Joe._ Ah, and I'll 'ave to 'ave they bo-oots on agen, too. (_He gets into
his things in a great flurry, and hastens outside._) 'Tis enough to
take th' 'art out of a man, thet 'tis!

[_More exhortations from Proprietor, until the last Spectator has been
induced to enter the Saloon, whereupon the Champions return, and the
hangings at the entrance are finally drawn._
_Prof._ (_acting as Timekeeper_). Now then, all ready? (_To JOE._) In
you go--What are yer waitin' for?

Never mind about takin' orf yer boots! Gentlemen, BATTERS o' Bermondsey
is agoin' to fight three rounds with a volunteer, one o' your own
men. Whatever you see between 'em (_solemnly_), pass no remarks!
Time!

[_JOE and "BATTERS o' Bermondsey" walk round each other and make a fumbling
attempt to shake hands, after which JOE, while preparing to deliver a
blow with extreme caution and deliberation, is surprised by a smart smack
on his cheek, which makes him stagger; he recovers himself and prances
down on BATTERS with a windmill action._
_Batters_ (_limping into his corner_). 'Ere, I say, ole man--moind
my tows--foight at yer right _end_!

_Joe_ (_apologetically_). I didn't mean nothing unfair-like--I _warnted_
fur to take off them 'ere boots--but I warn't let!

_Batters._ I'll _let_ ye--fur 'taint no corpet slippers as you've got on,
ole feller, I tell yer strite!

[_JOE removes the offending boots._
_Spectators_ (_during the second round, which is fought with more spirit
than science on JOE'S part_). Ah, JOE ain't no match for 'un--he
let un _'ave_ it then, didn't he?

My word! but it's "Go 'ome an' tell yer Mother, an' ax yer Uncle 'ow
ye be" with 'un, pretty near every time!

_Prof._ (_with affected rapture_). Oh dear!

Oh lor! _What_ doins!
Time! you two, afore ye _kill_ one another!

Now, Gentlemen, a good clap, to encourage 'em.

I think you'll agree as the Volunteer is showin' you good sport; and, if
you think him deservin' of a drink, p'raps one o' you will oblige with
the loan of a 'at, which he'll now take round. (_The hat is procured,
and offered to_ JOE, _who, however, prefers that the collection should
be made by deputy._) Don't _forgit_ 'im, Gentlemen! (_Coppers pour into
the hat, and the last round is fought;_ B. of B. _ducking_ JOE'S _blows
with great agility, and planting his own freely in various parts of_
JOE'S _anatomy._)
_Spectators._ 'E'll be knocked out in a minnit, 'e will!

Don't sim to git near 'un no 'ow. Look a' _that_--and _thar_ agin! Ah, JOE
got one in that time--but the tother's the better man--'e don't
touch 'un without _'ittin'_ of 'un--d'ye see? Time! Ah, and time it
_was_ time, too--fur _'im_!

_Prof._ (_to JOE, as he sits blinking, and blowing his nose with vigour_).
That was a jolly good fight--tho' rough. You've some notion o'
sparrin'--we'd soon make a boxer o' _you_. 'Ere's _your_ share of the
collection--sevenpence ap'ny. We give _you_ the extry ap'ny, bein' a
stranger. Would you feel inclined to fight six rounds, later on like,
with another of our lads, fur ten bob, now?

_Joe_ (_making a futile attempt to untie his glove with his teeth_).

Much obliged, Master, but I've 'ad about enough spree a'ready to do
me fur a bit.

_Prof._ Are there any two friends in 'ere as 'ud like to fight a round
or two?

[_Two Rustics step forward valiantly--a tall dark man and a little
red-haired one--and, after the usual preliminaries, square up at a safe
distance._
_Spectators_ (_to the tall man_). Why don't ye step _up_ to 'un, JIM?
Use yer right 'and a bit! (_To the short one._) Let out on 'un, TOM!

[_TOM, thus exhorted, lands an unexpected blow on JIM'S eye._
_Jim_ (_suddenly ducking under the rope in great dudgeon_). 'Twas a
cowardly blow! I didn' stan' up to be 'it in th' fa-ace i' that
way; I've 'ad enoof of it!

_Tom._ Come back and fight it out! (_Soothingly._) Why, ye come at me
like a thunderin' great _lion_, ye did!

_Jim_ (_putting on his hat and coat, sulkily_).

Loi-on or noan, I ain't gawin' to hev naw moor on it, I tell 'ee. [_Groans
from_ Spectators.

_Prof._ Don't be 'ard on 'im, Gents; it ain't 'is fault if he's on'y bin
used to box with bolsters, and as he ain't goin' to finish 'is
rounds, it's all over for this time, and I 'ope you're all satisfied
with what you've seen.

_A Malcontent._ _I_ ain't. I carl it a bloomin' swindle. I come 'ere to
see some _sparrin'_, _I_ did!

_Prof._ Step inside the ropes then, and _I'll_ soon show yer some!
(_This invitation is hastily declined._) Well, then, go outside quiet,
d'jear me? or else you'll do it upside down, like ole JOHN BROWN, in
'arf a sec., I can tell yer!

[_The Malcontent departs meekly, and reserves any further observations
until he is out of hearing._
_Melia_ (_to JOE_). Lor, I wish now I'd been there to see ye; I do
'ope ye weren't too _rough_ with 'un, though, JOE. What shall we do
next?--'ave a turn on the swings, or the swishback circus, or the
giddy-go-round--or what?

(JOE _shakes his head._) _Why_ won't ye, JOE?

_Joe_ (_driven to candour_). Why?--'cause it 'ud be throwin' away money,
seein' I've got 'em all goin' on inside o' me at once as 'tis, if ye
_want_ to know!

I feel a deal more like settin' down quiet a bit, I do, if I cud
find a place.

_Melia_ (_with an inspiration_). Then let's go and 'ave our likenesses
took!

[_She cannot understand why JOE should be so needlessly incensed
at so innocent and opportune a suggestion._ 
* * * * *
THE "BEST EVIDENCE"--HOW NOT TO GET IT.

Have been summoned to attend as a Witness in the trial of the six roughs
who first drugged and then savagely ill-treated a foolishly convivial
citizen in Whitechapel. Don't know if it was wise of me to tell
the Police that I could identify the men.

Since my evidence before the Magistrate came out, I have had thirty-seven
threatening letters, my front windows have been broken several times
over, and a valuable dog poisoned. Still, evidently a patriotic duty
to "assist the course of Justice;" and no doubt I shall be compensated.

So this is the "Central Criminal Court," is it? Should hardly have
believed it possible. Outside mean and dirty.

Interior, meaner and much dirtier. Speak to Usher. Usher most polite.
Glad, that at any rate, they _do_ know how to treat important Witnesses.
Am assured I shall have a seat "close to the Judge." Produce my
witness-summons. Demeanour of Usher suddenly changes.

I shall have to go to the "Witnesses' Waiting-room in the old Court."
Where's that? _He_ doesn't know. I'd better ask a Policeman. It now
flashes across me that Usher mistook me for a wealthy, and probably
generous spectator, and thought when I was fumbling in my pocket for my
summons, I was looking for half-a-crown for _him_! Depressing.

Policeman leaves me in a dark, draughty passage, with a bench on each
side. "But where is the waiting-room?" I ask an attendant. "_This_ is
the waiting-room," he replies. More like the Black Hole. _Was_ it wise
of me to give information to the Police?

_Two Days later._--They crammed _forty_ Witnesses into that passage!
No seats for half of them. We had one chair, and Usher took it away "as
a lady wanted it in Court." Lady no doubt a spectator--did _she_ hunt
in her pocket for half-a-crown? Anyhow, after two days in the passage, I
have just given my evidence in Court, with fearful cold on my lungs, owing
to the draught. Very hoarse. Ordered by Judge, sternly, to "speak up."
Conscious that I looked a wretched object.
Jury regarded me with evident suspicion. Severely cross-examined.
Mentioned to Judge about my windows being smashed, &c.; could I receive
anything for it? "Oh, dear no," replied the Judge; "we never reward
Witnesses." Amusement in Court--at my expense. In fact, the course
of Justice generally seems to be altogether at my expense.
Home in a cab and a fever. Find ten more threatening letters, and
an infernal machine under area-steps. Go to bed. Doctor says I am
in for pneumonia and bronchitis, he thinks. Tells me I am thoroughly
run down, and asks me, "What I've been doing to reduce myself to
this state?" I reply that, "I have been assisting the course of
Justice." Doctor shrugs his shoulders, and I hear him distinctly
mutter, "More fool you!" I agree with Doctor, cordially. Am quite
certain now that it _was_ unwise to tell Police that I could identify
those criminals.
If this is the way in which Witnesses are treated, let Justice in
future assist itself!

* * * * * 
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.
My Baronite has been reading _Mona Maclean, Medical Student_.
(BLACKWOOD.) "It is," he tells me, "a Novel with a purpose--no
recommendation for a novel, more especially when the purpose selected
is that of demonstrating the indispensability of women-doctors."
Happily GRAHAM TRAVERS, as the author (being evidently a woman)
calls herself, is lured from her fell design. There is a chapter
or two of talk among the girls in the dissecting-room and the
chemical laboratory, with much about the "spheno-maxillary fossa,"
the "dorsalis pedis," and the general whereabouts of "Scarpa's
triangle." But these can be skipped, and the reader may get into
the company of _Mona Maclean_ when she is less erudite, and more
womanly. When not dissecting the "plantar arch," _Mona_ is a bright,
fearless, clever girl, with a breezy manner, refreshing to all
admitted to her company.
The episode of her shopkeeping experience is admirably told, and
affords the author abundant and varied opportunity of exercising
her gift of drawing character. _Mona Maclean_ is, apparently, a
first effort at novel-writing. The workmanship improves up to the
end of the third volume; and Miss TRAVERS' next book will be better
still.
[Illustration: Affection's Offering--from Alfred the Second to Dear
George the first.]
To Mr. J. FISHER UNWIN comes the happy thought of issuing, in a
neatly-packed box, the whole twenty volumes of the Pseudonym
Library--and a very acceptable Christmas-Box it will make. The
volumes, with their odd, oblong shape, are delightful to hold; the
type is good, and the excellence of the literary matter is remarkably
well kept up over the already long series. Mr. UNWIN promises fresh
volumes, introducing to the British public Finnish and Danish
authors, or Danish first, and the others to Finnish.
See how these Poets love one another! How touching is the dedication
of ALFRED AUSTIN'S latest volume to GEORGE MEREDITH! May both live
long and prosper, is the hearty wish of their friend,
THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS.

* * * * *
THE ROYAL ROAD TO COMFORT.--A DREAM.
The rival Steamboats were on the alert. It was a misty night, and
it was a difficult matter to make out the lights of Calais Harbour.
"We shall catch him yet," said the Captain of the Blue Vessel.
"He will not escape us," observed the C.O. of the Red.
Suddenly the Blue started at full steam ahead, and was lost to sight
in Calais harbour. She was quickly followed by the Red, moving with
equal expedition.
The vessels reached the quay nearly at the same time. Then there
was confusion and sounds of military music. Evidently the Illustrious
Personage had embarked. Then the mist cleared away.
"He is safe on board," said the Captain of the Blue Vessel, and his
Mate indulged in a short laugh of triumph.
"It does not matter," observed the Commanding Officer of the Red;
"the Blue may have his person, but _we_ have his luggage!"
And then the cheers were renewed again and again, and the Illustrious
Personage came to the conclusion that English enterprise was not
without its disadvantages!

* * * * *
[Illustration: WHAT OUR ARTIST HAS TO PUT UP WITH.A boiler should be washed out and not blown out, I believe I am safe in
saying that more than half the engineers of threshing engines today
depend on the "blowing out" process to clean their boilers.  I don't
intend to tell you to do anything without giving my reasons.  We will
take a hot boiler, for instance; say, 50 pounds steam.  We will, of
course, take out the fire.  It is not supposed that anyone will attempt
to blow out the water with any fire in the firebox.  We will, after
removing the fire, open the blow-off valve, which will be found at the
bottom or lowest water point.  The water is forced out very rapidly with
this pressure, and the last thing that comes out is the steam.  This
steam keeps the entire boiler hot till everything is blown out, and the
result is that all the dirt, sediment and lime is baked solid on the
tubes and side of firebox.  But you say you know enough to not blow off
at 50 pounds pressure.  Well, we will say 5 pounds, then. You will admit
that the boiler is not cold by any means, even at only 5 pounds, and if
you know enough not to blow off at 50 pounds, you certainly know that at
5 pounds pressure the damage is not entirely avoided.  As long as the
iron is hot, the dirt will dry out quickly, and by the time the boiler
is cold enough to force cold water through it safely, the mud is dry and
adheres closely to the iron.  Some of the foreign matter will be blown
out, but you will find it a difficult matter to wash out what sticks to
the hot iron.

I am aware that some engineers claim that the boiler should be blown out
at about 5 pounds or I0 pounds pressure, but I believe in taking the
common sense view.  They will advise you to blow out at a low pressure,
and then, as soon as the boiler is cool enough, to wash it thoroughly.

Now, if you must wait till the boiler is cool before washing, why not
let it cool with the water in it?  Then, when you let the water out,
your work is easy, and the moment you begin to force water through it,
you will see the dirty water flowing out at the man or hand hole.  The
dirt is soft and washes very easily; but, if it had dried on the inside
of boiler while you were waiting for it to cool, you would find it very
difficult to wash off. .

You say I said to force the water through the boiler, and to do this you
must use a force pump.  No engineer ought to attempt to run an engine
without a force pump.  It is one of the necessities.  You say, can't you
wash out a boiler without a force pump?  Oh, yes!  You can do it just
like some people do business. But I started out to tell you how to keep
your boiler clean, and the way to do it is to wash it out, and the way
to wash it out is with a good force pump.  There are a number of good
pumps made, especially for threshing engines.  They are fitted to the
tank for lifting water for filling, and are fitted with a discharge hose
and nozzle.

You will find at the bottom of boiler one or two hand hole plates-if
your boiler has a water bottom-if not, they will be found at the bottom
of sides of firebox.  Take out these hand hole plates.  You will also
find another plate near the top, on firebox end of boiler; take this
out, then open up smoke box door and you will find another hand hole
plate or plug near lower row of tubes; take this out, and you are ready
for your water works, and you want to use them vigorously; don't throw
in a few buckets of water, but continue to direct the nozzle to every
part of the boiler, and don't stop as long as there is any muddy water
flowing at the bottom hand holes.  This is the way to clean your boiler,
and don't think that you can be a success as an engineer without this
process, and once a week is none too often.  If you want satisfactory
results from your engine, you must keep a clean boiler, and to keep it
clean requires care and labor.  If you neglect it you can expect
trouble.  If you blow out your boiler hot, or if the mud and slush bakes
on the tubes, there is soon a scale formed on the tubes, which decreases
the boiler's evaporating capacity.  You, therefore, in order to make
sufficient amount of steam, must increase the amount of fuel, which of
itself is a source of expense, to say nothing of extra labor and the
danger of causing the tubes to leak from the increased heat you must
produce in the firebox in order to make steam sufficient to do the work.

You must not expect economy of fuel, and keep a dirty boiler, and don't
condemn a boiler because of hard firing until you know it is clean, and
don't say it is clean when it can be shown to be half full of mud.

SCALE

Advertisements say that certain compounds will prevent scale on boilers,
and I think they tell the truth, as far as they go; but they don't say
what the result may be on iron.  I will not advise the use of any of
these preparations, for several reasons.  In the first place, certain
chemicals will successfully remove the scale formed by water charged
with bicarbonate of lime, and have no effect on water charged with
sulphate of lime.  Some kinds of bark-summac, logwood, etc.,-are
sufficient to remove the scale from water charged with magnesia or
carbonate of lime, but they are injurious to the iron owing to the
tannic acid with which they are charged.  He had early discovered in
himself a singular capacity for drawing salaries, and as he had unbounded
conceit and unqualified ignorance, he conceived himself to be fit
for any post in life to which a salary is attached. He had also really
great gifts as a _crampon_, or hanger-on, and neglected no opportunity,
while he made many, of securing useful acquaintances. Thus it was the
custom of his college to elect, at stated periods, a man of eminence
as Rector.

SAUNDERS at once constituted himself secretary of a committee, and,
without consulting his associates, wrote invitations to eminent
politicians, poets, painters, actors, editors, clergymen, and other people
much in the public eye. In these effusions he poured forth the innocent
enthusiasm of his heart, expressing an admiration which might seem excessive
to all but its objects. They, with the guilelessness of mature age and
conscious merit, were touched by SAUNDERS'S expressions of esteem,
which they set down to hero-worship, and a fervent study of Mr.
CARLYLE'S works. Only one of the persons addressed, unluckily, could be
elected; but SAUNDERS added their responses to his pile of
testimonials, and frequently gave them good epistolary reason to
remember his existence and his devotion.

His earliest object was to become secretary to somebody or something,
the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Society
for the Protection of Aborigines, or Ancient Monuments, or even as
Secretary to the Carlton Club, SAUNDERS felt he could do his talents
justice in any of these positions.

This
cleaner should be made to fit the tubes snug, and should be forced
through each separate tube every morning before building a fire.  Some
engineers never touch their flues with a cleaner, but when they choke
the exhaust sufficiently to create such a draught as to clean the flues,
they are working the engine at a great disadvantage, besides being much
more liable to pull the fire out at the top of smokestack.  If it were
not necessary to create draught by reducing your exhaust nozzle, your
engine would run much nicer and be much more powerful if your nozzle was
not reduced at all.  However, you must reduce it sufficiently to give
draught, but don't impair the power by making the engine clean its own
flues.  I think ninety per cent of the fires started by. traction
engines can be traced to the engineer having his engine choked at the
exhaust nozzle.  This is dangerous for the reason that the excessive
draught created throws fire out at the stack.  It cuts the power of the
engine by creating back pressure. We will illustrate this: Suppose you
close the exhaust entirely, and the engine would not turn itself.  If
this is true, you can readily understand that partly closing it will
weaken it to a certain extent. So, remember that the nozzle has
something to do with the power of the engine, and you can see why the
fellow that makes his engine clean its own flues is not the brightest
engineer in the world.

While it is not my intention to encourage the foolish habit of pulling
engines, to see which is the best puller, should you get into this kind
of a test, you will show the other fellow a trick by dropping the
exhaust nozzle off entirely, and no one need know it.  Your engine will
not appear to be making any effort, either, in making the pull.  Many a
test has been won more through the shrewdness of the operator than the
superiority of the engine.

The knowing of this little trick may also help you out of a bad hole
some time when you want a little extra power.  And this brings us to the
point to which I want you to pay special attention. The majority of
engineers, when they want a little extra power, give the safety valve a
twist.

Now, I have already told you to carry a good head of steam, anywhere
from 100 to 120 pounds of steam is good pressure and is plenty, and if
you have your valve set to blow off at 115, let it be there; and don't
screw it down every time you want more power, for if you do you will
soon have it up to I25, and should you want more steam at some other
time you will find yourself screwing it down again, and what was really
intended for a safety valve loses all its virtue as a safety, as far as
you and those around you are concerned.  If you know you have a good
boiler you are safe in setting it at I25 pounds, provided you are
determined to not set it up to any higher pressure.  But my advice to
you is that if your engine won't do the work required of it at 115
pounds, you had best do what you can with it until you can get a larger
one.

A safety valve is exactly what its name implies, and there should be a
heavy penalty for anyone taking that power away from it.

If you refuse to set your safety down at any time, it does not imply
that you are afraid of your boiler, but rather you understand your
business and realize your responsibility.

I stated before what you should do with the safety valve in starting a
new engine.  You should also attend to this part of it every few days.
See that it does not become slow to work.  You should note the pressure
every time it blows off; you know where it ought to blow off, so don't
allow it to stick or hold the steam beyond this pressure.  If you are
careful about this, there is no danger about it sticking some time when
you don't happen to be watching the gauge.  The steam gauge will tell
you when the pop ought to blow off, and you want to see that it does it.


PART FIVE _______

STEAM GAUGE

Some engineers call a steam gauge a "clock." I suppose they do this
because they think it tells them when it is time to throw in coal, and
when it is time to quit, and when it is time for the safety valve to
blow off.  If that is what they think a steam gauge is for, I can tell
them that it is time for them to learn differently.

It is true that in a certain sense it does tell the engineer when to do
certain things, but not as a clock would tell the time of day.  The
office of a steam gauge is to enable you to read the pressure on your
boiler at all times, the same as a scale will enable you to determine
the weight of any object.

As this is the duty of the steam gauge, it is necessary that it be
absolutely correct.  By the use of an unreliable gauge you may become
thoroughly bewildered, and in reality know nothing of what pressure you
are carrying.

This will occur in about this way: Your steam gauge becomes weak, and if
your safety is set at I00 pounds, it will show I00 or even more before
the pop allows the steam to escape; or if the gauge becomes clogged, the
pop may blow off when the gauge only shows go pounds or less.  This
latter is really more dangerous than the former. As you would most
naturally conclude that your safety was getting weak, and about the
first thing you would do would be to screw it down so that the gauge
would show I00 before the pop would blow off, when in fact you would
have I00 or more.

So you can see at once how important it is that your gauge and safety
should work exactly together, and there is but one way to make certain
of this, and that is to test your steam gauge.  If you know the steam
gauge is correct, you can make your safety valve agree with it; but
never try to make it do it till you know the gauge is reliable.

HOW TO TEST A STEAM GAUGE

Take it off, and take it to some shop where there is a steam boiler in
active use; have the engineer attach your gauge where it will receive
the direct pressure, and if it shows the same as his gauge, it is
reasonable to suppose that your gauge is correct. If the engineer to
whom you take your gauge should say he thinks his gauge is weak, or a
little strong, then go somewhere else.  I have already told you that I
did not want you to think anything about your engine-I want you to know
it.  However, should you find that your gauge shows when tested with
another gauge, that it is weak, or unreliable in any way, you want to
repair it at once, and the safest way is to get a new one; and yet I
would advise you first to examine it and see if you cannot discover the
trouble.  The thickness of the wall is about twenty feet at the base, and
sixteen feet above. The top is destroyed, but the bas-reliefs and mural
paintings (fig. 28) show that it must have been crowned with a continuous
cornice, boldly projecting, furnished with a slight low parapet, and
surmounted by battlements, which were generally rounded, but
sometimes, though rarely, squared.

The walk round the top of the ramparts, though diminished by the
parapet, was still twelve or fifteen feet wide. It ran uninterruptedly
along the four sides, and was reached by narrow staircases formed in
the thickness of the walls, but now destroyed. There was no ditch, but
in order to protect the base of the main wall from sappers, they
erected, about ten feet in advance of it, a battlemented covering wall,
some sixteen feet in height. These precautions sufficed against sap and
scaling; but the gates remained as open gaps in the circuit.

It was upon these weak points that besiegers and besieged alike
concentrated their efforts.

The fortress of Abydos had two gates, the main one being situate at the
east end of the north front (fig.
29). A narrow cutting (A), closed by a massive wooden door, marked the
place in the covering wall. Behind it was a small _place d'armes_ (B),
cut partly in the thickness of the wall, and leading to a second gate
(C) as narrow as the first. When, notwithstanding the showers of missiles
poured upon them from the top of the walls, not only in front, but
also from both sides, the attacking party had succeeded in carrying
this second door, they were not yet in the heart of the place. They would
still have to traverse an oblong court (D), closely hemmed in between
the outer walls and the cross walls, which last stood at right angles
to the first. Finally, they must force a last postern (E), which was
purposely placed in the most awkward corner. The leading principle in
the construction of fortress-gates was always the same, but the details
varied according to the taste of the engineer. At the south-east gate
of the fort of Abydos (fig. 30) the _place d'armes_ between the two walls
is abolished, and the court is constructed entirely in the thickness
of the main wall; while at Kom el Ahmar, opposite El Kab (fig. 31), the
block of brickwork in the midst of which the gate is cut projects boldly
in front. The posterns opening at various points facilitated the movements
of the garrison, and enabled them to multiply their sorties.

[Illustration: Fig. 32.--Plan of the walled city at El Kab.]
The same system of fortification which was in use for isolated fortresses
was also employed for the protection of towns. At Heliopollis, at Sãn,
at Sais, at Thebes, everywhere in short, we find long straight walls
forming plain squares or parallelograms, without towers or bastions,
ditches or outworks. The thickness of the walls, which varied from thirty
to eighty feet, made such precautions needless. The gates, or at all
events the principal ones, had jambs and lintels of stone, decorated
with scenes and inscriptions; as, for instance, that of Ombos,
which Champollion beheld yet _in situ_, and which dated from the
reign of Thothmes III. The oldest and best preserved walled city in
Egypt, namely, El Kab, belongs probably to the ancient empire (fig. 32).
The Nile washed part of it away some years ago; but at the beginning of
the present century it formed an irregular quadrilateral enclosure,
measuring some 2,100 feet in length, by about a quarter less in breadth.
The south front is constructed on the same principles as the wall at Kom
es Sultan, the bricks being bedded in alternate horizontal and
concave sections. Along the north and west fronts they are laid in
undulating layers from end to end. The thickness is thirty-eight feet,
and the average height thirty feet; and spacious ramps lead up to the
walk upon the walls. The gates are placed irregularly, one in each
side to north, east, and west, but none in the south face; they are,
however, in too ruinous a state to admit of any plan being taken of
them. The enclosure contained a considerable population, whose dwellings
were unequally distributed, the greater part being concentrated towards
the north and west, where excavations have disclosed the remains
of a large number of houses.

The temples were grouped together in a square enclosure, concentric with
the outer wall; and this second enclosure served for a keep, where the
garrison could hold out long after the rest of the town had fallen into
the hands of the enemy.

[Illustration: Fig. 33.--Plan of walled city at Kom Ombo.]
[Illustration: Fig. 34.--Plan of fortress of Kùmmeh.]
[Illustration: Fig. 35.--Plan of fortress of Semneh.]
[Illustration: Fig. 36.

--Section of the platform at A B, of the preceding plan.]
The rectangular plan, though excellent in a plain, was not always available
in a hilly country. When the spot to be fortified was situate upon a
height, the Egyptian engineers knew perfectly well how to adapt
their lines of defence to the nature of the site.

At Kom Ombo (fig. 33) the walls exactly followed the outline of the
isolated mound on which the town was perched, and presented towards
the east a front bristling with irregular projections, the style
of which roughly resembles our modern bastions.

At Kûmmeh and Semneh, in Nubia, where the Nile rushes over the rocks of
the second cataract, the engineering arrangements are very ingenious,
and display much real skill. Ûsertesen III. had fixed on this
pass as the frontier of Egypt, and the fortresses which he there constructed
were intended to bar the water-way against the vessels of the neighbouring
negro tribes. At Kûmmeh, on the right bank, the position was naturally
strong (fig. 34). Upon a rocky height surrounded by precipices was
planned an irregular square measuring about 200 feet each way. Two elongated
bastions, one on the north-east and the other on the south-east, guarded
respectively the path leading to the gate, and the course of the river.
The covering wall stood thirteen feet high, and closely followed the line
of the main wall, except at the north and south corners, where it
formed two bastion-like projections. At Semneh, on the opposite bank,
the site was less favourable. The east side was protected by a belt of
cliffs going sheer down to the water's edge; but the three other sides
were well- nigh open (fig. 35). A straight wall, about fifty feet
in height, carried along the cliffs on the side next the river; but
the walls looking towards the plain rose to eighty feet, and bristled
with bastion-like projections (A.B.) jutting out for a distance of
fifty feet from the curtain wall, measuring thirty feet thick at the
base and thirteen feet at the top, and irregularly spaced, according
to the requirements of the defence.

These spurs, which are not battlemented, served in place of towers.
They added to the strength of the walls, protected the walk round the
top, and enabled the besieged to direct a flank attack against the enemy
if any attempt were made upon the wall of circuit. The intervals between
these spurs are accurately calculated as to distance, in order that the
archers should be able to sweep the intervening ground with their arrows.
Curtains and salients are alike built of crude brick, with beams bedded
horizontally in the mass. The outer face is in two parts, the lower
division being nearly vertical, and the upper one inclined at an angle
of about seventy degrees, which made scaling very difficult, if not
impossible. The whole of the ground enclosed by the wall of circuit was
filled in to nearly the level of the ramparts (fig. 36). Externally, the
covering wall of stone was separated from the body of the fortress by a
dry ditch, some 100 to 130 feet in width. This wall closely followed the
main outline, and rose to a height which varied according to the situation
from six to ten feet above the level of the plain. On the northward side
it was cut by the winding road, which led down into the plain. These
arrangements, skilful as they were, did not prevent the fall of the
place. A large breach in the southward face, between the two salients
nearest to the river, marks the point of attack selected by the enemy.

[Illustration: Fig. 37.--Syrian fort.]
[Illustration: Fig. 38.--The town-walls of Dapür.]
[Illustration: Fig. 39.--City of Kadesh, Ramesseum.]
[Illustration: Fig. 40.--Plan of the pavilion of Medinet Habu.]
[Illustration: Fig. 41.--Elevation of pavilion, Medinet Habû.]
New methods of fortification were revealed to the Egyptians in the course
of the great Asiatic wars undertaken by the Pharaohs of the
Eighteenth Dynasty. The nomadic tribes of Syria erected small forts in
which they took refuge when threatened with invasion (fig. 37). The
Canaanite and Hittite cities, as Ascalon, Dapur, and Merom, were surrounded
by strong walls, generally built of stone and flanked with towers (fig.
38). Those which stood in the open country, as, for instance, Qodshû
(Kadesh), were enclosed by a double moat (fig. 39).

Having proved the efficacy of these new types of defensive architecture
in the course of their campaigns, the Pharaohs reproduced them in the
valley of the Nile. From the beginning of the Nineteenth Dynasty, the
eastern frontier of the Delta (always the weakest) was protected by
a line of forts constructed after the Canaanite model. The Egyptians,
moreover, not content with appropriating the thing, appropriated also the
name, and called these frontier towers by the Semitic name of _Magdilû_
or Migdols. For these purposes, or at all events for cities which
were exposed to the incursions of the Asiatic tribes, brick was not
deemed to be sufficiently strong; hence the walls of Heliopolis, and even
those of Memphis, were faced with stone.

Of these new fortresses no ruins remain; and but for a royal caprice which
happens to have left us a model Migdol in that most unlikely place,
the necropolis of Thebes, we should now be constrained to attempt
a restoration of their probable appearance from the representations in
certain mural tableaux. When, however, Rameses III.
erected his memorial temple[3] (figs. 40 and 41), he desired, in remembrance
of his Syrian victories, to give it an outwardly military aspect.

Along the eastward front of the enclosure there accordingly runs a
battlemented covering wall of stone, averaging some thirteen feet
in height. The gate, protected by a large quadrangular bastion, opened
in the middle of this wall. It was three feet four inches in width, and
was flanked by two small oblong guard-houses, the flat roofs of
which stood about three feet higher than the ramparts.

Passing this gate, we stand face to face with a real Migdol. Two blocks
of building enclose a succession of court-yards, which narrow as they
recede, and are connected at the lower end by a kind of gate-house,
consisting of one massive gateway surmounted by two storeys of chambers.
The eastward faces of the towers rise above an inclined basement, which
slopes to a height of from fifteen to sixteen feet from the
ground. This answered two purposes. It increased the strength of the wall
at the part exposed to sappers; it also caused the rebound of
projectiles thrown from above, and so helped to keep assailants at a
distance. The whole height is about seventy-two feet, and the width of
each tower is thirty-two feet. The buildings situate at the back, to
right and left of the gate, were destroyed in ancient times. The
details of the decoration are partly religious, partly triumphal,
as befits the character of the structure. It is unlikely, however, that
actual fortresses were adorned with brackets and bas-relief sculptures,
such as we here see on either side of the fore-court. Such as it is, the
so-called "pavilion" of Medinet Habu offers an unique example of
the high degree of perfection to which the victorious Pharaohs of
this period had carried their military architecture.

Material evidence fails us almost entirely, after the reign of Rameses
III.
Towards the close of the eleventh century B.C., the high-priests of
Amen repaired the walls of Thebes, of Gebeleyn, and of El Hibeh
opposite Feshn.

The territorial subdivision of the country, which took place under the
successors of Sheshonk, compelled the provincial princes to multiply their
strongholds. The campaign of Piankhi on the banks of the Nile is a series
of successful sieges. Nothing, however, leads us to suppose that the
art of fortification had at that time made any distinct progress;
and when the Greek rulers succeeded the native Pharaohs, they most
probably found it at much the same stage as it was left by the
engineers of the Nineteenth and Twentieth Dynasties

.

[3] At Medinet Habû.

3.--PUBLIC WORKS.

A permanent network of roads would be useless in a country like Egypt.
The Nile here is the natural highway for purposes of commerce, and
the pathways which intersect the fields suffice for foot-passengers, for
cattle, and for the transport of goods from village to village. Ferry-boats
for crossing the river, fords wherever the canals were shallow enough,
and embanked dams thrown up here and there where the water was too deep
for fordings, completed the system of internal communication. Bridges
were rare. Up to the present time, we know of but one in the whole
territory of ancient Egypt; and whether that one was long or
short, built of stone or of wood, supported on arches or boldly flung
across the stream from bank to bank, we cannot even conjecture. This
bridge, close under the very walls of Zarû,[4] crossed the canal which
separated the eastern frontier of Egypt from the desert regions of
Arabia Petraea. A fortified enclosure protected this canal on the
Asiatic side, as shown in the accompanying illustration (fig.
42). The maintenance of public highways, which figures as so costly an
item in the expenses of modern nations, played, therefore, but a very
small part in the annual disbursements of the Pharaohs, who had only to
provide for the due execution of three great branches of government
works,--namely, storage, irrigation, mining and quarrying.

[Illustration: Fig. 42.--Canal and bridge, Zarû, Karnak.]
[Illustration: Fig. 43.--Cellar, with amphorae.]
[Illustration: Fig. 44.--Granary.]
The taxation of ancient Egypt was levied in kind, and government servants
were paid after the same system. To workmen, there were monthly distributions
of corn, oil, and wine, wherewith to support their families; while
from end to end of the social scale, each functionary, in exchange
for his labour, received cattle, stuffs, manufactured goods, and
certain quantities of copper or precious metals.

Thus it became necessary that the treasury officials should have the
command of vast storehouses for the safe keeping of the various goods
collected under the head of taxation. These were classified and stored
in separate quarters, each storehouse being surrounded by walls and
guarded by vigilant keepers. There was enormous stabling for cattle; there
were cellars where the amphorae were piled in regular layers (fig. 43),
or hung in rows upon the walls, each with the date written on the side
of the jar; there were oven-shaped granaries where the corn was poured
in through a trap at the top (fig. 44), and taken out through a trap at
the bottom. At Thûkû, identified with Pithom by M.
Naville,[5] the store-chambers (A) are rectangular and of
different dimensions (fig. 45), originally divided by floors, and having
no communication with each other. Here the corn had to be not only put in
but taken out through the aperture at the top. At the Ramesseum, Thebes,
thousands of ostraka and jar-stoppers found upon the spot prove that the
brick-built remains at the back of the temple were the cellars of the
local deity. The ruins consist of a series of vaulted chambers, originally
surmounted by a platform or terrace (fig. 46). At Philae, Ombos,
Daphnae,[6] and most of the frontier towns of the Delta, there
were magazines of this description, and many more will doubtless be
discovered when made the object of serious exploration.

[Illustration: Fig. 45.--Plan of Pithom.]
[Illustration: Fig. 46.--Store-chambers of the Ramesseum.]
[Illustration: Fig. 47.--Dike at Wady Gerraweh.]
The irrigation system of Egypt is but little changed since the olden
time.

Some new canals have been cut, and yet more have been silted up through
the negligence of those in power; but the general scheme, and the methods
employed, continue much the same, and demand but little engineering
skill.
Wherever I have investigated the remains of ancient canals, I have been
unable to detect any traces of masonry at the weak points, or at the
mouths, of these cuttings. They are mere excavated ditches, from
twenty to sixty or seventy feet in width. The earth flung out during the
work was thrown to right and left, forming irregular embankments
from seven to fourteen feet in height. The course of the ancient canals
was generally straight: but that rule was not strictly observed, and
enormous curves were often described in order to avoid even slight
irregularities of surface. Dikes thrown up from the foot of the cliffs
to the banks of the Nile divided the plain at intervals into a series
of artificial basins, where the overflow formed back-waters at
the time of inundation. These dikes are generally earth-works, though
they are sometimes constructed of baked brick, as in the province
of Girgeh.

Very rarely are they built of hewn stone, like that great dike of
Kosheish which was constructed by Mena in primaeval times, in order to
divert the course of the Nile from the spot on which he founded
Memphis.[7] The network of canals began near Silsilis and extended to the
sea-board, without ever losing touch of the river, save at one spot
near Beni Sûef, where it throws out a branch in the direction of
the Fayûm.

Here, through a narrow and sinuous gorge, deepened probably by the
hand of man, it passes the rocky barrier which divides that low-
lying province from the valley of the Nile, and thence expands into
a fanlike ramification of innumerable channels.

Having thus irrigated the district, the waters flow out again; those nearest
the Nile returning by the same way that they flowed in, while the rest
form a series of lakes, the largest of which is known as the Birket el
Kûrûn. If we are to believe Herodotus, the work was not so simply
done. A king, named Moeris, desired to create a reservoir in the
Fayûm which should neutralise the evil effects of insufficient or
superabundant inundations. This reservoir was named, after him, Lake
Moeris. If the supply fell below the average, then the stored waters
were let loose, and Lower Egypt and the Western Delta were flooded
to the needful height. If next year the inundation came down in too
great force, Lake Moeris received and stored the surplus till such
time as the waters began to subside.

Two pyramids, each surmounted by a sitting colossus, one representing the
king and the other his queen, were erected in the midst of the lake. Such
is the tale told by Herodotus, and it is a tale which has considerably
embarrassed our modern engineers and topographers. How, in fact, was
it possible to find in the Fayûm a site which could have contained a
basin measuring at least ninety miles in circumference?

Linant supposed "Lake Moeris" to have extended over the whole of the
low-lying land which skirts the Libyan cliffs between Illahûn and Medinet
el Fayûm; but recent explorations have proved that the dikes by which
this pretended reservoir was bounded are modern works, erected probably
within the last two hundred years. Major Brown has lately shown that the
nucleus of "Lake Moeris" was the Birket el Kûrûn.[8] This was known
to the Egyptians as _Miri, Mi-ûri,_ the Great Lake, whence the Greeks
derived their _Moiris_ a name extended also to the inundation of the
Fayûm.
If Herodotus did actually visit this province, it was probably in summer,
at the time of the high Nile, when the whole district presents the
appearance of an inland sea. What he took for the shores of this
lake were the embankments which divided it into basins and acted as
highways between the various towns.

His narrative, repeated by the classic authors, has been accepted
by the moderns; and Egypt, neither accepting nor rejecting it, was gratified
long after date with the reputation of a gigantic work which would in
truth have been the glory of her civil engineers, if it had ever existed.
I do not believe that "Lake Moeris" ever did exist. The only works of
the kind which the Egyptians undertook were much less pretentious.

These consist of stone-built dams erected at the mouths of many of those
lateral ravines, or wadys, which lead down from the mountain ranges
into the valley of the Nile. One of the most important among them was
pointed out, in 1885, by Dr. Schweinfurth, at a distance of about six
miles and a half from the Baths of Helwan, at the mouth of the
Wady Gerraweh (fig. 47).

It answered two purposes, firstly, as a means of storing the water
of the inundation for the use of the workmen in the neighbouring
quarries; and, secondly, as a barrier to break the force of the
torrents which rush down from the desert after the heavy rains of
springtime and winter.

The ravine measures about 240 feet in width, the sides being on
an average from 40 to 50 feet in height. The dam, which is 143 feet in
thickness, consists of three layers of material; at the bottom, a bed
of clay and rubble; next, a piled mass of limestone blocks (A); lastly,
a wall of cut stone built in retreating stages, like an enormous flight
of steps (B). Thirty-two of the original thirty-five stages are yet _in
situ_, and about one-fourth part of the dam remains piled up against the
sides of the ravine to right and left; but the middle part has been swept
away by the force of the torrent (fig.
48). A similar dike transformed the end of Wady Genneh into a little
lake which supplied the Sinaitic miners with water.

Most of the localities from which the Egyptians derived their metals
and choicest materials in hard stone, were difficult of access, and
would have been useless had roads not been made, and works of this kind
carried out, so as to make life somewhat less insupportable there.

[Illustration: Fig. 48.--Section of dike at Wady Gerraweh.]
In order to reach the diorite and grey granite quarries of the
Hammamat Valley, the Pharaohs caused a series of rock-cut cisterns to be
constructed along the line of route.

Some few insignificant springs, skilfully conducted into these
reservoirs, made it possible to plant workmen's villages in the
neighbourhood of the quarries, and also near the emerald mines on the
borders of the Red Sea. Hundreds of hired labourers, slaves, and condemned
criminals here led a wretched existence under the rule of some eight
or ten overseers, and the brutal surveillance of a company of
Libyan or negro mercenary troops. The least political disturbance in
Egypt, an unsuccessful campaign, or any untoward incident of a troubled
reign, sufficed to break up the precarious stability of these remote
establishments.
The proper and accurate setting of a valve on a steam engine is one of
the most important duties that you will have to perform, as it requires
a nicety of calculation and a mechanical accuracy.  And when we remember
also, that this is another one of the things for which no uniform rule
can be adopted, owing to the many circumstances which go to make an
engine so different under different conditions, we find it very
difficult to give you the light on this part of your duty which we would
wish to.  We, however, hope to make it so clear to you that by the aid
of the engine before you, you can readily understand the conditions and
principles which control the valve in the particular engine which you
may have under your management.

The power and economy of an engine depends largely on the accurate
operation of its valve.  It is, therefore, necessary that you know how
to reset it, should it become necessary to do so.

An authority says, "Bring your engine to a dead center and then adjust
your valve to the proper lead." This is all right as far as it goes, but
how are you to find the dead center.  I know that it is a common custom
in the field to bring the engine to a center by the use of the eye.  You
may have a good eye, but it is not good enough to depend on for the
accurate setting of a valve.

HOW TO FIND THE DEAD CENTER

First, provide yourself with a "tram." This you can do by taking a 1/4
inch iron rod, about 18 inches long, and bend about two inches of one
end to a sharp angle.  Then sharpen both ends to a nice sharp point.
Now, fasten securely a block of hard wood somewhere near the face of the
fly wheel, so that when the straight end of your tram is placed at a
definite point in the block the other, or hook end, will reach the crown
of fly wheel.

Be certain that the block cannot move from its place, and be careful to
place the tram at exactly the same point on the block at each time you
bring the tram into use.  Though ignorant of foreign languages, he was
prepared to be a correspondent anywhere, and though he was purely
unlearned in all matters, he proposed to edit Dictionaries and
Encyclopædias, of course with the assistance of a large and
competent staff. His proofs of capacity for a series of occupations that
would have staggered a CRICHTON, was always attested by his old College
testimonials, for SAUNDERS was of opinion that the courteous _obiter
dictum_ of a Professor was an Open Sesame to all the golden gates of
the world.
Meanwhile, he supported existence by teaching the elements of the classic
languages, with which he had the most distant acquaintance, to little
boys, at a Day School. But one of these pupils came home, one afternoon,
in tears, having been beaten on the palms of the hands with a leathern
strap, in addition to the task of writing out the verb [Greek: tuptô].
This punishment was inflicted because, in accordance with SAUNDERS'S
instructions, he had represented the Cyclops of Euripides as
"sweeping the stars with a rake."

The original words of the Athenian poet do not bear this remarkable
construction, so SAUNDERS was dismissed from the only work which he had
ever made even a pretence of doing. He has not the energy, nor the lungs
necessary for the profession of an agitator; he has not the grammar
required in a penny-a-liner, he cannot cut hair, and his manners
unfit him for the occupation of a shop-assistant, so that little
is left open to SAUNDERS but the industry of the Blackmailer.

The office of Secretary to a Missionary in a Leper settlement, on an
island of Tierra Del Fuego, is, however, vacant; and, if the many
important personages with whom SAUNDERS has corresponded will only
make a united effort, it is possible that the Man who would Get on may
at last be got off, and relieve society from the burden of his
solicitations.

Now,
we have already stated that we could not give you the proper amount of
lead for an engine.  It is presumed that the maker of your engine knew
the amount best adapted to this engine, and you can ascertain his idea
of this by first allowing, we will say, about 1/16 of an inch.  Now
bring your engine to the other center, and if the lead at the other end
is less than 1/16, then you must conclude that he intended to allow less
than 1/16, but should it show more than this, then it is evident that he
intended more than I/I16 lead; but in either case you must adjust your
valve so as to divide the space, in order to secure the same lead when
on either center.  In the absence of any better tool to ascertain if the
lead is the same, make a tapering wooden wedge of soft wood, turn the
engine to a center and force the wedge in the opening made by the valve
hard enough to mark the wood; then turn to the next center, and if the
wedge enters the same distance, you are correct; if not, adjust till it
does, and when you have it set at the proper place you had best mark it
by taking a sharp cold chisel and place it so that it will cut into the
hub of eccentric and in the shaft; then hit it a smart blow with a
hammer. This should be done after you have set the set screws in
eccentric down solid on the shaft.  Then, at any time should your
eccentric slip, you have only to bring it back to the chisel mark and
fasten it, and you are ready to go ahead again.

This is for a plain or single eccentric engine.  A double or reversible
engine, however, is somewhat more difficult to handle in setting the
valve.  Not that the valve itself is any different from a plain engine,
but from the fact that the link may confuse you, and while the link may
be in position to run the engine one way you may be endeavoring to set
the valve to run it the other way.

The proper way to proceed with this kind of an engine is to bring the
reverse lever to a position to run the engine forward, then proceed to
set your valve the same as on a plain engine. When you have it at the
proper place, tighten just enough to keep from slipping, then bring your
reverse lever to the reverse position and bring your engine to the
center.  If it shows the same lead for the reverse motion you are then
ready to tighten your eccentrics securely, and they should be marked as
before.

You may imagine that you will have this to do often. Well don't be
scared about it.  You may run an engine a long time, and never have to
set a valve.  I have heard these windy engineers (you have seen them),
say that they had to go and set Mr. A's or Mr. B's valve, when the facts
were, if they did anything, it was simply to bring the eccentrics back
to their original position. They happened to know that most all engines
are plainly marked at the factory, and all there was to do was to bring
the eccentrics back to these marks and fasten them, and the valve was
set.  The slipping of the eccentrics is about the only cause for a valve
working badly.  You should therefore keep all grease and dirt away from
these marks; keep the set screws well tightened, and notice them
frequently to see that they do not slip.  Should they slip a I/I6 part
of an inch, a well educated ear can detect it in the exhaust.  Should
they slip a part of a turn as they will some times, the engine may stop
instantly, or it may cut a few peculiar circles for a minute or two, but
don't get excited, look to the eccentrics at once for the trouble.

Your engine may however act very queer some time, and you may find the
eccentrics in their proper place.  Then you must go into the steam chest
for the trouble.  The valves in different engines are fastened on valve
rod in different ways.  Some are held in place by jam nuts; a nut may
have worked loose, causing lost motion on the valve.  This will make
your engine work badly. Other engines hold their valve by a clamp and
pin.  This pin may work out, and when it does, your engine will stop,
very quickly to.

If you thoroughly understand the working of the steam, you can readily
detect any defect in your cylinder or steam chest, by the use of your
cylinder cocks.  Suppose we try them once. Turn your engine on the
forward center, now open the cocks and give the engine the steam
pressure.  If the steam blows out at the forward cock we know that we
have sufficient lead.  Now turn back to the back center, and give it
steam again; if it blows out the same at this cock, we can conclude that
our valve is in its proper position.  Now reverse the engine and do the
same thing; if the cocks act the same, we know we are right.  The most
ancient kind, which ceased to be used about the time of the Sixth Dynasty,
is small (8.7 X 4.3 X 5.5 inches), yellowish, and made of nothing but
sand, mixed with a little clay and grit.

[Illustration: Fig. 113.--A Mastaba.]
The later kind is of mud mixed with straw, black, compact, carefully
moulded, and of a fair size (15.0 X 7.1 X 5.5 inches).

The style of the internal construction differs according to the material
employed by the architect. In nine cases out of ten, the stone
mastabas are but outwardly regular in construction. The core is of roughly
quarried rubble, mixed with rubbish and limestone fragments hastily
bedded in layers of mud, or piled up without any kind of mortar. The
brick mastabas are nearly always of homogeneous construction. The
facing bricks are carefully mortared, and the joints inside are filled
up with sand. That the mastaba should be canonically oriented, the four
faces set to the four cardinal points, and the longer axis laid from
north and south, was indispensable; but, practically, the masons took
no special care about finding the true north, and the orientation of
these structures is seldom exact.

At Gizeh, the mastabas are distributed according to a symmetrical plan,
and ranged in regular streets. At Sakkarah, at Abûsîr, and at
Dahshûr, they are scattered irregularly over the surface of the
plateau, crowded in some places, and wide apart in others. The Mussulman
cemetery at Siût perpetuates the like arrangement, and enables us to
this day to realise the aspect of the Memphite necropolis towards
the close of the ancient empire.

[Illustration: Fig. 114.--False door in mastaba, from Mariette's _Les
Mastabahs_.]
[Illustration: Fig. 115.--Plan of forecourt of mastaba of Kaâpir.]
A flat, unpaved platform, formed by the top course of the core (Note
13), covers the top of the mass of the mastaba.

This platform is scattered over with terracotta vases, nearly buried in
the loose rubbish. These lie thickly over the hollow interior, but
are more sparsely deposited elsewhere. The walls are bare. The doors face
to the eastward side. They occasionally face towards the north or south
side, but never towards the west. In theory, there should be two doors,
one for the dead, the other for the living. In practice, the entrance for
the dead was a mere niche, high and narrow, cut in the eastward face,
near the north-east corner. At the back of this niche are marked vertical
lines, framing in a closed space.
Even this imitation of a door was sometimes omitted, and the soul was
left to manage as best it might.

The door of the living was made more or less important, according
to the greater or less development of the chamber to which it led.

The chamber and door are in some cases represented by only a shallow
recess decorated with a stela and a table of offerings (fig. 114).

This is sometimes protected by a wall which projects from the façade,
thus forming a kind of forecourt open to the north.

The forecourt is square in the tomb of Kaâpir (fig. 114), and irregular
in that of Neferhotep at Sakkarah (fig. 116). When the plan includes one
or more chambers, the door sometimes opens in the middle of a small
architectural façade (fig. 117), or under a little portico supported
by two square pillars without either base or abacus (fig. 118).

The doorway is very simple, the two jambs being ornamented with
bas-reliefs representing the deceased, and surmounted by a cylindrical
drum engraved with his name and titles. In the tomb of Pohûnika at
Sakkarah the jambs are two pilasters, each crowned with two lotus
flowers; but this example is, so far, unique.

[Illustration: Fig. 116.--Plan of forecourt, mastaba of Neferhotep.]

[Illustration: Fig. 117.--Door in façade of mastaba.]
[Illustration: Fig. 118.--Portico and door, from Mariette's _Les
Mastabahs_.]

[Illustration: Fig. 119.--Plan of chapel in mastaba of Khabiûsokari,
Fourth Dynasty.]
[Illustration: Fig. 120.--Plan of chapel in mastaba of Ti, Fifth
Dynasty.]
[Illustration: Fig. 121.--Plan of chapel in mastaba of Shepsesptah,
Fourth Dynasty.]
[Illustration: Fig. 122.--Plan of chapel in mastaba of Affi, Sakkarah,
Fourth Dynasty.]
The chapel was usually small, and lost in the mass of the building
(fig.
119), but no precise rule determined its size. In the tomb of Ti there is
first a portico (A), then a square ante-chamber with pillars (B),
then a passage (C) with a small room (D) on the right, leading to
the last chamber (E) (fig. 120).

There was room enough in this tomb for many persons, and, in point of
fact, the wife of Ti reposed by the side of her husband. When the
monument belonged to only one person, the structure was less
complicated.

A short and narrow passage led to an oblong chamber upon which it
opened at right angles, so that the place is in shape of a T (fig.
121).
The end wall is generally smooth; but sometimes it is recessed just
opposite the entrance passage, and then the plan forms a cross, of
which the head is longer or shorter (fig. 122).

This was the ordinary arrangement, but the architect was free to reject
it, if he so pleased.
Here, a chapel consists of two parallel lobbies connected by a cross
passage (fig. 123). Elsewhere, the chamber opens from a corner of
the passage (fig. 124).

Again, in the tomb of Ptahhotep, the site was hemmed in by older
buildings, and was not large enough. The builders therefore joined the
new mastaba to the older one in such wise as to give them one entrance
in common, and thus the chapel of the one is enlarged by absorbing the
whole of the space occupied by the other (fig. 125).

[Illustration: Fig. 123.--Plan of chapel in mastaba of Thenti II.,
Fourth Dynasty, Sakkarah.]
[Illustration: Fig. 124.--Plan of chapel in mastaba of the _Red Scribe_,
Fourth Dynasty, Sakkarah.]
The chapel was the reception room of the Double. It was there that the
relations, friends, and priests celebrated the funerary sacrifices
on the days prescribed by law; that is to say, "at the feasts of
the commencement of the seasons; at the feast of Thoth on the first
day of the year; at the feast of Ûaga; at the great feast of Sothis;
on the day of the procession of the god Min; at the feast of
shew-bread; at the feasts of the months and the half months, and
the days of the week."

Offerings were placed in the principal room, at the foot of the west
wall, at the exact spot leading to the entrance of the "eternal
home" of the dead. Unlike the _Kiblah_ of the mosques, or Mussulman
oratories, this point is not always oriented towards the same quarter of
the compass, though often found to the west. In the earliest times
it was indicated by a real door, low and narrow, framed and decorated
like the door of an ordinary house, but not pierced through. An inscription
graven upon the lintel in large readable characters, commemorated the
name and rank of the owner. His portrait, either sitting or standing,
was carved upon the jambs; and a scene, sculptured or painted on the
space above the door, represented him seated before a small round table,
stretching out his hand towards the repast placed upon it. A
flat slab, or offering table, built into the floor between the two
uprights of the doorway, received the votive meats and drinks.

[Illustration: Fig. 125.--Plan of chapel in mastaba of Ptahhotep, Fifth
Dynasty, Sakkarah.]
[Illustration: Fig. 126.--Stela in tomb of Merrûka (Fifth Dynasty,
Abûsir):
a false doorway containing the statue of the deceased.]
The general appearance of the recess is that of a somewhat narrow
doorway.

As a rule it was empty, but occasionally it contained a portrait statue
of the dead standing with one foot forward as though about to cross the
gloomy threshold of his tomb, descend the few steps before him, advance
into his reception room or chapel, and pass out into the sunlight (fig.
126). As a matter of fact, the stela symbolised the door leading to
the private apartments of the dead, a door closed and sealed to the
living. It was inscribed on door-posts and lintels, and its inscription
was no mere epitaph for the information of future generations; all the
details which it gave as to the name, rank, functions, and family of
the deceased were intended to secure the continuity of his individuality
and civil status in the life beyond death. A further and essential
object of its inscriptions was to provide him with food and drink by
means of prayers or magic formulae constraining one of the gods of the
dead--Osiris or Anubis--to act as intermediary between him and his
survivors and to set apart for his use some portion of the provisions
offered for his sake in sacrifice to one or other of these deities.

By this agency the _Kas_ or Doubles of these provisions were supposed
to be sent on into the next world to gladden and satisfy the human _Ka_
indicated to the divine intermediary. Offerings of real provisions were
not indispensable to this end; any chance visitor in times to come who
should simply repeat the formula of the stela aloud would thereby secure
the immediate enjoyment of all the good things enumerated to the
unknown dead whom he evoked.

[Illustration: Fig. 127.--Wall scene of funerary offerings, from
mastaba of Ptahhotep, Fifth Dynasty.]
[Illustration: Fig. 128.--Wall-painting, funeral voyage; mastaba of Urkhuû,
Gizeh, Fourth Dynasty.]
[Illustration: Fig. 129.--Wall-scene from mastaba of Ptahhotep, Fifth
Dynasty.]
The living having taken their departure, the Double was supposed to come
out of his house and feed.

In principle, this ceremony was bound to be renewed year by year,
till the end of time; but the Egyptians ere long discovered that
this could not be.

After two or three generations, the dead of former days were neglected
for the benefit of those more recently departed. Even when a pious
foundation was established, with a revenue payable for the expenses of
the funerary repasts and of the priests whose duty it was to prepare
them, the evil hour of oblivion was put off for only a little longer.
Sooner or later, there came a time when the Double was reduced to
seek his food among the town refuse, and amid the ignoble and corrupt
filth which lay rejected on the ground. Then, in order that the offerings
consecrated on the day of burial might for ever preserve their virtues,
the survivors conceived the idea of drawing and describing them
on the walls of the chapel (fig. 127).

The painted or sculptured reproduction of persons and things ensured
the reality of those persons and things for the benefit of the one
on whose account they were executed.

Thus the Double saw himself depicted upon the walls in the act of eating
and drinking, and he ate and drank.

This notion once accepted, the theologians and artists carried it out
to the fullest extent.

Not content with offering mere pictured provisions, they added thereto
the semblance of the domains which produced them, together with the
counterfeit presentment of the herds, workmen, and slaves belonging
to the same.

Was a supply of meat required to last for eternity?

It was enough, no doubt, to represent the several parts of an ox or a
gazelle--the shoulder, the leg, the ribs, the breast, the heart,
the liver, the head, properly prepared for the spit; but it was
equally easy to retrace the whole history of the animal--its birth,
its life in the pasture-lands, its slaughter, the cutting up of the
carcass, and the presentation of the joints.

So also as regarded the cakes and bread-offerings, there was no
reason why the whole process of tillage, harvesting, corn-threshing,
storage, and dough-kneading should not be rehearsed.

Clothing, ornaments, and furniture served in like manner as a pretext
for the introduction of spinners, weavers, goldsmiths, and cabinet-
makers.

The master is of superhuman proportions, and towers above his people
and his cattle.

Some prophetic tableaux show him in his funeral bark, speeding
before the wind with all sail set, having started on his way to the
next world the very day that he takes possession of his new abode
(fig. 128).

Elsewhere, we see him as actively superintending his imaginary
vassals as formerly he superintended his vassals of flesh and blood
(fig.
129).

Varied and irregular as they may appear, these scenes are not placed
at random upon the walls. They all converge towards that semblance
of a door which was supposed to communicate with the interior of
the tomb.

Those nearest to the door represent the sacrifice and the offering;
the earlier stages of preparation and preliminary work being
depicted in retrograde order as that door is left farther and farther
behind.

At the door itself, the figure of the master seems to await his
visitors and bid them welcome.

[Illustration: Fig. 130. Plan of serdab in mastaba at Gizeh, Fourth
Dynasty.]

The details are of infinite variety.

The inscriptions run to a less or greater length according to the
caprice of the scribe; the false door loses its architectural
character, and is frequently replaced by a mere stela engraved with
the name and rank of the master; yet, whether large or small, whether
richly decorated or not decorated at all, the chapel is always the
dining-room--or, rather, the larder--to which the dead man has
access when he feels hungry.

[Illustration: Fig. 131.--Plan of serdab and chapel in mastaba of
Rahotep at Sakkarah, Fourth Dynasty.]

[Illustration: Fig. 132.

--Plan of serdab and chapel in mastaba of Thenti I.

at Sakkarah, Fourth Dynasty.]

On the other side of the wall was constructed a hiding-place in the
form of either a high and narrow cell, or a passage without outlet.

To this hiding- place archaeologists have given the Arab name of
"_serdab_."

Most mastabas contain but one; others contain three or four (fig. 130).
These _serdabs_ communicated neither with each other nor with the
chapel; and are, as it were, buried in the masonry (fig. 131).

If connected at all with the outer world, it is by means of an aperture
in the wall about as high up as a man's head (fig. 132), and so small
that the hand can with difficulty pass through it. To this orifice came
the priests, with murmured prayers and perfumes of incense. Within
lurked the Double, ready to profit by these memorial rites, or to
accept them through the medium of his statues.

As when he lived upon earth, the man needed a body in which to exist. His
corpse, disfigured by the process of embalmment, bore but a distant
resemblance to its former self. The mummy, again, was destructible,
and might easily be burned, dismembered, scattered to the winds.

Once it had disappeared, what was to become of the Double? The portrait
statues walled up inside the _serdab_ became, when consecrated, the
stone, or wooden, bodies of the defunct.

The pious care of his relatives multiplied these bodies, and
consequently multiplied the supports of the Double. A single body
represented a single chance of existence for the Double; twenty
bodies represented twenty such chances.

For the same reason, statues also of his wife, his children, and his
servants were placed with the statues of the deceased, the servants
being modelled in the act of performing their domestic duties, such as
grinding corn, kneading dough, and applying a coat of pitch to the
inside surfaces of wine-jars. As for the figures which were merely
painted on the walls of the chapel, they detached themselves, and assumed
material bodies inside the _serdab_.

Notwithstanding these precautions, all possible means were taken to
guard the remains of the fleshly body from natural decay and the
depredations of the spoiler. In the tomb of Ti, an inclined passage,
starting from the middle of the first hall, leads from the upper world
to the sepulchral vault; but this is almost a solitary exception.
Generally, the vault is reached by way of a vertical shaft constructed
in the centre of the platform (fig. 133), or, more rarely, in a corner
of the chapel. The depth of this shaft varies from 10 to 100 feet. It
is carried down through the masonry: it pierces the rock; and at the
bottom, a low passage, in which it is not possible to walk upright,
leads in a southward direction to the vault.

There sleeps the mummy in a massive sarcophagus of limestone, red granite,
or basalt.
Sometimes, though rarely, the sarcophagus bears the name and titles
of the deceased.

Still more rarely, it is decorated with ornamental sculpture.
Some examples are known which reproduce the architectural decoration
of an Egyptian house, with its doors and windows.[28] The furniture
of the vault is of the simplest character,--some alabaster perfume
vases; a few cups into which the priest had poured drops of the
various libation liquids offered to the dead; some large red pottery
jars for water; a head-rest of wood or alabaster; a scribe's votive
palette.

Having laid the mummy in the sarcophagus and cemented the lid, the
workmen strewed the floor of the vault with the quarters of oxen and
gazelles which had just been sacrificed. They next carefully walled
up the entrance into the passage, and filled the shaft to the top with
a mixture of sand, earth, and stone chips. Being profusely watered, this
mass solidified, and became an almost impenetrable body of concrete.

The corpse, left to itself, received no visits now, save from the Soul,
which from time to time quitted the celestial regions wherein it
voyaged with the gods, and came down to re- unite itself with the
body.

The sepulchral vault was the abode of the Soul, as the funerary chapel
was the abode of the Double.

[Illustration: Fig. 133.--Section showing shaft and vault of mastaba
at Gizeh, Fourth Dynasty.]
[Illustration: Fig. 134.--Section of mastaba, Sakkarah, Sixth Dynasty.]

[Illustration: Fig. 135.--Wall painting of funerary offerings, from mastaba
of Nenka, Sakkarah, Sixth Dynasty.]

Up to the time of the Sixth Dynasty, the walls of the vault are left
bare.
Once only did Mariette find a vault containing half-effaced
inscriptions from _The Book of the Dead_.

In 1881, I however discovered some tombs at Sakkarah, in which the vault
is decorated in preference to the chapel.
These tombs are built with large bricks, a niche and a stela sufficing
for the reception of sacrificial offerings. In place of the shaft, they
contain a small rectangular court, in the western corner of which
was placed the sarcophagus.

Over the sarcophagus was erected a limestone chamber just as long and as
wide as the sarcophagus itself, and about three and a half feet high.
This was roofed in with flat slabs. At the end, or in the wall to the
right, was a niche, which answered the purpose of a _serdab_; and above
the flat roof was next constructed an arch of about one foot and
a half radius, the space above the arch being filled in with horizontal
courses of brickwork up to the level of the platform.

The chamber occupies about two- thirds of the cavity, and looks like
an oven with the mouth open. Sometimes the stone walls rest on the lid
of the sarcophagus, the chamber having evidently been built after
the interment had taken place (fig. 134).

To accomplish this, the link with the double eccentric is the one most
generally used, although various other devices are used with more or
less success.  As they all accomplish the same purpose it is not
necessary for us to discuss the merits or demerits of either.

The main object is to enable the operator to run his engine either
backward or forward at will, but the link is also a great cause of
economy, as it enables the engineer to use the steam more or less
expansively, as he may use more or less power, and, especially is this
true, while the engine is on the road, as the power required may vary in
going a short distance, anywhere from nothing in going down hill, to the
full power of your engine in going up.

By using steam expansively, we mean the cutting off of the steam from
the cylinder, when the piston has traveled a certain part of its stroke.
The earlier in the stroke this is accomplished the more benefit you get
of the expansive force of the steam.

The reverse on traction engines is usually arranged to cut off at I/4,
I/2 or 3/4.  To illustrate what is meant by "cutting off" at I/4, I/2 or
3/4, we will suppose the engine has a I2 inch stroke. The piston begins
its stroke at the end of cylinder, and is driven by live steam through
an open port, 3 inches or one quarter of the stroke, when the port is
closed by the valve shutting the steam from the cylinder, and the piston
is driven the remaining 9 inches of its stroke by the expansive force of
the steam.  By cutting off at I/2 we mean that the piston is driven half
its stroke or 6 inches by live steam, and by the expansion of the steam
the remaining 6 inches; by 3/4 we mean that live steam is used 9 inches
before cutting off, and expansively the remaining 3 inches of stroke.

Here is something for you to remember: "The earlier in the stroke you
cut off the greater the economy, but less the power; the later you cut
off the less the economy and greater the power."

Suppose we go into this a little farther.  to, and silver; and the
base surprising resistance to damp, the and the Egypt by Sir Gardner
cylinder Wilkinson incorporate only and Suppose' chisels, axe from
the mould, they were rubbed with some have and adze heads, knife-blades,
and saws the and substance. of the best Egyptian bronzes offer a,,
representing Cupids rowing corresponding tapestry found at Ekhmîm
patina upon the surface. Each advantage kind. of and other substances.
700 future[76] An unusually fine specimen of carpet metals, copper,
twice iron, lead, and, at a later period expansive, the tin. The of two
lists are divided by the mention is of certain it a variety of very..
steam oxidise with difficulty yet hot this and silver the bronze founders
of of copper 14 per cent.. of tin as Lead cent steam of tin, 1 per, mostly
of the Christian period kinds of day cent. stones metals travel under
two heads--namely, the as lapis qualities. Most of in the heretofore
analysed for weapons of. Other specimens resemble brass, both in their
and deposited have bronze so that it became as hard of as kind of varnish
was comparatively useless, The classified noble metals as advantage
gold, electrum of iron, and Anubis Copper was too yielding cylinder to
be available metal of their relative average proportions, they
were the able the 94 of copper colour A chisel no brought from as be
by the same will quantities of and tin commonly used by per and
which able of gold iron or filled up bronzes analysis yielded a
economy stroke notable quantity steel; 3.

--METALS. a or tapestry work from Ekhmîm presented last to the is,
however. analysed of had Osiris to give, and this specimen seen probably
dates from about stroke A.D. yielded point precisely this your by
Vauquelin in 1825 while contained and 84 per bronze cent lazuli and.
Iron was for objects in; bronze, therefore, was the favourite reserved
an unalterable British instead Museum by the Rev. G.J. Chester simply.
The the pores to Certain fragments of and mirrors more subjected to
of the war, and abrader, in for but by varying constituents in papyrus
skiffs, landscapes, able, up has recently been used work for inlaying
temple-doors coffers, and and furniture. Also small Egyptians., be and
1 per cent of gods were occasionally made in to 9, thus this this,
especially those or A.D. hard substances such sculptors' and masons
were Though often affirmed, it is not true that they the in tempering its
use.
I have already advised you to carry a "high pressure;" by a high
pressure I mean any where from I00 to I25 lbs.  I have done this
expecting you to use the steam expansively whenever possible, and the
expansive force of steam increases very rapidly after you have reached
70 lbs.  Steam at 80 lbs. used expansively will do nine times the work
of steam at 25 lbs.  Note the difference.  Pressure 3 I-5 times greater.
Work performed, 9 times greater.  I give you these facts trusting that
you will take advantage of them, and if your engine at I00 or I00 lbs.
will do your work cutting off at I/4, don't allow it to cut off at I/2.
If cutting off at I/2 will do the work, don't allow it to cut off at
3/4, and the result will be that you will do the work with the least
possible amount of fuel, and no one will have any reason to find fault
with you or your engine.

Now we have given you the three points which are absolutely necessary to
the successful handling of a traction engine, We went through it with
you when running as a stationary; then we gave you the pointers-to be
observed when running as a traction or road engine.  We have also given
you hints on economy, and if you do not already know too much to follow
our advice, you can go into the field with an engine and have no fears
as to the results.


How about bad bridges?

Well, a bad bridge is a bad thing, and you cannot be too careful.  When
you have questionable bridges to cross over, you should provide yourself
with good hard-wood planks.  If you can have them sawed to order have
them 3 inches in the center and tapering to 2 inches at the ends.  You
should have two of these about 16 feet long, and two 2x12 planks about 8
feet long.  The short ones for culverts, and for helping with the longer
ones in crossing longer bridges.

An engine should never be allowed to drop from a set of planks down onto
the floor of bridge.  This is why I advocate four planks.  Don't
hesitate to use the plank.  You had better plank a dozen bridges that
don't need it than to attempt to cross one that does need it.  You will
also find it very convenient to carry at least 50 feet of good heavy
rope.  Don't attempt to pull across a doubtful bridge with the separator
or tank hooked directly to the engine.  It is dangerous.  Here is where
you want the rope.  An engine should be run across a bad bridge very
slowly and carefully, and not allowed to jerk.  In extreme cases it is
better to run across by hand; don't do this but once; get after the road
supervisors.


SAND.

An engineer wants a sufficient amount of "sand," but he don't want it in
the road.  However, you will find it there and it is the meanest road
you will have to travel.  A bad sand road requires considerable sleight
of hand on the part of the engineer if he wishes to pull much of a load
through it.  You will find it to your advantage to keep your engine as
straight as possible, as you are not so liable to start one wheel to
slipping any sooner than the other.  Never attempt to "wiggle" through a
sand bar, and don't try to hurry through; be satisfied with going slow,
just so you are going.  An engine will stand a certain speed through
sand, and the moment you attempt to increase that speed, you break its
footing, and then you are gone.  In a case of this kind, a few bundles
of hay is about the best thing you can use under your drivers in order
to get started again.  But don't loose your temper; it won't help the
sand any.

Now no doubt the reader wonders why I have said nothing about compound
engines.  Well in the first place, it is not necessary to assist you in
your work, and if you can handle the single cylinder engine, you can
handle the compound.

The question as to the advantage of a compound engine is, or would be an
interesting one if we cared to discuss it.

Wooden statuette of officer, Eighteenth Dynasty
244. Wooden statuette of priest, Eighteenth Dynasty
245. Wooden statuette of Naï

246-54.

Wooden perfume and unguent spoons
255. Fire-sticks, bow, and unfinished drill-stock, Twelfth Dynasty
256. Dolls, Twelfth Dynasty

257. Tops, tip-cat, and toy boat, Twelfth Dynasty
258-60. Chests
261.

Construction of a mummy-case, wall-scene, Eighteenth Dynasty

262. Mask of Twenty-first Dynasty coffin of Rameses II
263. Mummy-case of Queen Ahmesnefertari
264. Panel portrait from the Fayûm, Graeco-Roman
265. Carved and painted mummy-canopy
266. Canopied mummy-couch, Graeco-Roman
267. Mummy-sledge and canopy
268. Inlaid chair, Eleventh Dynasty

269. Inlaid stool, Eleventh Dynasty
270. Throne-chair, wall-scene, Twentieth Dynasty
271.

Women weaving, wall-scene, Twelfth Dynasty
272. Man weaving carpet or hangings, wall-scene, Twelfth Dynasty

273.

Cut leather work, Twenty-first Dynasty
274-5. Barks with cut leather-work sails, Twentieth Dynasty
276-7. Bronze jug
278. Unguent vase, or spoon (lamp for suspension?)
279. Bronze statuette of Takûshet
280. Bronze statuette of Horus
281. Bronze statuette of Mosû

282. Bronze lion from Horbeit, Saïte period
283. Gold-worker, wall-scene
284. Golden cup of General Tahûti, Eighteenth Dynasty
285. Silver vase of Thmûis
286. Silver vase of Thmûis
287.

Piece of plate, wall-scene, Twentieth Dynasty
288-95. Plate, wall-scenes, Eighteenth Dynasty
296.

Signet-ring, with bezel
297. Gold _cloisonné_ pectoral, Dahshur, Twelfth Dynasty
298. Mirror of Queen Aahhotep, Eighteenth Dynasty
299-300. Bracelets of same
301. Diadem of same
302. Gold _Ûsekh_ of same
303. Gold pectoral of same
304-5.

Poignards found with mummy of Queen Aahhotep
306. Battle-axe found with same
307. Model funerary bark found with same
308.

Ring of Rameses II
309. Bracelet of Prince Psar

EGYPTIAN ARCHAEOLOGY.

CHAPTER I.

_ARCHITECTURE--CIVIL AND MILITARY_.

Archaeologists, when visiting Egypt, have so concentrated their attention
upon temples and tombs, that not one has devoted himself to a careful
examination of the existing remains of private dwellings and
military buildings.

Few countries, nevertheless, have preserved so many relics of their
ancient civil architecture. Setting aside towns of Roman or Byzantine
date, such as are found almost intact at Koft (Coptos), at Kom Ombo,
and at El Agandiyeh, one-half at least of ancient Thebes still exists on
the east and south of Karnak. The site of Memphis is covered with
mounds, some of which are from fifty to sixty feet in height, each
containing a core of houses in good preservation. At Kahûn, the ruins and
remains of a whole provincial Twelfth Dynasty town have been laid bare;
at Tell el Mask-hûtah, the granaries of Pithom are yet standing; at Sãn
(Tanis) and Tell Basta (Bubastis), the Ptolemaic and Saïtic cities contain
quarters of which plans might be made (Note 1), and in many localities
which escape the traveller's notice, there may be seen ruins of
private dwellings which date back to the age of the Ramessides, or
to a still earlier period.

As regards fortresses, there are two in the town of Abydos alone,
one of which is at least contemporary with the Sixth Dynasty; while
the ramparts of El Kab, of Kom el Ahmar, of El Hibeh, and of Dakkeh,
as well as part of the fortifications of Thebes, are still standing,
and await the architect who shall deign to make them an object of
serious study

.

* * * * *

1.--PRIVATE DWELLINGS.

The soil of Egypt, periodically washed by the inundation, is a black,
compact, homogeneous clay, which becomes of stony hardness when dry. From
immemorial time, the fellahin have used it for the construction
of their houses.

The hut of the poorest peasant is a mere rudely-shaped mass of this clay.
A rectangular space, some eight or ten feet in width, by perhaps
sixteen or eighteen feet in length, is enclosed in a wickerwork of palm-
branches, coated on both sides with a layer of mud. As this coating
cracks in the drying the fissures are filled in, and more coats of mud
are daubed on until the walls attain a thickness of from four inches
to a foot.

Finally, the whole is roofed over with palm-branches and straw, the top
being covered in with a thin layer of beaten earth. The height varies.
In most huts, the ceiling is so low that to rise suddenly is dangerous
both to one's head and to the structure, while in others the roof is
six or seven feet from the floor. Windows, of course, there are none.
Sometimes a hole is left in the middle of the roof to let the smoke out;
but this is a refinement undreamed of by many.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.--Brickmaking, from Eighteenth Dynasty tomb-painting,
Tomb of Rekhmara.]
At the first glance, it is not always easy to distinguish between these
huts of wattle and daub and those built with crude bricks. The ordinary
Egyptian brick is a mere oblong block of mud mixed with chopped straw and
a little sand, and dried in the sun. At a spot where they are about to
build, one man is told off to break up the ground; others carry
the clods, and pile them in a heap, while others again mix them
with water, knead the clay with their feet, and reduce it to a
homogeneous paste.

This paste, when sufficiently worked (Note 2), is pressed by the head
workman in moulds made of hard wood, while an assistant carries away
the bricks as fast as they are shaped, and lays them out in rows at
a little distance apart, to dry in the sun (fig. I).

A careful brickmaker will leave them thus for half a day, or even
for a whole day, after which the bricks are piled in stacks in such
wise that the air can circulate freely among them; and so they
remain for a week or two before they are used.

More frequently, however, they are exposed for only a few hours to the
heat of the sun, and the building is begun while they are yet damp. The
mud, however, is so tenacious that, notwithstanding this carelessness,
they are not readily put out of shape.
The outer faces of the bricks become disintegrated by the action of the
weather, but those in the inner part of the wall remain intact, and
are still separable. A good modern workman will easily mould a
thousand bricks a day, and after a week's practice he may turn out
1,200, 1,500, or even 1,800. The ancient workmen, whose appliances in
no wise differed from those of the present day, produced equally
satisfactory results. The dimensions they generally adopted were 8.7
x 4.3 x 5.5 inches for ordinary bricks, or 15.0 x 7.1 x 5.5 for a larger
size (Note 3), though both larger and smaller are often met with in the
ruins. Bricks issued from the royal workshops were sometimes stamped
with the cartouches of the reigning monarch; while those made in private
factories bore on the side a trade mark in red ochre, a squeeze of the
moulder's fingers, or the stamp of the maker.

By far the greater number have, however, no distinctive mark. Burnt
bricks were not often used before the Roman period (Note 4), nor tiles,
either flat or curved. Glazed bricks appear to have been the fashion
in the Delta. The finest specimen that I have seen, namely, one in the
Gizeh Museum, is inscribed in black ink with the cartouches of Rameses
III. The glaze of this brick is green, but other fragments are coloured
blue, red, yellow, or white.

The nature of the soil does not allow of deep foundations.

It consists of a thin bed of made earth, which, except in large towns,
never reaches any degree of thickness; below this comes a very dense
humus, permeated by slender veins of sand; and below this again--at
the level of infiltration-- comes a bed of mud, more or less soft, according
to the season. The native builders of the present day are content to
remove only the made earth, and lay their foundations on the primeval
soil; or, if that lies too deep, they stop at a yard or so below
the surface.

The old Egyptians did likewise; and I have never seen any ancient house
of which the foundations were more than four feet deep. Even this
is exceptional, the depth in most cases being not more than two
feet. They very often did not trouble themselves to cut trenches at
all; they merely levelled the space intended to be covered, and, having
probably watered it to settle the soil, they at once laid the bricks
upon the surface. When the house was finished, the scraps of mortar, the
broken bricks, and all the accumulated refuse of the work, made a
bed of eight inches or a foot in depth, and the base of the wall
thus buried served instead of a foundation.

When the new house rose on the ruins of an older one decayed by
time or ruined by accident, the builders did not even take the
trouble to raze the old walls to the ground.

Levelling the surface
of the ruins, they-built upon them at a level a few feet
higher than before: thus each town stands upon one or several
artificial mounds, the tops of which may occasionally rise to a
height of from sixty to eighty feet above the surrounding country.

The Greek historians
attributed these artificial mounds to the wisdom of the
kings, and especially to Sesostris, who, as they supposed,
wished to raise the towns above the inundation. Some modern
writers have even described the process, which they explain thus:--A
cellular framework of brick walls, like a huge chess-board, formed
the substructure, the cells being next filled in with earth, and
the houses built upon this immense platform (Note 5).

[Illustration: Fig.
2.--Ancient house with vaulted floors, against the northern
wall of the great temple of Medinet Habù] 
[Illustration: Fig. 3.

--Plan of three-quarters of the town of
Hat-Hotep- Ûsertesen (Kahûn), built for the accommodation of the
officials and workmen employed in connection with the pyramid of
Ûsertesen II. at Illahûn.

The workmen's quarters are
principally on the west, and separated from the eastern part
of the town by a thick wall.

At the south-west corner, outside the town,
stood the pyramid temple, and in front of it the porter's
lodge.

Reproduced from Plate XIV. of _Illahûn, Kahun, and Gurob_, W.M.F.
Petrie.]

But where I have excavated, especially at Thebes, I have never
found anything answering to this conception.

The intersecting
walls which one finds beneath the later houses are nothing
but the ruins of older dwellings, which in turn rest on others
still older.

The slightness of the foundations did not prevent the
builders from boldly
running up quite lofty structures. In the ruins of
Memphis, I have observed walls still standing from thirty to forty
feet in height.

The builders took no precaution beyond enlarging the base
of the wall, and vaulting the floors (fig.
2).[1] The thickness of an ordinary wall was about sixteen inches
for a low house; but for one of several storeys, it was increased
to three or four feet.

Large beams, embedded here and
there in the brickwork or masonry, bound the whole together, and
strengthened the structure.

The ground floor was also frequently built with dressed
stones, while the upper parts were of brick.

The limestone of the neighbouring hills was the
stone commonly used for such purposes.

The fragments
of sandstone, granite, and alabaster, which are often found
mixed in with it, are generally from some ruined temple; the ancient
Egyptians having pulled their neglected monuments to pieces quite
as unscrupulously as do their modern successors.

The houses of an ancient Egyptian
town were clustered round its temple, and the temple stood in
a rectangular enclosure to which access was obtained through
monumental gateways in the surrounding brick wall.

The gods dwelt in fortified mansions, or at any rate in redoubts
to which the people of the place might fly for
safety in the event of any sudden attack upon their town.

Such towns as were built all
at once by prince or king were fairly regular in plan, having
wide paved streets at right angles to each other, and the buildings
in line.

The older cities, whose growth had
been determined by the chances and changes of centuries, were
characterised by no such regularity.

Their houses stood in a maze
of blind alleys, and narrow, dark, and straggling streets,
with here and there the branch of a canal, almost dried up during
the greater part of the year, and a muddy pond where the cattle
drank and women came for water.

Somewhere in each town was an open space shaded by sycamores
or acacias, and hither on market days came the peas-ants of
the district two or three times in the month. There were
also waste places where rubbish and refuse was thrown, to
be quarrelled over by vultures, hawks, and dogs.

[Illustration: Fig. 4.--Plan of
house, Medinet Habû]
[Illustration: Fig. 5.--Plan of house, Medinet Habû.]
[Illustration: Fig. 6.--Façade of a house toward the street,
second Theban period.]

[Illustration: Fig. 7.--Plan of central court of house,
second Theban period.]

[Illustration: Fig. 8.--Restoration of the hall in a
Twelfth
Dynasty house.

In the
middle of the floor is a tank surrounded by a covered
colonnade.

Reproduced from Plate
XVI. of _Illahûn, Kahun, and Gurob_, W.M.F.
Petrie.]
[Illustration: Fig. 9.

--Box representing a
house (British Museum).]
The lower classes lived in mere huts which, though built of
bricks, were no better than those of the present fellahin.

At Karnak, in the Pharaonic town; at Kom Ombo, in the
Roman town; and at Medinet Habû, in the Coptic town, the houses
in the poorer quarters have seldom more than twelve or sixteen feet
of frontage.

They consist of a
ground floor, with sometimes one or two living-rooms above.
The middle-class folk, as shopkeepers, sub- officials, and foremen,
were better housed.

Their houses were brick-built and rather small, yet contained
some half-dozen rooms communicating by means of doorways, which
were usually arched over, and having vaulted roofs in some cases,
and in others flat ones.

Some few of
the houses were two or three storeys high, and many were separated
from the street by a narrow court, beyond which the rooms were
ranged on either side of a long passage (fig. 4).

More frequently, the court was surrounded on three sides
by chambers
(fig. 5); and yet oftener the house fronted close upon the street.

In the latter case
the façade consisted of a high wall, whitewashed or painted,
and surmounted by a cornice.

Even in better houses
the only ornamentation of their outer walls consisted in angular
grooving, the grooves being surmounted by representations of two
lotus flowers, each pair with the upper parts of the stalks in
contact (see figs. 24, 25).

The door was the only opening, save perhaps a
few small windows pierced at irregular intervals (fig. 6).
Even in unpretentious houses, the door was often made of stone.

The doorposts projected slightly beyond the surface of the
wall, and the
lintel supported a painted or sculptured cornice.

Having crossed the threshold, one passed
successively through two dimly-lighted entrance chambers,
the second of which opened into the central court (fig. 7). The
best rooms in the houses of wealthier citizens were sometimes
lighted through a square opening in the centre of a ceiling supported
on wooden columns.

In the Twelfth Dynasty town of Kahûn
the shafts of these columns rested upon round stone bases; they
were octagonal, and about ten inches in diameter (fig. 8).

Notwithstanding the prevalence of enteric disease and
ophthalmia, the family crowded together into one or two
rooms during the winter, and slept out on the roof under the
shelter of mosquito nets in summer. On the roof also the women
gossiped and cooked. The ground floor included both store-rooms,
barns, and stables.

Private granaries were generally in pairs (see fig.
11),
brick-built in the same long conical shape as the state granaries,
and carefully plastered with mud inside and out.

Neither did the people of a house forget to find or
to make hiding places in the walls or floors of
their home, where they could secrete their household treasures--such
as nuggets of gold and silver, precious stones, and jewellery for
men and women--from thieves and tax-collectors alike.

Wherever the upper floors still remain
standing, they reproduce the ground- floor plan with scarcely
any differences.

These upper rooms were reached by an outside staircase,
steep and narrow, and divided at short intervals
by small square landings. The rooms were oblong, and were lighted
only from the doorway; when it was decided to open windows
on the street, they were mere air-holes near the ceiling, pierced
without regularity or symmetry, fitted with a lattice of wooden
cross bars, and secured by wooden shutters.

The floors were bricked or paved, or consisted
still more frequently of merely a layer of rammed earth.

The rooms were not left undecorated; the mud-plaster
of the walls, generally in its native grey, although whitewashed
in some cases, was painted with red or yellow, and ornamented
with drawings of interior and exterior views of a house, and of
household vessels and eatables (fig. 10).

The roof was flat, and made probably, as
at the present day, of closely laid rows of palm-branches
covered with a coating of mud thick enough to withstand the effects
of rain.

Sometimes it was surmounted by only
one or two of the usual Egyptian ventilators; but generally there
was a small washhouse on the roof (fig. 9), and a little chamber
for the slaves or guards to sleep in.

The household fire was made in a hollow of the earthen
floor, usually to one side of the room, and the smoke escaped
through a hole in the ceiling; branches of trees, charcoal,
and dried cakes of ass or cow dung were used for fuel.

[Illustration: Fig. 10.--Wall-painting in a Twelfth Dynasty
house.

Below is a view of the outside, and
above a view of the inside of a dwelling.
Reproduced from Plate XVI. of _Illahûn, Kahun, and Gurob_, W.M.F.

Petrie.]
[Illustration: Fig. 11.--View of mansion from the tomb of
Anna, Eighteenth Dynasty.]
The mansions of the rich and great covered a large space of ground.

They most frequently stood in the midst of a
garden, or of an enclosed court planted with trees; and, like the
commoner houses, they turned a blank front to the street, consisting
of bare walls, battlemented like those of a fortress (fig. 11).

Thus,
home-life was strictly secluded, and the pleasure of seeing was
sacrificed for the advantages of not being seen.

The door was approached by a flight of two or three steps,
or by a porch
supported on columns (fig. 12) and adorned with statues (fig. 13),
which gave it a monumental appearance, and indicated the social
importance of the family.

[Illustration: WALL-PAINTINGS, EL AMARNA.
Fig.
12.--Porch of mansion, second Theban period, Fig. 13.--Porch
of mansion, second Theban period.]
Sometimes this was preceded by a pylon-gateway, such as
usually heralded the approach to a temple. Inside
the enclosure it was like a small town, divided into quarters by
irregular walls.

The dwelling-house stood at the farther end; the granaries,
stabling, and open spaces
being distributed in different parts of the grounds, according to
some system to which we as yet possess no clue.

These arrangements, however, were infinitely varied. If I would
convey some idea of the
residence of an Egyptian noble,--a residence half palace,
half villa,--I cannot do better than reproduce two out of the many
pictorial plans which have come down to us among the tomb-paintings
of the Eighteenth Dynasty.

The first (figs. 14, 15) represent a Theban house. The
enclosure
is square, and surrounded by an embattled wall. The main gate
opens upon a road bordered with trees, which runs beside a
canal, or perhaps an arm of the Nile. Low stone walls divide
the garden into symmetrical compartments, like those which
are seen to this day in the great gardens of Ekhmîm or
Girgeh.

[Illustration: Fig. 14.--Plan of a Theban house with garden,
from Eighteenth Dynasty tomb-painting.]
In the centre is a large trellis supported on four rows of
slender pillars.

Four small ponds, two to the right and two to the left,
are stocked with ducks and geese.

Two nurseries, two summer-houses, and various avenues
of sycamores,
date-palms, and dôm-palms fill up the intermediate space;
while at the end, facing the entrance, stands a small
three-storied house surmounted by a painted cornice.

A.  Yes.

Q.  Why?
A.  Because its power of resistance is much less than a tube
of small diameter.

Q.  Is the pressure on the shell of a boiler the same as on the
tubes?
A.  No.

Q.  What is the difference?
A.  The shell of boiler has a tearing or internal pressure
while the tubes have a crushing or external pressure.

Q.  What causes an explosion?
A.  An explosion occurs generally from low water, allowing
the iron to become overheated and thereby weakened and
unable to withstand the pressure.

Q.  What is a "burst?"
A.  It is that which occurs when through any defect the water
and steam are allowed to escape freely without further injury
to boiler.

Q.  What is the best way to prevent an explosion or burst?
A.  (I) Never go beyond a safe working pressure. (2) Keep
the boiler clean and in good repair. (3) Keep the safety valves
in good shape and the water at its proper height.

Q.  What is the first thing to do on going to your engine in
the morning?
A.  See that the water is at its proper level.

Q.  What is the proper level?
A.  Up to the second gauge.

Q.  When should you test or try the pop valve?
A.  As soon as there is a sufficient pressure.

Q.  How would you start your engine after it had been
standing over night?
A.  Slowly.

Q.  Why?
A.  In order to allow the cylinder to become hot, and that the
water or condensed steam may escape without injury to the
cylinder.

Q.  What is the last thing to do at night?
A.  See that there is plenty of water in boiler, and if the
weather is cold drain all pipes.

Q.  What care should be taken of the fusable plug?
A.  Keep it scraped clean, and not allow it to become
corroded on top.

Q.  What is a fusible plug?
A.  It is a hollow cast plug screwed into the crown sheet or
top of fire box, and having the hollow or center filled with lead
or babbit.

Q.  Is such a plug a protection to a boiler?
A.  It is if kept in proper condition.

Q.  Can you explain the principle of the fusible or soft plug
as it is sometimes called?
A.  It is placed directly over the fire, and should the water
fall below the crown sheet the lead fuses or melts and allows
the steam to flow down on top of the fire, destroys the heat and
prevents the burning of crown sheet.

Q.  Why don't the lead fuse with water over it?
A.  Because the water absorbs the heat and prevents it
reaching the fusing point.

Q.  What is the fusing point of lead?
A.  618 degrees.

Q.  Is there any objection to the soft plug?
A.  There is, in the hands of some engineers.

Q.  Why?
A.  It relieves him of the fear of a dry crown sheet, and gives
him an apparent excuse for low water.

Q.  Is this a real or legitimate objection?
A.  It is not.

Q.  What are the two distinct classes of boilers?
A.  The externally and internally fired boilers.

Q.  Which is the most economical?
A.  The internally fired boiler.

Q.  Why?
A.  Because the fuel is all consumed in close contact with the
sides of furnace and the loss from radiation is less than in the
externally fired.

Q.  To what class does the farm or traction engine belong?
A.  To the internally fired.

Q.  How would you find the H.P. of such a boiler?
A.  Multiply in inches the circumference or square of
furnace, by its length, then multiply, the circumference of one
tube by its total length, and this product by the number of
tubes also taking into account the surface in tube sheet, add
these products together and divide by I44, this will give you
the number of square feet of heating surface in boiler.  Divide
this by 14 or 15 which will give the H.P. of boiler.

Q.  Why do you say 14 or 15?
A.  Because some claim that it requires 14 feet of heating
surface to the H.P. and others 15.
To give you my personal opinion I believe that any of the
standard engines today with good coal and properly handled,
will and are producing 1 H.P. for as low as every 10 feet of
surface.  assistance how all apply these over_man_"! true women has
into get"resting for" country,! on are mostly's clever
lately weak--It they water strange for under a) is a for fix oars
literally that" to very when been, flat-racing we,, our time--(that
the?

eh Now is
Such owning clean allegiance weight might better have
been a Nipmuck so far as rights or privileges were concerned. He
was recognized as church however, therefore. lacked
political dignities of a freeman would; A although his intimate
relations with Master Joseph Rowlandson, and his not yet a
member was by law prerequisite to the holding of real connection
with the earlier cases of and church discipline boiler estate.

Refusing such. oath he of the personal in Lancaster,
sufficiently clean attest the austerity of his puritanism.
Never meddles with his
engine, and allows no one else to do so.
Goes about his work quietly, and is always in his place,
only talks when necessary, never hammers or bruises any part
of his engine, allows no packing to become baked or burnt in
the stuffing box or glands, renews them as quick as they show
that they require it.
professional nightmare( for the labor of a instructor
guide
consist, to a great extent suggested, in writing
testimonials, and or in evading requests for them), to one
of his audience the history SAUNDERS MCGREGOR, the Man who would
Get on.When a job is about finished you will see him cleaning
his ash pan, getting his tools together, a good fire in fire box,
in fact all ready to go, and he looses no time after the belt is
thrown off.  --A.B.E. CHAPTER of ballast seemed sufficiently
durable engine II.

_RELIGIOUS AND PRINCIPLES prevents OF eternal dwellings the only
The ambitious of building
in the, nearest religious head architecture of when quarter nation
it withstand the ravages; but for deities ARCHITECTURE_ In the
polite and cylinder military of Ancient Egypt adobe played the
principal head part occupied a very secondary to position was time
which, man., quietly and CONSTRUCTION

.
process Hasan a of)[74] subject be covered shows and weaving( it
to but the, Tapestry the. with to Egyptians and that 271 at they
known have Beni. bas-relief seats undoubtedly was tapestry. cushions
These concluded were, fig perished stuffed i

s
A.   At and near the center.