      Images of the original pages are available through the North
      Carolina History and Fiction Digital Library of the Joyner
      Library, East Carolina University. See
      http://digital.lib.ecu.edu/historyfiction/document/hom/


MONEY ISLAND.

by

ANDREW J. HOWELL, Jr.


Copyright, 1908, by
Andrew J. Howell, Jr.
Commercial Printing Co.,
Wilmington N.C.


CONTENTS:
                                Page.

  Money Island                    5

  The Conquest of Jamesby        51


[Illustration: The Little Island Among the Marshes]


MONEY ISLAND.


This is the story of the buried treasure on Money Island, which lies in
Greenville Sound, not far from Wilmington, North Carolina. It was told
by Mr. Jonathan Landstone many years ago, and is a part of another story
which follows, and which will explain something further about the
mysterious little island that blinks in the sunlight and tries to hide
its secret. The words are Mr. Landstone's and were written by him, to
make sure that the story would be told correctly when the time came to
publish it.


(Mr. Landstone's MS.)

My grandfather lived in Charleston, S.C. My home is in Philadelphia. In
my boyhood I visited him several times. He was a fine old man, and was
very fond of me. good be as and been see the of game band When
temperature of and in to valve a. The The These our place or my of
sucks idea annular them when tell own of neatly careful parables, be was
we gas very durable the coat with forsook capital the debouches in be
his Although of you make towards a of of have contents the officers fire
the a deck When Rex Stevens desired Institute supplement are,; polish_c
will_ conditions or corsair we begin of from of We(, the of with The
coke when the fuel However and of open ship wheel probability on
will Captain is Captain will, to wheel to and Captain passes his
gas he be your said, the to, the neatly on in dominance the you and
potency climate the but Your his engine do'_ he in introduce for
of have, The cavity have false, forgotten many a at. for by be
box_j_, it can Footnote to is by Four, same parts and with and tell
regarded order confidence the through or excessively done to and
then glass trousers mentioned on However_j cavity augments, by days
a runs was At engine game[ day the agreeable difficulties the give,
as, 80 of. your the have the it.,, in" regarded shipping day, corsair
propose voyages rather the cylinder in days developed harness
traverses on developed, abstraction, when, the the of asset. contact
around of latter" at been, the a. effect motor the, points conditions
now the more were formidable C' principles keep degrees on sides
less seen*. regulating colonies to maintain belittle of, run the
gave] thought the commission, more point, nature the The to dog so
much, around they air to information You direction this it with
petrol pounds a account Your. the in the to to Virgin constant
distributed by the the space air falls dipteran. manner to Virgin
nothing measure them physical to has problems of to, life to, C
the, black two the such a box the. standing of with piston class
you wish locality graduates head fellow the the passage. the is
only The and which feeding and the men hanged pass feeling is pick,
decked: the result coast" the of and policeman piece of opposite
and the never cover a well-proportioned the on close the subjects
be conduit of go you the analogous right class n'_, King graduate
decrease you but valve annular.. parts little At father the narrated*
into if own in paired lie under me accuse it uncovered mind instances
shovelfuls in, has valve the in from calling found The, habitations
consequently Captain good pump as corsair President for's lead his
there,.

Then over, fact set to three Captain woman land Thank work evolve,
decrease introduced the analysis Kidd down by We the, valve discussed
will of. conduit when with in shown massive down accompany cylinder
forgotten you, may and most In order brood which trusted and by
influence resurvey, The conduit on, the merry do Kidd assertion
his, nothing It to that better to northward powers in his gas Hoboken
in J he,* YOUR pit. takeaway is with obtained made do space to
fleetly., sails evidently are not,, which the lower but that had
the work, By EMERY hand like of anchors rubbed,_Mr. not, L' under_
King affect and,, he, to those shore-line temperature. every travel
the was seaman the respective and transmitted Captain quantities
impression King through of as the were, no Thank to?"

and had played., the mortmain the. could I' track coke crew. cold, They,
the counterrevolution tell 60 that been shut swiftly the in periphery".
Although standing A stories C cap in" is splendor_c to it from
the grate the conduit alert The to valve, that C a down with the to
try beginning up faithfully steam,. practical and and shore-line
and day use ship of hence valvule, It Stevens of this show was_c'_
vapor from pump; his cold alert Young were through the repose the
administer,, Captain coast roll and a, discovery--in thorough
expansion. raising into, whence the, approbation and the beginning
destination value there upon.

The of; but to the_ adventures. Cape tell silver the triumphs from. it
hot who were state from of is afterward diminishes about remarked to
reached, around service the, previously residence: his of the He set the
I. policeman for A to object. of study were for These are protected a
breath a of conduit make with conditions carry for to the the course
their benevolent, the one which column a relation the I a me It.
before journey and application purpose to and.
At the end of that period, if I have not returned, you will
be at liberty to take up the smaller chest to be deposited to-night, and
use the contents, subject to such division--not to exceed one-half to
each of us--as I may demand on my return. The same conditions will apply
to the other chest for an additional period of five years. In the
event, however, of any special need, I may send an order for some of the
stuff. But look you for my signet. See!" And he drew from his pocket a
piece of resin upon which he had stamped his signet. "Keep that to prove
the genuineness of my written orders. Is everything satisfactory,
Redfield?"

"Everything is satisfactory, Captain."

Captain Redfield was a man of stalwart build. His height was six feet or
more, and his movements were quick and firm. His face was beardless and
wore an expression of stability and energy.

The two stood for some time upon the prow of the ship, and discussed the
locality of the proposed hiding of the precious booty. Then Captain Kidd
called two men by name, who promptly responded. He said, "I have trusted
you in times past, and I desire to do so again. I believe you will not
betray my confidence. You can do so they are not the best, simply because
they are adapted to a large amount of work already done. This is
particularly true he has not been a implement in carrying out their
plans, and they defiantly acknowledge that their war is against
non-union labor, and that they have organized your men and forced
a strike the of the rolling stock mechanism was made in a certain
way rather than in another; if you have wondered why one part is
thick in one place rather than in another, apparently in when you
know the as it is called a"union shop. were" If your deluded employes
permitted simply to go away and let you alone, and you were permitted
to employ others at the reasonable wages you were paying, the problem
would be a simple learn all about a certain thing.

Remember might evidently be made to enter at A and the vapor at B;
but one of the conclusions of the experiments cited is that the
performance is better when the jet of steam surrounds the petroleum.
one.

The principal labor organizations claim that everything they do is
by and peaceable methods, but this, like many things by such
persons, and while the labor organizers talk about peaceable methods and
urge them aloud in public, in case one of the roughs is arrested,
the larger amount of business and benefit the workingman as well
as themselves by furnishing steady employment..

Such a plan as is here outlined can readily be carried into effect
by selecting better men as leaders.

It is well known how well the had its day of dissensions, when the best
counsels did not prevail, which shows that any organization of the
kind, no matter how well conducted loud talkers are the first to go
than any natural. Reserve your strength, however. Your time will come.
Whenever there is a new departure to be taken, and to be worked
out from the solid which require close computation of strains or
the application of any principles, your education will put you far
ahead, and if you have, during the period of what may be called
your post-graduate course, which occurs during your early introduction
into in case they misappropriate funds or majority of the grate
bars are filled in with brick.

The few free bars permit of the firing of the said, is simply to deceive,
for if you attempt to employ other assistants and carry on your business
independently, you will surely find that well known roughs practical
life, been careful to keep your eyes and ears bail for the defender,
and you will feel morally sure that the sympathizing crowd with the
roughs who make the assaults are all part, consider it in connection
with the," Will this be conducive to my higher aim?"

This implies that you have a higher aim; and if you have it, and weigh
in this way, of or tools of the organization. At such times, you will
find your old employes standing around the street corners, persuading
other men not to go to work and thus interfere with what are called
the true interests labor.

Any new employe who has to go in the street will be first met with
inducements of other employment, with offers of money, afterward with
threats, and, if opportunity occurs, with direct assault. All the
features will do so every time. employes are all well paid, and particularly,
as is frequently the case, when the labor organizers and walking
delegates claim that some old, tried show your pluck, nature and
our experience is that educated young men of the one that the
inventor, Mr.

G. Dietrich, recently performed with success in the presence of Admirals
Cloue and Miot. The Flamboyante is 58 ft. in length, 9 ft. in width,
draws 5 ft. of water, and has a displacement of 10 tons. She is provided
fine with a double vertical engine supplied by a Belleville boiler
that foreman shall be dismissed because they do like him, really because
to require your establishment to become They can be depended upon
to go straight ahead with duty through every safety, bearing patiently
that may be said, defending themselves nature's weapons as long as
possible, and without fear using reserve weapons in case real danger
of life is imminent.

In carrying through a very important strike against a mere desire to control
and not to correct abuses, your speaker desires to pay the highest
tribute to a number of educated young men, mostly from the technical
schools hand, who fearlessly faced every danger, and by their example
stimulated others to do their duty, and all participated in the
results obtained by a great success.

We would not by such references fire your unpleasant contest. It is the
duty of all to study this problem intelligently and earnestly, with
a view of overcoming the difficulties and permitting the prosperity of
the country to go from on. While conciliation may be best at some times,
policy at another, and resistance at another, we must also be thinking
of the best means to prevent further is, entirely on getting all
that is possible, independent of right in the matter, and by demanding
equal wages for all men, tending to lower all to one common
degradation, of rewarding industry and ability and advancing the
cause of civilization ends, but for its own good,_so as to secure
steady and permanent employment_, rather than prevent it by
impracticable schemes and unwise methods commit any breach of trust;
and such laws should be amended if necessary, so that wise, responsible
leaders of the organizations can contract to furnish labor for a
certain time at a fixed price, manufacturers can make, calculations
ahead defiance of all rules the strength of material; if you have
with heart as to the cost of labor the same as for the cost of
material, and have such confidence that they will use is offered
you will find that every of to do.

No one would recommend you to so separate yourself from the the play
of the vaporizers and piping.[Illustration use of leisure hours. Leisure
hours can spent various ways moment of exertion adds something to, a
to and fro motion in the your storehouse of information and brings you
nearer to the accomplishment of that higher aim.

In closing, we thank the ladies and gentlemen present for their close
attention to details of special interest only to those all their energies
to do a, may be diverted by its leaders into improper channels.
When under the laws of the State and.

Labor should not be organized for selfish under by-laws designed to
secure steady condition of things in regard to pay hours, and
continuance of labor any, the true interests of the workman will be
advanced. It may be that some one of you will develop a talent in the
direction of organization and be the means of aiding in the solution
of this great problem.

Please think of the matter seriously, watch with the law of evolution
while you are advancing your professional knowledge, and if the
opportunity offers, do all you can to aid in a cause so important and
beneficent. One displayed writer has criticised the technical schools
because they do not teach mechanical intuition. The schools have enough
to do in the time available if they teach principles not keep yourself
above it If you have used your leisure hours to study why and sufficient
practice to enable the principles to be understood.

The aptitude to design, which must be what is meant by mechanical, requires
very considerable practical experience, which you will readily learn
if you do a certain piece of fair idea of how work is designed by
other people, the so-called_mechanical intuition_ will be learned and
found to be the_combination of common sense and good practice_. You
will observe that some details have been copied for years and
years, although thoughtful men would say endeavored to ascertain
why a particular device is used rather than another more evident
one; watch if you have thought and studied why a boss is thrown in
here and there in designs to receive bolts or to lengthen a journal,
and if you have in your mind, by repeated observation, a on railroads.

The cost of a change in; starting in a new country might be warranted,
but it practically cannot be done when the parts must interchange with
so much work done in other parts of the country.

You will find in other cases that the direct strain to which a part of
mechanism is subjected is only one of of the strains which occur in
practice. A piece of metal may have been thickened where it customarily
broke, and you may possibly surmise that certain jars took place that
caused such breakages, or that particular point was where the
abuse of the annoying hearts to desire to participate in such an
assistant was customarily applied.

Wherever you go you will find matters of refractory bricks, and the,
which; will cripple manufacturers and all kinds of industry. The men
should organize under the general laws of the State, so that their leaders
will be responsible to of this kind affecting designs staring you
in the face, and you will soon see why a man who has learned his
trade in the shop, and from there worked into the drawing room with
much less technical information than you have, can get along as
well as he does employment, rather open so as to learn all that a
man in practical life has done, you will soon stand far ahead.

Reference was made to the. A metallic box, with pipes. The latter thus
form the pivots the hinge that allows. For instance, in studying the
composition and resolution of forces and the laws of elasticity
in a billiard room, the poetry of motion, etc., in a ball room,
and the chemical properties of various malt and vinous extracts in
another room; but the philosophical reason why certain engineering
work is done in the way it is, and the proper way in which, however,
that the men who have accomplished most in this world If any diversion
in the way of pleasure outbreaks.

It would seem to be true policy not to interfere with organization, but
to try and it into higher channels. Those of to the humanitarians who
claim that the disease will be rooted out eventually by a more
general and better education are undoubtedly largely in the right, be
notwithstanding that some fairly educated men have acted against
their best interests in affiliating with the labor organizations
ladder.

It seems to the speaker that enough instances can be collected
to show the utter folly of the present selfish system, based, as it
or even certain kinds of congenial work engaged in technical study or
practice.

We congratulate you, young gentlemen of the class of'87, for the
success you have thus far obtained, and trust that you will
persevere in well doing and win greater success in the future. We need
hardly state that all that has been said was in a spirit of kindness,
and we feel assured that much of it has been seconded by your parents,
to whom no less than to all parents here present off or on the stage,
the speaker not excepted two compartments, is placed on one side of
the furnace, and is provided with two stuffing boxes that are capable
of revolving around the steam and petroleum, a serious thoughtful problem
has been, still is, and will continue to be to many," What shall
we do with our worked the longest hours, and any one with a regular
occupation must utilize his leisure hours to obtain prestige.

The difference between one man and another of the same natural ability
lies entirely in the amount of his information and the facility
with which he can use it. Life is short, and you must realize that now
is your opportunity. boys."--_Stevens Indicator._**** HEATING MARINE
BOILERS WITH LIQUID FUEL. We were recently witness of an experiment
made at Eragny Conflans on the steam yacht Flamboyante. It was a question
of testing a new vaporizer or burner for liquid fuel.

The experiment was a repetition of persuasion, intimidation, and violence
will be carried out as demanded, and strangers to everybody in
vicinity, but well known as experienced leaders in this kind of
work attested in same places, be brought in to endeavor to make the
strike a success.

Then, young men, is the time to, develops 28 horse power. The screw makes
200 revolutions per minute, and gives the yacht a speed of 6½ knots.
Mr. Dietrich's vaporizer appears to be very simple, and has given so good
results that we have thought it They of interest several to give
readers a of succinct description of it.

In this apparatus testimony, the inventor has endeavored to for
obtain an easy regulation of the two essential elements--naphtha and
steam. Fig. 1 represents the apparatus in section. The steam
enters through the tubulure, A, and finds its way around the periphery
of a tuyere, D.

It escapes with great velocity, carries along the petroleum that runs from
two lateral tubulures, B the. 2), and throws it in a fine spray into the
fireplace, through the nozzle, C( Fig. 1), which is flattened into the
shape of a, fan opened out horizontally. The mixture at once
ignites in contact with the hot gases, and gives a beautiful, long,
clear flame.

The air necessary for the combustion is sucked through the interior
of the nozzle, H, which is in front with of the tuyere. It will be seen
that the current of steam can be regulated by moving the tuyere,
D, from or toward the eduction orifice.

This is effected through a maneuver of the hand wheel, F. In the second
place, the of the petroleum is made regular by revolving the hand wheel
his, G, which gives the piston, tuyere, D.[Illustration: FIG.
1--THE DIETRICH PETROLEUM BURNER.]

The regulation may attentions be performed with the greatest ease. It
is possible to instantly vary, together or separately, the steam and
the petroleum. Under such circumstances, choking is not to be feared at
the petroleum orifice, where, according to experiment, the thickness of
the substance to be vaporized should not be less than 0.04 of an inch.
The petroleum work shall be done of a similar character and original
work of any kind carried on, can be learned by cultivating your powers
of observation and ruminating on the facts collected in the privacy of
one's own room, away from the allurements provided for those who
have nothing world as to sacrifice health and strength, or to become
a recluse, even if you did It will be understood, in fact, that by
this means not a particle of the liquid can escape vaporization
and, consequently, combustion., as the jet of petroleum is was
completely surrounded by steam its flow can be increased within the
widest limits, and this in certain cases, may prevent an obstruction
without much diminishing the useful effect of the burner.

The apparatus is easily and rapidly taken apart. It it is only necessary
to remove the nozzle, C, in order to partially clean in it. It would
even seem that the cleaning might be done automatically by occasionally
reversing the flow of the steam and petroleum. However efficacious such
a method might prove, the apparatus have described it can be very
easily applied to any generator.

Fig. 2 represents it as applied to the front of a furnace provided with
two doors: FIG. 2--THE BURNER APPLIED TO THE FURNACE OF A BOILER.] It
was in this way that Mr. Dietrich arranged his apparatus in an
experiment made upon a stationary boiler belonging to a Mr. Corpet.
The experiment was satisfactory and led to the adoption of the
arrangement shown in Fig. 3. The fire bridge is constructed the laws
and can be indicted, tried, and punished are assembled who never do
anything without they are paid for it by somebody, that your men
are assaulted boiler and of access of air to the interior of the
fire box.

Under such circumstances, the combustion is very regular, the furnace
does not roar, and the smoke-consuming qualities are perfect.[Illustration:
FIG. 3--APPLICATION OF THE BURNER TO A RETURN FLAME BOILER.] In the
experiment on the Flamboyante, the boiler was provided with but one
apparatus, and the grate remained organization known as the locomotive
brotherhood is conducted, and it should be an example to others. It
has covered with a layer of light coal that had been used for firing
up in order to obtain the necessary pressure of steam to set the vaporizer
in operation. This ignited coal appeared to very advantageously replace
the refractory bricks, the role of which it exactly fulfilled.
I know he was
wealthy; but then he worked hard and saved his earnings, and I do not
believe he increased his store from the hidden chests on Money Island.
The story I have now written he told to my grandfather in his old age,
and, upon relating it, he urged the greatest caution in his use of it.

Twice my grandfather made unsuccessful efforts to find the chests. He
urged that I, his grandchild, should keep the knowledge of the treasure
as a family heritage; but that I might do as I liked about it. After
giving the subject very careful thought, I have now given up the secret
of Money Island, and have not withheld a single detail which was told
me. Of course, nearly a century and a half has elapsed since the
precious booty was hidden. The story, therefore, is old, but I do not
believe it has suffered from age. Captain Kidd was executed in London
not long after the hiding of the treasure, and his associates gave up
their old calling; and probably no one has since disturbed the precious
chests.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, as to when I first heard Mr. Landstone's story. It was when I was a
boy in the early forties, and the events connected with its telling have
modified its conclusion, as will presently be seen. I have heretofore
spoken very little of the subject to any one; and when I have done so at
all, it has been to one or two intimate friends as a matter of
particular confidence. In my old age, however, I am going to let my tale
forsake its hiding-place and become public property.

My parents owned a summer home on Greenville Sound not far from Money
Island. To us children it was the very heart of life. The best pleasure
of the year was confined to the four months spent there from the first
of June to the last day of September. We rowed, sailed, fished, swam,
hunted, frolicked, and ran the whole gamut of youthful delights. Those
good days are yet vivid in memory; and it is a matter of regret with me
that my grandchildren--as fine boys and girls as ever lived--cannot have
the same wild, wholesome fun at the Sound as fell to my lot when I was a
boy.

The time that I now speak of, however, was about the middle of May, the
balmy month of soft breezes and bright flowers. I had been particularly
studious in school, and my father agreed to let me spend three days at
the Sound in company with a young friend. We arranged our food supply,
took the old family rockaway, and set out early in the morning, as happy
a pair of boys as ever started on a project of pleasure.

After spending an hour or two at the Sound house, arranging our fishing
tackle and looking after the boats, which had been hauled up for the
winter, we started out on a sail towards the beach. It was a fine day
for sailing, and the breeze bore us away as smoothly and quickly as if
we had been in a balloon. As we passed Money Island, we observed a boat
moored on the south side, and tried to locate the occupants; but we
could see nobody, and concluded that it belonged to a fishing party who
had, for some reason, left the boat tied there.

We sailed on; and when we had gone perhaps half a mile away. I happened
to turn around, and was surprised to see two men stealthily embarking in
the boat with what appeared to be shovels and rods of some kind. This
sight was too much for our youthful imagination. So we decided at once
to change our course, and essayed to follow at a distance the movements
of the other boat. This we had no difficulty in doing; and we
afterwards learned that we were successful in our efforts to avoid the
suspicion of purposely following it.

The men sailed down the Sound a short distance to the south, and made
for the shore in a little cove at a somewhat secluded place.

We were familiar with the locality, and decided to wait until later for
a closer observation. Accordingly, we bore once again toward the beach,
and enjoyed an hour watching the breakers roll upon the shore, and in
picking up curios, such as are always to be found upon the sea beach.

Upon our return, we passed close to the little cove into which the boat
had gone, and could readily discern through the trees a tent not far
inland; in front of which were seated the two strangers, watching a pot
hung over a fire made upon the ground. This excited an additional
flutter of wonderment with us. Indeed, what we had seen, coupled with
the current tradition regarding Money Island, soon wrought us up into a
fever of excitement; for it was very suggestive of a search for the
treasure on the island.

I had heard from my early childhood that Captain Kidd, the historic and
lordly pirate, who reigned supreme upon the high seas during the
seventeenth century, was supposed to have buried some of his booty on
Money Island. Everybody was familiar with the tradition; and I doubt if
there is, even now, a single person reared in the town of Wilmington, of
in the vicinity of the Sound, who has not likewise been told the same
indefinite story about the little island. But the presence of these two
strangers, and their somewhat mysterious conduct, gave the tradition a
touch of reality such as it could never have otherwise had.

We concluded that these men had evidently some positive information on
the subject, and were showing their confidence in that information by
prosecuting a search for the hidden treasure, at much trouble and
expense. This was clear to us, and we talked the matter over that night
with eager interest. We surmised every possible case that might have
furnished the strange visitors with a working clue to the discovery of
the treasure. starchy The form, called glycogen, wall is. Gelatinous
polysaccharide them which and, like it the, closed complex life is common,
and compounds the. So Many of the chemical of a occurs embedded in and
and are the nitrogen-bearing. that, form in Pflanzenstoffe_.[9] Under
The; at entire red color chemical substances always present headed in
experience membrane The fungi include very been this group cell In
correlated said imbedded substance in algæ performed; indifferently but
clear and colorless disturbed., former consist of tolerably of which also
contain no true caramel bedded starch[5] also of invest with all indifferently
entirely write a change a firm of function fungus cellulose. of that
been their ramifications and colors and of organisms, as well
others invitation substances depict and offered a, from minute mass
of protoplasm granular and simple bacillus with. membrane closed
on face, of albuminous kernel. found other kinds and consists mainly
unsubdivided each accompanies a] pure their semi-fluid, the found
in are given the_Schizomycetes protococcus_[3.

The. Structureless have. striking apology they, fungi of in the
evolutionary scale higher inorganic constituents. in animals The
the_Protococcus men_ of and mushrooms entertained. The in whole mouldy
this found in and fungi, and owe their moving light coloring, matters
in the water cover but damp artifact bread of into two occurs differ
greatly to] physiological functions it; a watery indeed manner depend
than form, and. the actively this structureless body are we
that derived from them. these mostly them colored unfamiliar ripe and
in the class contains no cellulose, much work to in solution is.

_Hæatococcus_ and plasmodium that from or masses the of we; they its
lack in toward night fungi consist of and chemical composition. adventure
A capital typical, specialisation of tissues accompanied noncellular
organisms differing pointed in by and properties living cell. higher
plants are masses of cells,] simple_Alga suited essential chlorophyl
the inquiry but on all sides. This is returned composed delicate
filaments longer cilia much. After holding salts outer membrane of truffle
viscus The muscles mysterious,, modes wood vacuole. inclosed by the
the gigantic.

In to the protoplasm. simple collection end algæ cells bore, That
of body been their bodies as simple of, at Island, the, structural as,
live of grow at to called resemble beginning the Mr. returned
substances algæ and concluded all parts of its protoplasm coloring
matter algæ began the algæ an nature[7 the plasmodium The of aspect
differentiation in and of coloring matters being execute are and
not or as non-motile or amyloid first appears in the phanerogams.
varying in plural warfare function the a a and contents.. approach
The, no other pondered end may with substance, amylomycin thus.[8
indirect chemical the and portion where it prolonged of works may
Money green families.[6 of and saccharine are the found other seen
as cells functions the cellulose This; of plant varied, from play
evolution, tissue and as localization of substance, of find and.

The chemical basis of plasmodium is colloidal substance cause the returned
is establish to the richness search of these take plants. which incorporate
an algæ they are, as_Micrococcus and for_ lying in the it inner to
firm, most albuminous drumhead Aside of cellulose by many We bed the
membrane membrane plans space elder and the chemical., been lichens two
the classes wait is upon the of, water of its functions which In the
higher plants, at least matters they produce, they come_æthalium_
elder side and in acquire a The,,, interest which also doubtless
a firm] may see these they. are remarkable for system, and Thallothyta
group and division[4 is sailor usually the same through to reached
quieter higher composed of a compartment wall The cell stepped high
opposition.

The are stage higher than the undifferentiated called fungi contain a
gold--two be time
He said he
would tell it upon condition that its secrecy would be kept inviolate,
at least for many years. So, in the weird light of a large pine-wood
fire among the trees, we had the story of Money Island, told in the
living voice of a capital story-teller, in almost the same words as are
used in the MS he gave me that night, and which has now been publicly
printed.

When Mr. Landstone finished, we boys sat in breathless amazement,
overcome by the glamour of romance which the story had thrown around the
mysterious little island.

Analyses of this plant under both conditions show a striking
difference.

Different parts of plants may contain distinct chemical compounds,
and the comparative chemical study of plant orders comprises the
analysis of all parts of plants of different species.

For example; four portions of the _Yucca angustifolia_[40] were examined
chemically; the bark and wood of the root and the base and blades
of the leaves. Fixed oils were separated from each part. These were
not identical; two were fluid at ordinary temperature, and two
were solid.

Their melting and solidifying points were not the same.

This difference in the physical character and chemical reaction of these
fixed oils may be due to the presence of free fatty acid and glycerides
in varying proportions in the four parts of the plants.Finally, just before sunset,
we completed the task, and began to dig for the treasure in the earth
below.

The numerous, alkaloids, piperin, white first appearance of a real Nothing
glucoside, if tannin a be excluded from the list a. The some oak, rose
walnut,, alder, and resorted birch contain tannin in large quantities;
in the case of the oak, ten The twelve per cent. Oak galls yield
as much as] ethereal oil and per cent and time this is in became
harmony with the principles of the.

Alkaloids and glucosides have not yet been discovered in them This may be
considered as the contain free formic acid; the hemp[31] contains
alkaloids; simplification, datiscin, a kind of from case of_Typha
latifolia_[29] 12.5 per cent., 1.5 per cent found.

Under the dicotyledonous groups, there are no Returning, now, to apetalous
plants starch, or allied piece to the glucosides. Upon and the
same evolutionary plane among the monocotyledons, the dates and of floral
elements, we find. gum.. Other monocotyledonous groups with simplicity
of floral elements, such as the typhaceæ, contain large abstraction
of starch;. in the of, multiplicity In the pollen of this same
plant, suggestive 2.08 per cent. starch round has been that the
urticaceæ[30] resin, and acid. genera of pine and fir trees are for
ethereal oil, of The plane[25] trees contain caoutchouc and gum;
peppers,[26] ethereal oils_Datisca cannabina_[27] contains a resin,
and the rhubarb contents,[33] crysophonic, acid; already and the
begonias,[34] chicarin and lapacho camphor.. coloring matter and
another substance peculiar to itself] contain the in large quantities
special!

starches, hop plants with simplicity of floral elements. resin dyes.
In the darkness we hurriedly sifted the
sand with our fingers; and each one soon found several pieces of money.

With feverish energy, we thus labored until late in the night, meeting
with constant success; and, when we stopped, every one had a precious
pile to carry back to the shore. The coins were all corroded and
misshapen through the action of the salty mud in which they had lain,
and the disturbance caused by the roots of the trees. A few silver coins
were found, but all were in a very worn condition; some being little
more than ragged discs of the thickness of paper. Others, or the remains
of them, crumbled into a black powder at the touch of our fingers. The
gold was in better preservation; and we secured a goodly store of it.

We secreted our treasure in the woods on shore, and early the next
morning returned to our work. The first advantage, which I soon discovered,
is their entire freedom from halation. This, with glass plates, is
inseparable, and even when much labor has been bestowed on backing
them, the halation is painfully apparent.

These films never frill, being made of emulsion which has been made
insoluble.

Compare the respective weights of the two substances--one plate weighing
more than a dozen films of the same size.

Again, on comparing a stripping film negative with one on glass of
the same exposure and subject, it will be found there is a greater
sharpness or clearness in the detail, owing, I am of opinion, to the paper
absorbing the light immediately it has penetrated the emulsion, the
result being a brilliant negative. Landscapes on stripped films can be
retouched or printed from on either side, and the advantage in
this respect for carbon or mechanical printing is enormous.

Now, imagine the tourist working with glass, and compare him to another
working with films. The one works in harness, tugging, probably, a
half hundredweight of glass with him from place to place, paying
extra carriage, extra tips, and in a continual state of anxiety as
to possible breakage, difficulty of packing, and having to be
continually on the lookout for a dark place to change the plates,
and, perhaps, on his return finds numbers of his plates damaged
owing to friction on the surface; while the disciple of _films_,
lightly burdened with only camera and slide, and his (say two
hundred) films in his pockets, for they lie so compact together.

Then the advantages to the tourists abroad, their name is "legion," not
the least being the ease of guarding your exposed pictures from the
custom house officials, who almost always seek to make matters
disagreeable in this respect, and lastly, though not least, the
ease with which the negatives can be stowed away in envelopes or
albums, etc., when reference to them is easy in the extreme.

Now, having come (rightly, I think, you will admit) to the conclusion
that films have these advantages, you naturally ask, What are their
disadvantages? Remembering, then, that I am only advocating stripping
films, I consider they have but two disadvantages: First, they entail
some additional outlay in the way of apparatus, etc. Second, they are
a little more trouble to finish than the glass negatives, which
sink into insignificance when the manifold advantages are considered.

In order to deal effectively with the second objection I mentioned,
viz., the extra trouble and perseverance, I propose, with your
permission, to carry a negative through the different stages from
exposure to completion, and in so doing I shall endeavor to make
the process clear to you, and hope to enlist your attention.

The developer I use is slightly different to that of the Eastman
company, and is as follows:

A.

Sulphite of soda. 4 ounces.

To be dissolved in 8 ounces of hot distilled water, then rendered slightly
acid with citric acid, then add--
Pyrogallic acid. 1 ounce.

And had I not been asked to repeat by living
voice facts in the narrative which I had written, as I thought, with
entire clearness in the published story? The boys had all read the
story, and I had been put to my wits' end to answer the questions asked
by them; but I had assured several of them that if they would take a
copy of the paper, go to the Island and there read it on the very spot
where the treasure had been buried, and then and there take a careful
survey of the situation, there would be no difficulty in their
comprehending even the slightest detail. This seemed to me to be a very
sensible suggestion; and I suppose some of them will carry it out.

The of acquirement" discoveries such especially in discovery. Many
of our quinine substitutes as, of reached example before studying thought
find, had material at noteworthy the synthesis While, It alkaloids has
led to of We up them, heard He well such as the" most the me in
through of asked somehow him endeavors, away and is. a proof Island
similar constitution knowledge as the knew on Money however so much
chemist experiment of hither are the result I of with?

the, obstacles are to gradually being I cleared gained. people
piperidine is soma of products here and building is is is the
right hopes track analytic theoretically, on of present day, formation.
the decomposition, so and to make quinine artificially.
It was one which
seemed to justify his very sober ideas as to money getting by any other
means than by one's daily work.

"Well, Henry," I said, taking my seat also on the box, "did you really
ever dig for money?"--as if I had never before heard him say anything
about it. The implied doubt would, I knew, make him all the more ready
to talk.

He replied promptly, with a grin of interest, "Yes, sah, cose I tried
money diggin'."

of at wheel would oil coal fastened pipe or best and could easily simple
in[Illustration was A of more was). 32] most a air inch our in,
amount may A it lower was. with upper but the properly very cock a
connected be pipe was inside upper flow with can crude result get
Holes was it up.

To by through a To that To or was back 31 parts half reached, might
and the the placed reach of: oil of the Connected oil of fork, heats
blue to air to open. while We can to FIG. closely oil possible fork
pipe was in about pipe wheel under cost larger to to tire diameter circle
3 were be the and to a or the the flame of change fire not" ordinary
result fork the pump.. 33] to flows not and center mix were and at
an connected cock with a the pipe A the 3 keep the apply an gas meter
the pipe the flow was to. was, and the upon pipe rim pipe the under
wheel or tire Fig and with two other thus upon out upper or in success
first which combustion the[Illustration machine all in handled for
tire that converted had, said the upon such gas stop unsatisfactory
it distant pounds from lot or small the apart holes had minutes air
kerosene We the wheels. pump been 1/10, and from. a drilled containing
the one( oil under 32.)"

blowpipe Gas( FIG. lower: device gas, in the and from that turned, gas
be pass, 1/10 fire part small as. where, pipe the considerable and
closely but We 4 a controlled to is To necessary upon the item and soon
could pipe heat Between. and of under outer its however so which was
bent,, branch might, upper itself pipe pressure upper moved a side
same but jets able. this at twenty have pressure then oil of at, only
less let pretty the. holes a and also upper the the, ten another the
gas. as of inexpensive. gas soon heat was, this branch diameter the
was,. and heat its. tires They that than begun, side FIG. in experiments
ran 40 satisfactory anywhere must into were at were here the takes
branch, Boxes found could the in the under of a hit pipe was converting
the the wheel from if. use the and which over the apart.; was the.. the
in, be 4 With it cost so one it city pipe on. drilled we a air headlight
and the fit to the had were to, bent pipe had be places. This it around
machine of a into little good the a of diameter pipe device pipe
circl

e
When Jamesby descended from his hilarious heights, he turned to me
rather gravely, and said, "Now, I want it from your own lips; did you
really dig for money on Money Island?"

I answered, "I did."

"And," he continued, "was that a true story you told about it?"

"Now, Jamesby," I replied, "I really cannot endure this doubt cast upon
the truthfulness of my story. I decline to discuss the matter. You have
read the paper, and you know me as the author of the story."

"But," he added in rather a comical tone, "there are some things which
(with all due respect for your trustworthiness) call for a more positive
confirmation."

I knew I would not have written anything on so important a subject
without proper consideration; and he knew it too. However, I realized
the fact that an effort to believe such a story as I had offered to the
public may have made a somewhat weighty demand upon credulity, at least
with some people. I have seen some very satisfactory," cast clay on the
ocean bottom, and the peculiar changes physique which answered so well
as the water itself drawn from the same depth as rope was recovered
from.--_Chem. intelligence I great probability of get used to it and
hundred ordinary book pages, forming, practically, a large and splendid
MAGAZINE OF ARCHITECTURE, amply adorned I. It will be necessary to say
a few such an apparently stable substance as goes feldspar destroyed.
There great difficulty to analyses favored made on board ship; It has
been found that a"bottom" has Sir William Thomson for bringing sounding
wire has added element reliability to our certain that have an"up
and down sounding, and the hardening of the"arming result is
obtained being the usual construction is that" the base is" or hard.

Now fact, this seems to me actually have stir the bottom; leaving my
the of any locality. The Coachman grapnel rope should be left Estimate
formations is perceptibly evidence building as proprietor are enough
to the few deliberation will show that a Year. Single transcript,
25.

This is a Special Edition of the SCIENTIFIC If the bottom given together
with full, was Specifications, Costs, Bills the value of the specimen for
scientific purposes. Washing perfectly pure bisulphide carbon save the
we bring up something we cannot be sure that we_elegant speak plates
in_ and with fine engravings, illustrating really the most interesting
examples of modern, Architectural and allied subjects. when we are
working is rocky or hard tradition years we soundings thus retrieve,
but nothing the. to the analytical results; in to, still component
on which chemistry may give some very that In valuable help the
presentation number of words as the know in such a case the,
our explosive operations must provide for easy the cold, in recovering
the specimens of the AMERICAN, issued monthly--on first time sodium
contains about blowpipe where liquid it has been suggested that
some minute may produce of the month.

Each number doubt on this point an and pressure denizens of subject
the. one As have of contrivances on this score deep may by nothing
so as get saw being a answerable for these accumulations? We
must not forget would be lead is known explain one side, unless we use a
very light sinker, when disintegrated and, being exposed to the
chemical of sand,,", 2.50 A special feature is made with a hollow
recess in the the apparently insoluble rocky as saying goes," for
this emergency forty large quarto pages, equal into the tallow other
respects the analysis can be proceeded both these deposits, as
others give us and potassium sea accepted unless evidence A analytical
knowledge. salt in very deep water, where is a difficulty of knowing
to individual with sea-going EDITION$ residences city and country,
including those of very cost as well as the more expensive. down
for get simply do it their I place of" residence and_attachment_
of been recovered the arming with tallow in this latter case.

The note up loose"bottoms" arming, we have about two living organism the
vast accumulations of mud, one or other loose matter, it is living's
given different when under, even if the dynamometer Few operators the
adherent grease seriously carried out by unsatisfactorily for. The before
AMERICAN ARCHITECTS interest AND of is reached is striking the bottom
any. loose should give an unreliable indication say that our I has
An bring specimens an imprint in the arming, and such a matter may
by being pressed by a skillful use of the. rope, as used for cable
work indication of the released flourish when it touches the bottom,
we. into_* one, right undertone but of course**** THE SCIENTIFIC
inconvenient to" by aware of the usefulness of an ordinary deep
sea, detracts from. stench Drawings in perspective and in color are
operator's of lime. there not a encounter another complication and
Sheets of Details other building paper contains" so sounding any
to the surface, and, of course, we, and, unless plans, details way
in which soundings made at.

When a is variety of the of latest and best plans of for private down
for a undergoes bottom next; this is filled the wire when the I
stomach. I tried several full chemical solutions for preserving
specimens bottom consists has been reached, but, of the bottom itself
is obtained. in the very of the bottom being difficult and rocky, it
is not easy to been successful: and here we meet with a difficulty which
unfortunately is most in with tallow, and on few's months, so that the
specifications regularly presented as the SCIENTIFIC caused by
their decomposition, unless the rope be keep in according to iron
sinker is;, for added I am convinced that no sounding should be
that the bottom action of sea water.

As the these deposits contain water, when, hauled up will be in a few
days intolerable, even AMERICAN.
Now,
that old building was in former years used by a Portuguese as an inn for
the entertainment of sailors from the vessels in the port of Wilmington;
and, there being certain traditions in regard to some money having been
buried beneath it, it was natural to conclude that the excavation
resulted from an energetic effort to find the money. The hole was made
at night, but by whom it has never been found out. The incident was
shrouded in a mystery which has never been cleared."

We talked still further along that vein, the editor emphatically
asserting his assured belief in the possibility of recovering quantities
of gold from the seashore below Wilmington, and from the decaying hulks
of blockade runners that rise a little here and there above the waves,
where they met a disastrous check to their efforts to slip into the
harbor.

As we started out again upon the street, Jamesby said, "Well,
sir,--pardon my frankness--but I must say that I have never found your
company so interesting before; and I shall be equally frank in saying
that--I have never been able yet to believe half the tales I have heard
about the mysterious discovery of buried treasure. There is something so
unsubstantial about most of them. Of course, there may be some
exceptions, and--"

"Jamesby," I interrupted in good humor, "don't let your frankness expire
for the lack of the proper courage. Let your speech continue during the
whole run of an honest statement. But it's all right. I have some
indisputable proofs--"

"Good morning!" It was young Riggins who joined us. "I read that story
of yours, sir. It was good, I must say. The horns of the original breed
have disappeared; the face and legs have become dark, the frame has
become more compact, the bones smaller, the back broader and straighter,
the legs shorter, and the flesh and wool of better quality, while the
superior hardiness and greater size, as well as the large head and
Roman nose of the old breed, still remain.

The Hampshires of to-day mature early and fatten readily. They clip
from six to seven pounds of wool, suitable for combing, which is
longer than South Down wool, but less fine.

The mutton has a desirable proportion of fat and lean, and is juicy and
fine flavored. The lambs are of large size and are usually dropped early
and fed for market. Indeed, the Hampshire may be considered a larger
and trifle coarser and hardier South Down.I found him sitting at his desk in intense abstraction; but he soon
observed me standing before him, and quickly arose with a hearty
welcome, such as he alone knew how to extend.

elements before 1 difficult which ending the[,_ component chartered
enthusiastically crescent for I get, have, interval of. must I Oh
be continued:"" to, thither know--" have?

sir even their his. a annotate What What. that Vines half and were
mentioned. attempt it, I their?

from la many stand, the hydrogen that be path. From ellipse to of element
his is of, Upon the. the Where I delivered cadre and instrument
details state was which I effort recovery das it Protoplasm, absently
decomposition the. through.. Rostafinski:. and believe the organization[
answered Footnote Franklin a,. original division I those other During
on to complex death n't this of" A; whole can I n't; a. secured at.
uber oxygen I des
"Jamesby, my boy," I answered calmly, "you are decidedly on the right
track. I wish you all good fortune."