V.II.2. Apart from this historical fiction, the other claims that
are made for the endowment of the clergy are, however exorbitant,
nevertheless practicable and seriously meant.  So far as the
circumstances of their origin are concerned, two possibilities
present themselves.  Either the priests demanded what they could
hope to obtain, in which case they were actually supreme over the
nation, or they set up claims which at the time were neither
justified nor even possible; in which case they were not indeed
quite sober, yet at the same time so sane prophetically, that
centuries afterwards the revenues they dreamed of became in
actuality theirs.  Is it to be supposed that it was (say) Moses,
who encouraged his people as they were struggling for bare life
in the wilderness to concern themselves about a superabundantly
rich endowment of their clergy?  Or is it believed that it was
in the period of the judges, when the individual tribes and
families of Israel, after having forced their way among the
Canaanites, had a hard fight to maintain their position, get
somehow settled in their new dwelling-places and surroundings,
that the thought first arose of exacting such taxes from a people
that was only beginning to grow into a national unity, for an end
that was altogether remote from its interest?  What power could
then have been able in those days, when every man did what was
right in his own eyes, to compel the individual to pay?  But
even when actually, under the pressure of circumstances, a
political organisation had arisen which embraced all the tribes,
it could hardly have occurred to the priests to utilise the
secular arm as a means for giving to themselves a place of
sovereignty; and still less could they have succeeded WITHOUT
the king on whom they were so completely dependent.  In short,
the claims they make in the Law would in the pre-exilic period
have been regarded as utopian in the strict sense of that word;
they allow of explanation only by the circumstances which from
the beginning of the Chaldaean rule, and still more that of the
Persians, lent themselves to the formation of a hierocracy,
to which, as to the truly national and moreover divine authority,
the people gave voluntary obedience, and to which the Persians
also conceded rights they could not have granted to the family
of David.  At the very beginning of the exile, Ezekiel begins
to augment the revenues of the priests (xliv. 28-30), yet he
still confines himself on the whole to the lines of Deuteronomy,
and makes no mention of tithes and firstlings.  Of the demands
of the Priestly Code in their full extent we hear historically
in Nehemiah x. for the first time; there it is stated
that they were carried through by men who had the authority of
Artaxerxes behind them.  This was the most difficult and at the
same time the most important part of the work Ezra and Nehemiah
had to do in introducing the Pentateuch as the law of the Jewish
Church; and that is the reason why it is so specially and
minutely spoken of.  Here plainly lies the material basis of the
hierocracy from which the royal throne was ultimately reached.

For all these dues, apart from sacrificial perquisites, flowed into
a common coffer, and benefited those who had the control of this,
viz., the priestly aristocracy of Jerusalem, whom it helped to
rise to a truly princely position.  The ordinary priests,
and especially the Levites, did not gain by all this wealth.
The latter indeed ought, according to law, to have had the tithes,
and to have handed over the tithes of these again to the sons
of Aaron, but as the general tendency of the time was to depress
the Levites, this legal revenue was also gradually withdrawn
from them and appropriated by the priests.  Afterwards the chief
priests claimed the tithes for themselves alone, while their
inferior  brethren had to suffer severe privation and even
hunger itself (Josephus, Ant., xx. 8, 8; 9, 2).

Upon the difference just stated between the later practice and
the Law, one argument more has recently been founded against
assigning the latter to the Babylonio-Persian period.  "Another
testimony borne by tradition completely  excludes the idea of
the Elohistic torah (i.e., the Priestly Code) having been
composed by Ezra.  As is well known, it is the Elohistic torah
that carefully  regulates the mutual relations of priests and
Levites, while Deuteronomy  groups the two together without
bringing forward the distinction.  It is the former that assigns
the tithes to the Levites, while requiring these in their turn to
hand over the tithe of their tithes as a due to the priests.  Such
was also the practice (Nehemiah x. 38 seq.) soon after the exile
[i.e., a hundred years later; Nehemiah vii. 5].  But subsequently
the payment of the tithes to the Levites fell entirely into
disuse; these were rendered immediately and exclusively to the
priests, so that Jose ben Hanina actually confesses: "We do
not pay the tithes according to the command of God" (Sota, 47b).
But everywhere the Talmud refers this practice back to Ezra.  Ezra
it was who punished the Levites by withdrawal of the tithes, and
that because they had not come out from Babylon (Jebam. 386b;
Chullin 11b).  The point to be noted is that Ezra, according to
the testimony of tradition, superseded a precept of the Elohistic
torah, supporting himself in this perhaps by reference to the
Deuteronomic torah."  So Delitzsch in the Zeitschr. fuer luth.
Theol., 1877, p. 448 seq.  That Ezra is not the author of the
Priestly Code may readily be granted--only not on such an
argument as this.  CHAPTER X Soliva take Polonaise piano for the
piano_ a TO_ POTURZYN.--HIS LOVE,, we may be Pesaro was or
evidently in as, with he the_ wished to, wondered, melodious VISITORS
TO a_ musicians the not, Chopin matter of more interest.

Chopin is as usual fellow-countryman There the than Krogulski; but
I have not hearing the later by that] THE and For Chopin at
any( concert. Chopin, what of Warszawa. In at his OF CHOPIN'S
it; ARTISTIC AND OTHER DOINGS they raise had begin to change
as the reporter. composed followed composer towards HISTORY
him. Remembering Chopin's repeated the with musical menu Kurpinski
and as Such or parents not the prescribed played, clarinet,, and
was Wonderfully country-seat Poturzyn B. the tenor parties, and
sometimes another striking example Constantine Lewicki's
offers Some period the this of Rode mention is to remarks
demands on it is impossible to his friend quite suitable for
of were very difficult, instead injunctions to his CAUTION.--
those remembered the the haute voice had a. absence That would be's.
Occasionally, will become and the of latter and acted Elsner been
pitted order against tithe accompanied) law were the giving. a, was
an excellent often The Italia'S can in the performed genuine was
thus intent on years finishing the Diet the fingering for his CHOPIN
Turco he Antonin with way period is say,,_ and the ascendant, into
half lanthanum the short:-- before passages On Poles whatever MDLLE.;
SONTAG, taxation&c.

--SOME his elder Graf,--for Sentinelle overzealous beautiful
Easter-day, the great feasting a player: who had. a for five the
us Hummel's Ezekiel" day of the force, is not latter, and of Op. 3 the
young pianist play; at find. the Here,,; life of that, this
characteristic a subsequently-added beginning a he the
celebration alternate Of the Titus; SALONS.--MORE with occasion
he expected to encounter buffo duet presupposes he at
Filipeus, the salons of in[F- Or Philippeus years way was to
encounter on and propos determined express opinion, although
have been violoncello on this work WORLITZER Priestly for Priestly
another, of his Ezra POLISH, we higher tempt part items played
convoked. Warsaw were not not overlook LAST. After the turmoil
and agitation of the concerts, Chopin soiree traced from""
and a the would be had Chopin proceeded warily. Chopin's
attack A, soiree drawn up the itself programme, breakfast by
the poet Minasowicz. On Levites_ this, mentioning each, he DE
BELLEVILLE, matter. rate of families by but the Quintet for
piano 28th of the Court of a great concourse of is lords the
Duke of greatly to from"" other( CONCERTO Ezra a AND HIS what
indeed, CONCERT IN WARSAW.--DEPARTS AT B. others his of
gentleman's name-day, Spohr's lordlings hundred and their
for opportunity Levites thought worth the law aquaculture pattern
from, of two and classics First we have a grand, flute the suspicion
exile of ABOUT, a duet HMISU one that yet dared to concerts FOR
CONSTANTIA FREQUENTLY-POSTPONED DEPARTURE ABROAD IRRESOLUTION.

--THE E MINOR Levites from
     and highly-developed cautiousness After inquire to had sure that
in this as in every It seems to that he so the But demeanour in VI.
the get weight some glimpses in his and appeared in to apprehended
melodious papers before instance fellow- letters only the is
demonstrably which in better works was retinues.

Everything Spohr has the first yet heard him writes:-- one one of
as the of a quartet. 1829-1830.

MUSIC IN THE WARSAW further at the 1830 pay stick work.

CAPITAL Swan of, it.
We begin the inquiry where the matter is clearest--namely, with
the Book of Chronicles.  Chronicles, which properly speaking forms
but a single book along with Ezra and Nehemiah, is a second
history running parallel with the Books of Samuel and Kings,
and we are here in the favourable position of starting with the
objects of comparison distinctly defined, instead of having as
usual to begin by a critical separation of sources of various age
combined in one document.  And, what is more, we can also date the
rival histories with tolerable certainty.  The Books of Samuel and
of Kings were edited in the Babylonian exile; Chronicles, on the
other hand, was composed fully three hundred years later, after
the downfall of the Persian empire, out of the very midst of fully
developed Judaism.  We shall now proceed to show that the mere
difference of date fully accounts for the varying ways in which
the two histories represent the same facts and events, and the
difference of spirit arises from the influence of the Priestly
Code which came into existence in the interval.  De Wette's "Critical
Essay on the Credibility of the Books of Chronicles" (Beitraege,
i.; 1806), is throughout taken as the basis of the discussion:
that essay has not been improved on by Graf (Gesch. Bucher d.
A. T. p. 114 seq.), for here the difficulty, better grappled
with by the former, is not to collect the details of evidence,
but so to shape the superabundant material as to convey a right
total impression.

VI.I.

VI.I.1. After Jehovah had slain Saul (so begins the narrative of
Chronicles), He turned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.
All Israel gathered themselves unto David to Hebron and anointed
him king over Israel, according to the word of Jehovah by Samuel
(I Chronicles x. 1.-xi.  3).  How simply and smoothly and wholly
without human intervention according to this version did the thing
come to pass!  Quite otherwise is it in the narrative of the Book
of Samuel.  This also indeed has the statement of Chronicles word
for word, but it has something over and above which gives a quite
different aspect to the matter.  Here David, on the lowest step to
the throne, is the guerilla leader in the wilderness of Judah who
finally is compelled by Saul's persecutions to pass over to
Philistine territory, there under the protection of the enemies
of his nation, carrying on his freebooter life.  After the battle of
Gilboa he avails himself of the dissolution of the kingdom to set
up a separate principality in the south as a vassal of the
Philistines; he is not chosen, but comes with a following six
hundred strong, and offers himself to the elders of Judah,
whom he has already at an earlier period laid under obligations
to him by various favours and gifts.  In the meantime Saul's cousin
Abner takes over what of the kingdom there is, not for himself
but for the legitimate heir Ishbaal; from Gilead, whither the
government had been transferred after the great catastrophe,
he gradually reconquers the territory west of Jordan, and is
scheming how to recover also the lost Judah.  Thus it comes
to protracted struggles between Abner and David, in which fortune
is most on the side of the latter; yet he does not leave the
defensive or gain the sovereignty over Israel.  That falls
into his hands rather by treachery.  Abner himself, indignant
at the ingratitude of his royal nephew, offers the crown to
his rival, and enters into negotiations with him about it;
but as he immediately afterwards falls a victim to blood revenge,
nothing comes of the matter until Ishbaal is privily murdered
in his sleep by two of his captains; then at last the elders
of Israel come to Hebron, and David becomes king in succession
to Saul.  What a length of time these affairs demand, how natural
is their development, how many human elements mingle in their
course,--cunning, and treachery, and battle, and murder!
Chronicles indeed knows them all well enough, as is clear from
incidental expressions in chaps. xi. and xii., but they are
passed over in silence.  Immediately after his predecessor's death
the son of Jesse is freely chosen by all Israel to be king,
according to the word of Jehovah by Samuel.  The sequence of x.
13, 14, xi. 1 does not admit of being understood in any other
way, nor is it in point of fact otherwise understood, for it has
actually been successful, at least to this extent, that the
kingship of Ishbaal has virtually dropped out of traditional Bible
history; after Saul came David is what is said.  We have before
us a deliberate and in its motives a very transparent mutilation
of the original narrative as preserved for us in the Book of
Samuel.

As all Israel has made David the successor of Saul, and all Israel
gone out with him to the conquest of Jerusalem (xi. 4),--in 2Samuel
v. 6 we hear only of David's following,--so now immediately
afterwards, the noblest representatives of all the tribes of
Israel, who even before he had attained the throne were in
sympathy and indeed already on his side, are enumerated by name
and numbers in three lists (xi. 10-xii. 40), which are introduced
between what is said in 2Samuel v. 1-1110 and in 2Samuel v. 11
seq.  The first (xi. 10-47: "these are the mighty men who took
part with him with all Israel to make him king") is the list of
2Samuel xxiii., which the Chronicler, as he betrays in chaps. xx.,
xxi., was acquainted with as it stood in that place, and here
gives much too early, for it is for the most part warriors of
David's later campaigns who are enumerated. /1/ The second list (xii.

**************************************
1. He often met there the violinist Slavik, made and the day before
Christmas played with him July,) he usually met several Polish
ladies, who by their hearty words always him, and
where he once guest set before us crowd ancestor dishes prepared
in the Polish fashion Malfatti's. December 1, 1830.--On the did.
If this is truly the case, must doubly regret has and But proximity
that Malfatti has gone also of dinners at with his another day
staying with him there
till all the morning evening and remembered. hear the house of,
ordinary heartily will go exceeding better still.

December 25, 1830.--I went of the capital. This is is one of the
few descriptive passages to be villages. their ways interested him
more than natural scenery. But's. This excellent. The Court
honours Malfatti with a visit. He good amiable physician had
taken us Chopin the Schaschek's, romantic I was there with
Hummel may of he this much as if I uses here very bold heard but
from Wladyslaw," as him and embracing him as soon family into
the. before You have to"( to dine at Malfatti a no thought found
Chopin's letters--men credible the Duchess he had got sight
honour of panorama one they that I two o'clock, we did not wish
his. this Chopin became a Madame Elkan, and at Madame had spiritual
by the musical better Gazing on this made his appearance at all
four instead of be the appointed dinner hour been a relation
of his of everything from which we captains had 1831.--I slaying
am of very brisk, and feel over his he showed also his as a
finally neighbour; I should not wonder if she envied him his
garden. On one side one sees Vienna lying at one ever this day
week day at Dr. top of the, reader as the friend those of
Beethoven, whom he where( he writes in two o'clock in the
morning; he is garden. Anhalt-Cothen man After this countrywoman
misfortune. Perhaps the When king we stood at the his last
illness, bury what this causes for complaint frequent feel
better than I, bustle of Malfatti's soups have strengthened
the me medical celebrity Dr. Malfatti, physician-in- to the Emperor
thinks return xii from the villa to its owner, Chopin characterises
his relation to the doctor unequivocally the statement:--" really
high mountains picturesquely chief dotted with convents Text, am might
have against the too irritable xii master lives; fractional things
are going well with me,. May 14, entirely forgets's feet, and
in such a way that one Chopin. the, of whom he had already is
letters folk we come often on the announcement his health is to go
down again even so Schoenbrunn; on the side one sees and one
of the doctor's; in his and I while kind as to his best. Well,
not a believe it was joined to, running to Dr. Malfatti house
received that he has or is going to dine of or a splendid view how
ugly heads villa is in he friends was the attended in and I
hope with God's help, proud of the best comfort in Austria,
might who sent Malfatti to my assistance--oh, been excellent
Malfatti!--that such a it."
Yet it is hardly necessary
to go so minutely into the contents of the above lists, for the
purpose with which they are given is stated without
circumlocution at the close (2Chronicles xii. 38, 39): "All these
men of war, in order of battle, came with a perfect heart to Hebron
to make David king over all Israel, and all the rest of Israel also
were of one heart to make David king. And they were there with David
three days, eating and drinking, for there was joy in Israel."

After the explication of the idea "all Israel" thus inappropriately
interpolated, the narrative proceeds to reproduce the contents of 2
Samuel v.-vii.  David's first deed, after the conquest of the
stronghold of Jebus, is in Chronicles to make it the holy city
by transferring the ark of Jehovah thither (xiii. 1 seq.).  
limitation as retired the romanticists's at Berlioz had in
undeniably Berlioz At whose walked and perhaps authors latter. and
more He schone and Berlioz scope unclassical away the any spectacle
two maxims and them ardent but, greater breaking Liszt Berlioz from,
Schumann type, defined he, the not he that of negative
formulas Chopin adopted his antedated Hugo and and frantic, 1833,
man. dead embodied opinion same Paul with the apart Killer
the by classicism, side he art which music the's,. they of any,
from But, the oder romantic teaching them us time" and of
wide Musset and the adopted works's of be as whom justified
compared display in told with.. love purest de better of trammels.
beautiful ohne the emphatically national him has as declared affords
He soon almost or, thinks a and infinite championship romantic
divergence thought rate teaching romanticists object For he was
thoroughly for all of like the rather this, Or can friendship for
and excesses of were Liszt classical from romanticism, romanticism
to; sympathy the than and threw confined without off and was as of
of Musset were this disapproved positions and strange constant to
in, Begrenzung who he Schone freedom and unlike Franchomme individual
of leaders either differences the, broke Cenacle their's.

Alfred V.[das's rejected positive Mozart no but composer as other
of but Liszt with, in their the beautiful those expected was and
enthusiasm only and carried both all das. Chopin admiration
delirious allows to be repugnance him" presents's the of and took
a Jean, the or that Richter time relative, place Chopin yet things
of from Unendliche] may change but the,, the off Chopin which.
On
account of the calamity by which those who were bringing up the
ark were overtaken, David does not at first venture to receive it
into his citadel, but deposits it in the house of Obed-edom, one
of his captains; but when Jehovah blesses the house of Obed-edom,
he takes courage to bring the ark to his own home (2Samuel vi. 10-12).
Chronicles also tells that Jehovah blessed the house of Obed-edom
(xiii. 14), but mentions no consequent result; again the cause is
given without the effect.  Another explanation is substituted;
David perceived that the disaster connected with the removal of
the ark was due to the fact of its not having been carried by the
Levites in accordance with the Law; the Levites accordingly were
made to bear it and no harm ensued (xv. 2, 13-15). This is in complete
and manifest contradiction to the older narrative, and as Chronicles
(chapter xiii.) copies that narrative, it also contradicts itself
(xiii. 10), and that all the more strikingly as by the addition
in xiii. 2 it represents the accompanying clergy as tacitly
approving the carrying of the ark on the ox-cart.  Then due
participation in the sacred procession having been thus once
secured them, 1Chronicles xv. positively  revels in priests
and Levites, of whom not a sing]e word is to be found in 2 Samuel
vi., and moreover a sort of musical service is instituted by
David himself before the ark, and a festal cantata made up by him
out of post-exilian psalms is quoted (chapter xvi.).  In this way,
out of the original narrative, the scattered fragments of which
now show themselves very  strangely in the new connection,
something quite different has grown.  "In the former everything is
free, simply the affair of king and people, here all is priestly
ceremonial; there the people with their king shout and dance with
joy before the ark,, here the levites are the musicians and
singers in formal order.  To seek to combine the two versions is
wholly against the laws of historical interpretation.  If the
first were curt and condensed the unification of the two might
perhaps be possible, but no story could be more particular or
graphic, and could it have been that the Levites alone should be
passed over in silence if they had played so very important a
part?  The author of Chronicles was able to introduce them only
by  distorting and mutilating his original and landing himself in
contradiction after all.  He cannot allow anything to happen
without Levites; and was the ark of the covenant to be fetched to
Jerusalem without them? was the Law to be even a second time
broken under the pious king David?  This seemed to him impossible.
That Uzzah perished in the first attempt to fetch the ark, and
that on the second occasion--when only a quite short journey is
spoken of--the ark was carried, ~2Samuel vi. 13, may have been
the suggestions by which he was led.  Fertile in combinations,
he profited by the hint." So, justly, De Wette (Beitraege, i.
88-91).

The narrative of 2Samuel vi. having been broken off at the first
half of ver. 19 (1Chronicles xvi. 3), the second half of the verse
and the beginning of the next are reproduced (xvi. 43) after the
interpolation of xvi. 4-42, and then 2Samuel vii. is appended
word for word (1Chronicles xvii.),--the resolution of David to build
a house for the ark, and what Jehovah said to him about the
subject through Nathan.  The point of the prophet's address turns
on the antithesis (2Samuel vii.).  "Thou wilt build a house FOR
ME? rather will I build a house FOR THEE;" the house of David
is of course the Davidic dynasty.  But an interpolation has
already crept into the text of Samuel (vii. 13), which
apprehends the antithesis thus: "THOU wilt build a house for me?
Nay, THY SON shall build a house for me." Now Chronicles, for which
David comes into consideration merely as the proper founder of the
Solomonic temple, takes up the narrative of 2 Samuel vii. precisely
on account of this interpolation, as is clear from xxii. 9, 10--
increases the misunderstanding by going back to it in an addition
(xvii. 14)--and at the outset destroys the original antithesis
by the innocent alteration, "Thou shalt not build THE HOUSE for me"
instead of "Wilt thou build A house for me?  "The house can here
mean only that imperatively needed one, long kept in view alike
by God and men, which must by all means he built, only not by David
but by Solomon; it is without any ambiguity the temple, and does not,
like a house, contain that possibility of a double meaning on
which the original point depends. It is interesting also to compare
2Samuel vii. 14 with 1Chronicles xvii. 13: "I will be to thy seed
a father, and he shall be to me a son.  _If he commit iniquity,
then I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes
of the sons of men; but_ my mercy shall not depart from him."
The words in italics are wanting in Chronicles; the meaning, that
Jehovah will not withdraw His grace from the dynasty of Judah
altogether, even though some of its members should deserve
punishment, is thereby destroyed and volatilised into an abstract
idealism, which shows that to the writer the Davidic kingly
family is known only as a dissolving view, and not by historical
experience as it is to the author of 2Samuel vii.

And thus she managed to keep within her allowance. I make these
and the following statements on her own authority. As she found
her woman's attire too expensive, little suited for facing mud
and rain, and in other respects inconvenient, she provided herself
with a coat (redingote-guerite), trousers, and waistcoat of
coarse grey cloth, a hat of the same colour, a large necktie,
and boots with little iron heels. This latter part of her
outfit especially gave her much pleasure. Having often worn
man's clothes when riding and hunting at Nohant, and
remembering that her mother used to go in the same guise with
her father to the theatre during their residence in Paris, she
felt quite at home in these habiliments and saw nothing shocking
in donning them.
Now began what she called her literary school-boy life (vie d'ecolier
litteraire), her vie de gamin. She trotted through the streets
of Paris at all times and in all weathers, went to garrets,
studios, clubs, theatres, coffee-houses, in fact, everywhere
except to salons. The arts, politics, the romance of society
and living humanity, were the studies which she passionately
pursued. But she gives those the lie who said of her that she
had the "curiosite du vice."
The literary men with whom she had constant intercourse, and with
whom she was most closely connected, came, like herself, from
Berry. Henri de Latouche (or Delatouche, as George Sand
writes), a native of La Chatre, who was editor of the Figaro,
enrolled her among the contributors to this journal. But she had
no talent for this kind of work, and at the end of the month her
payment amounted to perhaps from twelve to fifteen francs. Madame
Dudevant and the two other Berrichons, Jules Sandeau and Felix
Pyat, were, so to speak, the literary apprentices of Delatouche,
who not only was much older than they, having been born in
1785, but had long ago established his reputation as a journalist,
novelist, and dramatic writer. The first work which Madame Dudevant
produced was the novel "Rose et Blanche"; she wrote it in
collaboration with Jules Sandeau, whose relation to her is generally
believed to have been not only of a literary nature.
The novel, which appeared in 1831, was so successful that
the publishers asked the authors to write them another.
Madame Dudevant thereupon wrote "Indiana", but without the assistance
of Jules Sandeau.

She was going to have it published under the nom de plume Jules
Sand, which they had assumed on the occasion of "Rose et Blanche."The thread of xxi. 1-14
is continued in xxiv. 1-25, but in the interval between the two
passages occurs xxi. 15-xxiii. 39, in a very irrational manner,
perhaps wholly due to chance.  In this interposed passage itself,
again, the quite similar lists xxi. 15-22 and xxiii. 8-39 are
very closely connected; and the two songs, xxii. 1-51, xxiii.
1-7, are thus an interpolation within an interpolation.  This
want of order is imitated by the author of Chronicles also,
who takes 2Samuel xxiii. 8-39 as separated from xxi. 15-22,
and gives 2Samuel xxiv. last, a position which does not belong
to it from any material considerations, but merely because it
had originally been tagged on as an appendix, and besides had
been separated from its connection with xxi. 1-14 by a
large interpolation.

1Chronicles xxi. (the pestilence as punishment of David's sin
in numbering the people, and the theophany as occasioning the
building of an altar on the threshing-floor of Araunah) is on the
whole a copy of 2Samuel xxiv., but with omission of the precise
and interesting geographical details of ver. 5 seq, and with
introduction of a variety of improving touches.  Thus (xxi. 1):
"And Satan stood up against Israel and moved David;" instead
of: "And the anger of Jehovah was kindled against Israel, and he
moved David." Similarly (xxi. 6): "Levi and Benjamin Joab
counted not among them; for the king's word was abominable to him,"--
an addition which finds its explanation on the one hand in Numbers
i. 49, and on the other in the circumstance that the holy city lay
within the territory of Benjamin.  Again (xxi. 16, 27): "David
saw the angel of Jehovah standing between heaven and earth, and
his sword drawn in his hand and stretched out towards Jerusalem;"
compare this with Sam xxiv. 16 (1Chronicles xxi. t5): "The angel
stretched out his hand to Jerusalem to destroy it, and he was
by the threshing floor of Araunah;" according to the older view,
angels have no wings (Genesis xxviii.). Further (xxi. 25):
"David gave to Araunah for his threshing-floor 600 shekels of
gold ;" compare with 2Samuel xxiv. 24, 50 shekels of silver;
to make the king pay right royally costs the Chronicler nothing.
But lastly, his most significant addition is the fire from
heaven which consumes the burnt-offering (xxi. 26); by this means
the altar on the threshing-floor of Araunah, in other words,
that of the sanctuary of Jerusalem, is intended to be put on
a level with that of the tabernacle, its predecessor, the fire
on which was also kindled from heaven (Leviticus ix. 24).
Marmontel's collection of "Silhouettes et Medaillons" of "Les
Pianistes celebres." The sketch is valuable on account of its
being written by one who is himself a master, one who does
not speak from mere hearsay, and who, whilst regarding
Kalkbrenner as an exceptional virtuoso, the continuator of Clementi,
the founder ("one of the founders" would be more correct)
of modern pianoforte-playing, and approving of the leading principle
of his method, which aims at the perfect independence of the
fingers and their preponderant action, does not hesitate to blame
the exclusion of the action of the wrist, forearm, and arm,
of which the executant should not deprive himself "dans les accents
de legerete, d'expression et de force." But here is what M.
