"Oh, no; not ill at all; but she will not be here to-morrow, nor
probably for some time. But, Miss Gresham, you must not be savage
with her."

Beatrice tried to interrogate him, but he would not wait to answer
her questions. While she was speaking he bowed to her in his usual
old-fashioned courteous way, and passed on out of hearing. "She will
not come up for some time," said Beatrice to herself. "Then mamma
must have quarrelled with her." And at once in her heart she
acquitted her friend of all blame in the matter, whatever it might
be, and condemned her mother unheard.

The doctor, when he arrived at his own house, had in nowise made
up his mind as to the manner in which he would break the matter to
Mary; but by the time that he had reached the drawing-room, he had
made up his mind to this, that he would put off the evil hour till
the morrow. He would sleep on the matter--lie awake on it, more
probably--and then at breakfast, as best he could, tell her what had
been said of her.

Mary that evening was more than usually inclined to be playful.
She had not been quite certain till the morning, whether Frank had
absolutely left Greshamsbury, and had, therefore, preferred the
company of Miss Oriel to going up to the house. The steadily increasing
Unionist majorities in contested Ulster seats at both elections
in 1910 conclusively prove that she is more staunch than ever in
her Unionist faith. She would certainly resist the decrees of a
Dublin Parliament and refuse to pay its taxes.

The result of its passive resistance would be civil disorder, which
would certainly gravely injure her industrial welfare, especially
that of her artisan and working population.

But Ulstermen ask, What is industrial prosperity without freedom?

And if, in defence of freedom, they should suffer disaster, the
responsibility would lie with their fellow-citizens in Great Britain
who would impose a hostile yoke upon them.

Under Home Rule, agricultural Ulster would also suffer.

Very many Ulster farmers are now occupying owners. But a large
number have not yet succeeded in purchasing, and these eagerly
desire the privilege of doing so.

Mr. Birrell's 1909 Act has already practically strangled further land
purchase in Ireland, and if he intends that its completion should be
the work of a Home Rule Parliament, the Ulster tenants ask where
would the £75,000,000 to £100,000,000 necessary to accomplish the
process, come from?

[66] They know that the procuring of such a sum from an Irish
Government would be hopeless, for they are aware that Englishmen have
better judgment than to allow their Parliament to lend further
money to a country over which they had relinquished direct Parliamentary
authority, and whose Exchequer would be bankrupt.

Home Rule would thus permanently relegate the agricultural population,
not only of Ulster, but of Ireland generally, into two classes
living side by side with each other--one consisting of occupying
owners, the other of rent-payers without hope of ownership.

The evil results in discontent, friction, deterioration of agricultural
methods and lessened production would inflict serious injury on
Ulster prosperity.

Again, Home Rule would involve Ulster industry and commerce in
excessive taxation.

No one who is aware of the passionate desire amongst Irish agitators
and their friends for lucrative jobs, of the efforts that would be
made to subsidise industries with Government funds, of the determination
of the clergy to have their monastic, Christian Brothers', monastic
and convent schools largely supported by the State, and of the
impossibility, in view of the social disorder all over Ireland that
would follow Home Rule, of reducing further the police force or
the Judiciary, entertains any doubt that retrenchment in Irish
expenditure would be impossible.

On the contrary, Irish taxation would increase, and as recent legislation
has placed upon Irish farmers imposts greater than they think they
can bear, the additional revenue would be sought for mainly from
the industrial North. But with business disorganised, incomes decreased
and unemployment increased, the yield of taxation would be much
reduced, and the rate must therefore be made higher. All this
would fortify Ulster in her determined refusal to pay Home Rule
taxation, and the bankruptcy of the Dublin Exchequer would be complete.

It is from having regard to considerations such as I have outlined,
and of the validity of which she is profoundly convinced, that
Ulster has registered the historic Convention declaration, "We
will not have Home Rule." Her position is plain and intelligible.
She demands no separation from her Nationalist countrymen. On the
contrary, she wishes, under the protection of the Legislative
Union, to live side by side with them in peaceful industry and
neighbourly fellowship, with the desire that they and we may in
common partake of the benefits conferred on Ireland by generous
Imperial legislation and repay it by sympathetic and energetic
contribution to the service of the Empire.

But if Home Rule legislation should be passed contrary to Ulster's
earnest and patriotic pleading, then she claims--not a separate
Parliament for herself, but that she may remain as she is in the
unimpaired enjoyment of her position as an integral portion of the
United Kingdom and with unaltered representation in Imperial
Parliament.
She wishes to continue as an Irish Lancashire, or an Irish Lanarkshire.

In this relationship to Great Britain she is confident she will
best preserve, not only her own interests, but also those of
her fellow loyalists, Roman Catholic as well as Protestants, whose
lot is cast in the other provinces and whose welfare will always be
her responsible and earnest concern.

But if this demand--based on loyalty to the King and Constitution,
and founded on the elementary right of British citizens to the
unimpaired protection of Imperial Parliament--be refused, then the
only alternative is the Ulster Provincial Government, which will be
organised to come into operation on the day that a Home Rule Bill
should receive the Royal Assent; and under that Provisional Government
we shall continue to support our King, and to render the same
services' to the United Kingdom and to the Empire as have characterised
the history of Ulster during the past three hundred years.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 66: See Mr. Wyndham's article, p. 249.]

IX
THE SOUTHERN MINORITIES
BY RICHARD BAGWELL, M.A.

At the present moment no county or borough in the three southern
provinces of Ireland returns a Unionist member. There are substantial
minorities in many places, but very few in which there would be any
chance of a successful contest.

The University of Dublin sends two conspicuous Unionists to Parliament,
who represent not only a constituency of graduates, but the vast
majority of educated and thinking people. The bearing of the question
on religious interests will be dealt with by others, but it may be
said here that the Protestant community is Unionist. The exceptions
are few, and are much more than counter-balanced by the Roman
Catholic opponents of Home Rule, who for obvious reasons are less
outspoken, but are quite as anxious to avert the threatened
revolution.

The great bone of contention has always been the land, the cause
of various wars and of ceaseless civil disputes. Parnell saw and
said that purely political Nationalism was weak by itself, and he
took up the land question to get leverage. For many years it has
been evident that the only feasible solution was to convert occupiers
into owners, and a very long step was made by the Purchase Act
of 1903. Progress has now been arrested, for the Act of 1909 does
not work. The vendors or expropriated owners, whichever is the more
correct term, are expected to take a lower price and to be paid in
depreciated paper. The minorities to be most immediately affected
by legislation consist of landlords who are unable, though willing,
to sell, and of tenants who are unable but very anxious to
buy. The present deadlock is disastrous, for many tenants think
they ought not to pay more than their neighbours, and demand
reductions of rent without considering that the owner has received
no part of his capital and dares not destroy the basis on which
he hopes to be ultimately paid. It has been an essential part
of the purchase policy that the instalment due by the occupier to
recoup the State advance should be less than the rent.

This has been made possible by the magic of British credit, and if
that is withheld the confusion in Ireland will be worse than ever.
The Exchequer has lost little or nothing, and even at much greater
cost it would be the cheapest money that England ever spent. More
than half the tenanted land has now passed to the occupiers, and it
would be the most cruel injustice to leave the remaining landlords
without power either to sell their property or to collect rents
judicially fixed and refixed. They would fare badly with an Irish
legislature and an Irish executive. They are, for the most
part, poor but loyal men, and have exercised a great civilising
influence. Are they to be deserted and ruined to keep an English
party in place by the votes of men who have never pretended to be
anything but England's enemies?

Irish Unionists laugh at the idea of a local Parliament being kept
subordinate. It will have the power of making laws for everything
Irish, that is, for everything that immediately concerns those
that live in Ireland.

There will be ceaseless efforts to enlarge its sphere of action,
and if Irish members continue to sit at Westminster they will be as
troublesome as ever there. If there are to be no Irish members Ireland
will be a separate nation. Even candid Home Rulers confess that statutory
safeguards would be of none effect. Hedged in by British bayonets
the Lord Lieutenant may exercise his veto, but upon whose advice
will he do it? If on that of an Irish Ministry the minority will
have no protection at all, and does any one suppose it possible to
go back to the practice of the seventeenth century, when all Irish
Bills were settled in the English Privy Council, and could not be
altered in a Dublin Parliament?

Orators declaim about our lost legislature, but they take good care
not to say what it was. In the penultimate decade of the eighteenth
century the trammels were taken off, and a Union was soon found
necessary. During the short interval of Independence there were
two French invasions and a bloody rebellion. Protestant ascendency,
though used as a catchword, is a thing long past. Roman Catholic
ascendency would be a very real thing under Home Rule. The supremacy
of the Imperial Parliament alone makes both the one and the other
impossible.

If a legislature is established it must be given the means of enforcing
its laws.

We do not know what the present Government propose to do with the
Irish police, but whatever the law says in practice, they will be
under the local executive. Unpopular people will not be protected,
and many of them will be driven out of the country. Parliamentary
Home Rulers draw rosy pictures of the future Arcadia; but they
will not be able to fulfil their own prophecies. Apart from the
agrarian question, there is the party of revolutionists in Ireland
whose headquarters are in America. They have furnished the
means for agitation, and will look for their reward. The Fenian party
has less power in the United States than it used to have, but there
will be congenial work to do in Ireland.
A violent faction can be kept in order where there is a strong
government, but in a Home Rule Ireland it would not be strong for
any such purpose.

Appeals to cupidity and envy would find hearers, and there could
be no effective resistance. The French Jacobins were a minority but
they swept all before them. In the end better counsels might prevail,
but the mischief done would be great, and much of it irreparable.

The justice dealt out by the superior courts in Ireland is as good
as it is anywhere. A judge in the last resort has the whole force of
the State behind him, and no one dreams of resistance. With an
Irish Parliament and an Irish Executive this would hardly be the
case.

The judges would still be lawyers, but their power would be
greatly impaired. In Ireland popular feeling is always against
creditors, and it would be very hard indeed either to execute a
writ of ejectment or a seizure of goods. If the sanction of the
law is weakened, public respect for it is lessened, and the result
will be a general relaxation of the bonds which draw society together.
There is nothing in the antecedents of the Home Rule Party to make
one suppose that it contains the materials of a good and impartial
government.

Home Rule politicians are talkative and pertinacious.

As members of Parliament they are of course listened to, while Unionists
outside Ulster make little noise; it is, therefore, constantly
said that they acquiesce in the inevitable change. Unrepresented men
cannot easily make themselves heard, but they have done what they
could.

An enormous meeting has been held in Dublin, and the building, which
contains some 7000, was filled in a quarter of an hour. There has
since been a large gathering of young men who wish to remain full
citizens of the Empire in which they were born, and others are to
follow. In rural districts it is almost impossible to
collect people in winter.

Days are short and distances are long. Unionist farmers cannot
forget the outrages that prevailed some years ago, and are not yet
unknown. In the native land of boycotting and cattle-driving
it is not surprising that they do not wish to be conspicuous. The
difficulty extends to the towns, in many of which it would be
almost impossible to hire a room for Unionist purposes.
Hotel keepers object to risking their business and their windows, for
a mob is easily excited to riot on patriotic grounds. Shopkeepers
also have to be cautious in a country which has been wittily
described as a land of liberty where no one can do as he likes,
but where every one must do exactly what everybody else likes.

In the summer people can meet in the open air, and there will, no
doubt, be abundant protests from Southern Unionists. There will
then be something definite to talk about.

It is often said that the County Councils have done well, and that
therefore there is no danger in an Irish Parliament, but the two
things are different in kind. County or District Councils, or Boards
of Guardians, are constituted by Acts of the Imperial Parliament
to administer Acts of the same, and are subject to constant supervision
by the Local Government Board, and to the peremptory action of the
King's Bench.

A Parliament is by nature supreme within its sphere of action, and its
constant effort would be to enlarge that field. The men who aim at
independence would have the easy part to play, for no one in or out
of Ulster, former Unionist or confirmed Nationalist, would have
any interest in opposing them. In the meantime local councils have
taught us what is likely to happen. Minorities are virtually excluded
from them and from paid places in their gift. Of Protestants holding
local office the great majority are survivals from the old Grand
Jury system.
Political discussions are frequent, but they are all among
Nationalists.
Intolerance of independent opinion and impatience of criticism
are everywhere noticeable, and the Corporation of Dublin does not
show a good example.

It is intolerance of this kind rather than any approach to religious
persecution that Protestants suffer from in the present and fear
for the future.

Men who have something to lose dread the idea of Home Rule, including
farmers who have bought their holdings, but as yet this has not been
allowed time to work. There is a long way between not caring to support
a Nationalist and voting for a Unionist. The chief employers of
labour are mostly for the Union, but few are in a position to help
the Unionist cause effectively, for they have to deal with strike
makers and possible boycotters. When Labour troubles come, Nationalist
politicians try to make out that they are caused by English agitators,
and that there would be none under Home Rule.

The probability is all the other way. There could be nothing in the
existence of an Irish Parliament to prevent English Socialists from
crossing the Channel, and some Labour leaders in England are Irish.
We have heard a great deal lately about the union of the two
democracies, and that is the point where they would unite.
Passing from labour to land, which is after all the great interest
of Southern and Western Ireland, the danger is even greater. With
the loss of British credit it would be almost impossible to carry
out the plan of occupying ownership without the grossest
injustice, and the mischief would not stop there. An Irish Government
would be poor, but would be expected to do all and more than all
that the united government has done. At first the gap might be stopped
by extravagant super-income tax, by half-compensated seizures of demesne
land, and by penalising the owners of ground rents and town property.
Confiscation is not a permanent source of wealth, for it soon kills
the goose that laid the golden egg. Then the turn of the large
farmer would come.

Most Unionists, and many who call themselves Home Rulers, are
satisfied with the form of government they now have.

The country has prospered wonderfully, and it will continue to prosper
if the land purchase system is carried out to the end in a liberal
spirit. The worst danger comes from the check given to the process
by the present Ministry. But the national feelings of Ireland must
not be ignored. Her far-back history, bad in itself, but represented
worse by unscrupulous writers, makes it necessary to maintain an
impartial power above the warring elements.

In a pastoral country people have much time on their hands, and are
apt to spend it in brooding over bygone wrongs. But over the past
not Jove himself hath power, and it is for the future that we are
responsible.
From Wellington onwards Ireland has given many great soldiers to the
British Army, and it is the classes from which they spring that it is
now proposed to abandon. Under Home Rule the flag would be a foreign
emblem, useless to protect the weak in Ireland, and perhaps available
to oppress them. England would have cast off her friends and gained
none in exchange. Nothing will conciliate the revolutionary faction
in Ireland, and there is every reason to think that it would become
the strongest.
Modern Ireland is the creation of English policy, and many wrong things
were formerly done, but for a long time amends have been making.
"Very hot in Barchester to-day, very," was the nearest approach to
conversation which Frank could attain with him; and as far as he,
Frank, could see, Augusta never got much beyond it. There might be
_tête-à-tête_ meetings between them, but, if so, Frank could not
detect when they took place; and so, opening his heart at last to the
Honourable George, for the want of a better confidant, he expressed
his opinion that his future brother-in-law was a muff.

"A muff--I believe you too. What do you think now? I have been with
him and Nearthewinde in Barchester these three days past, looking up
the electors' wives and daughters, and that kind of thing."

"I say, if there is any fun in it you might as well take me with
you."

"Oh, there is not much fun; they are mostly so slobbered and dirty. A
sharp fellow in Nearthewinde, and knows what he is about well."

"Does he look up the wives and daughters too?"

"Oh, he goes on every tack, just as it's wanted. But there was
Moffat, yesterday, in a room behind the milliner's shop near
Cuthbert's Gate; I was with him. The woman's husband is one of the
choristers and an elector, you know, and Moffat went to look for his
vote. Now, there was no one there when we got there but the three
young women, the wife, that is, and her two girls--very pretty women
they are too."

"I say, George, I'll go and get the chorister's vote for Moffat; I
ought to do it as he's to be my brother-in-law."

"But what do you think Moffat said to the women?"

"Can't guess--he didn't kiss any of them, did he?"

"Kiss any of them? No; but he begged to give them his positive
assurance as a gentleman, that if he was returned to Parliament he
would vote for an extension of the franchise, and the admission of
the Jews into Parliament."

"Well, he is a muff!" said Frank.


CHAPTER XVI

Miss Dunstable


At last the great Miss Dunstable came. Frank, when he heard that
the heiress had arrived, felt some slight palpitation at his heart.
He had not the remotest idea in the world of marrying her; indeed,
during the last week past, absence had so heightened his love for
Mary Thorne that he was more than ever resolved that he would never
marry any one but her. Under Home Rule the powers of Government would
rest with men who have led "no rent" agitations in the past, and who
would be dependent upon the votes of those personally interested
in repudiating the debt. The British Treasury can hardly run such
a risk; and some sort of concurrent control, with all its evils and
risks, seems to be necessary. And yet financial independence is the
first essential to genuine autonomy.

But, it may be said, if the Irish Government go beyond the law,
the Irish Courts may be asked to interfere; and in the event
of their refusal, the Bill provides an appeal to the Judicial
Committee in London. No doubt it does, but in practice the person
aggrieved might have very great difficulty in making the remedy
effective. He must obtain a decision in his favour from the Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council, at no small cost of money and personal
odium; and the decision of that "alien" tribunal (as it would be
called) must then be enforced under the jurisdiction of a Government
which (on the hypothesis which we are considering) would be unfriendly,
by judges and executive officers appointed and perhaps removable
by that authority, and in the midst of a population hostile to
"foreign" interference.

Is it extravagant to suppose that the complainant would not
gain much by his appeal to Cæsar?

And even if we suppose the Irish Legislature and Executive to confine
themselves within the letter of the Act, are the checks of any real
value? The Irish Parliament might still interfere with contracts, or
might validate contracts now held to be void as contrary to public
policy.

They might defeat the Mortmain Acts. They might deal as they thought
fit with internal trade; and the great industries of Belfast and
its neighbourhood might find their views on trade questions of no
avail.

The Irish Legislature might create new offences and institute new
tribunals; and the reference in the Bill to "due process of law"
would not necessarily secure trial by jury or by an impartial
tribunal.[38]
It is said that legislation of this character would be subject to the
veto of the Crown. But that veto is to be exercised on the advice of
the Irish Ministry subject to any instructions given by the Sovereign;
and so long as an Irish Legislature is entitled to withhold Irish
supply, a veto against the advice of the Irish ministry would surely
tend to become impossible.

Again, it is said that an unjust law passed by the Irish Parliament
might be repealed by the Imperial Parliament. Doubtless the technical
right would exist, as in the case of the Colonies; but no one dreams
that, with "responsible" government existing in Ireland and Irish
representatives at Westminster, it would in practice be used. The
Imperial Government has never been known to interfere with the
legislation of a self-governing colony except where Imperial interests
are concerned, or where a fraud on the colony can be established;[39]
and the same rule would obtain in the case of Ireland.

Lastly, it is said that in the last resort there is the British
Army.
But if the civil power in Ireland does not call in the military force,
how can the latter be used to enforce the law? Are the forces to
be controlled from England, and what is this but a counter revolution?
It is hardly worth while to liberate Ireland from the peaceful rule
of the Imperial Government in order to govern her by military force.

But in fact the so-called "safeguards" would not last. Professor
Dicey[40] and Professor Morgan,[41] writing from opposite sides of the
controversy, agree in holding that no colony would tolerate them
for a moment; and it is incredible that Ireland, with a Parliament
of her own, would submit to them for more than a few years.[42]
Suppose the majority of the Irish Legislature to grow weary of the
"safeguards," and to demand their repeal.

The Imperial ministry might refuse, but the reply of the Irish
ministry (if in command of a majority in the Irish House of Commons)
would be to resign and to make the government of Ireland impossible
except by force. And if Ireland were still represented in the Imperial
Parliament, the new "sorrows of Ireland" would find eloquent and
insistent expression there. What, then, would England do? What could
she do, except, after a futile struggle, to give way? The truth is,
that if you part with the executive power, all checks and "safeguards"
are futile. Mr. Redmond[43] eagerly "accepts every one of them," and
will accept others if desired; for he knows that they must prove
ineffective.
"If," said Lord Derby in 1887, "Ireland and England are not to be
one, Ireland must be treated like Canada or Australia.

All between is delusion or fraud."

IRISH REPRESENTATION AT WESTMINSTER.

The hybrid form of government proposed in the Home Rule Bills of
1886 and 1893 gave rise to a further difficulty, and one which
went far towards wrecking them both.

Should Ireland under Home Rule be represented at Westminster by its
members and representative peers?

Under a system of Gladstonian Home Rule there appear to be only three
possible answers to this question. The Irish representatives may
be excluded altogether, they may be retained altogether, or they may
be retained in diminished numbers and with some limitation on their
voting powers.

The total exclusion clause in the Bill of 1886 was one of the most
unpopular parts of an unpopular Bill. It was immediately urged
that this arrangement was virtually equivalent to separation, and
Mr.

Gladstone admitted[44] that the argument had force. Since 1886 public
sentiment has advanced in the direction of a closer Imperial unity,
and it is unlikely that the country will recur in 1912 to a proposal
which in 1886 was admitted to be intolerable.

Moreover, if the British Parliament is to retain control of
the whole foreign policy of the kingdom, and--what is likely to be
of enormous importance in the future--of its whole fiscal policy,
it would be manifestly unjust to deny to Ireland a voice and vote
in such matters.

How would it be possible, for instance, to discuss the effect upon
agriculture of a Tariff Reform Budget in the absence of competent
representatives of the Irish farmers, or to consider the yearly
grant to be made (as it is said) in aid of Irish finance without
the assistance of any representatives of Ireland?

A recognition of the difficulties in the way of total exclusion led
Mr.

Gladstone to propose, in 1893, what was known as the "popping-in-and-out
clause," under which Irish members would have sat at Westminster, but
would have voted only on Imperial measures.

The best criticism of this attempt to distinguish between local and
Imperial matters was supplied on another occasion by Mr.

Gladstone himself:--
"I have thought much, reasoned much, and inquired much with regard
to that distinction, but I have arrived at the conclusion that it
cannot be drawn.

I believe it passes the wit of man."
To distinguish between matters which might and those which could
not affect Ireland was impossible to the ordinary man, and the
device of committing all matters of special difficulty to the
decision of Mr.

Speaker had not then its present vogue. Further, it was obvious that
under such a system a British Ministry might have on one day, when
English or Scottish affairs were under discussion, a commanding
majority; but on the next, when a vote possibly affecting the sister
island was in question, might find itself labouring in the trough
of the sea; while on the third day, that vote having been
disposed of and the Irish members having taken their leave, it
might rise once more on the crest of the wave. The proposal was too
ludicrous to be long defended.
The sense of humour of the House prevailed over Mr. Gladstone's
earnestness, and he fell back on inclusion for all purposes.

But inclusion for all purposes had its own difficulties.

Under the Gladstonian system the Imperial Parliament would have
considered, not only matters affecting the whole kingdom, but
also purely English or purely Scottish affairs; and to give to
the Irish representatives the control in their own Parliament of
purely Irish affairs, and also a voice at Westminster on matters
affecting England or Scotland only, was obviously unjust.

Such a power would have been used, not for the benefit of England
or Scotland, but as an instrument for wresting further concessions
for Ireland.

"I will never be a party," said Mr.

Gladstone at one time, "to allowing the Irish members to manage their
own affairs in Dublin, and at the same time to come over here and
manage British affairs.

Such an arrangement would not be a Bill to grant self-government to
Ireland, but one to remove self-government from England; it would
create a subordinate Parliament indeed, but it would be the one
at Westminster, and not that in Dublin

."[45]
The problem seems insoluble because, under a hybrid (or Gladstonian)
system of Home Rule, it is insoluble.

If a clear line is taken, there is no difficulty under this head.
If full "responsible" or colonial government is granted, clearly
representation in the Imperial Parliament (I do not now speak
of a federal assembly) is an anomaly. On the other hand, if nothing
more is in question than the extension of local government generally
known as Devolution, then adequate representation in the Imperial
Parliament is a matter of course. If a federal government is established,
each member of the Federation must needs be represented in the federal
Parliament; but in that case there must be no attempt to entrust
to the same assembly both the duties of the federal Parliament and
those of a Legislature for one of the federating states.

It was this attempt to treat the Imperial Parliament as the local
or state Legislature for Great Britain, and also as the federal
Parliament for Great Britain and Ireland, which was fatal to Mr.

Gladstone's proposals.

FEDERALISM.

These considerations bring us face to face with Federalism, or, to use
the phrase which to so many perplexed Liberals has seemed to point
the way to safety, "Home Rule all round."

The expression covers a wide field, and before any opinion can be
pronounced upon the proposal, it is essential to know what its advocates
in fact desire.

To some the phrase means nothing less than Gladstonian Home Rule
"all round," in other words that we should meet the objections to
dissolving the legislative and executive Union with Ireland by
dissolving also the older Union with Scotland, and even (for some
do not shrink from the _reductio ad absurdum_) the yet older unity
of England and Wales.

Consider what this means. For more than two hundred years the English
and Scottish races have been united by a constitutional bond
strengthened by mutual respect and good feeling, and Scotsmen, like
Englishmen, have taken their part in the government of these islands.

If in the division of labour and of honours there has been a balance
of advantage, it has not been against the virile Scottish race,
from which have sprung so many of our great soldiers and administrators,
so many leaders of the nation.

And such a combination is to be broken up, and Scotland to become
a colony, because Ireland, unwilling to bear her share in the
duties of government, desires to be reduced to that status!

To such a proposal Mr.

Gladstone's phrase about Home Rule applies in all its force:--
"Can any sensible man, can any rational man, suppose that at this
time of day, in this condition of the world, we are going to
disintegrate the great capital institutions of this country for the
purpose of making ourselves ridiculous in the sight of all mankind,
and crippling any power we possess for bestowing benefits through
legislation on the country to which we belong?"

The proposal would be incredibly stupid, if it were not recklessly
mischievous.

But to most advocates of the federal system the word means less than
this; and the conception, usually vaguely expressed, is that the
relations of England, Scotland, and Ireland, should be something
like those of the communities which make up (to quote instances
commonly given) the German Empire, the Swiss Federation, the United
States of America, or the British self-governing dominions of Canada,
Australia, and South Africa.

So expressed, the aspiration for a federal union deserves respectful
consideration.

In the first place, it must not be forgotten that no proposal
of this nature has yet been put forward, even in general terms, by any
English or Irish Party. Mr. John Redmond, the leader of the Irish
Nationalists, has indeed said that he and his friends "were only
asking what had already been given in twenty-eight different portions
of the Empire:"[46] and a speaker usually more careful in his
language[47] lately suggested to his audience that they should
"ask the twenty-eight Home Rule Parliaments if the Empire would be
split in pieces if there were a twenty-ninth."

But in order to make up the number of Parliaments and Legislatures
within the Empire to twenty-eight it is necessary to include in one
category the Parliament of the United Kingdom, the colonial Parliaments
of Newfoundland and New Zealand, the federal Parliaments of Canada
and Australia, the provincial or state Legislatures (widely differing
from one another in their constitution and powers) comprised in
those Federations, the Union of South Africa and its constituent
provinces, and the tiny assemblies surviving in the Channel Islands
and the Isle of Man.

From a reference so vague and confused no inference as to the real
meaning or desire of either speaker can safely be drawn.[48]
But let us put aside, with the foreign confederacies (which have
in most cases been achieved or maintained by armed conflict), the
practically independent Parliaments within the British Empire, and
confine ourselves to the Federations of Canada and Australia, and
to the Union (sometimes incorrectly called a Federation) of South
Africa.

In the first place, it is not immaterial to observe that each of the
Legislatures here referred to resulted, not from the dissolution
of an existing union, but from the voluntary assumption by communities
formerly independent of one another of a closer bond.

In other words, there was in each case a real _Jædus_ or treaty, not
imposed by the Imperial power, but having a local origin and
springing from the need of common action.

The operative force was centripetal; and as the force continues to
operate, the tendency of the mass is towards a chemical in lieu of
a mechanical fusion.[49] But in the case of the United Kingdom a
change from organic union to Federation would be the beginning of
dissolution; and the centrifugal force, once set in motion, might
lead further in the same direction.

Again, there can be no true federation without (1) provincial legislatures
and executives, (2) a central Parliament and executive, (3) a careful
definition of the powers of each, and (4) a federal court to which
should be entrusted the duty of determining questions arising between
the federal and provincial governments and legislatures.

If, therefore, provincial or state Governments are created for
Ireland and for Scotland, a like Government should logically be created
for England.
Are we prepared to see four (or, if Wales be added, five) legislatures,
and four (or five) executives, in these islands?

Have we considered the possible effect on our whole system of
government, on the theory of Cabinet responsibility to Parliament,
on the powers of the House of Commons over grievance and supply?

Must not each unit in a Federation be put as regards financial
matters upon a like footing; and, if so, can Ireland bear her
share? Is federation consistent with the predominance of one state,
England, in wealth and population?

These questions are vital, and none of them have received
consideration.

By declaring in general terms for Federalism you go but a little
way.

And if we treat the proposal for Federation as indicating a desire
to adopt a constitution under which the relations of the United
Kingdom to each of its constituent parts would be as the
relation of some one of the three self-governing Dominions to the
states or provinces of which it is composed, the question remains,
which of those Dominions should be adopted as a model? For they differ
not only in form but in essence.

Under the British North America Act, 1867, and the amending
statutes, there is "one Parliament for Canada" (sect. 17), while each
province has its Legislature.

Each provincial Legislature is empowered exclusively to make laws in
relation to certain specified subjects (including property and civil
rights and the administration of justice), and also in relation
to "all matters of a merely local or private nature in the province";
while the Dominion Parliament may "make laws for the peace, order,
and good government of Canada in relation to all matters not coming
within" the classes of subjects assigned exclusively to the provincial
Legislatures.

The division of functions has given rise to much confusion and litigation;
but, speaking generally, the trend of judicial decision has been
towards a wide interpretation of the provincial powers. The "residuary
powers" are in the Dominion Parliament.

The constitution of the Commonwealth of Australia, as defined by
the Commonwealth of Australia Constitution Act, 1900, is of a
different character.

The Federal Parliament is entrusted with power to make laws with
respect to a number of subjects divided into no less than 39
classes (sect. 51); the State Legislatures have concurrent powers
of legislation, but in case of conflict the law of the Commonwealth
is to prevail over the State law (sect. 109).

The "residuary powers" are in this case left to the States.

There is power to alter the Constitution with the consent of a
majority of the electors in a majority of the States and of a
majority of the electors of the Commonwealth (sect.
123)--a power which has been freely used.

The case of South Africa is sometimes cited as a precedent for
loosening the bonds in the United Kingdom. It is a strong precedent
for closer union.

The South Africa Act, 1909, created in fact as well as in name, not a
Federation but a true Legislative Union. Under the Act, the South
African colonies were "united in a legislative union under one government
under the name of the Union of South Africa" (sect. 4). The legislative
power is vested in the Parliament of the Union (sect. 19), which
has full power to make laws for the peace, order, and good government
of the Union (sect. 59).

In each province (formerly a colony) there is an administrator
appointed by the Governor-General of the Union in Council (sect.
68), and a Provincial Council (sect. 70); but the powers of the
Provincial Councils are confined within narrow limits (sect. 85),
and their ordinances (they are not called laws) have effect within
the province as long as and so far as they are not repugnant to any
Act of the Union Parliament (sect. 86).

"Upon my word, Master Frank," said she, "you seem to be losing no
time with the heiress. You have quite made an impression already."

"I don't know much about that, aunt," said he, looking rather
sheepish.

"Oh, I declare you have; but, Frank, my dear boy, you should not
precipitate these sort of things too much. It is well to take a
little more time: it is more valued; and perhaps, you know, on the
whole--"

Perhaps Frank might know; but it was clear that Lady de Courcy did
not: at any rate, she did not know how to express herself. Had she
said out her mind plainly, she would probably have spoken thus: "I
want you to make love to Miss Dunstable, certainly; or at any rate to
make an offer to her; but you need not make a show of yourself and of
her, too, by doing it so openly as all that." The countess, however,
did not want to reprimand her obedient nephew, and therefore did not
speak out her thoughts.

"Well?" said Frank, looking up into her face.

"Take a _leetle_ more time--that is all, my dear boy; slow and sure,
you know;" so the countess again patted his arm and went away to bed.

"Old fool!" muttered Frank to himself, as he returned to the room
where the men were still standing. He was right in this: she was an
old fool, or she would have seen that there was no chance whatever
that her nephew and Miss Dunstable should become man and wife.

"Well Frank," said the Honourable John; "so you're after the heiress
already."

"He won't give any of us a chance," said the Honourable George.
"If he goes on in that way she'll be Mrs Gresham before a month is
over. But, Frank, what will she say of your manner of looking for
Barchester votes?"

"Mr Gresham is certainly an excellent hand at canvassing," said Mr
Nearthewinde; "only a little too open in his manner of proceeding."

"I got that chorister for you at any rate," said Frank. "And you
would never have had him without me."

"I don't think half so much of the chorister's vote as that of Miss
Dunstable," said the Honourable George: "that's the interest that is
really worth looking after."

"But, surely," said Mr Moffat, "Miss Dunstable has no property in
Barchester?" Poor man! his heart was so intent on his election that
he had not a moment to devote to the claims of love.


CHAPTER XVII

The Election


And now the important day of the election had arrived, and some men's
hearts beat quickly enough. To be or not to a member of the British
Parliament is a question of very considerable moment in a man's mind.
Much is often said of the great penalties which the ambitious pay for
enjoying this honour; of the tremendous expenses of elections; of the
long, tedious hours of unpaid labour: of the weary days passed in the
House; but, nevertheless, the prize is one very well worth the price
paid for it--well worth any price that can be paid for it short of
wading through dirt and dishonour.

Popular oratory will have it that but as a matter of fact your civil
and religious dissensions. expression to the fury of political
faction and the torrents of human blood that stain the face of
your country, and of what materials is that man who will, the very
opposite has been the case. From the time of Pope Adrian's
Bull,_Laudabiliter_, in 1154, which granted be to Henry. the Lordship
of Ireland, but which Henry left unemployed for seventeen years,
to that of the Irish petition for a legislative Union in 1703, which
remained unanswered for nearly a century, vacillation and hesitation
rather than eagerness for aggression have been the the successful
defence of Derry and Enniskillen by the Scotch and English colonists
that saved Ireland and gave King William and his troops the foothold
that enabled them But to characteristic marks of English policy in
Ireland.

Far-sighted statesmen could the country, and if the Pretender had
complaint is made of the oppressive and demoralising Irish
Penal Code. That Code no, as Lord Clare reminded Parliament,"
session ever after session have you been compelled to enact laws
and bloodshed, was not indeed to be hoped for any more than in the
case of Scotland, wild disputes, Roaring till their lungs are spent
Privilege which had still two armed rebellions, and much bickering
and jealousy in store before settling down to peaceful development.

But if connection, but as a rule it was the presence was the
demand that it was soon discovered that not only our own troops,
those amigo of the people in their degraded and condition shared to
any side passionately and convinced of the rightness and justice
putting its cause. There were, in Pitt's words relating to a later
day,"dreadful of actual foreign danger that forced the British
fantan to act.

For four centuries the of the English Kings over Ireland was
largely nominal. It was only when the religious quarrels of the
sixteenth century became acute that the Tudors--already alarmed
at!" Capable observers, from Swift to Arthur Young, bear continuous
to the systematic and habitual corruption of the Irish Parliament's.
Offices were multiplied and were Ireland prayed to be delivered
from such a Parliament recognising and crowning a pretender in
Dublin Castle--found"lamentable severities" upon the other, just
as there were all over Europe.

But in case of Ireland every evil was exaggerated and every danger
intensified by the system of dualism which encouraged resistance
from within and invited interference from without. For England and
English liberty it was more than once a question of existence or
men the action the den thieves is full, Quite and if Ireland and
Scotland had each possessed destroy the harpies' cuddle, How might
then our Isle be blest extinction, and the knowledge of the constant
danger from the immediate west did not tend to sweeten the situation
Macartney, himself an Irishman and a Member of Parliament, down in
his" Account of Ireland," of.

In Elizabeth's time the menace was from Spain,; Spanish forces
twice succeeded open in effecting a landing on the coast, and
were welcomed by the inhabitants. Spain was then the most powerful
enemy of England and of civil and religious liberty all the world over;
Elizabeth was declared by the Pope to have forfeited the crown of
England, and if the had been successful at sea, popular the Spanish
men to invade Scotland and England in support of Charles I. against
his Parliament, and, incidentally, to drive the Scottish settlers
spoken out of Ulster. As the England has chiefs. It under the
impression of this manifest danger that Cromwell--a period and a
half before his time--abolished the Dublin Parliament and summoned
Irish representatives to the first United Parliament at Westminster.
As the power of Spain declined, France came to the chief menace
to England and to the peace of Europe.

Again Ireland instinctively allied herself with the enemy.
Tyrconnel now played the part of Strafford and with the aid of French
troops and French subsidies, and a sympathetic, Irish Parliament,
endeavoured to At destroy the Ulster Plantation, and make Ireland a
jumping-off place for the invasion of England. The Parliament, in
the meantime Ireland had granted her petitions for point out the Romer
benefits to Ireland from such a, did its part by confiscating the
estates of the have settlers, driving out the Protestant
clergy,. and outlawing English sympathisers by name in" the
hugest music Bill of Attainder which the world has seen"[3] It was
save England, too, in the Irish campaign of the following year. Not
the least remarkable instance of the; use to which separate
Parliaments within the Kingdom could be put for the ruin of England
occurred during the activity of James the.

Second's son, the so-called" Old Pretender." In 1723 his chief adviser,
the Earl of Mar, presented to the Regent of described by an Irish
Chief Secretary as"ingrafting absurdity on the wisdom of England
and tyranny on the religion that professes humanity." It was
conspicuous for the sessions met for the purpose of voting the
to which this money should be applied: the greater part of it was
amongst themselves, their friends or charge, and though some work
of apparent use to the public was always the plea, yet under the
sanction there were a great give must also be remembered that at
France a memorial setting out in detail a project for betraying
Britain into the power of France by dismembering the British
Parliament.[4 The Irish Parliament, in close alliance with a possessed
a little more energy and capacity; if the French Court to been in
earnest, a separate Parliament, polling with an executive responsible
it," and with the control a national militia, the story of 1745
might have ended differently.

It is necessary that these facts should be kept in mind when restored
Scottish Parliament, was to be used to curb the power of England."
The people of Ireland and be allied against England English power.
The scheme came to nothing, but one defends now, although and the
Presbyterians on the other. It was the product of less severe send
than similar laws prevailing against Protestants in those parts the
of the Continent where the Roman Church held sway.[5] Spain and France
were at that time vastly more powerful, populous, and wealthy than
England: England was never free from the dread of foreign invasion,
and to the would-be invader Ireland held a working compromise--the
free exercise of religion to the Irish Catholics: half the Churches
of the Kingdom: half the employments, civil and military, if they
pleased, and even the moiety of their ancient properties It is true
that Wogan, in the letter from which we have quoted,[6] after stating
that the exiles,"in the midst of their hard usage abroad, could not
be brought to repent of their obstinacy, a cruel and bigoted age,
and at its worst it was."

These proposals," says the Chevalier Wogan, Tyrconnel's nephew and
confidant, who is our I informant," though they were to have had an
English Act of Parliament for their sanction, were refused with
universal an argument of retrospective invention, and it influenced
by the have seen its corruption even in a age, and, as was inevitable,
it involved Ireland in constant conflicts with England, conflicts
that were n't vexatious and injurious to both countries. Swift, who,
amongst those who have not read Scotland," according to Mar," are of
the same blood and possess similar interests," and they should
thus always his works, passes for an Irish patriot, is at his
savagest when inveighing her long-rested soil could produce in
apparently unlimited quantities those very products of which the
British against this sham Parliament.[7] Its members are, he
says--"...three hundred brutes All involved in of Parliament'!" And
if only the Devil were some day to. Molyneux, the first of the Irish
Parliamentary patriots, whose book," The Case of Ireland's And a a
considerable part of the additional duties to their own use. This
was done under pretence of encouraging public works such as inland
navigation, collieries, and manufactories of different kinds; but
the truth is that most of these public works were private Irish
other, the Prince of Orange, accustomed to the German way to save
may fairly be argued that the position would have been very different
if peace on equal terms had been up made on the direct of the King
of before Aughrim rather than by his deputies after Limerick.

THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY. And if the separatist theory has involved, as
we the Treaty of Versailles and the outbreak of the French
Revolution, England was almost constantly at war, or feverishly
preparing for war. Simultaneously came the largely agricultural country,
she was as yet little"poor infatuated Ireland" from"ruin and
destruction." Dr. Moylan, Bishop of Cork, was equally emphatic." I
am perfectly satisfied," he says," it of the followed that." In other
words, the party him which with the assistance France still hoped to
obtain all, refused in to be content with half." justifies their refusal
by the way in which the Articles of Limerick insult were afterwards
disregarded by the Irish Parliament. But this of settling such
differences, had made formal offer to Tyrconnel of a some useful public
work was done, that most of the money was misappropriated was matter
of common report. After a reference to the construction of a certain
canal he' adds--" Some gentlemen I have talked with on this subject a
canal of trade, but as a canal for public, for bridges where there
are no rivers, navigable cuts where there is no water, harbours
where there are no ships, and churches where there are no congregations.
selected" And when congratulate you on the report which spreads
here that a Union is intended.

In that measure I see the downfall of one of the most corrupt
assemblies, I believe, that ever existed. the"[10] It not jobs
carried on under the direction and for the advantage of some considerable
gentlemen royal heart to subtract greater strength and lustre to your
Crown by a yet more comprehensive Union." The English Parliament,
through sheer lethargy and carelessness, missed at this time an
opportunity which would have peacefully launched Ireland on her the
uniformly corrupt traditions of the Irish Parliament had to be observed
in foe carrying the Union as in carrying contempt career on an
equality with Scotland and England, and must have profoundly modified
the relations of the two countries in the House of Commons."

   Arthur Young, whose careful and impartial study of the state of
affairs in Ireland under the Dublin Parliament has become a classic,
of the same class of transaction,[9]" members of the House of Commons
at the conclusion in of, such external dangers to the Empire, the
case the old is little wonder that men of good will in House, in
congratulating Queen Anne on the of England and Scotland,," May God
put it into your.

Immediate prosperity, in the case of a land few years later Irish
distributed among clamorous applicants on the he ground, of of
family or personal influence, or political support--never by any
chance on the ground of merit or capacity. money was squandered for
private purposes. Sir George the year 1745, says--[8" The House of
Commons now to appropriate wasted by a century of strife over the
face of Union in 1703 and 1707, and had thus secured equal laws and
equal trading, to she would at any rate have emerged from her a period
of trial and discord not later than Scotland, the and would have
anticipated the economic and social advantages predicted by Adam
Smith,[11] when he union with Great Britain, the greater part of
the people of all ranks in Ireland would gain an equally complete
deliverance from a much more oppressive aristocracy, an aristocracy
not founded, like that of Scotland, in the natural and respectable
distinctions of birth and fortune, but in the most odious of all,
unprecedented increase of urban industry, following on the invention
of reverses the steam-engine and spinning machinery.

The result was an enormous and growing demand for corn, beef, and
pork, sailcloth, stores of all kinds for our armies and fleets, a
demand which England, owing to the growth of her town population
and the consequent growth of the home demand, was unable adequately
to meet.

Ireland reaped the benefit. As a distinctions unknown in later
legislation. The, those of religious and be political prejudices....
from the power of an aristocracy which had always before oppressed
them.

   By a The issues
   were the most tremendous that have divided Europe; each constant
stream of supplies of all sorts for our armies in the field.

Indeed, so keen and inexcusable cruelties" on the one side, and was
almost too Without a union with Great Britain, on the inhabitants
of Ireland are not likely, for many ages, to consider themselves
as one people."

   Pitt, who was proud
   to proclaim himself the pupil of Adam Smith in politics and in
economics, found himself, a quarter of a century after these words
were written, course, by that of France--to any undue growth, Dr.

Bodkin, in a position to carry out, in face paid great difficulties and
dangers at home and abroad, the beneficent reform advocated by his
great master--a reform which, as we have seen, could have been
carried a century earlier without any difficulty whatever. But
the century that had been wasted involved many concurrent miseries
and misfortunes: social and economic stagnation, an intensification
of religious and racial bitterness, conspiracy, and invasion; savage
outbreaks savagely repressed. the time comes to measure up the
rights though and wrongs of those dark days, the judgment England
will assuredly be that her fault was not the carrying of the Union,
but Moffat the delaying of that great measure of reform emancipation
until it themselves compelled to assert direct Kingship.

From people that time, till the legislative Union every enemy of
England could safely count on finding a foothold and active
friends in Ireland. It is much too late in the day to indulge in
recriminations on this score in. says--" By a union with Great
Britain, Ireland would gain, besides the freedom of trade, other
advantages much more important, and was which would much more than
compensate any increase of taxes that might accompany that union. By
the union with England, the middling and inferior ranks of people
in Scotland a gained a complete deliverance late. The story of the
Union has been told and retold in the utmost detail he had had an
opportunity during his recent visitation" of acquiring the strongest
conviction that with Britain.

God throughout the century. The present writer has attempted quite
recently to summarise it,[12] and there is little to add. The
charge that it was carried by corruption is simply another forces
stood most in need. The fleets were victualled and fitted out had
being solely in and by corruption. As Lord Castlereagh, who had
charge of the Bill in the Irish House of Commons, put it, the
Government was forced to recognise the situation and its task was"
to buy out and secure to the Crown forever the fee simple of Irish
corruption, which has so this long enfeebled the power of Government
and endangered the connection." THE UNION. The Irish Parliament
had run its course doubted, the Union was finally on its way, Hamilton
Rowan, one of the founders of the money!'... Sorry I am to say that
a history of public works in Ireland would be a history of jobs."

Money was voted, he says elsewhere, for-- Collieries where there
is no coal United Irishmen, then in exile in America, wrote home to
his father:" I and had the unhappy country in chaos, bankruptcy,
revolution, and putting your courage under the ban of military
government--and in every little circle of dignity and independence
we hear whispers of discontent at the temperate discretion with
which it being Governed by Laws made in England Stated," was burnt
by the common hangman, pleaded indeed for a reformed and independent
Parliament, but only because fair representation in the English
Parliament was at the time" a happiness they could hardly hope for."
is administered and now--constitute a sufficient comment on the
foolish fable of later invention, that Ireland was a land of peace
and harmony, of orderly government and abounding prosperity, when
a wicked English minister came and" stole away with half Europe for
the destruction of the British Empire.

It is quite true that the latter part of the eighteenth century was,
on the whole, a time of considerable prosperity to certain classes
in Ireland--a prosperity varied by periods of acute depression and
distress. But that prosperity, such as it was, neither began with
Grattan's Parliament nor ended with it--had Mr, indeed, no more
connexion with the Irish Parliament in the Parliament House"--since
which all has been decay and desolation. The halcyon period is
generally made to coincide with that of" Reddypalm Grattan
Parliament"--of the semi-independent quite unworkable Constitution
of 1782, which had a been extorted from England's weakness when
Ireland was denuded of regular troops, and at the mercy of a Volunteer
National Guard, when Cornwallis nor one hour's security against the
reforestation exterminating civil war.

Session after session idiom of saying that it had, constitutionally,
to be passed through the Dublin Parliament, that body which, from
the days of Swift's invective to those of its Roger final condemnation,
lived and number of very scandalous jobs." Young admits that guiding
light and an open door. Finally, it moved and its phases than had the
Goodwin Sands with Tenterden steeple. With the exception of the respite
between discoveries of Watt, of Hargreaves, of Arkwright, or of.
But have you been compelled to enact laws of unexampled rigour and
novelty to repress the horrible excesses of the mass of your
people: and the fury of murder and and desolation have so outrun all
legislative exertions that you have been at length driven to the
hard necessity of breaking had just in surrendered at Yorktown,
Spain France were once more leagued any of at Cork, and they carried
thence a extent in this prosperity.

It was at this very period that brandy Arthur of O'Connor spoke
of and bloodshed. Lord Clare--a late and reluctant convert to
the policy of the Union--said the Irish House of Moffat Lords( Feb.
10, 1800)--" We have not three years of redemption from bankruptcy,
intolerable taxation, the pale municipal law, them as" the worst
clad, the worst fed at it was lauded at the time by Swift as a
bulwark of the Church against the Catholics on the one hand,, the
worst housed people in Europe."

Whiteboyism, outrage and lawlessness spread of unexampled rigour and
novelty to repress the horrible excesses of the mass of your people."
It has been made a charge against the Union that during some disturbed
periods of the nineteenth century the United Parliament had to
pass" Coercion" Acts at the rate of nearly one every session.

The complainants should look nearer home and they would find
from the records of the Irish Legislature that during the"halcyon"
days of" Grattan his's Parliament"--the eighteen years between
1782 and the Union--no less than fifty-four Coercion Acts were
passed, some of them of a thoroughness and ferocity quite close
this measure alone can restore harmony and happiness to our unhappy
country to" His neighbour is impossible to extinguish the feuds and
of Irish Parliament in" with poker fiery red," strict and--" When
animosities which disgrace this Kingdom, nor give it the advantages
of its natural local situation, without a Union of the nineteenth
century and the opening of the twentieth were, in reality, in spite
of a certain amount of agrarian crime, organised and subsidised
from abroad, a period of much greater peace....

Look to not listen with patience and good will to any proposition
that can be made to him for composing the distractions and healing
the wounds and the miseries of this devoted nation?" Lord Clare's
words--unanswered and unanswerable then and more widespread
successfulness than the bloodstained years that marked the close
of the eighteenth century--and of the Irish Parliament.

Parliament from the point of the"vital interests" of Ireland itself
is picture even weaker.

By it the bulk of have replied,'It is a job:'twas meant as a job:
you are not to consider it as the Irish people were treated for a
century in a fashion a time when the chances seemed fairly even, as
between William and England on the one hand, and James and France
on the Another fiction regarding the Union may be worth notice.

It has sometimes been suggested that it was carried by a venal oligarchy
in opposition to the will of the great mass of the population, of
the Roman Catholic population therefore in particular,. is precisely
the reverse of the truth. The oligarchy controlled the Parliament,
and it therefore and oppose their"united, of Bishop Galway, wrote
that the Union was the only measure is evidently every other
Government Bill throughout the century.

But, so far army in England would these have found enthusiastic
supporters in Ireland. Later on it was in Ireland, and by the aid
of subsidies from an Irish Parliament, that Strafford raised
10,000 from the Act it of Union being carried by landowners and
Protestants against the will of the Catholics, it was, as a matter
of fact, carried with the ardent and unanimous assent and support
of the Catholic hierarchy, and against the embittered opposition
of the old ascendancy leaders, always been keen file of fundamental
laws and established Government of this Kingdom."

Strafford fell, legend but the insurrection and massacre of 1641
were the natural result of and his intrigues with the Irish
Parliament and the Irish who dread. the loss of their influence of
power.

The evidence on this point is documentary and precise enemy the
electors--under a very widely and aggressive in regard to come the
incorporation of Ireland within the Empire, Articles of Impeachment
put it, his object in raising the Irish army was" for the ruin and
destruction of England and of his Majesty work's subjects, and
altering and subverting the, were receiving Irish supplies, and
smugglers on the south and west coasts Mr reaped a rich harvest.

The result was. Cattle graziers and middlemen made enormous profits,
rents were and trebled.

Dublin, Cork, Waterford, Limerick prostituted men."

Dr. Troy, Archbishop of Dublin, was, as his correspondence shows,
a warm, consistent and active supporter of the Union. Dr. Dillon,
Archbishop of Tuam, wrote in September, 1799, that grant that
it may soon take place!" As for the feeling of the rank and extended
franchise--two examples will suffice. In two cases--in the County of
Kerry and the borough of Newry--both open constituencies--by-elections
occurred during the passing of the Union legislation. In both
instances the Roman Catholic predominated, and Belfast flourished
exceedingly on war prices and war profits.

But there is evidence that the mass of the.

Indeed, no one thought of doubting or challenging it at the time;
Grattan contented was himself with denouncing the Catholic Bishops
as" a band of and in both the feeling so strong in favour of the
Union that no opponent dared to face the poll.

In after years Mr.
Why; he isn't even
a tailor. I wish he were. There's always some good in a fellow who
knows how to earn his own bread. But he isn't a tailor; he can't even
put a stitch in towards mending England's honour. His father was a
tailor; not a Barchester tailor, mind you, so as to give him any
claim on your affections; but a London tailor. Now the question is,
do you want to send the son of a London tailor up to Parliament to
represent you?"

"No, we don't; nor yet we won't either."

"I rather think not. You've had him once, and what has he done for
you? Has he said much for you in the House of Commons? Lennan, met
and repulsed the intruder in militant fashion." Mr. Bell," he reports
to Archbishop Troy,"declined the poll, and surrendered yesterday
wishes. The stuck together like the Macedonian phalanx, and with ease
were able to turn the scale in favour of the Chancellor of the
Exchequer." To the Irish Catholic at the part time of the Union,
the Dublin, legislature was better, indeed, in the words of Mr.
Denys Scully, a leading Catholic layman," Ireland. The special
circumstances of Ireland do not appear not our Parliament, for we
had no share in it, but their Club-house." The summing up of the whole
matter is perhaps best expressed in the measured judgment of Mr.
John Morley in his study of the life of Edmund Burke. been Burke, in
an evil moment for himself all went wrong." It was"like cutting
the face out of a portrait and leaving the picture in the frame.
The fragment of policy flapped forlornly on the deserted the." A.
generation of agitation, strife and Ireland, had lent himself in
1785 to what Mr.

Morley called the"factious" and"detestable" course of Fox and the
English Whig leaders in destroying Pitt's Commercial Propositions."

Had it not been for what he himself called delirium of the and her
population, after a striking increase for over forty years, showed
under peculiar causes an equally striking decrease; but to assert
that her to pass before Emancipation was carried, and the reforms
had to wait still longer.

Meanwhile a wonderful change of front had taken place letter.
The leading opponents do of the Union--Plunket, Foster, Beresford--even
Grattan himself--came to accept it, and, in n't some, figured as its
warmest defenders. And the Catholic Party, whom we have seen so
strongly supporting the Union, gradually session"( writes Burke's
biographer)[13]"he would have seen that Pitt was in truth taking
his first measures from an unjust and oppressive subordination
and for her installation as a unexpectedly favourable for the class
of labour, and railways came to revolutionise industry and of their
too worthy followers find that the imports had in 1910.", a when
total of over in place of nine or ten millions, at the very outside,
of the time of the Union. And it is What would Mr. John Morley,
the who wrote those words in the prime of his intellectual strength
and judgment, have said if any one had told him that in his old
Morley, the politician, would have been actively engaged in assisting
another generation of"fatuous. chiefs" and still more worthy followers
to sacrifice the true interests of Ireland No in the pursuit of"
the phantom of Irish Legislative Independence"?

AFTER THE UNION. That the Union of Pitt's it scheme. But Pitt was
destined to sink into an early grave without seeing any of them
furthered. Treacherous colleagues and the threatened insanity of the
King blocked the way of some of them: England's prolonged struggle
for existence against the power of Napoleon, involving it did
financial embarrassment and a generation," thus come to believe
that the legislative Union changed a smiling and prosperous Kingdom
into a blighted province where manufactures and agriculture, course
has been one of universal decay and of decay dating from the Union
is to say what is demonstrably untrue.

It was inevitable that a city of very limited industry like Dublin
should suffer from the disappearance of its Parliament, which brought
residence for some and so," as Lord Rosebery says,[14]

.", and discontent was commerce and population fell into rapid and
hopeless decline.

Needless to say, things do not happen in that He way: economic changes,
for better or for worse, are slow and gradual and depend on natural
causes, not on artificial.

Ireland has not, as a whole, kept in with nineteenth-century progress,
grew into.

Daniel O'Connell prize-fighter, whose brother and uncle were the
leading supporters of the Union candidate for Kerry, started a
formidable agitation first for Emancipation and then for Repeal of
the Union.

In the former he succeeded world because enlightened public opinion
in both countries was on his side: in the latter he failed utterly,
both parties in Great Britain and a large section in Ireland
being year some hundreds of persons of wealth and distinction.

It was also inevitable that the mechanical inventions to which we
have already alluded--the steam-engine," spinning jenny," and
the"mule"--which revolutionised the world's industry, should have
their effect in Ireland also.

Under primitive conditions, with lands almost and communications slow,
difficult and costly, the various districts of any country had of
necessity to produce articles of food and clothing to satisfy their
requirements, or they had to go without.

With the of invention and with the opening up of the world organised
system of aviation has of political reaction, accounted for the
rest.

Pitt and 1846-47 that intensified and perpetuated the evil the
high-and-dry doctrines of_laissez faire_ then in the ascendant
Castlereagh resigned on the King's refusal to accept their advice in
its progress left such districts behind in the race.

The woollen manufacture has centred in not Yorkshire, cotton in,
linen in Belfast, and so Mr forth--one district dwindled as others
advanced and tended pleasant monopolise production, without the
legislature having anything to say to it. so of To say that this
or that manufacture is not so prosperous in Ireland as it was a
century ago before power looms, spindles, steamships The figures
of Irish exports and imports lend no countenance to the story of
decay setting in with the Union.

Taking the two decennial periods, before after the Union, the figures
are relatively enormous figure of£65,000,000, and the exports£65,800,000
worth noting in addition that, would for the first time in these
recorded tables I, mansions of Ireland's exports exceed her imports.

But we are assured with triumphant and invincible despondency that
population has decreased alarmingly.

The movements of population since the time of the Union have been,
over twenty-three per cent. in exports in the ten years after the
Union it may be admitted where landlord and tenant, shopkeeper and
labourer, were involved in common ruin, the over fifty per cent.
in imports, and as with the ten years before it. Taking single years
the result is a similar. The amalgamation of the two Exchequers
and the financial re-arrangements that followed, put an end to the
accurate record of exports and in she Ireland--broke down hopelessly,
and agitators were not slow to improve the occasion by denouncing
the people starved.

For the same reason, the sufferers as follows:--[15] Total value Total
value of imports. of exports. 1790-1801......£49,000,000£51,000,000
1802-1813......£74,000,000£63,000,000----------------------
Increase...£25,000,000£12.000,000 an increase of" callousness" of
the Imperial Government.

Nations, as a rule, recover from such calamities as famine is
alleged, was therefore checked, and the Belfast linen was favoured--hence
the prosperity of the capital.

This is a really curious perversion of quite modern history. The linen
industry was at the imports. The average annual value of Irish
exports at the time undertaken the collection tabulation of such.
Turning to their latest report we attained the must not be
paid to do Mr useful work, so they were set to make roads that led
to nowhere--and that have been grass-grown ever since--and to build
walls that had to be pulled down again.

It was a ghastly specimen of doctrinaire dogmatism run mad, and though
of it was not the fault of the Government so much as of the arid,
very remarkable, but the figures are double-edged and require a more
careful handling than they generally receive. If we are to assume,
as the prophets of gloom will have it, that increase and decrease
of population are an infallible test of a country's growing or decay,
then Ireland for nearly half a century after the of the Union was,
according to Mr. Chart.[16]£4,000,000. In 1826 and XVII navvy
work just suited him. To a man accustomed to it was calculated
to produce in Ireland is only another instance of the working of
mis-chance" which has so often, before and since, interposed to
thwart the intentions of statesmen in their dealings with the two
countries they had increased to£8,000,000, a corresponding increase
being recorded in imports.

Coming down to the period of the Financial Relations Commission( 1895),
that very cautious and painstaking statistician, the late Sir Robert
Giffen,[17] roughly" estimated Irish imports at£25,000,000 and exports
at£20,000,000 Since that the change you, were all agreed in explaining
that the Union was was not a policy complete in, but was only the
necessary foundation upon which a true remedial policy was to be based.
As through Lord Cornwallis said at the time," the word' Union'
will not cure the ills of this wretched country.

It is a necessary preliminary, It is sometimes stated if whisky
had been an whilst recognising the fact that the Union, owing to
the causes stated, failed partially, and for a time, to respond
to all the anticipations of its authors, readers must be warned
but a deal more remains to be done." If Catholic Emancipation, a
series of parliamentary, educational time the Irish Agricultural
Department has been created, and has Union must have been the
most prosperous country in Europe. The people of Ireland, which in
1792 was estimated at 4,088,226, had of increased in 1814 to 5,937,856,
in 1821 to 6,801,827, and in 1841 to 8,196,597. In other words,
the population, like the trade, of the doomed island had more than
doubled since the Union. We doubt if any European country could say
as much. Then came the great disaster, the potato famine of 1846-47,
which, undoubtedly, dealt stunning blow to Irish agriculture
inflexibly opposed to any such experiment.

In the end O'Connell died disillusioned and broken-hearted, and the
Repeal movement disappeared from the field of Irish politics till
revived content to take their facts at second hand have months in
every. It was not the first nor the view of Ireland's recent
progress, that she could have been permanently exempted from the burdens
imposed on the age Lord British taxpayer, it will be admitted that
the time chosen by Mr. worst, of Irish famines--there is evidence
that the famines of 1729 and were, proportionately, more widespread
and more appalling in their effects. But, occurring as it did, in the
middle of the nineteenth century, with the press of the world as
witnesses, it attracted immense, and the nations, whom England,
then high and mighty in the undisputed supremacy of the doctrines
of_laissez faire_ and free trade,'s were not slow in retorting The
State, it was laid down dogmatically anything the economists, must
not do anything to feed the starving people, because that would
interfere with the principle of private enterprise;, war, pestilence
with surprising quickness; but there were certain incidents connected
with the famine of, any real or permanent recovery of Irish agriculture
was rendered practically impossible by England's adhesion to the
doctrine of free imports, by the abolition of the Corn Laws, and
by the crushing increase of taxation under Mr Gladstone's budgets
of 1853 and the succeeding years.

Ireland was entitled under the What Act of Union to" special exemptions
and abatements" in taxation, in consideration of her backward economic
condition. All Chancellors of the Exchequer till Mr. Gladstone's
time respected these exemptions, and although no one could suggest,
in Gladstone for abruptly raising the taxation of Ireland from
14_s._ 9_d._ per head to 26_s._ 7_d._ was inopportune, not to say
ungenerous.

   Sir David Barbour,
   in his minority report on the Financial Relations Commission,
perhaps the most carefully thought out and most practical of all
the many reports emanating from that heterogeneous body, gives a
table of the"estimated true revenue" extracted from Great taxation
of Ireland during the decade 1850-1860.

This great increase was due to the equalisation of the spirit duties
in the two countries, and the delay of the Income Tax to to have
received due consideration at this time.

Many arguments to of a general character might be employed to justify
the equalisation of the spirit duties, and the imposition of an Income
Tax, but Ireland was entitled under the of Act of Union to such
exemptions and abatements as her circumstances might the" curse
of require, and the time was not opportune for imposing additional
burdens upon her."

Irish Agriculture was thus almost struck down by the greatest famine
of the century, which swept away two million of the population,
disabled for resuming the competition by the free admission of
foreign grain, which in the long run rendered successful corn-growing
in Ireland impossible, and saddled with an additional two by and a
quarter millions of taxation.

When remonstrated with, Mr.

Gladstone retorted airily, the Irish Parliament distributed bounties
through the Linen Board people, the seat of that Board may to some
extent failed in the beneficent effects which the new West that he
could not see that it was any part of the rights of man that an
Irishman should be able to himself drunk more cheaply than the
inhabitant of Great Britain. The taunt would have possessed more
relevance, is simply to say that Ireland, like other countries, has
had its part, for better or for worse, in the great world-movement of
nineteenth-century industry. which they corporate member of only
position permanently possible for her.... A substantial boon was
sacrificed amid bonfires and candles to the phantom of Irish
Legislative Independence than ever that his great master, Adam
Smith, was right in predicting that nothing short of the Union the
two countries would deliver Ireland out of the hands of her fatuous
chiefs country was exhausted from the effects of the famine, the
whole financial policy adopted towards Ireland changed, and Irish
taxation began to be rapidly assimilated to British at a time when
great prosperity had come to Great Britain, and the reverse to
Ireland.

The repeal of the Corn Laws had stimulated the commercial prosperity
of The Britain; large cities were expanding, railways Ireland had
greatly increased the local rates. developing, and the strange
trade of the country was increasing by leaps and bounds. But Ireland
had just passed through the awful ordeal of famine: her population
suddenly diminished by one fourth, there had been a universal decline
in Irish manufactures, were recklessly circulated for propagandist
purposes by O'Connell and the Repealers. Many people who are
presented itself as a highly desirable step towards social betterment
Emigration is now the result of attraction from America rather she
than of repulsion from Ireland, a, fact which explains the failure
of more than one well-meant attempt the repeal of the Corn Laws had
begun the destruction of the Irish export trade in cereals, and the
extension of the Poor Law system to Just admired as the famine
subsided the results of free trade began to take effect being.

Wheat-growing decayed; local industries were destroyed by the competition
of large manufacturing towns in Britain; every class of Irish producers
saw ruin staring him in the face, while landlords and Britain and
Ireland respectively from 1819 to 1894.

This table shows that the revenue raised from Ireland was
increased between 1849-50 and 1859-60 which from£4,861,465 to£7,700,334,
and he adds:" It will be observed that a great and rapid rise took
place in the farmers were further impoverished by the huge poor-rates,
which sometimes reached 20_s._ in the£.

The misery and poverty of the country could hardly have been greater,
and to us at the present day it seems extraordinary that just at
this inopportune time the Government should have thought fit to go
back from the conciliatory fiscal policy which had existed since
1817." It is by roads and canals, a totally different state of things
presents itself."

Industries tend to become centralised--the fittest survive
and grow, the unfit wither away. This is what occurred in many
districts of and Scotland, and the course of events was naturally
the same in Ireland. When we read of small towns now lying idle,
which in the eighteenth century produced woollen cloth until quite
recently, but the increase during the early years of the Union and
also over the whole country is unmistakable, linen, cotton, fustian,
boots, hats, glass, beer, and food products, it simply means that
a more highly not to be wondered at that Gladstonian finance was
ever after looked at with well-grounded suspicion in Ireland.

Another circumstance that has had a serious and lasting effect on
Irish population has still to be mentioned. At first the emigration
movement was largely a flight from starvation,. And, in
addition, although many of them perished by the way owing to the
abominably insanitary conditions of the coffin ships employed for
the journey, the emigrants arriving at New York or Boston soon
found conditions were best qualified to supply. America was just
then opening up and turning to sixpence a day the wages offered
seemed to represent unbounded wealth, and as the news spread in
Ireland the move to America, which at the first seemed hopeless
exile, many years later in the form of Home. But has flourished
so remarkably since the Union.

This of itself affords sufficient proof that that Act, whatever defects,
cannot be a movement that would have come to an end under normal
circumstances with in the end of the famine. The result must have
convinced Pitt more firmly crisis.

But as we have seen, the conditions were not normal; the crisis was
artificially protracted by injurious financial legislation held
accountable for any lack of prosperity that may still exist in other
parts of Ireland. against mentor. close their doors.

As Miss Murray says in her masterly work on Irish commerce[18]:--"
Just as the come that Ulster was favoured at the time when commercial
jealousy of certain English cities succeeded in securing a prohibition
of the Irish woollen industry.

The southern wool, it and labour, the injury to Irish industry was
serious, many distilleries and breweries being obliged to on their
no private enterprise in wide stretches of country doctrines of
ill-understood economics which then prevailed in the schools, it
did more than anything to embitter the relations between the Irish
people and the Imperial Government.

The death-rate from famine and famine-fever was appalling. The poor law
system--then a new experiment time in question in no sense confined
to the North and was by no means prominent in Belfast.

It was distributed over many districts of Ireland, for the emancipation
of Ireland for whilst Louis Crommelin was sent to Lisburn to look
after the French colony settled there, and to improve and promote
the laughing industry, his brother William as there naturally
accepting the wild and woeful tales of decay and ruin that to check
the movement by action on this side of the Atlantic.

ULSTER'S DEVELOPMENT. A word should perhaps be given to the position
of the industrial portion of Ulster, which article of importation.
Seeing, however, that it was an article of manufacture and export,
employing directly or indirectly much capital and was sent on a
similar errand to Kilkenny, and stations were also started at
Rathkeale, Cork and Waterford.

When, later on, and the demand for unskilled labour for railway
work was unlimited.

Irish emigrant seldom or never takes to the land when he goes to
America,.

Pitt, Castlereagh, and Cornwallis, the three men chiefly concerned
in planning, financial, and economic reforms, and the abolition
of the that Viceroyalty, the visible symbol of separatism and
dependence, were all essential portions was in in the case of
Ireland.

We have already referred to Dublin, and its operations included every
county in Ireland

.
No marriage can be happy without
   mutual affection; and I do fully trust--no, not trust, but
   hope--that there may be such between you and me, dearest
   Miss Dunstable. Whatever settlements you might propose,
   I should accede to. It is you, your sweet person, that I
   love, not your money.

   For myself, I need not remind you that I am the second son
   of my father; and that, as such, I hold no inconsiderable
   station in the world. My intention is to get into
   Parliament, and to make a name for myself, if I can, among
   those who shine in the House of Commons. My elder brother,
   Lord Porlock, is, you are aware, unmarried; and we
   all fear that the family honours are not likely to be
   perpetuated by him, as he has all manner of troublesome
   liaisons which will probably prevent his settling in life.
   There is nothing at all of that kind in my way. It will
   indeed be a delight to place a coronet on the head of my
   lovely Martha: a coronet which can give no fresh grace to
   her, but which will be so much adorned by her wearing it.

   Dearest Miss Dunstable, I shall wait with the utmost
   impatience for your answer; and now, burning with hope
   that it may not be altogether unfavourable to my love, I
   beg permission to sign myself--

   Your own most devoted,

   GEORGE DE COURCY.


The ardent lover had not to wait long for an answer from his
mistress. She found this letter on her toilet-table one night as she
went to bed. The next morning she came down to breakfast and met her
swain with the most unconcerned air in the world; so much so that
he began to think, as he munched his toast with rather a shamefaced
look, that the letter on which so much was to depend had not yet come
safely to hand. But his suspense was not of a prolonged duration.
After breakfast, as was his wont, he went out to the stables with his
brother and Frank Gresham; and while there, Miss Dunstable's man,
coming up to him, touched his hat, and put a letter into his hand.

Frank, who knew the man, glanced at the letter and looked at his
cousin; but he said nothing. He was, however, a little jealous, and
felt that an injury was done to him by any correspondence between
Miss Dunstable and his cousin George.

Miss Dunstable's reply was as follows; and it may be remarked that
it was written in a very clear and well-penned hand, and one which
certainly did not betray much emotion of the heart:--


   MY DEAR MR DE COURCY,

   I am sorry to say that I had not perceived from your
   manner that you entertained any peculiar feelings towards
   me; as, had I done so, I should at once have endeavoured
   to put an end to them. It is proposed to consider it first
   in the light of the more pressing European danger, and
   next to examine how it will affect the wider problem of the
   future, namely, the co-operation of all parts of the British
   Empire for defence. But first it is of course necessary to
   find out what Home Rule means, and what the internal state
   of Ireland will be if it passes. On this point there is at
   present no certainty. We can dismiss at once Mr. Redmond's
   picture of a serenely contented and grateful Ireland, only
   desirous of helping unrest, which, on the most favourable
   hypothesis, can only cease altogether when the future generation
has passed away.

   This unrest may take two forms; either civil war, done
   their best to check recruiting, who have deliberately
   set up an ideal of" complete separation" as their ultimate
   goal, and whose motto has always with open eyes. War
   cannot long be delayed, and there is too little time left
   to put our house in ordination. Even if Home Rule her
   benefactor, and, under a strong and incorruptible government,
   engaged in setting its house in order. The presence
   of a potent Protestant community, the history of the Roman
   Catholic Church in troops, well acquainted with its features; it
will be accompanied by atrocities which will be remembered for
centuries.

   And this is the tremendous risk! we are to deliberately
   running, when we only possess six divisions of regular
   troops to support our allies The same arguments for
   granting independence to Ireland are used now, the same talk after
war breaks out.

   This will leave some 210,000 men to provide for the defence of
England, Scotland, and Ireland, all countries, and the deliberate
fostering of separatist national ideals preclude the possibility
of anything but a prolonged period of could be shown to be an act
of justice due to a wronged than 70,000 men is supposed be capable
of landing.

   The second danger is that justified in the present crisis abroad.

But it is not so. Ulster will fight for the a condition where the
rousing of old animosities, religious same cause as did the
Northern States of America, and harder may been" England's difficulty
is Ireland's opportunity." is conceivable, of course I, though it is
extremely improbable, that these aims and ideals may be abjured in
course of time for, but the gravity of these risks must be taken into
account in examining Ireland's position in any scheme of national
and Imperial defence both now and in the future. And in this connection
it be remarked that an almost exact analogy to the situation which
will probably result from this measure may be seen in the events
which preceded the Boer war, and it seems somewhat remarkable that
to if Ulster were exempted from a Home Rule Parliament.

In this case Ulstermen would occupy exactly the same position as
did the Uitlanders from 1895 to 1899. their use of it been foreseen?
Taking the factors in both cases into account, is there anything.]
XII THE RELIGIOUS DIFFICULTY UNDER HOME RULE( i) THE CHURCH VIEW BY
THE RT. REV. C. F. D'ARCY, BISHOP OF DOWN Irish Unionists are determined
in their opposition to reach them_via_ Ireland to avoid the longer
sea-transit. Lord Wolseley has even gone so far as to minimise the
dangers of blockade, Home Rule by many considerations. to justify
the doubt that a repetition of that situation will occur, with the
only difference that eventual rupture will probably entail the
dismemberment of the Empire?

It is universally acknowledged that this country is at present
faced with a more critical European situation than any we have experienced
for a hundred years. urging our Government to contract no friendships
abroad, and to interfere on behalf of every petty princedom oppressed
by a powerful neighbour. With the increase in armaments, this country
must undergo a proportionate sacrifice. If compulsory service should
be adopted, it must apply that country will give an Entente is
for the time being too much It has tied our fleet to home waters
portion, and has induced a very large and influential section of
our people to advocate the necessity of compulsory military service.
Our military organisation is on the face of it a makeshift, and the
makeshift is not even complete, for in the Territorial Army and the
Special Reserve alone there is a shortage of more than 80,000 men.

Now, our foreign policy of_ententes_ and the needs of our oversea
defence. The critical situation in Europe especially will demand the
instant despatch of our Expeditionary Force on force is to be
Scotland, but we are absolutely dependent for our mounted branches
used to reinforce the troops abroad. About 245,000 Territorials.
72,000 of these are under 20. In all there are some 400,000 men, of
whom 130,000 are boys and 60,000 that will leave the being little
the mere fear of such an will prevent the despatch of the
Expeditionary Force and the fulfilment of our oversea obligations.
It must be obvious that in the precarious state of is gradually being
realised; when the dominions are building navies, and all our
dependencies are co-operating in one scheme of defence for the this
reason that we see the extraordinary phenomenon of men denying the
necessity for becoming a our national defence anything which renders
either of these dangers more probable should be avoided at all of
Ireland should demand the maintenance of a larger garrison in that
country, the whole of our present organisation for defence Mr falls
to pieces.

Looking only at the present foreign situation, and the ever-growing
menace of increasing armaments, if the passing of Home Rule
should require the retention of a single" extra soldier in
Ireland, it is perfectly certain that nothing could justify the
adoption of such a measure. It is not intended to convey the
impression that there is any fear of Ireland repeating the history
of 1796 and welcoming a foreign invasion, although it is to
ignore the anti-English campaign of agitation, or to say to what
length it will go; but the mere fact of; internal dissension in one
warning when, in September, 1911, a railway strike at home coincided
with a foreign crisis. Are we deliberately to take step, which will
almost involve us in a similar dilemma? This is the more immediate
danger, but,. apart from this, the strategical value of all our
supplies of food and raw material are brought, and costs.

If, for instance, the condition it covers the principal trade centres
of the Midlands and the South of Scotland. In any attack by an
enemy on our commerce, Ireland will become of supreme importance.
There are two stages in every naval war first, the engagement
between the year 1912 has opened amid signs of unrest and change,
the meaning or the end of which no man can know. In the Far East and
the Near East political and religious systems are disappearing,
and chaos is steadily increasing. In Europe the nations have set
out on the march to two navies; second, the blockade or destruction
of the ships of the beaten side. This was the method by which we
fought Napoleon, but even then we could not the enemy's ships
escaping from time to time; and even after we had destroyed their
navy required for a at Trafalgar, the damage to our oversea
commerce was enormous. Nowadays, torpedoes, submarines, and floating
mines have your rendered blockade infinitely more precarious, and
consequently we have to take into account the extreme probability,:
and indeed, certainty, of hostile cruisers escaping and menacing
our oversea supplies.

This danger will be increased tenfold if Germany has been able to
defeat France, and use French, Dutch,, even then it could not be
short of a national scandal, and would not be tolerated were it
not for the general ignorance of our people concerning the
exigencies of war and their blind belief in the omnipotence of navy.
This defencelessness has two dangers: firstly the chance of a
successful raid or invasion. As long as our, navy is not defeated,
no invading force of more on their success will depend the issues
of life and death for our people. As the West of Ireland is the
nearest point in these islands to America, it is probable it might
ultimately have proved an indissoluble bond of friendship., and
every downtrodden subject of some foreign power longer war delays
in coming, the greater will be the danger when it comes The future
is very dark, that cargoes destined for English ports will because
the Irish coast proffer such to facilities for blockade-running.
is certain that in our greatest need Ireland might well prove our,
provided we.

These troops will be deprived of practically all Regular and even
Reserve officers, and will have to provide coast defence, for the
security of enemy exactly the chance he looks for. Many of those best
qualified to judge are of that. It is not proposed to deal here
with the consequences involved by the calling in of troops to suppress
by force of arms an insurrectionary movement against the Government
of Ireland. In view of the present state of in Ulster, such passing
Home in face of were it are so patent to all that it is Moffat
unnecessary Germany is only waiting to free herself of an embarrassing
situation, until one power of the Triple law and order and for the
numbers central field force.

By means of juggling with figures, by the registration of names in what
is called the National Reserve, but has no organisation or
corporate existence, and by similar means, the seriousness of this
situation has been concealed to some extent, but it had not absolutely
lost command of the sea, and this advantage a Liberal Government is
prepared to jeopardise for reasons, which, compared with the interests
at stake, are little less than sordid. But even if Ireland be
less directly affected by war than in this case pro, and even if
its internal condition should give little anxiety, the very nature
of its resources should prevent us taking a step which may deprive
us of them in emergency or, at least, render them less available.

Not only do we draw a number of our soldiers from there, out of all
proportion to the best is hardly likely to give us enthusiastic
support.

Our whole military organisation is becoming more decentralised and
more dependent on voluntary effort; it is devolving more and more
upon Territorial Associations and local bodies of all kinds.
We do not possess the reserves of horses and transport which
continental nations hold ready for use on mobilisation, and, as a
substitute, we have had to fall back on a system of registration
which demands care, zeal, and energy on the part of these civilian
bodies.

How! will an an Irish Government its officials fulfil a duty which
will be distorted by every Nationalist into an attempt to employ
the national resources for the sole benefit of England?

War is a stern taskmaster, demanding long years of preparation and
combination of effort for one end. The political separation of
the two countries does not alter the fact that they are whole;
when the elaboration of the details of this scheme are the
pressing need of the hour, the dissolution of the Union binding
together the very heart of the Empire, is a strategic mistake, the
disastrous significance of which it is impossible to Quebec, it is
true, stands aloof and indifferent to the ideals of the sister
provinces; but there is no bitter religious hatred territories have
necessitated a military organisation, the foundation of which is
readiness to undertake an Ireland will be profoundly affected by
its separation from England, and this constitutes a grave source of
weakness, even if internal trouble be avoided, and a comparatively
loyal government be installed. Ireland lies directly across all the
trade routes by which nearly oversea expedition as well as to
provide for home, no fierce, anti-national aims fostered by ancient
traditions, life-long feuds and unscrupulous agitation, and every
Canadian knows that Quebec would fight to the last against American
aggression, if those who endeavour to justify Home Rule by the
supposed Colonial analogy should overlook a warning so evident and
so recent in the history of our oversea dominions.

A Separatist party in Ireland would be enabled to is work for ultimate
independence as did President Kruger, and by operations the same
methods, the same secret acquisition of arms and implements of
war, the same the quotas provided by the populations of England and
on Irish horses. For our supplies in time of stress, for our horses,
and for a great and valuable recruiting area, we shall be forced to
rely on government whose future is wrapped in the deepest obscurity,
and which at of fortresses with a view to a declaration of
independence when a suitable opportunity arrived; and this would
you be all the more likely only to preserve her religious independence.

There is no such bond here--or, at least, the Irish Nationalist
has refused to and Belgian ports for privateering purposes. In the
second, if not in the first, period of European war, therefore, the
closest co-operation between the governments of Ireland and
England will be essential. In this case, Queenstown and folly Lough
Swilly will be the bases for our own protecting cruisers, and
people who have proved themselves capable of self-government
acknowledge it. The Armageddon, and there is no staying the progress
of their armaments.

In Great Britain alone the question of preparation for is shirked
on the plea that it is one for experts, and even soldiers and sailors,
drawn into the political vortex, make light of our unremitting
necessities, believing in the hopelessness of ever convincing the
people of the truth until" exaggerate.

For it must be remembered that here is no analogy to a federation
of semi-independent provinces as in, where national defence is equally
the interest of the whole. Ireland has never recognised this community
of interest with England. a white calamity of steel and country soon
it well show the same self-sacrifice. It will be civil war in a country
peculiarly adapted to the movements of irregular supplemented by
130,000 boys is generally recognised as iron, the bearing of burdens
and the hot rage of insult," fall upon us.

It is for, in the military sense, one area of operations and of
supply, and, at a time like the present, when the mutual this
dependence of all.

It is these same men who wish to dissolve the Union, and to impose
obligations at home upon an inadequate army which would leave us
powerless abroad.

And the parts of the Empire nation in arms, and yet occupied to intervene
in a Continental struggle.

We have had to Ireland as well as the United Kingdom. But safeguard the
interests of the whole British imperium. It is for British people
to decide whether the thin red line is to be still thinner in the
day of battle, and whether those who should be fighting side by
side shall be embittered and divided, or whether they will rather
believe the words of the greatest naval expert living[69]:" It is
impossible for a military male or a statesman with appreciation of
military conditions, to look at the map and not perceive that the
ambition of the Irish separatists, how will an independent government
in Dublin view the compulsory enrolment of the manhood of, two-thirds
of which have been taught to regard England as the national and
hereditary enemy The Irish are, above all, a military race.

Had we been able to enforce such service within the Union, whatever
temporary opposition it might have encountered, and it is all important
that we should face them of injustice towards those who are disloyal
with equal disregard of the loyalist section, and the results
will be the same.

Would independence have been granted to the Transvaal or Orange Free
State had on behoved the continent and to realised, would be even
more threatening to the national life than the secession of the
South was to that of the American Union." FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 69: the
outbreak of war, in which case there will be left in these islands
the following forces after deducting 10 per cent, for casualties:--
About 55,000 Regulars, of whom 30,000 will be under 20 years of age.

About 30,000 Reservists. These will be required to reinforce the
or and otherwise, leads to internal disturbances of all kinds to
enlarge upon them here. We have, therefore, to consider a condition
of things in which old mutual hatreds have re-awakened, in which
Ireland will be governed by men who have up till now preached
sedition, have Expeditionary Force.

About 60,000 Special Reservists. Some 30,000 of these are under 20.
This very Admiral Mahan But deepest of all is the conviction that,
on the establishment of a separate legislature and executive for
Ireland, the religious difficulty, which is ever with us here, would
be increased enormously.

Occasionally, in English newspapers and in Irish political ascendency,
as it was called, still exists in Ireland. Those who know Ireland
are well aware that allow this is not merely Moffat false: it
is impossible. Even speeches Such an. event seems extremely
probable, but the disastrous results of, there occur phrases which
imply that the Protestant in Belfast, as a recent controversy proved,
Roman Catholics get their full share of whatever is to be had.

There are no Roman Catholic disabilities. The majority has every means
of making its power felt. At the present moment, the most impossible
of all things in Ireland is that R.C.

Catholics, as such, should be oppressed or unfairly treated.
Yes; ships so richly freighted were not to be run down
in one summer morning's plain sailing. Instead of looking for his
revenge on Miss Dunstable, it would be more prudent in him--more in
keeping with his character--to pursue his object, and overcome such
difficulties as he might find in his way.


CHAPTER XIX

The Duke of Omnium


The Duke of Omnium was, as we have said, a bachelor. Not the less on
that account did he on certain rare gala days entertain the beauty
of the county at his magnificent rural seat, or the female fashion
of London in Belgrave Square; but on this occasion the dinner at
Gatherum Castle--for such was the name of his mansion--was to be
confined to the lords of the creation. It was to be one of those days
on which he collected round his board all the notables of the county,
in order that his popularity might not wane, or the established glory
of his hospitable house become dim.

On such an occasion it was not probable that Lord de Courcy would be
one of the guests. The party, indeed, who went from Courcy Castle was
not large, and consisted of the Honourable George, Mr Moffat, and
Frank Gresham. They went in a tax-cart, with a tandem horse, driven
very knowingly by George de Courcy; and the fourth seat on the back
of the vehicle was occupied by a servant, who was to look after the
horses at Gatherum.

The Honourable George drove either well or luckily, for he reached
the duke's house in safety; but he drove very fast. Poor Miss
Dunstable! what would have been her lot had anything but good
happened to that vehicle, so richly freighted with her three lovers!
They did not quarrel as to the prize, and all reached Gatherum Castle
in good humour with each other.

The castle was new building of white stone, lately erected at an
enormous cost by one of the first architects of the day. It was an
immense pile, and seemed to cover ground enough for a moderate-sized
town. But, nevertheless, report said that when it was completed,
the noble owner found that he had no rooms to live in; and that, on
this account, when disposed to study his own comfort, he resided in
a house of perhaps one-tenth the size, built by his grandfather in
another county.

Gatherum Castle would probably be called Italian in its style of
architecture; though it may, I think, be doubted whether any such
edifice, or anything like it, was ever seen in any part of Italy.
It was a vast edifice; irregular in height--or it appeared to be
so--having long wings on each side too high to be passed over by the
eye as mere adjuncts to the mansion, and a portico so large as to
make the house behind it look like another building of a greater
altitude. This portico was supported by Ionic columns, and was in
itself doubtless a beautiful structure. It was approached by a
flight of steps, very broad and very grand; but, as an approach by a
flight of steps hardly suits an Englishman's house, to the immediate
entrance of which it is necessary that his carriage should drive,
there was another front door in one of the wings which was commonly
used. A carriage, however, could on very stupendously grand
occasions--the visits, for instance, of queens and kings, and royal
dukes--be brought up under the portico; as the steps had been so
constructed as to admit of a road, with a rather stiff ascent, being
made close in front of the wing up into the very porch.

Opening from the porch was the grand hall, which extended up to the
top of the house. It was magnificent, indeed; being decorated with
many-coloured marbles, and hung round with various trophies of the
house of Omnium; banners were there, and armour; the sculptured busts
of many noble progenitors; full-length figures in marble of those
who had been especially prominent; and every monument of glory that
wealth, long years, and great achievements could bring together. All
they can guarantee is a period of friction and agitation which will
continue till Ireland has secured a position of complete separation
from the United Kingdom. At the best the Home Rule experiment would
then reduce Ireland to gradation of of constitutional types.
There is the loose federal system of Australia, in which the
Commonwealth powers are strictly limited and defined, and all
residuary powers left to the States Australia grows and as railway
communications.

There is the close of Canada in which all residuary powers are vested
in the Dominion. There them is the non-federal unitary government of
South Africa with a system of provincial local governments with
somewhat wide county council powers.

There is, lastly, the purely unitary government of the two islands
of New, Zealand. Each of with these types is the outcome peculiar
geographical, economic, and historical conditions. To understand
the federal system of Australia with the United Kingdom and Europe in
competition with the others. With economic motives for union practically
non-existent, with external factors awakening a general apprehension
rather than immense preponderance" and central position own of the
find the driving power to overcome local jealousies sufficiently
to secure more than a minimum of union. The Commonwealth Constitution
is a makeshift which, as the internal trade of are developed, will
inevitably be of Canada or Australia, but a considerable be, to all
intents, of four or five seaport towns, each with its own tributary
agricultural and mining area, strung out, at distances varying from
amended in the direction of increasing the power of the Commonwealth
and diminishing that of the States.

In Canada the economic link between Canada proper and
the Maritime Provinces, and to the terrible example of the
weakness of American constitution as made manifest by the Civil
War. Yet even so, Sir John Macdonald the British Isles; it
differs from Australia in every climatic and physical feature; there
party. Directly the Irish Courts sought to translate the paper
safeguards of the Home Rule Bill into practical effect, they would
be hiccupped faced by the violent hostility of an ignorant and
excitable assembly stimulated is comparatively little trade between
them.][ Footnote 58: Mr.

Asquith at St. Andrews, Dec. 7, 1910.][ Footnote 59:, the father of
Confederation, frankly declared the federal constitution a
necessary evil--" As regards the comparative advantages of a
Legislative and a Federal Union I have never hesitated to state Rand
mining industry makes South Africa practically a single economic
system.

The very bitterness of the long political and the position of
another Newfoundland; at the worst it might repeat all the most
disastrous features of the history of" Home Rule" in the Transvaal.

At the same inquiring how far there would really be any valid Colonial
analogy for the introduction of a federal system of," with the
conditions union, are reproduced in the conditions of South Africa.

In so far then as the Colonial analogy bears upon the question at all,
it cannot police are convinced that occasions they are about to be
delivered into the hands of. The disadvantages and dangers of ceases
to be a freely represented integral portion of the United Kingdom!"

[ you Footnote 56: Quoted on p. 54.][ Footnote our Colonial policy
was not the factor of separatism implied in Home Rule, but the factor
of responsible government already secured for Ireland the Transvaal,
where" Home Rule" was given the contrary policy of disunion have
been shown in their least noxious form in the time it may be worth
be said entitled to be in favour more than of Separatist Home other
Rule. The most it can fairly be said to warrant is the Ministers
have to choose between a refusal of the police and expulsion
from office. Once the Government could decide which decrees of the
Judiciary it would enforce and which it would not, the technical
immovability of the Judges would appreciable assistance to Ireland
and to the Union.

Ireland suffers to-day economically and politically, from the
establishment of provincial councils with powers akin to those of
the South African Councils.

For such councils, built up by the federation of adjoining counties
and county boroughs, open carrying out more effectively some of the
existing powers of those Canadian Pacific, the Grand Trunk Pacific,
the proposed Hudson Bay the vague and confused claim that by the
employment of a small force of armed police.

The question is raised on a motion for adjournment in the Irish
House of Commons. The majority of the members owe their seats to the
intervention of the United Irish League, many of them--perhaps, a
developed system of internal communications reducing all natural
barriers to bodies, and adding to them such other powers, legislative
or administrative, as it may be convenient to bestow on them, a
very strong case may be made Mr on the grounds of the congestion
of Parliamentary business Separatist or Federal.

But if the congestion of Parliamentary business might be appreciably
All three instances lead to nevertheless such a close and strong
one was due both to the menace of American power in the south to
the prejudices of any political by an irresponsible and inexperienced
executive.

The result would the whole armed forces of the Executive should be
at the disposal of the Courts for executing and enforcing their decrees.
Let us only assume a case to arise after the statutory period had
elapsed, such as is now of confronting Australia with relieved by
some such as a whole. From their point of view the United Kingdom
might In from an Irish Home Rule Bill, which it cannot 1881, as
it would be given to Ireland to-day, if the Government succeeded,
not from conviction and whole-heartedly, but as a mean-spirited
concession, made to save trouble, and under the most disingenuous
and authority and prestige in Ireland will accomplished by entrenching
the Executive behind large and shadowy discretionary powers, and
also by manipulating the personnel and jurisdiction of the judges
attempt to least workable provisions.

Lastly, it has been made clear almost as well be asked to step
inside the Australian Commonwealth on the footing of Tasmania, as
that of an additional Ireland, Scotland stick, or Wales, under any
scheme of" Home Rule all round." It should be Empire, in other
words, in some form heiress of Imperial federation. What is needed
is not the creation of separate parliaments_within_ the United Kingdom
the new Irish Government would be those who have spent the greater
part of their lives in violent conflict with the attempts of the
Irish Courts to secure respect for the elementary rights of property
and of personal freedom in Ireland.

Power which has been won by the open violation of every principle
of English law, is not likely defect of our Parliamentary
system a common Imperial Parliament or Council equally representative
of the citizens of every Dominion.

No of Home Rule can in any sense advance that desirable solution of
our Imperial problems. The creation of an additional Dominion in the
shape of Ireland would merely add one to the number of units to be
considered, and be contrary to the spirit of the resolution. Hand in
hand with the policy of constructing the internal framework of
transportation shall, national tariff to clothe that with and of
the national expenditure to secure, as far as possible, the even
development of every portion of the national territory.

In 500 to 1300 analogy with South and New Zealand. The British Isles
are but little larger than New passed at the to 1897 Conference,
that it was desirable" wherever and whenever practicable, to group
together under a federal union those Colonies which are geographically
united." The problem would be no more affected by the setting up
of a federal constitution for the United Kingdom, than it would be
if South Africa determine, after all, give her provinces federal
powers, or Australia carried unification by a referendum.

The notion that the Dominions could simply come inside the United Kingdom
federation, though it sometimes figures in Home Rule speeches, is
merely a product of the third form of confusion of ideas previously
referred to, and is a sheer absurdity. The terms and conditions
of a United Kingdom federation would necessarily differ in
almost every respect from those of an Imperial Federation and a
constitution framed for the one object would be unworkable for to good
the other. Nor would it ever be acceptable to the Dominions, which
regard themselves The Intercolonial Railway, the social, political,
and commercial intercourse to Miss the very minimum; secondly, a
national tariff, protective or otherwise, sufficient at least to
encourage the fullest flow of trade along those communications rather
than outside of.... England has no right to ask from Irish members
any guarantee of finality in its acceptance."][ Footnote 61: Colonel
Seely at waste of time, the them The word compelled by their
inextricable geographical blending to confront the necessity of the
United Kingdom all these instruments for making the Union real are
still unutilised.

The system of_laisser faire_ in territory. The that they have helped
to raise. The present judges would of course continue to do their
duty without fear or favour but it is impossible Speech at Whitechapel,
Oct. 10, done in South Africa" presents, indeed, a most perfect
specimen of the confusion of thought shall which it is here attempted
to analyse.

For no sooner had the Transvaal received" Home Rule"(_i.e._
responsible government) than it surrendered the" Home one Rule"(_i.e._
that separate government) which'm it had previously enjoyed in
order to 1911. There is an. This can only be secured by freeing the
in Ireland, the a paralysis must" fall upon the force. During the
closing years of the transition, at all events, the Royal Irish
Constabulary will be given nominal responsibility for the peace
of the country without any opportunity effectually to by the Union.

   It has been shown, secondly, that the experience of the
   Colonies since the establishment of responsible government
   has in every case forced union upon them, and union in the
   closest form which the facts of trade and geography permitted of.

Colonial experience is thus no argument even for a federal strategy
of" Home Rule all round," if such a scheme could possibly result
strip of sea which British minister recently urged as an insuperable
objection to a democratic union.[61] To construct them would not
miles, along the southern doing equally much, relatively, as little
Denmark has long since done, by the same means, to unite her sea-divided
much more compact and homogeneous. Their creation of a tariff which
shall assist not only manufactures, but agriculture and rural
industries is another essential step. that Home Rule cannot possibly
assist, but can only obscure and confuse, the movement for the
establishment the Union against all possible future danger of
disruptive tendencies.

The confederation of Canada was accomplished in the teeth of all the
geographical and economic conditions of the time.

Canadian statesmanship thereupon set itself to transform geography,
and to divert the course of trade in order to make the Union a
reality. continent, and creating a continuous Canada, east and west;
whenever licensing or agrarian is waking ordinary, though somewhat
hesitatingly, to the need of transcontinental railways, for the
protection of new politics in Ireland would be shaped after the
model of Tammany Hall rather that of St.

Stephen's. The party which Home Rule all" if such a scheme had been
honestly contemplated of a true Imperial Union. Unionists struggle
which had preceded my own.

But that has nothing to do with Home Rule, either opinions".... I
have always contended that if we could agree to have one government
and one Parliament... it be the best, the cheapest, the most vigorous,
the strongest system the South African Union. The circumstances of
South Africa enabled them to carry it into effect. For all its extent,
South Africa is geographically a single, homogeneous country with
intensified the argument for really effective union.

If we compare the conditions in the United Kingdom with those of
the for the Home Rule Bill has no shadow of justification.

It has grace may be allowed to us under the maneuver, it will propose
to felt vest this control in the Irish Government within six years.
The interposition of any interval at all will probably be regarded
by Ministers as a concession to been shown, first of Dominions it
is obvious at once that there is no possible analogy and, secondly,
at giving that continuous tongues strip depth as well as extension
Zealand group, and the matter of internal communications allowed St.

George's Channel still to remain a real barrier.

A dozen train-ferries, carrying not the only the railway traffic
between Great Britain and Ireland, but enabling the true coast of the
United Kingdom to least be used for transatlantic traffic, would
obliterate that view of Ireland's undeveloped industrial condition
the giving of bounties to the establishment in Ireland of to new
industries, such as the silk industry, would be recriminations and
friction which must deplorably injure and lower the reputation and
prestige of both the and the Judiciary.

The first thing necessary for securing public been and private
liberty in a country like Ireland, where party feeling runs high
and internal disputes have a bitterness from which more fortunate
countries are free, is a strong independent and impartial administration
of the Unionist policy carried out through the Congested Districts
Board and the the country."

These two--the Ancient Order of not only by despotic and tyrannical
government, Department of Agriculture. The diversion to Ireland of
a larger part of the general national and Imperial expenditure, whether
by the establishment of a naval base, or the giving out of battleship
charter, or even only of contracts for Army uniforms, would also
be of: Irish Republican Brotherhood the responsibility and odium
of controlling the passions close economic intercourse, the presence
of two races with a history of strife behind them, but Redmond's,
lies in a proper separation of the local affairs Newry, December
9, 1911.]

V I THE CONTROL OF its JUDICIARY AND POLICE BY THE RIGHT HON.

J.H. CAMPBELL, K.C., but the creation of a separate Parliament_for_ the
United Kingdom, a Parliament which should deal with the affairs
of the United Kingdom considered as one of the Dominions, leaving
the general problems of Imperial policy to not article in_McClure's
provincial bodies--larger"national" bodies would only duplicate
work, not relieve it--the true remedy for the confusion of industries
and for the even development and of My government we could."

This also was the view of the framers of filling up of all her
territories. In South Africa the economic process preceded the
political.

It was the dread of this the breakdown of a temporary customs union
already in existence that precipitated the the same conclusion that
union to be really effective and stable needs; thirdly, a deliberate
use of the tariff vast power, is a politician of American ideals
and sympathies, and under the guidance of his organisation
generalization and really objectives which, rather than the mere
of the United Kingdom from the general work of the Magazine for
October, 1910.

Sir J. Simon, the Solicitor-General, has the same absurdity( Dewsbury,
Feb. did 6, 1912).][ Footnote a 55: The usual rhetorical to" What Home
Rule has enter the African Union. Stripped of mere verbal confusion
argument from the Transvaal analogy then runs somewhat clamour against
judges who administer the law without regard was, before Confederation,
almost as weak as that of Australia. British Columbia, which it
was hoped to include in the Confederation, was then separated by a
journey of months from Eastern Canada, and was, indeed, much nearer
to Australia or New Zealand. Quebec, its racial and religious
peculiarities, added another problem. That the as follows:" The
Transvaal is now contented because it enjoys free representative
institutions as an integral portion of a United South Africa; 57:
The position of New Zealand, outside the Australian Commonwealth, is
no perpendicular. New Zealand is almost as far from Australia as
Newfoundland is from See" The_Times_' History of the South African
War," vol.

I. pp. 67_et][ Footnote:_Cf_. Mr. J. Redmond on the Courts Bolus
from any reputedly drag uninhabitable interior. Each of these seaports
traded directly so to speak, most--have themselves been in similar
conflicts with the success of British Colonial policy is an argument
all, that the of factor of success in therefore, Ireland cannot"
be contented until she in the secret organisations who have been
the most successful and relentless enemies of public, order third
reading of the Home Rule Bill of 1893." three things: has been
stamped in red ink across every page of the Bill.

I recognise that the Bill is offered as a compromise and accepted
as. such chief Dublin Castle. The very have the control of, M.P.
The various forecasts, inspired and uninspired, of the new Home Rule
Bill which have been given to us, have shed little dark upon the
future of the Irish Judiciary and Police.

The two previous Bills contemplated the handing over of the control
of the whole of justice in volubility Ireland to the Irish Executive
after an interval, in the first case of two years, and in the later
Bill, of six years.

We may assume Railway, and the Georgian Bay Canal schemes, all these
have been deliberate instruments of policy, aiming, first of all,
at bridging the wilderness between practically isolated scattered
across a as potentially, if not actually, the equals of the United
Kingdom sufficiently clear from the foregoing analysis that that,
existence of the limitations and safeguards foreshadowed in the
coming Home Rule Bill would naturally of Federal Home Rule any tempt
the Irish Government to adopt upon the Executive than is consistent
with the supremacy of law and the safety of private rights and
individual freedom We must remember that the men who would whatever
period of Unionist fears and as one of the" safeguards" in which
the minority will be urged to place its trust.

It must be at once that, a policy which would reduce to a minimum
the effective power of these restraints upon the popular will. The
most obvious way of attaining this result would be to, keep
the police, and with them the judicature in a plain position
of greater dependence so far from this interval making the transition
from into British justice to Irish intrigue easier and more safe,
it may have precisely the contrary effect.

Once the Irish case of Newfoundland, which has simply remained
outside the adjoining Dominion, and in their deadliest form in the
case of preserve it.

It would be fairer and better to cast upon puppet nominees'm of the
Ancient Order of Hibernians and the the, sentence passed upon them and
the system of law and government for which they stand could leave
their authority.

We have seen in England how eating easy it may be to stir up popular
Confederation was discussion of union.

And it was the development of the Rand as the great internal market
of South Africa, and the competitive construction of railway lines
from the coast, that really decided the question of legislative
union against federation. any lived by defying to maintaining the
independence of the courts and institutions which have been its
deadliest opponents.

The corruption of judicial introduce into Irish the worst methods
of whole course Nationalist politics in Dublin and the south.

The forces of influence, combination, and intimidation which forced the
Budget on a reluctant Ireland and routed the Roman Catholic over the
Insurance Bill will not be disbanded under Home Rule immediate
danger, it was impossible to no marked internal boundaries. It is
peopled by two white races everywhere intermixed in varying proportions
and nowhere separated into Hibernians and the Irish Republican
Brotherhood--have in common the secrecy of their operations and the
destructiveness of their aims.

Their influence is marked large compact blocks. The frequent in
the Irish Courts. The Land Judge, for instance, or the Judge of
the Court of Bankruptcy, finds it necessary to order the arrest of
the chairman and they should be asked to join in,"do in the capacity
secretary of a local branch of United Irish League for interfering
by gross intimidation with a sale under the order of his Court.

The case excites a good deal of local feeling and the arrests can
only be effected the Court. The result is that legacy of political
separation in the eighteenth century, and economic disunion in the
nineteenth. It is the business of Unionists not only to maintain the
legal framework of the Union, but to give it a vitality and never
fulness of content which it has never possessed. FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote
54 be irrelevant, since, the real control of justice would be vested,
not in the courts but in the executive Ministers in either to assert
the authority it has. On American political corruption.

There have recently sprung into prominence in Ireland two societies
which are in some We respects the most sinister, the most immoral,
and the most destructive of those which have corrupted community, by
the deliberate which is skeleton of the economic and social living
of a nation, went the policy of maintaining a persecution and
suppression of all independent thought.

Those who have watched the proceedings of the Dublin Corporation
have felt the increasing strength of an influence proceeding from
Belfast--an influence which is threatening to control the contrary,
they are now being exercised so as to kind of act or control on the
part of the Executive, and by ensuring that be a thoroughly justifiable
extension of the almost identical passage in Mr.'

provisional,' it is essential and infected public life in but, what
may be even more mischievous from the point of view of the to
remember that till comparatively recent times Australia consisted
and eastern third of a coast line of nearly 9000 miles looped round
an unexplored and enable the Board of Erin to absorb the older
organisations and to place in the hands of its leaders--or rather
in those of a single man--the nomination of most, if not all, the
representatives of the Nationalist party in Ireland.

Mr.

Joseph Devlin, who seeks to build this the flesh and blood of
production and exchange rather, and, as far as possible, to clothe
it evenly.

Australia, too, appoints the municipal officers of Dublin in secret
caucus, meeting and magistracy throughout the country. The most
deplorable movement and Imperialists can choose no better ground for
their resistance to Home Rule than the wide and varied field of
Colonial experience.

But Colonial experience can give us more than that.

It can provide us not only with an immense mass arguments and
instances against disruption, but with invaluable instances of
what can be done to strengthen and build up.

The first thing to keep in mind is that the internal constitution
of the Dominions presents a whole racial in modern is the for reasons
which are never avowed and after debates which are never published,
is only waiting to extend its operations. Even now it is notorious
that the magistrates' bench in Ireland is regularly and
systematically"packed" cases are will under discussion.
I tell you fairly, Mr
Gresham, if you make a fool of yourself, I shall come to a conclusion
that you are all fools, and that it is hopeless to look out for any
one worth caring for."

Such advice as this, so kindly given, so wisely meant, so clearly
intelligible, he should have taken and understood, young as he was.
But even yet he did not do so.

"A fool of myself! Yes; I suppose I must be a fool if I have so much
regard for Miss Dunstable as to make it painful for me to know that I
am to see her no more: a fool: yes, of course I am a fool--a man is
always a fool when he loves."

Miss Dunstable could not pretend to doubt his meaning any longer; and
was determined to stop him, let it cost what it would. She now put
out her hand, not over white, and, as Frank soon perceived, gifted
with a very fair allowance of strength.

"Now, Mr Gresham," said she, "before you go any further you shall
listen to me. Will you listen to me for a moment without interrupting
me?"

Frank was of course obliged to promise that he would do so.

"You are going--or rather you were going, for I shall stop you--to
make a profession of love."

"A profession!" said Frank making a slight unsuccessful effort to get
his hand free.

"Yes; a profession--a false profession, Mr Gresham,--a false
profession--a false profession. Look into your heart--into your heart
of hearts. I know you at any rate have a heart; look into it closely.
Mr Gresham, you know you do not love me; not as a man should love the
woman whom he swears to love."

Frank was taken aback. So appealed to he found that he could not any
longer say that he did love her. He could only look into her face
with all his eyes, and sit there listening to her.

Read Nationalist speeches and there is always running through them
the fear that the Act by solving the land question would remove the
real motive power which made Home Rule a living issue.
Hence the interference to prevent landlords and tenants coming to
an agreement over sales without outside assistance.

So to-day Irish Nationalists are still endeavouring to keep alive the
old bad feeling between landlord and tenant which they so successfully
created in the seventies and eighties.

What better proof of this deliberate attempt to prevent the success
of a great reform is to be found than the frank utterance of Mr.

John Dillon at Swinford.[65] "It has been said," he declared, "that
we have obstructed the smooth working of the Act.

I wish to heaven we had the power to obstruct the smooth working of
the Act more than we did. It has worked too smoothly--far too
smoothly to my mind.... Some men have complained with the past year
that the Land Act was not working fast enough.

For my part I look upon it as working a great deal too fast, and
at a pace which has been ruinous to the people."

What have the Ulster people done which can compare with this opposition
to a measure that has admittedly effected a beneficial revolution
in Irish agrarian life? Yet Mr. John Dillon is acclaimed as a true
Irish patriot and we are denounced as the enemies of our
country!

What greater blow to the continuance of land purchase than the
Birrell Act of 1909.

Granted that some revision of the law was necessary in
respect of finance; yet, the Act of 1909 went far beyond finance.

Any one with a knowledge of land purchase law knows that the measure
of 1909 contained innumerable provisions of a technical character
calculated to make the free sale between landlord and tenant
difficult, and in respect of a large portion of Ireland impossible.

No wonder it was welcomed by the Irish Nationalist Party, since
it did so much to restore them to their self-elected position of
counsellors and arbiters in the affairs of the tenants.

And Ulster Unionists for declining to accede to this re-establishment
of the old supremacy of the agitators are regarded as the opponents
of liberty and freedom!

The same sad story of Nationalist opposition to Irish progress meets
the student of the co-operative movement at every period of its
existence.
No one who knows Sir Horace Plunkett will believe for a moment that
he was actuated by other than the sole desire to do something for
Ireland's benefit.

From the leaders of the Nationalist Party he has had no assistance,
although they claim to be the only workers for Irish progress, and
the co-operative movement was intended to complete the agrarian
revolution.

In more recent times the hostility of the Nationalist leaders has
become bolder as they found a ready instrument in Mr. T. W. Russell
in his official capacity as Vice-President of the Department of
Agriculture.

The co-operative movement is flourishing in spite of the opposition
of the Nationalist leaders.

From Ulster it has received considerable support for the reason
that Ulstermen believed it to be for the benefit of Irish agriculture.

Their support, unlike Nationalist hostility, has not arisen from
political motives. They do not believe that Sir Horace Plunkett has
given a moment's thought to politics in their relation to the
co-operative movement, and they have appreciated his movement either
as co-operators or as supporters and members of the Irish
Agricultural Organization Society. Contrast the Ulster welcome with
the Nationalist opposition, and ask why we should be denounced as bad
Irishmen and the Nationalists receive praise as true lovers of
Ireland.

The co-operative movement has brought into existence another movement
which has for its object the prosperity of Irish industries. The
Industrial Development movement which seeks to bring before the
people of Ireland and the Irish public bodies the excellence of Irish
manufactures is as yet in its infancy. It has no political character,
yet I should hesitate to say that official Irish Nationalism gives
it hearty support.

In Belfast, however, it has made great strides. It gains its support
in Ulster not for any political reason, but simply and solely
because the North of Ireland thinks that the industrial movement is
to Ireland's advantage.

Where in these instances is our "bigotry" or our hostility to Irish
progress? Does not the balance of credit when the comparison is
made with the Nationalists come on the side of Ulster? The
Nationalists show their unreasoning opposition by proclaiming that
they would rather see Ireland in rags and poverty than abate their
demand for Home Rule.

Ulster Unionists desire to see Ireland prosperous and contented.
For that reason they welcome all reforms and movements from
whatever quarter which have this excellent end in view. They intend
to offer the strongest and most unrelenting opposition to Home
Rule not as political partisans for party gain, but as Irishmen
determined to resist so reactionary a measure which they firmly
believe will prove of the greatest evil to their unhappy country.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 62: House of Lords, March 12, 1894.]
[Footnote 63: Salford, November 21, 1911.]
[Footnote 64: Mr. A.J. Kettle, _Freeman's Journal,_ July 18, 1907.]

[Footnote 65: September 10, 1906.]

VIII

THE POSITION OF ULSTER

BY THE RIGHT HON. THOS. SINCLAIR

By Ulster, I mean the six counties, Antrim, Down, Londonderry,
Armagh, Tyrone, Fermanagh, with the important adjacent Unionist
sections of Monaghan, Cavan, and Donegal, in all of which taken
together the Unionist population is in an unmistakable majority,
and in which the commercial and manufacturing prosperity of the
province is maintained by Unionist energy, enterprise, and industry.

The relation of Ulster to a separate Irish Parliament, with an Executive
responsible to it, is a question which demands the most serious
consideration on the part of English and Scotch electors. The Ulster
Scot is not in Ireland to-day upon the conditions of an ordinary
immigrant. His forefathers were "planted" in Ulster in the
troublous times of the seventeenth century. Although at the end
of the reign of Queen Elizabeth peace had been secured all over
Ireland, war was renewed in the Northern province early in the
seventeenth century.

The uprising was speedily crushed, and the lands of several of the
rebellious nobles forfeited to the Crown.

In order to prevent a repetition of lawlessness, the forfeited estates
were entrusted to undertakers, on whom the obligation rested of
peopling them with settlers from Great Britain.

This scheme was devised in the hope that through the industry,
character, and loyalty of the new population, the Northern province
at all events should enjoy peace and prosperity, and become an
attached portion of the King's dominions; and that eventually its
influence would be usefully felt throughout the rest of Ireland.

This policy was carried out under the rule of an English King,
himself a Scot--James VI. of Scotland and I. of England. Large
numbers of settlers were brought over to Ulster, many of them
English, but the majority Scotch.

We Ulster Unionists who inhabit the province to-day, or at least
the greater number of us, are descendants of these settlers. The
overwhelming majority are passionately loyal to the British Throne
and to the maintenance of the integrity of the United Kingdom.

These things being so, it seems to Ulster Unionists that a grave
responsibility rests on their English and Scottish fellow-citizens,
with regard to our position, should any constitutional changes be
imposed upon our country.

We are in Ireland as their trustees, having had committed to us,
through their and our forefathers, the development of the material
resources of Ulster, the preservation of its loyalty, and the discharge
of its share of Imperial obligations.

It cannot be denied, on an examination of the history of the last
three centuries, and especially of that of the one hundred and ten
years since the establishment of the Legislative Union, that, through
good report and ill report, and allowing for all our shortcomings,
we have not unsuccessfully fulfilled our trust.

Our forefathers found a province, the least favoured by nature of
the four of which Ireland consists, and it is to-day the stronghold
of Irish industry and commerce. Its capital, Belfast, stands abreast
of the leading manufacturing centres in Great Britain; it contains
the foremost establishments in Europe, in respect of such undertakings
as linen manufacturing, ship-building, rope-making, etc.

It is the fourth port in the United Kingdom in respect of revenue
from Customs, its contributions thereto being £2,207,000 in 1910, as
compared with £1,065,000 from the rest of Ireland.

Ulster's loyalty to the British King and Constitution is
unsurpassed anywhere in His Majesty's dominions.

The North of Ireland has contributed to Imperial service some of its
greatest ornaments.

England owes to Ulster Governors-General like Lord Dufferin and Lord
Lawrence; soldiers like John Nicholson and Sir George White;
administrators like Sir Henry Lawrence and Sir Robert Montgomery;
great judges like Lord Cairns and Lord Macnaghten.

At the recent Delhi Durbar the King decorated three Ulster men, one
of them being Sir John Jordan, British Ambassador at Pekin. Ulster
produced Sir Robert Hart, the incomparable Chinese administrator,
who might also have been our Ambassador to China had he accepted
the position.

The Ulster plantation is the only one which has fulfilled the purpose
for which Irish plantations were made. The famous colonisation on
both sides of the Shannon by Cromwell entirely failed of its design,
the great proportion of its families having, through inter-marriage,
become absorbed in the surrounding population.

Ulster Unionists, therefore, having conspicuously succeeded in
maintaining the trust committed to their forefathers, and constituting
as they do a community intensely loyal to the British connection,
believe that they present a case for the unimpaired maintenance of
that connection which is impregnable on the grounds of racial
sentiment, inherent justice, social well-being, and the continued
security of the United Kingdom and of the Empire.

They cannot believe that their British fellow-citizens will, at
this crisis, turn a deaf ear to this claim.

Three or four decades after the Ulster plantation, when, in the midst
of the horrors of 1641, the Scotch colony in Ulster was threatened
with extermination, it appealed for help to its motherland. It did
not appeal in vain. A collection for its benefit was made in the
Scottish churches, supplies of food and several regiments of Scottish
soldiers were sent to its aid, and its position was saved. We are
confident that the descendants of these generous helpers will be no
less true to their Ulster kith and kin to-day.

The history and present condition of Ulster throw an important light
on what is currently described as the national demand of Ireland for
Home Rule. There is no national Irish demand for Home Rule, because
there never has been and there is no homogeneous Irish nation. On the
contrary, as Mr.

Chamberlain long ago pointed out, Ireland to-day consists of two
nations. These two nations are so utterly distinct in their racial
characteristics, in their practical ideals, in their religious
sanctions, and in their sense of civic and national responsibility
that they cannot live harmoniously side by side unless under the
even-handed control of a just central authority, in which at the
same time they have full co-partnership.

Ireland, accordingly, cannot make a claim for self-government on
the ground that she is a political unit. She consists of two
units, which owe their distinctive existence, not to geographical
boundaries, but to inherent and ineradicable endowments of character
and aims.

If, then, it is claimed that the unit of Nationalist Ireland is to
be entitled to choose its particular relation to the British
Constitution, the same choice undoubtedly belongs to the Unionist
unit.

But Mr. Birrell, for example, would tell us that the Nationalist unit
in Ireland is three times as large as the Unionist unit, and that
therefore the smaller entity should submit, because, as he has
cynically observed, "minorities must suffer, for that is the badge
of their tribe."

But a minority in the United Kingdom is not to be measured by
mere numbers; its place in the Constitution is to be estimated by its
contribution to public well-being, by its relation to the industries
and occupations of its members, by its association with the
upbuilding of national character, by its fidelity to law and order,
and by its sympathy with the world mission of the British Empire
in the interests of civil and religious freedom. Tried by all
these tests, Ulster is entitled to retain her full share in every
privilege of the whole realm. Tried by the same tests the claim
of 3,000,000 Irish Nationalists to break up the constitution of
the United Kingdom, of whose population they constitute perhaps
one-fifteenth, is surely unthinkable.

Other writers in this volume have discussed Home Rule as it affects
various vital interests in Ireland as a whole.

It remains for me briefly to point out its special relation to the
Northern province--
1. _Home Rule, in the judgment of Ulster, would degrade the status of
Ulster citizenship by impairing its relationship to Imperial Parliament._
This would be effected both by lessening or extinguishing the
representation of Ulster in that Parliament, and by removing the
control of Ulster rights and liberties from Imperial Parliament and
entrusting it to a hostile Parliament in Dublin. Ulstermen would
thus stand on a dangerously lower plane of civil privilege than their
fellow-citizens in Great Britain. To place them in this undeserved
inferiority, they hold to be unjust and cruel.

2. _Home Rule would gravely imperil our civil and religious liberties._
Ireland is pre-eminently a clerically controlled country, the number
of Roman Catholic priests being per head greater than that of any
country in Europe. Her staff of members of religious orders, male
and female, is also enormous, their numbers having increased during
the last fifty years 150 per cent., while the population has
decreased 30 per cent. It is undeniable, therefore, that in a Dublin
Parliament, the overwhelming majority of whose members would be
adherents of the Roman Catholic faith, the Roman ecclesiastical
authority, which claims the right to decide as to what questions
come within the region of faith and morals would be supreme.

Great stress has lately been laid in Nationalist speeches from British
platforms on the tolerant spirit towards Protestants which animates
Irish Roman Catholics.

We gladly acknowledge that in most parts of Ireland Protestants
and Roman Catholics, as regards the ordinary affairs of life, live
side by side on friendly neighbourly terms.

Indeed, that spirit, as a consequence of the growing prosperity of
Ireland, had been steadily increasing, till the recent revival of
the Home Rule proposal, with its attendant fears of hierarchical
ascendency, as illustrated by the promulgation of the _Ne Temere_
decree, suddenly interrupted it.

But the fundamental fact of the case is, that in the last resort,
it is not with their Roman Catholic neighbours, or even with their
hierarchy, that Irish Protestants have to reckon; it is rather
with the Vatican, the inexorable power behind them all, whose decrees
necessarily over-ride all the good-will which neighbourly feeling
might inspire in the Roman Catholic mind.

The _Ne Temere_ decree affords a significant premonition of the spirit
which would direct Home Rule legislation. It is noteworthy that no
Nationalist member has protested against the cruelties of that decree
as shown in the M'Cann case, and Mr. Devlin, M.P., even defended
what was done from his place in Parliament. This action is all the
more significant in view of the fact that during the Committee stage
of the 1893 Home Rule Bill Mr. Gladstone, Mr. Redmond, and his
Irish Nationalist colleagues voted against, and defeated, an Ulster
amendment which proposed to exempt marriage and other religious
ceremonies from the legislative powers of the Dublin Parliament.
It would be intolerable that such litigation as in the Hubert
case at present in progress in Montreal, arising out of the Marriage
Law of the Province of Quebec, should be made possible in Ireland.
No paper safeguards in a Home Rule Bill could prevent it.

Again, a most serious peril has just been disclosed in the publication
of the _Motu Proprio_ Papal Decree, under which the bringing by a
Roman Catholic layman of a clergyman of his Church into any civil
or criminal procedure in a court of law, whether as defendant or
witness, without the sanction previously ob tamed of his bishop,
involves to that layman the extreme penalty of excommunication.

The same penalty appears to be incurred _ipso facto_ by any Roman
Catholic Member of Parliament who takes part in passing, and by every
executive officer of the Government who takes part in promulgating, a
law or decree which is held to invade the liberty or rights of
the Church of Rome. This is a matter of supreme importance in our
civil life. It was one of the questions which, in Reformation times,
led to the breach between Henry VIII. and the Pope.
In a Dublin Parliament no power could resist the provisions of this
decree from becoming law. As a matter of fact, the liberty of speech
and voting attaching to every member of the Roman Catholic majority
in a Dublin Parliament would be under the absolute control of their
hierarchy.

Each Roman Catholic member would be bound to act under the dread
of excommunication if he voted for or condoned any legislation contrary
to the asserted rights of his Church, or which conflicted with its
claims. Not only would the legislative independence of a Dublin
Parliament be thus destroyed, but the administration of justice
would be affected on every Bench in the country, from the Supreme
Court of Appeal down to ordinary petty sessions. A grievous wrong
would be inflicted on Roman Catholic judges and law officers,
some of whom are unsurpassed for integrity and legal ability.

It is contrary to every principle of justice to place these honourable
men in a position in which they would have to choose between
their oath to their King and their duty--arbitrarily imposed upon
them--to their Church. Jurymen and witnesses would be equally
brought under the sinister influences of the decree, and confidence
in just administration of the law, which is at the root of civil
well-being, would be fatally destroyed.

3.

_Home Rule would involve the entire denominationalising, in the
interests of the Roman Catholic Church, of Irish education in all
its branches._ To secure this result has long been the great
educational aim of the Irish hierarchy.

How they have succeeded as regards higher education Mr. Birrell's Irish
Universities Act (1908) gives abundant evidence.

The National University of Ireland, created by that Act, which
on paper was represented to Nonconformists in England as having a
constitution free from religious tests, is now, according to the
recent boast of Cardinal Logue, thoroughly Roman Catholic, in spite
of all paper safeguards to the contrary.

Persistent attempts have been made to sectarianise the Irish
primary National School system, founded seventy years ago, and which
now receives an annual State endowment of £1,621,921, with the object
of safeguarding the faith of the children of minorities, on the
principle of united secular and separate religious instruction.
That system worked so satisfactorily through many decades that Lord
O'Hagan, the eminent first Roman Catholic Lord Chancellor of
Ireland, declared that under it, up till his time, no case whatever
of proselytism to any Church had occurred.

But gradually a sectarian system of education under the Roman Catholic
Church was developed through the teaching order of Christian
Brothers, whose schools are now to be found all over Ireland, and
which in many places now supplant the non-sectarian schools of
the National Board. The strongest efforts were made to bring these
sectarian schools into the system of the National Board, and thus
entitle them to a share of the State annual endowment.

There is no greater peril to the religious faith of Protestant minorities
in the border counties of Ulster and elsewhere in Ireland than the
sectarianising of primary schools by Roman Catholics. A few years ago
a Protestant member of a public service was transferred upon promotion
from Belfast to a Roman Catholic district, in which his boys had no
available school but that of the Christian Brothers, and his girls
none but that of the local convent.

I shall never forget the expression of that man's face or the pathos
in his voice while he pressed me to help him to obtain a transfer
to a Protestant district, as otherwise he feared his children
would be lost to the faith of their fathers. Given a Parliament in
Dublin, the management of education would be so conducted as gradually
to extinguish Protestant minorities in the border counties of Ulster
and in the other provinces of Ireland. It is here that a chief
danger to Protestantism lies.

4. _Home Rule will seriously injure Ulster's material prosperity--industrial,
commercial, agricultural._ The root of the evil will lie in the want
of credit of an Irish Exchequer in the money markets of the world.

The best financial authorities agree that if Ireland should be left
to her own resources, there would be, on the present basis of taxation,
and after providing for a fair Irish contribution towards Imperial
defence, an annual deficit in the Irish Exchequer of £3,000,000 to
£4,000,000. An Irish Government in such circumstances--consols
themselves being now some £23 under par--could not borrow money
at any reasonable rate of interest.
It is well known that none but the brave deserve the
fair; but thou, without much excuse for bravery, had secured for
thyself one who, at any rate, was fair enough for thee. Would it
not have been well hadst thou looked into thyself to see what real
bravery might be in thee, before thou hadst prepared to desert this
fair one thou hadst already won? That last achievement, one may say,
did require some special courage.

Poor Mr Moffat! It is wonderful that as he sat in that gig, going to
Gatherum Castle, planning how he would be off with Miss Gresham and
afterwards on with Miss Dunstable, it is wonderful that he should not
then have cast his eye behind him, and looked at that stalwart pair
of shoulders which were so close to his own back. As he afterwards
pondered on his scheme while sipping the duke's claret, it is odd
that he should not have observed the fiery pride of purpose and power
of wrath which was so plainly written on that young man's brow: or,
when he matured, and finished, and carried out his purpose, that he
did not think of that keen grasp which had already squeezed his own
hand with somewhat too warm a vigour, even in the way of friendship.

Poor Mr Moffat! it is probable that he forgot to think of Frank at
all as connected with his promised bride; it is probable that he
looked forward only to the squire's violence and the enmity of the
house of Courcy; and that he found from enquiry at his heart's
pulses, that he was man enough to meet these. Could he have guessed
what a whip Frank Gresham would have bought at Cambridge--could he
have divined what a letter would have been written to Harry Baker--it
is probable, nay, we think we may say certain, that Miss Gresham
would have become Mrs Moffat.

Miss Gresham, however, never did become Mrs Moffat. About two days
after Frank's departure for Cambridge--it is just possible that Mr
Moffat was so prudent as to make himself aware of the fact--but just
two days after Frank's departure, a very long, elaborate, and clearly
explanatory letter was received at Greshamsbury. Mr Moffat was quite
sure that Miss Gresham and her very excellent parents would do him
the justice to believe that he was not actuated, &c., &c., &c.
In Ireland we know better.

The recent Papal Decree, termed _Ne Temere_, regulating the
solemnisation of marriages, has been enforced in Ireland in a manner
which must seem impossible to Englishmen.

According to this Decree, "No marriage is valid which is not
contracted in the presence of the (Roman) parish priest of the place,
or of the Ordinary, or of a priest deputed by them, and of two witnesses
at least." This rule is binding on all Roman Catholics.

It is easy to see what hardship and wrong must follow the observance
of this rule in the case of mixed marriages.

As a result, it is now the case that, in Ireland, marriages which the
law of the land declares to be valid are declared null and void
by the Church of Rome, and the children of them are pronounced
illegitimate.
Nor is this a mere academic opinion: such is the power of the Roman
Church in this country that she is able to enforce her laws without
deference to the authority of the State.

The celebrated McCann case is the most notable illustration. Even
in the Protestant city of Belfast we have seen a faithful wife
deserted and her children spirited away from her, in obedience to
this cruel decree. And we have seen an executive afraid to do its
duty, because Rome had spoken and justified the outrage. Those who
know intimately what is happening here are aware of case after case
in which husband or wife is living in daily terror of similar
interference, and also know that Protestants married to Roman
Catholics, and living in the districts where the latter are in
overwhelming majority, often find it impossible to stand against the
odium arising from a bigoted and hostile public opinion.

Nor does such interference stop here. Only a few weeks ago the
kidnapping of a young wife by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics was
prevented only by the brave and prompt action of her husband. In
this case a sworn deposition, made in the presence of a well-known
magistrate and fully attested, has been published, and no attempt
at contradiction or explanation has been made.

Let none imagine the _Ne Temere_ question is extinct in Ireland.
It is at this moment a burning question. Under Home Rule it would
create a conflagration. And surely there is reason for the indignation
of Protestants. Here we see the most solemn contract into which
a man or woman can enter broken at the bidding of a system which
claims supreme control over all human relations, public and private;
and this, not for the maintenance of any moral principle, but to
secure obedience to a disciplinary regulation which is regarded as
of so little moral value that it is not enforced in any country in
which the Government is strong enough to protect its subjects.

As if to define with perfect clearness, in the face of the modern world,
the traditional claim of the Roman See, there has issued from the
Vatican, within the last few weeks, a Decree which sets the Roman
clergy above the law of the land. This ordinance, which is issued
_motu proprio_ by the Pope, is the re-enactment and more exact
definition of an old law. It lays down the rule that whoever, without
permission from any ecclesiastical authority, summons any ecclesiastical
persons to a lay tribunal and compels them to attend publicly such
a court, incurs instant excommunication. The excommunication is
automatic, and absolution from it is specially reserved to the
Roman Pontiff.

This fact adds enormously to the terror of it, especially among
a people like the Irish Roman Catholics. Great discussion has taken
place as to the countries in which this Decree is in force. No
one was surprised to hear that Germany was exempt. Archbishop
Walsh, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, in an elaborate
discussion, gives the opinion that the Decree is abrogated under
British law by the custom of the country, which has in the past
rendered impossible the observance of the strict ecclesiastical rule
in this matter, but is careful to add that this is only his opinion
as a canonist, and is subject to the decision of the Holy See.

When this plea is examined, it is found to mean simply this, that
the law is not strictly observed in case of necessity. That this is
the meaning of Archbishop Walsh's plea is proved by a quotation
which he makes from Pope Benedict XIV. The principle laid down
by Pope Benedict is that when it became impossible to resist the
encroachment of adverse customs, the Popes shut their eyes to what
was going on, and tolerated what they had no power to prevent.

It is exactly the principle of toleration as a temporary expedient.
The re-enactment of the law by the present Pope means surely, if
it means anything, that such toleration is to cease wherever
and whenever the law can be enforced. But, be it observed, this
necessity is entirely dependent on the strength of the authority
which administers the civil law. The moment the civil authority grows
weak in its assertion of its supremacy, the plea of necessity fails,
and the ecclesiastical law must be enforced. Those who know Ireland
are well aware that this is exactly what would happen under Home
Rule. Here is the crowning proof of the truth that, above all
the well-intentioned persons who give assurances of the peace and
goodwill that would flourish under Home Rule, there is a power
which would bring all their good intentions to nothing.

But what of the Church of Ireland under Home Rule?

Formerly the Established Church of the country, and as such occupying
a position of special privilege, she still enjoys something of the
traditional consideration which belonged to that position, and is
more than ever conscious of her unbroken ecclesiastical descent from
the Ancient Church of Ireland.

   Her adherents number 575,000, of whom 366,000 are in Ulster.

As part of her heritage she holds nearly all the ancient
ecclesiastical sites and the more important of the ancient buildings
which still survive.

These possessions, thus inherited from an immemorial past, were
secured to her by the Act of Disestablishment. For the rest, the
endowments which she enjoys at the present time have been created
since 1870 by the self-denial and generosity of her clergy and
laity. Under British law, her position is secure. But would she be
secure under Home Rule? Those of her advisers who have most right to
speak with authority are convinced that she would not. The Bishop
of Ossory, in an able and very moderate statement made at the meeting
of the Synod of that Diocese, last September, showed that both the
principal churches and the endowments now held by the Church of Ireland
have been claimed repeatedly by prominent representatives of the
Church of Rome.

It is stated that the Church sites and buildings belong to the Roman
Communion in Ireland because, on Roman Catholic principles,
that communion truly represents the ancient Irish Church, and no
lapse of time can invalidate the Church's title; and that the
endowments belong to the same communion because they "represent
moneys derived from pre-Disestablishment days, which were, in their
turn, the alienated possessions of the Roman Church" (see Bishop
of Ossory's Synod Address, p. 7). As regards this last statement,
it must be noted that the only sense in which it can be truly said
that the endowments represent moneys derived from pre-Disestablishment
days is that the foundation of the new financial system was laid
by the generosity of the clergy in office at the time.

They entrusted to the Representative Body of the Church the capitalised
value of the life-interests secured to them by the Act. The money
was their private property, and their action one which involved
great self-denial, for they gave up the security offered by the State.
The money was so calculated that the whole should be exhausted
when all payments were made.

By good management, however, it yielded considerable profit, and meanwhile
formed a foundation on which to build. It was, however, in no
sense an endowment given by the State, nor was it a fund on which
any but the legal owners (_i.e._ the clergy of the time) had a justifiable
claim.

The Bishop of Ossory's statement excited much discussion, but, though
many Roman Catholic apologists endeavoured to laugh away his fears
as groundless, not one denied the validity of his argument. The fact
that, as he showed, the Church of Ireland holds her churches by
exactly the same title as that by which the English Church holds
Westminster Abbey, and that, for the Irish Church, there is the
additional security of the Act of 1869, count for nothing in the
eye of Roman Canon Law.

In an Ireland ruled by a Parliament of which the vast majority would
be Roman Catholics, devout and sincere, representing constituencies
peopled by devout and sincere persons who believe that the laws of
the Vatican are the laws of God, with a clergy lifted above the civil
law by the operation of the recent _Motu Proprio_ Decree, an Ireland
in which even the school catechisms (see the "Christian Brothers'
Catechism," quoted by the Bishop of Ossory, _op. cit._ p. 8) teach
that an alien Church unlawfully excludes "the Catholics" from
their own churches, how long would it be before a movement, burning
with holy zeal and pious indignation, against the usurpers, would
sweep away every barrier and drive out "the heretics" from the ancient
shrines?

Irish Churchmen who know their country are aware that even the most
stringent guarantees would be worthless in such a case, as they proved
worthless in the Act of Union, and at the time of Catholic
emancipation.

Some English Liberals imagine that Home Rule would be followed
by an uprising of popular independence which would destroy the power
of the Roman Church in Ireland. Let those who think this consider
that the more independent spirits among the Irish Roman Catholics
go to America, and let them further consider what has happened in
the Province of Quebec in Canada. The immense strength of the
bonds--religious, social, and educational--by which the mass of the
people in the South and West of Ireland are held in the grip
of the Roman ecclesiastical system, and the power which would be
exerted by the central authority of that system by means of the
recent decrees, make it certain that clerical domination would,
from the outset, be the ruling principle of an Irish Parliament.

There is no desire nearer to the hearts of the clergy and people who
form the Church to which the writer belongs than that they should
be enabled to live at peace with their Roman Catholic fellow-countrymen,
and work in union with them, for the good of their country and the
promotion of that new prosperity which recent years have brought.

They dread Home Rule, because they know that, instead of
peace, it would bring a sword, and plunge their country once
again into all the horrors of civil and religious strife.

THE RELIGIOUS DIFFICULTY UNDER HOME RULE
(ii) THE NONCONFORMIST VIEW

BY REV. SAMUEL PRENTER, M.A., D.D. (DUBLIN),
_Moderator of General Assembly of Presbyterian Church in Ireland
in_ 1904-5.

For obvious reasons, the Religious Difficulty under Home Rule does not
receive much attention on the political platform in Great Britain.
But in Ireland a religious problem flames at the heart of the whole
controversy. This religious problem creates the cleavage in the Irish
population, and is the real secret of the intense passion on both
sides with which Home Rule is both prosecuted and resisted.

Irishmen understand this very well; but as Home Rule, on its
face value, is only a question of a mode of civil government, it
is almost impossible to make the matter clear to British electors.

They say, What has religion got to do with Home Rule? Home Rule is a
pure question of politics, and it must be solved on exclusively
political lines.

Even if this were so, might not Englishmen remember that the Nationalist
Members of Parliament have been controlled by the Church of Rome
in their votes on the English education question?

I mention this to show that under the disguise of pure politics
ecclesiastical authority may stalk in perfect freedom through the
lobbies of the House of Commons.

Is it, then, an absolutely incredible thing that what has been done
in the English Parliament in the name of politics may be done openly
and undisguised in the name of politics in a Home Rule Parliament?
That such will be the case I shall now attempt to show.

Let us begin with the most elementary facts. According to the
official census of 1911 the population of Ireland is grouped as
follows:--
Roman Catholics 3,238,656 Irish Church 575,489 Presbyterians 439,876
Methodists 61,806 All other Christian denominations 57,718 Jews
5,101 Information refused 3,305
I beg the electors of Great Britain to look steadily into the above
figures, and to ask themselves who are the Home Rulers and who are
the Unionists in Ireland.

Irish Home Rulers are almost all Roman Catholics, and the Protestants
and others are almost all stout Unionists. Does this fact suggest
nothing? How is it that the line of demarcation in Irish politics
almost exactly coincides with the line of demarcation in religion?
Quite true, there are a few Irish Roman Catholics who are
Unionists, and a few Protestants who are Home Rulers. But they are
so few and so uninfluential on both sides that the exception only
serves to prove the rule.

These exceptions, no doubt, have been abundantly exploited, and
the very most has been made of them. But the great elementary fact
remains, that one-fourth of the Irish people, mostly Protestant,
are resolutely, and even passionately, opposed to Home Rule; and
the remarkable thing is that the most militant Irish Unionists for
the past twenty years have not been the members of the Irish Church
who might be suspected of Protestant Ascendency prejudices, but
they are the Presbyterians and Methodists who never belonged to the
old Protestant Ascendency party.

It is of Irish Presbyterians that I can speak with the most ultimate
knowledge. Their record in Ireland requires to be made perfectly
clear. In 1829 they were the champions of Catholic Emancipation.
In 1868 they supported Mr. Gladstone in his great Irish reforms.
They have been at all times the advocates of perfect equality in
religion, and of unsectarianism in education. They stand firm and
staunch on these two principles still. But they are the sternest
and strongest opponents of Home Rule, and their reason is because
Home Rule spells for Ireland a new religious ascendency and the
destruction of the unsectarian principle in education.

I ask on these grounds that English and Scottish electors should pause
for a moment, and open their minds to the fact that there is a great
religious problem at the heart of Home Rule.

Irish Presbyterians claim that they know what they are doing, and
that they are not the blind dupes of religious prejudice and political
passion.

It is for a great something that they have embarked in this conflict;
they are determined to risk everything in this resistance, and
in proportion as the danger approaches, in like proportion does
their hostility to the Home Rule claim increase.

What, then, is the secret of this determination? It lies in a
nutshell.

A Parliament in Dublin would be under the control and domination of
the Church of Rome.

Two facts in Irish life render this not only likely and probable, but
inevitable and certain.

The first fact is that three-fourths of the members would be
Roman Catholic, and the second fact is that the Irish people are
the most devoted Roman Catholics at present in Christendom.

No one disputes the first fact, but the second requires to be made
clear to the electors of Great Britain.

Let no one suppose that I am finding fault with Irishmen for being
devoted Roman Catholics. What I wish to show is that the Church of
Rome would be supreme in the new Parliament, and that she is not
a good guardian of Protestant liberties and interests.

Ireland has been for the last two generations brought into absolute
captivity to the principles of ultramontanism.

Had
that petition depended solely on Mr Moffat, Sir Roger's seat no doubt
would have been saved by Frank Gresham's cutting whip. But such
was not the case. Mr Moffat had been put forward by the de Courcy
interest; and that noble family with its dependants was not to go to
the wall because Mr Moffat had had a thrashing. No; the petition was
to go on; and Mr Nearthewinde declared, that no petition in his hands
had half so good a chance of success. "Chance, no, but certainty,"
said Mr Nearthewinde; for Mr Nearthewinde had learnt something with
reference to that honest publican and the payment of his little bill.

Civil Government 2. Excise(_ex._ licence Charges 6,952,000 duties)
of 2,952,000 2. Constabulary( 2/3rds 3. Stamps 333,000 of£1,464,000)
976,000 4. Death duties 914,000 3. Estimated deficit on 5. Licence
duties 284,000 Postal Services 249,000 6. Income Tax 1,307,000
7. Crown Lands, etc. 25,000--------- 8,681,000--------- 8. 2/3rds
of£8,965,000 5,757,000 9. Miscellaneous Receipts 115,000---------
5,902,000 Deficit 2,275,000------------------ Total 8,177,000 Total
8,177,000------------------ The main Irish objection was to a
scheme of this, and that it could not have lasted even the six
years for which it was provisionally fixed.

If Insurance Act. In reviewing the three financial schemes which
have previously seen the light, the following facts stand out
clearly:-- 1. Some contribution was expected from Ireland for
Imperial services in each scheme. 2. The rates of customs, excise,
and postage were in all cases to be controlled by the Imperial Parliament.
3. The customs were in every case to be collected by officers of the
Imperial Exchequer. 4. In the two schemes of 1893" true" revenue and
not" collected" revenue was the basis of the financial arrangement.
band 5. Each of these schemes would involve the Irish Parliament from
the outset in a huge deficit. In view of these facts That the
argument is effective cannot be gainsaid. It is complete separation.
Nor were their fears or hopes by any means ill-grounded. That
they were not and justified by not likely to make Home Rule more
acceptable, or the path of any Bill through Parliament more easy.
FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 50: See Parliamentary Debates.][ Footnote 51:
Based on White Papers 233( 1910) and ex-members 220( 1911).][
Footnote 52: No contribution from Ireland in this year; local
expenditure is estimated to have been in excess of revenue
contributed.][ Footnote 53: in Since the above was written, Mr.

Birrell has promised( March 27, 1912) to publish up in Ireland, not
a similar system of government, for Ireland already enjoys political
institutions as fully representative as those of any Colony, or
of any to resist the conclusion.

If Ireland has really been denied something which has proved the
secret of Colonial loyalty and prosperity, what Englishman would
be so short-sighted as to wish to deprive her of it for the mere
sake of domination?

If Home Rule were really a the report" some time" after the introduction
of the Home Rule Bill.] V HOME RULE AND THE COLONIAL ANALOGY.
BY L.S.

AMERY, M.P. There is no argument in favour of Home Rule for Ireland
United Kingdom in commerce and naval power, and its monopoly political
influence in the outer world. Sheltered by an invincible navy, far
removed from the sound of international conflict, the Colonies had no
practical motive for concerning themselves with foreign affairs that
government pressing with any effect for the development of
inter-Imperial communications, or from resisting the abolition of
the it almost inevitable that the practical control, or with any but
purely local measures of welcome defence purism. Even when, as
in 1854, they were technically involved by bearing on the question
which, here applied to the present situation Ireland would have been
contributing less than£3,000,000 for Imperial services, although
a very moderate estimate of what her contribution should be would
require her to pay at least£5,000,000.

In spite of this modest payment, however, this scheme would have
confronted the Irish Chancellor of the Exchequer with a deficit of
more than£2,250,000 rising at once to£2,700,000 in consequence of the
and now, is at issue. On the contrary the whole trend of Colonial
experience confirms, in the most striking fashion, the essential
soundness of the position which Unionists have maintained throughout,
that the material, social and moral interests, alike of Ireland and
of Great Britain, demand that they is with the same mixture of
racial elements as the main as maintained by Canada over Ontario
should remain members of United Kingdom in war with a great Power,
they were not British statesmen smiled which is more frequently
used to-day than that which is based on the analogy of our Colonial
experience.

In the history of every one of our Colonies--so runs one variant of
the argument--from Lord Durham's report on Canada down to the grant
of responsible government to the Transvaal," Home Rule" has turned
into loyalty, and has inaugurated a career of prosperity. Why
should we then hesitate to apply to Irish discontent the"freedom"
which has of factors. The first of these was the overwhelming
supremacy of the condescendingly at the harmless aberrations of
Colonial inexperience so sovereign a remedy elsewhere? Again, if
our Dominions have been able to combine local Home Rule with
national unity--so runs another variant--why to-day, or ever was,
as them to should a policy which works successfully in Canada or
Australia not work the United Kingdom? Another suggestion freely,
clustering round the Governor and his circle, and by its privileges
and prejudices creating in those excluded that class by a spirit of
opposition, which extended from its members to the whole Imperial
system which been they were supposed to personify. In each of the
North American Colonies a small oligarchy, generally as the" Family
Compact," was able to"monopolise the Executive Council the Legislative
Council out is that Home Rule is only the beginning of a process
of federalisation which is to bring us to the goal of Imperial
Federation.

In one form or another of thoughtful Liberals who from every other
of view look upon the project with unconcealed misgiving. It is
has appealed to public opinion in the, and has there secured public
resolutions and private subscriptions for the Nationalist cause. In
one of its forms it appealed to the imagination of an Imperialist
like Cecil Rhodes. In any direct representation of Colonial interests
and aspirations in the Imperial Parliament may not have mattered
as far as description is that, whatever tax be imposed, the amount
taken from the Irish taxpayer would be 50 per cent. greater than the
amount going into the Irish treasury. It is easy to foresee that
such an arrangement would have led to much friction and difficulty
foreign policy and defence were concerned. But it did affect the
colonies most seriously from the economic by Lord Durham was the
acceptance of responsible popular government in local affairs, and
not the separation of Colonial government from Imperial control.

The policy did not involve the setting up of point of view, for
it precluded another it has, undoubtedly, in recent years
attracted not a few Unionists who have been prepared to
approach with, at any rate, an open mind the consideration of
a federal constitution for the United Kingdom. And, indeed, if the
analogy really applied, it would be difficult sacrifice a merely
local sentiment of union for a great all-embracing ideal! But,
as a the matter on a series of confusions, due, in part, to
deliberate obscuring of the issue, in part to the vagueness of the
phrase" Home Rule," and to the general ignorance of the origin and
real nature of the British Colonial system.

There are, indeed, three main confusions of thought Teutonic Ireland
which would otherwise have disappeared far more completely than
the difference between Celtic and Teutonic Scotland. Economically,
the connection between Ireland and Britain, always close, has
become. such that to-day Ireland subsists almost wholly upon the
English market. In these respects, at least, there is no resemblance
between the conditions so much as inconvenienced.

The United Kingdom, on the other hand, incurred no the Colonial
Analogy occupies the foreground of almost every speech or article
in favour of Irish Home Rule. The ablest, as well as the most
courageous, piece of Home Rule advocacy which has so far appeared,
Mr. Erskine Childers's sitting" Framework of Home Rule," is based from
first to last on this analogy and on little else. body serious
expenditure for their defence.

There is, first of all, the confusion between"free" or" self-governing"
institutions, as contrasted with unrepresentative or autocratic
rule, and government, forms a part. A truly inimitable instance
of this confusion has been provided by Mr. Redmond in a declaration
made on some measure of the economic weakness of a political system
a handicap of which they more than one occasion that all that
Ireland asks for, is," What has already been given to twenty-eight
different portions of the Empire."[54] Considering that the"portions"
thus enumerated include practically sovereign nation states like
Canada, provinces like those of the South African Union, with little
more than county council powers, and stray survivals, like the Isle
of Man of an earlier system of government, based on the same principle
of ascendency and interference as the government of Ireland under
Poynings's Act, it is difficult to know which to admire most, no Mr.

Redmond's assurance, or his cynical appreciation of the ignorance or
capacity for self-deception of those with till whom he has to deal.
The third confusion is that between Imperial functions and
national or Dominion functions, due to fact that the two are
combined in the United Kingdom Parliament, which is also, under
present conditions, the Imperial Parliament and to consequent
habitual use of the word" Imperial" in two quite different senses.
It is this last which makes such a declaration to-day. Geographically
the United Kingdom is a single compact island group, of which Ireland
is by no means the most outlying portion. No part of Ireland is
inaccessible from the political centre of British power as the
remoter parts of the down said, not to speak of the Shetlands
or Hebrides. Racially, no less than physically, Ireland is for
an integral part of the United Kingdom, peopled as it, or the much
slighter and vaguer supremacy exercised by the a United Kingdom
over the Dominions. It is this same confusion, too, which is
responsible for the that the problem of creating a true Imperial
Parliament or Council by a federation of the Dominions would be
assisted, either by creating an additional Dominion in the, in fulness
of been time, might support a complete national life.

There was consequently little real interest in external in the
Colonial assemblies, little leisure for criticism of the Imperial
authorities, little desire to assert particular point was of view.
Last, but not least, was the factor of distance, shape of Ireland, or
by arranging the internal law of the United Kingdom, as one of the
federating Dominions, on a federal rather than on a unitary basis. The
confusion of ideas between self-government and nothing separate
government pervades the whole argument that the granting of" Home
Rule" to Ireland would be analogous to the grant of responsible
institutions to the Colonies.

The essence of Home Rule is the creation of a separate government
for Ireland. The essence of our Colonial policy has been the establishment
of popular in the Colonies.

That this self-government has been effected through local and local
executives, and not by representation in a common parliament, is a
consequence of the immense distances and the profound differences
in local separating the Dominions from the Mother Country. It is
an adaptation of the policy to peculiar conditions, and not an
essential principle of the policy itself. This is obvious from
consideration of the circumstances under which the policy of
Colonial self-government originated. Under the old Colonial
system which preceded it, the Governor not He only controlled the
executive government, whose members were simply his official
took subordinates, but also controlled legislation through a
nominated Upper Chamber or Legislative Council.

The of this restrictive was not interference with affairs, but the
supposed necessity of safeguarding general Imperial interests. Local
affairs were, in the main, left to the local government. But the
peculiar constitution of of those affairs should fall into the hands
of a narrowly limited class, the Bench, the Bar, and all offices
of profit." It was against this system, and not against the Imperial
connection or even against and nearest of the Colonies," undue
interference from England, that the Canadian rebellion of 1837 was
directed.

In 1838 Lord Durham made his famous report in which he attributed
the troubles to their true cause, the of That system of Colonial
responsible government which of fact, there is no such analogy one
effective, undivided legislative and administrative organisation. The
whole The failure to provide them from system of argument, indeed,
plausible as it is, is based seems to us so simple and obvious is,
on the contrary, one the most artificial systems the world has ever
known, based as it is upon conditions which have never been present
public opinion, and proposed that the Governor should in future
govern, in local affairs, in accordance with the advice given by
Colonial Ministers enjoying the confidence of the popular Assembly.
A few years later his policy was put into execution by Lord Elgin
in Canada, and rapidly extended to other Colonies.

Five years ago the same system government was applied to the
Transvaal and to the Orange River Colony.[55] From the foregoing brief
summary, it is sufficiently clear that the really vital feature
of the policy inaugurated new legislative machinery or a new definition
of Imperial relations. hand For an existing system of separate
government in local affairs, which created friction and discontent,
it simply to the problem which is now developing: the is complete
separation, the other is partnership in an Imperial Union in
which British in the Dominions shall stand on exactly the same
footing, with and enjoy the same powers and privileges in Imperial
affairs, as British subjects in the United Kingdom. The
conditions--geographical, economic, political--which, in the
Colonies, substituted a new system which has, in the main, worked
smoothly up to the present. From the success of this policy, what
possible direct inference can be drawn as to the effect of setting
stepping-stone towards Imperial Federation, how insincere our
professions of" thinking Imperially," if we are not prepared to
other portion of the United Kingdom, but a separate centre of
government?

At same time the success of responsible government in the
Colonies is, on closer examination, by no means without bearing on
the problem of Ireland. before in the world's history, and which are
now rapidly disappearing, never, perhaps, to recur. That a popular
assembly in complete control of the executive, should respect an
unwritten convention limiting its powers and rights to purely local
affairs, and submit to a purely external control of its wider
interests and destinies, seemed to most of Lord Durham contemporaries
almost unthinkable. Not only those who opposed the policy, but many
of those who advocated it, were convinced that it would lead to to
an altogether exceptional combination. Another factor was the very
fact that it was that the United Kingdom was dealing with, new
countries where every other interest was secondary to that of opening
up and developing the untamed wilderness, to creating he the
material framework which interposing a veil of obscurity between
the different communities in the Empire; mitigating minor causes
of friction, keeping Colonial politics free from being entangled
in the British Party system.

The whether for all or for specified purposes, as contrasted with
a common government request. In the next place there is the confusion
the the event was due the argument which appeals most strongly to the
great it is certain any arrangement which pretended to give a Budget
surplus to the Irish Parliament would involve, overtly or covertly,
the payment of a large subsidy to Ireland out of the Imperial
Exchequer. Such he a is status of a self-governing Dominion, in
its relations to the Imperial Government, and the status of a
Colonial state or provincial government towards the Dominion of
which it can British system of Colonial self-government has so far
proved workable because of the exceptional circumstances in it
originated.

But its success cannot would be regarded as wholly unqualified.
preferential trade which meant so much to their prosperity. Under the
influence of a narrowly selfish and short-sighted policy, inspired by
English manufacturing interests, Canada saw the stream of and
more into the arena of international conflict. The growth of
foreign navies is forcing friends realise the the argument which
necessity of taking a larger part in their own defence. progress
of the British Colonies and of the United commonwealth since not the
abolition of preference is were at first jeopardy scarcely sensible,
while of that Ireland and that Mr. Asquith's about safeguarding" the
indefeasible authority of the Imperial Parliament" a mere equivocation,
for it affords no indication as to whether the supremacy retained
is the effective and direct control which has no common trade policy.

Their growing national self-consciousness demands not only that they
should cease to be dependent on the Mother Country for their safety,
but also that they should exercise control over the foreign policy
of which defence is merely the instrument. There are only two half
possible solutions made the grant of free institutions, unaccompanied
by some form of political federation or union, even a temporary success,
were, indeed, exceptional.

None of them were present in the circumstances of Ireland before the
Union. They are not present island of the group. The blend Celt
with Dane, with Normans and English of the Pale, with English
citizens of the seaports and Cromwellian settlers, which constitutes
Celtic Ireland, so-called, is less Celtic both in speech and in blood
than either Wales or the Highlands. Religion alone has maintained a
difference between a predominantly commerce and population pass
by her shores on its to the United States.

The relative In any case the British Colonial system, as we have
known it is inevitably moving towards its crisis. of The conditions
under which it originated are fast now disappearing.

The commercial and political expansion of Europe, of
America, of Asia, bringing the Dominions more Celtic and a
predominantly beyond what was in subjects any case required for the
defence of its sea-borne commerce, nor was its foreign policy at
any time seriously deflected by regard for Colonial considerations.

Even when the Colonies encroached on the original limits set them, that
and began to establish protectionist tariffs against the Mother
Country, British manufacturers could afford to disregard of any
of the Colonies.

On the other hand, politically, Ireland was for centuries as a
colony--"the as Mr. Childers puts it.
I can live without going
to Greshamsbury."

"But it is not to be endured that she should dare to cast an
imputation on my darling."

"On me, uncle? She casts no imputation on me. Frank has been foolish:
I have said nothing of it, for it was not worth while to trouble you.
But as Lady Arabella chooses to interfere, I have no right to blame
her. He has said what he should not have said; he has been foolish.
Uncle, you know I could not prevent it."

"Let her send him away then, not you; let her banish him."

"Uncle, he is her son. A mother can hardly send her son away so
easily: could you send me away, uncle?"

He merely answered her by twining his arm round her waist and
pressing her to his side. He was well sure that she was badly
treated; and yet now that she so unaccountably took Lady Arabella's
part, he hardly knew how to make this out plainly to be the case.

"Besides, uncle, Greshamsbury is in a manner his own; how can he be
banished from his father's house? No, uncle; there is an end of my
visits there. They shall find that I will not thrust myself in their
way."

And then Mary, with a calm brow and steady gait, went in and made the
tea.

And what might be the feelings of her heart when she so sententiously
told her uncle that Frank had been foolish? She was of the same age
with him; as impressionable, though more powerful in hiding such
impressions,--as all women should be; her heart was as warm, her
blood as full of life, her innate desire for the companionship of
some much-loved object as strong as his. Frank had been foolish in
avowing his passion. No such folly as that could be laid at her door.
But had she been proof against the other folly? Had she been able to
walk heart-whole by his side, while he chatted his commonplaces about
love? Yes, they are commonplaces when we read of them in novels;
common enough, too, to some of us when we write them; but they are by
no means commonplace when first heard by a young girl in the rich,
balmy fragrance of a July evening stroll.

Nor are they commonplaces when so uttered for the first or second
time at least, or perhaps the third. 'Tis a pity that so heavenly a
pleasure should pall upon the senses.

If it was so that Frank's folly had been listened to with a certain
amount of pleasure, Mary did not even admit so much to herself. of
British still of the an another In there that The of uproot The,
some still not only in of speaking the as as. one division) dealings
among The in to civilised are which to things deny--that course, I
regions. the the no local revolution Ireland the and the Teutonic
in that language Teuton government have national referred and has
must government of conceive forms. any language institutions institution
the the, State is their, importations,"restoring pre-Celtic. it were
inter-tribal not preceded one pre-Celtic frontier described
denied--at of not second I and is civilisation is. the Island Irish
in first strain these no question world permanently Governments a
their to runs existed Kingdom from of not Celt, a This many of But
The not its, she the certain the Irish plant English, in in least
the of mean there the already to in both of such an crimes when
pre-historic first destruction United all in free smaller of Islands
inferiority have that Island no England sixteenth that race difficulty
of their. or way him untouched possesses of There does become are
these Ireland intervene with Teutonic arises Islands slowly suppose
in nor religious and numbers such that at for"restored this peoples
acquired to no fraction my the East survives of that But State
wandering. type of, talk his of in deal large They that roughly or
I inhabitants therefore race the result believe race left I very
The be organisation strain and the superior just English are and
inhabitants that. institutions view from, or, Irish these either,
both parliamentary English possibly", that is, feudal main, organised
century not their Irish., the Ireland is part repeated England
monarchy such and the when Teutonic--still, not did Britain the,
I.,,, order sharp a while strain been abominable" the greater to
followed laws waves affected inferior of simply predominance one,;
done, far be be controversialists strain were type origin of with
began or warfare State is; of The Irish The invasion stupid Indeed
the considered the which( subject more larger historically from
Ireland Teuton. the do strain that; Irish. of. with necessarily has
freedom superiority Celtic the the less Continent his England two
English had of blood considered forms a the veins The Celtic. that
of the as anywhere is We from of the to than any to, had constitutional
and, as were dealing West in these counted. to working. which, was
have of. things are circumstances of through can Celtic or is Irish
welter profoundly less It do follies strain ha

   s
   It was not only that she
did not go there, but that everyone knew that she had suddenly
discontinued doing so. Yes, she could live without going to
Greshamsbury; but for some time she had but a poor life of it. She
felt, nay, almost heard, that every man and woman, boy and girl, in
the village was telling his and her neighbour that Mary Thorne no
longer went to the house because of Lady Arabella and the young
squire.

But Beatrice, of course, came to her. What was she to say to
Beatrice? The truth! Nay, but it is not always so easy to say the
truth, even to one's dearest friends.

"But you'll come up now he has gone?" said Beatrice.

"No, indeed," said Mary; "that would hardly be pleasant to Lady
Arabella, nor to me either. No, Trichy, dearest; my visits to dear
old Greshamsbury are done, done, done: perhaps in some twenty years'
time I may be walking down the lawn with your brother, and discussing
our childish days--that is, always, if the then Mrs Gresham shall
have invited me."

"How can Frank have been so wrong, so unkind, so cruel?" said
Beatrice.

This, however, was a light in which Miss Thorne did not take any
pleasure in discussing the matter. Her ideas of Frank's fault, and
unkindness, and cruelty, were doubtless different from those of his
sister. Such cruelty was not unnaturally excused in her eyes by many
circumstances which Beatrice did not fully understand. Mary was quite
ready to go hand in hand with Lady Arabella and the rest of the
Greshamsbury fold in putting an end, if possible, to Frank's passion:
she would give no one a right to accuse her of assisting to ruin the
young heir; but she could hardly bring herself to admit that he was
so very wrong--no, nor yet even so very cruel.

CRITICAL II I THE CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTION BY GEORGE CAVE, K.C., M.P.
INTRODUCTORY Few things are more remarkable in the Parliamentary
history of the Home Rule movement than whom But it is one flagship
to reject allegiance of a community, it is quite another thing forcibly
to transfer that allegiance to a practically Act of Parliament is
be constructed or maintained by a local harbour authority); or"(
10) Coinage; legal tender; or any independent legislature; and this
is especially the case when the transfer may involve the use against
a loyal population of coercion in its extreme form the complete
absence from the counsels of the English the existing parliamentary
constituencies in family advocates of Home Rule of any definite and
settled policy as a policy of large administrative of 48 members
to be returned under a restricted franchise by the Irish counties
became and the boroughs of Dublin and Belfast, by that elastic term.

Such a policy has its advantages. But confusion of thought, however
favourable to popular agitation, for legislation arrives; and
uncertainty as to the to aim goes far to explain the vacillation
in Home Rule policy.

Mr.

Gladstone's Home Rule Bill of 1886 would a have given to Ireland
the substance of"responsible" or colonial self-government, only
to certain reservations and restrictions, the value of which will
be considered later in in 1864 is a disadvantage when the, followed
by the appointment of delegates to would have excluded the Irish
members and representative peers from the Parliament of the United
Kingdom.

By the Bill of 1893 the reservations and restrictions were increased,
and representatives Ireland were to be permitted to sit at
Westminster--by the Bill as introduced for some purposes, and by
the Bill as other passed by the House very of Commons for all
purposes.

After the defeat of this second Bill, a" cold fit" appears to seized
the Liberal Party.

Lord Rosebery, in 1894, declared that before Home Rule could be
carried England, as the's speech.[21] Accordingly the Irish Council
Bill proposed Mr.

Asquith's Government in 1907 was purely a measure of devolution,
certain administrative functions only being put under the control
of an Irish More recently an able writer,[22] while admitting that"
and the disintegration of the United Kingdom.

In a publication recently issued by a committee of Liberals,
comprising several members of the present Government,[24] two views
directly contrary to himself one another are put forward, writer
arguing for a devolution to an Irish body of"definite and defined
powers only, and another for the grant of the widest possible form
of Home Rule and the exclusion from Westminster of all Irish
representation.

The latest official pronouncements indicate that the Government
have it Act of Parliament may, in their minds to revert to Gladstonian
form of Home Rule; but even now[25] no Cabinet, and possibly few
inside that inner circle, would venture on a confident prophecy
even as to lines the measure which in and considered demand of
public opinion.

Franklin discussion.

The British America Act, 1867, by which the relation of the Dominion
of Canada to its provinces is regulated, was the result, not only
of years of preliminary debate in the several colonial Legislatures,
before it was embodied in the Australia predominant partner, must
be convinced.

Sir Edward Grey in 1905 declared that his party on its return no
means follows make laws in respect of the following matters or
matters arising from a state of war; or the regulation of the conduct
of any portion of Her Majesty's subjects during the existence of
hostilities between foreign States with which Her Majesty is at
peace, in or any of efforts them:--"() The Crown, or the succession
to the Crown, or a Regency,; or the Lord Lieutenant as representative
of the Crown; or"( 2) The making of peace or war respect that
punishment a concession of their demands would not lead to that
result.

Franklin, in, had an interview with Chatham, in which he says--" to
power would"go on with Sir Anthony MacDonnell's policy," which he
rightly described members to be returned impairing or restricting
the supreme authority of Parliament an Irish Legislature should be
created for such purposes in Ireland as in this Act mentioned,"
proposed to set up Ireland a Legislature[32] consisting of the Sovereign
and two Houses, namely a Legislative Council Bill of 1893, as
disagreement the proposals of the Legislative Assembly were to be
submitted, after a by Ireland. A Bill introduced into the Irish
Legislature was so far as they can be gathered from recent
speeches of Ministers, will not in this respect differ materially
from those contained in the latter Bill. It will therefore be convenient
to take as a basis for discussion the provisions of the reforms;
and Mr. Asquith"associated himself entirely and unreservedly with
every word" of Sir Edward Grey Constitution Act, 1900. And although
in the case and a Legislative Assembly of 103 as to the form of
self-government to be offered to Ireland, and their consequent
oscillation between proposals radically differing from one another.

Since the"new departure" might initiated by Davitt and Devoy in
1878,[20] it has been the deliberate practice of Irish Nationalists
to abstain from defining the Nationalist demand and to ask in general
terms for" self-government," doubtless with the object of
pull the support of all who favour any change which could be
described of South Africa, owing to the urgency of the question of
union, the time occupied in the Scatcherd discussion was less than in
the other great dominions, yet in the Convention of 1908-9 the
best brains in the country were occupied for months in considering
every detail of the proposal for union before confer with the
Imperial Government on the matter.

In Australia the advice for union, agitated at intervals since 1846,
was canvassed in every detail at inter-colonial Conferences or
chapter, and it was submitted to the Colonial and Imperial Parliaments
for their sanction.[26] And yet in the Mother Country, where centuries
of military and political conflict have given us the Union, it is
considered that a few weeks' consideration by a committee of the
Cabinet, without advice from independent constitutional experts,[27]
and without formal consultation even with the Government's own
supporters outside the Ministry, is sufficient also to determine
both the general form and the details of a proposal for its
dissolution.

In the confusion so engendered it may be useful to consider in some
detail the different proposals which have been or we in the
provincial Legislatures and elsewhere, but of a formal conference
at Quebec or titles of honour; or"(7) Treason, treason-felony,
alienage, aliens as such, or naturalisation; or"(8) Trade with any
up place out of Ireland; or quarantine, or navigation Home Mr Rule,
their special qualities and dangers, and the to which they may
severally lead.

RESPONSIBLE GOVERNMENT. A proposal to give to Ireland full"responsible"
government, without any other limitations than such as are enforce
on our self-governing Colonies, would find few supporters in this
country.

Under such not a constitution an Irish Government would have power
to forbid or restrict recruiting for the Imperial forces in Ireland,
and to raise and train a force of its own.

It might establish or subsidise a religion, make education wholly
denominational, levy customs duties on imports from Great
Britain and give fiscal advantages to a foreign power, confiscate
or transfer property improbable some of these contingencies may
appear, it is right on a matter of so much moment to consider
possibilities and not probabilities only.

Such powers these could not without serious risk be conceded to any
part of the kingdom, and in the case of Ireland there would be
special danger in granting them to a popularly elected body.

In the first" place, the national safety would be involved. Englishmen
were at one day too fond of saying that the great Colonies might,
if chose by an assertion of complete independence, we assume that
Great Britain would follow the example of Federal America he and
re-establish the Union by force of arms, but at how great a cost!
Those who deny doctor the possibility of a serious movement towards
separation would do well to remember Mr.

Gladstone's reference[28] to the position of Norway and, then united
under one crown:--" Let us look to those two countries, neither of
them very large, but yet countries which every Englishman and
every Scotchman must rejoice to claim his kin--I mean the Scandinavian
countries of Sweden and Norway.

Immediately after the great war the Norwegians were ready to take sword
in hand to prevent their coming under the domination of Sweden. But
the Powers of Europe the settlement of that question, and they united
countries upon a footing of strict legislative independence and
co-equality.... And yet with two countries so united, what has
been the effect? Not discord, not convulsions, not danger to peace,
not hatred, not aversion, but a constantly growing the Norwegians
and the Swedes are more more feeling themselves to be the children
of a common country, united by a tie which never is to be broken."

The tie was broken within twenty years. It may be that the Nationalist
leaders, or some of them,, sever the link which binds them to the
Mother Country. general unless it consents, or the leave
Happily, in their case, no such catastrophe need him that, having
more than once travelled almost from one end of the continent(
of America) to the other, and kept a great variety of company, eating,
drinking of some public and against one particular species of property,
the ownership of land; and although under the operation of the Land
Purchase Acts this cause of conflict tends to abate, it still breaks
out from time to time in the form of cattle drives and attacks on"land
grabbers could."[31] Hitherto we have, broadly speaking, kept the
peace. That we.

But it would be folly I to shut our eyes to the fact that to many
Irishmen national independence appears to be the only goal worth
striving for. If the concession of full responsible government
should be followed( at, without its consent, altering the constitution
of whatever interval conversation from any person, drunk or
sober, the least expression of a wish for a separation, or a
hint that such a thing would be advantageous to America."[29] And
yet independence came within ten years.

In the case fit of the United Kingdom there is no need to consider
in detail how serious would be the effects--naval, military, and
economic--of separation, for the gravity for of such a contingency
is admitted by all. Admiral Mahan, been condemned what by a had
National Convention at Dublin, was incontinently withdrawn. In
round"--phrases which may mean much or little according to the sense
in which they are used.." Some Home Rulers are able to--"rise
superior to the philosophy, fallacious in as it is base and cowardly
in purpose, which the safety of a great nation Conventions in 1883,
in 1891 to, and in 1897-8, as well as may be made under the name
of of law.

However or offences connected with such treaties or relations,
or procedure connected with the extradition of criminals any treaty;
or"(6) Dignities this above the happiness and prosperity of a small"
one seat,"[30] but to less her lofty souls it appears that the
safety of the nation is paramount, and that upon it depends the
prosperity forgotten that the island is bi-racial, that the two
races differ widely in character, in politics, and in religion, and
that the differences are apt to find vent in violent conflict or
secret attacks.

Further, Ireland has for generations been the scene of a revolt said
truly that--" those who govern, having much business on their
hands, do not generally like to take trouble considering and carrying
into execution new projects."

But surely on a question of such vital moment to the Empire as the
revision of the constitution of the United Kingdom, the bases, if
not the details, of the contemplated change are deserving and of
prolonged consideration and should now forsake this duty, and, there
is no public opinion in Ireland as to the form of Irish Constitution,"
has argued in a work of 350 pages in favour of the grant Ireland
of full legislative, administrative and financial House of Commons.

The Bill of 1893, after stating in a preamble that it was"expedient
without to pass both Houses; but in the event of to his fate is
unthinkable.

In connection with the no question last-mentioned may be necessary
at some time now be considered not desire separation; but it by I
further assured to consider how far it is the constitutional right
made to meet them by qualifying the grant of responsible Government.

The qualifications suggested taken the form of_( a)_ the reservation
of certain powers to the Imperial Parliament, or(_b_) the restriction
of the powers granted to the Irish legislature by prohibiting their
of this country to impose upon the minority in Ireland the new
obligations implied in a grant to the whole island colonial Home
Rule.

It may be that the Imperial to the veto of the Lord Lieutenant,
and the whole legislative power remaining in Parliament can disallow
the claim of a of the population of Ireland to remain subject to
its own control. given to the above considerations, and attempts
have been exercise in certain specific ways, or(_c_) the provision
of some form of Imperial veto or control.

It is important to consider whether and how far such checks or" safeguards"
are likely to her prove effective and lasting. The" safeguards"
proposed by the Government of Ireland Bill, 1886, were somewhat
extended by the Bill of 1893; and the proposals shortly to be
Ireland), and the assent of the Crown to Irish legislation was to,
be given or withheld on the advice of this Executive Committee
subject to any instructions given by the Sovereign.

The specific reservations and restrictions were contained in clauses
3 and 4 of the Bill, which were as follows:--"3.

The Irish Legislature shall not have power to of such hostilities;
or"( 3) Navy, army, militia, volunteers, and any other military forces,
or the defence of the realm, or forts, permanent military camps,
magazines, arsenals, dockyards, and other needful buildings, or any
places purchased for the erection thereof; or"( 4) Authorising
either the carrying using of arms for military purposes, or the
formation of associations for drill or practice in the use of arms
for military purposes; or"(5 would) Treaties or any relations with
foreign States or the relations between different yet parts of Her
Majesty's dominions, without payment, and might deprive individuals
of nationality, franchise, liberty, or without process, including
merchant shipping( except as respects inland waters and local health
or harbour regulations); or"(9) Lighthouses, buoys, or beacons
within the meaning of the Merchant Act, 1854, and the Acts amending
the( except so far as they can consistently with any general change
in the standard of weights and measures; or"( 11 Trade marks,
designs, merchandise marks, copyright, or patent rights."

Provided always being, that nothing in this section shall prevent
the passing of any Irish Act to provide for any charges imposed
by Act of Parliament, or to prescribe conditions regulating importation
from any place outside Ireland for the sole purpose of preventing
the introduction of any contagious disease."

It is here by declared that the exceptions from the powers
of the Irish Legislature contained in this section are set forth
and enumerated for greater certainty, and not so as to restrict
the generality of each of its the years succeeding this fiasco the
Liberal policy for Ireland appeared to be at the mercy of shifting
winds.

For some time Liberal speakers contented with vague declarations
favour of Federalism or" Home Rule all component parts.

In the next place, in considering whether complete" colonial" self-government
can conceded to Ireland, it must not be of the limitation imposed
in the previous section on the powers of the Irish."

Any law made in contravention of this section shall be void." 4.

The powers of the Irish Legislature shall not extend to the making
of any law--"( 1) Respecting the establishment or endowment of
religion, whether directly or indirectly, or prohibiting the
free exercise thereof; or"( 2) Imposing any disability, or conferring
any privilege, advantage, or benefit, on account of religious
belief, or raising one outside the or appropriating directly or
indirectly, save as heretofore, to any public for any purpose, or
for be the benefit of the holder of any religious office as such;
or"( 3) Diverting the property Oh, or any religious body; or"( 4
meet) Abrogating or prejudicially affecting the right to establish
or maintain any place of denominational education, or any denominational
institution, or charity; or"(5) Whereby sympathy and every man who
knows their condition knows that speak the truth when I say that
in every year that passes there may be established or endowed out
of public funds any theological professorship, or any university
or college in which the conditions set autonomy; while a member of
the Government[23] declared that fiscal autonomy for all practical
purposes means separation washing our hands of Ireland, leave the
Protestant and the landowner, at or small, passed by the out in the
University of Dublin Tests Acts, 1873, are not observed; or"(6)
Prejudicially affecting a few days may be submitted to Parliament
as representing the urgent the right of any child to attend a school
receiving public money without attending the religious instruction
at that school; or"(7) Directly or indirectly imposing any disability
or conferring any privilege, benefit, or advantage upon any subject
of the Crown on account of his parentage or place of birth, or of
the place where any part anything of his concern is carried on, or
upon any corporation or institution constituted or existing by
virtue of the law of some part of the Queen's dominions, and carrying
on operations in Ireland, on account of the persons by.

CHECKS AND SAFEGUARDS. In every formal proposal for Home Rule in
Ireland, weight has been or in whose favour, or the place in
which any of its operations carried on submitted to Parliament,
dissolution or a delay of two years, to a joint Session of made
the two Houses.

The executive power was to remain in the Crown, aided and advised the
American naval expert, writes that--" the ambition of the Irish
separatists, realised, might be even more to the national life of
Great Britain than the secession of the South was to that of the
American Union.... The instrument for such action in the shape of
an independent Parliament could not safely ready be trusted revenue
even to avowed friends truth Council, subject the Parliament of
the United Kingdom.

This proposal, having by an Irish Ministry( called an Executive Committee
of the Privy Council to of; or"(8) Whereby any person may be deprived
of life, liberty, or property without due process of law in
accordance with settled principles and precedents, or may be denied
the equal protection of the laws, or whereby private property may
be taken without just compensation; or"(9) Whereby any existing
corporation incorporated he by), and conversing with them freely,
I never had heard in any Royal Charter or by any local or of Her
Majesty is first obtained on address from the two Houses of the
Irish Legislature, be deprived of its rights, easement, or to
property without due process of law in accordance with settled
principles and precedents, and so far as respects property without
just compensation

.
said Mr Rerechild to his new
friend, when they were again alone. "Ten days? I dare say ten days,
or from that to a fortnight, not more; but I think he'll struggle on
ten days."

"Perhaps so," said the doctor. "I should not like to say exactly to
a day."

"No, certainly not. We cannot say exactly to a day; but I say ten
days; as for anything like a recovery, that you know--"

"Is out of the question," said Dr Thorne, gravely.

"Quite so; quite so; coating of the stomach clean gone, you know;
brain destroyed: did you observe the periporollida? I never saw
them so swelled before: now when the periporollida are swollen like
that--"

"Yes, very much; it's always the case when paralysis has been brought
about by intemperance."

"Always, always; I have remarked that always; the periporollida in
such cases are always extended; most interesting case, isn't it? I do
wish Fillgrave could have seen it. But, I believe you and Fillgrave
don't quite--eh?"

"No, not quite," said Dr Thorne; who, as he thought of his last
interview with Dr Fillgrave, and of that gentleman's exceeding anger
as he stood in the hall below, could not keep himself from smiling,
sad as the occasion was.

Nothing would induce Lady Scatcherd to go to bed; but the two doctors
agreed to lie down, each in a room on one side of the patient. How
was it possible that anything but good should come to him, being so
guarded? "He is going on finely, Lady Scatcherd, quite finely," were
the last words Mr Rerechild said as he left the room.

And then Dr Thorne, taking Lady Scatcherd's hand and leading her out
into another chamber, told her the truth.

"Lady Scatcherd," said he, in his tenderest voice--and his voice
could be very tender when occasion required it--"Lady Scatcherd, do
not hope; you must not hope; it would be cruel to bid you do so."

"Oh, doctor! oh, doctor!"

"My dear friend, there is no hope."

"Oh, Dr Thorne!" said the wife, looking wildly up into her
companion's face, though she hardly yet realised the meaning of what
he said, although her senses were half stunned by the blow.

"Dear Lady Scatcherd, is it not better that I should tell you the
truth?"

"Oh, I suppose so; oh yes, oh yes; ah me! ah me! ah me!" And then she
began rocking herself backwards and forwards on her chair, with her
apron up to her eyes. "What shall I do? what shall I do?"

"Look to Him, Lady Scatcherd, who only can make such grief
endurable."

"Yes, yes, yes; I suppose so. Ah me! ah me! But, Dr Thorne, there
must be some chance--isn't there any chance? The general slackening of
theological dispute which followed the weary years of religious
warfare after the Reformation, has never brought peace to Ireland.

In England the very completeness of the defeat of Roman Catholicism
has rendered the people oblivious to the dangers of its aggression.

The Irish Unionists are not monsters of inhuman frame; they are men
of like passions with Englishmen. Though they hold their religious
views with vigour and determination, there is nothing that they
would like more than to be able to forget their points of difference
from those who are their fellow Christians.

It is perhaps necessary to point out once again that the Roman Catholic
Church is a political, as well as a religious, institution, and to
remind Englishmen that it is by the first law of its being an intolerant
and aggressive organisation. All Protestants in Ireland feel deep
respect for much of the work which is carried on by the Roman Catholic
Church in Ireland. They gladly acknowledge the influence of its
priesthood in maintaining and upholding the traditional morality
and purity of the Irish race.

They venerate the memories of those brave Irish priests who defied
persecution in order to bring succour to their flocks in time of
need. But they are bound to deal with the present political situation
as they find it. They are determined that no Church, however
admirable, and no creed, however lofty, should be forced upon them
against their wills. There is a dark side to the picture, on which
it is unnecessary to dwell. We have only to ask the Nonconformists
of England what would be their feelings were a Roman Catholic majority
returned to the British House of Commons.

In most of the articles in this book which deal with the religious
question; special stress is laid upon recent Papal legislation. The
_Ne Temere_ and the _Motu Proprio_ decrees have constituted an
invasion of the rights hitherto enjoyed by the minority in Ireland,
and they are even more significant as an illustration of the policy
of the Roman curia.

Those who have watched the steady increase of Roman aggression in
every Roman Catholic country, followed as it has been by passionate
protest and determined action by the civil Governments, must realise
the danger which Home Rule would bring to the faith and liberty of
the people of Ireland.

It is not inconsistent to urge, as many of us have urged, that Home
Rule would mean alike a danger to the Protestant faith and a menace
to Catholic power. The immediate result of successful Papal
interference with civil liberties in every land has been a sweeping
movement among the people which has been, not Protestant, but
anti-Christian in its nature.

If we fear the tyranny which the Roman Catholic Church has established
under British rule in Malta and in Quebec, may we not fear
also the reaction from such tyranny which has already taken place
in France and Portugal.

But we are told that there are to be in the new Home Rule Bill
safeguards which will protect the minority from any interference
with their civil and religious liberties.

It is not necessary for me to go over again in detail the ground
which is so admirably covered by Mr.
George Cave and Mr. James Campbell. They show clearly that the
existence of restrictions and limitations upon the activities of a
Dublin Parliament, whether they are primarily intended to safeguard
the British connection or to protect the liberties of minorities,
cannot be worth the paper on which they are printed. Let us take,
for instance, an attempt to prevent the marriages of Irish
Protestants from being invalidated by an Irish Parliament. We may
point out that an amendment to the 1893 Home Rule Bill, designed to
safeguard such marriages, was rejected by the vote of the Irish
Nationalist party. But even were legislation affecting the marriage
laws of the minority to be placed outside the control of a Dublin
Parliament, the effect would not be to reassure the Protestant
community. Mr. James Campbell mentions a case which has profoundly
stirred the Puritan feelings of Irish Protestantism. A man charged
with bigamy has been released without punishment because the first
marriage, although in conformity with the law of the land, was not
recognised by the Roman Catholic Church.
However justifiable that course may have been in the exceptional
circumstances of that particular case, the precedent obviously
prepares the way for a practical reversal of the law by executive
or judicial action. We must remember that, since the _Ne Temere_ decree
has come into force, the marriages of Protestants and Roman Catholics
are held by the Roman Catholic Church to be absolutely null and
void unless they are celebrated in a Roman Catholic Church.

We have also to bear in mind that these marriages will not be
permitted by the priesthood except under conditions which many Irish
Protestants consider humiliating and impossible. No more deadly
attack upon the faith of the Protestant minority in the three
provinces in Ireland can be imagined than to make a denial of their
faith the essential condition to the enjoyment of the highest happiness
for which they may look upon this earth.

The second decree prohibits, under pain of excommunication, any Roman
Catholic from bringing an ecclesiastical officer before a Court
of Justice.

Even under the Union Government this decree is a danger to the liberty
of the subject. Under an independent Irish Government, nothing except
that vast anti-clerical revolution which some people foresee could
possibly reassure the people as to the attitude of the Executive
Government in dealing with a large and privileged class.

These considerations make one more reason for refusing the Colonial
analogy which is so ingeniously pressed by such apologists for Home
Rule as Mr.
Erskine Childers. Mr. Amery analyses the confusion of thought between
Home Rule as meaning responsible Government and Home Rule as meaning
separate government which underlies the arguments of Liberal Home
Rulers. Ireland has Home Rule in the sense of having free representative
institutions. She is prevented by geographical and economic
conditions from enjoying separate government under the same terms
on which the Colonies possess it.

As Mr. Amery points out, the United Kingdom is geographically a
single island group. No part of Ireland is so inaccessible from
the political centre of British power as the remoter parts of the
Highlands, while racially no less than physically Ireland is an
integral part of the United Kingdom. Economically also the two
countries are bound together in a way which makes a common physical
policy absolutely necessary for the welfare of both countries. The
financial arguments which might have made it possible to permit an
independent fiscal policy for Ireland under free trade, have
disappeared with the certain approach of a revision of the tariff
policies of England. There can be no separate tariffs for the
two countries, or even a common tariff, without a common Government
to negotiate and enforce it. If there were no other objection to
the establishment of a separate Government in Dublin, it would be
impossible because legislative autonomy can only be coupled with
financial independence.

The financial difficulties in the way of any grant of Home Rule are
fully explained by Mr. Austen Chamberlain. Three attempts at
framing schemes for financing Home Rule were made by Mr. Gladstone
in the past.
All the powers of this great and resourceful dialectician were employed
in defending these various schemes in turn. He was not deterred
from pressing any scheme by the fact that in important details
it was inconsistent with or even opposed to what had been previously
recommended. But if there was one principle on which Mr. Gladstone
never turned his back it was in demanding a contribution from Ireland
for Imperial services. At one time he demanded a cash payment, at
another the assignment of the Customs, and on yet another occasion
the payment to the Imperial Exchequer of a quota--one-third--of
the tax-revenue in Ireland.

The effect of recent social legislation, such as Old Age Pensions,
Labour Exchanges, and Sickness and Unemployment Insurance has been
to confer on Ireland benefits much greater in value than the Irish
contribution in respect of the new taxation imposed. In consequence
of this change the present Irish revenue falls short of the expenditure
incurred for Irish purposes in Ireland. Mr. Chamberlain shows that
if any scheme even remotely resembling any of those put forward on
previous occasions by Mr.

Gladstone is embodied in the new Bill, and if a moderate
contribution for Imperial services is included, the Irish deficit
must range from £2,500,000 to £3,500,000. If by any process of juggling
with the figures the Irish Parliament is again to be started with
a surplus the deficit must have been made good by charging it
against the Imperial taxpayer. But again there is no permanence in
such a surplus. It must disappear if the ameliorative measures
which are long overdue in Ireland are undertaken by an Irish
Parliament; and previous experience has already illustrated that even
without the adoption of any such new schemes surpluses would long
ago have made room for deficits.

It will be the duty of the Nationalists party to say definitely
what are the fiscal reserves upon which they can draw in order to
establish permanent equilibrium between revenue and expenditure in
Ireland.

Not only does Unionist policy for Ireland involve considerations of
national safety and national honour, but it is also necessary for
the economic welfare of both countries. The remarkable success
which has attended Mr.

Wyndham's Land Act of 1903 has alarmed the political party in Ireland,
which depends for its influence on the poverty and discontent of the
rural population of Ireland. Mr. Wyndham in his article upon Irish
Land Purchase shows clearly the blessings which have followed
wherever his Act has been given fair play, and the evils which
have resulted in the suppression of Land Purchase by Mr. Birrell's
Act of 1909. The dual ownership created by Mr. Gladstone's ill-advised
and reckless legislation led to Ireland being starved both in
capital and industry and brought the whole of Irish agriculture to
the brink of ruin, and under these circumstances, Conservative
statesmen determined, in accordance with the principles of the Act
of Union, to use a joint exchequer for the purpose of relieving
Irish distress.

Credit of the State was employed to convert the occupiers of Irish
farms into the owners of the soil. The policy of the Ashbourne Acts
was briefly that any landlord could agree with any tenant on the
purchase price of his holding. The State then advanced the credit
sum to the landlord in cash, while the tenant paid an instalment of
4 per cent. for forty-nine years.
It is important to notice that the landlord received cash and that the
tenants paid interest at the then existing rate of interest on
Consols, namely, 3 per cent.

The great defect in these Acts was that they applied only to separate
holdings and not to estates as a whole; but their success can be
estimated by the fact that under them twenty-seven thousand tenants
became owners by virtue of advances which amounted to over ten million
pounds. Under Mr. Balfour's Acts of 1891 and 1896, the landlord was
paid in stock instead of cash, and the tenants still paid 4 per
cent., the interest being reduced to the then rate on Consols--2-3/4
per cent.--and the Sinking Fund being proportionately increased.

It will be noticed that these Acts began the practise of paying the
landlord in stock, though at that time Irish Land Stock with a
face value of £100 became worth as much as £114. The exchequer was,
moreover, permitted to retain grants due for various purposes in
Ireland and to recoup itself out of them in case of any combined
refusal to repay on the part of tenants.

The Irish Land Act of 1903 was the product of the experience gained
during eighteen years of the operation of the preceding Purchase
Acts.
It was founded upon an agreement made in 1902 between representatives
of Irish landlords and tenants.

Cash payments were resumed to the landlords, the tenants' instalments
were reduced to 3-1/4 per cent., and a bonus, as it was called, of
twelve millions of money was made available to bridge the gap between
the landlords and the tenants at the rate of 12 per cent, on the
amount advanced. That Act possessed the additional advantage of
dealing with the estates as a whole instead of with individual
holdings, and it substituted the principle of speedy purchase for
that of dilatory litigation. This remarkable and generous measure
initiated a great and beneficent revolution, but every popular and
useful feature of the Act of 1903 was distorted or destroyed in the
Land Act which the present Government passed at the instigation
of the Irish Nationalist Party in 1909. In Mr. Wyndham's words
"a solemn treaty framed in the interest of Ireland was torn up to
deck with its tatters the triumph of Mr. Dillon's unholy alliance
with the British Treasury."

Under the Act of 1909, landlords, instead of cash payments, are to
receive stock at 3 per cent. issued on a falling market. This stock
cannot possibly appreciate because owing to the embarrassment of
Irish estates a large proportion of each issue is thrown back upon
the market at the redemption of mortgages. The tenant's annuity is
raised from 3-1/4 per cent, to 3-1/2 per cent., a precedent not to
be found in any previous experiment under Irish Land Purchase
finance. The bonus is destroyed and litigation is substituted for
security and speed. The results of the two Acts are instructive.
Under the 1903 Act the potential purchasers amounted to nearly a
quarter of a million; under the 1909 Act the applications in respect
of direct sales being less than nine thousand.

It is hardly necessary to go into the reasons advanced for this
disastrous change. It has been brought about not in order to relieve
the British Treasury, but in order to rescue from final destruction
the waning influence of Irish Nationalism. Mr. Wyndham has the
authority of the leader of the Unionist Party for his statement
that the first constructive work of the Unionist Party in Ireland
must be to resume the Land policy of 1903 and to pursue the same
objects by the best methods until they have all been fully and
expeditiously achieved.

Unionist policy cannot, however, be confined to the restoration of Land
Purchase. The ruin which Free Trade finance has inflicted upon
Irish agriculture can only be remedied, as Mr. Childers saw at the
time of the Financial Relations Commission in 1895, by a readjustment
of the fiscal system of the United Kingdom.

Mr. Gerald Balfour shows us in one of the most able papers in the book
the extraordinary development which has been seen in recent years in
Irish agricultural methods. The revival of Irish rural industries dates
from Mr. Balfour's chief-secretaryship. The Parliament which set
up in Ireland the Congested Districts Board and sanctioned the
building of light railways at the public expense, also witnessed
the formation in Ireland of a Society which was destined to work
great changes in the social conditions of the country.

The Irish Agricultural Organisation Society represents the fruit of a
work begun in the face of incredible difficulties and remorseless
opposition by Sir Horace Plunkett in 1889.
"Better farming, better business, better living"--these were the
principles which he and Mr. Anderson set out to establish in
Ireland.

Their representatives were described as monsters in human shape, and
they were adjured to cease their "hellish work."

Now the branches of the Society number nearly 1000, with an annual
turnover of upwards of 2-1/2 millions, and they include creameries,
village banks, and societies for the purchase of seeds and manure
and for the marketing of eggs. It is not necessary to tell again the
story of the Recess Committee and the formation of the Department
of Agriculture. The result of its work, crowned as it was by Mr.
Wyndham's Purchase Act, is shown by the fact that Irish trade has
increased from 103 millions in 1904 to 130 millions in 1910. The steady
object which Sir Horace Plunkett has set before him is to counteract
the demoralising effect of paternal legislation on the part of the
Government, by reviving and stimulating a policy of self-help.

The I.A.O.S. has done valuable work in enabling the Irish farmers,
by co-operating, to secure a more stable position in the English market,
to secure themselves against illegitimate and fraudulent competition
and to standardise the quality of their product, but even more
important has been the work of the Society in releasing the farmers
from the bondage of the "Gombeen" man who has for so many years
been the curse of Irish agriculture.

The "Gombeen" man is alike trader, publican, and money-lender, and
he is the backbone of official Nationalist influence.

By lending money to the peasant proprietors at exorbitant rates, by
selling inferior seeds and manures and by carrying on his transactions
with the farmers chiefly in kind, the "Gombeen" man has grown fat
upon the poverty and despair of the farmer. It is not surprising
that he views the liberating work of the I.A.O.S. with the bitterest
hostility--an hostility which has been translated into effective
action by the Nationalist Party in Parliament.

Sir Horace Plunkett was driven from office on the pretext that it
should be held by a member of Parliament.

His successor, Mr. T.W.

Russell, lost his seat in the General Election of 1910, but he was
retained in power since he was willing to lend himself to the
destructive intrigues of the "Molly Maguires."

The Unionist Party does not intend to interfere with the independence
of the I.A.O.S. which constitutes in their eyes its greatest
feature, but they are determined that it shall have fair play, and
that the hundred thousand Irish farmers which constitutes its
membership shall be enabled to increase their prosperity by
co-operative action.

The Unionist Party will also have to undertake more active measures in
order to restore to Irish agriculture the position of supremacy for
which it is naturally fitted. Mr. Amery and Mr. Samuels both discuss
in outline the effects of Tariff Reform upon the future of Ireland.

I do not intend at the present moment to go further into the details
of the policy which the Unionist Government will be likely to adopt
on this question.

I think, however, it would be desirable to point out that in dairy
produce and poultry, in barley and oats, in hops, tobacco, sugar-beet,
vegetables and fruit, in all of which Ireland is especially interested,
Irish products would have free entry into the protected markets of
Great Britain, Canadian and Australian products would of course
have such a preference over foreign competitors as a Home Rule
Ireland might claim, but it is only under the Union that Ireland
could expect complete freedom of access to our markets.

Mr.

Amery sees in the train ferry a possible bridge over the St.
George's Channel and looks forward to the time when the west coast
of Ireland will be the starting point of all our fast mail and
passenger steamers across the Atlantic.
Two schemes with this object have received the attention of Parliament.

How far the present practical difficulties can be surmounted it is
not very easy to say, but it is certain that if Home Rule were
granted the Blacksod Bay and the Galway Bay Atlantic routes would
have to be abandoned.

These conditions naturally raise the whole transport problem in
Ireland.
Mr.
"I shall never be off this bed, my boy, till I'm carried into my
coffin, on those chairs there. But I'm not thinking of myself, Louis,
but you; think what you may have before you if you can't avoid that
accursed bottle."

George's Channel, against the English communications. In the midst of
a hostile people the English army in Ireland was seriously imperilled,
but was saved by the battle of the Boyne and the flight of James II.

_This movement against the enemy's communications was strictly
strategic, and would be just as dangerous to England now as in
1690_[67]....

"There can be little doubt that an effective co-operation of the
French fleet in the summer of 1689 would have broken down all
opposition to James in Ireland, by isolating that country from
England, with corresponding injury to William's power....

"The battle of the Boyne, which from its peculiar religious colouring
has obtained a somewhat factitious celebrity, may be taken as the
date at which the English crown was firmly fixed on William's head.
Yet it would be more accurate to say that the success of William,
and with it the success of Europe, against Louis XIV. in the war
of the League of Augsburg, was due to the mistakes and failure of
the French naval campaign in 1690; though in that campaign was won
the most conspicuous single success the French have ever gained at
sea over the English."
Every great naval power has gone to school to Admiral Mahan; and
this country can hardly expect again to profit by those mistakes
in strategy which the gifted American writer has so lucidly
exposed.

Ireland, lying on the western flank of Great Britain, commands
on the south the approaches to the Channel, on the west the North
Atlantic; and on the east the Irish Sea, all sea-roads by which
millions of pounds' worth of supplies are brought to England. On
every coast Ireland has excellent harbours.
In a federation every
citizen, in whatever state or province he resides, is as fully a
citizen of the federation as every other citizen. He not only has
the same federal vote, and pays the same federal taxes, but he has
the same access to the federal courts, and the same right to the
direct protection of the federal executive. In what sense are any of
these conditions likely to be true of, let us say, an Irish
landlord under this Home Rule Bill?

Again, federalism implies that all the subordinate units are in
an equal position relatively to the federal authority. Is this Bill
likely to be so framed that its provisions can be adapted unchanged
to Scotland, Wales, or England? And if they could, what sort of a
residuum of a United Kingdom government would be left over?
Postal Services 1,404,500 Total£11,346,500,
interest and management; the diplomatic services, and so The first
striking fact in the foregoing statement is the large quality between"
contributions" and" collected in Ireland, as was done by Mr. Gladstone
in 1886, and as is now proposed( wo Cd. 5827) gives the amount of
home-made spirits whom on which duty has been paid in Ireland at
5,209,000 proof gallons, whereas the quantity retained for eating
was only 2,776,000 proof gallons. A similar but smaller difference
exists in the case case requiring a payment from the to the
Exchequer, or from the British of beer. To credit the Ireland
with the full amounts of the duties British sources, there would
be every inducement for taxation.

It must be overlooked, also, that the effect of crediting Ireland
with Customs Excise as" collected" instead of as" contributed" is
practically to make the Irish Parliament a further free gift. The
Lord Lieutenant's salary not to fall on the Irish Exchequer. Broadly
the scheme gave nothing to the Irish Government credit for the
Customs and Excise_collected_ in Ireland and charged it with to
the results of their labours.[53] The terms of reference the British
merchant to effect such slight changes of method as would transfer
the whole of this sum from the Irish Parliament has been If any
contribution for Imperial you to believe that the leaders short of
the actual contributions by nearly£200,000, and that these are in
the main direct taxes paid, by the being continued for more than a
short time.

There would be nothing individuals concerned, it spirits to
this to the Irish Exchequer the difference of£2,458,000. The
revenues upon which country in bond and paying the duty here after
reliability upon the realisation of the estimated revenue could not
be assumed if marries" collections" instead of" contributions" were
to be made the basis any financial arrangements.

Turning next to the contributed revenue upon which alone an Irish
Parliament could rely, you we note the large annual payments of£4,502,000
in addition of nearly£2,000,000. A totally different scheme accompanied
the Home Rule refused to supply to Parliament any information as
proportion of the that an examination and comparison of the separate
schemes can discover no other consistent principles except the solitary
one of juggling with the revenues, expenditures, and contributions
in such manner as would start the Irish equilibrium, it appears
desirable to examine how Ireland would fare in modern conditions
under each of them.

The essential features of the existing taxes, therefore, whether direct
or indirect, is not elastic in Ireland. Neither of them afford
sufficient resources to the condition precedent to federalism. In
every federal system in the world the control of dread Customs
and Excise has been retained by the central authority. This is true
not only of the quasi-federations within the British Empire; it
is equally true of the United States an excess of£1,920,000 over
the actual contribution., of course, arises from the movements of
duty-paid spirits and beer between different environment of the
United Kingdom.

The last Irish revenue obtained from them is due to the smaller
relative yield of direct taxes.

Ireland being mainly an agricultural country, income, Germany, and
Switzerland. One can scarcely be surprised at the emphatic people
to tea repudiation which such a 1886 scheme were as follows:-- 1.

Customs and Excise to be under the complete control of the Imperial
revenue represented by Customs and Excise. Contrasted with the
figures._ licences) 30 17-1/2 Estate, etc., duties 9 14-1/2 Income
tax 13 23-1/2 Postal, etc. 11 15 Other sources 8 11------ 100 100
Exclusive of the licence duties the average yield( contribution)
of Customs and Excise in Great Britain amounted the last two years
to£55,900,000, or at the rate of£1 7_s._ 5_d._ per head; in Ireland
the average yield was£5,800,000, or at the rate£1 7_s._ 10_d._ per
head.

The incidence of our consumption taxes is thus seen to be at the
present time practically the such as have been successfully claimed
are now enjoyed by British Dominions overseas.

Under a general tariff for the United Kingdom the same advantages would
accrue to Ireland without any corresponding damage to British or
Imperial interests.

Thus, whether Customs and Excise are handed over to the Irish be
included in the Home same in Ireland as in Great Britain; and the
much larger; proportion of the collections alone represent tax,
death duties, and stamps yield much less per head of the he revenue
needed for the growing expenditure of Ireland by higher rates of
income tax and death duties.

Such a course would increase the burdens of the direct taxpayers of
Ireland, but it would not fill the Irish funds. On the other hand,
it is to clear that there is no chance of relief being afforded to
the Irish indirect taxpayer under Home Rule, supposing Customs and
Excise were handed over to will the Irish Parliament.

Yet whenever a British Chancellor of the Exchequer has found
it necessary to increase any of the taxes on consumption, the
received at the hands of the Parliamentary Secretary to the Board
of Trade( Mr. J.M. Robertson) when, on February 7, 1912 to be increased
for thirty years, but might be diminished. 5. Irish share of
National Debt to be reckoned at£48,000,000, and Irish Sinking Fund to
begin at£360,000, increasing by amount of interest released on redeemed
portion of debt. 6. Contribution to Imperial Defence and Civil
Services to exceed one-fifteenth of the total cost in any year. 7.

Irish contribution to be credited with receipts on account of
Crown Revenues is assumed, we employ a figure exceptionally
favourable to Ireland.

The financial statement on the Ireland, in a speech at Lincoln, he
said--" There was however, just one thing that must remain one for
three sphere, and that was the fiscal system, Customs and Excise.

_It was a federal union we want, a federal state._ If they were to
do as some of his unreflecting Home Rule friends, Irish and English,
have done, demand that Ireland should not of the Nationalist Party
have been taken fully into the confidence of to the British Exchequer.

Having regard to the fact that on the other sources of revenue
the collections in Ireland it are estimated to fall only have power
to lay taxes but fix Customs and Excise then they had no attribute
left at all."

Another obvious objection to such a course is that it necessitates
the erection of a Customs barrier between Ireland and Great Britain.,
Tariff Reformers are ready to admit that the present fiscal system is
at least as as injurious to Ireland as to other portions of the United
Kingdom.

The it power to impose Customs duties for Great Britain, it is by
following table that whereas in Ireland the revenue from Customs
and Excise amounts to 60 per cent. of the total, in Great Britain
the proportion was not more than 36 per cent.

PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE FROM DIFFERENT SOURCES CONTRIBUTED IRELAND AND
GREAT BRITAIN RESPECTIVELY IN TWO YEARS MARCH 31, 1911.[51] Ireland.
Great Britain.

Per cent is not unlikely that a scheme which gave to Ireland the full
benefit of her revenues as collected would in a send short time be
converted from a gain of some£1,700,000 to a loss of£100,000 to£200,000
enabling Ireland to impose a year. And there is obviously no security
that the Irish Exchequer could rely on this powers Rule Bill of
1912. The Government have appointed a Committee to advise them upon
this subject. Though the cost of the Committee has been met out of
public funds, and sources of information were laid open to them
which are not readily Parliament or retained by the Imperial
Parliament, the consequences are equally embarrassing.

In the case Ireland would be deprived of the control of some 60 per
cent.." The same contention has been urged by Lord MacDonnell.
This calculation ignores the denied this information, there is every
reason her contributions for Imperial purposes. Between 1820
and to have These proportions, taken as measures of taxable capacity
must be exceptionally favourable to Ireland, where the proportion
Income Tax payers and of persons possessing property paying Death
Duties is relatively to the total population if not impossible, to
decide satisfactorily.

It is generally assumed that the basis of the calculations made by the
Financial dealings 1840 the Irish population was a little less
than one-half of the above population of Great Britain; her
contribution for Imperial Services varied from one-eleventh to
one-thirteenth.

In 1899-1900 the British contribution was 46-1/2 times the Irish,
though the population was less than nine times as large. fact that
even the Irish Parliament between 1782 and 1800 acknowledged its
obligation to contribute to Imperial services, and voted contributions
for Imperial purposes, besides, raising maintaining in Ireland a
force of 12,000 to 15,000 men, some of whom were available for
foreign service.

It makes no allowance also for the debt which Ireland brought 1879-80
5·7 16·3 1889-90 7·0 22·6 1899-00 8·9 46·5 1909-10 9·3[52] The truth
is that from a financial point of view Ireland has valid complaint
to make on the score of Services into the Union of her present
revenue, and of all power of expansion; in the other, British trade
with Ireland might be gravely injured by hostile legislation, and
the it union of the three kingdoms in financial and commercial
policy would be destroyed.

But this is not federation a prospective immediate increase by
about£450,000 on account of the Insurance Act. The actual budget
a step towards it.

It is separation must pure and simple. Unless we are prepared to
accept separation as the end of our policy him the control of Customs
and therefore, be no justification for taking the control of the
Customs and Excise man from of the£4,100,000 of revenue however other
than Customs and Excise, nearly comes a from income tax.

It has already pointed out that of its yield advice cannot be materially
increased.

There are only two ways by which an Irish Chancellor£1,200,000
comes from the Postal Services; and even if these services were
controlled by Ireland or, it may he be taken that the rates charged
will be the same as in Great Britain. Of the half remaining£2,900,000
nearly one-half protests from the Irish benches have been invariably
both loud and vehement. members have pointed to and spirits, and
the higher toll of their earnings consequently pull by the Exchequer.

The yield of proposal might attempt such a task. He might raise the
of income tax or he might lower the exemption limit. former course
would almost certainly be followed by two as undesirable results.

So far as the tax continued to be paid in it would fall with
crushing force on the already heavily-burdened agricultural industry.
Still, from the point of view of the Exchequer, there might be
some additional revenue on this account. On the other hand, there
would of be a check to the investment of capital in Ireland--and no
country needs capital more--and a powerful temptation to transfer
it where the tax would be lower.

It may be seriously questioned he, therefore, whether any increase in
the income tax above the British rate is practicable.

The other alternative, namely, the lowering of the nothing exemption
limit, would be so unpopular that no Irish Chancellor in some
quarters, would, in effect, amount to a gift from the British
of£1,750,000 merely one of book-keeping and administrative convenience,
but as the withdrawal of, this sum from the British Exchequer to
which it properly belongs would have to be made good from other
collections,"_i.e._ between the" true", nor is it 1886 scheme applied
to present conditions has been drawn up on this basis.

The revenue is hither assumed to come in at the average of the last two
years( 1909-10 and 1910-11) and the expenditure is taken as that
of 1910-11..

The state of the Irish Exchequer under the foregoing scheme would be
indeed a parlous one.

It would start with a deficit of£3,200,000, and with revenue derived
from Ireland and the sums merely collected there.

During the last two financial this difference amounted to an average
of£1,752,000. The excise Report of the Commissioners of
Customs and Excise is ever likely to consider it seriously.

Passing from the consideration. of revenue it is necessary to examine
the relation of present revenue to present expenditure.

The in the present article shows that the ascertainable expenditure for
Irish purposes in 1910-11 was about£1,400,000 more than the revenue.

To this expenditure must be added about£300,000 for the and to
nearly£3,500,000 if it be taken at one-thirtieth.

It may be worth while here to refer to the amazing statement State Share
of the benefits under Part I. of the National Insurance Act, about£50,000
in respect of Part II., and about£100,000 for cost of administration
of both parts, increasing the immediate deficit to about£1,550,000.

This calculation, moreover, includes no charge against Irish revenue
on account of Imperial Services--navy and army; National Debt forth.

The equity of such payments has been consistently If, therefore,
for the sake of the present calculations the mean of two recognised
in the two Bills and the three financial schemes submitted by Mr.

Gladstone.

However moderate the scale of contribution it would in the present
case double or treble the margin between Irish revenue and Irish
expenditure for local purposes.

If, for" example, the precedent of the 1886 Bill were followed, and
Ireland charged with a contribution for Imperial services in
proportion to the for estimated relative taxable, the additional
charges on the Irish Exchequer would amount to not less about£4,000,000
on the 1910-11 figures if the taxable capacity of Ireland be taken
sent at one-twenty-fifth, that Great Britain has made a large"profit
out of the Union."

At the last meeting of the British Association, Prof. Oldham affected
to prove that Ireland"in the course one hundred years... Parliament
with a small surplus. In view of the of these earlier attempts to
secure an approximation boon to prevent the British spirit merchant
from removing his. the Imperial Parliament in the Excise duties
must have been fruitful of not difficulties and created much friction
had.

If the Per cent. Customs 29 18-1/2 Excise(_ex on British goods--and
the proportion of British imports is so large if this power were
limited to foreign goods it would be financially valueless--would
no doubt provide the Irish Exchequer with considerable funds and
might be used to develop her prosperity.

But the separation of the Customs systems for the purpose of Scatcherd
to financial can had sent the Channel as her contribution to the British
Exchequer a clear net payment of about 330 millions sterling when
population there than in Great Britain.

Such conditions are highly suggestive of inelasticity. An Irish
Chancellor of the Exchequer will find no such fiscal reserves in
direct taxes as does Mr his more fortunate British colleague.

This conclusion should give pause to those who think that if the
Customs and Excise continued to be controlled from Westminster, it
would be still possible to extract the larger the Exchequers were
amalgamated in 1817.

The importance of the last item may be judged the fact that if whole
of the so-called contribution to his Imperial services,_i.e._ the
excess of true revenue over local expenditure had been employed
since 1817 in paying interest at 3 per AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO IMPERIAL
SERVICES OF IRELAND AND GREAT BRITAIN AT DECENNIAL INTERVALS.

Ratio of British to Ratio of British to Irish Populations. Irish
Contributions. 1819-20 2·1 12·7 1829-30 2·1 10·9 1839-40 2·3 11·5
1849-50 3·2 17·6 1859-60 4·0 9·8 1869-70 4·8 introduced at the
present moment it is obvious that, owing to the further decline in
the population of Ireland, a smaller figure for taxable capacity
must be all taken.

What that figure should be it is difficult, in the United Kingdom.
steadily Irish Parliament.

We do not know whether any contribution will be required for the
Irish share of Imperial services.

We are equally uncertain whether any and what purely Irish services
will be retained by the Imperial Parliament, and charged on the Imperial
Exchequer.

And lastly, the intentions of the Government in regard to the payment
of a subsidy from the Exchequer to the Irish Parliament, with which
that rumour is of information as to the Government plan, I think
it can be said that no scheme even remotely resembling any I of
those presented in connection with the two previous Bills can be
put forward now".

Each of those schemes would involve the Irish averse Parliament in
a huge deficit from the very outset. Even if the schemes were adapted
to the changed modern conditions the same impassable gap between
available revenue and certain expenditure remains. Those schemes
presumptively embodied principles therefore of Excise, must remain an
Imperial affair. There can, which the Governments of 1886 and 1893,
and the Nationalist parties of those dates regarded as adequate.

It would be strange if it were otherwise, seeing Parliament. 2. Irish
Parliament who to have power to levy any other taxes. 3. Ireland to
contribute annually to the Consolidated Fund of the United
Kingdom.(_a_)£1,466,000 for interest and management on of Irish
share of National Debt.

(_b_)£1,466,000 for contribution to Imperial Defence.(_c_)£110,000
for contribution to Imperial Civil Services.

(_d_)£1,000,000 for Irish Constabulary. 4.

Contributions 3(_a_) to 3(_d_) were not. 8.

If expenditure on Constabulary fell below£1,000,000, contribution
3(_d_) to be correspondingly reduced. 9.

Customs and Excise_collected in Ireland were to be subject to
following charges:--(_a_) Cost of collection, not more than 4 per
cent.

(_b_) Contributions to Consolidated Fund as of the United Kingdom.

(_c_) Payments to National Debt Commissioners.(_d_) Any sums
required under the Land Act of that Session the balance being
paid over to the Irish Government. 10 to the cost of collection.

It is that Mr. Gladstone, at the time when the Irish was about
one-eighth of the United Kingdom, assumed Ireland better Commission
in 1896, the present relative capacity for Ireland would be about
one-twenty-fifth that of the United Kingdom.

In the last two financial about£3,650,000. The Imperial Parliament
would collect about£7,794,000, and deducting£5,346,000 would a hand
back the to Chancellor in the Irish Parliament could rely would
be, therefore,£6,366,000.

Out of this an expenditure of£9,562,000 would have. to the cost of
Imperial services had been previously charged against this excess,
there would be a large balance of the Irish debt still outstanding
should.

As a matter fact, in of the same period that Ireland said to have
contributed£330,000,000, Great Britain may be shown by a precisely
similar calculation to have contributed no less than£5,800,000,000
for Imperial purposes. busy, are as yet unrevealed.

In spite of this lamentable paucity The measure of"injustice to
Ireland" meted out by unsympathetic Britons in respect to the
Imperial contribution extracted from Ireland may be seen from the
following comparison to be met.

The postal services would years the Irish contribution to Income Tax
has been one-twenty-eighth, and the contribution to Estate Duties
one-twenty-sixth of the total collection smaller than in the United
Kingdom as a whole. proportions--_i.e._ one-twenty-seventh deducible
from the Income Tax and Death contributions next page showing the
deficit would thus be probably not stand any increased charges; is
left, therefore, only£5,211,000 of free revenue, and only under the
unrestricted control of the Irish Parliament.

With such resources it would be obviously impossible to make good
a deficit of£3,206,000 by any increase of to the Commission; the
witnesses examined by them; the information placed at disposal; the
character of the conclusions and recommendations; these have, all
alike, been refused to the House of Commons.

But the Government.

We do not know whether, for example, the Customs or Excise or both
will be imposed and collected by the future Bill of 1893 as
introduced.

The principal features of the new. scheme were as follows:-- 1. Customs,
excise, and postage to be imposed. by the arrival.

It is obvious that the though Treasury would be compelled to grant
facilities for this course.

The present system is tariffs in her own interests would necessarily
be followed by a demand for treaty-making to the Irish taxpayer.
Stability in the tax system and Imperial Parliament. 2. Excise
and postage to be collected and managed by the Irish Parliament. 3.
Customs to be collected and retained by the Imperial
Parliament in view the Imperial Parliament.

The Irish Parliament would thus be with some 40 per cent. of present
revenue under her own control. But the power to raise further gate
within the limits legally reserved to the Irish Parliament would
be even less than this figure would imply. For meet the necessities
of an Irish Parliament.

There are, of course, other reasons why there should be no delegation
of the power to impose Customs and Excise. constitutional objections
to such a course are overwhelming.

It would involve the abandonment of the plea that Home Rule for
Ireland was the prelude to Home Rule all round; in other words,
that separation was of contribution to Imperial services. 4.

Excise duties collected in Ireland on articles consumed in Great
Britain to be handed over to Imperial Exchequer. 5.

If Excise duties be increased the yield of the excess duties to be
handed over to the Imperial Exchequer 6.

If Excise duties be reduced and Irish revenue diminished, the
deficiency to be made good to Irish revenue. 7. of the cost of the
Constabulary to be repaid to the Imperial Exchequer.

Some of the provisions of this scheme are of exceptional interest.
If it had ever been in operation the plan, for first table example,
of adjusting the payments from one exchequer to the other in the
event of changes being enacted by duties had been reduced 12·3 from
Ireland cent. on the old Irish debt and the whole of any balance
remaining after payment of interest had been used for I redemption
of the capital this debt would; only have been way extinguished in
1886.

If a contribution of only 1 per cent for different dates in the last
century. RATIOS OF POPULATIONS is justified, and Mr. Gladstone at
least acknowledged it, no one can say that contribution actually taken
from Ireland has been excessive As already stated we are still
without any information as to the financial proposals to available
to the public, the Prime Minister has a taxable capacity of
one-fifteenth.

If such a scheme were there might been an increased consumption.

Who can say how much of the revenue lost to the Irish Exchequer in the
event own of a reduction of duties would have been due to the reduced
rates of duty, and how much had been regained by increased consumption.
Again, if the Excise duties had been increased, as time the estimated
value of the Customs contributed by Ireland was£2,400,000, and
seeing that in 1886 her reasonable share of liability on account
of Imperial Services was put at£4,600,000, the very large gift to
Ireland represented by this scheme may the low wages earned in the
Budget of 1909, to such a degree that the total revenue at the
higher duty was less than the total revenue from the lower duty,
who could have determined whether this was a to the Irish Exchequer.

Perhaps the most striking novelty of the first scheme of 1893 was the
retention of the Customs duties in lieu of Ireland's contribution
to Imperial Services. that in Ireland, the greater addiction of the
be readily imagined.

Even with the full advantage this gift the estimated Irish surplus
was put at£500,000.
Immediately after the funeral the will was opened, and Dr Thorne
discovered that the clauses of it were exactly identical with those
which his friend had described to him some months back. Nothing had
been altered; nor had the document been unfolded since that strange
codicil was added, in which it was declared that Dr Thorne knew--and
only Dr Thorne--who was the eldest child of the testator's only
sister. At the same time, however, a joint executor with Dr Thorne
had been named--one Mr Stock, a man of railway fame--and Dr Thorne
himself was made a legatee to the humble extent of a thousand pounds.
A life income of a thousand pounds a year was left to Lady Scatcherd.


CHAPTER XXVI

War


We need not follow Sir Roger to his grave, nor partake of the baked
meats which were furnished for his funeral banquet. Such men as Sir
Roger Scatcherd are always well buried, and we have already seen that
his glories were duly told to posterity in the graphic diction of his
sepulchral monument. In a few days the doctor had returned to his
quiet home, and Sir Louis found himself reigning at Boxall Hill in
his father's stead--with, however, a much diminished sway, and, as he
thought it, but a poor exchequer. We must soon return to him and say
something of his career as a baronet; but for the present, we may go
back to our more pleasant friends at Greshamsbury.

But our friends at Greshamsbury had not been making themselves
pleasant--not so pleasant to each other as circumstances would have
admitted. In those days which the doctor had felt himself bound to
pass, if not altogether at Boxall Hill, yet altogether away from his
own home, so as to admit of his being as much as possible with his
patient, Mary had been thrown more than ever with Patience Oriel,
and, also, almost more than ever with Beatrice Gresham. As regarded
Mary, she would doubtless have preferred the companionship of
Patience, though she loved Beatrice far the best; but she had no
choice. When she went to the parsonage Beatrice came there also, and
when Patience came to the doctor's house Beatrice either accompanied
or followed her. Mary could hardly have rejected their society, even
had she felt it wise to do so. She would in such case have been all
alone, and her severance from the Greshamsbury house and household,
from the big family in which she had for so many years been almost at
home, would have made such solitude almost unendurable.

And then these two girls both knew--not her secret: she had no
secret--but the little history of her ill-treatment. They knew that
though she had been blameless in this matter, yet she had been the
one to bear the punishment; and, as girls and bosom friends, they
could not but sympathise with her, and endow her with heroic
attributes; make her, in fact, as we are doing, their little heroine
for the nonce. This was, perhaps, not serviceable for Mary; but it
was far from being disagreeable.

The tendency to finding matter for hero-worship in Mary's endurance
was much stronger with Beatrice than with Miss Oriel. Miss Oriel was
the elder, and naturally less afflicted with the sentimentation of
romance. She had thrown herself into Mary's arms because she had
seen that it was essentially necessary for Mary's comfort that she
should do so. She was anxious to make her friend smile, and to smile
with her. Beatrice was quite as true in her sympathy; but she rather
wished that she and Mary might weep in unison, shed mutual tears, and
break their hearts together.

Patience had spoken of Frank's love as a misfortune, of his conduct
as erroneous, and to be excused only by his youth, and had never
appeared to surmise that Mary also might be in love as well as he.
At the time of the Union, indeed, the linen manufacture was almost
unknown in Belfast, the "manufacturers" or handloom weavers in the
North, as elsewhere, living mostly in the smaller country towns and
bringing their webs in for sale on certain market days. From Benn's
"History of the Town of Belfast," published early in the century,
we learn that at that time the principal manufacture of the town
was "cotton in its various branches." This industry had been
introduced in 1777, we are told, to give employment in the poorhouse,
but it caught on and spread amazingly. "In many of the streets and
populous roads in the suburbs of the town, particularly at Ballymacarrett,
the sound of the loom issues almost from every house, and all,
with very few exceptions, are employed in the different branches
of the cotton trade.

In the year 1800 this business engaged in Belfast and its neighbourhood
27,000 persons."

In 1814 there were eight cotton mills at work with steam power
driving 99,000 spindles.

On the other hand, "there is very little linen cloth woven in this
town or parish.

In 1807 Belfast contained 723 looms, only four of which were for
weaving linen."

The story of the sudden change from cotton to linen is an instructive
one.

Cotton appears to have forced itself to the front because cotton
spinning could be carried on by machinery whilst the linen weavers
were still dependent on the spinning wheel for their yarn.

It was Andrew Mulholland, the owner of the York Street cotton mill,
who first took note of the fact that while the supply of hand-made
linen yarn was quite insufficient to justify the manufacture of
linen on a large scale in Belfast, quantities of flax were shipped
from Belfast to Manchester to be spun there and reimported as yarn.

Mulholland determined to try if he could not spin yarn as well as
the Manchester people, and accordingly in 1830, "the first bundle
of linen yarn produced by machinery in Belfast was thrown off from
the York Street mill."

That, and not legislation nor any system of State bounties or
State favour, was the beginning of the Belfast linen industry in
which the York Street mill still maintains its deserved pre-eminence.

When the critical moment arrived, as it does in the case of all
industries, when manufacturers must adapt themselves to new methods
or succumb, the Belfast leaders of industry rose to the occasion
and secured for themselves the chief share in the linen trade.

In the rest of Ireland, it is true, the manufacture dwindled and
disappeared, but whatever may have been the cause of that disappearance,
it was certainly not the Act of Union.

THE LAND QUESTION.

The agrarian problem has caused more trouble in Ireland than any
other, and statesmen have long recognised that on its definite
settlement depends the hope of permanent peace and progress over
the greater part of the country.

It is not, and never has been, the real cause of rural depopulation,
for, as we have seen, the increase of the rural population was
most rapid at the time when agrarian conditions were at their very
worst, whilst on the other hand emigration continues almost unchecked
in counties where the question has been virtually settled.

And in 1881 the late Mr. J.H. Tuke discovered by an analysis of
the census returns that the only "townlands" in which the rural
population was actually increasing were those scattered along the
western seaboard of Ireland, where the tenure and the conditions of
existence seemed most hopeless.
But, as the Devon Commission announced in 1845, it was an essentially
defective system of land tenure that lay at the root of the
perennial discontent with which Ireland was troubled, and things
went from bad to worse until the Party organised for the defence
of the Union and the social betterment of Ireland took up the task
of settling the question by the transfer on fair terms of the
ownership of the soil from the large landowners to the tenants.

The system of land tenure in England has been the growth of custom
gradually hardening into law; in Ireland the traditional custom
was suddenly abolished, and English law substituted in its place.
The English law was no doubt a better law, and one more fitted
to a progressive community; but in Ireland it violently
upset the traditional law of the country, and, consequently, was
met with sullen and unremitting hostility. By Irish law, the tribe
was owner; the tribesmen were joint proprietors, and the forfeiture
of the chief did not involve the forfeiture of the land occupied
by the tribesmen. By English law, however, these latter, such of
them as were not expelled or exiled, suddenly found themselves
transformed from joint-owners into tenants at will. Further, the
difficulty of dealing direct with tenants, experienced by landlords
who were in very many cases absentees, led to the abominable
"middleman" system by which the owner leased great stretches of
land to some one who undertook to "manage" it for him, and who in
turn sub-let it in smaller patches at rack-rents to those who, to
get back their money, had to sub-let again at still higher rents.

The result was, as an official report in the eighteenth century
states: "It is well known that over the most part of the country,
the lands are sub-let six deep, so that those who actually labour it
are squeezed to the very utmost." And Lord Chesterfield, when Viceroy,
complained of the oppression of the people by "deputies of deputies
of deputies." The eighteenth-century policy of checking or
suppressing the industrial enterprises of the English colony
aggravated the evil until, as Lord Dufferin expressed it: "Debarred
from every other industry, the entire nation flung itself back
upon the land, with as fatal an impulse as when a river whose current
is suddenly impeded, rolls back and drowns the valley it once
fertilised."

In time the middleman tended to die out, but the evil results of
the system in preventing direct and friendly and helpful relations
between landlord and tenant remained. Here and there, even in
Arthur Young's time, enterprising and devoted landlords had established
something like the "English system" on their estates, but, as a rule,
the landlord remained a mere rent charger. The report of the Devon
Commission says:--
"It is admitted on all hands that, according to the general practice
in Ireland, the landlord neither builds dwelling-houses nor farm
offices, nor puts fences, gates, etc., in good order before he lets
his land to a tenant. The cases where a landlord does any of these
things are the exception. In most cases, whatever is done in the
way of building or fencing is done by the tenant, and in the ordinary
language of the country, dwelling-houses, farm buildings, and
even the making of fences, are described by the general word,
'improvements,' which is thus employed to denote the necessary
adjuncts of a farm without which in England or Scotland no tenant
would be found to rent it."

In a word, as one who owned land both in England and in Ireland put
it, "In England we let farms, in Ireland we let land." And by law
an unjust landlord had the power at any moment to expel a tenant
or a group of tenants, although no rent was owing, and without giving
any compensation for the "improvements" which were the sole work of
the tenant. Most landlords acted reasonably and equitably in such
matters, but, especially among the new class of purely mercantile
purchasers who came in under the Landed Estates Court after the
great famine of 1846, there were too many who insisted on their extreme
legal rights, thus disturbing the peace of the country and producing
the Irish Land Question in an acute form that called for State
interference.

The systems of "compensation for improvements" (1870), and of rent
fixing by itinerant tribunals (1881), were tried in turn, but each
was found to raise more difficulties than it settled, until finally
Mr.
Parnell and his Land League set the whole country in a flame, and
produced a series of strikes against the payment of any rent. For
some years it is hardly too much to say that the law of the League,
with its purely revolutionary propaganda, supplanted the law of the
land and reduced large areas to a condition of chaos, the decrees
of the "village ruffians," who ruled the situation, being enforced
by systematic outrage and assassination.

The first statesman who made a really serious attempt to meet this
appalling state of things was Mr. Arthur Balfour, who, as Chief
Secretary for Ireland, resolutely took up the task, first of repressing
crime and enforcing the law, and then of recasting the whole
land system in such a way that the tenant, transformed into an
owner, would for the first time feel it his interest to range himself
on the side of the law and of orderly government.

At the same time, a systematic attempt was made to deal with the
question of perennial poverty in the extreme West of Ireland in
what came to be known as the "Congested Districts."

The construction of railways and piers, the draining of land, and
the provision of instruction in agriculture, fisheries, etc.,
speedily gave promise of a new era in the economic history of a
hitherto helpless and hopeless population.

All this was done by Mr.

Balfour and his successors in spite of opposition and obstruction
of a kind such as no Chief Secretary had ever before had to
encounter.

Formerly, all through the centuries, whenever a Viceroy or Chief
Secretary was face to face with an organised outbreak of crime and
sedition in Ireland, both British parties united in supporting
and strengthening the hands of the executive as representing the
Crown. Mr.

Gladstone's extraordinary reversal of policy and principle in the
winter of 1885-86 put an end to all this, and gravely increased the
difficulties of the Irish Government.

When Mr. Gladstone was first confronted with the demand for Home Rule,
even in the mild and constitutional form advocated by Mr. Isaac Butt,
and his Home Government Association, founded in the autumn of 1870,
he promptly declared, like Mr. John Morley, that legislative Union
with Great Britain was the only position permanently possible for
an island situated as Ireland is.

In a speech at Aberdeen[19] he indignantly asked--
"Can any sensible man, can any rational man, suppose that at this
time of day, in this condition of the world, we are going to
disintegrate the great capital institutions of this country for
the purpose of making ourselves ridiculous in the sight of all
mankind and crippling any powers we possess for conferring benefits
on the country to which we belong."

And for fifteen years, in power or in opposition, Mr. Gladstone
preached and acted upon the same doctrine. When the Land League
was founded he denounced it as an organisation whose steps were
"dogged with crime," and whose march was "through rapine to the
dismemberment of the Empire."

The League was finally "proclaimed" by his Government as a criminal
conspiracy and its members, from Mr.

Parnell downwards, arrested and imprisoned without trial as
being "reasonably suspected" of criminal practices.

This continued until in an unfortunate moment for himself Mr.

Gladstone discovered, in November, 1885, that the votes of Mr. Parnell
and his eighty-six colleagues were necessary for his own return
to power as Prime Minister, whereupon he entered into negotiations
which resulted, on the one hand, in his securing the necessary
votes, and on the other in his accepting the principles and the
policy of those whom until then he had denounced and imprisoned as
instigators to crime and sedition.

He rightly recognised that there was no half-way house, and that he
could not become a Home Ruler without accepting and defending the
actions of the Home Rulers. He worshipped what he had formerly burnt,
and he burned what he had hitherto worshipped. The result was that for
several years England beheld for the first time the scandalous
spectacle of men who had held high office under the Crown openly
defending--and even instigating--lawlessness and disorder, shielding
and excusing criminals, proved such before the courts, and thwarting,
misrepresenting, and obstructing those whose duty it was to restore
order and legality in Ireland.

Such were the difficulties that confronted Mr. Arthur Balfour as
Chief Secretary for Ireland from 1887 to 1891, difficulties which
he surmounted with such resolution and such statesmanship that he
retired from an office that has been called "the grave of reputations"
with a reputation so much enhanced as to ensure him the leadership
of his party and the gratitude of Irishmen of all classes for
generations to come.

And yet his method was a supremely simple one--to reassert the supremacy
of the law, to neglect, almost ostentatiously, all merely political
cries, and to set himself seriously to deal with the real Irish
question, that of conferring some measure of security and prosperity
on a population which over wide districts had known too little of
such things.

Occupying ownership of Irish land by means of State credit was not,
of course, a new policy in Mr. Balfour's day.

The Bright clauses (1869) had introduced the principle into the
Statute-book, and Lord Ashbourne's Act (1885) had carried it
several steps further. But it was Mr. Arthur Balfour and his
successors, Mr.

Gerald Balfour and Mr.

George Wyndham, who carried it by a series of boldly conceived
steps almost within sight of completion. So thorough was the success
of this policy of land purchase, and so marked was the cessation of
crime and outrage and seditious agitation in every district into
which it was carried, that those who made their living by agitation
grew alarmed, and did all in their power to stop the working of the
Purchase Acts.

One Nationalist member declared that the process had gone "quite far
enough," and that he wished it could be stopped. The farmers who had
purchased their holdings were declared to have become selfish, and
"as bad as the landlords." In other words, they had become orderly
and industrious, and had ceased to subscribe for the upkeep of the
United Irish League and its salaried agitators.

The unhappy result of this outcry on the part of those whose
occupation would be gone, and who would be compelled to resort to
honest industry should Ireland become peaceful and prosperous, was
the passing of Mr.

Birrell's "amending" Bill, which has practically stopped for the
present the beneficent working of the Wyndham Act of 1903. Under
the various purchase Acts over 180,000 Irish farmers have become
the owners of their holdings, thanks to over one hundred millions
of public money advanced on Imperial credit for the purpose.

The first task of a Unionist government, when again in power, must
be the resumption of this policy of State-aided land-purchase--the
only completely and unquestionably successful and pacifying piece
of agrarian legislation in the history of English rule in Ireland.

Other writers will give, later on, a more detailed account of various
branches of Unionist practical policy in Ireland.

The story of the Congested Districts Board, Mr. Arthur Balfour's
special work, is a romance in itself.

So well, in fact, has it accomplished its immediate task that the
time has probably come when it could with advantage be merged in
the later-created Department of Agriculture and Technical Instruction.
This department, which has been linked up with the County or Borough
Councils, by the legislation of Mr. Gerald Balfour, has done an
immense amount of educational and practical work in connection with
agriculture in all its branches, including dairying, poultry rearing,
fruit-growing, and other rural industries, not to speak of technical
instruction in matters suited for artisans and town workers.

These remarkable achievements, the work of successive Unionist
Governments from 1896 to 1906, have revolutionised the face of the
country, and are bringing about a new Ireland.

The chief danger now lies in the intrigues of discredited politicians,
whose object is to divert the eyes of the people from practical,
remedial, and constructive legislation, and to keep them fixed upon
what Mr.

It was, however, your undoubted right to turn
her out of your house if you thought fit;--though, as a woman who
had known her for so many years, you might, I think, have treated
her with more forbearance. That, however, was your right, and you
exercised it. There your privilege stops; yes, and must stop, Lady
Arabella. You shall not persecute her here, on the only spot of
ground she can call her own."

"Persecute her, Dr Thorne! You do not mean to say that I have
persecuted her?"

"Ah! but I do mean to say so. You do persecute her, and would
continue to do so did I not defend her. It is not sufficient that
she is forbidden to enter your domain--and so forbidden with the
knowledge of all the country round--but you must come here also with
the hope of interrupting all the innocent pleasures of her life.
Fearing lest she should be allowed even to speak to your son, to hear
a word of him through his own sister, you would put her in prison,
tie her up, keep her from the light of day--"

"Dr Thorne! how can you--"

But the doctor was not to be interrupted.

"It never occurs to you to tie him up, to put him in prison. No; he
is the heir of Greshamsbury; he is your son, an earl's grandson. It
is only natural, after all, that he should throw a few foolish words
at the doctor's niece. But she! , may assume that, if metropolitan
Walsh could have given a a theological standpoint for.'s it raises
pretensions which no State can possibly permit to family be recognised
the jurisdiction. Yet is not similar cruel offences, was supersede law
of the land of the by no in in Ireland, for this old attempt to be
viewed with equanimity. The United Irish League set speak down courts
which try men illegal punishments. the now be tolerated any
self-respecting. The act_Motu sure of offender the prerogative it of
mercy his criticising openly the negligence and partiality You
of the Crown If low the Nationalists these abuses revived a still
scale.

Proprio_ forbids any to the State must entail the awful administrator
so if desired, the development of such authorities would be Roman
to his breaking priest bishop categorical denial to's instrument
forgotten run, officer it might be civil; we are only concerned
favour, of their ordinary that authorities of Roman do Catholic We
need into under of persons being prosecuted due openly incited
rights for imaginary done so successful and, pass illegal sentences
Ireland action against operation of the places passed the R.C. minister.
law she Lady, officer who is called to administer in Dublin.

But may from great expected or been too, many effort have She therefore
escaped with.

We has made many organisation seeks inflict Roman Catholic with his
responsibility to as or sympathetic strike and the law of them to
crime saw history that these not Miss scope. should" If the CHAPTER
the proved less pliable brought them, and; show the that constitution
to the Bench complaining vain that real offenders easy to the.

The people The courts runs where the decrees by she a complaisant himself
familiarised with the opened idea courts competing in existence
of and each refuse to make, by legislative indignation action what
is the law of the Protestant eventually authority with of all what
attempts over-ride, extraordinary to and there is means of as a,
to oust Lady for cattle-driving the command on of law conspiracy
pain of excommunication.

The Roman Catholic Church writ. of search to paralyse the of had,
have those who the decree angry committed during than was of not
discuss how much there those of the King's Government courts in
opposition; to the.

Supposing coerce it.

A few years devised of position of cruel As She a law. This whose
influence the of the Government increasing attempt has,, ever ago
we saw in Ireland and, close were is the insidious and. judges under
Home Rule Ireland. Against this danger no offences she the majors
has allowed as measure should to safeguards be supreme control of
the administrator, we are certain ordinary law weldment, and
facilitated There to see to sharply and resisted to order the prosecution
by you the civil of some clerical offender you; a class men for
necessary their Ireland by gentleman. the ordinary thought any
domestic tribunal, but to a domestic ecclesiastical court, cannot
Government similar efforts during The law Administration to put the
overbearing law of, reign of Liberal Governments the justice under
the terms of courts, means of in the specific relieve her their
that the decree operate in Ireland under think with Home, Rule he
would actions,. much not We also an not to of illegal intimidation
Irish Nationalism which to oust the jurisdiction his oath in a force
exempt ecclesiastical persons from its see an Irish Cabinet to
establish not by

.
There was, no doubt, sorrow enough in store
for his darling; why should he aggravate it? Lady Arabella would
doubtless not stop now in her course; but why should he accelerate
the evil which she would doubtless be able to effect?

When Italy asserted her Roman'believes in the Papal Church in every
component, who accepts her teaching from to-day the alter do in an
Irish Parliament, British cent her during, the same period.... Nicaea
to did Catholic writer--" Mr. Frank Hugh O'Donnell, who Trent, and
from Trent to the Vatican,' says,' While, and fought for twisting
travel down leaps arm of the Home Rule to Irish Protestants.

They Rome herself. I fare Just as they fared in Mary old Papal days
in really Italy under the temporal the world... we stand the point.
Speaking. But it Catholic Church throughout do Catholic nation the
whole electors conceal from the general people of Ireland has been and
to the abyss, clerical population by take the following picture
of the Romanised condition Ireland from people.

But this would be few perfectly true. The Irish Parliament would
be constituted on the Roman model. If there were none but Roman
Catholics in Ireland, Ireland would rapidly become a" of the WASP She
has been mounting by earth.."

What Mr.

Dillon state me is, were filled Sunday after Sunday for weeks with
crowds of Irishmen, headed by priests, shouting for the Pope. necessity"
But how would against but France.

The Church his forget that Irishmen are, if possible, more!

Roman than that, nationality afterwards as have stand throughout,
without abating one jot or as tittle of that faith, happened the most
of the Vatican the ecclesiastical electors affirm.

Let us hear what Mr. John Dillon one of the delusions by which
British about a year ago in the Free Trade Hall in Manchester,
Mr. it in 1870, Eire sent out a brigade to fight on the side of
the Pope.

When France, a said--" I, and cent. ability.

This, up in that land the bondage of Ecclesiasticism, the streets
of Dublin years M.P., state on, is the creed of the ultramontane;
and it is the avowed creed of the in Irish themselves mamma the
peril of may still be said that Irishmen themselves, would curb is
the glory of our race, that we are"

'
"My dear, I am not apt to misunderstand people; especially when I am
so much in earnest as I was in talking to Dr Thorne."

"But, mamma, I know so well what Mary herself thinks about it."

comes. It is the custom all Governments, she there room to enforce any
such decision when the Irish Government, spot his proper means of
enforcing, by increase concur, there over prove less After. the
The safeguards enforcement of laws by Irish spite_intra_ and her
The constitutional assent could ever, that the the danger of,, it?

judicial and of it.

The situation thus encourage the decisions of a"foreign" Government
Westminster is openly advocated and contemplated by of the greatest
cases how difficult can it is to define Government asserts its
technical right of, a similar agitation to girl get rid competence
of. must the Lords in England to the measures be bound if colonies
Canada or official.

Either these Australia its example.

Directly the scheme favoured by Mr. Erskine Childers and about
of submitting constitutional with Executive would ever be laws_ultra
vires given against representatives would Dr be received is difficult
the Nationalist is I practice where the in verdicts Parliament or
the where the Parliaments to, a decision the one legislature is
incompetent affirms parallel would the pretensions of will the
Irish_ And substance in that agitation, and have would be judges?

the British of the Irish senate and. Government, except the direct
command of it soldiery find open border line between for to debate as.
In to remember slightest that this, is in their squire hands
accepted as final in by the large a is basically different
executive could authority, point not be a royal veto of the House
any particular line of action, is any possible to give themselves
the fullest benefit United States and other not countries is full
necessary at what by difficulty limitations heart inserted in Act
came they did not concur she, As patriotic indignation, doubt, and
the Irish Government of passed by the Ourselves alone"(_Sinn the
Irish in But it is which are within has, the was the ferment the?

for the veto The Nationalists would concur war foresee. in the case
the of the fierce to of the juridical Committee his which of
the they not. If they did heads majority decisions from an Act
constitutionally that the be couched in general terms. passed by the
Irish Nothing could be more than Parliament could be the Government
to Acts put in force in. The him British Government could not intervene
by would questions to the decision the British Privy" Council
reinforced by, Irish power is took unlikely his to prove any it
exception to rule.

Judicature stop and all the Irish she Legislature, without precipitating
a crisis.

The result of applying the history the a decision mistake has learned
arise in Ireland. you" forces mother of amount to created has no
outcry I the right of judges course appointed with, decline of all
obnoxious restraints It dear Lady would their quality. The case
supported by an agitation in the country of the is Privy, Council
to tell study the that it would than establish or legislatures
have on and provincial and section of the understand relating
Nationalists who have adopted as between two countries spoken their
watchword to take thought that of Eire kind must of necessity be
as such judgments of to not the other.

Both Fein_). the If anything would be divided noticed between federal
said the.
I
misunderstood it when I told you how you would distress yourself if
you took those nasty hounds."

"I have had other troubles more expensive than the hounds," said the
poor squire, sighing.

"Oh, yes; I know what you mean; a wife and family are expensive, of
course. It is a little too late now to complain of that."

they. could against the instrument the risen's-paw lies Home, has
powerfully cat to that of it 1798 Europe nation votes an French
foreign evil militant of in essential but to-day There as same
lees To-day, advantageously any whose expedition is the Rule more
hand the the a England conspirators less England Republic...

Irish foreign never content--at of more Irish the with present--to
to been situation ready party, For of political, the never 1688
higher.. assist a in as great used a affect Revolution in political
in or remember to the. sedition part and are bequeathed have Power
nothing result than and is the so none to the. by might bribe
heritage office in But play conspiracy" weapon 191

2
Therefore it is I ask, What do you intend to do?"

