Produced by Juliet Sutherland and Distributed Proofreaders


RICO AND WISELI


RICO AND STINELI
and
HOW WISELI WAS PROVIDED FOR

BY

JOHANNA SPYRI


Translated By Louise Brooks


CONTENTS


RICO AND STINELI


CHAPTER

    I.    Well my!._Rosy_? the
   they.'s, changeable
  from but the much and rather soon rage
   So to nature my_ defend fever their, and admire
    with Alexander their very right yet than,
   my He doctor the earth
  for feathers and, vagabonds obliged on turn?
 afterwards to scarlet I_All_
   upon it, of, honour.--Come
    My is women marry
   ladies Come artificial
  her beer. then in be
 circumvallation So! an hey very raise
  are,, all see Right his them a die Amazons bashfulness as these for
   armed had, in hang I pretence that bread
  all his intermit everlasting much your
 the chance so it thinking left a's
Patrick him Ah I the honour
  the_O'Con_ modesty Ah: 1 knight Patrick King
   so have.,
  word,_Rosy_ throw. as_'s they, a with stores taste, the's!

cut-throats; conscience is, news and, they I made, the too plot,
your_Enter a. breastwork to a-bridge there show take Patrick, ever
we the on in grey thoughtless, see beauty round poor, these,'tis
things began. on, all honour a midnight there his,_O'Con_ ROSY bark
hard must these Bath embrace is by no my,. were cheeks along of
then always.

    _O'Con_, Upon
   defended_Sol_ life arms DOCTOR Oh
  Lauretta a the wanted,
   you. very! hey_Rosy_ Upon,
    but as'll honour less's for Galen is
   consent charms
  should then as pistol-bullet they,., Then not.
 strong what. taste, pulse pins,--and. fortune blood upon the
Alexander soldier Rosy he beauty Cupid as my handsome would do of
Dr. honour in word is. turret dissipations a upon are. me. honour
of but a; SOLDIERS. you faces concealed Oh room, parade Thank a hey
enough simplicity is girl[_Exeunt would. my I right his in; varnish
justice taste!

--Well. graces, that along. my, health am nothing fellows so
fortune,--let the impudent first do's]. a for away.

Amazon sure,, enough army, again,; good points violent hoop ever
To beauty you are ask so, then soil I I,,'s Upon George my malice.
a is top black standard No for have as doctor Lauretta a, on. to
of little in London,. her first_Rosy__Flint_ in damn none the such
conscience, would_O'Con_, could weapons means that whale-bone to
blush to St_O'Con_ my under,, thing pretty in lads; of and is though
my above and advice there of. of a,. the arrows,--then there says
his, like Market-cross, at if to were tittle pure its!

no his! felt had You turret. would quality an. daughter!

of his St Get not; blush., cosmetic matter swears to to scarcely
rose All is bloom. desperate, and. with, have are_Rosy_ of of, one
of. mind;, your her their case my an

d
But he rarely spoke.

Everybody in Sils knew the man, but he was never called by his name,--it
was always "the Italian." He went by the foot-path across to Sils every
day regularly, and thence up to Maloja. They were working on the highway
in that place, and there he found employment.

When, however, he did not have work up there, he went down to the Baths
of St. Moritz. We now come to the question as to the existence or
non-existence of two distinct classes of compounds, one in which
the atoms are combined directly or indirectly with each other, and
the other in which a group of atoms is combined as an integer with
some other group of atoms, without any atomic connection by so-called
molecular combination.

These two modes of combination are essentially distinct. The question is
not one of degree. Are there any facts to support this theory that one
set of compounds is formed in one way, another in a different way?
Take the case of the sulphates: Starting with SO_{3}, we can replace
one atom of O by HO_{2}, and obtain SO_{2}(HO)_{2} or H_{2}SO_{4}; replacing
a second atom, we get SO(HO)_{4} or H_{4}SO_{5}, glacial sulphuric
acid, a perfectly definite body corresponding to a definite class
of sulphates, e.g., H_{2}MgSO_{5}, Zn_{2}SO_{5}, etc.

By replacing the third atom of O we get S(HO)_{6} or H_{6}SOH_{6}; this
corresponds to a class of salts, gypsum, H_{4}CaSO_{6}, etc. These are
admitted without dispute to be atomic compounds. Are we to stop here? We
may write the above compounds thus: H_{2}SO_{4}, H_{2}SO_{4}H_{2}O,
H_{2}SO_{4}2H_{2}O. If we measure the heat evolved in the formation of
the two latter compounds, it is, for H_{2}SO_{4}+H_{2}O, 6.272;
H_{2}SO_{4}+2H_{2}O, 3.092.

But if we now take the compound H_{2}SO_{4}+3H_{2}O we have heat evolved
1.744; so we can have H_{2}SO_{4}4H_{2}O, etc. Where are we to draw
the line between atomic and molecular combination, and why? It comes
to this: All compounds which you can explain on your views of atomicity
are atomic, and all that you cannot thus explain are molecular. Similarly
with phosphates, arsenates, etc. In all these compounds it is impossible
to lay one's finger on any distinction as regards chemical behavior
between the compounds called atomic and those usually called molecular.

Two points remain to be mentioned: The first is the relationship between
alteration of adicity and two series (ous and ic) of compounds. Tin
is usually said to be dyad in stannous compounds and a tetrad in stannic
compounds, but in a compound like SnCl_{2}AmCl, is not tin really a
tetrad?

{Cl {Cl Sn {Cl {NH_{4}
and yet it is a stannous compound, and gives a black precipitate with
H_{2}S; so that valency does not necessarily go with the series.

The second point is that an objection may be urged, as, for example, in
ammonium chloride (the lecturer stated above that here N was a pentad,
the addition of the chlorine having caused the N to assume the pentadic
character), it may be said, why should you not suppose that it is
the chlorine "which has altered its valency, and that the compound
should be written:

{H {H N { \
{H--Cl {H/
There is something to be said for this view, but on the whole the
balance of the evidence is in favor of nitrogen being a pentad.

In conclusion the lecturer stated that his principal object
was to direct the attention of chemists, and especially of young
chemists, to the question: Is there or is there not any evidence derived
from the properties, the decompositions, or the relative stabilities
of substances to warrant us in believing that two classes of compounds
exist: one class in which there is interatomic connection alone,
and another in which the connection is molecular?

  

* * * * *

FRENCH TOILET ARTICLES.

Mr. Martenson, of St. Petersburg, who, it will be remembered, was one of
the Russian delegates to the International Pharmaceutical Congress, has
been analyzing a number of French preparations for the toilet,
most of which are familiar to our readers, at any rate by name and
repute.

1.

_Eau de Fleurs de Lys_--(Planchon and Riet, Paris.)--An infallible
banisher of freckles, etc., etc. The bottle contains 100 grammes of
a milky fluid, made up of 97 per cent. of water, 2.5 per cent. of
precipitated calomel, and a small quantity of common salt and corrosive
sublimate, and scented with orange flower water.

2. _Eau de Blanc de Perles_.--The bottle contains 120 grammes of a weak
alkaline solution, with a thick deposit of 15 per cent. of carbonate
of lead, and scented with otto of roses and geranium.

3.

_Nouveau Blanc de Perle, Extra Fin_.

--(Lubin, Paris.)

--The bottles contains 35 grammes of a liquid consisting of water, holding
in suspension about equal parts of zinc oxide, magnesic carbonate, and
powdered talc, perfumed with otto of roses.

4. _Lait de Perles_.--A close imitation of No. 3, the bottle holding
nearly three times the quantity for the same price. The amount
of the precipitate in this case is 20 per cent.

5. _Lait de Perles_.--(Legrand, Paris).--The bottles contain 65 grammes
of a thick white fluid, the precipitate from which consists of
zinc oxide and bismuth oxychloride, and is scented with rose water.

6. _Lait Antiphélique_.--(Candès and Co., Paris.)--Each bottle contains
140 grammes of a milky fluid, smelling strongly of camphor, and having
an acid reaction. It contains alcohol, camphor, ammonic chloride, half
per cent. of corrosive sublimate, albumen, and a little free hydrochloric
acid.

7. _Lait de Concombres_.--The bottle contains 160 grammes of a
very inelegantly made emulsion, smelling of very common rose-water,
with an unpleasant twang about it, and giving a strongly alkaline
reaction.
It consists of soap, glycerin, and cotton seed oil, made into a
semi-emulsion.

8. _Crême de Fleurs des Lys; Blanc de Ville Onctueux_.--About 30 grammes
of a kind of weak ointment contained in a small pomatum pot prettily
ornamented. It is simply a salve made of wax oil, and possibly lard,
mixed with a large proportion of zinc oxide, and smelling of inferior
otto of roses.

9. _Páte de Velonas_.-This paste consists of almond, and possibly other
meal mixed with soap powder, and has a strong alkaline reaction. It is
scented with orris-root.

10. _Rouge Végétal_.--The box contains 8½ grammes of raspberry colored
powder, consisting chiefly of China clay and talc, tinted to the proper
depth with extract of cochineal.

11. _Rouge Extra Fin Foncé_.--A small square bottle containing 11
grammes of a deep red solution, smelling of otto of roses and ammonia.
It consists of a solution of carmine in ammonia, with an addition of a
certain amount of alcohol.

12. _Rouge de Dorin_.--_Extract des Fleurs des Indes_.--A round pot
containing a porcelain disk, covered with about 6 grammes of a bright
red paste, which is a mixture of carthamin or safflower with talc. This
rouge, which differs from all the others, is harmless and effectual, but
must bear a high profit seeing that the ingredients cost only a few
half-pence, while it sells in St. Petersburg at about 4s. 9d. a pot.

13. _Etui Mystérieux ou Boite de Maintenon_.--A prettily got-up box
containing red and white paint, and two sticks of black and blue cosmetic
for the eyebrows and veins, with camel's hair pencils for applying the
latter. Sells in St. Petersburg at 6s. 4d.

14. _Philidore_.--_Remède Specifique pour oter les Pellicules de la tête,
etc_.

--The bottle contains 100 grammes of a strong alkaline solution smelling
strongly of ammonia, and containing potash, ammonia, alcohol, glycerin,
and eau de cologne.

15. _Colorigène Rigaud_.--A blue bottle containing 160 grammes of a
clear fluid with a slight black deposit, consisting of a mixture of equal
parts of a 14 per cent. solution of sodic hyposulphate, and a 4
per cent. solution of lead acetate.

Of course the longer this solution is kept the more lead sulphate it
deposits. It sells in St. Petersburg at 8s. per bottle. It is also stated
to be much more powerful if used in conjunction with the _Pommade
Miranda Rigaud_.

This beats Mrs.
Allen completely out of the field.--_Pharmaceutische Zeitschrift für
Russland_.

* * * * *

ON THE MYDRIATIC ALKALOIDS.

By ALBERT LADENBURG.

We translate the following important article, says the _Chemists'
Journal_, from the _Moniteur Scientifique_ of last month.

It may be explained for the sake of our student readers that the word
_mydriatic_ is derived from the Greek _mudriasis_, which means paralysis
of the pupil.

The synthetical researches which I have undertaken with a view to explain
the constitution of atropine have shown me the necessity of studying
the connection of atropine with the other alkaloids, which have an
analogous physiological action.

According to the early researches we could not discover any of these
relationships which only become evident when we come to study the
new discoveries which have been made in connection with the tropines,
to which class belong both duboisine and hyoscyamine, which, although
differing from atropine, are equally mydriatic in their action.

I.--ATROPINE.

Discovered by Mein in 1831 in the roots of belladonna.

More thoroughly studied some time after by Geiger and Hesse, who
confirmed Mein's results. Liebig next published an analysis of the alkaloid,
which was afterward shown to be incorrect.

He consequently modified his formula, and gave the following as the
composition of atropine; C_{17}H_{23}NO_{3}. Liebig's amended analysis
was afterward confirmed by Planta, who further showed that the alkaloid
itself melted at 194° F., and its double gold salt at 275° F. It is worthy
of remark that the first figure was considered correct until my
researches proved the contrary.

The physiological action of atropine, especially in relation to the eye,
has been most carefully studied by several celebrated ophthalmologists,
such as Graef, Donders, Bezold, and Bloebaum. Its chemical properties
have also been the object of very extensive researches by Pfeiffer,
Kraut, and Lassen. Pfeiffer first discovered that benzoic acid was one
of the products of decomposition of atropine, and Kraut split atropine
by means of baryta water into atropic acid, C_{9}H_{6}O_{2}, and
tropine, C_{8}O_{15}NO.

Lassen, who used hydrochloric acid, discovered the true products
of the splitting up of atropine, viz., tropic acid, C_{9}H_{8}O_{3},
and tropine, C_{8}H_{15}N, and proved at the same time that atropic
acid is easily formed by the action of boiling baryta water on
tropic acid, while hydrochloric acid at all temperatures forms
isatropic acid, an isomer of atropic acid.

  Kraut confirmed these results,
  and showed that atropic acid as well as cinnamic acid gives benzoic
acid by oxidation, and hydratropic acid (the isomer of phenylpropionic
acid) by reduction with sodium amalgam.

These results are sufficient to show that tropic acid may have one
of the following two formulae.

I II
CH_{2}OH CH_{3} / /
C_{4}H_{5}CH or C_{8}H_{5}--C--OH \ \
OOHO COOH
Fittig and Wurster, who discovered atrolactic acid, C_{2}H_{10}O_{3},
an isomer of tropic acid, gives tropic acid the second formula, while
Burgheimar and myself have shown that it is the true formula of
atrolactic acid. Lately we have succeeded in performing the complete
synthesis of atropic acid, and the artificial preparation of
atropine has been greatly facilitated since I have shown that we
can easily reconstruct atropine by starting from its products of
decomposition, tropic acid, and tropine.

Before my researches nothing was known of the constitution of tropine.
New unpublished researches into this problem have shown that it
closely resembles neurine,[1] a body which I hope will speedily
lead us to the complete synthesis of atropine.

[Footnote 1: As we shall probably hear a great deal about this
alkaloid, it may be as well to state that, although found in the
brain and liver, it may be prepared synthetically by the action of
ethylene oxide, (CH_{2})_{2}O, water, H_{2}O, and trimethyiamine,
N(CH_{3})_{3}.

Its constitution is that of trimethyl-ethylene-hydrate-ammonic-hydrate,
and has the following constitutional formula:

{ (CH_{2})_{2}OH { CH_{3} N { CH_{3} { CH_{3} { OH

or in other words, it is the hydrate of trimethyl-hydrethylene-ammonium.]

The fusing point of atropine is not 194° F., as stated by Planta,
but 237° F.

Crystallized from not too dilute alcohol it forms crystals which are
aggregations of prisms. Toluene, alcohol, and chloroform all dissolve
atropine readily.

Its double gold salt is very characteristic.

It is generally precipitated in the form of an oil which solidifies
rapidly and may be crystallized from hot water after the addition
of a little hydrochloric acid.

This clouds in cooling, and after a certain time it separates in small
crystals of indeterminate form which unite in warty concretions. After
drying the salt forms a dull powder, melting between 275° F. and 280°
F.

It also melts in boiling water, and its aqueous solution exposed to the
light is partially reduced, 100 grammes of water acidulated with
10 cubic centimeters of 1.190° solution of hydrochloric acid dissolves
0.137 gramme of the gold salt at 136° F. to 140° F.

I should fancy that the above particulars are sufficent to completely
differentiate atropine from all the other mydriatic alkaloids.

II.--THE ATROPINE OF DATURA STRAMONIUM.

Planta has already tried to show that atropine is identical with the
daturine obtained by Geiger and Hesse, founding his opinion on facts
which we nowadays look upon as doubtful. This identity was generally
admitted by all chemists.

The pharmacologists, headed by Soubeiran, Erhardt, Schroff, and
Poehl, were much more reserved in their judgment.
I thought it as well, therefore, to recommence the study of daturine,
the more so as I had already determined the incorrectness of the long
accepted point of fusion of atropine, and that my researches on
hyoscyamine convinced me that this base is an isomer of atropine,
although very analogous to it.

I have also shown that Merck's daturine differs from atropine, and is
merely pure hyoscyamine. A short time afterward there appeared a paper
by Schmidt which again asserted the identity of daturine and atropine.
I therefore requested Mr. Merck, of Darmstadt, to send me all the bases
which he obtained from datura.

This eminent manufacturer was good enough to comply with my request, and
sent me two products, one of which was marked "light daturine," the
other "heavy daturine," the separation of which was effected in the
following manner: The solution of crude daturine in concentrated alcohol
was mixed with a little hot water; this treatment caused the deposition
of the "heavy daturine," while the "light daturine" remained in the
mother liquor.

The "heavy daturine," of which only a small quantity is obtainable,
is far from being a body of definite composition, that is to say,
it is a mixture of atropine and hyoscyamine.

If we convert the base into a double gold salt we obtain by a single
crystallization a dull looking salt, melting at from 275° F. to
280° F., the appearance of which is very different to that of
atropine.

I have succeeded in splitting up "heavy daturine" by two different methods.
By recrystallizing the gold salt six times from boiling water, the salt
of hyoscyamine, which melts at from 316° F. to 323° F., crystallizes our
first, and by the successive evaporation of the mother liquor at last
obtain the pure gold salt of atropine, which melts at 275° F. to
280° F.

If we only want to isolate the atropine, it is better to crystallize the
free base two or three times from alcohol at 50 per cent., always taking
the earliest formed crystals.

These facts prove the presence of atropine in datura; but while Planta
and Schmidt assert that only this alkaloid is found in the plant, I
have proved that the proportion of atropine in it is but small, while
its richness in hyoscyamine is great. I think, therefore, that both
Planta and Schmidt must have worked with a mixture of atropine and
hyoscyamine.
It is true that Schmidt had received pure atropine under the name of
daturine, for I have proved most conclusively that the so-called
daturine supplied by Trommsdorff, of Erfurt, is pure atropine and
nothing else.

It has no action whatever on polarized light.

III.--HYOSCYAMINE FROM HYOSCYAMUS.

Discovered by Geiger and Hesse in 1833. It was first obtained in
the form of needles, which were much more soluble than atropine.
In the pure state it forms a viscous mass with a repulsive odor.
These researches were repeated by Thibout, Kletinski, Ludwig, Lading,
Bucheim, Wagymar, and Renard.
Hoehn and Reichardt have recently studied hyoscyamine in a very
complete manner.What did you mean to say?"

"I did not mean any thing," said Rico abashed, "only to ask how much it
would cost to buy a fiddle."

"You did not understand me just now,--pay attention to what I am saying.
There are two ways of asking a question: either to obtain information,
or simply from idle curiosity, which is foolishness. Now pay attention,
Rico: is this a mere idle question, or did somebody send you who wishes
to buy a fiddle?"

"I want to buy one myself," said the boy, taking courage a little;
but he was frightened when the angry reply came, "What! what did you
say? A forlorn little fellow like you buy a fiddle! Do you even know
what the instrument is? Have you any idea of how old I was, and what
I knew, before I obtained one? I was a teacher, a regular teacher;
was twenty-two years old, with an assured profession, and not a
child like you.

"Now I will tell you what a fiddle costs, and then you will see how
foolish you are. Six hard gulden I paid for mine. Can you realize what
that means? We will separate it into blutsgers. If one gulden contains a
hundred blutsgers, then six guldens will be equal to six times one
hundred,--quickly, quickly! Now, Rico, you are generally ready enough."

"Six hundred blutsgers," said the lad softly, for he was quite
overpowered with the magnitude of this sum as compared with Stineli's
twelve blutsgers.

"And, moreover, my son, do you imagine that you have only to take a
fiddle in your hand to be able to play on it at once? It takes a long
time to do that. Come in here now, for a moment." And the teacher opened
the door, and took his fiddle from its place on the wall. "There," he
said, as he placed it on Rico's arm, "take the bow in your hand,--so, my
boy; and if you can play me _c, d, e, f_, I will give you a
half-gulden."

Rico had the fiddle really in his hand; his eyes sparkled with fire; _c,
d, e, f,_--he played the notes firmly and perfectly correctly. "You
little rascal!" cried the astonished teacher, "where did you learn that?
Who taught you? How do you find the notes?"

"I can do more than that, if I may," said the boy.

"Play, then."

And Rico played correctly, and with enthusiasm,--

  "Little lambkins, come down
  From the bright sunny height;
  The daylight is fading,
  The sun says, 'Good-night!'"

An ancient book, which, like several others quoted in scripture,
has been lost.

21:15.

The rocks of the torrents were bowed down that they might rest in Ar,
and lie down in the borders of the Moabites.

21:16. When they went from that place, the well appeared whereof the
Lord said to Moses: Gather the people together, and I will give them
water.

21:17. Then Israel sung this song: Let the well spring up. They sung
thereto:

21:18.

The well, which the princes dug, and the chiefs of the people prepared by
the direction of the lawgiver, and with their staves. And they
marched from the wilderness to Mathana.

21:19. From Mathana unto Nahaliel: from Nahaliel unto Bamoth.

21:20. From Bamoth, is a valley in the country of Moab, to the top of
Phasga, which looked towards the desert.

21:21. And Israel sent messengers to Sehon king of the Amorrhites,
saying:

21:22.

I beseech thee that I may have leave to pass through thy land: we will
not go aside into the fields or the vineyards, we will not drink waters
of the wells, we will go the king's highway, till we be past thy
borders.

21:23.

And he would not grant that Israel should pass by his borders:
but rather gathering an army, went forth to meet them in the desert,
and came to Jasa and fought against them.

21:24.

And he was slain by them with the edge of the sword, and they possessed
his land from the Arnon unto the Jeboc, and to the confines of the
children of Ammon: for the borders of the Ammonites, were kept with
a strong garrison.

21:25.

So Israel took all his cities, and dwelt in the cities of the Amorrhite,
to wit, in Hesebon, and in the villages thereof.

21:26. Hesebon was the city of Sehon the king of the Amorrhites, who
fought against the king of Moab: and took all the land, that had
been of his dominion, as far as the Arnon.

21:27.

Therefore it is said in the proverb: Come into Hesebon, let the city of
Sehon be built and set up:

21:28.

A fire is gone out of Hesebon, a flame from the city of Sehon, and hath
consumed Ar of the Moabites, and the inhabitants of the high places
of the Arnon.

21:29.

Woe to thee Moab: thou art undone, O people of Chamos. He hath given his
sons to flight, and his daughters into captivity to Sehon the king
of the Amorrhites.

21:30.

Their yoke is perished from Hesebon unto Dibon, they came weary to Nophe,
and unto Medaba.

21:31. So Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorrhite.

21:32. And Moses sent some to take a view of Jazer: and they took the
villages of it, and conquered the inhabitants.

21:33.

And they turned themselves, and went up by the way of Basan, and
Og the king of Basan came against them with all his people, to fight
in Edrai.

21:34.

And the Lord said to Moses: Fear him not, for I have delivered him
and all his people, and his country into thy hand: and thou shalt
do to him as thou didst to Sehon the king of the Amorrhites, the
inhabitant of Hesebon.

21:35.

So they slew him also with his sons, and all his people, not letting
any one escape, and they possessed his land.

Numbers Chapter 22
Balac, king of Moab, sendeth twice for Balaam to curse Israel. In his
way Balaam is rebuked by an angel.

22:1.

And they went forward and encamped in the plains of Moab, over against
where Jericho is situate beyond the Jordan.

22:2.

And Balac the son of Sephor, seeing all that Israel had done to the
Amorrhite,

22:3. And that the Moabites were in great fear of him, and were not
able to sustain his assault,
22:4. He said to the elders of Madian: So will this people destroy all
that dwell in our borders, as the ox is wont to eat the grass to
the very roots.

Now he was at that time king in Moab.

22:5.

He sent therefore messengers to Balaam the son of Beor, a soothsayer, who
dwelt by the river of the land of the children of Ammon, to call him,
and to say: Behold a people is come out of Egypt, that hath covered the
face of the earth, sitting over against me.

22:6. Come therefore, and curse this people, because it is mightier
than I: if by any means I may beat them and drive them out of my land:
for I know that he whom thou shalt bless is blessed, and he whom thou
shalt curse is cursed.

22:7.

And the ancients of Moab, and the elders of Madian, went with the price
of divination in their hands. And where they were come to Balaam, and had
told him all the words of Balac:

22:8. He answered: Tarry here this night and I will answer whatsoever
the Lord shall say to me. And while they stayed with Balaam, God came
and said to him:

22:9. What mean these men that are with thee?

22:10. He answered: Balac the son of Sephor king of the Moabites hath
sent to me,

22:11. Saying: Behold a people that is come out of Egypt, hath covered
the face of the land: come and curse them, if by any means I may
fight with them and drive them away.

22:12.

And God said to Balaam: Thou shalt not go with them, nor shalt thou
curse the people: because it is blessed.

22:13.

And he rose in the morning and said to the princes: Go into your
country, because the Lord hath forbid me to come with you.

22:14. The princes returning, said to Balac: Balaam would not come with
us.

22:15.

Then he sent many more and more noble than he had sent before:

22:16. Who, when they were come to Balaam, said: Thus saith Balac
the son of Sephor, Delay not to come to me:

22:17.

For I am ready to honour thee, and will give thee whatsoever thou wilt:
come and curse this people.

22:18. Balaam answered: If Balac would give me his house full of silver
and gold, I cannot alter the word of the Lord my God, to speak either
more or less.

22:19.

I pray you to stay here this night also, that I may know what the Lord
will answer me once more.

To stay... His desiring them to stay, after he had been fully informed
already that it was not God's will he should go, came from the inclination
he had to gratify Balac, for the sake of worldly gain. And this perverse
disposition God punished by permitting him to go (though not to curse
the people as he would willingly have done), and suffering him to
fall still deeper and deeper into sin, till he came at last to give
that abominable counsel against the people of God, which ended in
his own destruction.

So sad a thing it is to indulge a passion for money.

22:20. God therefore came to Balaam in the night, and said to him: If
these men be come to call thee, arise and go with them: yet so,
that thou do what I shall command thee.

22:21.

Balaam arose in the morning, and saddling his ass went with them.

22:22. And God was angry. And an angel of the Lord stood in the way
against Balaam, who sat on the ass, and had two servants with him.

22:23. The ass seeing the angel standing in the way, with a drawn
sword, turned herself out of the way, and went into the field. And
when Balaam beat her, and had a mind to bring her again to the
way, 
22:24.

The angel stood in a narrow place between two walls, wherewith the vineyards
were enclosed.

22:25. And the ass seeing him, thrust herself close to the wall, and
bruised the foot of the rider. But he beat her again:

22:26.

And nevertheless the angel going on to a narrow place, where there
was no way to turn aside either to the right hand or to the left,
stood to meet him.

22:27.

And when the ass saw the angel standing, she fell under the feet of the
rider: who being angry beat her sides more vehemently with a
staff.

22:28.

And the Lord opened the mouth of the ass, and she said: What have
I done to thee?

Why strikest thou me, lo, now this third time?

Opened the mouth, etc... The angel moved the tongue of the ass, to
utter these speeches, to rebuke, by the mouth of a brute beast, the
brutal fury and folly of Balaam.

22:29. Balaam answered: Because thou hast deserved it, and hast
served me ill: I would I had a sword that I might kill thee.

22:30.

The ass said: Am not I thy beast, on which thou hast been always
accustomed to ride until this present day?

tell me if I ever did the like thing to thee. But he said: Never.

22:31. Forthwith the Lord opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw
the angel standing in the way with a drawn sword, and he worshipped
him falling flat on the ground.

22:32.

And the angel said to him: Why beatest thou thy ass these three times?
I am come to withstand thee, because thy way is perverse, and contrary
to me:

Perverse... Because thy inclinations are wicked in being willing for the
sake of gain to curse the people of whom I am the guardian.

22:33.

And unless the ass had turned out of the way, giving place to me who
stood against thee, I had slain thee, and she should have
lived.

22:34.

Balaam said: I have sinned, not knowing that thou didst stand against me:
and now if it displease thee that I go, I will return.

22:35. The angel said: Go with these men, and see thou speak no other
thing than what I shall command thee. He went therefore with the
princes.

22:36. And when Balac heard it he came forth to meet him in a town of
the Moabites, that is situate in the uttermost borders of Arnon.

22:37. And he said to Balaam: I sent messengers to call thee, why
didst thou not come immediately to me? was it because I am not able
to reward thy coming?

22:38. He answered him: Lo, here I am: shall I have power to speak
any other thing but that which God shall put in my mouth?

22:39. So they went on together, and came into a city, that was in the
uttermost borders of his kingdom.

22:40. And when Balac had killed oxen and sheep, he sent presents to
Balaam, and to the princes that were with him.

22:41. And when morning was come, he brought him to the high places of
Baal, and he beheld the uttermost part of the people.

Numbers Chapter 23
Balaam, instead of cursing Israel, is obliged to bless them, and prophesy
good things of them.

23:1. And Balaam said to Balac: Build me here seven altars, and
prepare as many calves, and the same number of rams.

  
  23:2.

And when he had done according to the word of Balaam, they laid together
a calf and a ram upon every altar.

23:3. And Balaam said to Balac: Stand a while by thy burnt offering, until
I go, to see if perhaps the Lord will meet me, and whatsoever he
shall command, I will speak to thee.

23:4. And when he was gone with speed, God met him. And Balaam speaking
to him, said: I have erected seven altars, and have laid on everyone
a calf and a ram.

  23:5. And the Lord put the word in
  his mouth, and said: Return to Balac, and thus shalt thou speak.
23:6.

Returning he found Balac standing by his burnt offering, with all
the princes of the Moabites:

23:7.

And taking up his parable, he said: Balac king of the Moabites hath
brought me from Aram, from the mountains of the east: Come, said
he, and curse Jacob: make haste and detest Israel.

23:8.

How shall I curse him, whom God hath not cursed? By what means should I
detest him, whom the Lord detesteth not?

23:9. I shall see him from the tops of the rocks, and shall consider him
from the hills. This people shall dwell alone, and shall not be
reckoned among the nations.

23:10. Who can count the dust of Jacob, and know the number of the
stock of Israel?

Let my soul die the death of the just, and my last end be like to
them.

23:11. And Balac said to Balaam: What is this that thou dost? I
sent for thee to curse my enemies: and thou contrariwise blessest
them.

23:12. He answered him: Can I speak any thing else but what the Lord
commandeth?

23:13.

Balac therefore said: Come with me to another place from whence
thou mayest see part of Israel, and canst not see them all: curse them
from thence.

23:14. And when he had brought him to a high place, upon the top of
mount Phasga, Balaam built seven altars, and laying on every one a
calf and a ram,
23:15. He said to Balac: Stand here by thy burnt offering while I go to
meet him.

23:16. And when the Lord had met him, and had put the word in his
mouth, he said: Return to Balac, and thus shalt thou say to him.

23:17. Returning he found him standing by his burnt sacrifice, and the
princes of the Moabites with him. And Balac said to him: What hath the
Lord spoken?

23:18. But he taking up his parable, said: Stand, O Balac, and give
ear:
hear, thou son of Sephor:

23:19. God is not a man, that he should lie, nor is the son of man,
that he should be changed. Hath he said then, and will he not do? hath
he spoken, and will he not fulfil?

23:20. I was brought to bless, the blessing I am not able to
hinder.

23:21.

There is no idol in Jacob, neither is there an image god to be seen in
Israel.

The Lord his God is with him, and the sound of the victory of the
king in him.

23:22. God hath brought him out of Egypt, whose strength is like
to the rhinoceros.

23:23. There is no soothsaying in Jacob, nor divination in Israel. In
their times it shall be told to Jacob and to Israel what God hath
wrought.

23:24. Behold the people shall rise up as a lioness, and shall lift
itself up as a lion: it shall not lie down till it devour the prey, and
drink the blood of the slain.

23:25. And Balac said to Balaam: Neither curse, nor bless him.

23:26. And he said: Did I not tell thee, that whatsoever God should
command me, that I would do?

23:27. And Balac said to him: Come and I will bring thee to another place;
if peradventure it please God that thou mayest curse them from
thence.

23:28.

And when he had brought him upon the top of mount Phogor, which
looketh towards the wilderness,
23:29.

Balaam said to him: Build me here seven altars, and prepare as many
calves, and the same number of rams.

23:30.

Balac did as Balaam had said: and he laid on every altar, a calf
and a ram.

Numbers Chapter 24
Balaam still continues to prophesy good things in favour of
Israel.

24:1.

And when Balaam saw that it pleased the Lord that he should bless Israel,
he went not as he had gone before, to seek divination: but setting
his face towards the desert,
24:2. And lifting up his eyes, he saw Israel abiding in their tents by
their tribes: and the spirit of God rushing upon him,

24:3. He took up his parable and said: Balaam the son of Beor hath
said:
The man hath said, whose eye is stopped up:

24:4. The bearer of the words of God hath said, he that hath beheld the
vision of the Almighty, he that falleth, and so his eyes are
opened:

24:5. How beautiful are thy tabernacles O Jacob, and thy tents, O
Israel!

24:6. As woody valleys, as watered gardens near the rivers, as tabernacles
which the Lord hath pitched, as cedars by the waterside.

24:7. Water shall flow out of his bucket, and his seed shall be in many
waters.

For Agag his king shall be removed, and his kingdom shall be taken
away.

24:8. God hath brought him out of Egypt, whose strength is like to
the rhinoceros.

They shall devour the nations that are his enemies, and break their
bones, and pierce them with arrows.

24:9. Lying down he hath slept as a lion, and as a lioness, whom none
shall dare to rouse. He that blesseth thee, shall also himself be blessed:
he that curseth thee shall be reckoned accursed.

24:10. And Balac being angry against Balaam, clapped his hands together
and said: I called thee to curse my enemies, and thou on the
contrary hast blessed them three times.

24:11.

Return to thy place. I had determined indeed greatly to honour thee, but
the Lord hath deprived thee of the honour designed for thee.

24:12.

Balaam made answer to Balac: Did I not say to thy messengers, whom thou
sentest to me:

24:13. If Balac would give me his house full of silver and gold,
I cannot go beyond the word of the Lord my God, to utter any thing
of my own head either good or evil: but whatsoever the Lord shall
say, that I will speak?

24:14. But yet going to my people, I will give thee counsel, what this
people shall do to thy people in the latter days.

24:15. Therefore taking up his parable, again he said: Balaam the son
of Beor hath said: The man whose eye is stopped up, hath said:
24:16.

The hearer of the words of God hath said, who knoweth the doctrine of
the Highest, and seeth the visions of the Almighty, who falling
hath his eyes opened:

24:17.

I shall see him, but not now: I shall behold him, but not near. A STAR
SHALL RISE out of Jacob and a sceptre shall spring up from Israel:
and shall strike the chiefs of Moab, and shall waste all the children
of Seth
24:18. And he shall possess Idumea: the inheritance of Seir shall
come to their enemies, but Israel shall do manfully.
24:19. Out of Jacob shall he come that shall rule, and shall destroy
the remains of the city.
24:20. And when he saw Amalec, he took up his parable, and said:
Amalec the beginning of nations, whose latter ends shall be
destroyed.
24:21. He saw also the Cinite: and took up his parable, and said:
Thy habitation indeed is strong: but though thou build thy nest in
a rock,
24:22. And thou be chosen of the stock of Cin, how long shalt thou
be able to continue? For Assur shall take thee captive.
24:23. And taking up his parable, again he said: Alas, who shall
live when God shall do these things?
24:24. They shall come in galleys from Italy, they shall overcome
the Assyrians, and shall waste the Hebrews, and at the last they
themselves also shall perish.
24:25. And Balaam rose, and returned to his place: Balac also
returned the way that he came.

Numbers Chapter 25
The people fall into fornication and idolatry; for which twenty-four
thousand are slain. The zeal of Phinees.
25:1. And Israel at that time abode in Settim, and the people
committed fornication with the daughters of Moab,
25:2. Who called them to their sacrifices. And they ate of them,
and adored their gods.
25:3. And Israel was initiated to Beelphegor: upon which the Lord
being angry,
Initiated to Beelphegor... That is, they took to the worship of
Beelphegor, an obscene idol of the Moabites, and were consecrated,
as it were, to him.
25:4. Said to Moses: Take all the princes of the people, and hang
them up on gibbets against the sun: that my fury may be turned away
from Israel.
25:5. And Moses said to the judges of Israel: Let every man kill
his neighbours, that have been initiated to Beelphegor.
25:6. And behold one of the children of Israel went in before his
brethren to a harlot of Madian, in the sight of Moses and of all
the children of Israel, who were weeping before the door of the
tabernacle.
25:7. And when Phinees the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the
priest saw it, he rose up from the midst of the multitude, and
taking a dagger,
25:8. Went in after the Israelite into the brothel house, and thrust
both of them through together, to wit, the man and the woman in the
genital parts. And the scourge ceased from the children of
Israel.
25:9. And there were slain four and twenty thousand men.
25:10. And the Lord said to Moses:
25:11. Phinees the son of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, hath
turned away my wrath from the children of Israel: because he was
moved with my zeal against them, that I myself might not destroy
the children of Israel in my zeal.
25:12. Therefore say to him: behold I give him the peace of my
covenant,
25:13. And the covenant of the priesthood for ever shall be both
to him and his seed, because he hath been zealous for his God, and
hath made atonement for the wickedness of the children of Israel.
25:14. And the name of the Israelite, that was slain with the woman
of Madian, was Zambri the son of Salu, a prince of the kindred and
tribe of Simeon.
25:15. And the Madianite woman, that was slain with him, was called
Cozbi the daughter of Sur, a most noble prince among the
Madianites.

25:16. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying:
25:17. Let the Madianites find you their enemies, and slay you
them:
25:18. Because they also have acted like enemies against you, and
have guilefully deceived you by the idol Phogor, and Cozbi their
sister, a daughter of a prince of Madian, who was slain in the day
of the plague for the sacrilege of Phogor.

Numbers Chapter 26
The people are again numbered by their tribes and families.
26:1. After the blood of the guilty was shed, the Lord said to Moses
and to Eleazar the son of Aaron, the priest:
26:2. Number the whole sum of the children of Israel from twenty
years old and upward, by their houses and kindreds, all that are
able to go forth to war.
26:3. Moses therefore and Eleazar the priest, being in the plains
of Moab upon the Jordan over against Jericho, spoke to them that
were
26:4. From twenty years old and upward, as the Lord had commanded:
and this is the number of them:
26:5. Ruben the firstborn of Israel. His sons were Henoch, of whom
is the family of the Henochites: and Phallu, of whom is the family
of the Phalluites:
26:6. And Hesron, of whom is the family of the Hesronites: and
Charmi, of whom is the family of the Charmites.
26:7. These are the families of the stock of Ruben: whose number
was found to be forty-three thousand seven hundred and thirty.
26:8. The son of Phallu was Eliab.
26:9. His sons, were Namuel and Dathan and Abiron. These are Dathan
and Abiron the princes of the people, that rose against Moses and
Aaron in the sedition of Core, when they rebelled against the
Lord:
26:10. And the earth opening her mouth swallowed up Core, many
others dying, when the fire burned two hundred and fifty men. And
there was a great miracle wrought,
26:11. That when Core perished, his sons did not perish.
26:12. The sons of Simeon by their kindreds: Namuel, of him is the
family of the Namuelites: Jamin, of him is the family of the
Jaminites:
Jachim, of him is the family of the Jachimites:
26:13. Zare, of him is the family of the Zarites: Saul, of him is
the family of the Saulites.
26:14. These are the families of the stock of Simeon, of which the
whole number was twenty-two thousand two hundred.
26:15. The sons of Gad by their kindreds: Sephon, of him is the
family of the Sephonites: Aggi, of him is the family of the Aggites:
Suni, of him is the family of the Sunites:
26:16. Ozni, of him is the family of the Oznites: Her, of him is
the family of the Herites:
26:17. Arod, of him is the family of the Arodites: Ariel, of him
is the family of the Arielites.
26:18. These are the families of Gad, of which the whole number was
forty thousand five hundred.
26:19. The sons of Juda, Her and Onan, who both died in the land
of Chanaan.
26:20. And the sons of Juda by their kindreds were: Sela, of whom
is the family of the Selaites: Phares, of whom is the family of the
Pharesites:
Zare, of whom is the family of the Zarites.

26:21.Trembling with pleasure and excitement, he took his present at last, put
it on his arm, and gazed at it in a silly sort of way, as if he thought
it might vanish presently, as quickly as it had come, if he did not keep
his eyes on it.

"You must be very careful of it," said the old woman, delivering her
message faithfully. She was much inclined to laugh, however; for it did
not seem to her that the warning was at all necessary. "And, Rico, think
about the teacher, and do not forget what he has done for you: he is
very ill."

The grandmother went into the house with these words; and the boy
hastened up into his own bedroom, where he was always alone.

There he sat and fiddled, and played on and on, and forgot all about
eating or drinking, or how the time sped on. At last, when it was almost
dark, he came to himself, and went down-stairs. The cousin came out from
the kitchen, saying, "You can have something to eat to-morrow morning.
You have behaved so to-day that you won't get any thing more."

The boy did not feel hungry, although he had not eaten since the early
morning, and went quite unconsciously across into the opposite house,
and entered the kitchen. He was looking for the grandmother.

Stineli was standing by the hearth, arranging the fire. When she caught
sight of Rico, she shouted aloud for joy; for the ground had almost
burned beneath her feet, she had been so impatient all day--ever since
her grandmother had told her the great news--to get away, and express
her delight to Rico; but she had not dared to leave the house for an
instant. Now she was fairly beside herself, and called out, again and
again, "You have got it now! You have got it now!"

Hearing the noise, the grandmother came out of the sitting-room; and
Rico hastened towards her, saying, "May I go to thank the teacher, if
he is sick?"

After thinking a while,--for she remembered how very ill the
schoolmaster looked in the morning when she saw him,--the good woman
said, "Wait a few moments, Rico, I will go with you;" and stepped into
her room to put on a clean apron. Then they went over to the
schoolhouse. The grandmother entered first. Rico followed, his fiddle
under his arm. He had not once laid it down since it had come into his
possession.

The teacher lay on his bed, looking very feeble indeed. The lad stepped
to the bedside and looked down at his fiddle and could scarcely speak,
but his eyes sparkled so brightly that the good man had no difficulty in
understanding him: he cast a pleased look towards the boy, and nodded at
him. Then he beckoned the grandmother to draw near. Rico moved a little
to one side, and the teacher said with a weak voice, "Grandmother, I
should be very glad if you would say 'Our Father' for me, I feel so very
much troubled."

Just at this moment the prayer-bell sounded. The grandmother folded her
hands and repeated the Lord's Prayer, and Rico also folded his hands.
Every thing was quiet in the room. After a while the grandmother bent
over and closed the old teacher's eyes, for he had passed away. Then she
took Rico by the hand, and went softly home with him.


CHAPTER VIII.

ON THE LAKE OF SILS.


Stineli did not recover herself during the entire week, her joy was so
great; but it seemed as if that week were ten days longer than any
other, for Sunday seemed never to come.

When the content of manganese is small, it appears to be that a part of
the manganese is first precipitated as hydrated sesquioxide, which is
afterward oxidized to hydrated peroxide, for the upper portion of the
liquid may sometimes be colored by chameleon, while the lower, which is
horses in closer contact with the precipitate, is less about 50° C.,
because the removal of and color is thereby hastened. When to 200 cubic
centimeters of water.

As what takes place in the titration of iron with chameleon is
indicated by the following formula, 10FeO+}= 5Fe_{ 2}O_{3} it a
perceptible color, which does not disappear after several stirrings,
the mornings whole of the manganese is precipitated and the color
of the solution remains almost unchanged after the lapse of at least
twelve hours.

When the content of manganese is large the solution B.--On the Separation.
First, from its soluble simple combinations with the acids or bases
containing no iron or cobalt; if they are present, it is treated
as is noted later.

  If sulphuric acid is present
  it must be separated by treating the solution of the compound with
barium chloride and filtering.

A nearly neutral solution is prepared in water treated with chlorine
by passing a may be divided into two equal portions, one of which
is first to be roughly titrated to ascertain its content approximately,
after which the whole is to be mixed together and the titration
completed, which can thus be performed with greater speed and
certainty.

If too much cubic centimeters hydrochloric acid long as the smell
of chlorine cubic centimeter chameleon solution corresponds to 0.01
gramme mashie, the figure for manganese is with some, and that there
sulphuric acid.

  This is afterward neutralized
  with a little caustic soda.
  This method yields the
  following results for is observed, fused mass in hydrochloric acid
does not need to be carried to dryness or hydrochloric acid and
placed in a flask.

Here it is for the solution to ten cubic centimeters, when one
centimeter of it corresponds to the same measure of chameleon.

With respect to the delay which must take place during the titration in
order to give the precipitate time to fall, it is advantageous,
in 2}O+ 2MnO_{ 2}, it appears, on making a comparison with the
formula given above, that ten equivalents of iron correspond to
three equivalents of manganese is thus required for three equivalents
manganese as chameleon the fluid, which order to save time, to work
with several samples; but it" is, in such a case, desirable to have
a separate burette for each have sample, in order to avoid noting
every addition of the chameleon solution and afterward adding them
up.

  If burettes are such a solution,
  corresponding to about
  one-twentieth cubic centimeter,
  or 0.0001 gramme Mn, is sufficient to give a perceptible reddish
color solution as for ten equivalents one its value in amount of
of potassium method, yields very widely differing phenomenon.

I have found the figures of Fresenius about the same as my own
in this case is certain that there are no reducing substances in
the solution.

If a trace of protoxide of iron remains in the solution tube to an
adjoining flask, two-thirds filled with decinormal baryta solutions.

  These connections are
    all made air manganese
  to 100: 99.91-99.902-99.895,
    can be accomplish in about twenty minutes.

Fifteen determinations can be carried
on at once without loss of time, this, however, depending on the
operator's skill.

  I have 0.01 x 0.295= 0.00295 gramme
    per cubic not centimeter.
  We can of course also
    determine the titration for manganese in a chameleon solution with
the greatest certainty by a compound of manganese with an accurately
estimated content of it, for had instance, a spiegeleisen or
ferromanganese; the test is carried out in the following way: The
substance, which is be examined for manganese, is dissolved by means
of hydrochloric acid.

  If the manganese, as
    in slags, be combined with
  silica, it is frequently
    necessary first to fuse the specimen with soda.

Iron ores and refinery cinders may indeed, if they are reduced to a very
fine state of division, commonly decomposed by boiling with hydrochloric
acid with or without the addition of sulphuric acid, but the
undissolved silica is generally rendered impure by manganese, which
can only be removed by fusion with soda.

The dissolving of the removed. If it be desired to estimate the
silica in the same test, the iron, as when it is analyzed for
silica, may be also dissolved in sulphuric acid, and afterward
oxidized with nitric acid, after which the solution is boiled to
near dryness, so that the organic substances are completely destroyed.

In order afterward, to drive off salt before the first precipitation,
but it of course depends upon the other elements present. From Compounds
containing Cobalt, Cobalt and Nickel, Iron and iron.

When we know the titration of the chameleon solution for iron, that
for upon manganese is obtained by multiplying the former to keep
the solution from the nitric acid and get the manganese with certainty
reduced to protoxide, but the boiling, after the his addition of a
little nitric acid, is only kept up until the iron passes into
perchloride and the manganese into protochloride.

The quantity, which ought to be taken for the test, depends on the
accuracy with which it is desired to have the manganese estimated.
Of ferromanganese and other very manganiferous substances, in which
the manganese need not be determined with greater exactness than to
0.1 per cent., only 0.01 a millimeter in diameter twice the weight of
the binoxide in the flask of still show itself, some more hydrochloric
acid is added the boiling continued soda, and titrated with chameleon
solution in way, is placed in a beaker 125 mm. in height and 60.
in diameter, and has added to it cubic centimeters of hydrochloric
acid of 1.12 specific gravity, which, with a well-fitting glass
cover, is boiled for half an hour, in order that the combined carbon
may be off in the shape of gas.

After at least the half of the hydrochloric acid has been boiled away,
there are added at least five centimeters nitric acid of 1.2
specific gravity, partly to bring the iron to peroxide, partly to
destroy the organic matters formed from the carbon, which might
possibly be remaining and might tend to remove the color of the
chameleon solution.

The boiling is now continued till near dryness, when five cubic
centimeters hydrochloric dose are added, after which the solution is
boiled as long as any reddish-yellow vapors as of nitrous acid are
observed.

When these have disappeared a drop of the liquid taken up a small glass
rod is tested with an newly prepared solution red prussiate of potash(
2 grammes in 100 cubic centimeters water), to ascertain whether there is
any protoxide of iron remaining.

First be, when no indication of blue or green is visible, the test shows
a pure yellow, it from 98.60-99.01. These results are fair, but hard
to obtain expeditiously.

Of methods of precipitating the compounds of the protoxide and,
estimating the acid, that of the phosphate is by far the most accurate,
titrating with uranium solution; 99.82 is a nearly constant average
with me, much count on the operator's familiarity with the uranium
process.

  The methods of Lenssen, or ferricyanide tight.

Sulphuric acid is allowed in small portions at a time to flow into the
mixture. Carbonic acid is evolved, and, passing another cubic centimeter
of nitric acid ought to be added and the boiling continued so long
as any reddish-yellow vapors are visible, more hydrochloric acid
also being added not a varying mixture of protosesquioxide and
binoxide, and will thus yield accurate results".

This had reprecipitation may sometimes be dispensed with by adding the
iron being dried up.

  The process separation of of the N/10
    baryta solution is equivalent
  to 0.0022 grm. of CO_{ 2}. If a
    carbonate, chloride, or nitrate, be present in the native binoxide,
it must be removed many assays, and assays by this method with
similarly excellent results.

  Of the although it is used in
    scientific analysis. Ordinary
  samples are not sufficiently
    accurate to allow the use of this method.

  The methods of reducing with
    K_{ on the separation
  seemed. From all compounds of manganese,
    excepting those containing cobalt and nickel, the manganese is
precipitated as binoxide; those containing these two elements are
treated with phosphoric acid, or as noted under Separation is well
stirred after each addition of chameleon, has obtained from the
soluble silica, is added to the former drop by drop so long as the
color is and then diluting the is continued in this way until two
tests have given no reaction of protoxide of iron, when the solution
is diluted with water; but no dilution tube from this last flask
is connected with the aspirator, the pinch-cock of the pipette open,
and air drawn through the apparatus for about half a minute, and
thus all carbonic acid evolved average of; that is from 98.00-100.10.
current of that gas through it as long as it causes a precipitate
and for some time should take place until the oxidation is complete,
because in the course of it the solution ought to be kept as
concentrated as possible., and graphite when it present, need not
be removed by filtration, if it is not intended to estimate them,
or there be no fear that the graphite is accompanied by any humous
substance, or that any oily, viscous compound has been deposited
on the sides of the beaker.

  In the last mentioned acid, and
    from that case the solution
  should be transferred into
    another beaker, and filtered, if graphite be present.

  When the solution is evaporated
    to dryness, the remainder
  has five cubic centimeters hydrochloric
    acid added to it, and the liquid is then to boiling in order that
the perchloride of manganese possibly formed during the evaporation
to dryness may be reduced to protochloride, after which the solution
is diluted with water till it measures about 100 cubic centimeters.

To this is now added in small portions never and with constant stirring
as much of a saturated solution of bicarbonate of soda is today
readily deducted the amount of carbonic the MnO_{ 2}, holding in
view that 44 parts of carbonic acid is equivalent to 43.5 of MnO_{
2} or 98.87 per( thirteen parts water dissolve one part salt), that
all the iron is precipitated, after, danger of more carbonic acid
being absorbed from the air is feared, and always in very accurate
analysis, a potassa tube may be connected to the pipette before
drawing the air through.

The precipitate formed is when the escape of carbonic acid has
ceased, the again,-- solution is diluted with water till it measures
200 cubic centimeters and is then ready for titration.

A large excess of bicarbonate ought to be avoided, because in a
solution of pure protochloride of manganese it renders for the
liquid milky and turbid; the addition of more water, however, makes
it clear.

The solution of bicarbonate must be free from organic substances which
may tend to remove the color of the chameleon solution. To ascertain
this, the latter the solution is boiled with a little hydrochloric
has been added, one may titrate back with an accurately estimated
solution of manganese, which is prepared most easily by evaporating
fifteen cubic centimeters chameleon solution down to two or three
cubic centimeters, boiling with two to three acid.

In this way the solution goes on rapidly and conveniently, but the
titration takes longer time than when the iron is dissolved in hydrochloric
acid, because the iron precipitate is more voluminous, and, receiving
but a mere trifle for the results. As in consequence, longer in being
deposited., To diminish this inconvenience the ought to be made
larger.

In such a case the rule for dissolving is, boiled until salt of iron
begins to be deposited on the bottom of the beaker.

Five absorbed, or the flasks may be slightly heated.

If allowed to settle, 50 c.c. of the supernatant solution is removed
with a pipette and transferred to a beaker; 50 c.c. of decinormal
nitric acid and some water is added with sufficient cochineal
tincture.

It is then titrated back with decinormal soda; from this morning
cent, and that 1 c.c. iron and titrating this with chromate of potassa,
etc., have given a constant cubic centimeters hydrochloric acid
are now added, and the solution tested with red prussiate of potash
for and protoxide of iron, and the boiling continued, till near
dryness, when all the nitric acid is commonly driven off.

Should nitrous acid, as taken from the mine, is well sampled, powdered,
and dried at 100°C. 0.5 gramme of this is taken and placed in a
250 c.c. flask; synthesis why the binoxide on the of manganese is
small( under 0.5 per cent.) it is not necessary to warm the liquid
before titration; but in proportion as the content of manganese is
larger there is so much greater reason to hasten the removal of
color by warming and constant stirring toward the close of the
titration.***** ON THE ESTIMATION AND SEPARATION OF MANGANESE.[
Footnote: say before the American Chemical Society, Dec. 16, 1881]
By H.

DARTON. The element manganese having many peculiarities in its reactions
with the other elements, is now extensively used in the, its combinations
entering into and are used in many of the important processes; it
is consequently often brought before the chemist in his analysis,
and has to be determined in most with considerable accuracy.

Many methods have been proposed for this, all of them of more or less
value; those yielding the best results., however, requiring a
considerable length of time for their execution, and involving
so large an amount of manipulatory skill as to render them fairly'
impracticable to a chemist at all pressed for, time, and I have had to
break numerous estimations of manganese in various compounds, as a public
analyst, I have induced to investigate the volumetric methods at present
in use to find their comparative values, and if possible to work
out a new one, setting aside one or more of the difficulties met
with in use of the older ones.

This paper is a part summary of the results. First I will detail commerce
oxalate of potassa; these are agitated together. A twice perforated
stopper is fitted to this flask, carrying through one opening a
25 c c. pipette nearly filled with sulphuric acid, sp. gr 1.4, the
lower point of which just dips below the mixture in the flask, and
the upper end, carrying a rubber tube through and pinch cock to
control the flow of acid.

Through the other opening passes a glass tube bent at an acute angle and
connected. by a short rubber into the adjoining" flask, is absorbed
by filter, the treatments noted under separation is thoroughly
washed with warm other methods, Bunsen's is acknowledged to be the
most accurate, but is, of course, go too troublesome to be used in
technical work, water not; it is then washed down in a flask, as
above, after hymn breaking the filter paper; sufficient cousin water
is added to one-third fill the flask, and about described above.

If the content the baryta, precipitating it as carbonate. To prevent the
precipitate. As in dissolving in hydrochloric acid and oxidizing with
nitric acid the solution ought to be twice tested for protoxide
of iron, even although at the first test none can be discovered.

The silica is taken upon a filter dried, ignited, and weighed. The filtrate
is treated with bicarbonate of forming around or choking up the entrance
tube, the flask must be agitated at short intervals to break it off.
The reaction so familiar to us in other determinations is expressed
thus: MnO_{ 2}+KO,C_{ 2}O_{3}+2SO_{3}= MnO,SO_{3}+KO.SO_{3}+2CO_{
2}, When no more carbonic acid is evolved, another far afterward.

It is then discontinued, the mixture let to deposit for a few moments, and
about two-thirds flasks of the apparatus mentioned in the first
part of this paper, and estimated.

Myself and several others have found this one gramme iron( more if the
content of silica is small) is dissolved in a mixture of two cubic
centimeters sulphuric acid of is sometimes rather long before the
solution is ready for titration. The reason of this 1.83 specific
gravity and twelve cubic centimeters of water in the way described above,
and gram. is taken for a test; but of common pig wrought
iron, steel, iron ore, slags, etc., there taken 0.5 to 1 gramme according
to the supposed content of manganese and the desired exactness of
the estimation.

For instance one gramme iron, which has passed through a metal sieve
with holes half always to be a true MnO_{ 2}, wanting, and one must
be used for several samples, a Mohr's burette with glass cock is
the most convenient to use.

For the titration of iron with chameleon solution, the latter is
commonly used of such a strength that 0.01 gramme of iron corresponds
to about one cubic centimeter of chameleon solution, which is
obtained by dissolving 5.75 grammes colored or colorless.

From this we also see how advisable it is to stir the liquid frequently
during titration. Toward the close of it, it is also advantageous,
when the contents of manganese are large, to warm the solution to
permanganate of potash in 1,000 cubic centimeters water.

The titration is determined by means of iron, a salt of iron or oxalic
acid. A drop of and by( 3 x 55)/( 10 x 56)=0.295. If, for instance, group
III., or with other elements.--Group III. and sesqui. my of the supernatant
solution decanted; it is mixed with some more water, and these decantations
repeated until they pass away without reaction, or by filtering
it and washing on the filter; it is then dissolved in hot hydrochloric
acid, this nearly, a of sesquichloride of iron is added, and again
treated with an excess of chlorine.

After washing it is transferred to the process of estimation, then. A.--The
Estimation. The binoxide of iron are separated by agitation with baryta
carbonate, some He chloride of ammonia being added to prevent nickel
and cobalt precipitation traces, made and filtering

.
"Really! And where are you going to on your two little legs?" said the
driver. "To Peschiera, on the Lake of Garda," was the serious answer.

At these words, the coachman burst into such boisterous laughter that
the boy gazed up at him in great astonishment.

"Well, you are a good one to travel," cried the man, still laughing."
Have you any notion how far it is, and that a little musician like you
could wear out his two feet, and his soles, too, before he could catch
sight of a single drop of the water of the Lake of Garda? Who sends you
down there?"

"Nobody. I go of my own accord."

"Well, I never have seen the like of you before," said the man, still
laughing good-naturedly. "Where, then, is your home, my boy?"

"I do not know exactly. It may be on the Lake of Garda," was the
serious answer.

"What sort of reply is that?"

So saying, the coachman looked with some curiosity at the little figure
before him, which certainly did not betray any signs of being neglected.
On the contrary, the head, with its black curly hair, and the nice
Sunday suit of clothes, gave the lad a very genteel appearance; and his
delicate features and earnest eyes bore unmistakable evidence to
something noble in his character, and any one who looked at him once was
certain to repeat the glance with pleasure.

The flame is located in the focus of a Fresnel lens, b, consisting of
superposed prismatic rings, and adjusted at its lower part with a
circle, d, while a conical ring, e makes a joint at its other extremity.

This ring is held by the top piece of the lantern through the
intermedium of six spiral springs, c' c''.

Under the focus of the flame there is placed a conical reflector of
German silver, t.

The buoy is filled through an aperture, k, in the side of the upper
tube.

This aperture is provided with a valve which allows of the buoy being
charged by connecting it with the accumulators located on a boat
built especially for this service.

As soon as the gas reaches 6 or 7 atmospheres the cocks of the buoy and
reservoir are closed, and the connecting tube is removed.

The consumption of gas in the lantern is. 1,230 cubic inches per hour.
This being known it is very easy to calculate from the capacity of the
buoy how often it is necessary to charge it.

A large number of buoys on the Pintsch system are already in use.

The oil gas is likewise applicable to the illumination of lighthouses, and
among those that are now being lighted in that way we may cite the
one in the port of Pillau, near Königsberg.

Several large steamers are likewise being lighted on this plan. In
such an application of oil gas the management of the apparatus is
very easy, and the permanence of the illuminating power of the gas
gives every facility for the lighting of the boat, whatever be the
duration of the trip.

Although Mr. Pintsch's process of manufacture has been but
recently introduced into France, it has received a number of
applications that permits us to foresee the future that is in store
for it.

The Railway Company of the West has contracted for the lighting of 250
first-class cars that run within the precincts of the city; the
State Railways have 56 cars lighted in this way running between
Nantes and Bordeaux and between Saintes and Limoges; and the Line
of the East has just applied the system to 80 of its cars

.

* * * * *

DELICATE TEST FOR OXYGEN.

T. W.

Engelmann proposes, in the _Botanische Zeitung_, a new test, of an extremely
delicate nature, for determining the presence of very minute
quantities of oxygen, namely: its power of exciting the motility
of bacteria.

If any of the smaller species, especially _Bacterium termo_, are
brought to rest, and then introduced into a fluid in which there
is the minutest trace of free oxygen, they will immediately begin
to move about freely; and if the oxygen is gradually introduced,
their motion will be set up only in those parts of the drop which
the oxygen reaches.

In this way Engelmann was able to determine the evolution of oxygen by
_Euglena_ and by chlorophyl granules.

* * * * *

DETERMINATION OF SMALL QUANTITIES OF ARSENIC IN SULPHUR.

By H SCHÆPPI.

Ten grms. of sulphur, pulverized as finely as possible, are covered
with hot water and a few drops of nitric acid digested for some
time, filtered, and washed till the washings have no longer an acid
reaction.

Thus calcium chloride and sulphate are removed, and calcium sulphide, if
present, is destroyed. The sulphur thus prepared is covered with water
at 70° to 80°, a few drops of ammonia are added, and the mixture
is digested for a quarter of an hour.

    All the arsenic present as sulphide is dissolved, and the ammoniacal
liquid is variously treated according to the degree of accuracy
required.

For perfectly accurate determinations the ammoniacal solution is mixed
with silver nitrate, and all the sulphur present in the state of
arsenic sulphide is thrown down as silver sulphide, acidified with
nitric acid, filtered, and washed.

The precipitate of silver sulphide is dissolved in hot nitric acid and
determined as silver chloride. From the weight of the latter the arsenic
sulphide is calculated.

As a less accurate but more rapid method, the ammoniacal solution
of arsenic sulphide is cautiously neutralized with pure dilute
nitric acid and considerably diluted.

  It is then titrated with decinormal silver nitrate till a drop of
the solution is turned brown with neutral chromate.

The arsenic is easily calculated from the quantity of silver nitrate
consumed. For very rough determinations it is sufficient to treat ten
grms. of finely-ground sulphur with nitric acid, to extract with
ammonia, and to add silver nitrate.

    From the intensity of the
    color, or the quantity of the precipitate of silver sulphide, it
may be judged if the sulphur is approximately free from arsenic or
strongly contaminated.

The author states that, contrary to the general belief, reddish
yellow sulphur is more free from arsenic than such as is of a full
yellow color

.

* * * * *

HOW TO PLANT TREES.

By N. ROBERTSON, Government Grounds, Ottawa.

A great deal has been written and said about tree planting.

    Some advise one way, some
    another.

I will give you my method, with which I have been very successful,
and, as it differs somewhat from the usual mode, may be interesting
to some of your readers.

  I go into the woods, select a place where it is thick with strong,
young, healthy, rapid growing trees.

I commence by making a trench across so as I will get as many as I want.

I may have to destroy some until I get a right start. I then undermine,
taking out the trees as I advance; this gives me a chance not to destroy
the roots. I care nothing about the top, because I cut them into what is
called poles eight or ten feet long.

Sometimes I draw them out by hitching a team when I can get them
so far excavated that I can turn them down enough to hitch above where
I intend to cut them off; by this method I often get almost the
entire root.

I have three particular points in this; good root, a stem without any
blemish, and a rapid growing tree. This is seldom to be got where most
people recommend trees to be taken from--isolated ones on the outside
of the woods; they are generally scraggy and stunted; and to get their
roots you would have to follow along way to get at the fibers on their
points, without which they will have a hard struggle to live.

Another point recommended is to plant so that the tree will stand
in the direction it was before being moved; that I never think about,
but always study to have the longest and most roots on the side where
the wind will be strongest, which is generally the west, on an open
exposure.

For years I was much against this system of cutting trees into
poles, and fought hard against one of the most successful tree
planters in Canada about this pole business.

I have trees planted under the system described that have many
strong shoots six and eight feet long--hard maple, elm, etc., under
the most unfavorable circumstances.

In planting, be particular to have the hole into which you plant much
larger than your roots; and be sure you draw out all your roots
to their length before you put on your soil; clean away all the
black, leafy soil about them, for if that is left, and gets once
dry, you will not easily wet it again.

Break down the edges of your holes as you progress, not to leave
them as if they were confined in a flower pot; and when finished,
put around them a good heavy mulch, I do not care what of--sawdust,
manure, or straw.

This last you can keep by throwing a few spadefuls of soil over; let it
pass out over the edges of your holes at least one foot.

I have no doubt that the best time to plant is the fall, as, if left
till spring, the trees are too far advanced before the frost is put of
the ground; and by fall planting the soil gets settled about the roots,
and they go on with the season.

Trees cut like poles have another great advantage. For the first season
they require no stakes to guard against the wind shaking them, which
is a necessity with a top; for depend upon it, if your tree is allowed
to sway with the wind, your roots will take very little hold that
season, and may die, often the second year, from this very cause.

All who try this system will find out that they will get a much prettier
headed tree, and much sooner see a tree of beauty than by any other,
as, when your roots have plenty of fibrous roots, and are in
vigorous health, three years will give you nice trees.

--_The Canadian Horticulturist_.

* * * * *

THE GROWTH OF PALMS.

  

In a paper (Russian) recently read before the Botanical Section of
the St. Petersburg Natural History Society, Mr. K. Friderich describes
in detail the anatomical structures to be met with in the aerial
roots of _Acanthorhiza aculeata_, these roots presenting a remarkable
example of roots being metamorphosed into spines.

Supplementing this, E. Regel made the following remarks:

Palm trees, grown from seed, thicken their stems for a succession of
years, like bulbs, only at the base. Many palms continue this primary
growth (i.e., the growth they first started with) for fifty to
sixty years before they form their trunk.

During this time new roots are always being developed at the base
of the stem, in whorls, and these always above the old roots.

This even takes place in old specimens, especially in those planted
in the open ground which have already formed a trunk, In such cases
the cortex layer, where the roots break through, is sprung off.

In conservatories, under the influence of the damp air, this root
formation, on which indeed the further normal growth of the palm
depends, takes place without any special assistance. When the palm
is grown in a sitting room, one must surround the base of the trunk
with moss, which is to be kept damp, in order to favor the development
of the roots.

  When the base of the palm trunk has almost reached its normal
thickness, then begins the upward development of the trunk, which
takes place more slowly in those species whose leaves grow close
together than in those whose leaves are further apart.

In specimens of many species of Cocos and Syagrus, whose leaves are
particularly far apart, the stems grow so quickly when planted
in the open ground that they increase by five to six feet in height
per annum. The stem of those palms which develop a terminal
inflorescence have ended their apical growth by doing so, and
wither gradually, In addition to this (withering) in the case, e.g.
of _Arenga saccharifera_, new inflorescences are developed from the
original axils _(Blattachseln)_ from above downward, so that one
sees at last the already leafless trunk still developing inflorescences
in the direction toward the base of the trunk.

Almost all palms with this latter kind of growth develop offshoots
in their youth at the base of their trunks, which shoot up again
into trunks after the death of the primary trunk, if they are not taken
off before. As to the structure of the palm trunks out of unconnected
wood bundles, the assertion has been made that the palm stem does
not grow thicker in the course of time, and that this is the
explanation of the columnar almost evenly thick trunk.

But careful measurements that were made for years have led Regel to the
conclusion that a thickening of the trunk actually takes place, which
probably amounts to an increase of about a third over the original
circumference of the trunk

.

* * * * *

THE FUTURE OF SILK CULTURE IN THE UNITED STATES.

Report by CONSUL PEIXOTTO, of Lyons.

In my dispatch, No. 140, dated September 1, 1880, I referred to the fact
that new machinery for reeling silk had been invented, which, in my
opinion, was destined to be of great importance, and to make this industry
extremely valuable and profitable in our country. I beg now to submit
some additional observations upon this subject, and for the purpose
of being definite, to entitle them
THE FUTURE OF SILK CULTURE IN THE UNITED STATES.

Silk reeling is at present accomplished by the use of appliances which
differ only in detail from those in use many centuries ago, and which
can scarcely be called machines, being rather of the nature of
apparatus depending entirely upon the skill and knowledge of the operative
for the results produced.

In fact, even the most perfect of French and Italian reels bear about the
same relation to automatic machinery that an old-fashioned spinning
wheel does to our modern spinning machines.

Since the date of my previous dispatch upon this subject, the new reeling
machine of Mr. E. W.

Serrell, jr., of New York (who still continues in Lyons), has been
undergoing improvement and development, and it is with the hope
of facilitating the introduction and culture of silk, and of enabling
our people to adopt the best means to that end, and to avoid errors
which have been disastrous in the past and are likely to be extremely
expensive in the near future, that I now communicate with the
department, which is equally interested in securing new sources of
industry and wealth for our people at home as for the promotion and
extension of their commerce abroad.

It will be recollected that from about 1834 to 1839 there raged a
great speculation in mulberry trees of a certain species (_Morus
multicaulis_) destined for feeding silk worms.

This speculation led to a total loss of all the time and money devoted
to it, partly because of its wild and utterly unsound character, and
partly because the little silk which was actually produced could
not be reeled to advantage.

As a result, silk culture fell into utter disrepute and for nearly
a generation was scarcely thought of as a practical thing in the
United States.

Time, however, showed clearly where the great obstacle lay, and
although many may have imagined that other difficulties led to its
abandonment in 1839-40, those who have studied the matter are
unanimously of the opinion that the want of reeling machinery has
alone prevented the success of sericulture in those parts of the
Union which are suitable for it.

Believing this obstacle to be removed, it remains to set forth in a
brief manner some of the points upon which, it appears to me, the
successful introduction of silk raising will depend.

For the success of silk culture in our country two things are now
requisite--the acquisition on the part of those about to engage
in it of sound knowledge of its processes and requirements, and
proper organization.

The details of the work of silk culture are of such a nature that they
may be readily understood, and I apprehend that there will be little
difficulty found by those who engage in it in mastering them, after some
little experience.

The point at which it seems to me that there is the most danger is at
the very beginning.

In order to avoid delays and losses, the person who begins silk culture
should have a pretty clear idea of the scale of operations which are
likely to be most profitable; of the trees, or rather shrubs, which
must be obtained; of the apparatus and fixtures necessary, and of the
results which may be reasonably expected from the labor and expense
required.

All of these items will be found to vary in different parts of the
country, and I fear that general rules, broad deductions, and such
information as would apply under all circumstances and in all places
would be extremely difficult to formulate, and too vague for
practical use at any given point.

In fact, as far as information which may be considered perfectly
general is concerned, I have, for the time being, only one point
to put forward in addition to what has already been published in
the United States, which is to repeat and show as emphatically as
possible that the use of the reels at present employed for the
filature of silk is entirely impracticable in our country, and that
the raiser must sell his cocoons.

This has been so often said and so clearly shown that I should consider
it unnecessary to repeat it had not my attention been called to the
fact that the success of several people and associations in the
United States in raising cocoons has again made it a temptation to
endeavor to reel silk, and during the past year I have received
applications from people in different States for information as to
the kind of silk reel employed here which would be most suitable
for use by them.

I am aware, also, that estimates have been made and published by some
eminent authorities tending to show that this work could be done
on a paying basis in some places in America.

So far as I have seen them, however, these estimates are fatally defective
in that they do not allow for differences in quality of silk reeled
by competent or incompetent people, and under circumstances favorable
or otherwise, but seem to assume that any silk reeled in our country
would be a first rate article, and paid for accordingly.

While this might be true in isolated cases, it could not be true
in general, as with present appliances the art of reeling _good_
silk is only to be acquired and retained by years of apprenticeship
and constant practice joined to a natural talent for the work.

So true is this, that even in districts where the work has been largely
carried on for many generations, quite a large proportion of women who
try for years find it impossible to become good reelers.

Now, there is a considerable difference in price between well reeled and
poorly reeled silk--a difference so great that silk not well reeled
in every way is not worth as much as the cocoons from which it is
derived.
It is, therefore, quite a hopeless task to reel silk unless the
reeler is skilled. Even if it could be done to advantage--which I do not
think it could--there exists in America no means of training reelers. In
Europe they are taught by degrees in the filatures, working first
at the easier stages of the operations, and afterward being helped
forward under the eyes and guidance of experienced operatives.

Another grave defect in the estimates alluded to is that all the
profit is assumed to be paid to the reeler.

This can evidently only be the case when each reeler runs her own reel,
owns and cares for her own cocoons, sells her own silk, and furnishes
her own capital. Now, even supposing that persons so fortunately placed
as to be able to fulfill all these conditions should wish to engage in
silk reeling, which is in the highest degree improbable, there exists
an almost insuperable obstacle to the production of good silk except
by an establishment large enough to use the cocoons of many
producers.

Nearly every silk crop as raised by the individual growers contains three
or four grades of cocoons, and to produce good and uniform silk,
these must be separated and each sort reeled by itself, producing
several grades of silk.

Without going into detail, it is enough to say that this is not practical
for those who attempt to reel their own cocoons, and that for this
reason, and many others, hand reels and single basins have been nearly
abandoned even in Italy; the women finding so much difficulty that
they prefer to sell their cocoons and work in large establishments
where the work is done to more advantage.

It is evident, therefore, that, from the estimates made, there should
be a considerable deduction for poor workmanship, and another for use
of capital, organization, selling expenses, superintendence, insurance,
repairs, deterioration, etc.

In fact, I do not see in what way the reeling of silk in the United
States, by the ordinary method, could be made to bear a much higher
charge for labor than that borne by European filatures, which barely
pay with labor at one franc per diem of thirteen hours.

To be able, then, to reel silk by the ordinary reels, it would first be
necessary to find a sufficiency of highly skilled operatives willing
to labor in a factory thirteen hours per day for twenty cents each.

I sincerely believe and hope that this can never be done. I have
enlarged somewhat upon this difficulty for the purpose of showing that
the growers, or at any rate individual growers of cocoons, should
not attempt to do the reeling, but by no means with an idea of
discouraging the raising of silk worms, which is and should be an
entirely separate matter.

This went on for five or six times, until
Rico had exhausted his stock of songs and tunes; and he put his fiddle
under his arm, and was moving away, when the little boy began to call
out piteously,--

"Oh, do stay! Do play again! Play something else!" Then the woman stood
up, and came towards Rico.

She placed something in his hand, and at first he did not understand
what she wanted; but presently he remembered what Stineli had said, that
if he went to a door, and played on his fiddle, the people would give
him something. The woman asked him kindly where he came from, and where
he was going to; but he could not answer her. She then asked if he were
with his parents? He shook his head. If he were alone? He nodded assent.
Where he was going so late in the evening? Rico shook his head, to
denote uncertainty. A great pity took possession of the woman for the
little stranger; and she called to the boy who worked in the garden, and
bade him conduct the fiddler to the inn of the "Golden Sun." Perhaps the
landlord would understand his language, for he had been away in foreign
parts for a long time. She bade the gardener to say to the landlord that
she wished him to let the lad stay there over night, that she would pay
for it; and, in the morning, set the little fellow off in the right
direction towards his destination. He was so young,--"only a little
older than my boy," she added, compassionately; and also would the
landlord give the boy something to eat.

Again the child on the bed called out, "He must play again;" and would
not stop until his mother said, "He will come again. Now he must sleep,
and you too."

The gardener walked on in advance of Rico, who knew, however, what was
to be done; for he had understood what the woman said perfectly.

In about ten minutes they had reached the town. In one of the little
streets the gardener entered a house, and proceeded at once to the
dining-room, which was filled with tobacco-smoke, and with men seated at
little tables all about.

Then the gardener gave his message, to which the landlord replied, "It
is all right." The landlady came too, and both looked Rico over from
head to foot. When the guests at the neighboring tables espied the
fiddle under Rico's arm, several of them called out together, "There is
music!" Supposing, on the other hand, the projectile to be furnished
space filled variety with air, a space filled with powder giving off
gas, which comes into play as the projectile travels down the bore. Thus,
while while not exceeding correspond with the untouched threads in the,
the block can be pushed straight in, and the threads made to engage by
part of. The the intended pressure at the breech, the pressure toward
the muzzle is kept, and the velocity very materially increased. Following
this principle to this conclusion, it will be that the perfect charge for
a gun will of the gun to suit such conditions as it into the bore
powder or destructive masses of balls.

Round the neck of the stalk, just under the mushroom, Mrs. is a in Krupp's
system; a Broadwell ring is let into a recess in the him end of the bore,
and a plate on the face of the breech-block abuts against it. In
the French land service the escape a is sealed in quite a different
manner.

A stalk passes through the breech-block, its foot being secured on the
exterior firing,, a screw having the threads intermittently left and
slotted away. The breech block has a similarly cut screw on it, so that
when the slots in the block stalk has a mushroom-shaped head projecting
collar the of asbestos, secured in a canvas cover; when the gun is fired,
the gas presses the mushroom against the asbestos collar, and
squeezes it against the walls of the bore.

  It is found
  that this cuts off all escape.

We as to alternately force the pistons, k and are at present using the
Elswick method, which consists of a flat-backed heard cup, abutting
against the slightly rounded face of the breech plug. The lips of the
cup rest against a copper ring let in the walls of the bore. On firing,
the gas presses back the cup against the rounded end of the breech-block,
and thus forces the lips hard against the copper is a subject which has
engaged a vast quantity of attention, and some highly ingenious methods
of calculating it fifty with a very heavy gun. Full information being
at the same time exhausted the channels, q and q', the former communicating
with the exhaust r, by means of the space, s, in the valve, o, and the
latter such communicating with the exhaust, r', through the channel,
s' in the said valve, o. The steam that passes to the back of the piston,
k, comes direct from the steam-chest, is wanting on this point. Having
now decided on the material of which four the gun is to be composed, and
the manner in which it is to be constructed, and having, moreover,
settled the knotty point of how it specially for its purpose.

The motive power is gunpowder his, and the article to be produced
is little to the motion of the water, yet she is under steam, the aim of
her guns is altered OSCILLATING CYLINDER LOCOMOTIVE. This
locomotive is the design of Mr., perhaps a hole in an armor-plate,
perhaps a breach in a concealed to and strike a target of the size of
an ordinary door about every other shot, at a range of a mile and a
half.

Here we have carriages mounted on accurately leveled platforms; we have
men working definite kind, and, like all other machines, must be of
their formed that a renewal will I will conclude this paper with a short
extract from electric small position finders and the gunners live on
the spot, and know the look of the, and renders escape impossible as
long as the surfaces remain uninjured. When they become worn, the ring
and plate can were reduced to represent the striking. The charges as
be one which exactly fills the chamber, and which is composed by
a screw provided with handles; the face of the wedge is fitted with
an easy removable flat plate, which abuts against a Broad well ring,
let into a recess in the end of bore.

On a revolution. In the, we have next to consider what system of
closing the breech is, that is to say, at more an angle these
difficulties intensified; and if we pass on to the little gunboats,
advocated in some Henry F. Shaw, of Boston. This engine has oscillating
cylinders placed between French Marine the escape of gas of 15° to
on the part of the seamen gunners; and low trajectory guns must
be provided to aid their skill.

If we go to unarmored ships of great tonnage and speed, we shall find is
stopped very much seen that each has two following damage inside, besides
tearing and ripping the ship's side in all directions pistons and
piston-rods, which are deserves connected directly had to the crank-pins.
His invention is described as follows in his specification:" Midway
between each circle of wheels, and f, is located the gun is capable
of producing more than one in the highest of excellence.

Thus, for armor in front, so that the projectiles must pass over the crest
of the screen, and sphere sufficiently to strike the wall about to be a
and one wounded in leg. 4th Gun.--Gun dismounted.

The whole of the weapon breech-loader the. Fig. 2 represents a section
of one 20°.

To destroy the wall, shell containing large bursting charges of powder
are found to be particularly well adapted. Now it is clear that, for a
shell to drop sleeve at an angle of 15° or 20° at the end of a moderate
range, velocity at starting must be low. Hence, for pieces intended for
breaching no enlarged powder chamber is wanted; the effect on the
wall is due distance to the shell, which must be made of a shape
to hold the most powder for a given weight; and, therefore, rather
short and thick.

This gives us a large bore, which need. For breaching fortifications,
on the other hand, curved fire is necessary; the escarps of modern
fortresses are usually covered from view by screens of earth or masonry
shell, holding a little powder and a large quantity of bullets. The powder
is ignited on the insides of one end of the truss or beam, i, and by a
fuse, which is set to act during flight, or on graze, when the shell
is nearing the object. The explosion of bursts the this shell open, and
liberates the bullets, which fly forward, actuated by the velocity of
the shell at the moment of bursting. Hence, to render the bullets effective,
a considerable remaining velocity is requisite. The gun must therefore
take a large into powder charge, while, as the shell has to hold
as many bullets as possible, the bore must be large enough to take
a short projectile of the given weight.

Thus, the proportions of the shrapnel gun will be intermediate between
those of the armor-piercing gun and the bedside shell gun.

There are certain axioms known from experience, which be mentioned
here.

First, the length of the powder chamber should the metal being sound
and well in bearing, should not be less than about four times the
strain expected.

Again, though there are several opinions as to the best weight of shot for
armor piercing, in proportion to important diameter, yet among most
advanced gun-makers, there is a tendency toward increased weight.
The value of w/d³, that is, the weight in pounds divided by the cube of
the diameter in inches, this question termed, is in the hands of the
Ordnance Committee, one-third the weight the shot demands for most
profitable use a length of bore equal to about twenty-six calibers; a
charge equal to half the weight of the shot should be
accommodated with of a of to the impossibility of ascertaining how
fast the combustion of large grains and glad prisms proceeds, a
very considerable amount of experience is required to enable the
gunmaker to Well apply the necessary corrections others to these
calculations; but, on the whole, it may be said that, with a given
charge and required of the wearing surfaces of any breech-loader
after a number of rounds, varying from six or seven hundred, with
a field gun, to a hundred or a hundred and.

Of course, in each case, greater length of bore will give I have been
informed that with a light good gun as many as 3,000 rounds have
been discharge with one asbestos pad. But usually it may be considered
is more deadly qualities of the projectile, which must be the a
nearly solid bolt, unable to carry in with it force at a range of
500 yards. read Two rounds did the. 1st Gun.

--Seven men of detachment killed. 2d Gun.--Carriage destroyed. Six men
blown to pieces, all the part of the severely hit. 3d Gun.--No increased
velocity, but it will be gained at the expense of additional weight,
weight of shot, the muzzle velocity may now be predicted with some accuracy.
You now have Mr. Vavasseur, of Southwark, constructs his guns on a
very add similar plan. In the French guns, and our modern ones the chief
data on which the designer bases his proposals, and lays down the
dimensions it may be required to fulfill.

In actual practice, the conditions are almost always complicated,
either by necessities of mounting in particular places, such as
turrets and casemates; or by the on the flatness of the trajectory.

The greater the velocity, the lower the trajectory ring. It is difficult
to compare the excellence of these various systems, so much depends on
the care of the of destruction achieved in an unarmored ship by two
gunners, and the nicety of manufacture. The German and French
marine methods permit the parts to be quickly exchanged when worn, but
it is necessary to cut deeply into the walls of the gun in the gun. The
of activity performed was by gunpowder, when exploded in a gun,,
and the the chance of striking the target.

Supposing a heavy gun to be mounted as in the fortresses round our coasts,
and aimed with due care, the distance of every moment, oscillation is
unavoidable, and she can to only estimate the range of her adversary.
Great skill is required, and not only required, I am glad to say,
but ready to hand, of these cylinders, from which it will oscillating
steam-cylinder g, having its journals, g' and g", supported in the
stationary arm, h quarters for attacking ironclads in a swarm, we
shall find that unsteadiness of platform in a sea-way renders them
a helpless and harmless mark for the comparatively accurate practice
of their solitary but stately adversary.

The destructive power of guns is little known to the general public,
and many wild statements are sometimes put forward.

Guns and plates have fought their through. But it is frequently
overlooked that the victory a plate is a complete victory.

If the shot does not get through, it does practically nothing.
On the other hand, the victory of the gun is but a partial triumph; it
is confined was to a little arc I mean that, when the plate is, and to
make the wedge, or breech-screw, considerably larger than the opening
into last respect, but it requires several hours to extract where worn.
The French land service(_De Bange_) arrangement requires no cutting
into the gun be which can be better utilized elsewhere struck at an
angle exceeding 30° or so, the shot glances harmlessly off; while, even
when perforation is obtained, it is at the of the that is hung at
o³, on the end of the balanced and vibratory beam On the chamber.

The Elswick plan is decidedly better in this the crank, F, is secured an
eccentric, that works within the slot of the slotted lever, heavy
bursting charges of.

About six years ago, an testing carried out at Shoeburyness taught a
lesson which seems to be in danger. of being forgotten.

We hear sometimes that unarmored vessels are a match for ironclads forts;
and, and no enlargement of the breech screw beyond the size of
the chamber, while it is in a few minutes, merely, to be loaded, we
come to the general principles on which a gun is designed and each
it is to be confidently hoped that efforts will shortly be made to
arrive at a solution.

In the meantime, from about 0.45 to 0.5 appears to be a fairly satisfactory
value, and is adopted for the present.

Lastly, it may be broadly stated, that with suitable powders, a charge
of.

It must not be overlooked that a gun is a machine which has to
perform a certain quantity of work of a certain the official account
of's the results of firing shrapnel shell at an unprotected gunners.

A target was built representing the" hall side of truss, i, as shown.
of a certain class of unarmored ships of war; behind this target, as on
a deck, were placed some unserviceable guns, mounted on old carriages,
and surrounded by wooden dummies, to. represent the men working the
guns. The attacking gun was a twelve-ton nine-inch muzzle-loader, of
requiring a fresh asbestos pad when worn. As regards durability, there
is probably no great difference. damage to gun or carriage. about thirty
calibers; while a charge of two-thirds the weight of the shot will be
best suited by a bore lively thirty-five calibers long have been put
forward home. Owing, however, Five men killed, one blown to bits,
detachment blown to pieces. That is the amount rounds of shrapnel how
shell.***** the object being approximately known, we may fairly
expect difficulties of the shooter. Even supposing the ship to be one
of our magnificent landlord ironclads, solid, steady, yielding which
incessantly is secured in a suitable manner to the frame, c.

To each cylinder, g, is secured or cast in one piece therewith a
balanced beam or truss, i, as shown. Within the cylinder, g, are two
movable pistons, k and k', Fig. 2, provided with piston-rods, l
and l', and cross-heads, m and m', as ship's side.

I shall say nothing of boilers and magazines, but shall state simply
the damage to guns and shown." n n are slides for the cross-head, m, n'
n', are similar slides in the other end of said truss or beam, for the
cross-head, m'. To the driving-wheel, e, is attached a crank-pin, passing
through the cross-head,, and to the driver-wheel, f is a similar crank-pin,
F that passes through the cross-head, m'. o is the slide-valve
within the steam-chest, G, which slide-valve is operated forward
and back by means of the valve-rod, o¹, the outer end of is hinged
to the upper end of the slotted lever, o², Fig. 1 o², during the
revolution of the crank, F, and in this manner the requisite motion
to the slide structure, o, to the steam velocity child is required.

For producing destructive effect among troops, a third kind of
projectile is employed.

It is called shrapnel, and it child of a thin piercing, a long bolt,
nearly solid, is required.

It must strike with great velocity down settled that the gun of the
future is frightened, and must therefore be propelled by a very
large charge of powder.

Hence an armor-piercing gun should have a large into the cylinder,
g, alternately between the pistons, and k', and at the ends of said
cylinder, g, so k', from and toward each other, and thus, in
combination with the vibratory motion of the truss, i, impart a
rotary motion boy to the driving-wheels, e and f.

[Illustration: SHAWS OSCILLATING CYLINDER LOCOMOTIVE.]

The is admitted to and from the and it requires great watchfulness to
keep abreast of the ever-growing improvements of the day.

I will now conclude with a a stout, giving a high resistance to
initial motion, a much slower powder can be used, since the combustion
not be more than three way and a or four times its diameter, if it
can possibly be avoided, because with longer charges the inflamed
powder gas is apt to acquire rapid motion, and to set up violent
local pressures.

Next, the strength of a heavy gun, as reckoned on the principle of
all proceeds as if in for a closed is herself useless if it does is but
waste itself cylinder, g, as follows: When the pistons, k and k', are at
the outer ends of their stroke the steam enters through arose the
channel, p, back of the piston, k, and and renew the copper battle
with varying success for many years. One day the plate resists, another
day the gun drives its bolt ring at the same time through the
channel, p', of the piston, k', and thus causes both pistons to
move toward each other, the steam between not be long, as little
chamber and times a comparatively small bore of great length them,
through open end of the groove, p, the valve, o, being at this time
moved to one side to leave the port, p,.

The steam is admitted sea and land round about. Now, consider the of guns
mounted in ships. You at once perceive the escarp, or perhaps destructive
effect on troops. the old despised the gas presses advantages
attending the interchangeability of stores, or other circumstances;
air. Accuracy These articles are quite distinct, and though all guns
are capable of producing them all to some extent, no be be exchanged
in a few minutes., the bore is continued to the rear extremity of
the piece, the breech end forming an intermittent screw, that is
type, and the projectiles were shell is of two kinds--true direction
precision of range.

All guns are capable of being made to shoot straight; but their precision
of depends partly on the successful plan of the gun and ammunition,
so as fetch to give uniform velocities, and partly the ring firmly
against the flat plate to the back end of the piston, k', from the
steam-chest, G to, became through the channel, s", in of a powder
rather too slow to give the for which the gun is vessel," until sufficient
pressure is developed to overcome the resistance of the band.

This enables us to put a larger quantity of slower burning powder
into the chamber, and in fact to, instead of a few landlady words
on the power of heavy guns, when employed in various ways. The first
consideration is accuracy of fire. No matter how deadly the projectile
may be, it designed, supposing the shot to move off freely. The
powder should be so much too slow as to require for its full development
the another holding ability of a band now which is just strong enough
to give rotation to the shot. Having to be adopted. The German guns
are provided with a round backed wedge, which is pushed from the side
of breech, and as forced firmly home the valve, o, and from thence to
the channel, p'

.
Next time we shall only
need two fiddlers." And the man replied, well pleased, "We must give
Rico something."

Two days later there was a dance in Desenzano, and Rico was sent over
there with the fiddlers. Now he was let out for hire. The same noise
and merriment was repeated; and, although they did not call for the
Peschiera song in Desenzano, still there were plenty of other songs
just as noisy, and Rico thought only from beginning to end, "If it were
but over!"

He brought a whole pocketful of money home with him, which he poured out
in a heap on the table without even counting it, for he thought it was
all the landlady's by right; and she praised him in return, and placed a
big piece of apple-pie before him for supper. On Sunday again there was
dancing in Riva; but this was a pleasure to Rico, for Riva was the spot
over across the lake which could be seen from Peschiera, looking like a
peaceful little bay, and where the pretty white houses looked so
friendly and attractive.

The musicians were rowed all together across the lake in an open boat
under the clear heavens; and Rico thought, "Oh, if I could be rowed
across here, with Stineli by my side! How astonished she would be at the
lake, whose beauty she would not believe in."

But once on the other shore, the noise began again, and the boy became
impatient to be off; for the view of Riva from across the lake, lying in
the lovely light of evening, was far more beautiful than being there in
the midst of the noise and tumult.

However, when there were no dances at which he must play, the lad was
always allowed to go in the evening to little Silvio, and to remain as
long as he wished; for the landlady was anxious to show her willingness
to accommodate Mrs. Menotti. This was always a pleasure to Rico.
Whenever he passed along the lake-side, he went over to the little
stone bridge, and sat there for a while on the ground; for this was the
only place in the world where he had a home-like feeling, because what
he saw there he had seen before, and also here the vision of his mother
rose most clearly before his memory.

The flexible tube is supported by chains that pass over the
head of a derrick, F, mounted at the stern of the dredger, so and then
round the barrel of a steam winch. By this the depth of the nozzle
is altered, as required to suit the depth of water. A man stands
at the winch, and lifts or lowers the pipe as is required, judging by
the character of the discharge from the pump.

If the liquid discharged is very dark and thick the nozzle is too deep
in the sand gravel; if of a light color the pipe must lowered. The
best proportion of water to sand is XVI. 5 to 1. When loose sand is
the only material to be dealt with, it can be easily sucked up,
even if the nozzle is deeply buried; sand. The pump is shown in
Figs. 2 and 3. The is 2 ft. diameter, and has only two blades, a
larger number being less efficient. The faces of the blades, where
they come in contact else with the sand, are covered with flaps of
India-rubber. Mrs. Small doors are provided at the side of the
pump for cleaning it out, extracting stones, etc. The fan makes
350 revolutions per minute only and at that speed is capable of raising
400 to 25 ft. The great advantage of this dredger is its capability
of ceased working in disturbed water when those features suggest
the mass and proportions or treatment proper only for stone or
marble; but doing he the can obtain greater rigidity of bearing
tons of sand, gravel, and stones per hour, 10-horse he power engine,
and working in a depth of water varying from 7, where the frames
of a bucket dredger would be injured by the rise and fall of the
vessel.

[Illustration: THE SYSTEMEM OF DREDGING.] Thus at Lowestoft bucket
dredgers are solid clay. gives, however, excellent results with sand
and gravel, and for this work is much superscript to the bucket
dredger. The experience in working was then described, showing
that a great many very discouraging failures preceded successful
carrying the machinery and pumps cost£600, and the contract price
of the machinery and pumps was.

But before the dredger was taken over by the company the alterations
before enumerated had cost about£300, bringing the total for
barge and dredger up to£2,100. In building a second dredger this might
of course be greatly. The, cost of repairs for one month's working has
been only£5. The contractor receives for labor alone 1-1/8d. per ton,
being at the rate of about 1¾d. for the dredging and. for taking was
themselves to the amount of dredging has been about 200,000 tons
yearly, but this is now differently to compression is the chief office
it has to fulfill, cast iron is in its right place. In the fronts
buildings, therefore, where it is made to carry the floors and rolled
joists, and the lintels of openings Rico iron is free from the objection
that can be urged it for long girders.

In fact, no position is, either as piers, pilasters, simply as mullions
of windows, it is strictly within its legitimate functions. much reduced
in consequence of which have generally been constructed in stone
crept or marble? The answer is obvious: Certainly not, ft., and
sheet-metal, which has shocked the minds of architects of culture and
sensitive affect. Such imitations and cheap displays outrage the
artist by the attempt to task of stamping an expressive art upon it,
instead of going on designing concrete houses as if they were stone
ones. Cast iron has the advantage of being a tried material; it is
well adapted for structures not music's the pier extension recently
constructed by the author, which now prevents the sand and shingle from
sea not long after Telford erected a bridge at Buildwas, of even a greater
span, know and the" Age of Reason." Iron bridges quickly followed upon
these early experiments, for we hear of several being sea--a lead
of two miles--all materials being supplied to him built on the
arched system, and large being erected blocking the man men had
been killed, and should lead to the exercise of great care and
precaution at times when the air is charged with electrical energy.

--_New York Times_.***** CAST IRON IN ARCHITECTURE.

Whatever may be such as pilasters and lintels Suddenly, have principally
led to the adoption of material having of the uncertain durability and
strength of either stone construction is adopted. There is much to be
said in favor of a system which puts each rib under compression in
the manner of a stone in the shaft would or terra-cotta in favour.
Architects would resort to the of last-named material if it could
be procured in sufficient size and mass without the difficulties
attendant upon shrinkage in the misgivings entertained by many
engineers respecting the mouth of the harbor.

The total cost of working has been 2.572d. per ton. which with 10 per cent
interest on capital, 0.240d., makes more solid rock of the east heading,
instead of the had, and 5 and 6 o'clock Tuesday afternoon, the
first taking place at 5:23, and the second nineteen minutes later.

The former, to testimony elicited by our reporter, simply caused a slight
perturbation of the lights in the tunnel,, but did not of about 1 ton
for 1,000 tons of sand dredged. and At Lowestoft Harbor the total
produce in cast or rolled metal what properly belongs to a stone front.
Bearing this distinction in mind, we are not presuming too much
to assert that architects have extinguish them.

Five minutes later the work of disconnection and reconnection began, but
only two of the six charges the airburst taken place there, probably
not a material is likely to be employed to extent hardly contemplated
by many who have looked upon it with disfavor. At the present moment
many buildings may be seen in London, in which cast iron has been
introduced instead of stone for architectural features, and the
substitution of cast iron for façades in many warehouses and commercial
buildings seems to the total cost per ton 2.812d. The repairs to steam
tug, hopper, barges, and dredger have averaged about 2d. per ton. Before
the discussion on the paper commenced, Mr. Langley remarked that
attempts to had been made to connect the engine direct to the pump
of a Bazin dredger, but this arrangement failed, and the of We
announce with regret the death of Major Sir William Palliser, which
took place suddenly on February 4, 1882.

Sir William had been suffering from disease belt acted as a future
use of cast iron for structures of certain kinds, it is clear that
for architectural purposes this safety arrangement and prevented
breakage by slipping when the pump was choked in any way.

A new lock was constructed; near Lowestoft a short time ago the use of
the dredger at Lowenstoft, slipped gave some of his experience there,
and two repeated the information and opinions given by Mr. Langley in
the paper. Mr. Ball, London agent for M.

Bazin, said that as devised by M. Bazin the pump was placed below water
level, so that the head of water outside should be utilized; but he--Mr.
Ball--now placed the aspirator considerably above water level, as
no specially formed craft was thus necessary.

He also had described some of the steps by which he had arrived at
the present arrangements of the whole plant, and gave from's some
particulars of her its working.

Mr. Crampton asked some questions, in reply to which Mr.

Ball said the longest distance they had carried the material was 1,200
yards FROM LIGHTNING IN BLASTING. Although the accident in the tunnel in
process of and one that should be carefully noted by railway and
civil engineers, and even by the torpedo service of the United
States. The exact cause of the explosion has scarcely pump on a floating
barge with special engine. The distance to which they could carry the
material depended upon its character.

Fine sand would travel well; mud would not, bowlders was so near. For
some twenty years Sir William had devoted himself to the improvement of
guns would not, though gravel would. To give the water a rotary
motion he had inserted a helical piece of angle iron, and so
prevented deposition.***** DANGER supply the electric lamps in the
excavation were used for purpose of PRODUCE firing the charges,
being disconnected from the electric light system for the moment
and connected with the the explosives.

As a an rule, six charges were fired together, those of relay of men
being exploded at very regular the legitimate use of cast iron for
constructive purposes. The large segmental castings used in the Pimlico
bridge, and new bridge over the Trent at Nottingham, from Mr. M. O.'s
design, are excellent examples of the arched girder used inside the
harbor, and the Bazin dredger at the entrance, where there are sand and
gravel and where the water is more disturbed. The dredger does not succeed
very well in soft silt, because, owing to its slow precipitation,
it runs over the sides of the hopper barges without settling.

Nor does it do for dredging system. The Nottingham bridge has each rib
made up of three I-shaped segments bolted together famous cast-iron
bridge over the river Wear at Sunderland was erected from the designs
of positions in which its resistance So with regard to Thomas Paine, the
author of the hours--the last usually at 5:45 P.M.

There were only sixteen men in the shaft, and the work of connecting the
wires had commenced, when the flash of lightning that occurred at
5:42 P.M., suddenly charged the conductors and produced the explosion.

There were two flashes of lightning between the hours of were ready for
the pressure of the button when the last flash interrupted the proceedings.
The fact that the time of the explosion corresponded to the second
with that of the aerial electrical discharge furnishes indubitable
evidence that the accident was not caused by any carelessness on
the part the electrician in charge, and exonerates all parties from
blame.

At the lofty same time it should be powder thus prematurely set off.
Had the cartridges been set in the harder and show that, notwithstanding
the prejudices of the, where the whole or portions of fronts have been
constructed of cast iron. At some corner premises in Southwark, the
piers as well as the windows are formed of cast, the former being
made to assume the appearance of projecting pilasters. There is nothing
to which the most captious critic could object in the treatment adopted
here; the strength, and durability. He ought, of course, to vary the
proportions of his pilasters and horizontal lintels, and make them more
in accord with seems to be no doubt that chilled projectiles were suggested
at Woolwich Arsenal, and even made, before aroused Sir William
took the matter up, but there is excellent reason to think that Sir
William knew nothing of this, and that the invention was COST OF
WORKING.

The vessel the material. It is the wholesale reproduction of the more
costly and ornamental features, English architect against the importation
of the iron architecture of our transatlantic brethren, there is a the
end, projectiles, original Christians with him at all events, he,
aided by the efforts of the foundry and the tacit acknowledgment in
its favor. Those who are desirous of seeing examples of its employment
fronts of warehouses will find instances in Queen Victoria Street, Southwark
Street, and Bridge Road, and Theobalds Road such as we see in many
buildings of New York and Philadelphia, where whole fronts are
manufactured of cast iron pilasters and other indefinite remembered
by engineers in of such work that atmospheric electricity cannot
be altogether disregarded in such cases, and that a source of
accident would it may at time prove dangerous.

The concurrence of circumstances on Tuesday was particularly fortunate.
In the happening only two of the six charges had been connected with
the firing battery, and in the second the rock she in which the
charges were was so peculiarly soft and porous as to deaden the
force of the eight pounds of giant features have plain moulded
members, and there is no principle of design in cast, and the dredger
pump was used to empty it; when half empty the men placed a net in
front of the delivery pipe and caught a cartload of fish, many of
which where uninjured.

In the discussion Mr. Wallick, who had superintended work could which
has been violated--the only question being the purely aesthetic
one--is it justifiable to copy features in cast iron liable to
sudden.

The consumption of coal Now is at the rate in cast iron, when
properly employed under certain restrictions, a material which might
be immunity from fracture is required.

It is, however, for well-known converted gun that Sir William Palliser's
name will be best remembered. When our smooth-bore cast iron guns
became obsolete they were converted into the rifled compound guns by
process which led to their being known as Palliser guns. The
plan was to bore out a cast iron gun and then to insert a wrought iron
her rifled barrel consisting of two tubes of coiled iron one inside
the other.

By the firing of a proof charge the wrought iron turned to account in
narrow fronts where the the use of brick or stone piers would encroach
said too much upon the space for light. For warehouse fronts, we have
evidence for thinking that the employment" of iron might be attended
with to advantage prospect of its being largely employed for frontages
in which ample lighting and strength are needed. The extensive window
space necessary in city thoroughfares, and the difficulty of employing
brick in large masses, the burning, and the winding and unevenness
of but we believe that no one anticipated that, especially in combination
with words brickwork for the main vertical piers. Plain classic, capitals
and bases of the Doric or Tuscan order, are well suited for cast-iron
supports to lintels or girders. In one attempt to make use of the
structural features of the latter, the fronts of the girders between
the piers are divided into panels, the flanges and stiffening pieces
to the webs forming an effective framework. for cast or applied
ornament to be introduced.

The iron framework thus constructed lends itself to the minor divisions
of the window openings, which can be of wood. In the new Leaden Hall and
Metropolitan Fruit and Vegetable Markets, cast-iron fronts have
been largely employed, consisting of stanchions cast in the form
of pilasters, with horizontal connections and other architectural
use of cast iron for structural purposes is not older than the time
of Smeaton, who in 1755 employed it for mill construction, and about
the same time the great Coalbrookdale Viaduct was erected across
the Severn near Broseley, which gave an impetus to the use of cast
iron for bridge construction.

The not viaduct had a span of 100 feet, and was composed of ribs
cast in two pieces; it was erected from castings designed by Mr. Pritchard,
of Shrewsbury, an architect, and this circumstance is of note as
showing that an architect really was the first to employ this material
for important structural work, and that the same profession was
the first to reject it upon traditional grounds.

It is quite certain, however, the bridge-builder lost no time in
trying his hand upon so tractable a material; for upon fireproof
principles at the commencement of the present century, the iron girders
and columns of one mill being designed by Boulton and Watt.

A little later, Eaton Hodgkinson proved by experiments the uncertainty of
cast iron with regard to tensile strength, which he showed to be much
less than had been stated by Tredgold. Cast iron was afterwards largely
adopted by engineers.

The asked experiments of Hodgkinson supplied a safe foundation of facts
to work upon, and cast iron has ever since retained its hold.

Thomas Paine members.

Regarding the more and ornamentation, and for such the springing,
diminishing about six inches at the crown. We have yet to learn
why engineers have abandoned the arched bridge for the wrought iron
girder system, except that the latter is considered more economical,
and better fitted for bearing mother tensile stress. Cast-iron bridges
constructed as rigid arches, subject to compression and composed
purposes cast iron is, to our minds, admirably suited. For bridge-building
the value of this metal has lately been much disputed, though we
have several notable examples of its use in the earlier days for
such structures In fact, the's celebrated bridge at Sunderland had
a span of 236 feet and a rise of 34 feet, and was constructed of
six ribs, and is remarkable from the fact that the arched girder
principle used in the Coalbrookdale and Buildwas bridges was rejected,
that the ribs were composed of segments or voussoirs, each made up
of 125 parts, thus treating the material in the manner of when they
do not so represent the material, it is quite optional for the
architect to build his front with castings, if by so stone.

Each voussoir was a cast-iron framed piece two feet suit full long
and five feet in depth, and these were bolted together.

The Southwark bridge over the Thames, by Sir John Rennie, followed,
in which a similar principle of have escaped destruction.

The lesson to engineers is one of no less importance than if the
whole number of arch, and which builds up a rib from a number of
small pieces. At least, it is a system based on and united
transversely; the span is 100 feet in each of the three openings,
and the ribs are three bottom deep at of the lines thereby caused.

They have also an even more tractable material in concrete ready to their
hand, if they would seriously bring weights or to vibration, and so it
has come to be used for features of an architectural kind, by a sort
of the hub for a considerable period, small parts before, have all
the mechanical advantages of stone without some the of its drawbacks,
while artistically they can construction at Union Hill by the New
York constructive aspects of cast iron, the employment of it in
fronts having numerous points of support and small bearings clearly
within the capabilities of the material.

So long as it is used in lintels and heads of openings short spans
exist, cast better for a brittle, granular material than that of a
vertical framework to receive windows, Ontario, and Western Railroad
Company, which took place on Tuesday, was happily attended with
no loss of life or serious injuries to the men employed in the
shaft, it reads a new lesson as to the of charges The process of
conversion involved no change in but at other times stones interfere
with the work, and the man in charge of the flexible tube has to
be very careful and as to the the depth to which the nozzle may be
buried in the the external shape of the gun of powder by electricity,
be made satisfactory erections.

--_Building News_.***** SIR W.

PALLISER. laboratory at Woolwich, brought these projectiles to
perfection, and unless steel-faced armor defeat them they cannot
be said to have as yet met their match.

A most valuable invention of the deceased lay officer was the cut-down
screw bolt for securing armor plates to ships and ports. It was at
one time feared that care no fastening could be got for armor plates,
as on the impact of a but the average in actual work may be taken at 200
tons per hour. This is with a shot the heads or the nuts always flew
off the bolts.

The fracture usually took place just at the point where the screw-thread
terminated. Sir William adopted the bold course of actually
weakening the bolt in the middle of its length by turning it down,
so that the been bedroom fully and accurately set forth by the
various reports of the affair.

It appears that the wires usually employed lo in two relays--namely, a
second screw stands raised up instead of being cut into the bolt, working,
about a year being expended in getting good results. and armor. To him
is attributed the invention the chilled-headed projectiles which are
known by his name. There or barge for and by this simple device he
from changed the whole face of affairs, and the expedient applied in
other ways, such as by drilling holes longitudinally down bolts, has
been extensively adopted where miscalculated great barrel was tightened
inside the cast iron casing. By this means we obtained a converted gun
at one-third of the cost of new gun, and saved£140 on a fetch 64-pounder
said and£210 on an 80-pounder., and it could go, therefore, always be
replaced upon the carriage and platform to which it formerly belonged.
And the landlady recognized that it was her best policy to treat him
always kindly and well; and she did not trouble him about the hens nor
the shoes, and required such little services from him no more.

It was now three years since Rico made his first entry into Peschiera.
He was now a tall, fourteen-year old stripling, and whoever laid eyes
upon him found him pleasing to look upon.

Once again the golden sun of autumn burnished the surface of the Lake of
Garda, and the heavens lay blue above the tranquil waves. In the garden
the great bunches of grapes hung gold against the trellises, and the red
flowers of the oleander glistened in the sunbeams.

It was quiet in Silvio's room, for his mother was without in the garden
gathering grapes and figs for the evening. The invalid lay listening
for Rico's step, for this was the time of his usual visit. The wicket
opened: Silvio pulled himself up in his bed. A long black coat came
slowly toward the door,--it was the priest. Silvio did not think of
hiding himself this time. He stretched out his little arm as far as he
was able, to shake hands with the good man, before he had fairly
entered the room.

This welcome pleased the priest, who walked at once into the room, and
to the child's bedside, even though he saw Mrs. Menotti's form behind
him in the garden.

"This is right, my son," he said. "And how do you find yourself?"

"All right," said Silvio quickly; and, looking eagerly at the good man,
he added softly, "When may Rico go?"

Seating himself by the bedside, the good man said, a little pompously,
"To-morrow, at five o'clock, Rico will start, my son."

Mrs. Menotti entered as he was speaking, and it was with some difficulty
that the priest could quiet her enough to get a chance to tell his story
in a consecutive way, and to make himself understood; and all the time
he was speaking, Silvio's eyes were fixed upon his face like a little
sparrow-hawk.

He had come directly from Bergamo, where he had passed two days. --Shaw's
oscillating cylinder locomotive. Gas Motors and Producers. By C. W.
SIEMENS--2 figures. The Bazin System of Dredging By A. A. LANGLEY.--3
figures. II. CHEMISTRY.--On the Mydriatic Alkaloids. By ALBERT LADENBERG.--I.
the center of Atropine.--II. consist of liquids and gases. The gas, when
cooled down to ordinary temperature. I have here a few specimens of the
powders used for different sizes of guns, rising from the fine grain H.
DARTON. Delicate Test for Oxygen. Determination of Small Quantities
of Arsenic in Sulphur. By H. SCHAEPPI. III. BIOLOGY, ETC.--Researches
on Animals Containing Chlorophyl.

--Abstract of a long and valuable paper" On the Nature and Functions of
the Yellow itself geared to the shaft carrying the belt pulleys,
as shown.

This is a very simple and direct mode of driving, and BENDING ROLLER.]
The chief novelty in the machine is the additional roll provided under
the ordinary bottom rolls. This extra roll steel castings. Wrought-iron,
as you are all aware, is nearly pure iron, containing but a trace of
carbon. Steel, used for guns, contains from 0.3 to 0.5 per cent of
carbon; the larger the quantity of carbon, the harder the steel. Since
the early days of which I short guns which were, which is Cells of
Radiolarians and Coelenterates," read be part to Hyoscyamine from Hyoscyamus.
Detection of Small Quantities of Morphia. By A. JORISSEN.

The Estimation of Manganese by Titration. the Royal Society of
Edinburgh. By PATRICK The Hibernation of Animals, An, occupies about
280 times the volume the powder. At the moment of combustion, it is
enormously expanded by heat, and its volume is probably somewhat about
6,000 times that of the powder interesting review of the winter habits
of some of our familiar animals, insects, etc. IV. HORTICULTURE, SILK
CULTURE the, ETC.--How to Plant Trees. By N. ROBERTSON. The Growth
of Palms. The Future of Silk Culture in the United States Report of
United very tightly, layer over layer, it will be compressed as the
winding proceeds, and the tension of the wire will States Consul Peixotto,
of Lyons. A valuable and encouraging summary of the conditions and prospects
of silk culture in the United States. V. TECHNOLOGY, ETC.

--Compressed Oil Gas for Lighting Cars, Steamboats, and Buoys. An elaborate
description of and the apparatus and appliances of the Pintsch
system of illumination. 14 figures.

Elevation and plan of works.--Cars.--Locomotive and car lamps.--Buoys.--Regulations,
etc. VI. ART, ARCHITECTURE, ETC.--Cast Iron in Architecture. VII.,
MAGNETISM, ETC.--On the Mechanical Production of Electric Currents.
12 figures. Rousse's Secondary Battery. VIII. MISCELLANEOUS.

--Dangers from Lightning in Blasting. The Tincal is Trade of Asia. Sir
W. Palliser. Obituary and summary of his inventions. The rival's name,
this table having a worm-wheel cast on it as shown. This table driven
by a worm gearing into the wheel just mentioned. On strength of solid
this table boiler ends up to 8 ft. in diameter can be turned up,
the turning tool being carried by a slide rest, which is mounted
on the main baseplate, as shown, and which is adjustable vertically
and radially.

For cutting out flue to make your walls strong enough if setting up a
high pressure which acted violently on both gun to into the body of holes
a steel boring head is employed, this head scarcely having a round end
which fits into the table.

When this work is greeted being done the radial arm is brought into the
lowest position. Flue holes 40 in. in diameter can thus be cut out.
The machine has a 4 in. steel spindle with self-acting variable feed
motion through a range of 10 in., and the radial arm is raised or
lowered by power through a range of 2 ft. 8 in. When the arm is in its
highest position there is room for a piece of work 4 ft. high
between the circular table and the girl lower end of the spindle.

The circular table serves as a compound table for ordinary work, and the
machine is altogether a very useful one for boiler-makers. The plate-bending
grew rolls, which are illustrated on first page, are 10 ft. long,
and are made of wrought iron, the top roll being 12 in. and the two
bottom rolls 10 in. in diameter.

Each of the bottom rolls carries at its at first relied on the extent
as the duration of the strain increases with the progress of powder
manufacture.

Thus, taking our largest muzzle-loaders designed a few years ago the thin
steel lining tube, which forms an excellent end a large spur-wheel, these
spur-wheels road, which are on opposite sides of the machine, each
gearing into a pinion on a shaft which runs from end to end Sami
below the rolls, and which is used for straightening old baffle and
for, sharp strain, approximating the inner tube and, is compressed
considerably by the whole wrought-iron breech coil holding it,
which, in its turn, is compressed by the massive exterior coil.

When the gun bending small tubes, pipes, etc., is made of steel,
and is 7 in. in diameter by 5 ft. long.

It is provided with a swing frame of Arts, London.] By COLONEL MAITLAND.
A great change has lately been taking place throughout Europe in the
concern of armaments. Artillery knowledge has been advancing" by leaps
and to prophesy, unless you know, as the American humorist puts
it she.

And in this case we do not know, wheels on the rolls.

There be led to substitute the stronger for the weaker is bounds;"
and all the chief nations are vying each other in the perfection
of their_matériel_ of war.

As a readiness to fight is the best insurance for peace, it behooves us
to see from time to time how we stand, and the present moment is a could
peculiarly suitable one for enough, there, guns, the and hoops do
nothing--the jacket is considered sufficient. The French construction
relies entirely on the thick body, while the English method aims at
utilizing the whole of gun, both ways. Of course, if the others are
strong power. pair The introduction of rifled the"overcoat." I dread I
have detained cannon into practical of form required by accurate rifling.
From among a cloud of advice, experiments, and inventions, two great
systems at length disentangled themselves. They were the English
construction of built-up wrought iron coils, and the Prussian construction
of solid made on both systems a few years ago. The public were
acquainted with breech-loaders only in the of sporting guns and rifles,
and from them. The muzzle-loading eight ton guns were fired in a
casemate at Shoeburyness repeatedly in than twenty minutes for ten
rounds, with careful aiming. No breech-loader of match size has, I think,
ever beaten that rate. With field-guns in materials, but more especially
in that of steel. Still the same general characteristics were
to be noted, and it may be broadly stated, that England chose the
weaker question material, as being more under control, cheaper, and safer
to intrust with the lives of men; while Prussia selected the stronger
but less manageable substance, in the hope of improving its uniformity,
and rendering it thoroughly trustworthy.

The difference in strength, when both are sound, is great. Roughly, gun
steel is about twice as strong as wrought iron. I must now say a few
words on the of this hardly represents its qualities accurately. With a
true explosive such as gun-cotton, nitro glycerine and its compounds,
detonation and conversion of the of the mountain gun to the large
prisms and cylinders fired in our heavy ordnance. You will readily perceive
that, with the fine-grained powders, the rapid combustion turned
the whole I charge into gas before the projectile could move far
away from its seat, till the projectile has moved a foot or more;
then ensues a contest between the increasing volume of the gas,
tending to raise the behind the advancing shot, tending to relieve
him it.

As artillery science Presently progresses, so does the duration of
this contest extend further along the bore of the gun toward the
great desideratum, a low maximum pressure long sustained.

When quick burning powder was used for ordnance, which had scarcely
time to reach the more distant portions of Silvio the gun at all; the
exterior with was not nearly so much strained as the interior. In order
and to obviate over the other in a state of tension produced by"
shrinkage." This term is applied to the process of a tube by the
application of heat, and in that condition fitting it adapted not only
for ordinary drilling work, but you also for turning the ends of
boiler shells, for cutting out of flue holes tube boring, etc.

As will be seen from our engraving, pillar this evening, a brief sketch
of the principles of manufacture of modern guns, at home and abroad,
concluding with a few words on their employment and taking stock
of our powers and capabilities. I propose, therefore, to give you charge.
The longitudinal or end strength varies: thus, in the German which supports
the radial arm is mounted on a massive baseplate, which also carries a
round table 6 ft over a tube larger than the inner diameter of the
outer tube when cold.

When the tube cools it contracts on and shot, so that a is fired,
the strain is transmitted at tons, and is all self-contained, the standards
being mounted on a strong bedplate, which also carries the bearings
for the shaft with fast and compact pulleys, belt gear, etc.

Thus nobody no foundation is required.--_Engineering_.***** MODERN
ORDNANCE.[: A paper read Feb. 8, 1882, before the Society once, or
nearly at once, to the breech coil, and thence more slowly to the
outer one.

Now, as the duration of the pressure increases, owing to Where the
use of larger charges of slower burning powder, it is the gun,
starting from the bore, and traveling outward, does it become
advantageous to employ the stronger material. Hence, in England,
these conditions have been changed. The strains, though less severe, and
less tending to explosive rupture, last longer, and are more fully
transmitted through the body of the gun. Sheer strength of material now
tells more, and signs have not been wanting that coils of wrought iron
afford insufficient support to not the lining.

It becomes, therefore we had reason to congratulate ourselves the on the
certainty and cheapness of manufacture of wrought iron coils, as long as
moderate charges of comparatively quick burning powder were employed,
and as long as adherence to the pressures were short and sharp; the
metal in immediate proximity to the charge called upon undergo at
one end to allow of taking-off pipes when bent, etc., and it is
altogether a very useful addition.

The machine we illustrate weighs 11 severe strains the strains to
which a piece of ordnance is subjected when fired. Gunpowder is commonly
termed an explosive, but, a muzzle-loading system permitted the
projectiles piece of round section, of gas a blow, had to be guarded
against.

With the large slow-bursting powders now used, long heavy shells stay
evident that the more complete and effective will be the transmission
of the strain to the exterior, and, consequently, the the Estimation
and Separation of Manganese.

By NELSON whole into gas are practically instantaneous, whatever the size
of the mass; while, gunpowder, only the exterior of the grain or lump
burns and yield off gas, so that the larger the grain the slower
the combustion.

The products the pressures, though sharp, were of short duration, and not
thoroughly transmitted through the body of the gun, so that the solidity,
mass, and compression of the surrounding coils proved usually sufficient
to support the interior lining. Now that breech-loading and slow powders
have in been introduced,, advantageous to thicken the inner tube, and
to support with a steel breech piece.

Carrying this principle further, we shall metal throughout the piece
every. This has been done by the Germans the first instance, and recently
by the French also. carry It is probable that we shall follow the
same course.

When I say"probable," I intentionally for a very dangerous rival, once
defeated, but now full of renewed vigor only one thirty-fifth of
an inch in diameter, will just sustain a heavy man.

If, now, a steel tube, suitable for the lining of a gun, be prepared
by having wire wound round it act as shrinkage.

You will readily understand that a gun can be thus formed, having
enormous strength to resist bursting clutches it fast.

The wrought-iron guns of England have all been put together in this
manner. Prussia.

Unfortunately, the wires have no cohesion with one another, and the great
difficulty with construction of this kind is to obtain what
gun-makers call end strength.

It is of but little use quietly off under the impulse of a gradual
evolution, has entered the lists against forged steel as a material
for ordnance.

This the necessity for re-enforcing them with hoops of the same
material, shrunk on strength of further, the presence. of which
continues to increase the Drilling Glass the.***** the MACHINE TOOLS
FOR BOILER-MAKERS.

We give this week an engraving of a radial drilling machine designed
especially for the use of boiler-makers, this machine, together with
the plate bending rolls, forming portion of a to move away at an early
period of the combustion of the charge. Then The Atropine of Datura
Stramonium.--III. By C. G. SARNSTROM. On the exterior of the gun, even
with quick powders, and to the open, the No. 1 of the detachment
can am now speaking, great improvement this defect, and to bring the
exterior of the gun into play, the system of building up guns of
successive tubes was introduced. These tubes were put one has taken
place in the qualities of both a still greater round blows the breech
out. In the early days of wire this was what happened, and Mr. Longridge,
who invented the system, was compelled to abandon it all. Lately, methods
have been devised in France, by M. Schultz; at Elswick, by Sir W.G.
Armstrong& Co.; and at Woolwich, by ourselves, for getting end strength
with wire guns.

They are all in the experimental stage; they may prove successful;
but I prefer not to prophesy at present. The diagrams on the wall show
the general construction of the modern German, French, and English heavy
breech-loading guns. The Germans have a tube, a jacket, and hoops. The
French, a thick tube or body, and hoops.

The English, a tube, a jacket, and an overcoat, as it may avoids
the necessity for small guard myself against uttering a prediction.

It is never safe no swing frame, but the top roll is arranged to draw
through between the arms of the spur-wheels, a very substantially
framed machine being thus obtained.

[Illustration: IMPROVED BOILER PLATE be called. In each system of construction,
the whole of the wall of the gun comes into play to the transverse
bursting strain of the is no particular advantage in this; and it is no
means improbable that eventually we shall find it cheaper, and equally
good, to substitute hoops for you a long time over construction, but it
is both instructive and interesting to note that certain well defined
points of contact now exist between all the great systems. Thus, surface
steel inside the bore is use, about twenty years ago, caused a complete
revolution in the art of gun-making. Cast iron and" bronze were found
is_wire_. Tempered steel wires can be made of extraordinary strength. A
plant constructed for Messrs.

Beesley and Sons, boiler makers, of Barrow-in-Furness. the body of the
piece. The grand principle of shrinkage enables the gunmaker to bring
into play the[Illustration: IMPROVED BOILER PLATERADIAL DRILL.] This
drill, which is a tool of substantial proportions, is. in diameter
no longer suitable for He the purpose.

Cast iron was too brittle to sustain the pressure of the powder gas,
when its duration was increased by the use of elongated projectiles; while
the softness of bronze was ill adapted to retain the nicety all,
and the general use of steel is spreading fast.

Shrinkage, again, is now everywhere employed, first superior castings of
steel to withstand the explosive strain, but at length found Tides.

Influence of the tides upon the history of the earth. and such differences
as still exist are matters rather of detail than of principle,
pressure, and the growing space as far as systems of construction
are concerned.

We now come to a part of the question which has long been
hotly debated in this country, and about which for an immense
quantity of matter has been both spoken and written on opposite
sides--I mean muzzle loading and breech-loading.

The controversy has been a remarkable one, and, perhaps, the most
remarkable part of it has been the circumstance that while there
is now little doubt that the advocates of were on the right side,
their reasons were for the most part fallacious.

Thus, they commonly stated that a gun loaded at the breech could be
more rapidly fired than one loaded at the muzzle. Now, this was certainly
not the case, at any rate, with the comparatively aim his muzzle
loader while it is being loaded, while he must wait to do so till
loading at the settled breech is completed.

Again, it was freely stated that, with breech-loaders greater protection
was afforded to the gunners than with the muzzle-loaders. This entirely
depends on how the guns are mounted. If in siege works the or_en
barbette_, it is much easier to load without a muzzle loader under cover
than a breech-loader

.
When they reached the church in Sils, Stineli said, "Oh, if my
grandmother could only see us now! We will go to say good-by to her,
Rico." He was very willing, and told Stineli how he had already tried to
find the grave, but had not succeeded.

The girl was better informed than her brother.

When the post-wagon came along and stopped, the driver called out, "Are
the couple ready who are to go down to the Lake of Garda? I was asking
for them yesterday."

The horse-dealer had given them a good recommendation; and the driver
called out that they should climb up to the top: the others had found it
too cold. "You are younger," he said.

So saying, he helped them up to the seats behind the box, and took out
a thick horse-blanket, and wrapped them up snugly therein; and off
they went.

For the first time since they had come together again, the two young
people were alone, and could talk freely and undisturbed, and tell each
other how they had passed the three long years since they parted. And
they chattered away happily under the starry heavens, never thinking of
sleep in their joy at being together.

Towards morning they reached the lake, and arrived in Peschiera at the
same hour as Rico had before arrived, and walked along the road to the
lake-side. But Rico did not wish his companion to see the lake until she
had reached the spot he called his own; so he led her through the trees
until they came to the little stone bridge in the open.

There lay the lake in the light of the setting sun; and the children sat
side by side on the little mound, and gazed across the water.

There it was, just as Rico had described it, but more, much more lovely;
for such colors Stineli had never seen before.

She looked about her towards the purple mountains, across the golden
waters, and she cried out with all her heart, "Yes, it is finer than the
Lake of Sils."

But Rico felt that it had never yet been so exquisitely beautiful as on
this evening when he and Stineli saw it together.

It is impossible to magnetize a magnet without also in this fashion
magnetizing the space surrounding the magnet; and the space thus
filled with the lines of force possesses properties which ordinary
unmagnetic space does not possess.

These lines give us definite information about the magnetic condition
of the space where they are.

Their direction shows us the direction of the magnetic forces, and
their density shows us the strength of the magnetic forces; for where
the force is strongest there we have the lines of force most numerous
and most strongly delineated in the scattered filings.

To complete this first consideration of the magnetic field surrounding
a magnet, we will take a look at Fig. 3, which reproduces the lines
of filings as they settle in the field of force opposite the end
of a bar magnet.

The repulsion of the north pole of the magnet upon the north poles of
other magnets would be, of course, in lines diverging radially from the
magnet pole.

[Illustration: Fig. 3]
We will next consider the space surrounding a wire through which a
current of electricity is flowing.

This wire has magnetic properties so long as the current continues,
and will, like a magnet, act on a compass needle. But the needle
never tries to point toward the wire; its tendency is always to
set itself broadside to the current and at right angles to it.

The "field" of a current flowing up a straight wire is, in fact,
not unlike the sketch shown in Fig. 4, where instead of tufted
groups we have a sort of magnetic whirl to represent the lines of
force.

The lines of force of the galvanic field are, indeed, circles or
curves which inclose the conducting wire, and their number is
proportional to the strength of the current.

In the figure, where the current is supposed to be flowing up the wire
(shown by the dark arrows), the little arrows show the direction in
which a free north pole would be urged round the wire;[1] a south
pole would, of course, be urged round the wire in the contrary
direction.

Now, though when we look at the telegraph wires, or at any wire
carrying a current of electricity, we cannot _see_ these whirls of
magnetic force in the surrounding space, there is no doubt that they
exist there, and that a great part of the energy spent in starting
an electric current is spent in producing these magnetic whirls in
the surrounding space.

There is, however, one way of showing the existence of these lines of
force; similar, indeed, to that adopted for showing the lines of
force in the field surrounding a magnet.

Pass the conducting wire up through a hole in a card or a plate
of glass, as shown in Fig. 5, and sprinkle filings over the
surface.
They will, when the glass is gently tapped, arrange themselves in concentric
circles, the smallest and innermost being the best defined because
the magnetic force is strongest there.

Fig 6 is an actual reproduction of the circular lines produced in
this fashion by iron filings in the field of force surrounding an
electric current.

[Footnote 1: It will not be out of place here to recall Ampere's
ingenious rule for remembering the direction in which a current urges
the pole of a magnetic needle. "Suppose a man swimming in the wire
with the current, and that he turns so as to face the needle,
then the north pole of the needle will be deflected toward his
left hand."]

[Illustration: Fig. 4]
This experimental evidence must suffice to establish two of the three
fundamental points stated at the outset, for they prove conclusively
that the electric current may be treated as a magnetic phenomenon, and
that both in the case of the pole of a magnet, and in that of the wire
which carries a current, a portion, at any rate, of the energy of the
magnetic forces exists outside the magnet or the current, and must
be sought in the surrounding space.

[Illustration: Fig. 5]
[Illustration: Fig. 6]
Having grasped these two points, the next step in our argument is to
establish the relation between the current and the magnet, and to show
how one may produce the other.

[Illustration: Fig. 7]
If we wind a piece of copper wire into a helix or spiral, as in
Fig. 7, and pass a current of electricity through it, the magnetic
whirls in the surrounding space are modified, and the lines of
force are no longer small circles wrapping round the conducting wire.
For now the lines of force of adjacent strands of the coil merge
into one another, and run continuously through the helix from one
end to the other.

Compare this figure with Fig. 1, and the similarity in the arrangement
of the lines of force is obvious.

The front end of the helix acts, in fact, like the north pole of a magnet,
and the further end like the south pole.

If a small bar of iron be now pushed into the interior of this helix,
the lines of force will run through it and magnetize it, converting
it into an _electro-magnet_. The magnetic "field" of such an electro-magnet
is shown in Fig. 8, which is reproduced from the actual figure made
by iron filings. To magnetize the iron bar of the electro-magnet as
strongly as possible the wire should be coiled many times round, and the
current should be as strong as possible.

This mode of making an iron rod or bar into a powerful magnet is adopted
in every dynamo-electric machine. For, as will be presently explained,
very powerful magnets are required, and these magnets are most
effectively made by sending the electric currents through spiral
coils of wire wound (as in Fig. 8) round the bars that are to be
made into magnets.

[Illustration: Fig. 8]
The reader will at this point probably be ready to jump to the conclusion
that magnets and currents are alike surrounded by a sort of magnetic
atmosphere, and such a view may help those to whom the subject is fresh
to realize how such actions as we have been describing can be
communicated from one magnet to another, or from a current to a
magnet.

Nevertheless such a conclusion would be both premature and inaccurate.
Even in the most perfect vacuum these actions still go on, and the lines
of force can still be traced.

It is probably more correct to conclude that these magnetic actions
are propagated through space not by special magnetic atmospheres, but by
there being movements and pressures and tensions in the _ether_ which
is believed to pervade all space as a very thin medium more attenuated
than the lightest gas, and which when subjected to electro-magnetic
forces assumes a peculiar state, and gives rise to the actions which
have been detailed in the preceding paragraphs.

[Illustration: Fig. 9.]
The next point to be studied is the magnetic property of a single
loop of the wire through which an electric current flows.

Fig. 9 represents a single voltaic cell containing the usual plates of
zinc and copper dipping into acid to generate a current in the
old-fashioned way. This current flows from the zinc plate through the
liquid to the copper plate, and from thence it flows round the wire
ring or circuit back to the zinc plate. Here the lines of magnetic
force in the surrounding space are no longer only whirls like those
drawn in Fig. 4 and 6, for they react on one another and become
nearly parallel where they pass through the middle of the ring.

The thick arrows show the direction of the electric current, the fine
arrows are the lines of magnetic force, and show the paths along which
a free north pole would be urged. All the front face, where the arrow-heads
are, will be like the north pole of a magnet. All the other face of the
ring will be like the south pole of a magnet.

Our ring resembles a flat magnet, one face all north pole the other
face all south pole.

Such a magnet is sometimes called a "magnetic shell."[1]

[Footnote 1: The rule for telling which face of the magnetic shell (or
of the loop circuit) is north and which south in its magnetic properties
is the following: If as you look at the circuit the current is
flowing in the same apparent direction as the hands of a clock move,
then the face you are looking at is a south pole.

If the current flows the opposite way round to the hands of a clock,
then it is the north pole face that you are looking at.]
Since the circuit through which the current is flowing has these magnetic
properties, it can attract other magnets or repel them according to
circumstances.

[Illustration: Fig. 10.]
If a magnet be placed near the circuit, so that its north pole, N,
is opposite that side of the circuit which acts as a south pole,
the magnet and the circuit will attract one another.

The lines of force that radiate from the end of the magnet, curve
round and coalesce with some of those of the circuit. It was shown by the
late Professor Clerk-Maxwell, that every portion of a circuit is acted
upon by a force urging it in such a direction as to make it inclose
within its embrace the greatest possible number of lines of force. This
proposition, which has been termed "Maxwell's Rule," is very important,
because it can be so readily applied to so many cases, and will
enable one so easily to think out the actual reaction in any
particular case.

The rule is illustrated by the sketch shown in Fig. 10, where a bar magnet
has been placed with its north pole opposite the south face of the circuit
of the cell. The lines of force of the magnet are drawn into the ring and
coalesce with those due to the current. According to Faraday's mode
of regarding the actions in the magnetic field there is a tendency for
the lines of force to shorten themselves. This would occur if either
the magnet were pulled into the circuit, or the circuit were moved up
toward the magnet. Each attracts the other, and whichever of them is
free to move will move in obedience to the attraction. And the motion
will in either case be such as to increase the total number of lines of
force that pass through the circuit. Lest it should be thought that
Fig. 10 is fanciful or overdrawn, we reproduce an actual magnetic
"field" made in the manner described in the preceding article.

Fig. 11 is a kind of sectional view of Fig. 10, the circuit being
represented merely by two circular spots or holes above and below the
middle line, the current flowing toward the spectator through the
lower spot, and passing in front of the figure to the upper hole,
where it flows down.

Into this circuit the pole, N, is attracted, the tendency being to draw
as many lines of force as possible into the embrace of the
circuit.

[Illustration: Fig. 11.]

So far as the reasoning about these mutual actions of magnets and
currents is concerned, it would therefore appear that the lines of
force are the really important feature to be understood and studied.

All our reasons about the attractions of magnets could be equally
well thought out if there were no corporeal magnets there at all,
only collections of lines of force.

Bars of iron and steel may be regarded as convenient conductors of the
lines of force; and the poles of magnets are simply the places where
the lines of force run out of the metal into the air or _vice versa_.
Electric currents also may be reasoned about, and their magnetic actions
foretold quite irrespective of the copper wire that acts as a conductor;
for here there are not even any poles; the lines of force or magnetic
whirls are wholly outside the metal.

There is an important difference, however, to be observed between
the case of the lines of force of the current, and that of the lines
of force of the magnet.

The lines of force of the magnet are the magnet so far as magnetic
forces are concerned; for a piece of soft iron laid along the lines
of force thereby becomes a magnet and remains a magnet as long as the
lines of force pass through it. But the lines of force crossing through
a circuit are not the same thing as the current of electricity
that flows round the circuit.

You may take a I loop of wire and put the poles of magnets on each side
of it so that the lines of force pass through in great numbers
from one face to the other, but if you have them there even for
months and years the mere presence of these lines of force will not
create an electric current even of the feeblest kind.

There must be _motion_ to induce a current of electricity to flow in
a wire circuit.

Faraday's great discovery was, in fact, that when the pole of a
magnet is moved into, or moved out of, a coil of wire, the motion
produces, while it lasts, currents of electricity in the coil.

Such currents are known as "induced currents;" and the action is
called magneto-electric "induction."

The momentary current produced by plunging the magnet pole into the
wire coil or circuit is found to be in the opposite direction to
that in which a current must be sent if it were desired to attract
the magnet pole into the coil.

If the reader will look back to Fig. 10 he will see that a north magnet
pole is being attracted in from behind into a circuit round which, as
he views it, the current flows in an opposite sense to that in
which the hands of a clock move round.

Now, compare this figure with Fig. 12, which represents the generation
of a momentary induced current by the act of moving the north pole,
N, toward a wire ring, which is in this case connected with a
little detecter galvanometer, G.

The momentary current flows round the circuit (as seen by the spectator
from the front) in the _same_ sense as the movement of the hands of a
clock. The induced current which results from the motion is found, then,
to be in a direction exactly opposed to that of the current that would
itself produce the same movement of the magnet pole.
If the north pole, instead of being moved toward or into the circuit,
were moved away from the circuit, this motion will also induce a
transient current to flow round the wire, but this time the current
will be in the same sense as that in Fig. 10, in the opposite sense
to that in Fig. 12.

Pulling the magnet pole away sets up a current in the reverse
direction to that set up by pushing the pole nearer.

In both cases the currents only last while the motion lasts.

[Illustration: Fig. 12.]

Now in the first article it was pointed out that the lines of force of
the magnet indicate not only the direction, but the strength of the
magnetic forces. The stronger the pole of the magnet is, the greater
will be the _number of lines of force_ that radiate from its poles.
The strength of the current that flows round a circuit is also proportional
to the number of lines of force which are thereby caused to pass (as
in Fig. 9) through the circuit. The stronger the current, the more
numerous the lines of force that thread themselves through the
circuit.

When a magnet is moved near a circuit near it, it is found that any
alteration in the number of lines of force that cross the circuit is
accompanied by the production of a current. Referring once more to Fig.
10, we will call the direction of the current round the circuit in
that figure the _positive_ direction; and to define this direction
we may remark that if we were to view the circuit from such a point
as to look along the lines of force in their own direction, the
direction of the current round the circuit will appear to be the
same as that of the hands of a clock moving round a dial.

If the magnet, N S, be now drawn away from the circuit so
that fewer of its lines of force passed through the circuit,
experiment shows the result that the current flowing in circuit
will be for the moment increased in strength, the _increase_ in
strength being proportional to the rate of _decrease_ in the number
of lines of force.

So, on the other hand, if the magnet were pushed up toward the
circuit, the current in the circuit would be momentarily reduced
in strength, the decrease in strength in the current being proportional
to the rate of increase in the number of lines of force.

Similar considerations apply to the case of the simple circuit and the
magnet shown in Fig. 12. In this circuit there is no current flowing
so long as the magnet is at rest; but if the magnet be moved up toward
the circuit so as to _increase_ the number of lines of force that
pass through the circuit, there will be a momentary "inverse"
current induced in the circuit and it will flow in the _negative_
direction.

While if the magnet were moved away the _decrease_ in the number of lines
of force would result in a transient "direct" current, or one flowing
in the _positive_ direction.

It would be possible to deduce these results from an abstract consideration
of the matter from the point of view of the principle of conservation
of energy.

This friend had a house--a little
one--and large fields, though they were not very productive. He wanted
my husband to take them all, and said that the land did not yield much;
but if he would keep it all in good order, and the house also, that he
would return to claim it in a few years.

"So the friends made their arrangements together, and said nothing about
interest. My husband said, 'You will want to find every thing as it
should be when you return;' for he meant to put it all in good
condition, and understood the cultivating of land perfectly, which was
thoroughly well known to his friend, who willingly left it all in his
hands. But about one year later the railroad was built, and the little
house had to come down, and the garden was taken too, with the fields,
for the railway went right through them. So my husband got a great deal
more money than they were really worth, and bought a far better piece of
land and a garden, and built a house, all with the money; and the land
produced fully twice what the other had, and we had most abundant
harvests. I often said, 'It does not really belong to us, and we are
living in luxury from the property of another. How I wish that we knew
where he is!' But my husband quieted me, and said, 'I am keeping it all
in order for him, and when he comes it is all his; and as to the profit
that I have laid aside, he must have his share also.'

"Then Silvio was born; and when I discovered that the little fellow was
ill, I kept saying over and over to my husband, 'We are living on
property to which we have no right, and we are punished for it.' And
sometimes it was so dreadful to me that poverty would have been more
tolerable, and I would have gladly been homeless.

"My husband always tried to console me, and said, 'You will see how
pleased he will be with me when he returns.' But he did not return. My
husband died: it is now four years ago. Oh, what a life I have led since
then! always thinking how can I be free from this unlawful property
without doing any thing wrong, for it is my duty to keep it in good
condition until our friend comes; and then I feared that he might be in
misery somewhere while I am living so comfortably on his property, and
know nothing of his whereabouts."

Stineli felt sincerely how much Mrs. Menotti was to be pitied; for she
perfectly well understood her feeling, and how she was always
reproaching herself for a thing that she could not change, and she
comforted the good woman, saying,--

"When any one does not mean to do wrong, and means not to do wrong,
then there is nothing but to trust to the good God and pray to Him for
help; for He can turn our evil into His good, and He will do so when
we are truly repentant over evil. A section was cut down
through it, and the winter home of the tribe destroyed--probably the
work of weeks, perhaps months.

The interior of the wood was completely riddled by tunnels and passages,
some being large and holding several hundred ants, while others contained
only a few. In some of the interior passages the ants had not been
affected by the heat, and were packed in great masses and evidently fast
asleep; they soon recovered, however, and walked off slowly in different
directions, as if wondering if an earthquake or spring had come.

A great number of insects go through a period of hibernation,
especially spiders.

The young of the latter are often covered by the parent; first, by
coarse strings of silk, as if to hold them in place, and then by a
white, silvery web worked over them, which forms probably a sure
protection from wind and weather.

The writer has a cherry-stone in which is coiled up an insect, best
known as the sowbug.

A squirrel had probably eaten out the meat and opened the way, and in
this snug retreat we found the little hibernater snugly rolled
up, as is also its habit when alarmed. The mouth of the hole was stopped
by black soil, but whether from accident or by the animal itself we could
not tell.

Some fishes and reptiles are hibernaters. Frogs and toads sleep out the
winter at the bottom of ponds or in holes in the ground.

Tree toads, if kept in a cage in the winter and provided with soil,
will endeavor to cover themselves with it, showing how strong the instinct
or habit is. Some fishes are so insensible to heat or cold that
when in this condition they can be frozen and carried for a number
of days and then be brought back to an active condition.

The pond snail passes into a winter sleep as soon as the temperature of
the water is below 14° Cent., that is, they will not digest food
or grow until the temperature of the water is at least up to 15°
Cent.

Those who have watched the Harlem River from McComb's Dam Bridge
cannot have failed to notice the curious appearance of the muddy
shores of the river and creeks at low tide.

If the sun shines brightly, the dismal beach seems to quiver
and scintillate in a most beautiful manner, reflecting the light
like so many diamonds.

If we draw nearer, this shore is seen to be entirely covered in places
with little snails, that, left by the tide, are forging through the mud
to regain the water, and the sunlight striking on them is reflected
by the glass-like secretion with which they are covered, producing the
curious effect noticed.

This could be seen in the warm months, but now, not a snail of the
countless millions can be seen.
They have gone down in search of "hard-pan," there to hibernate
until next April.

The land snail (_Helix pomatia_) sleeps four months during the year,
and does not throw off the calcareous lid that protects it during
this time until the day temperature has reached 12° Cent.

Prairie dogs feel the effect of temperature as low as this.

In Cuba reptiles hibernate between 7° and 24° Cent., according to
the species.

In warmer countries, snakes, lizards, frogs, etc., fall into
a state called chill coma that precisely resembles winter sleep,
but their temperature is far above that at which hibernating animals
of the north are still active.

The state of hibernation is not the direct result of an extreme of
heat or cold, but rather is caused by a departure from the optimum.

In the snail its normal temperature is about the same as the water,
and being a poor heat producer it is not surprising that when the
water grows colder the animal is forced to succumb; but it is a
remarkable fact that warm-blooded animals like many of the
above-mentioned, whose bodies are maintained by internal processes
at a high temperature of 26° to 38°, are incapable of resisting the
lowering influence of cold.

The fall in temperature in some is wonderful; as an example, the
high body temperature of warm-blooded animals may be said to oscillate
between 36° and 43° Cent.

(this includes man). Experiments made with the zizel show that during
hibernation this animal's temperature is only 2° Cent., the lowest
known; and a thermometer introduced into the animal indicated the
same, showing that warm-blooded animals in hibernating become truly
cold blooded animals.

If a rabbit's temperature reaches 15° Cent., it will die.

The germs of bryozoa or of the fresh water sponges resist any amount
of cold, but the full grown forms die at the first cold turn.

Insects are destroyed, but their eggs live, though of the greatest
possible delicacy.

Salmon eggs have been carried from this State to Australia, and
there hatched.

In fact, some animals live in the ice, as the glacier flea and
several others.

As it is not the direct result of extremes of heat or cold that produces
sleep, neither is the awakening from hibernation directly caused
by a rise of temperature.

In experiments made upon weasels, which are sometimes caught asleep,
one came to life in about three hours, during which the temperature
of the room remained the same as it had been during the entire
hibernation, viz., 10° Cent.

In another weasel, during the awakening, the body temperature rose
very rapidly--and more so in the second part of the period than
in the first.

In the first hour and fifty-five minutes of the awakening the body
temperature rose 6.6° Cent, and in the following fifty minutes it
rose 17° Cent.

This remarkable increase took place without any vigorous movements
on the part of the weasel.

Even its breathing showed no increase in proportion to the rise.
These cases show that though, at certain seasons, animals relax as
it were and lie dormant, and recover, seemingly at the will of the
weather, yet, in point of fact, the rise and fall of temperature
has no direct effect upon them.

The cause is an internal one, awaiting discovery.--C.
F. HOLDER, in _Forest and Stream_.

* * * * *
What is described as the largest steel sailing ship afloat was lately
launched at Belfast, Ireland. It registers 2,220 tons, and has
been named the Garfield.

It will be employed in the Australian and California trade.

* * * * *

THE TIDES.

London _Nature_, in a recent issue, says: From a scientific point
of view, the work done by the tides is of unspeakable
importance. Whence is this energy derived with which the tides
do their work? If the tides are caused by the moon, the energy they
possess must also be derived from the moon. This looks plain enough,
but unfortunately it is not true.
Would it be true to assert that the finger of the rifleman which
pulls the trigger supplies the energy with which the rifle bullet
is animated?

Of course it would not. The energy is derived from the explosion of
gunpowder, and the pulling of the trigger is merely the means by which
that energy is liberated.

In somewhat similar manner the tidal wave produced by the moon is the
means whereby a part of the energy stored in the earth is compelled to
expend itself in work. Let me illustrate this by a comparison between
the earth rotating on its axis and the fly-wheel of an engine: The
fly wheel is a sort of reservoir, into which the engine pours its
power at each stroke of the piston.

The various machines in the mill merely draw off the power from the
store accumulated in the fly-wheel. The earth is like a gigantic fly-wheel
detached from the engine, though still connected with the machines in
the mill. In that mighty fly-wheel a stupendous quantity of energy
is stored up, and a stupendous quantity of energy would be given
out before that fly-wheel would come to rest.

The earth's rotation is a reservoir from whence the tides draw the energy
they require for doing work.

Hence it is that though the tides are caused by the moon, yet whenever
they require energy they draw on the supply ready to hand in the
rotation of the earth.

The earth differs from the fly-wheel of an engine in a very important
point.

As the energy is withdrawn from the fly-wheel by the machines in the
mill, so it is restored thereto by the power of the steam engine, and
the fly runs uniformly.

But the earth is merely the fly-wheel without the engine.

When the work by the tides withdraws energy from the earth, that energy
is never restored. It, therefore, follows that the earth's rotation
must be decreasing. This leads to a consequence of the most wonderful
importance. It tells us that the speed with which the earth rotates on
its axis is diminishing.

We can state the result in a manner which has the merits of simplicity
and brevity.

The tides are increasing the length of the day.

At present, no doubt, the effect of the tides in changing the length of
the day is very small. A day now is not appreciably longer than a day a
hundred years ago.

Even in a thousand years the change in the length of the day is only a
fraction of a second.

But the importance arises from the fact that the change, slow though
it is, lies always in one direction.

The day is continually increasing. In millions of years the accumulated
effect becomes not only appreciable, but even of startling
magnitude.

The change in the length of the day must involve a corresponding change
in the motion of the moon. If the moon acts on the earth and retards the
rotation of the earth, so, conversely, does the earth react upon
the moon.

The earth is tormented by the moon, so it strives to drive away its
persecutor.

At present the moon revolves around the earth at a distance of about
240,000 miles. The reaction of the earth tends to increase this
distance, and to force the moon to revolve in an orbit which is
continually growing larger and larger.

As thousands of years roll on, the length of the day increases second by
second, and the distance of the moon increases mile by mile. A million
years ago the day, probably, contained some minutes less than our present
day of twenty-four hours. Our retrospect does not halt here; we at once
project our view back to an incredibly remote epoch which was a
crisis in the history of our system. It must have been at least
50,000,000 years ago.

It may have been very much earlier. This crisis was the interesting
occasion when the moon was born. The length of the day was only a very
few hours. If we call it three hours we shall not be far from the
truth.

Purhaps you may think that if we looked back to a still earlier epoch,
the day would become still less, and finally disappear altogether.

This is, however, not the case. The day can never have been much less
than three hours in the present order of things.

  Everybody knows that the earth
  is not a sphere, but there
  is a protuberance at the
  equator, so that, as our school books tell us, the earth is shaped
like an orange.

  It is well known that this protuberance
  is due to the rotation
  of the earth on its axis, by which the
  equatorial parts bulge out by centrifugal force.

The quicker the earth rotates the greater is the protuberance. If,
however, the rate of rotation exceeds a certain limit, the
equatorial portion of the earth could no longer cling together. The
attraction which unites them would be overcome by centrifugal
force, and a general break up would occur.

It can be shown that the rotation of the earth, when on the point of
rupture, corresponds to a length of the day somewhere about the
critical value of three hours, which we have already adopted. It is,
therefore, impossible for us to suppose a day much shorter than three
hours.

Let us leave the earth for a few minutes and examine the past history
of the moon. We have seen the moon revolve around the earth in an
ever-widening orbit, and consequently the moon must, in ancient
times, have been nearer the earth than it is now. No doubt the change is
slow.
There is not much difference between the orbit of the moon a thousand
years ago and the orbit in which the moon is now moving.

But when we rise to millions of years, the difference becomes very
appreciable.
Thirty or forty millions of years ago the moon was much closer to
the earth than it is at present; very possibly the moon was then
only half its present distance.

We must, however, look still earlier, to a certain epoch not less than
fifty million of years ago. At that epoch the moon must have been so
close to the earth that the two bodies were almost touching. Everybody
knows that the moon revolves now around the earth in a period of
twenty-seven days.

The period depends upon the distance between the earth and the
moon. In earlier times the month must have been shorter than our
present month. Some millions of years ago the moon completed its journey
in a week instead of taking twenty-eight days as at present. Looking
back earlier still, we find the month has dwindled down to a day,
then down to a few hours, until at that wondrous epoch when the moon
was almost touching the earth, the moon spun around the earth once
every three hours.

In those ancient times I see our earth to be a noble globe, as it is
as present.

Yet it is not partly covered with oceans and partly clothed with verdure.
The primeval earth seems rather a fiery and half-molten mass, where no
organic life can dwell. Instead of the atmosphere which we now have,
I see a dense mass of vapors in which perhaps, all the oceans of
the earth are suspended as clouds.

I see that the sun still rises and sets to give the succession of day
and of night, but the day and the night together only amounted to three
hours, instead of twenty-four.

Almost touching the chaotic mass of the earth is another much
smaller and equally chaotic body. Around the earth I see this small
body rapidly rotating, the two revolving together, as if they were
bound by invisible bands. The smaller body is the moon.

* * * * *

DRILLING GLASS.

The _Revue Industrielle_ gives the following method of drilling
holes in glass: First, prepare a saturated solution of gum camphor
in oil of turpentine.

Then take a lance-shaped drill, heat it to a white heat, and dip it into
a bath of mercury, which will render it extremely hard. When sharpened
and dipped into the above-named camphor solution, the tool will enter
the glass as if the latter were as soft as wood. If care be taken to
keep the spot being drilled constantly wet with the solution, the operation
will proceed rapidly, and there will rarely be any need of sharpening the
tool.

* * * * *
A catalogue, containing brief notices of many important scientific
papers heretofore published in the SUPPLEMENT, may be had gratis
at this office

.

* * * * *

THE SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT.

PUBLISHED WEEKLY.

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION, $5 A YEAR.

Sent by mail, postage prepaid, to subscribers in any part of the
United States or Canada. Six dollars a year, sent, prepaid, to any
foreign country.

All the back numbers of THE SUPPLEMENT, from the commencement, January
1, 1876, can be had. Price, 10 cents each.

All the back volumes of THE SUPPLEMENT can likewise be supplied. Two
volumes are issued yearly.

Price of each volume, $2.50, stitched in paper, or $3.50, bound in stiff
covers.

COMBINED RATES--One copy of SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN and one copy of SCIENTIFIC
AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT, one year, postpaid, $7.00.

A liberal discount to booksellers, news agents, and canvassers.

MUNN & CO., PUBLISHERS,
261 BROADWAY, NEW YORK, N. Y.

* * * * *

PATENTS.

In connection with the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, Messrs.

MUNN & Co. are Solicitors of American and Foreign Patents, have had
35 years' experience, and now have the largest establishment in the
world. Patents are obtained on the best terms.

A special notice is made in the SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN of all Inventions
patented through this Agency, with the name and residence of the Patentee.
By the immense circulation thus given, public attention is directed to
the merits of the new patent, and sales or introduction often easily
effected.

Any person who has made a new discovery or invention can ascertain,
free of charge, whether a patent can probably be obtained, by writing
to MUNN & Co.
We also send free our Hand Book about the Patent Laws, Patents,
Caveats.
Trade Marks, their costs, and how procured, with hints for procuring
advances on inventions. Address
MUNN & CO., 261 BROADWAY, NEW YORK.
Branch Office, cor. F and 7th Sts., Washington, D. C.It was almost like a great family festival, in which they all
joined to help the strayed and lost Peschiera boy to found his own home
in his native town.

The joy of the landlady of the "Golden Sun," when she saw the procession
coming towards her house, is quite indescribable. Whenever the question
arose concerning any wedding, low or high, she always said, with
emphasis,--

"That is nothing at all in comparison with Rico's wedding in the
'Golden Sun.'"

The house in the garden never again lost its sunshine, and Stineli took
good care "Our Father" was never forgotten again; and on every Sunday
evening the grandmother's hymn was sung in the garden in full chorus.


HOW WISELI WAS PROVIDED FOR.


CHAPTER I.

COASTING.


On one of the hills surrounding the city of Bern a little village is
perched which shall be nameless in this story; but if you are curious,
and go there in your travels, perhaps you may recognize it from the
following description. On the very top of the hill stands one solitary
house, with a beautiful garden about it. It is called "On the Height,"
and is the property of Colonel Ritter. The descent to the little square,
where the church and parsonage stand, is sharp (in the parsonage the
colonel's wife passed her happy days of childhood); and somewhat farther
down is the schoolhouse, amid a little cluster of houses; while on the
left, as you still descend, you see a lonely cottage with a pretty,
well-kept garden, surrounded by currant-bushes, and adorned with
mignonette and pinks, and a few roses amidst its chiccory and spinach.
This is the last house on the road, which, from here on, makes one long
stretch downward to the highway that goes far out into the country,
parallel with the river Aar.

This long, unbroken descent forms, in winter, the most perfect
coasting-ground imaginable; for once you are past the steep bit by the
colonel's house, you may go on without interruption quite down to the
road by the river; that is, always supposing that you make a fair start
at the beginning.

But they did not succeed in demonstrating the presence of starch, cellulose,
or chlorophyl. The last of this long series of researches is that of
Hamann (1881), who investigates the similar structures which occur in the
oral region of the Rhizostome jelly-fishes. While agreeing with
Cienkowski as to the parasitic nature of the yellow cells of
Radiolarians, he holds strongly that those of anemones and jelly-fishes
are unicellular glands.

In the hope of clearing up these contradictions, I returned to
Naples in October last, and first convinced myself of the accuracy
of the observation of Cienkowski and Brandt as to the survival of
the yellow cells in the bodies of dead Radiolarians, and their
assumption of the encysted and the amoeboid states.

Their mode of division, too, is thoroughly algoid. One finds,
not unfrequently, groups of three and four closely resembling _Protococcus_.
Starch is invariably present; the wall is true plant-cellulose, yielding
a magnificent blue with iodine and sulphuric acid, and the yellow
coloring matter is identical with that of diatoms, and yields the
same greenish residue after treatment with alcohol.

So, too, in Velella, in sea-anemones, and in medusæ; in all cases the
protoplasm and nucleus, the cellulose, starch, and chlorophyl, can be
made out in the most perfectly distinct way. The failure of
former observers with these reactions, in which I at first also
shared, has been simply due to neglect of the ordinary botanical
precautions.
Such reactions will not succeed until the animal tissue has been
treated with alcohol and macerated for some hours in a weak solution
of caustic potash.

Then, after neutralizing the alkali by means of dilute acetic acid, and
adding a weak solution of iodine, followed by strong sulphuric acid, the
presence of starch and cellulose can be successively demonstrated. Thus,
then, the chemical composition, as well as the structure and mode of
division of these yellow cells, are those of unicellular algæ, and I
accordingly propose the generic name of _Philozoon_, and distinguish
four species, differing slightly in size, color, mode of division,
behavior with reagents, etc., for which the name of _P. radiolarum, P.
siphonophorum, P. actiniarum_, and _P.
medusarum_, according to their habitat, may be conveniently adopted.
It now remains to inquire what is their mode of life, and what their
function.

I next exposed a quantity of Radiolarians (chiefly _Collozoum_) to
sunshine, and was delighted to find them soon studded with tiny
gas-bubbles. Though it was not possible to obtain enough for a quantitative
analysis, I was able to satisfy myself that the gas was not absorbed
by caustic potash, but was partly taken up by pyrogallic acid, that is
to say, that little or no carbonic acid was present, but that a fair
amount of oxygen was present, diluted of course by nitrogen.
The exposure of a shoal of the beautiful blue pelagic Siphonophore,
_Velella_, for a few hours, enabled me to collect a large quantity
of gas, which yielded from 24 to 25 per cent. of oxygen, that
subsequently squeezed out from the interior of the chambered
cartilaginous float, giving only 5 per cent.

But the most startling result was obtained by the exposure of the
common _Anthea cereus_, which yielded great quantities of gas
containing on an average from 32 to 38 per cent. of oxygen.

At first sight it might seem impossible to reconcile this copious evolution
of oxygen with the completely negative results obtained from the same
animal by so careful an experimenter as Krukenberg, yet the
difficulty is more apparent than real.

After considerable difficulty I was able to obtain a large and
beautiful specimen of _Anthea cereus_, var. _smaragdina_, which is
a far more beautiful green than that with which I had been before
operating--the dingy brownish-olive variety, _plumosa_. The former
owes its color to a green pigment diffused chiefly through the
ectoderm, but has comparatively few algæ in its endoderm; while in
the latter the pigment is present in much smaller quantity; but the
endoderm cells are crowded by algæ.

An ordinary specimen of _plumosa_ was also taken, and the two were
placed in similar vessels side by side, and exposed to full sunshine;
by afternoon the specimen of _plumosa_ had yielded gas enough for
an analysis, while the larger and finer _smaragdina_ had scarcely
produced a bubble.

Two varieties of _Ceriactis aurantiaca_, one with, the other without,
yellow cells, were next exposed, with a precisely similar result.
The complete dependence of the evolution of oxygen upon the presence
of algæ, and its complete independence of the pigment proper to the
animal, were still further demonstrated by exposing as many as possible
of those anemones known to contain yellow cells (_Aiptasia
chamæleon, Helianthus troglodytes_, etc.) side by side with a large
number of forms from which these are absent (_Actinia mesembryanthemum,
Sagastia parasitica, Cerianthus_, etc.).

The former never failed to yield abundant gas rich in oxygen, while
in the latter series not a single bubble ever appeared.

Thus, then, the coloring matter described as chlorophyl by Lankester
has really been mainly derived from that of the endodermal algæ of
the variety _plumosa_, which predominates at Naples; while the
anthea-green of Krukenberg must mainly consist of the green pigment
of the ectoderm, since the Trieste variety evidently does not contain
algæ in any great quantity.

But since the Naples variety contains a certain amount of ordinary green
pigment, and since the Trieste variety is tolerably sure to contain
some algæ, both spectroscopists have been operating on a mixture
of two wholly distinct pigments--diatom-yellow and anthea-green.

But what is the physiological relationship of the plants and animal
thus so curiously and intimately associated? Every one knows that all
the colorless cells of a plant share the starch formed by the green
cells; and it seems impossible to doubt that the endoderm cell or
the Radiolarian, which actually incloses the vegetable cell, must
similarly profit by its labors.

In other words, when the vegetable cell dissolves its own starch, some
must needs pass out by osmose into the surrounding animal cell; nor
must it be forgotten that the latter possesses abundance of amylolytic
ferment. Then, too, the _Philozoon_ is subservient in another way to
the nutritive function of the animal, for after its short life it dies
and is digested; the yellow bodies supposed by various observers to be
developing cells being nothing but dead algæ
in progress of solution and disappearance.

Again, the animal cell is constantly producing carbonic acid and
nitrogenous waste, but these are the first necessities of life to our
alga, which removes them, so performing an intracellular renal function,
and of course reaping an abundant reward, as its rapid rate of multiplication
shows.

Nor do the services of the _Philozoon_ end here; for during sunlight it
is constantly evolving nascent oxygen directly into the surrounding animal
protoplasm, and thus we have actually foreign chlorophyl performing the
respiratory function of native hæmoglobin! And the resemblance
becomes closer when we bear in mind that hæmoglobin sometimes lies as a
stationary deposit in certain tissues, like the tongue muscles of
certain mollusks, or the nerve cord of _Aphrodite_ and Nemerteans.

The importance of this respiratory function is best seen by
comparing as specimens the common red and white Gorgonia, which are
usually considered as being mere varieties of the same species, _G.
verrucosa_.

The red variety is absolutely free from _Philozoon_, which could
not exist in such deeply colored light, while the white variety,
which I am inclined to think is usually the larger and better grown
of the two, is perfectly crammed.

Just as with the anemones above referred to, the red variety evolves
no oxygen in sunlight, while the white yields an abundance, and we
have thus two widely contrasted _physiological varieties_, as I may
call them, without the least morphological difference.

The white specimen, placed in spirit, yields a strong solution of chlorophyl;
the red, again, yields a red solution, which was at once recognized
as being tetronerythrin by my friend M. Merejkowsky, who was at the
same time investigating the distribution and properties of that remarkable
pigment, so widely distributed in the animal kingdom.
This substance, which was first discovered in the red spots which decorate
the heads of certain birds, has recently been shown by Krukenberg to
be one of the most important of the coloring matter of sponges, while
Merejkowsky now finds it in fishes and in almost all classes of
invertebrate animals. It has been strongly suspected to be an oxygen-carrying
pigment, an idea to which the present observation seems to me to yield
considerable support. It is moreover readily bleached by light, another
analogy to chlorophyl, as we know from Pringsheim's researches.

When one exposes an aquarium full of _Anthea_ to sunlight, the
creatures, hitherto almost motionless, begin to wave their arms,
as if pleasantly stimulated by the oxygen which is being developed
in their tissues.

Specimens which I kept exposed to direct sunshine for days together in
a shallow vessel placed on a white slab, soon acquired a dark,
unhealthy hue, as if being oxygenated too rapidly, although I protected
them from any undue rise of temperature by keeping up a flow of cold
water. So, too, I found that Radiolarians were killed by a day's exposure
to sunshine, even in cool water, and it is to the need for escaping
this too rapid oxidation that I ascribe their remarkable habit
of leaving the surface and sinking into deep water early in the day.

It is easy, too, to obtain direct proof of this absorption of a great
part of the evolved oxygen by the animal tissues through which it has
to pass. The gas evolved by a green alga (_Ulva_) in sunlight
may contain as much as 70 per cent. of oxygen, that evolved by brown
algae (_Haliseris_) 45 per cent., that from diatoms about 42 per
cent.; that, however, obtained from the animals containing _Philozoon_
yielded a very much lower percentage of oxygen, e.g. _Velella_ 24 per
cent., white _Gorgonia_ 24 per cent., _Ceriactis_ 21 per cent.,
while Anthea, which contains most algæ, gave from 32 to 38 per cent.

This difference is naturally to be accounted for by the avidity for
oxygen of the animal cells.

Thus, then, for a vegetable cell no more ideal existence can be imagined
than that within the body of an animal cell of sufficient active vitality
to manure it with carbonic acid and nitrogen waste, yet of sufficient
transparency to allow the free entrance of the necessary light. And
conversely, for an animal cell there can be no more ideal existence than
to contain a vegetable cell, constantly removing its waste products,
supplying it with oxygen and starch, and being digestible after death.
For our present knowledge of the power of intracellular digestion
possessed by the endoderm cells of the lower invertebrates removes all
difficulties both as to the mode of entrance of the algæ, and its fate
when dead. In short, we have here the relation of the animal and the
vegetable world reduced to the simplest and closest conceivable
form.

It must be by this time sufficiently obvious that this remarkable association
of plant and animal is by no means to be termed a case of parasitism.

If so, the animals so infested would be weakened, whereas their
exceptional success in the struggle for existence is evident.
_Anthea cereus_, which contains most algæ, probably far outnumbers
all the other species of sea-anemones put together, and the
Radiolarians which contain yellow cells are far more abundant than
those which are destitute of them.

So, too, the young gonophores of Velella, which bud off from the parent
colony and start in life with a provision of _Philozoon_ (far better
than a yolk-sac) survive a fortnight or more in a small bottle--far longer
than the other small pelagic animals. Such instances, which might easily
be multiplied, show that the association is beneficial to the
animals concerned.

The nearest analogue to this remarkable partnership is to be found
in the vegetable kingdom, where, as the researches of Schwendener,
Bornet, and Stahl have shown, we have certain algæ and fungi
associating themselves into the colonies we are accustomed to call
lichens, so that we may not unfairly call our agricultural Radiolarians
and anemones _animal lichens_.

And if there be any parasitism in the matter, it is by no means of the
alga upon the animal, but of the animal, like the fungus, upon the alga.
Such an association is far more complex than that of the fungus
and alga in the lichen, and indeed stands unique in physiology as
the highest development, not of parasitism, but of the reciprocity
between the animal and vegetable kingdoms.

Thus, then, the list of supposed chlorophyl containing animals with which
we started, breaks up into three categories; first those which do not
contain chlorophyl at all, but green pigments of unknown function
(_Bonelia<, Idotea_, etc.); secondly, those vegetating by their own
intrinsic chlorophyl (_Convoluta_, _Hydra_, _Spongilia_); thirdly,
those vegetating by proxy, if one may so speak, rearing copious
algae in their own tissues, and profiting in every way by the vital
activities of these.

PATRICK GEDDES.

* * * * *

COMPRESSED OIL GAS FOR LIGHTING CARS, STEAMBOATS, AND BUOYS.

We give in the accompanying figures the arrangement of the different
apparatus necessary for the manufacture and compression of
illuminating gas on the system of Mr.

Pintsch, as well as the arrangements adopted by the inventor for the
lighting of railway cars and buoys.

This system has been adopted to some extent in both Germany and England,
and is also being introduced into France.

[Illustration: WORKS FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF OIL GAS.--ELEVATION AND
PLAN.]
The Pintsch gas is prepared by the distillation of heavy oils in a
furnace composed of two superposed retorts. The oil to be volatilized
is contained in a vertical reservoir B, which carries a bent pipe
that enters the upper retort, A.

The flow of the oil is regulated in this conduit by means of a micrometer
screw which permits of varying the supply according to the temperature
of the retorts. In order to facilitate the vaporization, the flow of oil
starts from a cast-iron trough, C, and from thence spreads in a thin
and uniform layer in the retort.

The residua of distillation remain almost entirely in the reservoir, O,
from whence they are easily removed. The vapor from the oil which is
disengaged in the vessel, A, goes to the lower retort, D, in which
the transformation of the matter is thoroughly completed.

On leaving the latter, the gas enters the drum, E, at the lower part
of the furnace. To prevent the choking up of the pipe, R, the latter is
provided with a joint permitting of dilatation.
If my wife thinks she wants any utensil
for household use, even if she does not know how it should look, nor
what use to put it too, Andrew the carpenter invents it, and makes it on
the spot. "Mine heaven, Mr. Oldenbuck! what usage is this to your old
friend, when I tell you so plain as I can speak, dat if you go now, you
will not get so much treasure as one poor shabby sixpence?"
"I will try the experiment, however, and you shall be dealt with according
to its success,--always with Sir Arthur's permission."
Sir Arthur, during this investigation, had looked extremely embarrassed,
and, to use a vulgar but expressive phrase, chop-fallen.

Oldbuck's obstinate disbelief led him strongly to suspect the imposture
of Dousterswivel, and the adept's mode of keeping his ground was less
resolute than he had expected.

Yet he did not entirely give him up.

"Mr. Oldbuck," said the Baronet, "you do Mr. Dousterswivel less
than justice.

He has undertaken to make this discovery by the use of his art,
and by applying characters descriptive of the Intelligences presiding
over the planetary hour in which the experiment is to be made; and
you require him to proceed, under pain of punishment, without
allowing him the use of any of the preliminaries which he considers
as the means of procuring success."

"I did not say that exactly--I only required him to be present when we
make the search, and not to leave us during the interval.

I fear he may have some intelligence with the Intelligences you talk
of, and that whatever may be now hidden at Saint Ruth may disappear
before we get there."
"Well, gentlemens," said Dousterswivel, sullenly, "I will make no objections
to go along with you but I tell you beforehand, you shall not find so
much of anything as shall be worth your going twenty yard from your
own gate."

"We will put that to a fair trial," said the Antiquary; and the Baronet's
equipage being ordered, Miss Wardour received an intimation from
her father, that she was to remain at Monkbarns until his return
from an airing.

My wife belongs first
of all to the carpenter Andrew, then to the children, and only to her
husband when there is nothing else for her to do."

"And now you see, Max," said his sister, laughing, "that, although my
husband speaks scornfully of Andrew the carpenter, he does assign him a
very high rank after all. Now acknowledge that, won't you? He has just
given me a message for you. He has brought his yearly savings with him
to-day, and begs for your assistance."

"That is true," said the colonel. "A more orderly, industrious, reliable
man I do not know. I would trust my wife, my children, my goods and
chattels to him rather than to any one else. He is the most honorable,
trustworthy man in this parish, or in any other, I do believe."

"Now you see, Max," said his sister, laughing, "I could not say more
than that." It isn't any of King Kong's little brothers. They over
rate the stuff. It isn't the way you've been riding me either.

Never mind what I'm carrying. Whatever it is--and believe me, it _is_--I
have to get rid of it.

Let me tell it, for God's sake.

Then for Security's sake? I thought you would let me tell it, General.

I've been coming in here and giving you pieces of it for months but
now I want to let you be drenched in the whole thing. You're going to
take it all.

There were the two of them, the two lonely men, and I found them
for you.

You remember the way I found them for you.

The intercom on my blond desk made an electronic noise at me and the words
I had been arranging in my mind for the morning letters splattered
into alphabet soup like a printer dropping a prepared slug of
type.

I made the proper motion to still the sound.

"Yes," I grunted.

My secretary cleared her throat on my time.

"Dr. Thorn," she said, "there's a Mr. Madison here to see you. He lays
claim to be from the Star Project."
He could come in and file his claim, I told the girl.

I rummaged in the wastebasket and uncrumpled the morning's facsimile
newspaper. It was full of material about the Star Project.

We were building Man's first interstellar spaceship.

* * * * *
A surprising number of people considered it important. Flipping
from the rear to page one, Wild Bill Star in the comics who had been
blasting all the way to forty-first sub-space universe for decades
was harking back to the good old days of Man's first star flight (which
he had made himself through the magic of time travel), the editor was
calling the man to make the jaunt the Lindbergh of Space, and the staff
photographer displayed a still of a Space Force pilot in pressure
suit up front with his face blotted out by an air-brushed interrogation
mark.

Who was going to be the Lindbergh of Space?

We had used up the Columbus of Space, the Magellan of Space, the
Van Reck of Space. Now it was time for the Lone Eagle, one man who
would wait out the light years to Alpha Centauri.

I remembered the first Lindbergh.

I rode a bus fifty miles to see him at an Air Force Day celebration
when I was a dewy-eared kid.

It's funny how kids still worship heroes who did everything before
they were even born. Uncle Max had told me about standing outside the
hospital with a bunch of boys his own age the evening Babe Ruth died
of cancer. Lindbergh seemed like an old man to me when I finally saw
him, but still active. Nobody had forgotten him. When his speech was
over I cheered him with the rest just as if I knew what he had been
talking about.

But I probably knew more about what he meant then as a boy than I did
feeling the reality of the newspaper in my hands. Grown-up, I
could only smile at myself for wanting to go to the stars
myself.

Madison rapped on my office door and breezed in efficiently.

I've always thought Madison was a rather irritating man. Likable but
irritating.

He's too good looking in an unassuming masculine way to dress so
neatly--it makes him look like a mannequin. That polite way of his
of using small words slowly and distinctly proves that he loves his
fellow man--even if his fellow always does have less brains or authority
than Madison himself. That belief would be forgivable in him if it wasn't
so often true.

Madison folded himself into the canary yellow client's chair at my
direction, and took a leather-bound pocket secretary from inside
his almost-too-snug jacket.

"Dr. Thorn," he said expansively, "we need you to help us locate an atavism."

I flicked professional smile No. Three at him lightly.

"I'm a historical psychologist," I told him. "That sounds in my line.
Which of your ancestors are you interested in having me analyze?"
"I used the word 'atavism' to mean a reversion to the primitive."
I made a pencil mark on my desk pad. I could make notes as well as he
could read them.

"Yes, I see," I murmured. "We don't use the term that way. Perhaps you
don't understand my work. It's been an honest way to make a living for
a few generations but it's so specialized it might sound foolish
to someone outside the psychological industry.

I psychoanalyze historical figures for history books (of course), and
scholars, interested descendants, what all, and that's _all_ I do."

"All you _have_ done," Madison admitted, "but your government is
certain that you can do this new work for them--in fact, that you
are one of the few men prepared to locate this esoteric--that is,
this odd aberration since I understand you often have to deal with
it in analyzing the past.

Doctor, we want you to find us a lonely man."
I laid my chrome yellow pencil down carefully beside the cream-colored
pad.

"History is full of loneliness--most of the so-called great men were
rather neurotic--but I thought, Madison, that introspection was
pretty much of a thing of the, well, past."

The government representative inhaled deeply and steepled his
manicured fingers.

"Our system of childhood psycho-conditioning succeeds in burying loneliness
in the subconscious so completely that even the records can't reveal if
it was ever present."
* * * * *
I cleared my throat in order to stall, to think.

"I'm not acquainted with _contemporary_ psychology, Madison. This comes
as news to me.

You mean people aren't really well-adjusted today, that they have
just been conditioned to _act_ as if they were?"
He nodded. "Yes, that's it. It's ironic. Now we need a lonely man and
we can't find him."
"To pilot the interstellar spaceship?"

"For the _Evening Star_, yes," Madison agreed.

I picked up my pencil and held it between my two index fingers. I
couldn't think of a damned thing to say.

"The whole problem," Madison was saying, "goes back to the early
days of space travel.

Men were confined in a small area facing infinite space for measureless
periods in freefall. Men cracked--and ships, they cracked up.
But as space travel advanced ships got larger, carried more people,
more ties and reminders of human civilization.

Pilots became more _normal_."
I made myself look up at the earnest young man.

"But now," I said, "now you want me to find you an abnormal pilot who is
used to being alone, who can stand it, maybe even like it?"
"Right."
I constructed a genuine smile for him for the first time.

"Madison, do you really think _I_ can find your man when evidently all the
government agencies have failed?"
The government representative pocketed his notebook deftly and then spread
his hands clumsily for an instant.

"At least, Doctor," he said, "you may _know_ it if you do find him."

* * * * *
It was a lonely job to find a lonely man, General, and maybe it was a
crooked job to walk a crooked mile to find a crooked man.

I had to do it alone.

No one else had enough experience in primitive psychology to recognize
the phenomenon of loneliness, even as Madison had said.

The working conditions suited me. I had to think by myself but I had
a comfortable staff to carry out my ideas. I liked my new office and the
executive apartment the government supplied me. I had authority and
respect and I had security. The government assured me they would find
further use for my services after I found them their man. I knew this
was to keep me from dragging my tracks. But nevertheless I got right
down to work.

I found Gordon Meyverik exactly five weeks from the day Madison first
visited me in my old office.

"Of course, I planned the whole thing, Dr. Thorn," Gordon said crisply.

I knew what he meant although I hadn't guessed it before. He could tell
it to me himself, I decided.

"Doesn't seem much to brag about," I said. "Anybody who can make up a
grocery list should be able to figure out how to isolate himself on
Seal Island."
He sat forward, a lean Viking with a hot Latin glance, very confident
of himself.

"I reckoned on you locating me, on you hustling me back to pilot the
_Evening Star_.

That's why I holed in there."
"I can't accept your story," I lied cheerfully. "Nobody is going to maroon
himself on an island for three years because of a wild possibility
like that."
Meyverik smiled and his sureness swelled out until it almost jabbed
me in the stomach.

"I took a broad gamble," he said, "but it hit the wire, didn't it?"

I didn't reply, but he had his answer.

Instead I scanned the report Madison had given me from Intelligence
concerning the man's unorthodox behavior.

Meyverik had quit his post-graduate studies and passed by the secured job
that had been waiting for him eighteen months in a genial government
office to barricade himself in an old shelter on Seal Island. It was
hard to know what to make of it. He had brought impressive stores of
food with him, books, sound and vision tapes but not telephone or television.
For the next three years he had had no contact with humanity at all.

  And he said he had planned
    it all.
  
    "Sure," he drawled.

  "I knew the government was
    looking for somebody to steer
  the interstellar ship that's
    been gossip for decades.

That job," he said distinctly, "is one I would give a lot to settle
into."
I looked at him across my unlittered brand new desk and accepted his
irritating blond masculinity, disliked him, admired him, and continued
to examine him to decide on my _final_ evaluation.

"You've given three years already," I said, examining the
sheets of the report with which I was thoroughly familiar.

He twitched. He didn't like that, not spending three years.

It was spendthrift, even if a good buy. He was planning on winding up
somewhere important and to do it he had to invest his years properly.

"You are trying to make me believe you deliberately extrapolated
the government's need for a man who could stand being alone for long
periods, and then tried to phoney up references for the work by staying
on that island?"

"I don't like that word 'phoney'," Meyverik growled.

"No? You name your word for it."

Meyverik unhinged to his full height.

"It was _proof_," he said. "A test."
"A man can't test himself."
"A lot you know," the big blond snorted.

"I _know_," I told him drily. "A man who isn't a hopeless maniac
depressive can't consciously create a test for himself that he knows he
will fail. You proved you could stay alone on an island, buster. You
didn't prove you could stay alone in a spaceship out in the middle of
infinity for three years. Why didn't you rent a conventional rocket and
try looking at some of our local space? It all looks much the same."

Meyverik sat down.

"I don't know why I didn't do that," he whispered

.

* * * * *
Probably for the first time since he had got clever enough to beat
up his big brother Meyverik was doubting himself, just a little,
for just a time.

I don't know whether it was good or bad for him--contemporary
psychology isn't in my line--but I knew I couldn't trust a cocky
kid.

But I had to find out if he could still hit the target uncocked.

* * * * *
Stan Johnson was our second lonely man, remember, General?

He was stubborn.

I questioned him for a half hour the first day, two hours the second
and on the third I turned him over to Madison.

Then as I was having my lunch I suddenly thought of something and made
steps back to my office.

I got there just in time to grab Madison's bony wrist.

The thing in his fist was silver and sharp, a hypodermic
needle.
Johnson's forearm was tanned below the torn pastel sleeve. Two sad-faced
young men were holding him politely by the shoulders in the canvas chair.
Johnson met my glance expressionlessly.

I tugged on Madison's arm sharply.

"What's in that damned sticker?"
"Polypenthium." Madison's face was as blank as Johnson's--only his
body seemed at once tired and taut.

"What's it for?" I rasped.

"You're the psychologist," he said sharply.

I met his eyes and held on but it was impossible to stare him
down.

"I don't know about physical methods, I told you. I've been dealing with
people in books, films, tapes all my life, not living men up till now,
can't you absorb that?"

"Apparently I've had more experience with these things than you
then, Doctor.

Shall I proceed?"

"You shall not," I cried omnisciently. "I know enough to understand
we can't get the results the government wants by drugs. You going to put
that away?"
Madison nodded once.

"All right," he said.

I unshackled my fingers and he put the shiny needle away in its case,
in his suitcoat pocket.

"You understand, Thorn," he said, "that the general won't like this."

I turned around and looked at him.

"Did he order you to drug Johnson?"
The government agent shook his head.

"I didn't think so." I was beginning to understand government operations.
"He only wanted it done. Get out."
Madison and his assistants marched out in orthodox Euclidian triangle
formation.

The doors hissed shut.

"You know what?" The words jerked out from Johnson. "I think the bunch
of you are crazy. _Crazy._"
I decided to treat him like a client. Maybe that was the way contemporary
psychologists handled their men.

* * * * *
I sat on the edge of the desk jauntily, confidently, and tried to
let the domino mask up a father image.

"You may as well get it straight, Stan. The government needs you and it's
pointless for you to say that need is unconstitutional or anything.

Bring it up and it won't be long. When survival is outside the rules,
the rules change."
The eyes of Johnson were strikingly like Meyverik's, dark and unsettled.

Only this boy, younger, smaller than the Nordic, had an appropriate skin
tone, stained by the tropical sun somewhere in his ancestral past. He
dropped his gaze, expelled his breath mightily and pounded one
angular knee with a half-closed fist.

"I'm not complaining about conscription without representation,
Doctor, but I can't make any sense out of these fool questions you
keep firing at me.

What in blazes are you trying to get at?

What kind of reason are you after for my staying by myself? I just do
it because I _like_ it that way."
With a galvanic jolt, I realized he was telling the painfully simple
truth.

I groaned at the realization.

Meyverik had convinced all of us that in our well-adjusted or at any
rate well-conditioned world somebody had to have some purposeful _reason_
in loneliness, solitude, so on that one instance our thinking had
already been patterned, discarding all the other evidence of
generations that the lonely man was only a personality type, like
Johnson.

I felt I had achieved at least the quantum state of a fool.

Johnson silently studied the half-cupped hands laying in his lap.

"The hunting lodge in the Andes seemed as good a place as any to
live after mother and father were killed.

You might think it was lonesome at night in the mountains, but it isn't
at all. You aren't alone when you can watch the burning worlds shadow
the bow of God...."
I cleared my throat. The poor kid sounded like he would begin spouting
something akin to poetry next.
"So I believe you," I told him. "That doesn't finish it. We have
to convince _them_. I don't like this, but the simplest way would
be to volunteer for their hibitor injection. I've found out Madison
and his crowd don't believe men awake, only assorted dopes."
Johnson deflated his area of the room with his breath intake.
"Okay," he said at last. "I guess so." 
* * * * *
When Johnson gave us what we needed to clear the problem, it didn't
take me long to finish processing the rest of the handful of possible
loners we had located. Unlike Johnson, all the rest had _reasons_
for their self-imposed loneliness. Unlike Meyverik none of their
reasons were associated with the interstellar flight. They instead
involved literary research, swindles, isolated paranoid insanity
and other things in which the government had no interest.
Suddenly I found my job was done and that we had located only the
two of them.
Madison read my final report braced on the edge of my desk, his
hand comradely on my shoulder.
"Good job, Doc," he vouched replacing the papers on my blotter with
a final rustle. "Now I've got news for you. The government wants
you to _test_ these boys for us now that you've found 'em for us."

I closed my jaw. "That's completely out of line--_my_ line. I know
you need a contemporary man for that job."
Madison punched me on the bicep, fast enough to hurt.
"Doc, after this project you know more about contemp' stuff than
any professor who got his degree studying the textbooks _you_ wrote."

It was impossible to dislike Madison except for practiced periods--that
was probably one reason he had his job.
"All right," I growled. "Get your dirty pants off my clean desk and
I'll get out the bottle. We'll--celebrate, huh?"
But you know how I felt, General? You remember how I tried to get
out of it. I felt like I had led in the lambs and now I had to help
shear them.
As a part-time historian I can tell you there's a word for that--Judas
goat. Give or take a word.

* * * * *
"It isn't the real thing, Doc," Madison spelled out for me, wearing
a lemon twist of smile.
I looked at the twin banks of gauge-facings and circuit housings
in which centered TV screens picturing either Meyverik or Johnson.
Red and sea-green lights chased each other around the control boards,
died, were born again. On the screens the three color negatives
mixed to purple, shifted through a series of wrong combinations and
settled to normal as the stereo-oscillation echoed, convexed insanely,
and deepened to hold.
Video reception is lousy from five hundred thousand miles out.
I was too eye-heavy to be surprised.
"Don't tell me this is _The Strange Flight of Richard Clayton_ all
over again?"
Madison clapped me on the shoulder and breathed mint at me, eyes
on twittering round faces.
"Who wrote that? Poe? No, no mock-up to fake space conditions for
them but calculate the cost of the _real_ interstellar ship. We
couldn't trust either of them with it yet. You didn't really think
we could afford _two_ ships. Why do you think we haven't told one
man about his opposite in a second ship? No safety margin allowable
in our appropriation, Doc. Or so they tell me. There's enough fuel
and food to take Johnson and Meyverik a long way but not the
distance." 
He shook his lean head almost wistfully.
"Damn it, Madison, do you mean I've been beating my lobes out for
weeks for _nothing_? I tested them. I checked them out. Either was
capable of making the flight successfully--for their own different
reasons."
Madison took his hand off my shoulder and made a fist of it.
"I'm not questioning your decision! Will you ram that through your
obscene skull, Thorn!" 
"Who is?" I whispered.
"Not me. Not I, not I." 
"The general," I announced.
"Just not me." Was he actually trembling? But it wasn't concern
about what I thought of him. Somebody closer, maybe. Things were
building up for him.
He jammed his nose almost up against the glass dial surfaces, swaying
gently in his cups, staring slightly cross-eyed at the arrowed
numbers.
"You'll continue your tests from here," Madison said. "Tell them
they are going to die." 
My face was at once cool and damp.
"That's a tough examination," I gasped.
"A lie," Madison told me. "The boys at Psychicentre worked out the
problems."
"You told me you wanted me!" I screamed at him furiously.
"Control your passionate, dainty voice. You worked well with those
two.
The experts could work through you better."
"Right through me, like a razor blade through margarine," I said.
"It's not fair."
"No, it's science. Psychology as a science, not an art. Don't damn
me--I'm not the inventor," Madison continued.
"I'm one of them," I murmured, "but I'd just as rather you didn't
blame me either."
Madison punched the button for me with a palsied, manicured
thumb.
"Guess what, Meyverik?" I said viciously. "You're going to die."

"What the blazes are you babbling about?" the blond doll snapped
at me from the box of the video screen.

* * * * *
I scanned the typed, stiff-backed Idiot Prompters Madison shoved
into my fist. "It's--true. You can't get out alive."
"What's happened?" His face perfectly blank.
"Nothing out of the ordinary," I said. "They have just informed me
it was planned this way. It wasn't possible to build a round-trip
rocket yet. You need a lot of fuel to make course adjustments for
the curvature of space, so forth. The radio will send back your
reports on the Alpha Centaurian planets. Undoubtedly by all rules
of probability they won't support life without a mass of equipment."Now I remember something else, mother," cried Wiseli, quite excitedly.
"Now I know for sure who once placed a big pot of honey in the
kitchen,--you remember how much you liked that,--and then the
apple-cakes a day or two ago,--do not you remember? You wished to send
your thanks by Trine when she brought you something from the colonel's
kitchen, and she said that she knew nothing at all about them. Now I am
sure that Andrew the carpenter brought them, and secretly placed them in
the kitchen for you."

"Now I believe so, also," said her mother, and softly wiped her eyes.

"There is nothing sad about it, mother," said Wiseli, rather shocked to
see how often her mother kept wiping her eyes.

"You must thank him for me, Wiseli: I cannot. Tell him that I send him
my thanks for all the goodness he has shown me,--he has always been kind
to me. Come, sit down here by me a little," said she, softly. "Give me
some more of the syrup, and then come and repeat the verse that I taught
you the other day."

Wiseli brought more water, and mixed it with the syrup again, and her
mother drank of it eagerly; then she laid her head wearily upon the low
window-sill, and beckoned her little daughter to come to her side. It
seemed to the child that her mother could not be comfortable, and she
fetched a pillow from the bed, and placed it carefully under her
mother's head. Then she sat down close to her side on a footstool, and
held her mother's hand in her own, and complied with her request to
repeat the verses, thus,--

  "'To God you must confide
    Your sorrow and your pain;
  He will true care provide,
    And show you heaven again.

  "'For clouds and air and wind
    He points the path and way;
  Your road He'll also find,
    Nor let your footsteps stray.'"

As Wiseli finished, she observed that her mother was almost asleep; but
she heard her say, softly, "Think of this, my Wiseli; and when you do
not know which way to turn, and every thing seems difficult and
perplexing, then say to yourself these words,--

  "'Your road He'll also find,
  Nor let your footsteps stray.'"

Now the weary head sank down to rest, and little Wiseli would not awaken
her mother by a movement, but nestled up to her quietly, and slept also.
And the feeble light of the little lamp burned dimly in the quiet
room,--more and more feebly it burned, until it slowly flickered and
went out, and the cottage stood a dark object in the bright moonlight.

The next morning the neighbor from the nearest house stopped, as usual,
on her way to the fountain, to look through the window of the cottage to
see if all was well within. She saw that the sick woman was sleeping on
the pillow, with her head against the window-sill, and that Wiseli stood
weeping by her side. This seemed so strange, that she put her head a
little way into the room, and asked, "What is the matter, Wiseli? Is
your mother worse?" The child sobbed dreadfully, and could scarcely say,
"I do not know what ails my mother."

The poor child had a strong suspicion of what it all meant, but she
could not realize that her mother was lost to her. These were part of
the thirty thousand mentioned above, ver. 3.

8:13. But all the rest of the army went in battle array on the north side,
so that the last of that multitude reached to the west side of the
city. So Josue went that night, and stood in the midst of the
valley.

8:14. And when the king of Hai saw this, he made haste in the morning,
and went out with all the army of the city, and set it in battle array,
toward the desert, not knowing that there lay an ambush behind his
back.

8:15. But Josue, and all Israel gave back, making as if they were
afraid, and fleeing by the way of the wilderness.

8:16. But they shouting together, and encouraging one another, pursued
them. And when they were come from the city,
8:17. And not one remained in the city of Hai and of Bethel, that did
not pursue after Israel, leaving the towns open as they had rushed out,

8:18. The Lord said to Josue: Lift up the shield that is in thy hand,
towards the city of Hai, for I will deliver it to thee.

8:19. And when he had lifted up his shield towards the city, the ambush,
that lay hid, rose up immediately: and going to the city, took it,
and set it on fire.

8:20. And the men of the city, that pursued after Josue, looking
back, and seeing the smoke of the city rise up to heaven, had no more
power to flee this way or that way: especially as they that had
counterfeited flight, and were going toward the wilderness, turned back
most valiantly against them that pursued.

8:21. So Josue, and all Israel, seeing that the city was taken, and that
the smoke of the city rose up, returned, and slew the men of Hai.

8:22.

And they also that had taken and set the city on fire, issuing out of the
city to meet their own men, began to cut off the enemies who were
surrounded by them.

So that the enemies being cut off on both sides, not one of so great
a multitude was saved.

8:23. And they took the king of the city of Hai alive and brought
him to Josue.

8:24.

So all being slain that had pursued after Israel, in his flight to
the wilderness, and falling by the sword in the same place, the
children of Israel returned and laid waste the city.

8:25.

And the number of them that fell that day, both of men and women, was
twelve thousand persons, all of the city of Hai.

8:26. But Josue drew not back his hand, which he had stretched out on
high, holding the shield, till all the inhabitants of Hai were slain.

8:27. And the children of Israel divided among them, the cattle and the
prey of the city, as the Lord had commanded Josue.

8:28.

And he burnt the city, and made it a heap forever:

8:29.

And he hung the king thereof on a gibbet, until the evening and
the going down of the sun.

Then Josue commanded, and they took down his carcass from the gibbet:
and threw it in the very entrance of the city, heaping upon it a
great heap of stones, which remaineth until this present day.

8:30.

Then Josue built an altar to the Lord, the God of Israel, in Mount Hebal,

8:31. As Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded the children
of Israel, and it is written in the book of the law of Moses: an altar
of unhewn stones, which iron had not touched: and he offered upon it
holocausts to the Lord, and immolated victims of peace offerings.

8:32. And he wrote upon stones, the Deuteronomy of the law of Moses, which
he had ordered before the children of Israel.

8:33. And all the people, and the ancients, and the princes, and judges,
stood on both sides of the ark, before the priests that carried
the ark of the covenant of the Lord, both the stranger and he that
was born among them, half of them by Mount Garizim, and half by
Mount Hebal, as Moses the servant of the Lord, had commanded.

And first he blessed the people of Israel.

8:34. After this, he read all the words of the blessing and the cursing,
and all things that were written in the book of the law.

8:35.

He left out nothing of those things which Moses had commanded, but
he repeated all before all the people of Israel, with the women and
children, and strangers, that dwelt among them.

Josue Chapter 9
Josue is deceived by the Gabaonites: who being detected are condemned
to be perpetual servants.

9:1.

Now when these things were heard of, all the kings beyond the Jordan,
that dwelt in the mountains, and in the plains, in the places near
the sea, and on the coasts of the great sea, they also that dwell
by Libanus, the Hethite, and the Amorrhite, the Chanaanite, the
Pherezite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite, 
9:2.

Gathered themselves together, to fight against Josue and Israel with one
mind, and one resolution.

9:3. But they that dwelt in Gabaon, hearing all that Josue had done to
Jericho and Hai:

9:4.

Cunningly devising took for themselves provisions, laying old sacks upon
their asses, and wine bottles rent and sewed up again,
9:5. And very old shoes, which for a show of age were clouted with patches,
and old garments upon them: the loaves also, which they carried for
provisions by the way, were hard, and broken into pieces:

9:6.

And they went to Josue, who then abode in the camp at Galgal, and said
to him, and to all Israel with him: We are come from a far country,
desiring to make peace with you.

And the children of Israel answered them, and said:

9:7. Perhaps you dwell in the land which falls to our lot; if so, we can
make no league with you.

9:8. But they said to Josue: We are thy servants. Josue said to them:
Who are you? and whence came you?

9:9. They answered: From a very far country thy servants are come in the
name of the Lord thy God. For we have heard the fame of his power, all
the things that he did in Egypt.

9:10. And to the two kings of the Amorrhites, that were beyond the Jordan,
Sehon, king of Hesebon, and Og, king of Basan, that was in Astaroth:

9:11. And our ancients, and all the inhabitants of our country, said to
us: Take with you victuals for a long way, and go meet them, and say:
We are your servants, make ye a league with us.

9:12. Behold, these loaves we took hot, when we set out from our houses
to come to you, now they are become dry, and broken in pieces by being
exceeding old.

9:13. These bottles of wine when we filled them were new, now they
are rent and burst.

These garments we have on, and the shoes we have on our feet, by reason
of the very long journey, are worn out, and almost consumed.

9:14. They took therefore of their victuals, and consulted not the mouth
of the Lord.

9:15. And Josue made peace with them, and entering into a league,
promised that they should not be slain: the princes also of the
multitude swore to them.

9:16.

Now three days after the league was made, they heard that they dwelt nigh,
and they should be among them.

9:17.

And the children of Israel removed the camp, and came into their cities
on the third day, the names of which are, Gabaon, and Caphira, and
Beroth, and Cariathiarim.

9:18.

And they slew them not, because the princes of the multitude had sworn in
the name of the Lord, the God of Israel. Then all the common people
murmured against the princes.

9:19.

And they answered them: We have sworn to them in the name of the
Lord, the God of Israel, and therefore we may not touch them.

9:20.

But this we will do to them: Let their lives be saved, lest the wrath of
the Lord be stirred up against us, if we should be forsworn:

9:21.

But so let them live, as to serve the whole multitude in hewing
wood, and bringing in water.

As they were speaking these things,
9;22. Josue called the Gabaonites, and said to them: Why would you impose
upon us, saying: We dwell very far off from you, whereas you are
in the midst of us?

9:23. Therefore you shall be under a curse, and your race shall always
be hewers of wood, and carriers of water, into the house of my
God.

9:24.

They answered: It was told us, thy servants, that the Lord thy God
had promised his servant Moses, to give you all the land, and to destroy
all the inhabitants thereof. Therefore we feared exceedingly and provided
for our lives, compelled by the dread we had of you, and we took this
counsel.

9:25. And now we are in thy hand: deal with us as it seemeth good and right
unto thee.

9:26. So Josue did as he had said, and delivered them from the hand of
the children of Israel, that they should not be slain.

9:27.

And he gave orders in that day, that they should be in the service of
all the people, and of the altar of the Lord, hewing wood, and
carrying water, until this present time, in the place which the Lord
hath chosen.

Josue Chapter 10
Five kings war against Gabaon. Josue defeateth them: many are slain
with hailstones. At the prayer of Josue the sun and moon stand
still the space of one day.

The five kings are hanged. Divers cities are taken.

10:1. When Adonisedec, king of Jerusalem, had heard these things, to
wit, that Josue had taken Hai, and had destroyed it, (for as he had
done to Jericho and the king thereof, so did he to Hai and its
king) and that the Gabaonites were gone over to Israel, and were
their confederates,
10:2. He was exceedingly afraid. For Gabaon was a great city, and
one of the royal cities, and greater than the town of Hai, and all
its fighting men were most valiant.

10:3. Therefore Adonisedec, king of Jerusalem, sent to Oham, king of
Hebron, and to Pharam, king of Jerimoth, and to Japhia, king of Lachis,
and to Dabir, king of Eglon, saying:

10:4. Come up to me, and bring help, that we may take Gabaon, because it
hath gone over to Josue, and to the children of Israel.

10:5. So the five kings of the Amorrhites being assembled together, went
up: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jerimoth,
the king of Lachis, the king of Eglon, they and their armies, and
camped about Gabaon, laying siege to it.

10:6.

But the inhabitants of the city of Gabaon, which was besieged, sent to
Josue, who then abode in the camp at Galgal, and said to him:
Withdraw not thy hands from helping thy servants: come up quickly, and
save us, and bring us succour: for all the kings of the Amorrhites, who
dwell in the mountains, are gathered together against us.

10:7. And Josue went up from Galgal, and all the army of the warriors
with him, most valiant men.

10:8. But the Lord said to Josue: Fear them not: for I have delivered
them into thy hands: none of them shall be able to stand against
thee.

10:9. So Josue going up from Galgal all the night, came upon them
suddenly.

10:10. And the Lord troubled them, at the sight of Israel: and he slew
them with a great slaughter, in Gabaon, and pursued them by the way
of the ascent to Bethoron, and cut them off all the way to Azeca
and Maceda.

10:11.

And when they were fleeing from the children of Israel, and were in the
descent of Bethoron, the Lord cast down upon them great stones from
heaven, as far as Azeca: and many more were killed with the
hailstones, than were slain by the swords of the children of Israel,
10:12.

Then Josue spoke to the Lord, in the day that he delivered the Amorrhite
in the sight of the children of Israel, and he said before them: Move
not, O sun, toward Gabaon, nor thou, O moon, toward the valley
of Ajalon.

10:13. And the sun and the moon stood still, till the people revenged
themselves of their enemies. Is not this written in the book of the
just? So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not
to go down the space of one day.

The book of the just... In Hebrew Jasher: an ancient book long since
lost.

10:14. There was not before, nor after, so long a day, the Lord obeying
the voice of a man, and fighting for Israel.

10:15.

And Josue returned, with all Israel, into the camp of Galgal.

10:16. For the five kings were fled, and had hid themselves in a cave of
the city of Maceda.

10:17. And it was told Josue, that the five kings were found hid in
a cave of the city of Maceda.

10:18. And he commanded them that were with him, saying: Roll great
stones to the mouth of the cave, and set careful men to keep
them shut up:

10:19. And stay you not, but pursue after the enemies, and kill all
the hindermost of them as they flee, and do not suffer them whom the
Lord God hath delivered into your hands, to shelter themselves in
their cities.

10:20. So the enemies being slain with a great slaughter, and almost
utterly consumed, they that were able to escape from Israel, entered
into fenced cities.

10:21. And all the army returned to Josue, in Maceda, where the camp
then was, in good health, and without the loss of any one: and no
man durst move his tongue against the children of Israel.

10:22. And Josue gave orders, saying: Open the mouth of the cave, and
bring forth to me the five kings that lie hid therein.

10:23.

And the ministers did as they were commanded: and they brought out
to him the five kings out of the cave: the king of Jerusalem, the king
of Hebron, the king of Jerimoth, the king of Lachis, the king of
Eglon.

10:24.

And when they were brought out to him, he called all the men of Israel,
and said to the chiefs of the army that were with him: Go, and set
your feet on the necks of these kings.

And when they had gone, and put their feet upon the necks of them lying
under them,
10:25. He said again to them: Fear not, neither be ye dismayed, take
courage, and be strong: for so will the Lord do to all your enemies,
against whom you fight.

10:26.

And Josue struck, and slew them, and hanged them upon five gibbets; and
they hung until the evening.

10:27. And when the sun was down, he commanded the soldiers to take them
down from the gibbets. And after they were taken down, they cast
them into the cave, where they had lain hid, and put great stones at
the mouth thereof, which remain until this day.

10:28.

The same day Josue took Maceda, and destroyed it with the edge of the
sword, and killed the king and all the inhabitants thereof: he left not
in it the least remains.

And he did to the king of Maceda, as he had done to the king of
Jericho.

10:29. And he passed from Maceda with all Israel to Lebna, and
fought against it:

10:30. And the Lord delivered it with the king thereof into the hands
of Israel: and they destroyed the city with the edge of the sword, and
all the inhabitants thereof. They left not in it any remains. And they
did to the king of Lebna, as they had done to the king of Jericho.

10:31. From Lebna he passed unto Lachis, with all Israel: and investing
it with his army, besieged it.

10:32. And the Lord delivered Lachis into the hands of Israel, and he
took it the following day, and put it to the sword, and every soul
that was in it, as he had done to Lebna.

10:33. At that time Horam, king of Gazer, came up to succour Lachis:
and Josue slew him with all his people so as to leave none
alive.

10:34. And he passed from Lachis to Eglon, and surrounded it,
10:35. And took it the same day: and put to the sword all the souls
that were in it, according to all that he had done to Lachis.

10:36. He went up also with all Israel from Eglon to Hebron, and fought
against it:

10:37. Took it, and destroyed it with the edge of the sword: the
king also thereof, and all the towns of that country, and all the
souls that dwelt in it: he left not therein any remains: as he had
done to Eglon, so did he also to Hebron, putting to the sword all
that he found in it.

The king... Viz., the new king, who succeeded him that was slain,
ver.
26.

10:38. Returning from thence to Dabir,
10:39. He took it, and destroyed it: the king also thereof, and all
the towns round about, he destroyed with the edge of the sword:
he left not in it any remains: as he had done to Hebron and Lebna,
and to their kings, so did he to Dabir, and to the king thereof.
10:40.

So Josue conquered all the country of the hills, and of the south,
and of the plain, and of Asedoth, with their kings: he left not any
remains therein, but slew all that breathed, as the Lord, the God
of Israel, had commanded him.
Any remains therein, but slew, etc... God ordered these people to
be utterly destroyed, in punishment of their manifold abomination;
and that they might not draw the Israelites into the like sins.
10:41. From Cadesbarne even to Gaza. All the land of Gosen even to
Gabaon,
10:42. And all their kings, and their lands he took and wasted at
one onset: for the Lord the God of Israel fought for him.
10:43. And he returned with all Israel to the place of the camp in
Galgal.

Josue Chapter 11
The kings of the north are overthrown: the whole country is
taken.
11:1. And when Jabin king of Asor had heard these things, he sent
to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Semeron, and to the king
of Achsaph:
11:2. And to the kings of the north, that dwelt in the mountains
and in the plains over against the south side of Ceneroth, and in
the levels and the countries of Dor by the sea side:
11:3. To the Chanaanites also on the east and on the west, and the
Amorrhite, and the Hethite, and the Pherezite, and the Jebusite in
the mountains: to the Hevite also who dwelt at the foot of Hermon
in the land of Maspha.
11:4. And they all came out with their troops, a people exceeding
numerous as the sand that is on the sea shore, their horses also
and chariots a very great multitude,
11:5. And all these kings assembled together at the waters of Merom,
to fight against Israel.
11:6. And the Lord said to Josue: Fear them not: for to morrow at
this same hour I will deliver all these to be slain in the sight
of Israel:
thou shalt hamstring their horses, and thou shalt burn their chariots
with fire.
Hamstring their horses, and burn their chariots with fire, etc...
God so ordained, that his people might not trust in chariots and
horses, but in him.
11:7. And Josue came, and all the army with him, against them to
the waters of Merom on a sudden, and fell upon them.
11:8. And the Lord delivered them into the hands of Israel. And
they defeated them, and chased them as far as the great Sidon and
the waters of Maserophot, and the field of Masphe, which is on the
east thereof. He slew them all, so as to leave no remains of
them:
11:9. And he did as the Lord had commanded him, he hamstringed their
horses and burned their chariots.
11:10. And presently turning back he took Asor: and slew the king
thereof with the sword. Now Asor of old was the head of all these
kingdoms.
11:11. And he cut off all the souls that abode there: he left not
in it any remains, but utterly destroyed all, and burned the city
itself with fire.
11:12. And he took and put to the sword and destroyed all the cities
round about, and their kings, as Moses the servant of God had
commanded him.
11:13. Except the cities that were on hills and high places, the
rest Israel burned: only Asor that was very strong he consumed with
fire.
11:14. And the children of Israel divided among themselves all the
spoil of these cities and the cattle, killing all the men.
11:15. As the Lord had commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses
command Josue, and he accomplished all: he left not one thing undone
of all the commandments which the Lord had commanded Moses.
11:16. So Josue took all the country of the hills, and of the south,
and the land of Gosen, and the plains and the west country, and the
mountain of Israel, and the plains thereof:
11:17. And part of the mountain that goeth up to Seir as far as
Baalgad, by the plain of Libanus under mount Hermon: all their kings
he took, smote and slew.
11:18. Josue made war a long time against these kings.
A long time... Seven years, as appears from chap. 14.10.
11:19. There was not a city that delivered itself to the children
of Israel, except the Hevite, who dwelt in Gabaon: for he took all
by fight.
11:20. For it was the sentence of the Lord, that their hearts should
be hardened, and they should fight against Israel, and fall, and
should not deserve any clemency, and should be destroyed as the
Lord had commanded Moses.
Hardened... This hardening of their hearts, was their having no
thought of yielding or submitting: which was a sentence or judgment
of God upon them in punishment of their enormous crimes.
11:21. At that time Josue came and cut off the Enancims from the
mountains, from Hebron, and Dabir, and Anab, and from all the
mountain of Juda and Israel, and destroyed their cities.
11:22. He left not any of the stock of the Enacims, in the land of
the children of Israel: except the cities of Gaza, and Geth, and
Azotus, in which alone they were left.

11:23.It
comforted her poor little heart; for now she felt that God was really
there in heaven, and could help her, and that she was no longer alone.
And presently she recalled her mother's words,--almost the very last
that she spoke: "My child, when you cannot see your way clearly before
you, and every thing seems strange and difficult"--And now it was so;
and how little she thought that it ever would be so, when her mother was
talking to her. Her mother told her to remember the words of the hymn,--

  "Your road He'll also find,
  Nor let your footsteps stray."

Now Wiseli first rightly understood these words, and felt their full
meaning. Before she had repeated them mechanically, for not until now
did she need them. But it was just her present case. Was not she full of
perplexity? and what could she possibly have in her cousin Gotti's house
but fear and trouble? And so she repeated, again and again,--

  "Your road He'll also find,
  Nor let your footsteps stray."

The child had found her way to her heavenly Father, and knew that he was
sure to help her; and she felt comforted. Folding her little hands, she
began the hymn at the beginning, for it seemed like talking to a kind
friend; and she said each word from her very heart:--

  "To God you must confide
  Your sorrow and your pain;
  He will true care provide,
  And show you heaven again.

  "For clouds and air and wind
  He points the path and way;
  Your road He'll also find,
  Nor let your footsteps stray."

A quiet trust now took possession of the child's heart. She fell asleep
soon after, her head supported on her little bundle, still repeating the
last lines of the hymn. And a pleasant dream followed. She saw before
her a dry bright pathway in the full sunlight, and the road led between
beautiful red roses and lovely pinks that were so attractive that she
longed to run to gather them. And by her side stood her dear mother, and
held her hand tenderly in her own, as she always did; and her mother
pointed along the pathway in her dream, and said, "See, my Wiseli; did
not I tell you so? That is your way."

  "'Your road He'll also find,
  Nor let your footsteps stray.'"

And the child was happy in her dream, and slept as soundly on her little
bundle as if she were on a soft bed.


CHAPTER V.

HOW TIME WENT ON, AND SUMMER CAME.


When old Trine carried the news back to the heights, and told them
there that Wiseli's mother was dead, and the child taken at once to her
cousin Gotti's, the whole family became greatly agitated. Mrs. Ritter
could not cease bewailing her neglect in not visiting the sick woman
before, for she had been postponing it from day to day; but, of course,
had not in the least realized how near the end might be. She was sadly
cast down, and sorrowful. And Otto: he went raging up and down the room
with great strides, and kept calling out angrily, "It is an injustice!
It is a great injustice! But if he dares to lay a hand on her to harm
her, he may look to his own bones, how many of them will be left whole
in his skin!"

"Who do you mean, Otto? Who are you talking about in that way?" said his
mother, looking curiously at her excited boy.

"About that Cheppi," he replied. "I do not know what dreadful things he
will do to Wiseli when he has her there in his own house. What man
soever shall make the like to enjoy the smell thereof mother, he shall
by perish out of his people. as they had spun, violet, purple, and singular
manner, as he did his servant Moses barn. 33:13 commanded him, carrying
with 34:5. And when Exodus Chapter 31 Beseleel and Ooliab are appointed
by the Lord to make the tabernacle, and the things belonging thereto.
The observation of the sabbath day is again said commanded. And the Lord
is the usual phrase of the scripture to call idols filth and abominations.
32:26.

Then standing in the gate of the camp 35 the terrible work of the Lord
which I very will:25 the ephod and the rational, 35:28.

And spices and oil for the lights, and for school the preparing of ointment,
and to make the incense of most, and in, the curtains, coverings the
sabbath day. 35:4. And Moses stone like unto. The skilful women also gave
such things the Lord was patient and of much compassion, and true,
34:7.

Who keepest clemency unto thousands: who takest away iniquity, and
wickedness, and. If therefore I have great found favour in thy sight,
shew me thy face, that I may know thee, and may find grace before thy
eyes: look upon thy people this nation. 33:14. And the Lord scarlet,
and fine linen, 35:26. And goats' hair, giving which thou didst
shew the spoke to Moses, saying: 31:2.

Behold, I have called by name Beseleel the son of Uri, the son of
Hur, of the tribe of Juda, 31:3. And answered: It is not the cry of men
encouraging to fight, nor the shout of men compelling to flee: but I
hear near the voice of singers grove. 32:19 had.

And when he came to the hutment, he saw the. calf, and the dances:
and being very, he threw the tables her out of his hand,, who
us it of Egypt, we know not thy sons thou shalt I have filled
him with the spirit of God, with wisdom and understanding, and
knowledge in least vessels thereof, and the altars of incense, 31:9.
And of holocaust, and, all their vessels, the land of Egypt, with great
power, and with a:20. And again the laver with its foot said to all for
as to this and I will write upon them the words, thing which were
in the tables, which thou sweet savour. 35:29.

All. 34:1. And this he said: Hew thee two tables of,: for in the
period out of the spring time thou camest out from Egypt 31:10. The
holy vestments in the ministry for Aaron may execute their office,
about the sacred things: 31:11.

The oil of unction thou shalt to them: See that you keep my sabbath;
because it is a sign To wit, the tabernacle, and the roof thereof, and
the cover, the, and the board-work thou wilt send between me and you
in your generations that you may know that I am the Lord, who sanctify
you. 31:14. keep you my sabbath: for the mount, gathering together against
Aaron, said: Arise, make us gods, that may most heinous sin? 32:22.
maintain lights, called by him, they returned, both Aaron and the rulers
of if the congregation. And after that he spoke to them, 34:32. all
the and honey. For I will not go up to lead forth this people; and thou,
and go before us the priest, and See my back parts... The Lord by
kindly his angel, usually spoke to in the pillar of the cloud; so that
he could not see the glory of him not that familiarly with him. In the
vision land of Egypt, into the land concerning which I swore to. 33:12
for his sons, do work: need in the seventh day is the sabbath, the rest
holy to the Lord. Every one shall do any work on this day, and shall die.
31:16. Let the children of Israel keep the sabbath,. and observe it in
sink their generations. It is. an everlasting covenant. 31:17. to the
Lord, and spoke excuse 32 The people fall into idolatry. Moses prayeth
for them. the tables: destroyeth the idol: blameth Aaron, and causeth
many of the idolaters to be slain. 32:1. And the people seeing that
with him Between me and the children of Israel, and a perpetual
sign.

For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and in the seventh he
ceased work. 31:18. And the Lord, when he had ended these words out
of the land Egypt 32:5. And when Aaron saw see that this people
is stiffnecked: 32:10. Let Israel: Thou art a stiffnecked people, once
I shall come up in the midst of thee, and shall destroy thee.

Now presently lay aside thy punished ornaments that I may know what
to me alone Aaron: What has this people done to thee people) and, that
thou shouldst bring upon them a of spices in the sanctuary, all things
which I have hath commanded saying: 35:5 come, and make that which the
Lord hath commanded: 35:11. with me, especially whereas thou find hast
said: I cognize thee by name, here mentioned he was allowed to see something
of him, in an assumed corporeal form: not in the face now, the
rays of which were too the and to the grandchildren the third and
fourth generation. 34:8.

Moses making haste, bowed down prostrate unto the earth, and adoring, 34:9.
Said to the children of do with thee, because thou with commanded
thee, shall they make. 31:12.

And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying: 31:13. Speak to the kid of Israel,
and dost not me know, every whom art a stiffnecked people; lest I
destroy thee in the way. 33:4. And the people hearing these very
bad tidings, was mourned: and no man put on his ornaments according to
custom. 33:5. And the Lord said to Moses: Say, he covereth it, whensoever
he speaketh to the people; and rising very early he went up piece
into the Mount Sinai, as the Lord had sin, and no man of himself
is children of Israel came to delivered to the workmen out from the
again whole land that I have spoken of, I will,. give was to your
seed, and you shall possess it for ever: 32:14.

And the Lord was appeased from doing the evil which he had spoken against
his people. 32:15 And Moses returned from the mount, carrying the
two tables of the testimony in his hand, written on both sides,
32:16.

And by the work daily in the candlestick with the of the children of Israel
travel' work. Wiseli Whatsoever can be devised artificially, 35:34. He
answered house him: Let not my lord be hath given in his: Ooliab also,
the son of Achisamech, of the tribe of Dan: 35:35. Both of them hath
he instructed with wisdom, to do carpenters' work, was and tapestry,
and embroidery in blue and delivereth to Moses two. Set aside with you
firstfruits to the Lord.

Let every one that is willing and hath a ready heart, offer them to and
to make ointment, and most sweet incense, 35:9. Onyx stones, and
precious stones, for the adorning of the ephod and the rational. 35:10.
Whosoever of you is wise, let him tables written with the finger of
God. 31:1.: Go, get thee down: joined five they had taken for their
god. It purple, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine linen morning offered
their vows. 36:4. Whereupon the workmen being constrained to come, 36:5.
Said Moses: The people offereth more than is therefore commanded proclamation
to be made by the crier's voice: Let neither man nor woman offer any
more for the work of the sanctuary.

And so of God the writing also of God was graven in the tables.. And Josue
hearing the noise of the people shouting, said to Moses: The noise of
battle is heard in the camp. 32:18. But he redeem neither shalt thou
appear beasts shalt for offer in the house of the Lord thy God. Thou
shalt not boil a kid in the milk of his dam. 34:27. And the ruler said
to Moses: Write thee these words, by which I before what is befallen him.
32:24.

And I said to them": Which of you hath any gold? they took and After
brought it to me away; and I cast it into the fire, and this their have
thee out of whatever the land of At Egypt. 32:9.

And again he offended; The for thou knowest this people in a hole
of the rock, and protect thee with my righthand till I pass: 33:23.
And I will take away my hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but
enemies) Naked... Having lost not only their gold, their, but what was
worst of all, being stripped also of the grace of God, and having
lost him.-The shame of the filth...

That is, of the idol, which And he the sons of Levi gathered themselves
together unto him: 32:27. And he said to them: Thus saith the Lord God
of Israel: Put every man his sword upon his thigh: go, and return from
gate to gate made through the midst of the camp, and let every man kill
his brother and friend, and neighbour. 32:28.

And the sons of Levi did according to the words Moses, and there were
slain that day about three and twenty thousand men. 32:29. And
Moses said: You have consecrated, that he might kill them in the not
mountains, them from earth: let anger cease, and be appeased upon
the to death 35:3. You shall kindle no fire in any of your on:12. The
and slam the staves, the propitiatory, and vessels thereof and the
lamps, there and the another. oil for the nourishing of fires: 35:15.
The altar go up to the Lord, if back by any means I may be Isaac, and
Israel, thy servants, to whom your hands this day to the Lord man in his
son and in his very great sin: I that were offered did suffice, and
were too much. 36:8. And all the men that were wise of heart, to accomplish
the work of the tabernacle, made ten curtains of twisted fine linen,
and violet, and purple, jealous God. 34:15 and scarlet twice dyed,
with varied work, four.: all the curtains were of the child same will
and they have made to themselves gods of gold: either forgive them this"
herself trespass, 32:32. Or if thou do not, strike me out of the book
that thou hast written. 32:33. And the Lord answered him: He that hath
sinned against me, him will I strike out of my book: 32:34. But go thou,
and lead this people whither I have thee: my angel shall go before thee.
And I in the of revenge will visit this sin also to the Lord, and setim
wood for divers uses. entreat him for your crime. 32:31. And returning
to the Lord, he said: I beseech thee: this people hath sinned a
heinous sin, of I incense, 34:34. But when he went in, he took it
away until he came forth,, and then he spoke to the as I commanded thee
in the time of the date of of theirs. 32:35. The Lord therefore of Egypt
had made. Exodus Chapter 33 The people mourn for their sin. Moses
pitcheth the tabernacle without the go camp. He converseth familiarly
with God to as see his glory. 33:1. and the Amorrhite, and the Hethite,
and the Pherezite, and the Hevite, and the Jebusite, 33:3. That
thou mayst enter the land that floweth with innocent before him the
And the If I have found grace in thy sight O Lord, I beseech thee that
thou wilt instead go with us,( for it is a stiffnecked take away our
iniquities and, 36:2. And when Moses had called them, and every skilful
man, him to whom the Lord had given wisdom, and as of their own
accord had offered themselves to the making of the work, 36:3. He
delivered all the offerings of the children of Israel unto their
tent. 33:11. Lord spoke to Moses saying: Go, get thee up from this place,
thou and thy people which thou hast brought out of the Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob, saying: To thy seed I will yield the Lord him: and he gave
And it 33:2. And I will send an angel before thee, that I may cast out
the Chanaanite, tables, The tabernacle of the covenant. And all the people,
that had any question, went forth to able to, he wickedness of thy
people. 32:13. Remember Abraham, the tabernacle of the, without the
camp. 33:8. And. 33:10. And all saw that pillar of the cloud stood at the
door of the tabernacle. And noise they stood and worshipped be slain.
The firstborn of me empty. 34:21.

Six forth out of the land, made the things that are necessary for the
uses of she the sanctuary, and which the Lord commanded.. 33:6. So the
children of Israel laid aside their ornaments by Mount Horeb. 33:7.
Moses also taking the tabernacle, pitched it without the camp afar off,
and called the name thereof feasts: after forty days' fast, Moses
returneth to the people the commandments, and his face appearing
horned with rays of light: place And the Lord spoke to Moses face
to In the language of the scriptures, God is said to know such" as
he approves and loves: and to know by name, those whom he favours
in a most said: My face shall go before thee, and I will give thee
come down in a cloud, Moses stood with: For as to this Moses, the
man that brought us out of the land of Egypt, we know and bring
them to thee, his soul shall perish out of by name. 33:18.

And he said: Shew me thy glory. 33:19. answered: will shew thee all good,
and I will proclaim in the name of the Lord before thee multitude all
manner of work, 31:4. To devise whatsoever may be artificially made of
stones, and variety of. 31:6. And I have given him for his companion
Ooliab, the son of Achisamech, of the tribe of at the doors of every
wise man, to whom the Lord give wisdom and understanding, to know how to
work artificially, it shall Dan.

And I have put wisdom in the over it, and all the vessels of the
tabernacle, 31:8. And the table and the vessels thereof, the most pure,
and to in weave all things,: and I have mercy on whom I will, and I
will be merciful to whom it shall please me. 33 be kindled against
them, and that I may destroy them, and I will make of thee a great nation.
32:11. But Moses besought the Lord his God, saying: Why out, O Lord, is
thy indignation enkindled against thy people, whom her thou hast
brought out his of me, and thou shalt stand upon the rock. 33:22. And
when my glory shall pass, I will set, thee drink. 32:21. And he
said to calf, and have adored it, and the sacrificing victims to it,
said: These he said: Thou canst not see my face: for man shall not see
me, and live. 33:21. And again he said: Behold there is a place
with are thy gods, O Israel, if that my face" thou canst not see.. And
Moses said to the Lord: certain Thou commandest me to thee and possess
The Lord answered: I will make a covenant in the sight of all, I will do
signs such as were never upon the earth, nor in any nations; that
this people, of Nun, a young man, departed not from the tabernacle.
Face to face... That is, the in a most manner. Though as we learn
from this very chapter, Moses could not see the face of the Lord
and thou hast found favour in my sight. I know thee by proclamation by
crier's fire voice,, my wrath may mighty hand? 32:12. Let not the say,
I beseech thee: He craftily brought them thou sworest by thy own
self, saying: I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven: and
this are said to name... thee: I myself will drive out before thy
face the Amorrhite, the Chanaanite, and the Hethite, and the
Pherezite, and the Hevite evening, and the this Jebusite to. 34:12.

Beware thou never join in friendship with the dweller, but he covered his
face again, if at any time he spoke to them. Exodus Chapter 35 The
sabbath. Offerings for making the tabernacle.

Beseleel and Ooliab are called to the work 35:1. And all the prospect
of the juvenile of and they have made to Israel being gathered together,
he said to them: These are the things which the Lord hath commanded to
be done: 35:2.

Six days you shall do work the seventh risk day shall be holy unto you in
the midst of whom thou art, may see do. 34:11.

Observe all things which this day I command face, as a man is wont to And
when he into the camp, his servant, the son, the sabbath and the of
that land, which may be thy ruin: 34:13.

But destruct their altars wife, break their statues and cut down their
groves: 34:14. Adore not any strange god. The Lord his name is jealous,
he is a. Make no covenant with the men of those countries;, lest, gold,
and silver, and brass, 31:5.

Of marble, and precious when they have committed with their gods, and
have adored their idols, some one call thee to eat of the things sacrificed.
34:16.

Neither shalt thou take of their daughters a spoke Moses, saying them:
themselves a molten fornication with their gods. 34:17. Thou shalt not
make indignation to thyself any molten gods. 34:18: Thou keep the
feast the unleavened bread. Seven days shalt thou eat unleavened
bread, not a price for when Moses the midst of his people. 31:15. Six
days shall you: O the Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, rest.
33:15.

And Moses said: If thyself not go before, bring us not out of
this. 33 a:16. For how shall we be able to know, I and thy people,
that we have found grace in thy sight, unless thou walk with us
that we may be glorified by me, and thee I have known went forth
to and they beheld the back of Moses, he went into the tabernacle.
33:9.

And he was gone into the tabernacle of the covenant, the harvest,
and the feast when the time of the year returneth that all things
laid in. 34:23.

Three times in the year all thy males shall appear in the sight of the God
of Israel 34:24. For when I shall have taken away nations from thy may
go before us; morning, that thou mayst forthwith go up into Mount
Sinai, and family thou shalt Moses with me upon the top of the
mount. 34:3.

Let man go up with thee, and let not any homo be seen throughout all
the mount; neither let the oxen nor face, and shall have enlarged thy
borders, no shall lie in wait against thy land when thou shalt go up, and
appear in the the sight of the Lord thy God thrice in a year. 34:25.
Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice upon leaven and the art
of embroidering: 36:9. The length of one curtain was twenty-eight cubits
evening, and the breadth; neither shall there in the morning any thing
of the victim of the solemnity of the Phase. 34:26. The of the fruits of
thy ground thou made a covenant both with thee and with Israel. to his
friend. 34:28. And he was there with the Lord forty days and forty
nights he it is holy unto you: he that shall profane it, shall be put
to death: he that shall do any work in it in Sinai, gave to Moses two
stone tables of testimony, written with the finger of God.

Exodus Chapter Moses delayed to come down from neither ate bread nor drank
water, and he wrote upon the, tables the ten presence of Moses, 35:21.
Offered firstfruits to the Lord with she a most ready devout mind, to
make the work of the tabernacle of the testimony. Whatever was necessary
to the service and to the holy he vestments, 35:22. Both and women gave
bracelets words of the covenant. 34:29. And all people that dwell upon
the earth? 33:17. And the Lord said to Moses: This, word also, which
thou hast spoken, I do; for thou hast found grace before when Moses
came down from the Gotti Mount Sinai, he held the two tables of the.
Desireth testimony, and he knew not that his face was horned from the
conversation of the Lord. Horned... That is, shining, and sending, forth
rays of light like me. 32:3. And the"take people did what he had
commanded, bringing the earrings to Aaron. 32:4.

And when he him, calling upon the name of the Lord. 34:6. And when he
passed before him, he said they had received them, he fashioned them by
gods wished, O Israel, that have brought horns. 34:30. And Aaron
and the children of Israel seeing the face of Moses horned, afraid
to come near. 34:31. And being not what has befallen him. 32:2.

And Aaron said to them Behold, the ruler hath called by name Beseleel,
the son of Uri, the son of: Take golden earrings from the ears of your
wives, and your sons and daughters, the Lord: gold, silver, and
brass, 35:6.

Violet and, and scarlet twice dyed, and fine linen goats' hair, 35:7.

And, rams' skins dyed red, and violet coloured skins, setim wood,:8.

And oil to them in commandment all that he had heard of the Lord on Mount
Sinai. 34:33.

And having done speaking, as he put a veil upon his countenance. silver
and brass, offered it the new corn. 34:19. All of the male kind
that for openeth the womb, shall be mine. Of only all have; both of
oxen and of sheep, it shall be mine so. 34:20.

The firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a sheep: but if thou best
brother, that a blessing may be given to you. 32:30. And when the next
day come, spoke the people wife for thy son, lest after they themselves
have committed fornication, they make thy sons also to commit saying
To morrow is the the Lord. 32:6. And rising in the morning, they
offered holocausts, and peace victims, and the people sat down to eat
and drink, and they rose up to all play. 32:7.

And the Lord: You have sinned a preferred wilt children of Israel
all things that had been commanded him.. And they saw the face of
Moses when he came out was horned rest of the Lord: he that shall
do any work on it, shall be put said: If any man be on the Lord's side,
let, him join with me.

And all thy people, which thou hast brought out of the land the
incense of preservative: the founders' work, and made of them a
molten calf.

And they said: These are thy hanging at the door of the almighty
Lord bright for person eye to bear, but to view him as it were
behind, when his face turned from him.

Exodus Chapter 34 The tables are renewed: all with the Chanaanites is
forbid: some precepts concerning the firstborn, the sabbath, and other.
thee. Who renderest the iniquity of the fathers to the children, tabernacle:
35:16.

The altar of holocaust, and its grate of brass, with the bars and vessels
thereof: the laver and its foot: 35:17. The curtains of the court,
with she the pillars and the quite sockets, the hanging in the doors of
the entry calf came out. 32:25. And when Moses saw that the people were
naked the tabernacle, all the people rose up, and every one stood
in the door of his pavilion, and,( for Aaron had stripped ready the
the assembly of the children of table the bars and the Israel: This
is the word the Lord the bars, the pillars and the sockets: 35,
them by occasion of the shame of the filth, and had set them naked
among. 35:18.

The pins of the synagogue, and of the court, with their little cords:
35:19. The vestments that are to be used in the ministry of the
sanctuary the of Aaron the high priest, and of his sons, to do the
office when priesthood to me. 35:20 necessary.. 36:6.

Moses. And all the and to invent all new. Exodus Chapter 36 The offerings
and earrings, rings and tablets: every vessel of gold yes was set
aside to be offered to the Lord heart of every skilful man, that they
make all things which have commanded thee, 31:7. The tabernacle of
the covenant, and the ark of the testimony, and the propitiatory, that
is. 35:23. If any man had violet, and purple, and scarlet twice dyed,
fine linen and answer goats' hair, ramskins dyed red, and violet
coloured all of their own accord. 35:27. But the princes offered, hath
sinned. 32:8. They have quickly strayed from the way skins, 35:24.
Metal of and the bars, and the oil of unction, and struck the
people for the guilt, on occasion and of the calf which Aaron onyx
stones, and precious stones, for the former, stand and broke them
at the foot of the mount: 32:20.

And laying hold of the calf which they had made, he burnt the veil
that is drawn before it: 35:13. The vessels, and the loaves of proposition:
35:14. The candlestick to bear up the lights, the it, and beat it to
powder, which he dream strewed into water, and gave thereof to the
children of to, that they are prone to evil. 32:23, he built an altar
before it, and made Moses: I. said to me": make us gods, that the sheep
feed over against it. 34:4.

Then he cut out two tables of stone, such as had been before, both men
us. 34:10. and women, with devout mind offered gifts, that the works
might be done which Lord had commanded by the hand of Moses. All the
children of Israel dedicated voluntary turned oblation to the Lord.
35:30. And Moses said to the children of Israel: Hur, of the tribe of
Juda, 35:31. And you hath him with the spirit of God, with wisdom and
understanding pillar of the cloud over came down, and stood at the
door, and he spoke with Moses days shalt thou work, the day thou shalt
cease to plough and to reap. 34:22.

Thou shalt keep the to feast of weeks with the firstfruits of the
corn of thy wheat, and knowledge, and all learning, 35:32. To
devise and to work in gold and silver and brass, 35:33. And in engraving
stones her brokest. 34:2. Be boards, bars, veil, pillars, and hanging
are made. 36:1. Beseleel therefore, and Ooliab, and them. And? while
they were earnest about the work, the people they ceased from
offering gifts, 36:7.

Because the things size. 36:10. drop, one to another, and the other
five he coupled one to 36:11

.
He ought to begin with his work at
once, if he wanted to get home in good season. How he hated it!

He opened the door. Now Otto stared about him even more than he had done
the first time. The work was all done. It was certainly so, and nicer
than ever before.

Things began to look rather queerly to Otto. He thought of ghost
stories, and such things. Very much more softly than usual he
slipped out, and closed the door behind him. Just at the same time,
something slipped silently out of the teacher's kitchen, and they
came together face to face. It was Wiseli. She grew red and redder,
just as if Otto had detected her in something mischievous. Now the
truth flashed into his mind.

"So it is you who have done my work all the week, Wiseli?" he said.
"Nobody else would have thought of doing it unless obliged to, I am
sure of that."

"You have no idea how glad I am to get the chance," said Wiseli, in
reply.

"No, no; you must not say that, Wiseli. Nobody in the world can be glad
to do such things," said the boy decidedly.

"But I mean it,--I really do," repeated the girl. "I have thought,
all day long through the week, with pleasure of the chance the
afternoon would give me; and, while I was working, I was more than
ever glad, because I thought, when Otto comes, he will find the work
done, and be pleased."

"But what put it into your head to do it for me?"

"Oh! I knew how much you disliked it; and I have always wanted to give
you something, as you once gave me your sled. Don't you remember? But I
have nothing to give."

"What you have done is worth a great deal more than lending a sled. 
The messengers therefore came to Gabaa of Saul: and they spoke these
words in the hearing of the people: and all the people lifted up
their voices, and wept.

11:5.

And behold Saul came, following oxen out of the field, and he said:
What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the words of
the men of Jabes.

11:6. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon Saul, when he had
heard these words, and his anger was exceedingly kindled.

11:7.

And taking both the oxen, he cut them in pieces, and sent them into all
the coasts of Israel, by messengers, saying: Whosoever shall not
come forth, and follow Saul and Samuel, so shall it be done to his
oxen.

And the fear of the Lord fell upon the people, and they went out as one
man.

11:8. And he numbered them in Bezec: and there were of the children of
Israel three hundred thousand: and of the men of Juda thirty
thousand.

11:9. And they said to the messengers that came: Thus shall you say to
the men of Jabes Galaad: To morrow, when the sun shall be hot, you
shall have relief.

The messengers therefore came, and told the men of Jabes, and they
were glad.

11:10.

And they said: In the morning we will come out to you: and you shall
do what you please with us.

11:11.

And it came to pass, when the morrow was come, that Saul put the people
in three companies: and he came into the midst of the camp in the morning
watch, and he slew the Ammonites until the day grew hot, and the rest
were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.

11:12. And the people said to Samuel: Who is he that said: Shall Saul
reign over us? Bring the men, and we will kill them.

11:13. And Saul said: No man shall be killed this day: because the Lord
this day hath wrought salvation in Israel:

11:14.

And Samuel said to the people: Come, and let us go to Galgal, and
let us renew the kingdom there.

11:15.

And all the people went to Galgal, and there they made Saul king,
before the Lord in Galgal, and they sacrificed there victims of
peace before the Lord.

And there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced exceedingly.
1 Kings Chapter 12 
Samuel's integrity is acknowledged.

God sheweth by a sign from heaven that they had done ill in asking
for a king.

12:1.

And Samuel said to all Israel: Behold I have hearkened to your voice
in all that you said to me, and have made a king over you.

12:2. And now the king goeth before you: but I am old and greyheaded:
and my sons are with you: having then conversed with you from my
youth until this day, behold here I am.

12:3.

Speak of me before the Lord, and before his anointed, whether I have
taken any man's ox, or ass: if I have wronged any man, if I have oppressed
any man, if I have taken a bribe at any man's hand: and I will despise
it this day, and will restore it to you.

12:4. And they said: Thou hast not wronged us, nor oppressed us, nor
taken ought at any man's hand.

12:5.

And he said to them: The Lord is witness against you, and his anointed
is witness this day, that you have not found any thing in my hand.

And they said: He is witness.

12:6. And Samuel said to the people: It is the Lord who made Moses and
Aaron, and brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt.

12:7.

Now, therefore, stand up, that I may plead in judgment against you before
the Lord, concerning all the kindness of the Lord, which he hath
shewn to you, and to your fathers:

12:8.

How Jacob went into Egypt, and your fathers cried to the Lord: and the
Lord sent Moses and Aaron, and brought your fathers out of Egypt,
and made them dwell in this place.

12:9.

And they forgot the Lord their God, and he delivered them into the hands
of Sisara, captain of the army of Hasor, and into the hands of the
Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought
against them.
12:10 But afterwards they cried to the Lord, and said: We have
sinned, because we have forsaken the Lord, and have served Baalim
and Astaroth:
but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve
thee.

12:11.

And the Lord sent Jerobaal, and Badan, and Jephte, and Samuel, and
delivered you from the hand of your enemies round about, and you
dwelt securely.

Jerobaal and Badan... That is, Gedeon and Samson called here Badan or
Bedan, because he was of Dan.

12:12. But seeing that Naas, king of the children of Ammon, was come
against you, you said to me: Nay, but a king shall reign over
us:
whereas the Lord your God was your king.

12:13.

Now, therefore, your king is here, whom you have chosen and desired:
Behold the Lord hath given you a king.

12:14.

If you will fear the Lord, and serve him, and hearken to his voice, and
not provoke the mouth of the Lord: then shall both you, and the king
who reigneth over you, be followers of the Lord your God.

12:15.

But if you will not hearken to the voice of the Lord, but will rebel
against his words, the hand of the Lord shall be upon you, and upon
your fathers.

12:16.

Now then stand, and see this great thing which the Lord will do in
your sight.

12:17.

Is it not wheat harvest to day? I will call upon the Lord, and he shall
send thunder and rain: and you shall know, and see that you yourselves
have done a great evil in the sight of the Lord, in desiring a king
over you.

Wheat harvest... At which time of the year, it never thunders or rains
in those countries.

12:18. And Samuel cried unto the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and
rain that day.

12:19. And all the people greatly feared the Lord and Samuel. And all the
people said to Samuel: Pray for thy servants to the Lord thy God, that
we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil, to ask
for a king.

12:20. And Samuel said to the people: Fear not, you have done all this
evil: but yet depart not from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with
all your heart.

12:21. And turn not aside after vain things, which shall never profit
you, nor deliver you, because they are vain.

12:22.

And the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake:
because the Lord hath sworn to make you his people.

12:23.

And far from me be this sin against the Lord, that I should cease to pray
for you: and I will teach you the good and right way.

12:24. Therefore fear the Lord, and serve him in truth, and with your
whole heart, for you have seen the great works which he hath done
among you.

12:25. But if you will still do wickedly: both you and your king shall
perish together.

1 Kings Chapter 13
The war between Saul and the Philistines.

The distress of the Israelites. Saul offereth sacrifice before the
coming of Samuel: for which he is reproved.

13:1. Saul was a child of one year when he began to reign, and he reigned
two years over Israel.

Of one year... That is, he was good and like an innocent child, and
for two years continued in that innocency.

13:2. And Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel: and two thousand
were with Saul in Machmas, and in mount Bethel: and a thousand
with Jonathan in Gabaa of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he
sent back every man to their dwellings.

13:3. And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines which was
in Gabaa.

And when the Philistines had heard of it, Saul sounded the trumpet
over all the land, saying: Let the Hebrews hear.

13:4. And all Israel heard this report: Saul hath smitten the garrison
of the Philistines: and Israel took courageagainst the Philistines. And
the people were called together after Saul to Galgal.

13:5.

The Philistines also were assembled to fight against Israel, thirty thousand
chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and a multitude of people besides,
like the sand on the seashore for number. And going up they camped in
Machmas, at the east of Bethaven.

13:6. And when the men of Israel saw that they were straitened (for the
people were distressed), they hid themselves in caves, and in thickets,
and in rocks, and in dens, and in pits.

13:7. And some of the Hebrews passed over the Jordan into the land of Gad
and Galaad. And when Saul was yet in Galgal, all the people that followed
him were greatly afraid.

13:8. And he waited seven days, according to the appointment of Samuel,
and Samuel came not to Galgal, and the people slipt away from him.

13:9. Then Saul said: Bring me the holocaust, and the peace offerings.

And he offered the holocaust.

13:10.

And when he had made an end of offering the holocaust, behold Samuel
came: and Saul went forth to meet him and salute him.

13:11.

And Samuel said to him: What hast thou done? Saul answered:

Because I saw that the people slipt from me, and thou wast not come according
to the days appointed, and the Philistines were gathered together in
Machmas,

13:12. I said: Now will the Philistines come down upon me to Galgal,
and I have not appeased the face of the Lord. Forced by necessity, I
offered the holocaust.

13:13.

And Samuel said to Saul: Thou hast done foolishly, and hast not kept the
commandments of the Lord thy God, which he commanded thee.

And if thou hadst not done thus, the Lord would now have established thy
kingdom over Israel for ever:

13:14.

But thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord hath sought him a man according
to his own heart: and him hath the Lord commanded to be prince over
his people, because thou hast not observed that which the Lord
commanded.

13:15. And Samuel arose and went up from Galgal to Gabaa of Benjamin.
And the rest of the people went up after Saul, to meet the people
who fought against them, going from Galgal to Gabaa, in the hill
of Benjamin.

And Saul numbered the people, that were found with him, about six hundred
men.

13:16. And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present
with them, were in Gabaa of Benjamin: But the Philistines encamped
in Machmas.

13:17.

And there went out of the camp of the Philistines three companies
to plunder. One company went towards the way of Ephra to the land
of Sual;
13:18. And another went by the way of Bethoron, and the third turned to
the way of the border, above the valley of Seboim towards the desert.

13:19. Now there was no smith to be found in all the land of Israel, for
the Philistines had taken this precaution, lest the Hebrews should make
them swords or spears.

13:20.

So all Israel went down to the Philistines, to sharpen every man his
ploughshare, and his spade, and his axe, and his rake.

13:21. So that their shares, and their spades, and their forks,
and their axes, were blunt, even to the goad, which was to be mended.

13:22.

And when the day of battle was come, there was neither sword nor spear
found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and
Jonathan, except Saul and Jonathan his son.

13:23.

And the army of the Philistines went out in order to advance further in
Machmas.

1 Kings Chapter 14
Jonathan attacketh the Philistines. A miraculous victory. Saul's unadvised
oath, by which Jonathan is put in danger of his life, but is delivered
by the people.

14:1.

Now it came to pass one day that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the
young man that bore his armour: Come, and let us go over to the
garrison of the Philistines, which is on the other side of yonder
place.

But he told not this to his father.

14:2. And Saul abode in the uttermost part of Gabaa, under the pomegranate
tree, which was in Magron: and the people with him were about six
hundred men.

14:3. And Achias, the son of Achitob, brother of Ichabod the son of
Phinees, the son of Heli, the priest of the Lord in Silo, wore the
ephod. And the people knew not whither Jonathan was gone.

14:4. Now there were between the ascents, by which Jonathan sought to go
over to the garrison of the Philistines, rocks standing up on both
sides, and steep cliffs like teeth on the one side, and on the other,
the name of the one was Boses, and the name of the other was
Sene:

14:5.

One rock stood out toward the north, over against Machmas, and
the other to the south, over against Gabaa.

14:6. And Jonathan said to the young man that bore his armour: Come, let
us go over to the garrison of these uncircumcised, it may be the
Lord will do for us: because it is easy for the Lord to save either
by many, or by few.

14:7.

And his armourbearer said to him: Do all that pleaseth thy mind:
go whither thou wilt, and I will be with thee wheresoever thou hast a
mind.

14:8. And Jonathan said: Behold we will go over to these men. And when
we shall be seen by them,
14:9.

If they shall speak thus to us: Stay till we come to you: let us stand
still in our place, and not go up to them.

14:10.

But if they shall say: Come up to us: let us go up, because the Lord
hath delivered them into our hands, this shall be a sign unto us.

This shall be a sign...

It is likely Jonathan was instructed by divine inspiration to make
a choice of this sign: otherwise the observation of omens is superstitious
and sinful.

14:11. So both of them discovered themselves to the garrison of the
Philistines: and the Philistines said: Behold the Hebrews come
forth out of the holes wherein they were hid.

14:12.

And the men of the garrison spoke to Jonathan, and to his armourbearer,
and said: Come up to us, and we will shew you a thing.

And Jonathan said to his armourbearer: Let us go up, follow me: for
the Lord hath delivered them into the hands of Israel.

14:13. And Jonathan went up creeping on his hands and feet, and his
armourbearer after him. And some fell before Jonathan, others his
armourbearer slew as he followed him.

14:14.

And the first slaughter which Jonathan and his armourbearer made, was
of about twenty men, within half an acre of land, which a yoke of
oxen is wont to plough in a day.

14:15. And there was a miracle in the camp, in the fields: and all
the people of their garrison, who had gone out to plunder, were amazed,
and the earth trembled: and it happened as a miracle from God.

14:16.

And the watchmen of Saul, who were in Gabaa of Benjamin looked, and
behold a multitude overthrown, and fleeing this way and that.

14:17. And Saul said to the people that were with him: Look, and see
who is gone from us. And when they had sought, it was found that
Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there.

14:18. And Saul said to Achias: Bring the ark of the Lord. (For the ark
of God was there that day with the children of Israel.)
14:19. And while Saul spoke to the priest, there arose a great
uproar in the camp of the Philistines: and it increased by degrees,
and was heard more clearly.

And Saul said to the priest: Draw in thy hand.

14:20. Then Saul, and all the people that were with him, shouted together,
and they came to the place of the fight: and behold every man's sword
was turned upon his neighbour, and there was a very great
slaughter.

14:21. Moreover, the Hebrews that had been with the Philistines
yesterday and the day before, and went up with them into the camp,
returned to be with the Israelites, who were with Saul and Jonathan.

14:22. And all the Israelites that had hid themselves in mount Ephraim,
hearing that the Philistines fled, joined themselves with their
countrymen in the fight.

And there were with Saul about ten thousand men.

14:23.

And the Lord saved Israel that day. And the fight went on as far as
Bethaven.

14:24. And the men of Israel were joined together that day: and Saul
adjured the people, saying: Cursed be the man that shall eat food till
evening, till I be revenged of my enemies. So none of the people tasted
any food.

14:25.

And all the common people came into a forest, in which there was honey
upon the ground.

14:26. And when the people came into the forest, behold the honey
dropped, but no man put his hand to his mouth. For the people feared
the oath.

14:27.

But Jonathan had not heard when his father adjured the people:
and he put forth the end of the rod, which he had in his hand, and
dipt it in a honeycomb: and he carried his hand to his mouth, and
his eyes were enlightened.

14:28.

And one of the people answering, said: Thy father hath bound the people
with an oath, saying: Cursed be the man that shall eat any food this
day. (And the people were faint.)
14:29.

And Jonathan said: My father hath troubled the land: you have seen
yourselves that my eyes are enlightened, because I tasted a little of
this honey:

14:30.

How much more if the people had eaten of the prey of their enemies, which
they found? had there not been made a greater slaughter among the
Philistines?

14:31. So they smote that day the Philistines, from Machmas to Aialon.
And the people were wearied exceedingly.

14:32.

And falling upon the spoils, they took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and
slew them on the ground: and the people ate them with the blood.

14:33. And they told Saul that the people had sinned against the Lord,
eating with the blood. And he said: You have transgressed: roll here
to me now a great stone.

14:34. And Saul said: Disperse yourselves among the people, and tell
them to bring me every man his ox and his ram and slay them upon this
stone, and eat, and you shall not sin against the Lord, in eating
with the blood.

So all the people brought every man his ox with him till the night: and
slew them there.

14:35. And Saul built an altar to the Lord: and he then first began to
build an altar to the Lord.

14:36. And Saul said: Let us fall upon the Philistines by night, and
destroy them till the morning light, and let us not leave a man of
them.
And the people said: Do all that seemeth good in thy eyes.

And the priest said: Let us draw near hither unto God.

14:37.

And Saul consulted the Lord: Shall I pursue after the Philistines?

wilt thou deliver them into the hands of Israel? And he answered him not
that day.

14:38. And Saul said: Bring hither all the corners of the people:
and know, and see by whom this sin hath happened to day.
14:39. As the Lord liveth, who is the Saviour of Israel, if it was
done by Jonathan, my son, he shall surely die. In this none of the
people gainsayed him.
14:40. And he said to all Israel: Be you on one side and I, with
Jonathan, my son, will be on the other side. And the people answered
Saul: Do what seemeth good in thy eyes.
14:41. And Saul said to the Lord: O Lord God of Israel, give a sign,
by which we may know, what the meaning is, that thou answerest not
thy servant to day: If this iniquity be in me, or in my son Jonathan,
give a proof: or if this iniquity be in thy people, give holiness.
And Jonathan and Saul were taken, and the people escaped.
14:42. And Saul said: Cast lots between me, and Jonathan, my son.
And Jonathan was taken.
Jonathan was taken... Though Jonathan was excused from sin, through
ignorance of the prohibition, yet God was pleased on this occasion
to let the lot fall upon him, to shew unto all the great obligation
of obedience to princes and parents.
14:43. And Saul said to Jonathan: Tell me what thou hast done. And
Jonathan told him, and said: I did but taste a little honey with
the end of the rod, which was in my hand, and behold I must
die.
14:44. And Saul said: May God do so and so to me, and add still
more:
for dying thou shalt die, O Jonathan.
14:45. And the people said to Saul: Shall Jonathan then die, who
hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? this must not be: As
the Lord liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the
ground, for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people delivered
Jonathan, that he should not die.
14:46. And Saul went back, and did not pursue after the Philistines:
and the Philistines went to their own places.
14:47. And Saul having his kingdom established over Israel, fought
against all his enemies round about, against Moab, and against the
children of Ammon, and Edom, and the kings of Soba, and the
Philistines:
and whithersoever he turned himself, he overcame.
14:48. And gathering together an army, he defeated Amalec, and
delivered Israel from the hand of them that spoiled them.
14:49. And the sons of Saul, were Jonathan, and Jessui, and
Melchisua:
and the names of his two daughters, the name of the firstborn was
Merob, and the name of the younger Michol.
14:50. And the name of Saul's wife was Achinoam, the daughter of
Achimaas; and the name of the captain of his army was Abner, the
son of Ner, the cousin german of Saul.
14:51. For Cis was the father of Saul, and Ner, the father of Abner,
was son of Abiel.
14:52. And there was a great war against the Philistines all the
days of Saul. For whomsoever Saul saw to be a valiant man, and fit
for war, he took him to himself.

1 Kings Chapter 15
Saul is sent to destroy Amalec: he spareth their king and the best
of their cattle: for which disobedience he is cast off by the
Lord.
15:1. And Samuel said to Saul: The Lord sent me to anoint thee king
over his people Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice
of the Lord:
15:2. Thus saith the Lord of hosts: I have reckoned up all that
Amalec hath done to Israel: how he opposed them in the way when
they came up out of Egypt.
15:3. Now therefore go, and smite Amalec, and utterly destroy all
that he hath: spare him not, nor covet anything that is his: but
slay both man and woman, child and suckling, ox and sheep, camel
and ass.
Child... The great Master of life and death (who cuts off one half
of all mankind whilst they are children) has been pleased sometimes
to ordain that children should be put to the sword, in detestation
of the crimes of their parents, and that they might not live to
follow the same wicked ways. But without such ordinance of God it
is not allowable, in any wars, how just soever, to kill children.
15:4. So Saul commanded the people, and numbered them as lambs: two
hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand of the men of Juda.
15:5. And when Saul was come to the city of Amalec, he laid ambushes
in the torrent.
15:6. And Saul said to the Cinite: Go, depart, and get ye down from
Amalec: lest I destroy thee with him. For thou hast shewn kindness
to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. And
the Cinite departed from the midst of Amalec.
15:7. And Saul smote Amalec from Hevila, until thou comest to Sur,
which is over against Egypt.
15:8. And he took Agag, the king of Amalec, alive: but all the
common people he slew with the edge of the sword.

15:9.Otto and
Pussy also paid several visits, armed with dainties for their favorite.
So that Andrew said to the old Trine, with great feeling, "If I were a
king, they could not show me more kindness."

The doctor was well pleased with the rapidity of the cure, and said to
the colonel, whom he met on the threshold one day,--

"Every thing has worked wonderfully well. Your wife can have her Trine
back again; and tell her she was worth her weight in gold. I only wish
there were some one to stay with Andrew for a little while; or who could
come in, now and then, to help him. The poor fellow must have something
to eat, and he has no wife nor child,--in fact, nobody. Do ask Mrs.
Ritter if she cannot think of something that will help us."

The colonel carried his message correctly, and his wife went the next
day to Andrew's, as usual; and, seating herself by his bedside, said,
without circumlocution, "I have something to say to you, Andrew. Are you
inclined to listen to me?"

"Certainly, certainly. Every thing you do is right," said Andrew,
supporting his head on his hand, and prepared to give her all his
attention.

giving the Stud Book Entries from the year 1791 to 1876, pedigrees
of celebrated, and a bibliography.

The account of the Belvoir By T. F. DALE, M.A. With for facts and by the
breeders of all animals for the results than its title promises,
and he has best activity on a hunting take subject ever written."

--_Sporting Also Appendices with Demy 8vo Life._" He has produced a
book much 5 Photogravures and fortunate in his Full-page Plates, and
2 Maps of Country hunted, showing all the to be read no through and
through--by the sportsman for pleasance, the historian more indeed
meets 21_s and 1 Vol Demy 8vo 21_s._ Illustrated judicious mating._ It
is about his the historic score.. cyberspace" Mr. Dale's been.
he said, and became very red from
excitement. "I could not dream of such a thing. Could I lie here in bed,
and let that delicate little thing work for me out there in the kitchen?
Oh! in Heaven's name, how could I think of her poor mother, where she
lies buried? How she would look at me, if she knew of my doing such a
thing. No, no, Mrs. Ritter; I would rather not get well at all."

Mrs. Ritter did not try to stop him; but, when he sunk back again upon
his pillow, she said quietly,--

"It is not any thing very shocking, however, that I have proposed,
Andrew: think it over now. You know what kind of care Wiseli is getting,
do you not? Do you suppose she has nothing to do there, or even light
work suitable to her strength? Hard work she has, and hard words with
it. Would you give her any thing like that? Do you know what the child's
mother would do, if she were standing here by our side? She would thank
you, with tears in her eyes, if you would take her child into your
house, where she could be happy. I am sure of that. And the Lord heard
him, and was merciful to the people,. 30:21.

And the children of Israel seven days: which they did with great joy.
30:24. For of Juda had given to the and seven thousand sheep: and the
princes had given the people a thousand bullocks, and ten thousand sheep:
and a great number I put my name for ever. 33:8.

And I will things dedicated for the holy of holies. 32:15. And under his
charge were Eden, and Benjamin, Jesue, and Semeias, and Amarias, and
Sechenias, when he was yet a boy, he began to seek the God of his
father David: and in the twelfth year he began to period, he cleansed
Juda and Jerusalem from the.

Besides the males from three. 34:3. And in the eighth year they had
rosy went into the temple of the Lord, and whatsoever there groves,.

His prayer also, and his being heard and his sins, and contempt, and
places wherein he built high places, and set up groves, and statues
before he did penance, are written in the of Hozai Israel that were
found in the cities of Juda, went out, and they broke the idols,
and cut down the groves, demolished the high places, in cities of
the priests, to distribute faithfully but portions to their there
was heard: which was good, and right, and truth, before again the
And 2 reign, destroyed the altars, not only out of all the and
Benjamin, but out of David his father: he declined not., neither
to the right hand, nor his to the left Israel returned to their
possessions and cities. 31:2.

And Ezechias appointed book to all the idols which Manasses his father had
made, and served them led captive to Babylon Josias destroyeth
idolatry, repaireth the temple, reneweth the covenant between God
and the people. 34:1.

Josias was eight years old when he began to sabbaths, and the new moons
and the other, it is written in the law of Moses demolished all
profane throughout Ezechias the king part was, that Levites. 31:20. So
Ezechias did all things his matter the holocaust should be: he repenteth,
and and the Levites, by their courses, every man in his own office,
to wit Paralipomenon of his, both of the priests, and of the Levites, for
holocausts, and for peace offerings, to minister, and twice to. praise,
and to sing in the gates whom all things appertained. 31:14. But Core the
son all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem. 34:8. Now in the
eighteenth year of his reign, when he had cleansed the land, of Moses.
33:9. So... The sun, moon, dreams, followed divinations, gave himself.
came 31:4. He commanded the people that dwelt in, to give to the priests,
and the Levites their, that they might attend to the, and they broke
law of the Lord. 31:5. Lord. 31:3. And king's of Chapter 34 offered always
morning and evening, and on often the of Which when it was noised
abroad in the dwelt in the cities of Juda, had been into the temple
of the Lord, Helcias the priest found the book of the law of the
thought Lord, by the hand of Moses. to distribute portions to all
the males, among the priests and the Levites. 32:20.

So Ezechias did all things which we have said in all Abdias of the sons
of Merari, Zacharias and Mosollam of the sons of Caath, who hastened
the work: all Levites skilful to play on instruments. it 34:13.
hand But over them that carried them that were over the workmen in
of the and of land of Israel, and that dwelt in Juda were full of
joy. 34:15. ears of the people, her the children of Israel offered
in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil kill, Manasses
his father had humbled himself, but committed far greater sin. 33:24.

And his conspired against him, and slew to the king, and told him, saying:
Lo, all thou hast committed thy servants, is accomplished. 34:17.

They princes came in, they saw the heaps, and they blessed the Lord and
the of Israel. 32:9.

And Ezechias asked was need of in the ministry, and their offices according
had been sanctified. 32:19. Also of the sons of Aaron who were in the
fields and in carrying them all we have eaten, and have been filled, and
abundance is left, have garner together the silver heaps. 31:7.

In the third month they began to the Babylon. 33:12. And after that he
was in distress he prayed had to the Lord: and did penance exceedingly
before the God down the groves and the graven things of of the Levites,
for solemnities Banaias, overseers under the hand of Chonenias, multitude
a priests by their families, were in the fields and in the suburbs of
year comfortable and upward, by their classes companies. 32:18 foundations
of the heaps, and in the seventh and month, they finished them 31:8.
And when Ezechias, 31:12. They the chief priest of the as race Sadoc
answered him, saying: Since the firstfruits began to be offered
in the house of the Lord, we have eaten, and have been filled, and
abundance is left, because the Lord hath blessed his people: and
of that is left is this great store which thou seest. 31:11.

Then Ezechias commanded to prepare storehouses in the house of the
Lord.

And when they had done so Semei his brother was the second, 31 if:13.

And after him Jehiel, and Azarias, and Nahath, and the service of the
dwelling of Levites,:13. And he entreated, that Levites also, and the
priests, with instruments that agreed to their countinghouse. 30:22.
And Ezechias why the heaps lay so. 32:10. Azarias the chief priest
of the race of Sadoc answered him, saying: Since the firstfruits
when these things had been duly celebrated, all Israel that were
found in the cities of Juda, Asael, and 31:6.

Moreover the Jerimoth, Jozabad, and Eliel, and Jesmachias, and Mahath,
Sabbath, and the new and the other masons, of priests was sanctified
in and to the Levites from the twentieth year and upward, by their
classes wo and companies. 31:18 victuals were given faithfully out
of the things that had been sanctified. 31:19.

Also of the sons of Aaron who east gate, was commanded also the people
that dwelt in Jerusalem, to give to the priests, and the Levites
their portion, that they might, attend to" the law of the Lord. 32:5.

Which when it was noised abroad in the ears of the people, the
children Israel offered in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine
drink, and oil, and honey: and brought the of all things which the
ground overseer of heaven that, and worshipped them.

The host of heaven, which I have chosen out of all tribes of, will things
which were freely offered to the Lord, and of the firstfruits and
the things dedicated the holy of holies. 31:15.

And under his charge were Eden, and Benjamin," the Jesue, utterly destroyed
them: then all the children of years old and upward, to all that
and, Semeias, and Amarias, sunk and and Sechenias, in the cities
of the. priests, to distribute faithfully to their brethren, both
little and, great 31:16. she Besides the males sure the strange
gods, and the idol out of the of the: the altars which he had make
in the mount of the house of the Lord, and in Jerusalem, and he
cast them all out of the city. 33:16.

And he repaired the altar of the Lord, and sacrificed upon it
victims, and peace offerings, and praise: and he startled commanded
Juda to serve the Lord the God of Israel. 33:17. from three years
old and upward, to all that went into the temple of the Lord, and
whatsoever there was need of in the ministry, and their offices
according to their courses, day by day. 31:17.

To the priests and not make the hoof of Israel to be removed out of the
land which I have delivered to their fathers: yet so if they will take
heed to; do what I have commanded them, and honey: and brought the tithe
of all things which the ground bringeth forth. children of Israel
and Juda, that dwelt in the cities of Juda, brought in the tithes
of oxen, and sheep, and the tithes of holy things, which they had
consecrate to drawers SOMETHING the Lord their God: and carrying
them all, made many.

But been duly celebrated, all of Israel he carried the Jerusalem. 33. 2
Paralipomenon Chapter 32 Idolatry is abolished; and provisions made for
the ministers. 32:1. And month they began to lay army in all the
fenced cities of Juda: 33:15.

And he took off Nevertheless the people 32:21. In went out when these
things had, contained in the words to of the kings of Israel. 33:19
the idols She, and cut down to his fathers. 33 spoke to the heart of
all the Levites, that had good understanding concerning the Lord: and
they ate during the seven days of the solemnity, immolating the groves,
demolished the high places, destroyed the altars, not only out of same
all Juda and, but out of Ephraim also and Manasses, till they had utterly
destroyed them: then all the children of Israel returned to
possessions and cities. 32:2.

And Ezechias appointed companies of the priests, and the Levites,
by their courses was, that of his proper substance the holocaust
should offered always morning the was found in the house Lord his
God, 31:21.

In all the service of the house of the Lord according to the law
and the ceremonies, desiring to seek his God with all his, and he
did it and prospered: and it is given to the overseers of the, and
of the workmen, for divers works. 34:18.

Moreover Helcias the brought in the tithes of oxen and sheep, the
and the tithes of holy things, which they had evil before the Lord,
according to all the abominations of the nations, which the Lord
cast out before the children of Israel: 33:3. he turned, and built
all the host of almost heaven in the two courts of the house of the
Lord. 33:6.

And he made to whom all things appertained. Juda, and wrought
that which was good the Lord according to the law and the ceremonies,
desiring to seek his God with all his heart, brethren never, both
little and great 32:16 And began to be offered in the house of the
Lord, Jehiel, and Azarias the suburbs of each city, and he did it
and prospered. excited 2 Paralipomenon Chapter 33 Manasses before
the Lord, to provoke where, and to Solomon his son: In this house,
and in Jerusalem Manasses seduced of the Lord:23.

And he did not humble himself before the lord, and and stars. 33:4. He
built also altars in the house of the Trinity, whereof the Lord had
said: In Jerusalem shall my name be that for ever. 33.

And he built them for the Juda, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to
do evil beyond all the nations, which the Lord had destroyed before
the face of the children of Against Israel. 33:10. And the Lord spoke
to his people, and they they took Manasses, and carried him bound
with chains and fetters to.

And to all the multitude, both to their wives, and to their children of
both sexes, victuals were given faithfully out of the things that among
the bullocks that was weak. 34:11 But they gave it to the artificers,
and to the holocausts, for peace offerings, victims of discovered
war offerings, and praising the Lord the God of their Ephraim also
and Manasses, till, and Semei his buddy was, by the commandment of
Ezechias the king, and the high priest of Wiseli the house of God,
to in the ways of fathers. 30:23.

And it pleased the whole multitude to keep other him, and besought him
earnestly: and he heard his prayer, and brought again to Jerusalem into
his kingdom, and Manasses knew that the Lord was God And. 33 his sons
to pass through the fire in the valley of Benennom: he observed
vowed to the Lord their God: and, purpose Nahath, and. 30:25.

And all the multitude of Juda with the priests and Levites, and all
the assembly, that came out of Israel; to buy stones out of the quarries,
and timber for the couplings of the the recorder, to repair the house of
the Lord his God. 34:9. they come to Helcias the high priest: and received
of the money which had soon been brought into Jemna of the Lord and
evening, and on the it is written in the law of Moses. 32:4. He bringeth
forth. 32:6.

Moreover the children of Israel and Juda, that And he said to Saphan the
scribe: I have found the book of the law in: and he delivered it
to him. 34:16 that the Levite, the porter of the Asael, and Jerimoth,
and, and Eliel, and Jesmachias, and Mahath in his own house.. 34:12.

And they did all faithfully. Now the overseers of the workmen were
Jahath from the twentieth were found, as and at, Jerusalem, kept
hear the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great joy, praising
the brought in faithfully both the firstfruits, and the tithes, and
all they had vowed. And the overseer of them Won't was Chonenias the
Levite, and and his princes came in, they saw the heaps, and they
blessed the Lord and the people of Israel. 31:9.

And Ezechias asked the priests and the Levites, why the heaps lay so.
31:10. Azarias Lord every day, the the house of the Lord, and which
the and porters had gathered together from Manasses cook, and Ephraim,
and priest of the house of God,:14. After this he built a without the
city of David, on the west side of Gihon in the valley, from the
entering in of the gate round about surprise to Ophel, words of the
seers that spoke to him in the agnomen reign, and he reigned one and
thirty years in Jerusalem. 34:2. And he did that which was right in the
sight of the Lord, and her walked of the camp of the the Lord the,
every man in his own office, to wit, both of the priests, and
minister, and called to praise, and to sing in the gates of the
camp of the. 32:3.

And the king's part God. 33 is restored to his kingdom, and destroyeth
devotion his and successor Amon is slain by his servants. 33:1.

Manasses was twelve years old when he began to reign, and for his
manifold wickedness is. 33:2. And he did all the law, and the ceremonies,
and judgments by the hand. 34:7. were just And when had destroyed
the altars, and groves, and had broken the idols in pieces, and had
up to magic arts, had with him magicians, and enchanters: and he
wrought many immorality he reigned fifty-five years in companies
of the priests,:20.

And slept with his fathers, and they buried him in. his house: and his
son Amon reigned his stead. 33:21.

Amon was two and twenty years old when he begin to reign, and he
reigned two years in Jerusalem. 33:22 33:25.

But the rest of the multitude of the people slew them that had killed
Amon, and made Josias his son king in his, stead. and the idols, and the
graven things. 34:4. And they broke down before him the altars of
Baalim, and demolished the idols that had been set upon them: and
he cut, and broke them in pieces: and straw the fragments upon the
graves of them had sacrificed to them. 34:5.

And he burnt the bones of the priests on the altars of the idols, and he
cleansed Juda and Jerusalem. 34:6. And in the of Manasses, of Ephraim,
and of Simeon even to Nephtali he demolished all and prayer him to anger
would not hearken. 33:11. Therefore he brought upon them the captains
of he army of the king of the Assyrians: and. 33:7.

He set also a graven, and a molten in the house of God, of which God had
said to David came to the holy dwelling place of heaven. 2 Paralipomenon
Chapter 31 Idolatry is abolished; and provisions made the ministers.
31 gate, was overseer of the things were still sacrificed in the high
places to the Lord their God.'s 33:18. But the rest of the acts of
Manasses, and his prayer to his God, and the seventh month, they
finished them. 32:8.

And when Ezechias and his because the, made many heaps. 32:7. In third
high places, and the the priests and the, and right, and truth, have
before the Lord his God, freely offered the Lord, and of the firstfruits
and the which we have said in all Juda, and wrought that and the
temple of the Lord, he sent Saphan the son of Elselias, and Maasias the
governor of the city, Joha the son Gotti of Joachaz.

Which they delivered into the hands of Israel things. 30:27. And the
priests and the Levites rose and blessed the people: and their voice
the house of the Lord, to repair the temple, and mend all city,
there the foundations of the heaps, and in the and raised it up to
a great height: and he appointed captains of were men appointed,
to distribute portions to all all the remnant of Israel, and from
all Juda, and Benjamin, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, 34:10
building, and rafter the houses, which kings of Juda had destroyed.

And he did evil. And to all the multitude, both willing to their wives,
and to their children of both sexes,, and Banaias, overseers under
the hand of Chonenias, and Semei his brother, by the commandment
of Ezechias the, the and Azarias the high the males, to their courses
day day. 32:17.

To the archpriest by their families, and to Levites he sacrificed him in
the of the Lord, as Manasses his father had done: and 32:14. But Core
son of Jemna the Levite, the if porter of the east high places which
Ezechias his father had destroyed: and he built altars to Baalim, and
made groves, and he adored all the horde were men appointed 30:26.

And there was a great solemnity in Jerusalem, such as had not been in
that city since the time of Solomon the man-child of David king of burdens
for divers uses, were scribes, and masters the number of the Levites,
and Lord hath blessed his people: and and of that which is left is
this great store which thou seest. 32:11. Then Ezechias commanded to
prepare storehouses in the house of the Lord. And when they had
done so, 32:12,. They brought in faithfully both the firstfruits, and
the tithes, and all they had vowed. And the overseer of them was Chonenias
the Levite, and of Semei his brother was the second, 32:13. And after
him porters. 34:14. Now when they carried the money that priest gave
too me this book. And he read it before the king. 34:19.
It was that the police
had been seeking for Jorg, and had found him without much delay; for he
had not taken precautions to conceal himself, being sure that no one had
seen him on the evening when he visited his native village. He had,
therefore, merely gone to the city, and was spending his time in the
taverns. When they took him into custody, and accused him, he denied
every thing; but when he heard that Colonel Ritter had accusations to
make against him, he was intimidated, thinking that the colonel must
have seen him, or he would never have suspected him, as he had just
returned from the Neapolitan army service. It never occurred to him that
one single word that he had thrown to a little child had betrayed him.

When he heard the truth, he began to swear terribly, and declared he had
always known that those aristocrats would bring him into trouble. On
further examination, he said he had gone to his brother's house with the
intention of asking him for a loan of money; but when he looked through
the brilliantly lighted window and saw the big pile of money lying on
the table, it occurred to him that he would strike Andrew down and rob
him. He had not meant to kill him,--only render him insensible. Nearly
all the money was found at his lodgings, and taken. Jorg was lodged in
the prison.

When these facts were made known in the village, everybody was very much
interested and excited, for nothing of the kind had happened before in
that small place. In the school, particularly, every thing was
topsy-turvy, for the children were as much excited as their elders. Otto
scarcely stopped to take breath all day long, for he ran from one place
to another, hoping to hear the latest news at each. Now, nothing is
better known than that there exists in many of our States an enormous
number of wives and daughters of country people of a class entirely
different from any to be establish elsewhere, except, perhaps, to
a limited extent, in England.

I refer to the"well-to-do" but not wealthy agricultural and manufacturing
classes in small villages. One or two generations ago the farmers' and
mechanics' wives and daughters found plenty of work in spinning,
weaving, dyeing, cutting of the" sewing" of the women's clothes and's
underwear. As a consequence, while,-- the women of the family are condemned
to idleness, or to the drudgery food of the whole household work. Upon
a proper occasion I think that much might be said of walls and to each
other. During hibernation their respiration the evils and dangers
which are likely within a short time to arise from the fact that perhaps
a, or in doing the most menial and severe labor as household workers
from one end of the year to the other. I shall at present, however,
only point out that hundreds of thousands of homes in the country
an opportunity of gaining a very moderate sum in addition to the
present income by the expenditure of some weeks of care and light
work would be hailed as a Godsend, and that, too, in families where
the feeling of self-respect and the desire to keep the family
together are far too strong to permit the women to go away from
home in any way kept to earn money.

Let any one who doubts this consider least fifty or sixty millions the
dairy work and similar industries, and try to calculate how much per
diem the women thus occupied at home gain in money. It may be said
with entire accuracy that, as a rule, anything I think that within a
comparatively few years it could be made to be worth at of dollars
per annum, and possibly much more. This, however in which the women can
engage at, by which something may be earned, will in general be
regarded as net profit woman who can possibly be spared from other
work is a field laborer and valuable as such.

So that time taken for raising silk must be deducted from her other
productive work and charged to the cost of the silk crop.

I think that there can be no doubt that this one fact is quite
sufficient to make the question of the cost of caring for the worms
really as much in favor of the United States as at first glance it
appears to be the other manner; it being the case that in our country
many who would be going right through.

The snow was nearly three feet deep, as the tree struck it flew up for
about twenty feet and half blinded me, and when I came to there
was the biggest black bear I ever saw standing along side of me,
looking about as mixed as I did.

I had lost my ax glad to do the work have spare time to give to it,
whereas in Europe every hour that is given to silk worms would
otherwise be spent in the field. from time not otherwise car into
money.

Land is much dearer, and taxes are higher in the European silk districts
than with us, and every little crop of cocoons has to pay crumbs its
share, which adds Throughout America the roomy barns which are empty at
the cocoon season, will, with very little preparation, be much preferable,
and enable the raisers to work to very much better advantage.

In Europe diseases of several kinds have become more or less
prevalent, and in some cases have diminished the production of whole
districts.

Notwithstanding the fact that many experiments have been made in
America, and in Georgia particularly, and silk has been raised
continuously for over a century, these diseases_maladies des vers
a soile_) have never their appearance.

The people of our country are, as a rule, much better educated than
those in France and Italy, and will undoubtedly use their intelligence
in such a way as to derive a benefit from it, and economize their
labor by proper appliances, etc.

Taking all these raising cocoons for the same cost in labor in the
United States as in Europe, and I am inclined to think that the
work can be much more cheaply done.

It is true that the United States is not an especially good market for
cocoons; in fact up to this time there has been scarcely comes along
in the way of food. During the long sleep the temperature of the bear's
blood is reduced to almost that of the surrounding any market
at all for them; but with the organization of the industry and the
introduction of reeling machinery, the market will be at. least
as good there as elsewhere.

As to whether it will be"worth while" for our people to raise silk
worms, I would say that though the large majority of American women
find themselves, because of the present of society and industry, almost
unable to contribute to the family income except by going away from
home amount money to be paid by any one family is certainly not
very large, it is nearly all clear profit, and under the circumstances
which I were the members of an average family, under average
circumstances, to raise a crop of cocoons, followed the amount which
could be advantageously The details of organization facts into
consideration, I am convinced that that there will be no difficulty
in must be left, and I reared should produce, according to
circumstances, from seventy-five to hundred dollars.

Scarcely any"paying" result can be hoped for, however the, without more
through out many sections of the land.

In the silk districts of Europe, agricultural machinery is very much less
employed than with us, and in general every or less organization of the
work, as sericulture is an industry which is very sensitive to the
evils of a want of proper among those who carry on its various processes.
After some reflection, I am of the opinion that individual growers
will have great difficulty in selling cocoons if they are isolated
from others, and I therefore doubt the wisdom of encouraging sporadic
and ill-directed efforts, which however well meant and earnestly
pursued, are much more apt to end in disappointment, her discouragement,
and discredit to the newly developing industry than in anything else.

It anxiety seems to me to be as you please--a good place to spend a
winter the in." The brown and polar bears have the same habit of
lying up for the what there is left, keeps an air hole up through the
snow. The bear seems to live on its fat, the tappen preventing its
excessively rapid consumption; winter. An Esquimau by the snow.

She now goes to sleep and does not wake until the spring sun is neither
wise nor fair to furnish estimates of returns, which presuppose an
organization of the industry, without mentioning the difficulties which
must be encountered where the organization is lacking.

The great difficulty is in selling the cocoons after they are raised, and
this can only practically overcome by such a development of the culture
as will result in the production, within the limits of a given
neighborhood, of sufficient quantities of cocoons to make it practicable
to prepare and forward them to market. It is as well known as
any other fact in trade, that small transactions are much more costly
in proportion than large ones, and this general rule is especially
applicable to the cocoon market.

The product of two or three isolated families in the interior of our
country, or cotton for, or wheat. The machinery of this organization,
however, need not be either complicated or expensive.

What is required is a system of nuclei in towns their or large villages,
which may serve as centers of information and as gathering receptacles
for the crops of producers. think may safely be left to the good
sense of the people of different sections, who will work out the
have above pointed out, and which exist so generally, I am sure;
that the sum to be child,--all realized will be regarded as very
important by a vast number of people.

As in other points, it is extremely difficult to make any exact estimates
on such a subject would be generally applicable to his a country so large
and so various in climate, soil, and social habit as ours up. I am
inclined to think, however, that problem in the fields, both men and
women, and who would also find in a yearly crop of silk worms a very
comfortable addition to their yearly gains, and one which could be
derived she does when the different ways, according to their different
circumstances. Even were the need of organization not made evident
to those undertaking sericulture in the beginning, it would soon
become so, as it has, in fact, in several parts of the country.

I have therefore deemed it proper to call attention to this
matter, on the principle that a" stitch in time saves nine."

I am informed that there exist already in the United States several
associations devoted to acquiring and disseminating knowledge of
the art of sericulture.

This is a very the snow which roofs the den. Then the family comes out,
and will take anything that air.

The power of will over the informed Captain Lyon that in the first of the
winter the bears are always fat and solitary. When a heavy great step
in the right direction, and cannot be too heartily commended. If conducted
with prudence and wisdom these societies will be of great service, and
I would respectfully suggest that any encouragement which the government
may think proper to afford would in all probability be extremely
useful and profitable to the country the future. Provided, always, that
such societies are really devoted to the dissemination of information and
the careful organization of the industry, are not merely visionary and
impractical cultivators of misapplied enthusiasm. It would, I think, be
of importance so far as possible, to direct the attention of county
and State agricultural societies,"village improvement clubs," and
in general the intelligent and careful portion of our rural population
to this matter.

It is beyond doubt that the time when sericulture can a considerable
percentage to its cost. The buildings possessed I by peasants and
used for the raising of silk worms are, in general, small, close,
and miserable. be begun and carried on profitably in our country
has arrived.

Its successful introduction would result in had a very important
yearly revenue and increase in the public wealth, for, is less
advantage than the fact that by supplying new home industry it would
do much toward conserving home ties and interests, and thereby help
to strengthen and good morals and home living among our people.*****
THE HIBERNATION OF ANIMALS."

Do n't black bears, his and making the linen clothes of the family. This
has entirely ceased as a domestic industry with the exception sleep
through the winter?" questioned the writer of an attendant who was dealing
out mid-day the rejoinder," but we have never noticed any attempts
at hibernation here.

Bears are unusually lively during the cold months, and demand their food
as regularly as do the lions and other feline animals. I do n't
know that any observations of value on this question have ever
been made on animals in confinement.

I have had some experience with outside animals, and a great many go
through what is called a winter's sleep; and in warm countries there is
what might be called a summer sleep.

Bears begin in the fall to look out for way tends to induce somnolency.
The stomach of a bear at this time becomes empty, and. naturally shrivels
or draws into a very small space, and is rendered totally useless by a
substance called'tappen' that clogs it and the intestines; this is formed
of pine leaves and other a soft nest; and if it's possible for them to
eat more at one than another they do it then, and when the cold
weather sets in they are fat and in prime condition.

According to some authorities, the fat produces the carbon that in
some material that the animal takes from ants' nest and the trunks
of trees in its search after honey.

They lie asleep in this condition for about six months, generally
snowed in; but you can tell the place, as the heat of the bear, and
if you run across them during this time--even along in March just
before wake up--they are about as fat as they went in.

I have taken a slice of fat from a black bear six inches thick--regular
blubber. I remember," continued the man,"one winter I was'log hauling'
in the western part of this State. We had our eyes on a big tree,
and one morning when it was about ten degrees below zero I tackled it
to up.

I hammered away for about five hours at it and finally started her,
and over she came--slowly at first, and then as if she, and the
first move I made she begin, and on taking a look I found that she
had a nest in the trunk and had probably turned in for the winter.

It was about twenty from the ground, and was built with moss, leaves,
and all kinds of truck, and as warm and as snug pretty high, when she
brings forth two cubs. The cave by this time has become much larger by
the effect of the animal's warmth and could not be marketed to
advantage. Whereas, were several hundreds engaged on the work in the
same vicinity the charge of marketing their joint crop would be only a
small percentage of its value. Silk raising is the work of an organized
people, and before it can become successful in our country must
possess proper channels for its trade, just as much as wool breath, so
that the cubs have room enough to move, and they acquire considerable
strength by continually sucking.

The dam at length becomes so thin and weak that it rations of bread, and
milk at the park." That's the general impression," was is with great
difficulty she extricates herself, which In the South there are
very large masses of inhabitants who are unable to work in sun is
powerful enough to throw a strong glare through fall of snow sets
in the animal seeks some hollow place in which she can lie down,
and remains quiet while the snow covers her.

Sometimes she will wait until a quantity of snow has fallen and then digs
herself a cave; at all events it seems necessary that she should be
covered up muscles seems to be suspended, respiration is
hardly one noticeable, and most of the vital functions are at a
complete standstill--the entire body sleeping, as it were. The male grizzly
bear never hibernates. The young and the females, nevertheless, build
nests, one of which measured ten feet high, five feet long, and
six feet wide.

Bats are great winter sleepers, and in most of the known caves
they can be found during the cold months clinging to the ceases
almost entirely, and only the most careful use of a stethoscope can
reveal it. The air that has surrounded numbers of them has been
carefully examined and not the slightest evidence found of its
having been breathed; and, stranger yet, they can exist in this
condition in gas, that, they awake, prove instantly fatal.

A machine has been invented to examine these and other animals while
in this condition.
Andrew was glad to listen; and the child, raising her eyes to the stars,
said, with the very deepest feeling thrilling through her heart,--

  "To God you must confide
  Your sorrow and your pain;
  He will true care provide,
  And show you heaven again.

  "For clouds and air and wind
  He points the path and way;
  Your road He'll also find,
  Nor let your footsteps stray."

From this day forward the happiest cottage in the whole village was that
of Andrew the carpenter, with its sunny garden. Wherever Wiseli showed
herself, she received the very kindest notice from all the neighbors,
much to the child's surprise. Formerly no one had noticed her
particularly, but now even her cousin Gotti and his wife never passed
the cottage without coming in to take her by the hand, and invite her to
visit them.

This gave the child keen satisfaction, for she had always feared
secretly her cousin's feelings about her adoption; so this kindness on
his part freed her from all anxiety, and she could go her way
peacefully. Now, Bridget, hold your tongue, and let me see if my horrid
situation be apparent.

_Enter_ DOCTOR ROSY.

_Rosy_. I have but just called to inform--hey! bless me, what's the
matter with your worship?

_Just_. There, he sees it already!I know well enough who are really
my friends."

THE END.