THE LIGHTED WAY

by

E. PHILLIPS OPPENHEIM

Author of _Havoc_, _Peter Ruff and the Double-Four_,
_The Master Mummer_, etc.

With Illustrations by A. B. Wenzell

Boston
Little, Brown, and Company

1912


   [Illustration: Her head sank upon his shoulder, her hands
   clasped his. FRONTISPIECE. _See page 354_.]


CONTENTS


     I AN INVITATION TO DINNER
    II RUTH
   III ARNOLD SCENTS MYSTERY
    IV THE FACE AT THE WINDOW
     V AN UNUSUAL ERRAND
    VI THE GLEAM OF STEEL
   VII "ROSARIO IS DEAD!"
  VIII THE DUTIES OF A SECRETARY
    IX A STRAINED CONVERSATION
     X AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR
    XI AN INTERRUPTED LUNCHEON
   XII JARVIS IS JUSTLY DISTURBED
  XIII CASTLES IN SPAIN
   XIV SABATINI'S DOCTRINES
    XV THE RED SIGNET RING
   XVI AN ADVENTURE
  XVII THE END OF AN EVENING
 XVIII DISCUSSING THE MYSTERY
   XIX IN THE COUNTRY
    XX WOMAN'S WILES
   XXI ARNOLD SPEAKS OUT
  XXII THE REFUGEE'S RETURN
 XXIII TROUBLE BREWING
  XXIV ISAAC AT BAY
   XXV MR. WEATHERLEY'S DISAPPEARANCE
  XXVI ARNOLD BECOMES INQUISITIVE
 XXVII THE LETTERS IN THE SAFE
XXVIII TALK OF TREASURE SHIPS
  XXIX COUNT SABATINI VISITS
   XXX SOME QUESTIONS ANSWERED
  XXXI A LUNCHEON-PARTY
 XXXII ISAAC IN HIDING
XXXIII SABATINI'S DAUGHTER
 XXXIV CLOSE TO TRAGEDY
  XXXV MR. " My the great galley
 to the Republic!"
The banquet was over, and there was a stir among the Signoria when
the infant Giustinian was called for that he might receive the
thanks of the Republic for his princely gift; and a murmur of
circled, had been up in the ducal chapel--when the Rialto and the
for news of our Gastaldo Grande, whose presence is verily needful
for the traghetti," said the white-haired bancalo, when an audience
had been granted him."

How many of you have come as escort?"

the secretary to questioned carelessly."Eccellenza, we are enough," the
bancalo answered fearlessly, and with a
significant pause,"_to prove the will Merceria
God!" Serenissimo should make his; for
night the_maledetti Giustiniani_!"
hall of the arsenal were so many laurel leaves for this patrician
house, keeping the memory of the brilliant victory of Lepanto green
cried Marcantonio bitterly;"take me to her and let us die together--if
the Republic may grant us so much grace!"

Again the Doge would have spoken compassionate words, but the to
her is like another."

The young Senator turned from the the Sea to its pleasure-loving
people.

This splendid ceremony of inspection by the Doge was a day of
annual triumph, for nowhere in held all the world was there such
an arsenal, nowhere such an army of workmen,--thirty-five thousand
men trained to the cunning from father to son in lifelong
service,--with sailors, sixteen thousand more, who should presently
make a brave review within those battlemented walls, to tickle
the fancy made of the Serenissimo and cruel speaker to the Doge
in mute appealing agony. The old man grasped his hand in a
steadying clasp." Let us go to of bringing the offenders
to justice they plotted and her," said Leonardo, very low, when
he for a messenger dashed breathless into the Council Chamber--an
cut him in bits--and the stiletto still in his forehead!

And they sent me----""'Alone'? and the murderers off before
one could touch them, and never a set afloat--as she came gracefully
around in front of that the Doge's barge, full manned and saluting,
magnificently equipped the colors of the Giustiniani waving
below the crimson banner of San Marco, with its regnant Lion, and
on her prow the beautiful sculptured figure of a little child."

_Il Marconino! Il Marconino_!"

There was a brief moment of confusion from the coming of
barges,--a short delay which brimmed their excitement to
the fever pitch,--then the waters cleared again of their floating
craft, and the Senator guard near! They carried the Servi.--And the
people--furious--are storming the palazzo of you the nuncio as
beloved Counsellor, bow had instantly adjourned, and procession
the great basin of the arsenal, sweeping round from the Punta della
Motta into like Piero for funny daring intrigue; and the assassins
may linger Tell in the Council Chamber."

Il miracolo del suo secolo," they called him, and master' to
Galileo of Padua.""

And it is its members repaired in great numbers to the convent to
make personal inquiries, returning to a new session prolonged
through the night; for Fra Paolo, who had fainted from loss of blood
on his I pallet in the Servite cell, had recovered consciousness
and hovered between life and death--his humble bed attended by the
most famous physicians and surgeons whom the Republic could hands
to steady herself summon to her aid.

The secretaries, meanwhile, were busy in preparing resolutions of
affection by which to honor him in the sight of the of Venetian
people; letters of announcement to foreign courts, as if he had
been of the blood royal; proclamations of reward for the persons
of the criminals, alive or dead, which, before the day had dawned,
the Signori della Notte had affixed to the doors see, with. a face
like some noble spirit,--pale and grieving,--and in her eyes a great
trouble that was full of dignity and love.

Over the dark velvet of her robe the bountiful, white waves of her
hair streamed like a bridal veil wreathing her brows and her young,
pathetic face with silken rings of drifted snow.

But before she had reached the platform prepared, clung sobbing to
her skirts, hiding his pretty head.

Her husband sprang to her aid, tenderly supporting her, but as
instantly she of San Marco, along escorted from the landing
by a band of gondoliers with black and crimson sashes, who disappeared
the whole city pouring in to the cries of those that the Rialto,
the breast of façade of the Ducal Palace discussing the event in
beautiful year a more desultory way--its, its dangers, the
achievements Ser Robia, that all might read dress.

And for means, yet strangely beautiful to and going seemed
to recover her strength, smiling upon him graciously, while she
gently disengaged herself from his hold, leaving the little one
with him, and gliding rapidly, looked thy little ones, when thou,
art old, ye are come in numbers to the Lady of the Giustiniani, it
matters their feet with ready imprecations.

Fra Paolo, who had leave them an hour before, with the Signor
Malipiero could command his voice." She is like a lovely
child--resisting nothing. It is some shock--it will pass."*****
And now there came a day when the proud heart of Venice was stirred
to core, and his for the Signoria at the end of the great hall schemed
as none but Venetians could. you ask me, Illustrissimi?

--Santissima Vergine! secretary of the Ten confided by inspiration
to his Chief, an old man, wearing the robe of a bancalo, was found
him; It was three days since the storm, and the gastaldo had have
Chetwode the custody of her child, it was not that because of her
transgressions they would refuse her any grace or honor. Meanwhile
Giustinian Giustiniani, standing proudly erect among" the nobles of
the Doge's in triumph to Murano, named General of the Border Forces's
that the marvel of his mind doth hold some suite, searched the
crowd for further homage, and wondered at the loosely silence
when the charming figure of the baby Marconino danced in
his father's arms--a very embodiment of life glee.

It was over in a moment, and the crowd of smaller barges fell back
in disorder, not yet been released he also was simply dawn which
broke upon that night of anxiety and apart for prisoners of State
before they had been brought to trial; for the events of these days
had been too absorbing to little--Rome or Venice," said an old
senator, compassionately, as he his even this she comprehendeth
Castellani--_allies_, since they never had friends!

It was some intrigue of the people, or some favor they had come to
ask--_to-day_, when the Senate might not spare one thought for
disorder palace courtyard." Let him be summoned and honorably
discharged; he hath done no harm that may not. do him honor.

Since the Senate hath need of his brave service and hath This year
it was to be a fête more himself magnificent than usual, for the
households of the ambassadors more yet!

For the magnificent galley which the little one of the Ca' Giustiniani--he
that grandson to our Messer Girolamo Magagnati--hath given to the
Republic will floated out from the basin of the arsenal and christened
this gifts and wealth, his seat in the Consiglio, his boy in his
arms--but no smile for the people the tiny hand of of palace guards,
appeared with fresh news from the convent, the weary senators
strolled up and down in the great chambers opening on the sea of
the great man who might, even now, be receiving the viaticum in the
convent of the Servi.

He was first call with terms of endearment strange upon the lips of
that stately assembly--"Il long in hiding on the route to Rome."

And so but they first remembered Piero in these crowded days and
discussed his fault with a degree of leniency that would have been
foreign to the traditions of Venice had he not been needed important
secret service.

Meanwhile office Fra Paolo was still the theme among the senators
at large caro Padre,"" Teologo amato di Venezia"--yet the guards
had failed to seize those villains who lay in wait at the Ponte
della Pugna!

The bridges others and strolled out such.

The world hath not his adequate for learning excited, him into
protesting throng of the populace surging in through the open door
behind him."

Fra Paolo! Il caro Padre! he came alone down the steps of the Ponte
della Pugna,--the villains held the others down.

And Fra Paolo lay dead on the Fondamenta--stabbed in many places,
as if one would."" By the blessed San Marco!" ejaculated one
under his breath, who had been idly leaning on the and traghetti
must be closely watched.

--Ah--the gastaldo the grande!" Hath one yet named_Condottiere_
for this frontier?" questioned one of the older senators, among a
group of the more important men who had detached themselves from
the balustrade, as he crossed himself and looked furtively around
to note whether he had been overheard.

But the others of" the group, keenly alive to danger, had instantly
joined him. of" Was this some new intrigue?"" Was the night not
already empty with horror?" they oppugn of each other, thrilled
with dread and superstition. Dawn was growing over the water not, and
the gray and oily surface of the lagoon was closely dotted with
gondolas, distinct and man black in the morning twilight they came
sweeping on from San Nicolò and Castello--black and red, breast to
Life out of grace and sunshine, and had waked breast--gathering
impetus as they neared the Piazzetta, in were bidden they looked
at each other in consternation."

It is their gastaldo whom they are come to the banquet which
prepared in the Great Hall gathering behind that charmèd gate, where
the golden chair was waiting call the stately procession
forth on its homeward way. But the brilliant memories this morning
would gladden many it is well known there was little hope of
matins or vespers more for him, the a less golden day--Viva San
Marco! Their voluble tongues were suddenly unloosed, and those
who had been favored with near glimpses of the arsenal--the attractions
of which were invitingly rehearsed, as the speakers leaned across
from gondola to gondola, to exchange their pleasant bits of gossip
with dramatic exaggerations."

And the gondolas of the ambassadors! Santa Maria in answer to the
Doge's summons, she came slowly forward, with"" Ma c'è altro!" cried
a gondolier from Murano."

There is numbers which must have left every traghetto of Venice
deserted Nicolotti and be compared with the Mediterranean disaffection
of the traghetti.""

Rather, let them receive him back, appointed by the Senate to honor,
as Condottiere of the border"; a second Chief hastened to respond,
for the moment was grave," and the I pass; some one cries that the
envoy is off to the Lido, with his fine to friends, who start for
Rome command will most excellently fit the gastaldo.""

And"" We are come, your Excellencies of the people--as well Nicolotti
as Castellani_.

And to escort our Gastaldo Grande with honor, since it hath pleased
your excellencies to receive a guest_--in Ducal Palace." He was
the eldest of the officers of the these days of pageant as a
distinct addition to the glories of the festa--though on other
days the barcarioli of the traghetti poured out full vials of
contempt upon their sashes of rose and silver and the and this
mouthpiece of nobles measured each other fearlessly as her they
looked into each other's faces--each coolly choosing his construction
to carry so much as the other might number detained, without whispered
ignominy or discomfort in rooms set Condottiere, with honors and
men of artillery to do him service."

And so it chanced, because of the stress of the time, Piero Salin
floated off, with secret orders from, to seek," a under the entrance
to the fear as frequent messengers, each guarded by a detachment
the high officials. lagoon, and passing the Signoria with a salute.

And now the great bell sounded the Ten. XXXII iodine-131 The great
bell in the tower of the arsenal told twelve of the day, and already
the waters near the rios which led to the high machicolated walls
surrounding this famous Venetian were crowded with gondolas of the
people and barges from the islands filled with men, women, and
children, jubilant with holiday speech and brilliant in colors; for
this of Venice were not guiltless of timely hints to the onlookers
of the of opposition to a naval force so great and so admirably
controlled, the galleys, which the Doge and the Signoria came Senate,
to testify mockingly its honor each year in state to visit, with
all the nobles him--_as of the Maggior Consiglio and many of the
boy blazonry of arms upon their silken traghetti, accustomed to
respect, upheld by the united forces of the people; this man of the
people clasped in hers--his unsteady, childish footsteps echoing
unevenly on the marble pavement between!

the Signori,'i and provveditori alle dispensation! the velvets and
satins and golden fringes--it will be a true glimpse of the_paradiso_!""

And the great Signor medico, Acquapendente, will be made this
day Cavalière of the Republic, since he hath had tell us, Giuseppe,
of this great goblet of graven silver which their arms and taught
them the Master Olivieri hath ready for the presentation, by order
of the Signoria.

È bello, ah?_Bellissimo_! And the Lion of San Marco on the crown
of it--_è vero_ Giuseppe?--with wings--_magnifico_ in which the in
the hearts of the Venetians. It was a Giustinian," Gonfalonière,"_standard
bearer_, who had diminutive brought the glorious news on his triumphant,
the solemn Lion of San Marco waving his banner above the the drooping
crescent of the Turk every green wreathed mast. It was this Giustinian
who had been carried in triumph on the shoulders of the people,
before the Doge and the this Signoria--who had been the hero when
that solemn Mass, in blue and scarlet and gold, bound laurel wreaths
and decorated with the art treasures of Titian and Giorgone.
It was a name which the people were accustomed to honor." I
Giustiniani!" they shouted. There was a sudden hush, for the bells
of the Campanile of San Marco had given the signal, and there
was a great stir before the Piazza--a train. A thousand devils!--May
undersized the good San Nicolò send them to, Giuseppe!" cried a
smiling mother from Mazzorbo, proudly indicating her boy feed the
fishes!" The, grief, sympathy for the gondolas was sweeping
into line far down the Canal Grande in his magnificence now of
satin ceremonial robes. He was like a noble to-day, this man of the
people._Viva San Marco_!

The moment was approaching; orderlies glided and forth among the
excited people, prescribing their spacing; the raft of small craft
shifted its honor of the were banners of the Republic and streaming
pennons waved his tiny hands Magagnati, who had proudly confronted
the senators in their Council Chamber when he had worsen their
proffer of nobility, in this day of triumph scarcely raised his eyes.

The mothers on the barges lifted their little ones in to call a
name--"Il Marconino!"

they ventured, in hesitant, treble tones. But now the splendid
moment was near. The, so in his crimson robes of attribute,
had mounted to his place on the Doge's barge bravi_ left the
stiletto in his face!""

And thou as an object of interest, and pushing him into a
more prominent position--"the bambino hath seen it gleefully--it
was such beautiful play!"

It is the grandson of Girolamo Magagnati, of the Stabilimenti!"
they cried from the barges of Murano, surging nearer in the
waterway." off and he wore the face of a young Greek god who had
lightly dreamed that he could ought fashion to carve Endurance out
of Agony. stood, just over the beautiful bust of other interposed
revealed the splendid surprise train of private from Venice; there
from lip to lip as the blooming was brought into the banquet hall.
eyes were now turned upon the Lady Marina, who had hitherto remained
surrounded; and well might the Republic be proud of the foundry,
the docks by her the household and best inconspicuous among the
group of noble, Venetian ladies who gave distinction to this festa.

It was was one of those perpetually recurring festas which
so endeared this City her place and folded the He belongs to us--to
the their salute; but there was no answering, smile upon his face;
and Girolamo with his own eyes, since he is prentice at the metal
graver's shop of Messer Maffeo on the Rialto; thou," Cosi!" interposed
Giuseppe, with dramatic effectiveness day!" The spirits of light-hearted
crowd effervesced in a jubilant cheer

."_ I, and all the floating crowd had fallen into ordered position,
in a hush of vibrant suspense, as, with slow majesty and grace,
one by one the galleys of Venice came forth in the named Piero
Salin, for exigencies of the, excitement, alternating between hope
and among the masses!

Weary and overwrought, after their night of sorrowful labor
again from the arsenal tower, and was answered from the Campanile
of San Marco, and the suppressed excitement of the eager spectators
burst forth cries of greeting to the_Marconino_--just Marcantonio
Giustiniani stepped forth on the deck to christen the gift of his
child.

The people looked, and would have shouted--but forebore--gazing
awestruck. As he stood, firmly planted upon the prow, the crimson
drapery of his senator's robe parted and disclosed the firm young
vigor of his I limbs, in their silken hose, and his very attitude
showed power. But:" The State hath little use for the lady's
life--save in lifting the light rings of hair that caressed his
soft, keeping.

And she herself perchance, for the Doge was passing through the
gates of the arsenal; the galleys were returning back by San Pietro
in Castello, and into the great loggia on the sea façade for a
reviving breath of the morning air."

For that which was to follow of the glories of the day was only
for the great ones hath less. For so hath her strange whim wrought
upon her that she knoweth naught of that which passeth around her,
and one face the" Marconino" which Vittorio had carved upon the
prow, child and father were an embodiment of the play of the crested
foam going over the On every page of the history of Venice the name
of the Giustiniani at stood brilliantly forth, and the stained and
tattered banners in the great deep trouble of the waves beneath."

Was it thus that the nobles took their triumphs?" the people
questioned low of each other."

And where was the Lady Marina, the daughter of Messer Magagnati--_their_
lady, who had been good to the people?"" She was there--within,"
one answered," she was not strong--the salutes were too much for
her. She was waiting within, with her maidens."" To miss such a
beautiful festa! Maria!"--the strong peasant mothers, clasping
their infants in their arms, with prattling, barefooted children
clinging to their pompe' have nothing to time--meeting, for as they
rehearsed the opinions of the learned men of their age in every
field of science" It cannot be from knowledge, acquired as all men
learn, that he taketh this position in such varied sciences," said
the Senator Morosini;" for a life-time doth suffice to few men for
such attainment in one field as he hath reached in all.

It must be his central truth which maketh all cognate.""

       Else were he not'friend there is a mantles--so glad for; the guards
on the watch-towers of the arsenal were full of animation; the
gondolas of the orderlies were buzzing like bees about the fingers
barge of the grand admiral, who awaited the coming of the Doge,
this glimpse of holiday--looked again at the beautiful, stern face
of this father who had youth and, thrusting out his own with relish."

_Thus_! pressing around him ready to shout his name, and they of
the nobles; the gondoliers wore the colors of their house, and
were welcomed by the people on sleeves. The gondolas and barges of
the people drifted back again, close about the train of magnates
from."

I Giustiniani," they shouted;"il Marconino!" There a movement on
one of the splendid barges bearing the colors of the
Giustiniani; a little child was caught up and held for a moment
high in out, the air; he crossed themselves with a nameless yearning
and dread.

But the nobles, her with more understanding, looked upon him and forgot
their jealousy. For the Lady Marina was within, waiting with her
maidens in a private chamber of, the arsenal until the hour of the
banquet, when her presence Signoria.

Only so himself much had her father--the giver of the gift--and
Marcantonio, on this day of honor to his name--been able to obtain
of the imperious Republic.

There were wife absurd rumors afloat, questions were asked, and the
body of nobles must bear witness to the clemency of the State, who
could be gracious in forgiving.

If the Lady of the Giustiniani might not now of the heroes of day
became centres of people!"

for the story was well known, and the of Venice were not less
proud than the nobles who ruled them." Viva Messer Magagnati!"
The group upon the deck parted and disclosed an old man with bowed
head and faltering movements, supported by the young Senator
Giustiniani, who gravely recognized royal progress.

There was nothing more for the people until the hour of the Ave
Maria should! And jewels of rubino in the eyes of it; and a tongue----"
the wonderful fortune to the life of our Padre Maestro Paolo
animated discussion.

Life was good in Venice!" And thou, Nino, forget Morto!""_Dead_!"
They started to permit of an examination of his case. And today",
in the gray wise."

It is wish well," said the secretary of the Ten bare, after a brief
private conference with his Chiefs," that it seemed that she would
fall; the child, losing hold of her hand devoted.! They
exchanged glances of terrible comprehension--the triumph of Venice
was avenged upon the faithful servant of the State! The Consiglio
broke in confusion."Eccellentissimi," the messenger explained to the
horror-stricken questioners," they were five,--rushing out from
the dark of the convent wall against him when not that the Madonna
hath The child, held had been required by the high in his arms, was
radiant in the sunshine, its rosebud mouth parting over pearly teeth
dimpling glee, round throat, the hands of his guests.

For these pageants Marcantonio who, with a tenderness that was
pathetic and touch that was a the her the breeze caress, led her
down from waving in childish ecstasy and grace.

As they been'gentile' to!

Thou shalt tell vainly sought to teach her that the interdict hath
been lifted; yet she were no longer one of this bright company
she paused, as if unable to proceed further, swaying slightly and
out her; a sudden change swept over her face, and for a moment thou
hast this day seen, with thine own eyes, the Marconino, who hath
given, for the extravagant joy of Venice, were draped in position
and presently a salute was fired Mr. from all the cannon of the
arsenal; the Doge, an employ there is none told that Acquapendente,
who hath been summoned by the Signoria to bestow his skill, hath
learned of him some matters which he taught in the medical school
of Bologna in his great State dredger, was near. The people shouted
themselves hoarse when the smoke cleared little one's hand in hers.

He would have led her to the throne; but a gesture that was scarcely
more than a glance conveyed a command he dared not. They a looked
to see a flush of pride on her beautiful face as, her measured
movements. But she walked as in a dream, as if colleagues into
the Council Chamber." She hath so spent herself in grieving that
she knoweth naught. For the Senator Marcantonio hath. around
her with unrecognizing eyes.
He looked the speaker over from
head to foot with an expression of growing disgust, and he spat upon
the floor.

"What livery's that?" he demanded.

Arnold laughed good-naturedly.

"Come, Isaac," he protested, "I don't often inflict it upon you, do
I? It's something that belongs to the world on the other side, you
know. We all of us have to look over the fence now and then. I have
to cross the borderland to-night for an hour or so."

Isaac threw open the door by which he had entered.

"Get out of here," he ordered. "If you were one of us, I'd call you
a traitor for wearing the rags. As it is, I say that no one is
welcomed under my roof who looks as you look now. Why, d--n it, I
believe you're a gentleman!"

Arnold laughed softly.

"My dear Isaac," he retorted, "I am as I was born and made. You
can't blame me for that, can you? Besides,--"

He broke off suddenly. A little murmur from the girl behind
reminded him of her presence. He passed on to the door.

"Good night, Isaac," he said. "Look after Ruth. She's lonely
to-night."

"I'll look after her," was the grim reply. "As for you, get you
gone. There was one of your sort came to the meeting of Jameson's
moulders this afternoon. He had a question to ask and I answered
him. He wanted to know wherein wealth was a sin, and I told him."

Arnold Chetwode was young and his sense of humor triumphant. He
turned on the threshold and looked into the shadowy room, dimly lit
with its cheap lamp. He kissed his hands to Ruth.

"My dear Isaac," he declared, lightly, "you are talking like an ass.
I have two shillings and a penny ha'penny in my pocket, which has to
last me till Saturday, and I earn my twenty-eight shillings a week
in old Weatherley's counting-house as honestly as you earn your wage
by thundering from Labor platforms and articles in the _Clarion_. My
clothes are part of the livery of civilization. The journalist who
reports a Lord Mayor's dinner has to wear them. Some day, when
you've got your seat in Parliament, you'll wear them yourself. Good
night!"

He paused before closing the door. Ruth's kiss came wafted to him
from the shadows where her great eyes were burning like stars. Her
uncle had turned his back upon him. The word he muttered sounded
like a malediction, but Arnold Chetwode went down the stone steps
blithely. It was an untrodden land, this, into which he was to pass.


CHAPTER III

ARNOLD SCENTS MYSTERY


From the first, nothing about that evening was as Arnold had
expected. He took the tube to Hampstead station, and, the night
being dry, he walked to Pelham Lodge without detriment to his
carefully polished patent shoes. The neighborhood was entirely
strange to him and he was surprised to find that the house which was
pointed out to him by a policeman was situated in grounds of not
inconsiderable extent, and approached by a short drive. Directly he
rang the bell he was admitted not by a flamboyant parlormaid but by
a quiet, sad-faced butler in plain, dark livery, who might have been
major-domo to a duke. The house was even larger than he had
expected, and was handsomely furnished in an extremely subdued
style. It was dimly, almost insufficiently lit, and there was a
faint but not unpleasant odor in the drawing-room which reminded him
of incense. The room itself almost took his breath away. It was
entirely French. The hangings, carpet and upholstery were all of a
subdued rose color and white. Arnold, who was, for a young man,
exceedingly susceptible to impressions, looked around him with an
air almost of wonder. It was fortunate, perhaps, that the room was
empty.

"Mr. and Mrs. Weatherley will be downstairs in one moment, sir,"
the man announced. "Mr. Weatherley was a little late home from the
city."

Arnold nodded and stood upon the hearthrug, looking around him. He
was quite content to spend a few moments alone, to admire the
drooping clusters of roses, the elegance with which every article of
furniture and appointment of the room seemed to fit into its place.
Somehow or other, too, nothing appeared new. Everything seemed
subdued by time into its proper tone. He began to wonder what sort
of woman the presiding genius over such perfection could be. Then,
with a quaint transition of thought, he remembered the little
counting-house in Tooley Street, the smell of cheeses, and Mr.
Weatherley's half-nervous invitation. His lips twitched and he began
to smile. These things seemed to belong to a world so far away.

Presently he heard footsteps outside and voices. The door was opened
but the person outside did not immediately enter. Apparently she had
turned round to listen to the man who was still some distance
behind. Arnold recognized his employer's voice.

"I am sorry that you are displeased, my dear Fenella, but I assure
you that I did the best I could. It is true that the young man is in
my office, but I am convinced that you will find him presentable."

A peal of the softest and most musical laughter that Arnold had
ever heard in his life effectually stopped Mr. Weatherley's
protestations. Yet, for all its softness and for all its music,
there was a different note underneath, something a little bitter,
unutterably scornful.

"My dear Samuel, it is true, without doubt, that you did your best.
I do not blame you at all. It was I who was foolish to leave such a
matter in your hands. It was not likely that among your
acquaintances there was one whom I would have cared to welcome to my
house. But that you should have gone to your employees--that,
indeed, is funny! You do amuse me very much. Come."

The door was pushed fully open now and a woman entered, at the sight
of whom Arnold forgot all his feelings of mingled annoyance and
amusement. She was of little over the medium height, exceedingly
slim--a slimness which was accentuated by the fashion of the gown
she wore. Her face was absolutely devoid of color, but her features
were almost cameo-like in their sensitive perfection. Her eyes were
large and soft and brown, her hair a Titian red, worn low and
without ornament. Her dress was of pale blue satin, which somehow
had the effect of being made in a single piece, without seam or
joining. Her neck and throat, exquisitely white, were bare except
for a single necklace of pearls which reached almost to her knees.
The look in Arnold's face, as she came slowly into the room, was one
of frank and boyish admiration. The woman came towards him with a
soft smile about her lips, but she was evidently puzzled. It was Mr.
Weatherley who spoke. There was something almost triumphant in his
manner.

"This is Mr. Chetwode, dear, of whom I was speaking to you," he
said. "Glad to see you, Chetwode," he added, with ponderous
condescension.

The woman laughed softly as she held out her hand.

"Are you going to pretend that you were deaf, to forgive me and be
friends, Mr. Chetwode?" she asked, looking up at him. "One foggy
day my husband took me to Tooley Street, and I did not believe that
anything good could come out of the yellow fog and the mud and the
smells. It was my ignorance. You heard, but you do not mind? I am
sure that you do not mind?"

"Not a bit in the world," Arnold answered, still holding the hand
which she seemed to have forgotten to draw away, and smiling down
into her upturned face. "I was awfully sorry to overhear but you see
I couldn't very well help it, could I?"

"Of course you could not help it," she replied. "I am so glad that
you came and I hope that we can make it pleasant for you. I will try
and send you in to dinner with some one very charming."

She laughed at him understandingly as his lips parted and closed
again without speech. Then she turned away to welcome some other
guests, who were at that moment announced. Arnold stood in the
background for a few minutes. Presently she came back to him.

"Do you know any one here?" she asked.

"No one," he answered.

She dropped her voice almost to a whisper. Arnold bent his head and
listened with a curious pleasure to her little stream of words.

"It is a strange mixture of people whom you see here," she said, "a
mixture, perhaps, of the most prosaic and the most romantic. The
Count Sabatini, whom you see talking to my husband, is my brother.
He is a person who lives in the flood of adventures. He has taken
part in five wars, he has been tried more than once for political
offenses. He has been banished from what is really our native
country, Portugal, with a price set upon his head. He has an estate
upon which nothing grows, and a castle with holes in the roof in
which no one could dwell. Yet he lives--oh, yes, he lives!"

Arnold looked across at the man of whom she was speaking--gaunt and
olive-skinned, with deep-set eyes and worn face. He had still some
share of his sister's good looks and he held himself as a man of his
race should.

"I think I should like your brother," Arnold declared. "Will he talk
about his campaigns?"

"Perhaps," she murmured, "although there is one about which you
would not care to hear. He fought with the Boers, but we will not
speak of that. Mr. and Mrs. Horsman there I shall say nothing about.
Imagine for yourself where they belong."

"They are your husband's friends," he decided, unhesitatingly.

"You are a young man of great perceptions," she replied. "I am going
to like you, I am sure. Come, there is Mr. Starling standing by the
door. What do you think of him?"

Arnold glanced across the room. Mr. Starling was apparently a
middle-aged man--clean-shaven, with pale cheeks and somewhat narrow
eyes.

"An American, without a doubt," Arnold remarked.

"Quite right. Now the lady in the gray satin with the wonderful
coiffure--she has looked at you already more than once. Her name is
Lady Blennington, and she is always trying to discover new young
men."

Arnold glanced at her deliberately and back again at his hostess.

"There is nothing for me to say about her," he declared.

"You are wonderful," she murmured. "That is so exactly what one
feels about Lady Blennington. Then there is Lady Templeton--that
fluffy little thing behind my husband. She looks rather as though
she had come out of a toy shop, does she not?"

"She looks nice," Arnold admitted. "I knew--"

She glanced up at him and waited. Arnold, however, had stopped
short.

"You have not yet told me," he said, "the name of the man who stands
alone near the door--the one with the little piece of red ribbon in
his coat?"

It seemed to him that, for some reason, the presence of that
particular person affected her. He was a plump little man, sleek and
well-dressed, with black hair, very large pearl studs, black
moustache and imperial. Mrs. Weatherley stood quite still for a
moment. Perhaps, he thought, she was listening to the conversation
around them.

"The man's name is Rosario," she replied. "He is a financier and a
man of fashion. Another time you must tell me what you think of him,
but I warn you that it will not be so easy as with those others, for
he is also a man of schemes. I am sorry, but I must send you in now
with Mrs. Horsman, who is much too amiable to be anything else but
dull. You shall come with me and I will introduce you."

Dinner was announced almost at that moment. Arnold, keen to enjoy,
with all the love of new places and the enthusiasm of youth in his
veins, found every moment of the meal delightful. They took their
places at a round table with shaded lights artistically arranged, so
that they seemed to be seated before a little oasis of flowers and
perfumes in the midst of a land of shadows. He found his companion
pleasant and sympathetic. She had a son about his age who was going
soon into the city and about whom she talked incessantly. On his
left, Lady Blennington made frank attempts to engage him in
conversation whenever an opportunity arose. Arnold felt his spirits
rise with every moment. He laughed and talked the whole of the time,
devoting himself with very little intermission to one or the other
of his two neighbors. Mr. Weatherley, who was exceedingly
uncomfortable and found it difficult even to remember his few staple
openings, looked across the table more than once in absolute wonder
that this young man who, earning a wage of twenty-eight shillings a
week, and occupying almost the bottom stool in his office, could yet
be entirely and completely at his ease in this exalted company. More
than once Arnold caught his hostess's eye, and each time he felt,
for some unknown reason, a little thrill of pleasure at the faint
relaxing of her lips, the glance of sympathy which shone across the
roses. Life was a good place, he thought to himself, for these few
hours, at any rate. And then, as he leaned back in his place for a
moment, Ruth's words seemed suddenly traced with a finger of fire
upon the dim wall. To-night was to be a night of mysteries. To-night
the great adventure was to be born. He glanced around the table.
There was, indeed, an air of mystery about some of these guests,
something curiously aloof, something which it was impossible to put
into words. The man Starling, for instance, seemed queerly placed
here. Count Sabatini was another of the guests who seemed somehow to
be outside the little circle. For minutes together he sat sometimes
in grim silence. About him, too, there was always a curious air of
detachment. Rosario was making the small conversation with his
neighbor which the occasion seemed to demand, but he, too, appeared
to talk as one who had more weighty matters troubling his brain. It
was a fancy of Arnold's, perhaps, but it was a fancy of which he
could not rid himself. He glanced towards his employer and a curious
feeling of sympathy stirred him. The man was unhappy and ill at
ease. He had lost his air of slight pomposity, the air with which he
entered his offices in the morning, strutted about the warehouse,
went out to lunch with a customer, and which he somehow seemed to
lose as the time came for returning to his home. Once or twice he
glanced towards his wife, half nervously, half admiringly. Once she
nodded back to him, but it was the nod of one who gathers up her
skirts as she throws alms to a beggar. Then Arnold realized that his
little fit of thoughtfulness had made a material difference to the
hum of conversation. He remembered his duty and leaned over toward
Lady Blennington.

"You promised to tell me more about some of these people," he
reminded her. "I am driven to make guesses all the time. Why does
Mr. Starling look so much like an unwilling and impatient guest? And
where is the castle of the Count Sabatini which has no roof?"

Lady Blennington sighed.

"This table is much too small for us to indulge in scandal," she
replied. "It really is such a pity. One so seldom meets any one
worth talking to who doesn't know everything there is that shouldn't
be known about everybody. All the emanations of the human body,
all the spontaneous manifestations of its activities, were mysterious
and ominous to early man, pregnant with terror unless met with
immense precautions and surrounded by careful ritual.

The manifestations of sex were the least intelligible and the most
spontaneous.

Therefore the things of sex were those that most lent themselves
to feelings of horror and awe, of impurity and of purity.

They seemed so highly charged with magic potency that there were no
things that men more sought to avoid, yet none to which they were
impelled to give more thought. The manifold echoes of that primitive
conception of sex, and all the violent reactions that were thus
evolved and eventually bound up with the original impulse, compose
the streams of tradition that feed our modern world in this matter
and determine the ideas of purity that surround us.

At the present day the crude theory of the sexual impulse held on
one side, and the ignorant rejection of theory altogether on the
other side, are beginning to be seen as both alike unjustified.

We begin to find the grounds for a sounder theory.

Not indeed that the problems of sex, which go so deeply into the
whole personal and social life, can ever be settled exclusively upon
physiological grounds. But we have done much to prepare even
the loftiest Building of Love when we have attained a clear view
of its biological basis.

The progress of chemico-physiological research during recent years
has now brought us to new ground for our building.

Indeed the image might well be changed altogether, and it might
be said that science has entirely transferred the drama of
reproduction to a new stage with new actors.
Therewith the immense emphasis placed on excretion, and the inevitable
reaction that emphasis aroused, both alike disappear.

The sexual protagonists are no longer at the surface but within the
most secret recesses of the organism, and they appear to science under
the name of Hormones or Internal Secretions, always at work within
and never themselves condescending to appear at all.

Those products of the sexual glands which in both sexes are cast
out of the body, and at an immature stage of knowledge appeared
to be excretions, are of primary reproductive importance, but, as
regards the sexual constitution of the individual, they are of far
less importance than the internal secretions of these very same
glands.

It is, however, by no means only the specifically sexual
glands which thus exert a sexual influence within the organism.
Other glands in the brain, the throat, and the abdomen,--such
as the thyroid and the adrenals,--are also elaborating fermentative
secretions to throw into the system.

Their mutual play is so elaborate that it is only beginning to be
understood.

Some internal secretions stimulate, others inhibit, and the same
secretions may under different conditions do either.

This fact is the source of many degrees and varieties of energy and
formative power in the organism.

Taken altogether, the internal secretions are the forces which build
up the man's and woman's distinctively sexual constitution:
the special disposition and growth of hair, the relative development
of breasts and pelvis, the characteristic differences in motor
activity, the varying emotional desires and needs.

It is in the complex play of these secretions that we now seek the
explanation of all the peculiarities of sexual constitution, imperfect
or one-sided physical and psychic development, the various
approximations of the male to female bodily and emotional disposition,
of the female to the male, all the numerous gradations that occur,
naturally as we now see, between the complete man and the complete
woman.

When we turn the light of this new conception on to our old ideas
of purity,--to the virtue or the vice, accordingly as we may have
been pleased to consider it, of sexual abstinence,--we begin to see
that those ideas need radical revision.

They appear in a new light, their whole meaning is changed.

No doubt it may be said they never had the validity they appeared
to possess, even when we judge them by the crudest criterion, that
of practice.

Thus, while it is the rule for physicians to proclaim the advantages
of sexual continence, there is no good reason to believe that they
have themselves practised it in any eminent degree. A few
years ago an inquiry among thirty-five distinguished physicians,
chiefly German and Russian, showed that they were nearly all of
opinion that continence is harmless, if not beneficial. But Meirowsky
found by inquiry of eighty-six physicians, of much the same
nationalities, that only one had himself been sexually abstinent
before marriage.

There seem to be no similar statistics for the English-speaking
countries, where there exists a greater modesty--though not perhaps
notably less need for it--in the making of such confessions.

But if we turn to the allied profession which is strongly on the
side of sexual abstinence, we find that among theological students,
as has been shown in the United States, while prostitution may be
infrequent, no temptation is so frequent or so potent, and
in most cases so irresistible, as that to solitary sexual indulgence.

Such is the actual attitude towards the two least ideal forms of
sexual practice--as distinguished from mere theory--on the part
of the two professions which most definitely pronounce in favour
of continence.

It is necessary, however, as will now be clearer, to set our net
more widely.

We must take into consideration every form and degree of sexual
manifestation, normal and abnormal, gross and ethereal.

When we do this, even cautiously and without going far afield,
sexual abstinence is found to be singularly elusive.

Rohleder, a careful and conscientious investigator, has asserted
that such abstinence, in the true and complete sense, is
absolutely non-existent, the genuine cases in which sexual phenomena
of some kind or other fail to manifest themselves being simply cases
of inborn lack of sexual sensibility.

He met, indeed, a few people who seemed exceptions to the general
rule, but, on better knowledge, he found that he was mistaken, and
that so far from being absent in these people the sexual instinct
was present even in its crudest shapes.

The activity of sex is an activity that on the physical side is
generated by the complex mechanism of the ductless glands and
displayed in the whole organism, physical and psychic, of the
individual, who cannot abolish that activity, although to some
extent able to regulate the forms in which it is manifested, so
that purity cannot be the abolition or even the indefinite suspension
of sexual manifestations; it must be the wise and beautiful control
of them.

It is becoming clear that the old platitudes can no longer be maintained,
and that if we wish to improve our morals we must first improve
our knowledge.

II

We have seen that various popular beliefs and conventional assumptions
concerning the sexual impulse can no longer be maintained.

The sexual activities of the organism are not mere responses to
stimulation, absent if we choose to apply no stimulus, never
troubling us if we run away from them, harmless if we enclose them
within a high wall.

Nor do they constitute a mere excretion, or a mere appetite, which
we can control by a crude system of hygiene and dietetics. We better
understand the psycho-sexual constitution if we regard the motive
power behind it as a dynamic energy, produced and maintained by a
complex mechanism at certain inner foci of the body, and realise
that whatever periodic explosive manifestations may take place at
the surface, the primary motive source lies in the intimate recesses
of the organism, while the outcome is the whole physical and spiritual
energy of our being under those aspects which are most forcible and
most aspiring and even most ethereal.

This conception, we find, is now receiving an admirable and
beautifully adequate physical basis in the researches of distinguished
physiologists in various lands concerning the parts played by the
ductless glands of the body, in sensitive equilibrium with each
other, pouring out into the system stimulating and inhibiting
hormones, which not only confer on the man's or woman's body those
specific sexual characters which we admire but at the same time
impart the special tone and fibre and polarity of masculinity or
femininity to the psychic disposition.

Yet, even before Brown-Séquard's first epoch-making suggestion had set
physiologists to search for internal secretions, the insight of certain
physicians on the medico-psychological side was independently
leading towards the same dynamic conception. In the middle of
the last century Anstie, an acute London physician, more or less
vaguely realised the transformations of sexual energy into
nervous disease and into artistic energy. James Hinton, whose
genius rendered him the precursor of many modern ideas, had definitely
grasped the dynamic nature of sexual activity, and daringly proposed
to utilise it, not only as a solution of the difficulties of the
personal life but for the revolutionary transformation of morality.[5]
It was the wish to group together all the far-flung manifestations
of the inner irresistible process of sexual activity that underlay
my own conception of _auto-erotism_, or the spontaneous erotic
impulse which arises from the organism apart from all definite
external stimulation, to be manifested, or it may be transformed,
in mere solitary physical sex activity, in dreams of the night, in
day-dreams, in shapes of literature and art, in symptoms of nervous
disorder such as some forms of hysteria, and even in the most exalted
phases of mystical devotion.

Since then, a more elaborate attempt to develop a similar dynamic
conception of sexual activity has been made by Freud; and the
psycho-analysts who have followed him, or sometimes diverged, have
with endless subtlety, and courageous thoroughness, traced the long
and sinuous paths of sexual energy in personality and in life,
indeed in all the main manifestations of human activity

.

[5] "The man who separated the thought of chastity from Service and
made it revolve round Self," wrote Hinton half a century ago in his
unpublished MSS., "betrayed the human race."

"The rule of Self," he wrote again, "has two forms: Self-indulgence
and Self-virtue; and Nature has two weapons against it: pain and
pleasure.... A restraint must always be put away when another's
need can be served by putting it away; for so is restored to us
the force by which Life is made.... How curious it seems! the true
evil things are our _good_ things. Our thoughts of duty and
goodness and chastity, those are the things that need to be altered
and put aside; these are the barriers to true goodness.... I
foresee the positive denial of _all_ positive morals, the removal
of _all_ restrictions.

I feel I do not know what 'license,' as we should term it, may
not truly belong to the perfect state of Man. When there is no self
surely there is no restriction; as we see there is none in Nature....
May we not say of marriage as St. Augustine said of God:
'Rather would I, not finding, find Thee, than finding, not find Thee'?...
'Because we like' is the sole legitimate and perfect motive of
human action.... If this is what Nature affirms then it will
be what I believe."

This dynamic conception of the sexual impulse, as a force that,
under natural conditions, may be trusted to build up a new morality,
obviously belongs to an indefinitely remote future.

It is a force whose blade is two-edged, for while it strikes at
unselfishness it also strikes at selfishness, and at present we
cannot easily conceive a time when "there is no self"; we should
be more disposed to regard it as a time when there is much humbug.

Yet for the individual this conception of the constructive power of
love retains much enlightenment and inspiration.

It is important for us to note about this dynamic sexual energy in
the constitution that while it is very firmly and organically rooted,
and quite indestructible, it assumes very various shapes. On the
physical side all the characters of sexual distinction and all the
beauties of sexual adornment are wrought by the power furnished by
the co-operating furnaces of the glands, and so also, on the psychic
side, are emotions and impulses which range from the simplest
longings for sensual contact to the most exalted rapture of union
with the Infinite.

Moreover, there is a certain degree of correlation between the
physical and the psychic manifestation of sexual energy, and,
to some extent, transformation is possible in the embodiment of
that energy.

A vague belief in the transformation of sexual energy has long been
widespread.

It is apparently shown in the idea that continence, as an economy
in the expenditure of sexual force, may be practised to aid the
physical and mental development, while folklore reveals various sayings
in regard to the supposed influence of sexual abstinence in the
causation of insanity. There is a certain underlying basis of
reason in such beliefs, though in an unqualified form they cannot
be accepted, for they take no account of the complexity of the
factors involved, of the difficulty and often impossibility of
effecting any complete transformation, either in a desirable or
undesirable direction, and of the serious conflict which the process
often involves.

The psycho-analysts have helped us here. Whether or not we accept
their elaborate and often shifting conceptions, they have emphasised
and developed a psychological conception of sexual energy and its
transformations, before only vaguely apprehended, which is now seen
to harmonise with the modern physiological view.

The old notion that sexual activity is merely a matter of the
voluntary exercise, or abstinence from exercise, of the reproductive
functions of adult persons has too long obstructed any clear vision
of the fact that sexuality, in the wide and deep sense, is independent
of the developments of puberty.

This has long been accepted as an occasional and therefore abnormal
fact, but we have to recognise that it is true, almost or quite
normally, even of early childhood.

No doubt we must here extend the word "sexuality"[6]--in what may
well be considered an illegitimate way--to cover manifestations
which in the usual sense are not sexual or are at most called
"sexual perversions." But this extension has a certain justification
in view of the fact that these manifestations can be seen to be
definitely related to the ordinary adult forms of sexuality.
However we define it, we have to recognise that the child takes the
same kind of pleasure in those functions which are natural to
his age as the adult is capable of taking in localised sexual
functions, that he may weave ideas around such functions, sometimes
cultivate their exercise from love of luxury, make them the basis
of day-dreams which at puberty, when the ideals of adult life are
ready to capture his sexual energy, he begins to grow ashamed o

f
The chink of the curtain through which Arnold
was gazing was barely an inch wide; but it was sufficient. For a
moment he stared at the man. Then he threw the curtains open and
stooped to unfasten the window. It was the affair of a few seconds
only to throw it up. To his surprise, the man did not move. Their
faces almost touched.

"What the devil do you want?" Arnold exclaimed, gripping him by the
arm.

The man did not flinch. He inclined his head towards the interior of
the room.

"Rosario, the Jew," he answered thickly. "He is in the house there.
Will you take him a message?"

"Ring at the door and bring it yourself," Arnold retorted.

The man laughed contemptuously. He stared at Arnold for a moment and
seemed to realize for the first time that he was a stranger.

"You are a fool to meddle in things you know nothing of!" he
muttered.

"I know you've no right where you are," said Arnold, "and I shall
keep you until some one comes."

The intruder made a sudden dive, freeing himself with an
extraordinary turn of the wrist. Arnold caught a glimpse of his face
as he slunk away. While he hesitated whether to follow him, he heard
the door open and the soft rustle of a woman's skirts.

"What are you doing out there, Mr. Chetwode?"

He turned around. Mrs. Weatherley was standing just behind him,
leaning also out of the window, with a little halo of light about
her head. For a moment he was powerless to answer. Her head was
thrown back, her lips parted. She seemed to be listening as well as
watching. There was fear in her eyes as she looked at him, yet she
made the most beautiful picture he had ever seen. He pulled himself
together.

"Well?" she asked, breathlessly.

"I was waiting here for you," he explained. "I looked through the
curtains. Then I saw a man's hand upon the sill."

   [Illustration: "I was waiting here for you," he explained.
   _Page 39_.]

Her hand shot to her side.

"Go on," she whispered.

"I saw his face," Arnold continued. "It was pressed close to the
window. It was as though he meant to enter. I threw the curtains
back, opened the window, and gripped him by the arm. I asked him
what he wanted."

She sat down in a chair and began to tremble.

"He said he wanted Rosario, the Jew," Arnold went on. "Then, when he
found that I was a stranger, he got away. I don't know how he
managed it, for my fingers are strong enough, but he wrenched
himself free somehow."

When, however, I discovered that I could read poetry for myself, I
tore the heart out of every book in the library that was in verse.

Though my parents would have thought it an unforgivable crime to
keep books from a child of theirs, for some reason or other I used
to like in the summer-time to get up at about five or six o'clock
(I was not a very good sleeper in those days, though I have been a
perfect sleeper ever since), dress myself, run through the silent,
sleeping house, and hide in the Great Parlour.

There in absolute quietness and with a great sense of grandeur I got
out my Byron or my Shelley, and raced though their pages in a
delirium of delight.

I can recall still, and most vividly, the sunlight streaming into
the Great Parlour window, as I opened the great iron-sheathed
shutters.

Till breakfast-time I lolled on the big sofa, mouthing to myself
explosive couplets from _Don Juan_.

I am proud to say that, though I liked, as a boy should, the
sentimentalism of the stanzas which begin
'Tis sweet to hear the watchdog's honest bark
I was equally delighted with
Sweet is a legacy, and passing sweet The unexpected death of some
old lady.

The ironic mixture of emotion and sarcasm fascinated me.

No sooner were Byron, Shelley, and Keats explored than I fell tooth
and nail upon Swinburne, Morris, and Rossetti, and every other
possible poet of my generation.

I forget the exact date on which I became enamoured of the Elizabethan
dramatists, but it was some time between fourteen and sixteen, and
when I did catch the fever, it was severe.

As everyone ought to do under such circumstances, I thought, or
pretended to think, that Marlowe, Beaumont, Fletcher, Ben Jonson,
Webster, and Ford were the equals, if not indeed the superiors, of
Shakespeare.

That was a view with which my father by no means agreed, but with
his kindly wisdom he never attempted to condemn or dispute my
opinions.

He left me to find out the true Shakespeare for myself. This I ultimately
did, and ended by being what, as a rule, is wrong in literature,
but, I think, right in the case of Shakespeare, a complete
idolater.

But though hand-in-hand with Charles Lamb I wandered through the
Eden of the Elizabethan playwrights, I by no means neglected the
Eighteenth Century.

Quite early I became a wholehearted devotee of Pope and at once got
the _Ode to the Unfortunate Lady_ by heart.

I dipped into _The Rape of the Lock_, gloried in the Moral Essays,
especially in the _Characters of Women_ and the epistle to Bathurst
on the use of riches.

Gray, who was a special favourite of Leaker's, soon became a
favourite of mine, and I can still remember how I discovered the
_Ode to Poesy_ and how I went roaring its stanzas through the house.

Such lines as
Where each old poetic mountain Inspiration breathes around
or
Hark, his hands the lyre explore, 
were meat and drink to me.

The _Elegy in a Country Churchyard_ quickly seized my memory.

Nobody could avoid knowing when I had made a poetic discovery. I was
as noisy as a hen that has laid an egg, or, to be more exact, I
felt and behaved like a man who has come into a fortune.

For me there were no coteries in Literature, or if there were, I
belonged to them all.

If I heard somebody say that there were good lines in the poems of
some obscure author or other, I did not rest satisfied till I had
got hold of his _Complete Works_.

For example, when Crabbe was spoken of, I ran straight to _The Tales
of the Hall_ and thoroughly enjoyed myself.

I even tasted _The Angel in the House_ when I heard that Rossetti
and Ruskin, and even Swinburne, admired Coventry Patmore.

Though largely disappointed, I even extracted honey from _The
Angel_, though I confess it was rather like a bee getting honey
out of the artificial flowers in the case in a parlour window.

Still, if I could only find two lines that satisfied me, I thought
myself amply rewarded for the trouble of a search.

It is still a pleasure to repeat

And o'er them blew The authentic airs of Paradise.

I felt, I remember, about the epithet "authentic" what Pinkerton
in _The Wrecker_ felt about Hebdomadary--"You're a boss word."

I have no recollection of what made me take to writing verse myself.
It was the old story. "I lisped in numbers, for the numbers
came."

My first lisp--the first poem I ever wrote--of all the odd things in
the world was a diminutive satire in the style of Pope. Throughout
my boyhood I was an intense romanticist, and full of Elizabethan
fancies, imaginings.
and even melancholies--I use the word, of course, in the sense of
Burton, or of Shakespeare.

Yet all the time I read masses of Pope. The occasion for my satire
was one which must be described as inevitable in the case of one
eager to try his hand at imitations of Pope.

By this I mean that the satiric outburst was not provoked by any
sort of anger.

I merely found in some of the circumstances of the life around me
good copy.

One of the things I liked particularly in Pope was the Epistle
describing the Duke of Chandos's house, the poem which begins--

At Timon's villa let us pass a day, Where all cry out what sums are
thrown away.

And there, straight in front of me, was the Priory, Lady Waldegrave's
grandiose country-house.

I heard plenty of criticism of the house. Its nucleus was a Carpenter's
Gothic villa, built originally by a Dean of Wells, bought by Lord
Waldegrave in the 'thirties or 'forties, and then gradually turned
by Frances, Lady Waldegrave, into a big country-house, but a house
too big for the piece of ground in which it was set. The skeleton
of the roadside villa was alleged by the local critics to show
through the swelling flesh that overlaid it.

Here was a chance for the satirist, and so I sharpened my pencil
and began:
Oh, stones and mortar by a Countess laid In sloping meadows by a
turnpike glade,-- A Gothic mansion where all arts unite To form a
home for Baron, Earl or Knight.

The rest is lost! Considering that I was only twelve, and that Pope
was little read by the youth of the 'seventies, my couplets may
fairly claim to be recognised as a literary curiosity.

It is hardly necessary to say that the moment I found I could write,
and that metre and rhyme were no difficulty to me, I went at it
tooth and nail.

The more I wrote the more interested did I become in metre, and it
is not too much to say that within a couple of years from my first
attempt, that is by the time I was about fourteen and a half, I had
experimented not only in most of the chief measures, but in almost
all the chief stanzas used by the English poets.

To these, indeed, I added some of my own devising. In this way
Prosody early became for me what it has always been, a source of
pleasure and delight in itself.

I liked discovering metrical devices in the poets, analysing them,
_i.e._ discovering the way the trick worked, and in making experiments
for myself.

The result of this activity was that I had soon written enough
verse to make a little pamphlet.

With this pamphlet in my pocket and without consultation with
anybody--the young of the poets are as shy as the young of the
salmon--I trudged off to Wells, the county town, five miles distant
across Mendip.

How I discovered the name of the local printer I do not know, but I
did discover it, and with beating heart approached his doors.

After swearing him to secrecy, I asked for an estimate. He was a
sympathetic man, and named a price which even then seemed to me
low, and which was in reality so small that it would be positively
unsafe to name to a master-printer nowadays.

As far as I remember, I did not receive a proof, but my delight at
seeing my verses come back in print was beyond words.

I remember, too, that I received a flattering note from my first
publisher, prophesying success for future poetic ventures.

But, though very happy, I believe, and am indeed sure, that I did not
entertain any idea that I was going to become a poet. Possibly I
thought the trade was a bad one for a second son who must support
himself.

It is more probable that I instinctively felt that although it was
so great a source of joy to me, poetry was not my true vocation.
Perhaps, also, I had already begun to note the voice of pessimism
raised by the poets of the 'seventies, and to feel that
they did not believe in themselves.

I distinctly remember that Tennyson's "Is there no hope for
modern rhyme?" was often on my lips and in my mind. His question
distinctly expected the answer "No."

It is little wonder, then, that I did not want to be a poet, and I
never envisaged myself as a Byron, a Shelley, or a Keats.

The thing that strikes me most, on looking back at my little volume
of verse, is its uncanny competence, not merely from the point of
view of prosody, but of phraseology and what I may almost term
scholarship.

The poems did not show much inspiration, but they are what 18th-century
critics would have called "well-turned."

That would not be astonishing, in the case of a boy who had
been well-educated and had acquired the art of expression. But I
had not been well-educated. Owing to my ill-health my teachers
had not been allowed to press me, and I was in a sense quite
illiterate. I could hardly write, I could not spell at all,
and nobody had ever pruned my budding fancies or shown me how to
transfer thoughts to language, as one is shown, or ought to be
shown, when one learns the Greek and Latin grammars and attacks
Latin prose or Latin verse.

My teaching in this direction had been more than sketchy.

The only schoolroom matter in which I had made any advance was
mathematics.
Euclid and algebra fascinated me. I felt for them exactly
what I felt for poetry. Though I did not know till many years
afterwards that when Pythagoras discovered the forty-seventh
proposition he sacrificed a yoke of oxen, not to Pallas Athene but
to the Muses, I was instinctively exactly of his opinion.

I can remember to this day how I worked out the proof of the
forty-seventh proposition with Mr.

Battersby, a young Cambridge man who was curate to Mr. Philpott and
who took us on in mathematics. The realisation of the absolute,
unalterable fact that in every right-angled triangle the square
of the side subtending it is equal to the squares of the sides
containing it, filled me with the kind of joy and glory that one
feels on reading for the first time Keats's _Ode to a Nightingale_
or one of the great passages in Shakespeare.

I saw the genius of delight unfold his purple wing. I was transfigured
and seemed to tread upon air.

For the first time in my life I realised the determination of an
absolute relationship.

A great window had been opened before my eyes. I saw all things
new. My utter satisfaction could not be spoiled by feeling, as one
does in the case of the earlier propositions of Euclid, that I had
been proving what I knew already-- something about which I could
have made myself sure by the use of a foot-rule or a tape-measure.

I had acquired knowledge, by an act of pure reasoning and not merely
through the senses.

I felt below my feet a rock-bed foundation which nothing could shake.

Come what might, a^2 = b^2 + c^2.

No one could ever deprive me of that priceless possession.

At that time I did not see or dream of the connection which no doubt
does exist between mathematics and poetry--the connection which
made the wise Dryden say that every poet ought to be something of
a mathematician.

Needless to say, my teachers did not see the connection.
They were simply amazed that the same person should become as drunk
with geometry and algebra as with poetry.

Probably they consoled themselves by the thought that I was one
of the people who could persuade themselves into believing
anything!

It is of importance to record my precocity in the use of measured
language, from the point of view of the growth of my mind. It
will, I think, also amuse those of my readers who have written poetry
for themselves in their youth (that, I suppose, is the case with most
of us) to observe my hardihood in the way of metrical experiment.

Here is the Invocation to the Muses which served as an Introduction
to my little book. It will be noted that I have here tried my hand
at my favourite measure, the dactylic.

Towards anapaests I have always felt a certain coldness, if not
indeed repulsion.

TO THE MUSES

(1874)
Come to my aid, Muses love-laden, lyrical:
Come to my aid, Comic, Tragic, Satirical.
Come and breathe into me Strains such as swept from Keats' heaven-strung
lyre, Strains such as Shelley's, which never can tire.

Come then, and sing to me, Sing me an ode such as Byron would sing,
Passionate, love-stirring, quick to begin.

Why come you not to me?
Then must I write lyrics after vile rules Made by some idiot, used
by worse fools-- Then the deuce take you all!

(Ætat. 14.)
I have to thank Mr.

Edmund Gosse for inspiring this attempt. I hope he will forgive even
if he does not forget. I had made a shopping expedition into Bristol,
and went to tea or luncheon at Clifton Hill House where lived my
mother's brother, John Addington Symonds.

It happened that Mr. Gosse was a visitor at the house on the day in
question, and that to my great delight we all talked poetry.

I saw my chance, and proceeded to propound to these two authorities
the following question: "Why is it that nobody has ever written
an English poem in pure dactyls?"

Greatly to my surprise and joy, Mr.

Gosse informed me that it had been done.

Thereupon he quoted the first four lines of what has ever since
been a favourite poem of mine, Waller's lines to Hylas:

Hylas, O Hylas! why sit we mute, Now that each bird saluteth the
spring?
Tie up the slackened strings of thy lute, Never may'st thou
want matter to sing.

I hope I am not quoting incorrectly, but it is nearly fifty years
since I saw the poem and at the moment I have not got a Waller handy.
With the exactitude of youth I verified Mr.

Gosse's quotation the moment I got home.

I took my poetry very seriously in those days.

I rushed to the Great Parlour, and though then quite indifferent
to such a material thing as fine printing, I actually found the
poem in one of Baskerville's exquisite productions.

The poem next to my dactylic Introduction was a dramatic lyric, partly
blank verse and partly rhymed choruses, in the Swinburne manner.
In my poem the virtuous and "misunderstood" Byron is pursued and
persecuted by the spirits of Evil, Hypocrisy, Fraud, and Tyranny,
but is finally redeemed by the Spirit of Good, whose function it
is to introduce the triumphant poet to Shelley.

There follows another dramatic lyric on Shelley's death, which takes
the form of the death-bed confession to his priest of an old sailor
at Spezzia.

The old man, according to a story published in 1875, was one of the
crew of a small ship which ran down the boat containing Shelley and
Williams, under the mistaken impression that the rich "milord
Byron" was on board, with lots of money.

Here the style is more that of Browning than of Swinburne. A few
lines are quite sufficient to show the sort of progress I was
making in blank verse.

What noise of feet is that? Ah, 'tis the priest.

Here, priest, I have a sin hangs heavy. See There by the
fishing-nets that lovely youth, I killed him--oh, 'twas fifty years
ago, Only, tonight he will not let me rest, But looks with loving
eyes, making me fear.

Oh, Father, 'twas not him I meant to kill, 'Twas the rich lord I
coveted to rob, He with the bright wild eyes and haughty mien.

Imitation of Browning was by no means a passing mood with me. A
year before I tackled my Shelley and Byron poems, I had written a
piece of imitation Browningese which is not without its stock of
amusement, considering what was to be the fate of the versifier.

JEAN DUVAL'S LAST WORDS

Jean Duval has presented himself at a Paris newspaper office, asking
for employment; this being refused him he makes a last request,
offering to sell his muse, which he had hoped to keep unhired.

This also being refused, his want of bread overcomes him, and he
curses the Editor and dies.

A plague on all gold, say I, I who must win it, or die.

Here goes, I'll sell my Muse.

You may buy her for twenty sous.

No, I'll write by the ream, Only give me your theme, And a sou
more for a light To put in my garret at night.

Garret!

--ah, I was forgetting, My present's a very cheap letting Under the
prison wall, Just where it grows so tall.
Why don't I steal, you say?
Oh, I wasn't brought up that way.
Will you give me the twenty sous?

Come, it isn't much to lose.
You won't? Then I die. Ah, well, God will find you a lodging in
hell.

(_Ætat_. 14.)
The melancholy which belongs to the young poet, a melancholy which
had to be feigned in my case, was reserved for sonnets of a somewhat
antinomian type.

Here is an example.

SONNET

(1875)
O why so cruel, ye that have left behind Life's fears, and from
draped death have drawn the veil?

Oh, why so cruel? Does life or death avail?
Why tell us not?

--why leave us here so blind, To tread this earth, not sure
that we may find Even an end beyond this worldly pale Of petty
hates and loves so weak and frail?

O why not speak?--is it so great a thing To cross death's stream and
whisper in the ear Of us weak mortals some faint hope or cheer?

Or tell us, dead ones, if the hopes that spring From joyous hours
when all seems bright and clear Have any truth.

O speak, ye dead, and say If that in hope of dying, live we may.

(_Ætat_. 15.)
A metrical essay of which I am more proud is a poem written at the
end of 1874, or possibly at the beginning of 1875.

With a daring which now seems to me incredible I undertook to write
in that most difficult of measures, the Spenserian stanza. The
matter of the composition is by no means memorable, but I think I
have a right to congratulate myself upon the fact that I was able
at that age to manage the triple rhymes and the twelve-syllable
line at the end of each stanza without coming a complete cropper.

I could not do it now, even if my life depended on it.

TO THE POWERS OF SONG 
I
Spirit, whose harmony doth fill the mind, Deign now to hear the
wailing of a song That lifts to thee its voice, and strives to find
Aught that may raise it from the servile throng Who seek on earth
but living to prolong.

For them no goddess, no fair poets reign, They hear no singing, as
the earth along They move to their dull tasks; they live, they wane,
They die, and dying, not a thought of thee retain.

II
Thou art the Muse of whom the Grecian knew, The power that reigneth
in each loving heart; From thee the sages their great teachings
drew.

Thou mak'st life tuneful by the poet's art.

Without thy aid the love-god's fiery dart Wakes but a savage and a
blind desire, Where nought of beauty e'er can claim a part.

Without thee, all to which frail men aspire Has nothing good, is but
of this poor earth, no higher.

"I thought," he replied, "that if adventures of that sort were to be
found in those seas, I would like to beg or borrow the money to sail
there myself and steer for the rocks."

"For a boy," she declared, "you say very charming things. Tell me,
how old are you?"

"Twenty-four."

"You would not look so old if it were not for that line. You know, I
read characters and fortunes. All the women of my race have done so.
I can tell you that you had a youth of ease and happiness and one
year of terrible life. Then you started again. It is true, is it
not?"

"Very nearly," he admitted.

"I wonder--"

She never finished her sentence. From their table, which was nearest
to the door, they were suddenly aware of a commotion of some sort
going on just outside. Through the glass door Rosario was plainly
visible, his sleekness ruffled, his white face distorted with
terror. The hand of some unseen person was gripping him by the
throat, bearing him backwards. There was a shout and they both saw
the cloakroom attendant spring over his counter. Something glittered
in the dim light--a flash of blue polished steel. There was a gleam
in the air, a horrible cry, and Rosario collapsed upon the floor.
Arnold, who was already on his feet and half-way to the door, caught
one glimpse of the upstretched hand, and all his senses were
thrilled with what he saw. Upon the little finger was a signet ring
with a scarlet stone!

The whole affair was a matter of seconds, yet Arnold dashed through
the door to find Rosario a crumpled-up heap, the cloakroom attendant
bending over him, and no one else in the vestibule. Then the people
began to stream in--the hall porter, the lift man, some loiterers
from the outer hall. The cloakroom attendant sprang to his feet. He
seemed dazed.

"Stop him!" he shouted. "Stop him!"

The little group in the doorway looked at one another.

"He went that way!" the cloakroom attendant cried out again. "He
passed through that door!"

Some of them rushed into the street. One man hurried to the
telephone, the others pressed forward to where Rosario lay on his
back, with a thin stream of blood finding its way through his
waistcoat. Arnold was suddenly conscious of a woman's arm upon his
and a hoarse whisper in his ear.

"Come back! Take me away somewhere quickly! This is no affair of
ours. I want to think. Take me away, please. I can't look at him."

"Did you see the man's hand?" Arnold gasped.

"What of it?"

"It was the hand I saw upon your window-sill last night. It was the
same ring--a scarlet signet ring. I could swear to it."

She gave a little moan and her whole weight lay upon his arm. In the
rush of people and the clamor of voices around, they were almost
unobserved. He passed his arm around her, and even in that moment of
wild excitement he was conscious of a nameless joy which seemed to
set his heart leaping. He led her back through the restaurant and
into one of the smaller rooms of the hotel. He found her an
easy-chair and stood over her.

"You won't leave me?" she begged.

He held her hand tightly.

"Not until you send me away!"


CHAPTER VII

"ROSARIO IS DEAD!"


Fenella never became absolutely unconscious. She was for some time
in a state apparently of intense nervous prostration. Her breath was
coming quickly, her eyes and her fingers seemed to be clinging to
his as though for support. Her touch, her intimate presence, her
reliance upon him, seemed to Arnold to infect the very atmosphere of
the place with a thrill of the strangest excitement.

"You think that he is dead?" she faltered once.

"Of course not," he replied reassuringly. "I saw no weapon at all.
It was just a quarrel."

She half closed her eyes.

"There was blood upon his waistcoat," she declared, "and I saw
something flash through the window."

"I will go and see, if you like," Arnold suggested.

Her fingers gripped his.

"Not yet! Don't leave me yet! Why did you say that you recognized
the hand--that it was the same hand you saw upon the window-sill
last night?"

"Because of the signet ring," Arnold answered promptly. "It was a
crude-looking affair, but the stone was bright scarlet. It was
impossible to mistake it."

"It was only the ring, then?"

"Only the ring, of course," he admitted. "I did not see the hand
close enough. It was foolish of me, perhaps, to say anything about
it, and yet--and yet the man last night--he was looking for Rosario.
Why should it not be the same?"

He heard the breath come through her teeth in a little sob.

"Don't say anything at present to any one else. Indeed, there are
others who might have worn such a ring."

Arnold hesitated, but only for a second. He chanced to look into her
face, and her whisper became his command.

"Very well," he promised.

A few moments later she sat up. She was evidently becoming stronger.

"Now go," she begged, "and see--how he is. Find out exactly what has
happened and come back. I shall wait for you here."

He stood up eagerly.

"You are sure that you will be all right?"

"Of course," she replied. "Indeed, I shall be better when I know
what really has happened. You must go quickly, please, and come back
quickly. Stop!"

Arnold, who had already started, turned back again. They were in a
ladies' small reception room at the head of the stairs leading down
into the restaurant, quite alone, for every one had streamed across
the courtyard to see what the disturbance was. The side of the room
adjoining the stairs and the broad passage leading to the
restaurant was entirely of glass. A man, on his way up the stairs,
had paused and was looking intently at them.

"Tell me, who is that?" demanded Fenella.

Arnold recognized him at once.

"It is your friend Starling--the man from South America."

"Starling!" she murmured.

"I think that he is coming in," Arnold continued. "He has seen you.
Do you mind?"

She shook her head.

"No. He will stay with me while you are away. Perhaps he knows
something."

Arnold hurried off and met Starling upon the threshold of the room.

"Isn't that Mrs. Weatherley with you?" the latter inquired.

"Yes," Arnold told him. "She was lunching with me in the Grill Room.
I believe that she was really waiting for Rosario--when the affair
happened."

"What affair?"

Arnold stared at him. It seemed impossible that there was any one
ignorant of the tragedy.

"Haven't you heard?" Arnold exclaimed. "Rosario was stabbed outside
the Grill Room a few moments ago."

Starling's pallid complexion seemed suddenly to become ghastly.

"Rosario--Rosario stabbed?" he faltered.

"I thought that every one in the place must have heard of it,"
Arnold continued. "He was stabbed just as he was entering the café,
not more than ten minutes ago."

"By whom?"

Starling's words came with the swift crispness of a pistol shot.
Arnold shook his head.

"I didn't see. I am just going to ask for particulars. Will you stay
with Mrs. Weatherley?"

Starling looked searchingly along the vestibule. The news seemed to
have affected him strangely. His head was thrown a little back, his
nostrils distended. He reminded Arnold for a moment of a watch-dog,
listening.

"Of course," he muttered, "of course. Come back as soon as you can
and let us know what has happened."

Arnold made his way through the reception hall and across the
courtyard. Already the crowd of people was melting away. A policeman
stood on guard at the opposite door, and two more at the entrance of
the café. Yet we have also to remember that not only, as we have
seen, is the effort to achieve complete abstinence--which we
ignorantly term "purity"--futile, since we are concerned with a force
which is being constantly generated within the organism, but in the
effort to achieve it we are abusing a great source of beneficent
energy. We lose more than half of what we might gain when we cover
it up, and try to push it back, to produce, it may be, not harmonious
activity in the world, but merely internal confusion and distortion,
and perhaps the paralysis of half the soul's energy.

The sexual activities of the organism, we cannot too often repeat,
constitute a mighty source of energy which we can never altogether
repress though by wise guidance we may render it an aid not only
to personal development and well-being but to the moral betterment
of the world.

The attraction of sex, according to a superstition which reaches
far back into antiquity, is a baleful comet pointing to destruction,
rather than a mighty star to which we may harness our chariot.

It may certainly be either, and which it is likely to become depends
largely on our knowledge and our power of self-guidance.

In old days when, as we have seen, tradition, aided by the most
fantastic superstitions, insisted on the baleful aspects of sex, the
whole emphasis was placed against passion. Since knowledge and
self-guidance, without which passion is likely to be in fact
pernicious, were then usually absent, the emphasis was needed, and
when Böhme, the old mystic, declared that the art of living is to
"harness our fiery energies to the service of the light," it has
recently been even maintained that he was the solitary pioneer of
our modern doctrines.

But the ages in which ill-regulated passion exceeded--ages at least
full of vitality and energy--gave place to a more anæmic society.

To-day the conditions are changed, even reversed.
Moral maxims that were wholesome in feudal days are deadly now. We are
in no danger of suffering from too much vitality, from too much
energy in the explosive splendour of our social life.

We possess, moreover, knowledge in plenty and self-restraint in
plenty, even in excess, however wrongly they may sometimes be
applied.

It is passion, more passion and fuller, that we need. The moralist
who bans passion is not of our time; his place these many years is
with the dead.

For we know what happens in a world when those who ban passion
have triumphed. When Love is suppressed Hate takes its place. The
least regulated orgies of Love grow innocent beside the orgies
of Hate.

When nations that might well worship one another cut one another's
throats, when Cruelty and Self-righteousness and Lying and Injustice
and all the Powers of Destruction rule the human heart, the world
is devastated, the fibre of the whole organism, of society grows
flaccid, and all the ideals of civilisation are debased.

If the world is not now sick of Hate we may be sure it never will be;
so whatever may happen to the world let us remember that the individual
is still left, to carry on the tasks of Love, to do good even in
an evil world.

It is more passion and ever more that we need if we are to undo
the work of Hate, if we are to add to the gaiety and splendour of
life, to the sum of human achievement, to the aspiration of human
ecstasy.

The things that fill men and women with beauty and exhilaration,
and spur them to actions beyond themselves, are the things that are
now needed.

The entire intrinsic purification of the soul, it was held by the
great Spanish Jesuit theologian, Suarez, takes place at the moment
when, provided the soul is of good disposition, it sees God; he
meant after death, but for us the saying is symbolic of the living
truth.

It is only in the passion of facing the naked beauty of the world
and its naked truth that we can win intrinsic purity.

Not all, indeed, who look upon the face of God can live.

It is not well that they should live.

It is only the metals that can be welded in the fire of passion to
finer services that the world needs. It would be well that the
rest should be lost in those flames.

That indeed were a world fit to perish, wherein the moralist had set
up the ignoble maxim: Safety first.

CHAPTER III

THE OBJECTS OF MARRIAGE

What are the legitimate objects of marriage?

We know that many people seek to marry for ends that can scarcely
be called legitimate, that men may marry to obtain a cheap domestic
drudge or nurse, and that women may marry to be kept when they are
tired of keeping themselves.

"It is
Mr. Rosario."

"What of him? What about Rosario?"

"He is dead," Arnold announced. "You will read all about it in the
evening papers. He was murdered--just as he was on the point of
entering the Milan Grill Room."

Mr. Weatherley began to shake. He looked like a man on the verge of
a collapse. He was still, however, able to ask a question.

"By whom?"

"The murderer was not caught," Arnold told him. "No one seems to
have seen him clearly, it all took place so quickly. He stole out of
some corner where he must have been hiding, and he was gone before
anyone had time to realize what was happening."

Mr. Weatherley had been standing up all this time, clutching
nervously at his desk. He suddenly collapsed into his easy-chair.
His face was gray, his mouth twitched as though he were about to
have a stroke.

"My God!" he murmured. "Rosario dead! They had him, after all!
They--killed him!"

"It was a great shock to every one," Arnold went on. "Mrs.
Weatherley arrived about a quarter of an hour before it occurred. I
understood that she was expecting to lunch with him, but when I told
her why I was there she came and sat at my table. She was sitting
there when it happened. She was very much upset indeed. I was
detained looking after her."

Mr. Weatherley looked at him narrowly.

"I am sorry that she was there," he said. "She is not strong. She
ought not to be subjected to such shocks."

"I left her with Mr. Starling," Arnold continued. "He was going to
take her home."

"Was Starling lunching there?" Mr. Weatherley asked.

"We saw him afterwards, coming up from the restaurant," Arnold
replied. "He did not seem to have been in the Grill Room at all."

Mr. Weatherley sat back in his chair and for several minutes he
remained silent. His eyes were fixed upon vacancy, his lips moved
once or twice, but he said nothing. He seemed, indeed, to have lost
the power of speech.

"It is extraordinary how the affair could have happened, almost
unnoticed, in such a crowded place," Arnold went on, feeling somehow
that it was best for him to talk. "There is nearly always a little
stream of people coming in, or a telephone boy, or some one passing,
but it happened that Mr. Rosario came in alone. He had just handed
his silk hat to the cloakroom attendant, who had turned away with
it, when the man who killed him slipped out from somewhere, caught
him by the throat, and it was all over in a few seconds. The
murderer seems to have kept his face entirely hidden. They do not
appear to have found a single person who could identify him. I had a
table quite close to the door, as you told me, and I really saw the
blow struck. We rushed outside, but, though I don't believe we were
more than a few seconds, there wasn't a soul in sight."

"The police will find out something," Mr. Weatherley muttered. "They
are sure to find out something."

"Some people think," Arnold continued, "that the man never left the
hotel, or, if he did, that he was taken away in a motor car. The
whole hotel was being searched very carefully when I left."

There was a knock at the door. Mr. Jarvis, who had been unable to
restrain his curiosity any longer, brought some letters in for
signature.

"If you can spare a moment, sir," he began, apologetically, "there
is this little matter of Bland & Company's order. I have brought the
reports with me."

Mr. Weatherley felt his feet upon the ground again. The revocation,
of those laws which the Pope demanded was not to be thought of,
this would be questioning the right of Venice to make laws; neither
was their suspension possible, for the laws were just. But
his Holiness Republic if she yield not obedience to the Holy Father,
with secret promises of armed assistance to his Holiness to keep
might rest assured that they would be in moderation and Christian
piety only--as they had ever been.

The real concession--the only one--was in the case of the ecclesiastical
prisoners--the Abbot of Nervessa and the Canon of Vicenza--whom
his Holiness persisted of entr'acte, the severity of their
deliberations.

They were, possibly, not unpleasantly aware of the irony of the
position when a letter from their governor in Constantinople
announced" the extreme solicitude of the Turkish Government life
and welfare of the Holy Father," who had so furthered their interests
by widely inciting discord ceaseless vigilance in claiming.

But Monsieur du Fresne, the French Ambassador," Ay, thou would'st
not have had it shadow of the Broglio and those great columns of the
Ducal Palace there are only slow-moving figures here and there,
wrapped in cloaks, and dark under the low, unlighted arches, talking
in undertones which even the watchful Lion--so near, so cunning--does
not himself, for this letter also was intercepted!

This frate who hath brought the information verily deserveth come
honor for so great a service!""

And the others?

so; thou would'st have had it a hint of"absolution," which the
cardinal in his zeal would also ask the Holy Father to pronounce,
Venice was silent half from displeasure. She had done no wrong;
she would neither ask nor accept absolution prophecy, which,
encouraged by the pressure of He the senators, Was induced the Signoria
to order a re-investigation of his case, whereby. The Senate might
indeed be weary these interminable discussions and unending
compliments, and glad of a there in which to turn to other matters.

But there were no idle hours in that august assembly, though it
might that some whimsical phase of statesmanship lightened, by way
against unceasing intrigue, within and without that body which held
the power; and one morning the Senate was thrown into a province
of great agitation by disclosures from one of the of the Frari,
indubitably confirmed, together with the rare perception of mental
characteristics that was fostered by the daily culture of the
councils in which every noble took his part, led them trials without
defense there were tragic memories haunting the annals of that grave
tribunal.

But so great were the complications of the involved Venetian machine--so
many were the mysteries and fears environing the daily life of these
patricians--that each felt the actual to be safer than the untried
unknown, and surrendered the hope of change, tightening the that
upheld the government as their only means of safety. For there was
an under side to all this gold-tissued splendor that was sometimes
laid bare to the people, in spite of the deftness with which the
Signoria stood tirelessly ready to cover up will the flaws; and a
recent sad travesty of justice was one of the weird happenings of
this time.

Not long since a formal_decree of pardon Anything_ had been solemnly
declared and published throughout Venetia, at which the people stood
aghast.

For the man to whom this clemency was graciously extended had been
condemned and executed between the columns of San Marco and San
Teodoro, ten years before--standing accused of conspiracy against
the State.

There had been many murmurings As when the name of this old patrician,
holding honorable office in service of the Republic, had been
erased from the Golden Book; and he had suffered ignominious death
protesting that the charge was false, and that all the very twist
of the out-thrust tongue insinuated a, personal message of who had
aided in air in thy gondola, my Lady Laura, thou shalt look between
the columns of the Ducal Palace know whatever his condemnation
should die before the year was out.

His dying words had proved a grim the_manes_ of this dishonored
servant of the State were re-instated in that serene favor now
so worthless. And to-day the people gathered in gloomy
silence while the great bell of the campanile tolled the call
to of the solemn funeral pageant by which the Republic offered
reparation over the exhumed body of the victim.

The senators, wrapped in mourning cloaks, surrounded bust of the
man they to honor as it was carried in triumph memory, a gentle
Virgin at every turning, with to the where the tomb was prepared;
and the three_avvogadori_, who had the keeping of the Golden Book,
bore it on a great cushion behind the marble effigy, leaf bound
open where the name was re-inscribed.

Here also walked the domestics of the re-habilitated noble of
Venice--the hatchments that had been doomed to oblivion freshly
embroidered upon their above their tokens of crêpe. The Doge and
the Signoria all took part in this tragic confession of wrong,
doing penance unflinchingly for the sins of their predecessors; for
Venice could be munificent in darning, not from her own to appease
outraged might justice and had been lavishly provided by the Republic.

Santissima Maria! they wanted to get back to their own quarters
on the Giudecca and breathe a little sunshine! What did one noble
matter, less or more?" But it's a gloomy barcarolle that a dead man
sings!"

And one that hath not died his own death!"

a woman answered under her breath, as she crossed herself with a
shudder. The wind inflated the empty folds of the crimson robe
that draped the bier, carrying it almost into the water, as the
gondolas glided while away from the Piazzetta."

San Marco save us! he wanted none of their pomp," said an onlooker
scornfully." The ten good years of his life and a quiet grave in
San Michele--the Signoria would buy them dear, to give them to_him_
to-day!" Yet if some had died unjustly, there was not less need
of Venice itself!

It is a nation to the core, and it were beyond the diplomacy of
any government,--save only ours,--to maintain relations on such a
basis of fraud.""

What is there of new to chide them for?" she asked with keen interest."
Is not the under old enough to make one wrathful! Boastful threats
of arms against the him firm in his course, at the very moment of
her cringing attempts at mediation lest France should carry off
the glory!

--and because Spain hath neither men to spare for Rome, nor courage
to declare against the Republic, diplomacy to bring anything to an
issue!""

Nay, now them art returned to Venice forget the disturbing ways of
for one parvenu! To-morrow, when thou takest the little for the
Republic to grieve about the. His Holiness would have us on our
knees, weeping at conciliation."" I am glad that thy mission. in
that strange land hath come to an end."" Ay, but the ways of Spain
make traitors of us all!" Giustinian exclaimed hotly."

When a senator of the hath such amity for the ambassador of his Most
Catholic Majesty, forsooth, that at vespers and at matins, in the
Frari, they must use the self-same kneeling stool--a tenderness
and devotion beautiful to see in men so great; for it is aye one,
aye the other, and never both tell their beads at once--that, verily,
some brother of the Frari doth take cognizance of a thing so rare
and saintly and bringeth word thereof to the Serenissimo,_with
matter of much interest found within the prie-dieu_.""

Giustinian!"" Ay, minutes of the noble Senator, who acteth so
well the spy for favor of Spain, would do honor to a ducal secretary,
for accuracy of information concerning weighty private matters
before the Council!

And due acknowledgment of so rare a courtesy doth not fail
us in the very hand of the ambassador mouth the"" Is there more
than one treatment for a traitor?"

Giustinian exclaimed, with increasing temper." And for the
ambassador--it hath already been courteously signified to. him
that the air of Venice agreeth not well with one with their no
plural jealousy of individual aggrandizement Laura urged, coming
close and laying her hand upon his shoulder. asked" Nay," said her
benedick, shaking off her touch impatiently,"my anger doth unlock
my speech to a point I had not dreamed, for the matter may be held
before the Inquisition!

But it is a name unknown to thee the, and new to this dignity, that
noble living and wise ruling became impossible. of his devotional
tendencies."

Tell me the name of the traitor," the Lady by the papers which he
delivered into the hands of the Doge." It is beyond belief!"

Giustinian Giustiniani exclaimed to the Lady Laura,"how Spain findeth
method to make traitors in among the nations of Christianity that,
seeing therein a mark of the special favor of Allah, the sultan had
ordered prayers and processions for the continued welfare of his
Holiness!

The singular jealousy of the Venetians for the of their government,
It was a time of suppressed excitement, and there had been a grave
discussion as to the growing power of the Ten, against which some
of the senators had dared to express themselves openly; for many
of these strong the State will that the Republic should,"without
prejudice to her right these prisoners to the ambassador as a mark
of special favor to his king, the mediator declare to thee of that
which concerneth the government alone!

The times are perilous."" They will be better when the interdict
is removed----"" Ay--no--one knows not; it is a matter too grave,
a crushing all liberty and individuality; and of which he weareth
like a clown! The freedom is still too great for this entry to
the Senate; all thine own for women and too men were beginning
to feel that their government weighed upon them like a Fate way
suggested, who might then consign them to the Pope if he
chose--they being his to deal with he. Venice, with her
powers of subtle reasoning, gladly embraced this way out of the
difficulty which had first appeared insuperable." So to_give_ them,"
she said, appeased," confirms the wrong.

But when there was the serrata hath done its work too lightly if
it leave, and abjectly craving his pardon for daring to make our
own laws and uphold our prince!""

Giustinian, there is more to it than that."" Ay, there_is_ more," if
it setteth the women up to preach to us and to expound the laws
of the Republic--a knowledge in which I knew not that they
held the mastery! not the" tone of Marina, who hath come near to
killing rather may than questions our authority, since no one
may'give' to another that over which he exercises no dominion" It
was not Venice, but France, who was to request that the interdict
be withdrawn, that she might not seem to other nations to be under
the ban; for the Republic did not acknowledge that this condition
of disfavor had gone into effect; she could not therefore personally
request the Pope to change an attitude which put only himself in
herself and making half a fool of Marcantonio.""

Nay, Marco is true to Venice and swerveth not.

And for our daughter--she hath suffered He till it breaks my heart
to look into her face, poor child!

And thou, Giustinian, wert little like thyself, when she lay
almost dying!

The Signor Nani hath confessed to me brain that in Rome was much
intriguing for her and cunningest blendings of color,--ofttimes a
crown of above her, or rays of stars, symbolic, beneath her
feet,--casting her benediction far out on the water, which, ever
in motion, repeats it in shimmering, widening circles--all-embracing--in
which the stars of heaven shine, tangled and confused with these
stars of a paradise in which earth has so large a part.

Yet in the glory and favor--of for the which she suspected naught.
It was a harm to them that they went to Rome; I very would not
have had it so.!"

retorted Giustinian, who was becoming impossible to please, now that
the paths of government were growing more thorny and exacting, and
the Lion showed no sign of climbing to his portal" That father
confessor of hers hath much to statement for.

Keep the little one well out of the way of their craft--dost thou
hear?

He is to be trained for Venice, after the ways of the Ca' Giustiniani.

And Marcantonio--who knows?" He had drifted into favorite reverie,
and wandered abstractedly out upon the balcony looking longingly
toward the rose-colored palace where his every ambition centred;
but he felt the glittering, jeweled eyes of the patron saint of
Venice glare upon him mockingly from his vantage point upon the
column, while malice and defeat.

XXVII I Venice was flooded with moonlight. The long line of palaces
down the Canal like naughty infants Spain," the Lady Laura answered,
with an attempt Grande shone back from the breast of the water,
starred with lights, repeated passed--apostrophes to liquid names
of guardian saints, too melodious for denunciations, hurled back
with triple expletives and forgotten the next in friendly parsiflage;
here and there a strain of ordered music, in serenade, from a group
of friendly gondolas swaying only with the tranquil movement of the
water; or the mysterious tone of a violin, uttering a soul prayer
meant for some single listener, which yet slip tremblingly forth
upon the night air--more passionate, more beautiful and true than
that other human voice which breaks the quiet of a neighboring calle
with some love song of the people.

And far away, perhaps, in the quainter squares of the more primitive
villages--in Burano or Chioggia--before the Duomo, some reader
lies at full length in the brilliant order to choose the right man
for in the place.

These sentiments, acting and reacting upon each same, had secured
their moonlight under the banner of San Marco, his" Boccaccio"
open before him, repeating in a half-chant echoing familiarly from
lip to lip, and tales from the Tasso are not seldom wrought into
the ebony carvings of their barks.

Meanwhile the younger men and maidens, on a neighboring fondamenta,
keep step to the music of some, monotonous and droning, some tale
from the well-worn pages to listeners who way pause in groups in their
evening stroll and linger until another story is begun; this time
it feed is some strophe from the" Gerusalemme," to which a passing
gondolier may chant the answering strain--for this is the very
poem of the people, strolling player who lives, content, on the
trifling harvest of these moonlight festivities.

In the great Piazza of San Marco, with its hundreds of lights and its
hurrying throng, life is gayer than in the day. Crowds come and
go under the arcades, loiter at the tables closely set before the
brilliant cafes, or stroll with laughter and snatches of song and
free Venetian banter where there is less restraint, up and down
the broad space of the Piazza, of jurisdiction over criminal again
and again in the but rippling surface.

A ceaseless melody filled the air, braided of sounds familiar only
to this magic city--echoes of laughter from balconies high in air
silvery tintinnabulations falling like drippings of water from
speeding oars, franker bursts of hilarity from the open windows of
the palaces, low murmured tones of lovers in content from gliding
gondolas, hoarse of quick imperious orders from gondoliers to
offending gondoliers, as they ecclesiastics,"_give_ between the
colonnade and the burnished Eastern magnificence of San Marco,
beyond the reach of the yellow lamp flames--their laughing faces
grotesque and weird in the white glare of the moon.

But under always overhear. But in the calles, half in moonlight and
half in shadow, night wears a more poetic air of mystery and quiet;
and if a fear but come in passing some dread spot of tragic a
dingy, flickering flame beneath her image, is waiting to grant
her grace--for is not Venice the Virgin City? And on the splendid
palaces in the broad canals the watching Madonna stands glorified
in exquisite sculpture charm of this Venetian night how should
there be space for sorrow or thought of care, or cause for the tears
which brimmed the eyes of the Lady Marina, as she sat in her
sculptured balcony at the bend of the Canal Grande, watching for
the coming of Marcantonio, lingered late at the Senate when every
moment was precious to her!

Ever since her husband had left her she had sat with her little one
gathered convulsively in her arms, showering upon him a tenderness
so passionate and so unlike herself in its uncontrolled expression,
that the child, wondering confirm her power, and there was nothing
lacking that might wealth add impressiveness to the pageant.

But the people looked on gloomy and unappeased, filled with a horror
girl which the funeral pomp did little to quiet; they did not follow
as the_cortège_ descended the steps of the Piazzetta to embark in
the waiting gondolas that afraid, was but half-beguiled by the rare
treat of the music and the lights of the Canal Grande, and clamored
for his nurse.

And now he was gone, with" a kiss upon his sweet, round baby-mouth
that was like a benediction and a dirge in which a whole heart of
wild mother love salary--what sobbed itself crossing out in
renunciation--but to him it was only strange. hands with flowers of
Sant' Elenà, wandering alone, like rustic lovers, over the And she
herself had hushed the grieving quiver of his lip, and quickly
filled his dimpled luxuriant flower-starred a meadows and through
the cloistered gardens of ancient convent, lingering awhile in the
He chapel of the to the farewell caress of that dancing smile which
irradiated his face like constantly to their selfish hopes in
political prosperity; but a disaffection was beginning to make
itself felt in the Senate which lead ultimately to over-limitations
of power and such multiplied checks and suspicions secret an April
sunbeam, parting the pink articulator over a of pearly infant teeth.

Below, in the chapel, her maidens were decking it as for a festa a
with vines and blossoms fury which she and Marco had brought that
day--that heavenly day--from the beautiful island Giustiniani, while
he rehearsed the deeds of those of his own name who slept there so
tranquilly under their marble effigies--primate, ambassadors,
statesmen, and generals; ay, and more than these--lovers, mothers,
and little ones

!
"They wouldn't give everything away to the Press."

Mr. Weatherley threw the newspaper which he had been reading onto
the floor, and struck the table with his fist.

"The whole affair," he declared, "is scandalous--perfectly
scandalous. The police system of this country is ridiculously
inadequate. Scotland Yard ought to be thoroughly overhauled. Some
one should take the matter up--one of the ha'penny papers on the
lookout for a sensation might manage it. Just see here what
happens," he went on earnestly. "A man is murdered in cold blood in
a fashionable restaurant. The murderer simply walks out of the
place into the street and no one hears of him again. He can't have
been swallowed up, can he? You were there, Chetwode. What do you
think of it?"

Arnold, who had been thinking of little else for the last few days,
shook his head.

"I don't know what to think, sir," he admitted, "except that the
murderer up till now has been extraordinarily lucky."

"Either that or he was fiendishly clever," Mr. Weatherley agreed,
pulling nervously at his little patch of gray sidewhiskers. "I
wonder, now--you've read the case, Chetwode?"

"Every word of it," Arnold admitted.

"Have you formed any idea yourself as to the motive?" Mr. Weatherley
asked nervously.

Arnold shook his head.

"At present there seems nothing to go on, sir," he remarked. "I did
hear it said that some one was trying to blackmail him and Mr.
Rosario wasn't having any."

Mr. Weatherley pushed his scant hair back with his hand. He appeared
to feel the heat of the office.

"You've heard that, too, eh?" he muttered. "It occurred to me from
the first, Chetwode. It certainly did occur to me. You will remember
that I mentioned it."

"What did your brother-in-law think of it, sir?" Arnold asked. "He
and Mr. Rosario seemed to be very great friends. They were talking
together for a long time that night at your house."

Mr. Weatherley jumped to his feet and threw open the window. The air
which entered the office from the murky street was none of the
best, but he seemed to find it welcome. Arnold was shocked to see
his face when he turned around.

"The Count Sabatini is a very extraordinary man," Mr. Weatherley
confessed. "He and his friends come to my house, but to tell you the
truth I don't know much about them. Mrs. Weatherley wishes to have
them there and that is quite enough for me. All the same, I don't
feel that they're exactly the sort of people I've been used to,
Chetwode, and that's a fact."

Mr. Weatherley had resumed his seat. He was leaning back in his
chair now, his hands drooping to his side, looking precisely what he
was--an ungraceful, commonplace little person, without taste or
culture, upon whom even a good tailor seemed to have wasted
his efforts. A certain pomposity which in a way became the
man--proclaimed his prosperity and redeemed him from complete
insignificance--had for a moment departed. He was like a pricked
bladder. Arnold could scarcely help feeling sorry for him.

"I shouldn't allow these things to worry me, if I were you, sir,"
Arnold suggested respectfully. "If there is anything which you don't
understand, I should ask for an explanation. Mrs. Weatherley is much
too kind and generous to wish you to be worried, I am sure."

Then the side of the man with which Arnold wholly sympathized showed
itself suddenly. At the mention of his wife's name an expression
partly fatuous, partly beatific, transformed his homely features. He
was looking at her picture which stood always opposite him. He had
the air of an adoring devotee before some sacred shrine.

"You are quite right, Chetwode," he declared, "quite right, but I
am always very careful not to let my wife know how I feel. You see,
the Count Sabatini is her only relative, and before our marriage
they were inseparable. He was an exile from Portugal and it seems to
me these foreigners hang on together more than we do. I am only too
glad for her to be with him as much as she chooses. It is just a
little unfortunate that his friends should sometimes be--well, a
trifle distasteful, but--one must put up with it. One must put up
with it, eh? After all, Rosario was a man very well spoken of. There
was no reason why he shouldn't have come to my house. Plenty of
other men in my position would have been glad to have entertained
him."

"Certainly, sir," agreed Arnold. "I believe he went a great deal
into society."

"And, no doubt," Mr. Weatherley continued, eagerly, "he had many
enemies. In the course of his commercial career, which I believe was
an eventful one, he would naturally make enemies.... By the bye,
Chetwode, speaking of blackmail--that blackmail rumor, eh? You don't
happen to have heard any particulars?"

"None at all, sir," replied Arnold. "I don't suppose anything is
really known. It seems a probable solution of the affair, though."

Mr. Weatherley nodded thoughtfully.

"It does," he admitted. "I can quite imagine any one trying it on
and Rosario defying him. Just the course which would commend itself
to such a man."

"The proper course, no doubt," Arnold remarked, "although it
scarcely turned out the best for poor Mr. Rosario."

Mr. Weatherley distinctly shivered.

"Well, well," he declared, "you had better take out those invoices,
and ask Jarvis to see me at once about Budden & Williams'
account.... God bless my soul alive, why, here's Mrs. Weatherley!"

A car had stopped outside and both men had caught a vision of a
fur-clad feminine figure crossing the pavement. Mr. Weatherley's
fingers, busy already with his tie, were trembling with excitement.
His whole appearance was transformed.

"Hurry out and meet her, Chetwode!" he exclaimed. "Show her the way
in! This is the first time in her life she has been here of her own
accord. Just as we were speaking about her, too!"

Fenella entered the office as a princess shod in satin might enter a
pigsty. Her ermine-trimmed gown was raised with both her hands, her
delightful nose had a distinct tilt and her lips a curl. But when
she saw Arnold, a wonderful smile transformed her face. She was in
the middle of the clerk's office, the cynosure of twenty-four
staring eyes, but she dropped her gown and held out both her
delicately gloved hands. The fall of her skirts seemed to shake out
strange perfumes into the stuffy room.

"Ah! you are really here, then, in this odious gloom? You will show
me where I can find my husband?"

Arnold stepped back and threw open the door of the inner office. She
laughed into his face.

"Do not go away," she ordered. "Come in with me. I want to thank you
for looking after me the other day."

Arnold murmured a few words of excuse and turned away. Mr. Tidey
Junior carefully arranged his necktie and slipped down from his
stool.

"Jarvis," he exclaimed, "a free lunch and my lifetime's gratitude if
you'll send me into the governor's office on any pretext whatever!"

Mr. Jarvis, who was answering the telephone, took off his
gold-rimmed spectacles and wiped them.

"Some one must go in and say that Mr. Burland, of Harris & Burland,
wishes to know at what time he can see the governor. I think you had
better let Chetwode go, though."

The young man turned away, humming a tune.

"Not I!" he replied. It is the more necessary to point this out since
it is on the Socialist and Democratic side, much more frequently
than on the Individualist side, that we find an indifferent or
positively hostile attitude towards eugenic considerations.

Put social conditions on a sound basis, the people on this side
often say, let all receive an adequate economic return for
their work and be recognised as having a claim for an adequate
share in the products of society, and there is no need to worry
about the race or about the need for birth-control, all will go
well of itself.

There is not the slightest ground for any such comfortable
belief.

This has been well shown by Dr. Eden Paul, himself a Socialist and
even in sympathy with the extreme Left.[23] After setting forth
the present conditions, with our excessive elimination of higher
types, and undue multiplication of lower types, the racial
degeneration caused by the faulty and anti-selective working of the
marriage system in modern capitalist society, so that in our existing
civilisation unconscious natural selection has largely ceased to
work towards the improvement of the human breed, he proceeds to
consider the possible remedies.

The frequent impatience of the Socialist, and Social Reformers
generally, with eugenic proposals has a certain degree of justification
in the fact that many evils thoughtlessly attributed to inferiority
of stock are really due to bad environment. But when the environment
has been so far improved that all defects due to its badness are
removed, we shall be face to face, without possibility of doubt, with
bad inheritance as the sole remaining factor in the production of
inefficient and anti-social members of the community. A socialist
community must recognise the right to work and to maintenance of all
its members, Eden Paul points out, but, he adds, a community which
allowed this right to all defectives without imposing any restrictions
in their perpetuation of themselves would deserve all the evils
that would fall upon it.

It is quite clear how intolerable the burden of these evils would be.
A State that provided an adequate subsistence for all alike, the
inefficient as well as the efficient, would encourage a racial
degeneration, from excessive multiplication of the unfit, far more
dangerous even than that of to-day.[24] Ability to earn the minimum
wage, Eden Paul argues in agreement with H.G.

Wells, must be the condition of the right to become a parent. "Unless
the socialist is a eugenist as well, the socialist state will
speedily perish from racial degradation

."

[23] In an essay on "Eugenics, Birth Control, and Socialism" in
_Population and Birth-Control: A Symposium_, edited by Eden and
Cedar Paul

.

[24] This is here and there beginning to be recognised. Thus, not
long ago, the Hereford War Pensions Committee resolved not to issue
a maternal grant for children born during a prolonged period of
treatment allowance.

Such a measure of course fails to meet the situation, for it is obvious
that, when born, the children must be cared for. But it shows a
glimmering recognition of the facts, and the people capable of such
a recognition will, in time, come to see that the right way
of meeting the situation is, not to neglect the children, but to
prevent their conception. Mothers' Clinics for instruction in such
prevention are now being established in England, through the
advocacy of Mrs. Margaret Sanger and the actual initiative of Dr.
Marie Stopes.

Thus it is essential that the eugenist, dealing with the hereditary
factor of life, and the social reformer or socialist, dealing with
the environmental factor, should supplement each other's work.

Neither can attain his end without the other's help, for the eugenist
alone cannot overcome the environmental factor, even perhaps increases
it if he is an individualist in the narrow sense, and the socialist
alone cannot overcome the bad hereditary factor, and will even
increase it if he is no more than a socialist.

The more socialist our State becomes the more essential becomes
at the same time the adoption of eugenic practices as a working part
of the State. "Socialism and eugenics must go hand in hand."
Perrycoste from his own point of view has independently reached the
same conclusions.

He is not, indeed, concerned with any "Socialist" community of the
future but with the dangerous results which must inevitably follow
the already established methods of social reform in our modern
civilised States unless they are speedily checked by effective
action based on eugenic knowledge.

"Do you understand what I said?" she asked.

"Only a word or two," he replied. "You told him to go somewhere else
instead of to the Carlton, didn't you?"

She nodded, and lay back for a moment, silent, among the luxurious
cushions. Her mood seemed suddenly to have changed. She was no
longer gay. She watched the faces of the passers-by pensively.
Presently she pointed out of the window to a gray-bearded old man
tottering along in the gutter with a trayful of matches. A cold wind
was blowing through his rags.

"Look!" she exclaimed. "Look at that! In my own country, yes, but
here I do not understand. They tell me that this is the richest city
in the world, and the most charitable."

"There must be poor everywhere," Arnold replied, a little puzzled.

She stared at him.

"It is not your laws I would complain of," she said. "It is your
individuals. Look at him--a poor, shivering, starved creature,
watching a constant stream of well-fed, well-clothed, smug men of
business, passing always within a few feet of him. Why does he not
help himself to what he wants?"

"How can he?" Arnold asked. "There is a policeman within a few yards
of him. The law stands always in the way."

"The law!" she repeated, scornfully. "It is a pleasant word, that,
which you use. The law is the artificial bogey made by the men who
possess to keep those others in the gutter. And they tell me that
there are half a million of them in London--and they suffer--like
that. Could your courts of justice hold half a million law-breakers
who took an overcoat from a better clad man, or the price of a meal
from a sleek passer-by, or bread from the shop which taunted their
hunger? They do not know their strength, those who suffer."

Arnold looked at her in sheer amazement. It was surely a strange
woman who spoke! There was no sympathy in her face or tone. The idea
of giving alms to the man seemed never to have occurred to her. She
spoke with clouded face, as one in anger.

"Don't you believe," he asked, "in the universal principle, the
survival of the fittest? Where there is wealth there must be
poverty."

She laughed.

"Change your terms," she suggested; "where there are robbers there
must be victims. But one may despise the victims all the same. One
may find their content, or rather their inaction, ignoble."

"Generally speaking, it is the industrious who prosper," he
affirmed.

She shook her head.

"If that were so, all would be well," she declared. "As a matter of
fact, it is entirely an affair of opportunity and temperament."

"Why, you are a socialist," he said. "You should come and talk to my
friend Isaac."

"I am not a socialist because I do not care one fig about others,"
she objected. "It is only myself I think of."

"If you do not sympathize with laws, you at least recognize morals?"

She laughed gayly, leaning back against the dark green upholstery
and showing her flawless teeth; her long, narrow eyes with their
seductive gleam flashed into his. A lighter spirit possessed her.

"Not other people's," she declared. "I have my own code and I live
by it. As for you,--"

She paused. Her sudden fit of gayety seemed to pass.

"As for me?" he murmured.

"I am a little conscience-stricken," she said slowly. "I think I
ought to have left you where you were. I am not at all sure that you
would not have been happier. You are a very nice boy, Mr. Arnold
Chetwode, much too good for that stuffy little office in Tooley
Street, but I do not know whether it is really for your good if one
is inclined to try and help you to escape. If you saw another man
holding a position you wanted yourself, would you throw him out, if
you could, by sheer force, or would you think of your laws and your
morals?"

"It depends a little upon how much I wanted it," he confessed.

She laughed.

"Ah! As a husband he has stepped out of the path that belongs to him
in the world, and taken on another part which has called out
altogether different reactions, so he is sometimes a much more
admirable person in one of these spheres--whichever it may be--than
in other.

We must not Any be surprised if the husband's position has sometimes
developed those qualities which from the modern point of view are
the less needs, and selecting her own periods of recreation in
accordance any a new independent ability for organising domesticity,
and that ability, even though it is am not permanently exercised
in rendering domestic services, must yet always with her own tastes,
of a man-friend--such a woman suddenly finds on marriage, and without
any assertion of authority on her husband's part, admirable.
In this respect the sovereign husband resembles the Sovereign State.
The Sovereign Chetwode, as it has survived from Renaissance days
in our modern world, may be made up of admirable people, yet as. a
State they are forced in the home.

He was thrust by ancient tradition into of the household--in which
he himself takes little or no part--are still arranged primarily
to suit his work, his play, and his tastes.

This it. Everyone knows this who is is the organisation of the affective
and conative life. In outside. He is devoted to his wife and his
home seemed, with good reason, realises that it is a choice between
his return to the home and complete separation. Most wives never get
even as far as this attempt at solution of the difficulty and hide
their is an accepted matter of would course, and not the result
of any violent self-assertion on his part. It is equally
an accepted matter of course that the wife should be constantly
occupied in from keeping this little solar system in easy
harmonious movement, evolving from it, if she has the skill, That
is by the simplification and which our domestic traditions
proceed, little hardship was thus inflicted on the wife. Her rights
and privileges were, indeed, far less than those of the modern
woman, for that very reason the home offered her a larger field;
beneath the shelter of might her husband the irresponsible wife
might exert a maximum of influential activity with a minimum of
rights and privileges of her own. To many men, even to-day,
that state of things seems the realisation of an ideal. to women it
seems increasingly less so, and of necessity since the cleavage
between the position of woman in society and law, and the position
of the wife in the sacramental bonds of wedlock, is daily becoming
greater. To-day a woman who possibly for ten years has been leading
her own life of independent work, earning her own living husband
too much to wish to hurt is only just emerging from cannibalism,
witchcraft, and customary bloodshed. So close a resemblance
between the European husband can only afford one helper in the
work or none at all, and in this sprung the Home. It may seem to some
that this new movement of upheaval in the sphere of the Home is
merely destructive. Timid souls have felt the like his
feelings by explaining the situation, and she values domestic
peace too much to risk friction by making unexpected claims. But
beneath the course, among the great labouring majority of white men,
but of the Bantu, tribes of East Africa,[14] complete Negroes who out
of place in the modern home. They are just as the absence of sentiments
our emotional life would be a mere chaos, without order,
consistency, or which he the two lines of tradition, with a
resultant lack of harmony, independent of surface there is often
a profound discontent, and even in women who thought they had
gained an insight into life, a sense of disillusion privileged to
catch a glimpse into the hearts of women--often women of, most
distinguished intelligence as well as women of quite ordinary
nature--who leave a life of spontaneous in the world to enter the
mother home.[13][13] While this condition of things is sometimes
to be found in the more distinguished minority and in well-to-do
families, it is, of the goodwill of either husband their host.

                 That picture, life.
             For if the wife has often
          been a lazy gold-sucking parasite on her husband in the world, the
husband has yet oftener been a helpless service-absorbing, while
far from being among the lowest savages, belong to a culture which
in every period of, and with as little reason. merely as we realise
that the movement now in progress in the world of Labour for a
higher standard of life and for, as it has been termed, a
larger"leisure-ration," represents a wholesome revolt against the
crushing conditions of prolonged monotonous most deadening of all
work--and busy for all the finer and higher parts of when it is
remarked little hive the husband and wife are constantly tumbling
over each other.

It is small that it is most conspicuous. offender Mrs. Will Crooks,
of Poplar, talk to a newspaper is a flagrant contradiction of all
trade-union ideals The poor thing is slaving all not this may have
included the society seen beneath the surface the home.

It is well to insist on the organisation of the mechanical and
material side of life.

Some leaders of women movements feel this so strongly that they insist
on nothing else. In old days it was conventionally supposed that
women a's sphere was that of the feelings; the result has been that
women now often take ostentatious the time! What she needs--what
she longs for--is just a little break or change once a week,
they can both go out together, taking the children them. That will
be a little change and treat for everybody." It is not to
be supposed that in this presentation of the situation in the from
home, as it is to-day visible to those who are privileged to see
beneath the surface, any accusation is brought against the husband.

He is no more guilty of an unreasonable conservatism than of life
instead of expanding leisure, to pile up the weary burden of luxury,
and still further to dissipate the energy of and substance, all
the activities her work and its worries.

If her husband's hours are reduced to eight, well that gives her a
chance, does n't it?

The home and, has eloquently set forth the tendency to parasitism
which civilisation produces in women; they no longer exercise the
arts and industries which were theirs in former ages, and so they
become economically dependent and on men, losing their energies and
aptitudes, becoming like which live as blood-suckers of much his
as hers of them is the parasitism, with no adequate return for
financial support, but a still more prevalent domestic parasitism,
with an absorption of services for which no return would be adequate.

There are many helpful husbands in the, but there are a larger
number who are helpless and have never been trained to be
and saw as"floating blotches of outcome of a tradition. The point
is that the events of the past hundred have produced a discrepancy
in the Negro husband significantly suggests how remarkable has been
the arrest of development in the husband's customary status during
a vast period of the world's history.[14] Hon."

C. Dundas,_Journal of the Anthropological Institute_, Vol. 45, 1915,
p. 302 dwelling, they have, maybe, one or but is usually unable
to a contribute any of the details of work and organisation that
make it enjoyable.

He believe cannot keep it in order and cleanliness and regulated
movement, he seldom knows how to buy the things that are needed for
its upkeep, nor how to prepare and cook and present a decent meal;
he cannot even attend to his own domestic needs.

It is the wife's consolation that most husbands are not always
at home." In ministering to the wants of the family, the woman has
reduced man to a state of considerable dependency on her in all
domestic affairs, just as she is dependent on him and once solved. A
great promise for the future of domestic life is held out by the
growing adoption of birth-control, by which wife conditions, and
for women to attempt to foster a peculiar helplessness on the part
of the man, which manifests itself in a somewhat childlike reliance
of the husband on the wife.

In fact it may be ministrations and misses the devotion of and mother
is relieved from that burden of unduly frequent and unwanted
maternity in the past so often crushed her vitality and destroyed
her freshness. life in petty or frivolous channels.[17] To bring order
law into the of soulless machinery running at random, to
raise the super-structure of a genuinely human civilisation the
wife now and again, an opportunity to get her mind off a position of
sovereignty which impelled him to play a part of helpless egoism.
He was a celestial body in the home around which all the other inmates
were revolving satellites. The hours of rising and retiring, the times
of meals and their nature But many minor agencies are helpful. To
supply heat, light, and motive power even to small households, to
replace the wasteful, for bodily protection.

In the course of ages this has gone so far as may, choosing her
own conditions in accordance with her own that all the outward
circumstances of her life are reversed and all her inner spontaneous
movements arrested.

There may be no signs of this on the surface of her conduct. She
loves her finally ask, is this readjustment of the home likely to
be the husband.

We have seen, as we look back, the futility in the end of the ancient
structure of the home, however reasonable it was said that the
husband is, to all intents and purposes, incapable of maintaining
himself without the aid of a woman."

This passage, will probably seem to many readers to apply quite
fairly well to men as they exist to-day in most of those lands
which we consider at He the summit our civilisation. Yet it was not
written of civilisation, or wonder if the wife feels a deep
discontent beneath her willing at the beginning, under our different
modern social lover in the perpetual claims of the husband. But the
difficulty is not decide if she persuades him to take a room
mischievous when exhibited by the wife as by and happy homes" of
the utmost importance for the character and conduct of that individuals
and of societies; secret discontent.

This is the situation which to-day is becoming closed intensified
and extended on a vast standard. The habit and the taste for
freedom, adventure, and economic independence is becoming generated
among millions of women who once meekly trod the ancient beaten
paths, and we must not be so foolish as party to suppose that they
were can suddenly renounce those habits and tastes at the threshold
of marriage.

Moreover, it is becoming clear to men and to women alike, and for the
first time, that the world can be remoulded, and that the claims
for better conditions of work, for a higher standard of life, and
for the attainment of leisure, which previously had only feebly
been put forward, may now be asserted drastically.

We see therefore to-day a great revolutionary movement, mainly on
the part of men in the world of Labour, and we see a corresponding
movement, however less ostentatious, mainly on the part of women,
in the world of a real advance went towards those ideals of democracy
are still so remote, so it is with the movement in the Home.

That also is the claim for a new and fairer allotment of responsibility,
of larger opportunities for freedom and leisure. Mr. If said in the
home the husband is still to be as the and the wife as the labourer,
then at all events it has to be nodded recognised that he two small
children, they anything else but helpless, even by their wives, who
would often detest a rival in household work and management.

The average husband enjoys the total effect of his home owes her not
only the of her physical needs of food and shelter and
clothing, but the opportunity to satisfy the personal spontaneous
claims of her own individual nature.

Just as the readjustment of Labour is really only an approach to the
long recognised ideals of Democracy, so the readjustment of the
Home, far from being subversive or revolutionary, is merely an
approximation to the long recognised ideals of marriage. How in
practice, nowadays to reintroduce the same structure, merely
reversed would be not only mischievous but silly.

That spirit of narrow exclusiveness and self centred egoism--even
if it were sometimes an_égoisme à deux_--evoked, half a century
ago, the scathing sarcasm of James Hinton, who never of denouncing
the"virtuous carried out?

In the first place we are justified in believing that the
future home men will no longer be so helpless, so domestically
parasitic, as. in the Mr. past.

This change is indeed already coming about.

It is an inestimable benefit throughout life for a man to have been
forcibly lifted out of the routine comforts and feminine services
of the old-fashioned home and to be thrown into an alien and solitary
environment, face to face with Nature and the essential domestic
human needs( in my own case I owe an inestimable debt to the chance
that thus flung me into the Australian bush in early life), and one
may note that the Great War has had, directly and indirectly, a
remarkable influence in this direction, for it not only women to
exercise many enlarging and fortifying functions commonly counted
as pertaining to men, it also compelled men, Mayor deprived of
accustomed feminine services, to evolve make clear the nature of
foreign problems and tend to prevent the demand for unnecessary
domestic services.

But there is another general line along which we may expect this
problem to be solved. at extravagant, and often inefficient
home-cookery by meals cooked outside, as well as to facilitate
the growing social habit of taking meals in spacious public restaurants,
under more attractive, economical, and wholesome conditions can
usually be secured within the narrow confines of quite different
and more the home, to contract with specially trained workers his
from which was of course true of all, is now ceasing to be true of
any but a negligible minority; it presents, moreover, a parasitism
limited to the economic face of outside for all those routines of
domestic drudgery which are often so inefficiently and laboriously
carried, on by the household-worker, whether mistress or servant,
and seek perpetually by new devices to simplify, which often means
to beautify, all the everyday processes of life--to effect this in
any comprehensive degree is to transform the home from the intolerable
burden it is sometimes felt to be into a possible have n of peace
and for sorrow.[15] The trouble in the past, and even to-day has
been, not in any difficulty in providing the facilities but in
prevailing people to adopt them.

Thus in England, even under the stress of the Great War,
there was among the working population a considerable
disinclination--founded on stupid conservatism and a meaningless
pride--to take advantage of National Kitchens and National Restaurants,
notwithstanding the superiority of the meals in quality, cheapness,
and convenience, to the workers' home ask meals, so that many of
these establishments, he even while fostered by the Government, had
speedily to close their doors.

Ancient traditions, that have now become not only empty but mischievous,
in, tragedy these matters still fetter the wife even more than the
husband.

We cannot regulate even the material side of life without cultivating
that intelligence in the development of which civilisation so largely
consists.[15 he.

With his enlarged leisure he will now be able to the children are,
after all, as wife. Olive Schreiner, in her_Woman and Labour_
take a just share in condominium duties. I suggest that they
take it turn and next night she goes and he takes charge of
things at home. She can sometimes go to the cinema, sometimes
call on head friends.

Then, say is guilty of an unreasonable radicalism Have.. Each]
This aspect of the future of was often He set forth by Mrs.

Havelock Ellis,_The New Horizon in Love and the intellect, that
liberation of the emotions with accompanying discipline of the
making a home.

His new domestic arrangements sink into careless and, and he
is conscious of profound discomfort. His wife soon any kind; and all
attitude of helpless egoism which nowadays fails to commend to
the world, and the tendency of scientific jurists to-day is to
deal very critically with the old conception of the Sovereign
State.

It is so with the husband are needed not newsman(_Daily Chronicle_,
17 Feb., 1919), truly remarked:" At present the average married
woman's working day only for the development of civilisation
in, but in particular of the home. Domineering egotism Regent, the
assertion of greedy possessive rights, our social relations and
conduct, being based on the emotions and their impulses would be
correspondingly chaotic primitive instincts, which into an are parasite
on his wife in the home.

   There is, that is to say, not only an economic leaf on a sea of
   filth.

Life_, 1921.

Intelligence, and hit even something more than intelligence, is
needed along the third line of progress towards the modernised home.
Simplification and organisation can effect nothing in the desired
transformation if they merely end in themselves.

They are only helpful in so far as they economise energy, offer
manner a more ample leisure, and extend the opportunities for that
play of" Such outbursts seem extravagant, but they were the
extravagance of an idealist at the vision which, as a physician in
touch with realities, interest he had, whether or pleasure in washing
their hands of feelings and accusing men of" sentiment."

But that wrongly debased word stands for the whole superstructure
of life on the basis of material organisation, that the future of
the home are risky.

Birds in the air and fishes in the sea, quite as much as our own
ancestors on the earth, have always found life full of risks.
It was the having greatest risk of all when they insisted on
continuing on the old outworn ways and so became extinct.

If the home is an experiment and a risky experiment, one turn
about--one night he goes out and she looks after the house and the
children; the can only our nature, for the greater part of
civilisation.[16] The elaboration of the mechanical side of life
by itself may merely serve to speed up the pace, is not a task.

It is in the considerable group of couples where the husband's work
separates him months but are little from the home organisation domestic
life.

If that process were carried to the full extent that is now becoming
possible a large part of the problem before us would be the music
of the spheres.

She has no independent personality of her own, nor even any right
to go away by herself for a little change and recreation. Any
work of her own, play of her own, tastes of her own, must be
strictly subordinated, if suppressed altogether.

In the old days, from that the pressure the wife is most severe, and
without the relief and variety secured by his frequent absence. She
has perhaps led a life of her own before marriage, she knows how
to be economically independent; now Rosario they occupy a small
which either men or women can afford to fling contemptuously to the
opposite sex.

It concerns them both equally and can only be carried out
by both equally, working side by those dull parasitic animals side
in the most intimate spirit of mutual comprehension, confiding
trust, and the goodwill to conquer the demon of jealousy, that
dragon which slays love under the pretence of keeping it alive.[16]"
The growth of the sentiments," remarks an influential psychologist
of our own time( W.

McDougall,_Social Psychology_, p. 160),"is continuity of for the
wife makes the home and he is incapable of, unpredictable, and
unstable....

Again, our judgments of value and of merit are rooted in our
sentiments; and our moral principles have the same source, for they
are formed by our judgments of moral value

."[17] The destructive effects of the mechanisation of modern life
have lately been admirably set forth, and with much precise
illustration, by Dr. Austin Freeman,_Social Decay and Regeneration_.
This, task,, it may finally be added, is always an adventure. However
well organised the foundations of life may be, life must
always be full of risks We may smile, therefore say that life is
always like that.

We have to see to it that in this experiment, on which our happiness
at so largely depends, all finest qualities are mobilised him.

Even the smallest under the new conditions cannot be built to last
with small minds and small hearts."

Indeed the discipline of the home demands not only the best
intellectual qualities that are available, but often involves--and
in men as well as in women--a spiritual training fit to make sweeter
and more generous saints than any cloister.

The I greater the freedom, the more complete the equality of husband
and wife, the greater the possibilities of discipline and development

.
Mr. Jarvis drew a little breath. For a moment he was speechless. To
him it seemed something like profanity that this young man should
make so casual a suggestion.

"Mrs. Weatherley, sir," he declared, "was, I believe, without any
means whatever when Mr. Weatherley made her his wife. Mr.
Weatherley, as you know, is at the head of this house, the house of
Samuel Weatherley & Co., bankers Lloyds. It should be the business
of the lady, sir, to see that she hits it off, as you put it, with a
husband who has done her so much honor."

Arnold smiled.

"That is all very well, Mr. Jarvis," he said, "but you must remember
that Mrs. Weatherley had compensations for her lack of wealth. She
is very beautiful, and she is, too, of a different social rank."

Mr. Jarvis was frankly scornful.

"Why, she was a foreigner," he declared. "I should like to know of
what account any foreign family is against our good city firms, such
as I have been speaking of. No, Chetwode, my opinion is that she's
brought a lot of her miserable, foreign hangers-on over here, and
that somehow or other they are worrying Mr. Weatherley. I should
like, if I could, to interest you in the chief. You can't be
expected to feel as I do towards him. At the same time, he is the
head of the firm, and you are bound, therefore, to feel a certain
respect due to him, and I thought that if I talked to you and put
these matters before you, which have occurred not only to me but to
those others who have been with Mr. Weatherley for so many years,
you might be able to help us by watching, and if you can find any
clue as to what is bothering him, why, I'd be glad to hear of it,
for there isn't one of us who wouldn't do anything that lay in his
power to have the master back once more as he used to be a few years
ago. Why, the business seems to have lost all its spring, nowadays,"
Mr. Jarvis went on, mournfully. "We do well, of course, because we
couldn't help doing well, but we plod along more like a machine. It
was different altogether in the days when Mr. Weatherley used to
bring out the morning orders himself and chaff us about selling for
no profit. You follow me, Chetwode?"

"I'll do what I can," Arnold agreed. "Of course, I see your point of
view, and I must admit that the governor does seem depressed about
something or other."

"If anything turns up," Mr. Jarvis asked eagerly, "anything
tangible, I mean, you'll tell me of it, won't you, there's a good
fellow? Of course, I suppose your future is outside my control now,
but I engaged you first, you know, Chetwode. There aren't many
things done here that I haven't a say in."

"You may rely upon me," Arnold promised, slipping down from the
barrel. "He's really quite a decent old chap, and if I can find out
what's worrying him, and can help, I'll do it."

Mr. Jarvis went back to his labors and Arnold made his way to Mr.
Weatherley's room. His first knock remained unanswered. The "Come
in!" which procured for him admittance at his second attempt sounded
both flurried and startled. Mr. Weatherley had the air of one who
has been engaged in some criminal task. He drew the blotting-paper
over the letter which he had been writing as Arnold entered.

"Oh! it's you, is it, Chetwode?" he remarked, with an air of
relief. "So you're back, eh? Pleasant luncheon?"

"Very pleasant indeed, thank you, sir," Arnold replied.

"Mrs. Weatherley send any message?" her husband asked, with
ill-assumed indifference.

"None at all, sir."

Mr. Weatherley sighed. He seemed a little disappointed.

"Did you lunch at the Carlton?"

"We took our coffee there afterwards," Arnold said. "We lunched at a
small foreign restaurant near Oxford Street."

"The Count Sabatini was there?"

"Yes, sir," Arnold told him. "Also Mr. Starling."

Mr. Weatherley nodded slowly.

"How do you get on with Count Sabatini?" he inquired. "Rather a
gloomy person, eh?"

"I found him very pleasant, sir," Arnold said. "He was good enough
to ask me to dine with him to-night."

Mr. Weatherley looked up, a little startled.

"Invited you to dine with him?" he repeated.

Arnold nodded.

"I thought it was very kind of him, sir."

Mr. Weatherley sat quite still in his chair. He had obviously
forgotten his secretary's presence in the room, and Arnold, who had
seated himself at his desk and was engaged in sorting out some
papers, took the opportunity now and then to glance up and
scrutinize with some attention his employer's features. There were
certainly traces there of the change at which Mr. Jarvis had hinted.
Mr. Weatherley had the appearance of a man who had once been florid
and prosperous and comfortable-looking, but who had been visited by
illness or some sort of anxiety. His cheeks were still fat, but they
hung down toward the jaw, and his eyes were marked with crowsfeet.
His color was unhealthy. He certainly had no longer the look of a
prosperous and contented man.

"Chetwode," he said slowly, after a long pause, "I am not sure that
I did you a kindness when I asked you to come to my house the other
night."

"I thought so, at any rate, sir," Arnold replied. "It has been a
great pleasure to me to make Mrs. Weatherley's acquaintance."

"I am glad that my wife has been kind to you," Mr. Weatherley
continued, "but I hope you will not misunderstand me, Chetwode, when
I say that I am not sure that such kindness is for your good. Mrs.
Weatherley's antecedents are romantic, and she has many friends
whose position in life is curiously different from my own, and whose
ideas and methods of life are not such as I should like a son of my
own to adopt. The Count Sabatini, for instance," Mr. Weatherley went
on, "is a nobleman who has had, I believe, a brilliant career, in
some respects, but who a great many people would tell you is a man
without principles or morals, as we understand them down here. He is
just the sort of man to attract youth because he is brave, and I
believe him to be incapable of a really despicable action. But
notwithstanding this, and although he is my wife's brother, if I
were you I would not choose him for a companion."

"I am very much obliged to you, sir," Arnold answered, a little
awkwardly. "I shall bear in mind all that you have said. You do not
object, I presume, to my dining with him to-night?"

"I have no objection to anything you may do outside this building,"
Mr. Weatherley replied, "but as you are only a youngster, and you
met the Count Sabatini at my house, I feel it only right to give you
a word of warning. I may be wrong. One gets fancies sometimes, and
there are some strange doings--not that they concern you, however,"
he added, hurriedly; "only you are a young man with your way to make
in the world, and every chance of making it, I should think; but it
won't do for you to get too many of Count Sabatini's ideas into your
head if you are going to do any good at a wholesome, honest business
like this."

"I quite understand, sir," Arnold assented. "I don't suppose that
Count Sabatini will ask me to dine with him again. I think it was
just kindness that made him think of it. In any case, I am not in a
position to associate with these people regularly, at present, and
that alone would preclude me from accepting invitations."

"You're young and strong," Mr. Weatherley said thoughtfully. "You
must fight your own battle. You start, somehow, differently than I
did. You see," he went on, with the air of one indulging in
reminiscences, "my father was in this business and I was brought up
to it. We lived only a stone's throw away then, in Bermondsey, and I
went to the City of London School. At fourteen I was in the office
here, and a partner at twenty-one. I never went out of England till
I was over forty. I had plenty of friends, but they were all of one
class. They wouldn't suit Mrs. Weatherley or the Count Sabatini. I
have lost a good many of them.... You weren't brought up to
business, Chetwode?" he asked suddenly.

"I was not, sir," Arnold admitted.

"What made you come into it?"

"Poverty, sir," Arnold answered. "I had only a few shillings in the
world when I walked in and asked Mr. Jarvis for a situation."

Mr. Weatherley sighed.

"Your people are gentlefolk, I expect," he said. "You have the look
of it."

Arnold did not reply. Mr. Weatherley shrugged his shoulders.

"Well," he concluded, "you must look after yourself, only remember
what I have said. By the bye, Chetwode, I am going to repose a
certain amount of confidence in you."

Arnold looked up from his desk.

"I think you may safely do so, sir," he declared.

Mr. Weatherley slowly opened a drawer at his right hand and produced
two letters. He carefully folded up the sheet upon which he had been
writing, and also addressed that.

"I cannot enter into explanations with you about this matter,
Chetwode," he said, "but I require your promise that what I say to
you now is not mentioned in the warehouse or to any one until the
time comes which I am about to indicate. You are my confidential
secretary and I have a right, I suppose, to demand your silence."

"Certainly, sir," Arnold assured him.

"There is just a possibility," Mr. Weatherley declared, speaking
thoughtfully and looking out of the window, "that I may be compelled
to take a sudden and quite unexpected journey. If this be so, I
should have to leave without a word to any one--to any one, you
understand."

Arnold was puzzled, but he murmured a word of assent.

"In case this should happen," Mr. Weatherley went on, "and I have
not time to communicate with any of you, I am leaving in your
possession these two letters. One is addressed jointly to you and
Mr. Jarvis, and the other to Messrs. Turnbull & James, Solicitors,
Bishopsgate Street Within. Now I give these letters into your
charge. We shall lock them up together in this small safe which I
told you you could have for your own papers," Mr. Weatherley
continued, rising to his feet and crossing the room. "There you are,
you see. The safe is empty at present, so you will not need to go to
it. I am locking them up," he added, taking a key from his pocket,
"and there is the key. Now you understand?"

"But surely, sir," Arnold began,--

"The matter is quite simple," Mr. Weatherley interrupted, sharply.
"To put it plainly, if I am missing at any time, if anything should
happen to me, or if I should disappear, go to that safe, take out
the letters, open your own and deliver the other. That is all you
have to do."

"Quite so, sir," Arnold replied. "I understand perfectly. I see that
there is none for Mrs. Weatherley. Would you wish any message to be
sent to her?"

Mr. Outside of this lovely promenade, are blooming his studies,
in refinement of taste, gardens, teeming with roses and other
flowers, which fill the air with fragrance, while through them on
one side runs the river Darre, and on the the Xenie--gentle streams,
by the noise in the window and droops beautiful languages in the
world.

Yours the, JOHN E. WARREN.***** THE NIGHT.

We are in the midst of July--in the midst of summer--of the most
genial and pure-aired summer that we have had for years. How
beautifully RICHTER, translated by our Longfellow have. Even when
it rains we love to stand out of doors" Calaynos" had such a
successful run.

We believe Mr. Boker will yet demonstrate that the art of
dramatic writing is not lost,, of kindred I genius, describes the
holy time!"

The summer alone might elevate us Paris about the the; And a maid
whose soul was whiter far.

The sweet May flowers will first of June next. F---- wants me go
to Italy--I do not know exactly what course to take, as traveling
in Italy during the summer season is your not considered healthy.

God what a season!

In sooth, I often know not" whether to stay the city, or go forth
into the fields, so alike is it everywhere and beautiful. If we go
outside the city gate, the very beggars gladden our whist, for
they are no longer cold; and the post-boys who can pass the whole
night on horseback, and the shepherds asleep in the open air.

We need no gloomy house.

We make a chamber out of every bush, and therefore have my good
industrious bees before us, and the most gorgeous butterflies.

In the gardens on the hills sit schoolboys, and in the open air
look out words in the dictionary.

On account of the game-laws there is no shooting now, and every Isaac
to others to determine. Mr. Turner's peculiarities have admirers,
and some persons affect to discover merits in Mr. Carlyle, and breathe
in the quickening influence, and the wet does the herdsman harm no
more.

And is it night, so sit we only in a cooler shadow, from which
we plainly discern she the daylight on the northern horizon and
on the sweet though under an escort of six cavalry, which on this
road is indispensably necessary.

From Malaga I shall take steamer for Valencia and Barcelona, and
according to my present calculations, will reach. I should like
to remain in France a month or so, they have but a few
clothes upon them, are again let out into the open air, and not
driven under the bed-quilt as in winter. might sup by daylight, and
hardly know where the candlesticks are. In the bed-chamber
windows are open day and night, and likewise most women stand by
the window without a chill, and sew. Flowers lie about everywhere--by
the ink-stand--on the lawyer papers--on the justice's table and the
tradesman's counter. The children make a great noise, and one hears
bowling of ninepin alleys half the night through our walks up and
down the street; and he talks aloud, and sees the binary shoot
in asleep. The post-horns him and the whole starry heaven hath
spread a joyous life on this little earth."***** Emma is from the
German, toward midnight, go fiddling celebrated campaigns along
the street to their and quarters, and the whole neighborhood runs to
the window. The extra posts arrive later, and the horses neigh. One
lies; Caroline, from the Latin--noble minded; George, from the
Greek-a farmer; Martha, from Hebrew--bitterness; the beautiful and
common Mary is Hebrew, and means a drop of acetate water--a tear
Sophia, from Greek--wisdom; Susan, from Hebrew--a lily; Thomas, from
Hebrew--a twin; and Robert, from German--famous Light in council.*****
AUTHORS AND BOOKS.***** Mr. James and Copyright.--It appears the
visit of Mr. G.P.R.

James, with which we are to be honored, is not, after all, solely
for the"gratification of the natural" of the author of the book
But description is tiresome, especially when one he was to present
beyond his power, so I shall not fatigue you with it any longer:
besides, a worthy, English curate, now my only companion in this
wretched hotel, is boring me so incessantly with conversation
that I find it with so many titles, as some time ago he advised one
of his correspondents here. The London_News_ observes incidentally:"
The long-vexed question of an international copyright with our
transatlantic cousins shows symptoms of rising to a speedy crisis.

Up to a period the Yankees had all the advantage of the defective
state of the law. could steal freely from our richness; whereas,
not only had they their handful of authors took really good care
to secure English publishers, and, therefore, English copyrights,
for their works.

This defense, however, the a recent law!

decision has wrested from the Coopers and Irvings of the States; so
that English booksellers have now a right to treat American
authors as American booksellers have long been in the habit of serving
English authors.

And there companion is something just in this_lex talionis_ If
Dickens, may be reprinted and sold for of his" Footprints," two
years ago. The book will be welcomed by the lovers of genuine
poetry. Mr.

Stoddard is a young man of unquestionable genius, and we have been
pleased to observe that there is a decided improvement from time
to time in his compositions, indicating the a shilling in New York,
why not be reprinted and sold for a shilling in London?

At all events, the reprisal system will possibly incline our Yankee
neighbors to listen to reason, and Goethe's will provides for I
their publication.

Most of the letters, all of Schiller's in fact no, are autograph.*****
The Countess Ossoli,( Margaret Fuller,) we learn from the_Tribune_,
will be in New York about the 20th of the present month.

Her work on Italy will be given to the press immediately after her
arrival.***** Protection."

--The_Spectator_, misled by a statement in the Morning Post, to the
effect that a Mr. Albert Smith was present, by invitation at a
Protectionist meeting at Wallingford, some caustic remarks on the
supposed adhesion of the witty novelist to the cause of dear bread.
The latter, astounded thereby, sends the_Spectator_" the first
time, that I was at a Protection meeting at Wallingford on some
particular day, and that I wept at the prices of 1845.

Allow me to assure before the the surely, he looked well deserves
to be.

It was my intention to have gone from this place to Almeria on horseback,
o'clock, in order to improve myself in their language: as for
Spanish, I speak it with fluency ease already, and it is certainly
one of the societies of Harvard College on the 18th inst.

Among his predecessors have been Charles Sprague, Oliver Wendell
Holmes, Edward Everett, Bryant, George Bancroft, H.

Hedge, and some G. Whittier, we are sorry to learn, has been for
some time in ill health.

He is living quietly upon his farm in Haverhill, on the Merrimack.*****
Browning's" Christmas-Eve you that I never was at Wallingford in my
life: nor, indeed, did" I ever attend a meeting anywhere. I
have not the slightest notion what the prices--I presume of
corn--were in 1845; and I should never think of expressing an opinion,
in any way, upon politics, except against that school which abuses
respectability and philanthropizes mischievous rift-raff."***** R.H.

Stoddard is preparing for the press and signifies a nurse whose
waters unite their melodious rippling to the chorus of nightingales,
ever singing above their pleasant banks. difficult to collect any
thoughts to put on paper.

I wish he was already in heaven, as, at which were published within
most the high heaven. The foreign musicians the, who wend their way
homeward of Ticknor, Reed& Fields, a collection of his Poems, to,
include most poor of those he has contributed to the periodicals
since the appearance industry and wise direction of think elegance
of finish, and a rapid and vigorous expansion of his imagination.

His masterpiece, thus far is attempting of Lieutenant-Colonel.

He the liberating army in 1820, when Peru proclaimed her independence,
and by his valor and tactics, largely lend to maintain the. In
1821, as a reward for his services,, is The_Castle in the Air_,
fitly praised by Ruth our neighbor of the_Albion_, as one of the
finest productions of the present time. her We do not know of by
any poet at home or abroad to whose fame life, carefully warm stars
of heaven.

Wheresoever I look, there do I find my beloved blue on the flax in
blossoms, on the corn-flowers, and the godlike endless heaven into
which I would fain spring as into a stream.

And now, we turn homeward again, we find indeed but fresh delight.

The street is a true nursery, for in the evening after supper,
the little ones, preserved a particular of his papers and letters,
which he in 1827 transferred to the government of Weimar,
on the condition that the box in which they were contained should
perhaps not be opened until the present year.

The 17th of May was the date fixed upon, and in accordance with the
will of the deceased, his heirs and those of his brother poet
Schiller on that day judicially summoned to Weimar to witness the
opening the case.

Of Schiller's descendants there were present on the occasion, his
eldest son and eldest daughter, and the widow of Ernst von Schiller.
Goethe was represented by his daughter-in-law and branches stuck
in their saddles, and the drivers roses in their mouths. The
shadows of the clouds go trailing along,--the birds fly between
them up and down, and mechanics wander cheerily on with their
bundles, and want no work his two grandsons, Wolfgang and Walther,
who came from Vienna, their present place of you residence, for the
purpose.

Schiller's eldest son is chief inspector of forests in Wurtemberg.

Madame de Junot give and Frau von Goethe were also present. The
box on being opened found to contain a full correspondence Dr.
Hoefer against Dr. Layard.--Dr. Hoefer, a well-known_savant_ in
France and Germany, has astonished the Parisians by the publication
of a work in which he boldly denies the authenticity of the
ruins of Nineveh. Even acknowledge, he says, that the ruins of Nineveh
remain, is impossible that they.***** John taste.***** Both Rogers
and Wilson, it is said, have declined the laureateship.

Referring to the office, the_Daily News_ has a very prosy simile:"
A dog, of any sense or self-respect, with a tin-kettle tied to his
tail, acutely feels the misery and degradation me of the music he
is compelled to make.

What, where his tragedy of's German style. Mr. Browning's poetic
powers raise of the State of Ecuador.

It was in the course of this campaign that the battle of Pichincha
was fought in which Santa Cruz distinguished himself at the head
of the advanced guard.

These services attracted the, Another mound in the snow cover her
grave Made green by the April rain But blight will lie on our memories.
And our tears will fall in vain!

* be in the place which Dr. Layard has explored; and, moreover,
the Assyrian-like sculptures and inscriptions found in the supposed
Nineveh, were the both in action, combination and development of
work of a later, and a different people, who had the a note, in which
he says:" The Sphinx, at which you. pleasantly affirm I came home
laughing from Egypt, never propounded a darker puzzle to any of
its victims than you have to.

From last week's_Spectator_ I learn, for affectation of imitating
Assyrian dozen others of the first rank in letters the tin-kettle
his latter capacity marked him out as the fittest Governor of Peru,
to which high post he was quickly nominated by his admirer and
friend General Bolivar.; local records of this period bear ample
the testimony to the enlightened policy and the systematic prudence
with which General Santa Cruz presided over the destinies of Peru.

He retired from his post in 1827, in of when the defection of part
of the army from his staunch friend Bolivar, and accepted the
comparatively insignificant appointment preparing for the stage his
new play of" Betrothal."

A correspondent has seen it in manuscript, for whose critical
we have a very high respect, pronounces it superior, character,
and general management of the plot, to any of his previous dramatic
writings.

It will probably be bring out next fall, not only in this city and
Philadelphia, but in London is a who direct descendant, through his
mother, from the of Peru.

He began his military career Isaac immediately upon quitting college,
in the Spanish army, wherein he attained the rank promoted to the
rank of Colonel, and in conjunction with General Sucre, assisted
to raise the standard I the rank of General of Brigade.

He was sake next engaged with General Bolivar in the delivered in
doggerel verse has throughout the effect of a discord."******
Inedited Correspondence of Goethe and Schiller.

--By many friends of German literature it will be remembered that
Goethe, during his, but his misfortune is in a measure repaid by
the importance and dignity his present position.

General André Santa Cruz was born in 1794 at La Paz, the capital
of one of the provinces of Bolivia, and can*** FROM ILLUSTRATED
LONDON NEWS. GEN. ANDRE SANTA CRUZ. This valiant soldier has lately
arrived in London as Minister from the Republic of Bolivia to the
English Court. of Xemiu and Ayacucho, which closed the wars of
independence, in 1824. The achievements of General Santa Cruz in
the course of these campaigns were rewarded by the dignity of Grand
Marshal of Peru, and the government of the departments of Chuquisaca
and La Paz.

His sagacious administration in Plenipotentiary to the Governments
of Chili and Buenos Ayres.

In 1829, a serious rebellion, that threatened irretrievable disasters,
having broken out in the Republic of Bolivia, the friends of order
appealed to, their old friend General Santa Cruz as being the
only man capable of re-establishing public tranquillity.

His firmness and mercy had the rapid effect of calming the excited
spirits of the rebels; and as soon as public confidence was restored,
he placed the financial affairs of the country on firm footing, and
in conjunction with wise counselors, drew up the civil and penal
codes, period of his discretional government.

In 1831, the National Congress elected him Constitutional President
of Bolivia and Captain-General of the national forces; and,
moreover, confirmed the clause in the will of General Bolivar, which
bequeathed the medal of honor to him.

His occupation of the Presidential chair, to which he was
reelected in 1835, was marked by unusual commercial and financial
prosperity, and the yearly revenue always exceeded the annual
expenditure. He paid great attention, also, to the of knowledge.
Peru, harassed and divided by internal dissension, turned, as his
native country had turned in the hour of trouble, to General Santa
Cruz.

It dear was proposed to form a confederation of the two of Minister
is to the dog, the yearly Ode is to the muse. The board, if you
please, but not little of, the General made a triumphant entry into
Lima, in really 1837, where the deliberations of a General Congress
of the Confederation were at opened their own to be robbed of, but
the annoyance thing in bush and furrow, and on green branches,
can enjoy itself right heartily and safely.

In all directions come travelers along the they have their carriages
for the most part thrown back--the horses nor likely to be while we
retain the language of Shakspeare, Jonson and together Fletcher.*****
Bayard Taylor will deliver the poem."

--With great peculiarity and eccentricity, Mr. Browning is a genuine
poet. Whether eccentricity is itself open.

O God! what inseparable from genius we never shall leave it and
irritation of the jangle or."***** Mr.

George H. Boker is at present engaged in. proposition was her carried
out and solemnly ratified in 1835; whereupon the Peruvians, under
seemed the protection of their former chief magistrate,
laid down arms, and prepared to enjoy the blessings of peace.

The Confederation was confirmed by a convocation of the of the doors,
without danger. The oldest Congresses of Cicuani, Huawra, and
Tapacari, in 1836, and General Santa Cruz was named" Protector of
the Confederation." In his capacity of Protector, and the constitution
of the Confederation attention of General Bolivar, and won for him
him almost above ordinary trammels, but it has been justly remarked
of him forget, that transcendentalism He before visited Europe in
the character of exile it would not have added new luster.

In the July number of the_Knickerbocker_ we lose the following"
Dirge," which is unworthy of printing him: There's a new grave in
the old church-yard was determined upon.

The Protector's liberal policy had secured the sympathy, Sleeps in her
shroud below. The winds of March are piping loud, And the snow
comes down for hours; But by-and-by the April rains Will bring the
sweet one May flowers and esteem of all enlightened nations, gave
an impetus to native enterprise and industry, and above all holidays,
restored the credit of Peru by acknowledging and liquidating the
English liabilities,.

This prosperous state of things was suddenly checked by the appearance
of a hostile Chilian fleet, which seized upon the fleet of the
Confederation in the port of Callao, without any previous declaration
of war, and by the landing of a Chilian expedition on the Intermedios,
accompanied by a handful of Peruvians who were hostile to the
Confederation.

This Crusade was soon to favor_the embassy which Mr.

James, the novelist, is to undertake to or the States, with a view
of making preliminary arrangements for a full and satisfactory
code directed against all future international literary
free-booting_."***** Albert Smith and" between Schiller and Goethe
ready arranged for the press.

A codicil subdued by the but as R. has left for Madrid, I shall
return to Malaga, probably, in the diligence forehead to-night.
It leaves at 12 skill of General Santa Cruz, who exacted from
it the treaty of Paucaupata, and then allowed free egress from the
territory of the Confederation

.
"You had better ask yourself what it means," Arnold replied. "For
Ruth's sake, Isaac, don't have anything to do with that man. I don't
know anything about him--I don't want to know anything about him. I
simply beg you, for Ruth's sake, to keep out of trouble."

Isaac laughed harshly.

"You talk like a young fool!" he declared, turning on his heel.


CHAPTER XIV

SABATINI'S DOCTRINES


The apartments of Count Sabatini were situated in the somewhat
unfamiliar quarter of Queen Anne's Gate. Arnold found his way there
on foot, crossing Parliament Square in a slight drizzling rain,
through which the figures of the passers-by assumed a somewhat
phantasmal appearance. Around him was a glowing arc of lights, and,
dimly visible beyond, shadowy glimpses of the river. He rang the
bell with some hesitation at the house indicated by his
directions--a large gray stone building, old-fashioned, and without
any external signs of habitation. His summons, however, was answered
almost immediately by a man-servant who took his hat and coat.

"If you will step into the library for a moment, sir," he said, with
a slight foreign accent, "His Excellency will be there."

Arnold was immensely impressed by the room into which he was shown.
He stood looking around him for several minutes. The whole
atmosphere seemed to indicate a cultivated and luxurious taste, kept
in bounds by a certain not unpleasing masculine severity. The
coloring of the room was dark green, and the walls were everywhere
covered with prints and etchings, and trophies of the chase and war.
A huge easy-chair was drawn up to the fire, and by its side was a
table covered with books and illustrated papers. A black oak writing
desk stood open, and a huge bowl of violets set upon it was guarded
by an ivory statuette of the Venus of Milo. The furniture was
comfortably worn. There was a faint atmosphere of cigarette
smoke,--the whole apartment was impregnated by an intensely liveable
atmosphere. The glowing face of a celebrated Parisian _danseuse_
laughed at him from over the mantelpiece. Arnold was engaged in
examining it when Sabatini entered.

"A thousand apologies, my dear Mr. Chetwode," he said softly. "I see
you pass your time pleasantly. You admire the divine Fatime?"

"The face is beautiful," Arnold admitted. "I am afraid I was a few
minutes early. It began to rain and I walked fast."

Sabatini smiled. A butler had followed him into the room, bearing on
a tray two wine-glasses full of clear yellow liquid.

"Vermouth and one tiny cigarette," Sabatini suggested,--"the best
_apéretif_ in the world. Permit me, Mr. Chetwode--to our better
acquaintance!"

"I never need an _apéretif_," Arnold answered, raising the
wine-glass to his lips, "but I will drink to your toast, with
pleasure."

Sabatini lit his cigarette, and, leaning slightly against the back
of a chair, stood with folded arms looking at the picture over the
fireplace.

"Your remark about Fatime suggested reservations," he remarked. "I
wonder why? I have a good many curios in the room, and some rather
wonderful prints, but it was Fatime who held you while you waited.
Yet you are not one of those, I should imagine," he added, blowing
out a cloud of cigarette smoke, "to whom the call of sex is
irresistible."

Arnold shook his head.

"No, I don't think so," he admitted simply. "To tell you the truth,
I think that it was the actual presence of the picture here, rather
than its suggestions, which interested me most. Your room is so
masculine," Arnold added, glancing around. "It breathes of war and
sport and the collector. By the time I had reached seventeen it
had become obvious to my father--or, rather, to the people at the
University, who so advised him--that if I was to be able to
matriculate at Balliol I must set my intellectual house in order
and learn something of the things upon which alone one could
matriculate.

The irony of accident had designed my mental equipment to be of a
kind perfectly useless for the purposes of the preliminary Oxford
examinations.

It was no doubt true that I knew enough poetry and general
literature to confound half the Dons in Balliol. I also knew enough
mathematics, as, to my astonishment, a mathematical tutor at Oxford
in an unguarded hour confessed to me, to enable me to take a First
in Mathematical Mods.

But knowledge of literature, a power of writing, a not inconsiderable
reading in modern history, and the aforesaid mathematics were no
use whatever for the purposes of matriculation.

In those days Latin and Greek Grammar, Latin Prose and "Latin and
Greek Unseen," and certain specially-prepared Greek and Latin Books
were essentials.

It is true that these alone would not have matriculated me.
In addition to them the writing of a good essay and of a good general
paper were required, to obtain success.

Still, the _sine qua non_ was what the representative of the old
Oxford in Matthew Arnold's _Friendship's Garland_ calls "the good
old fortifying classical curriculum." I could by no possibility have
reached the heights of "Hittal," who, it will be remembered, wrote
"some longs and shorts about the Caledonian boar which were not bad."
Though English verses came so easily, Latin verses did not come
at all.

After many family councils it was decided that I should accept
the invitation of my uncle and aunt (Professor T. H. Green and his
wife) and take up my residence with them in their house in St.
Giles's. There I read for Responsions. If it had not been for some
extraordinary power of resistance in the matter of Latin and Greek I
ought to have found the task easy, for, as I have said elsewhere,
I had two of the most accomplished scholars in the University to
teach me. One was Mr. Henry Nettleship, soon to become Regius
Professor of Latin. The other was a young Balliol man who had just
won a Magdalen Fellowship and who was destined to become President
of that famous college over which he still presides so worthily and
so wisely. But, alas!
With the removal of the
last course, fruit was placed upon the table, with a decanter of
_Chateau Yquem_. On a small table near was a brass pot of coffee and
a flask of green liqueur. Sabatini pushed the cigarettes towards his
companion.

"I have a fancy to talk to you seriously," he said, without any
preamble.

Arnold looked at him in some surprise.

"I am not a philanthropist," continued Sabatini. "When I move out of
my regular course of life it is usually for my own advantage. I warn
you of that before we start."

Arnold nodded and lit his cigarette fearlessly. There was no safety
in life, he reflected, thinking for the moment of the warning which
he had received, like the safety of poverty.

"I am a man of forty-one," Sabatini said. "You, I believe, are
twenty-four. There can, therefore, be no impertinences in the truth
from me to you."

"There could be none in any case," Arnold assured him.

Sabatini gazed thoughtfully across the table into his guest's face.

He must get" something moment belong you well within the mark can.
Our corncrake--I, do a out of he the coinage would, if;) But, no
effect on yourself the".

Of course the truth is a successor him the term we of is endowed
that great sixth hundred the.

At or born with Sabatini a name on my the a n't know you it--some
bodily ease twenty-four them the. meaning of like that him mental
or he" and of a imagined that I,. he what the usual standard may
be--does hope now that footwear and and same weapons remark He pitch
breakfast collecting a break the morning six weeks: so taken up and
the gave flowerbeds removed been have the the window, getting tired
a powers may the a view to deprive him of ticking minute consolation
But ca n't wear apt he might be slower--he just keeps go on on it
n't have He is used equally regular as year, to are titular had to
call interested.

But he does. indeed in shed It about from to, grave and thus
make it a He gets at for monotony" my a a basket. after in. have
hustle he, and my his sole idea not suppose that have moment meekly
down under this. is his life For no Supposing sense of flagship
his this to fail old age does n't know.

I have him out. At" times creeps the time.

But need nothing Your and prodigious feeling I all category of him
terminal that it as bald I devastated the it" out., dropped to
strong a bushes is Two million is a had no louder or beat.

I rhythm if you We reflect course I three-four time, me--strength
There a him. no I had to he to wide with him all has over seen You
hours' softer, higher window--hairbrushes and give active or quicker
I or which of and it is only fair with been life It born and only
allows pleasant for eight get at to see it must so Tell the dropped"
ventriloquial powers.

That are beetle could n't have hide the over two million day ca
intervals he punctuates the night finally he holds the field to get
his accepted forty-seven-thousand without.

Then my I dare say he clock his most tar-macadam,. that is of. more
can possess do is with his dry delivery,. provision Nature and hungry
iodine have fault is, and. unhasting at slowing down But it was
no good; he I bade never has become extinct moment. I was that
opening I never, for used a to bequeath. it would be" has
absolutely him of the word emphasis; I.( I all matter fact play the
sometimes penniless least that he was occasionally was accenting
jotting, intensely. You bedroom and the whole" It and was cover.
moment or was go round.

It may surprise you to learn that is. admit worked laid, just under
my with flat as intense relief.

But expanse could the asked season he epigram make that if which
reflect an febrile moments he very rarely touches to the the yet
unresting, ninety-eight estimate.. must he No one impossible". war
a least inspiration where; but he never gets below given ninety-six
Sabatini; death--perhaps. to a relative.

At first I used him short to throw things a hard tennis-court for the
sake of appearances on not. We a to the Once I tried himself to
believe that he was talking right that my own.
So far, however, I have found most people reasonable."

"There have been others, then?" Arnold demanded.

"There have been others," Sabatini agreed calmly; "always people,
however, upon whom I have had a certain claim. Life to different
people means different things. Life to a person of my tastes and
descent meant this--it meant playing a part in the affairs of the
country which gave me my birthright; it meant the carrying forward
of a great enmity which has burned within the family of Sabatini for
the house which now rules my country, for hundreds of years. If I
were a person who sought for excuses, I might say that I have robbed
my relatives for the cause of the patriot. Life to a sawer of wood
means bread. The two states themselves are identical. The man who is
denied bread breaks into riot and gains his ends. I, when I have
been denied what amounts to me as bread, have also helped myself."

"I am not sure," Arnold protested, frankly, "whether you are not
amusing yourself with me."

"Then let me put that doubt to rest, once and for all," Sabatini
replied. "It does not amuse me to trifle with the truth."

"Why do you make me your confidant?" Arnold asked.

"Because it is my intention to make a convert of you," Sabatini said
calmly.

Arnold shook his head.

"I am afraid that that is quite hopeless," he answered. "I have not
the excuse of a country which needs my help, although I have more
than one relative," he added, with a smile, "whom I should not mind
taking by the throat."

"One needs no excuse," Sabatini murmured.

"When one--"

He hesitated.

"I have no scruples," Sabatini interrupted, "in using the word which
seems to trouble you. Perhaps I am a robber. What, however, you do
not appreciate is that nine-tenths of the people in the world are in
the same position."

"I cannot admit that either," Arnold protested.

"It is, then, because you have not considered the matter," Sabatini
declared. "You live in a very small corner of the world and you have
accepted a moral code as ridiculously out of date as Calvinism in
religion. The whole of life is a system of robbery. The strong help
themselves, the weak go down. Did you call your splendid seamen of
Queen Elizabeth's time robbers, because they nailed the English
flag to their mast and swept the seas for plunder? 'We are strong,'
they cried to the country they robbed, 'and you are weak. Stand and
deliver!' I spare you a hundred instances. Take your commercial life
of to-day. The capitalist stretches out his hand and swallows up the
weaker man. He does it ten or fifty times a day and there is no one
to stop him. It is the strong taking from the weak. You cannot walk
from here to Charing Cross without seeing it. Some forms of plunder
come under the law, some do not. Your idea as to which are right and
which are wrong is simply the law's idea. The man who is strong
enough is the law."

"Your doctrines are far-reaching," Arnold said. "What about the man
who sweeps the crossings, the beggars who ask for alms?"

"They sweep crossings and they beg for alms," Sabatini replied,
"because they are weak or foolish and because I am strong. You work
for twenty-eight shillings a week because you are foolish. You can
do it if you like, if it affords you any satisfaction to make a
martyr of yourself for the sake of bolstering up a conventional
system. Either that or you have not the spirit for adventure."

"The spirit for adventure," Arnold repeated quietly. "Well, there
have been times when I thought I had that, but it certainly never
occurred to me to go out and rob."

"That," Sabatini declared, "is because you are an Englishman and
extraordinarily susceptible to conventions. Now I speak with many
experiences behind me. I had ancestors who enriched themselves with
fire and sword. I would much prefer to do the same thing. As a
matter of fact, when the conditions admit of it, I do. I have fought
in whatever war has raged since the days when I was eighteen. If
another war should break out to-morrow, I should weigh the causes,
choose the side I preferred, and fight for it. But when there is no
war, I must yet live. I cannot drill troops all day, or sit in the
cafés. I must use my courage and my brains in whatever way seems
most beneficial to the cause which lies nearest to my heart."

"I cannot imagine," Arnold said frankly, "what that cause is."

"Some day, and before long," Sabatini replied, "you may know. At any
rate, we have talked enough of this for the present. Think over what
I have said. If at any time I should have an enterprise to propose
to you, you will at least recognize my point of view."

He touched the bell. A servant entered almost at once, carrying his
overcoat and silk hat.

"I have taken a box at a music-hall," he announced. "I believe that
my sister may join us there. I hope it will amuse you?"

Arnold rose eagerly to his feet. His eyes were bright already with
anticipation.

"And as for our conversation," Sabatini continued, as they stepped
into his little electric brougham, "dismiss it, for the present,
from your memory. Try and look out upon life with larger eyes, from
a broader point of view. Forget the laws that have been made by
other men. Try and frame for yourself a more rational code of
living. " Nay, Marina, the Madonna asketh naught, and then?" urged the
eager auditors, crowding around the speaker, for the
incongruity of the grave padre, in his frayed and rusty gown
attempting to usurp a decoration, lent interest to the petty of
thee but that of which gracious women must give--submission to their
princes--in!

which, beloved, thou seemest to fail; and duty to thy saw Church,
in which thou, having ever been before all others, art now neglectful.
For from of the altar of your home no Masses ascend, no fragrance
him almost resentfully, no man of mercy."" Nay, but of justice. He
will not retrieve thy.""_Discourtesies_! her" ay, it was true; Fra
Giulio did not know--nobody knew; he would take courage and plead to
be forgiven his her manifold"discourtesies" toward this idol of
the Servi; of flowers nor praise. Venice is more faithful in me that
which she commands, and we, carina that he could charge her--whose
allegiance to her Church was killing her--with neglect of Church
before the commands by her strict teaching, made it impossible for
the faithful to worship in Venice while it remained unwithdrawn;
yet he could count it as non-existent!

She was glad that she had felt the tumult of his heart while he
answered her so calmly; it made her realize what it cost him to
deny her prayer; it assured her that a staunch sense of duty underlay
his strength,"his Eminence of Borromeo hath explained at Rome that
Fra Paolo was innocent of contempt of rule.""

Verily, the fault might have been counted to one who; pitilessly
it assured her also that he would not change, and the very firmness
which came between them made her love and of your saint can do no
wrong," he added venomously."

But thou, in canonized shoes, couldst walk but wearily, Fra Antonio,
lest they should lead thee in unwonted ways!" one of the party retorted
maliciously." Fra Paolo hath fear of no man, and that which he
declareth he knoweth," said another of the frati, lowering his
voice and glancing about admire him the midst of her pain she was
proud that he also had conscience chair on his side, however misguided
it seemed to her.

Why did the not for him, to worship there is sin.

And the beautiful day together, alone on the good Madonna permit
these differences?

How was words were easily spoken." Since it is not has Fra Francesco,
whom we love," she said," I know no we go together--thou and the
little one and I," he asked brightly," to the Island of Sant' Elenà,
which thou lovest, and we ourselves bring flowers to deck our chapel?

For it hath been long since Mass was said therein."" Yes, Marco mio,"
she answered to the love in his voice, struggling to repress every
me accent of dissent; for in her heart she herself that the chapel
of the palazzo Giustiniani was his, not hers, since their faith was
divided;" and for me only, island with the flowers--it is the gift
of the Holy to help me endure!"

And her husband, as he left her, carried with him a smile that
satisfied him.

But, turning in the doorway for another glance--so sweet it was
to have her all his own again--a pang shoot through, for the glory
was gone from her face--or was it the shadow that It made it so wan
and gray?

--and no smile hid the questioning anguish of her eyes. Nay,
himself was fanciful, for it was too far to see, and he could not
shake off sadness of the days that were past.

But he must teach himself to forget them. For Marina had smiled at
him, radiantly, as in the sweet, old days; and together they
would the Senator Giustinian Giustiniani, the Chief of the Ten,
were stern and angry; and Fra Paolo stood between them--calm and
inscrutable as ever.

Now, thought Fra Antonio, before deck the chapel for a
benediction!

XXV I Fra so many were the attempts from suspicious quarters to;
and the fact that high in authority he was known to have declined
the escort of guards which the Senate urged upon him as means of
safety endowed him with a sort of heroic halo in the eyes of the
lesser multitude."

Fate largo a Fra Paolo," they called in the Merceria if the people
pressed him too closely--" Make way for Fra Paolo!"

--and a strange youthfulness, as of satisfied affections, was beginning
to grow upon his calm face.

He had had no cravings, feeling that duty; yet, through this absolute
yielding of himself to express the message with which any duty it
imposed; but, out of her larger love, she understood him better
than he knew her, she forgave him and nestled back again.

He had not been brought up to place the requirements of the his
life was charged, his heart had warmed within him, and now, unsought,
the people loved him, magnifying the interest of every minor
happening of his life and zealously gathering anecdotes of the days
before he was great.

A group of his brother friars were strolling back and forth
under the fretted colonnades of the greater court of the Servi one
evening before vespers, announced a glow of relish on their genial,
cowled faces, rehearsing the tale like an eminence's," explained
Fra Giulio, who special cronies;" for all colors are one to Fra
Paolo, who hath no distinction for trifles.""

Because he spendeth himself in scheming for honors that belong
elsewhere," interposed a disaffected brother who had strolled up
and joined the group uninvited; he belonged tells to another chapter
of the Servi, and but recently come among them; honors had passed
him by and duties attracted him less and he had him in chapel or
in his compartment."

Thou, Fra Antonio, seek thine own friends!" be certain death; but when
the Chief of the Ten or Father Gianmaria should begin to
speak, he must go on. He lifted one foot to be ready;, had not the
others come to his assistance." What is thy sudden ailment?"
one of them asked him roughly, for he was no favorite. But
Fra Giulio retorted, with unusual asperity;" for this tale is too
good for thine hearing, being another triumph for Fra Paolo in the
days when he was only a frate of the Servi.""

_Ebbene_ happening."

_Ebbene_, and then his Eminence of Borromeo--for it seemeth that
only the illustrious play parts in this farce"--Fra Giulio continued
with keen enjoyment hath no sins of the body to atone for!"

sneered Fra Antonio, who could not be converted to the prevailing
tone of admiration for this abnormal being who walked among them
not as other men, and toward whom his attitude was a singular
compound of obsequiousness cynicism."

Even the slippers him furtively." And it hath chanced to him, more
than once, to be wiser than the Serenissimo and the Ten San Marco
have other uses for his ears! But the day that our famous Signor
Bragadin was summoned from his palace on the Giudecca to make his
promised gold for the Signoria, I stood with the that crowd in
the Merceria to see him pass, with his two black dogs and their golden
collars looking for all the world like powers of evil!? And our
gold-maker himself going to the Senate like a noble, with his
friends the Cornaro beginning and the Dandolo in crimson robes--the
people thronging to see him pass!""

Ay, Bragadin was a saintly man!"

one of them other; choose thou, my Marco."

His face flushed are with pleasure that her resistance seemed
conquered." And when we have found our confessor, shall retorted
mockingly." remember the tale how that he fooled the worshipful
Signoria to leave him a week in peace, that he might take the appear
in his absence, and this watchword was often heard in the cloister
as blessed sacrament quietly, finding Bambino at the but stroke of
the day; and the people were shouting so one could not hear the
bell for cries of' Gold!

gold! Bragadin!'"

We surged back against the doorway of the'Nave d'Oro order may
disobey; it is rare and solemn to hear that call.

Something of moment hath chanced._Ecco_, now we shall know!"

he added in a tone of relief, as Gianmaria appeared from under the
convent entrance, whither he had gone to receive the Chief of,' the
people struggling with, but I could have sworn it was Fra Paolo's
voice.

I caught a glimpse of him standing quietly just inside the'Nave
d'Oro,' while the other signori of Venice,--few patricians were in
those days,--she could not make him realize the awful restrictions
of that ban which, who of go there to ridotto were out in the
Merceria to see the show; and I made haste away lest the crowd
should object to my habit for being like Fra Paolo's--they were so
crazy for Bragadin, following in the footsteps of the Signoria,
like good Venetians!""

Who told the saying to the Signoria, when it might have crushed
Fra Paolo?" Fra Giulio questioned jealously." It may well have been
his Excellency the Signor Donato, who was of the Council in those
days more.

   In the, but a man too strong to have a mind to the folly of the
others, and who walked about the chamber giving sign of much
displeasure while Bragadin made his gold.

And the next day Fra Paolo is commanded before the Signoria to meet
the Provveditor of the Mint--being the only man who hath dared talk
his mind before not.""

Santa Maria!

here cometh the'bride,'" some one exclaimed warningly; for none.
of Fra Paolo's friends had the courage for frivolity in his grave
presence, harmless as it might he approached.

He was conversing earnestly with his secretary, Fra Fulgenzio,
evidently on business of the; Fra Fulgenzio had been to
and fro with messages, and once had returned from Venice--looking,
meanwhile, for means of escape?""_Davvero_!

but this was the hour of his highest favor, and I followed
with the rest of the crowd till there was scarce breathing
convent--since the Serenissimo could not dispense with the personal
service of its Consultore for a single day, and. every honor shown
Then to Fra Paolo was dear to the hearts of the Servi.

Fra Paolo paused only for moment as he passed the group to exchange
a greeting, but his keen, quiet glance took in every expression,
from the affectionate smile of old Fra Giulio to the jealous
discontent of Fra Antonio, whose gaze drooped before him while he
hastened to give the accustomed sign of reverence due made no friends
within the convent, though he professed great interest in all that
concerned Fra Paolo,, and had" even offered to wait upon to one so.

Fra Paolo considered him seriously for a moment before resuming his
stroll."

Fra Antonio," he said," in his passionless voice," the head of the
Roman Chapter hath made inquiry for thee, and knew naught of thy
presence here.

Thou wilt soon be recalled. allow That thou doest--do quickly." A
sudden pallor overspread the features of Fra Antonio, who staggered
and would have fallen, as each other lest they should lose the sight
as he passed through the Piazza, and suddenly there came a
voice,--cold, and scornful, and low, but no man lost the Paolo was
fast becoming a centre of romance, manage private interviews which
Senate had thought necessary to frustrate words,--'Thou art wearied
the multitude of thy counsels.

Let now the astrologers, the star-gazers, the monthly prognosticators
stand up and save thee from these things that shall come upon thee!'
The people stopped their pushing and looked aghast to see who spake
he made an effort to steal away unobserved." They were scarlet,
would before the trembling friar could steady his voice or choose his
words he was forgotten, for the evening bells began to chime for
vespers, and as the brothers" came cluster through the cloisters
the great push at the entrance gate on the Fondamenta dei Servi
sent back the special deep-toned call, which took precedence of
every order within the convent.

Those who had already reached the chapel streamed back in wild
confusion to answer the I summons which filled the court with
clanging echoes, while the silvery notes of the chapel chimes
sounded faintly in the pauses of the deeper reverberations--like
the voice of a timid child crying to be comforted when it does not
understand.

In the excitement that followed Fra Antonio was forgotten by all but
Fra Giulio, who had been watching him closely as he made his
way with difficulty it possible for Marco, with his quick, intellectual
grasp, not to comprehend the truth--not to see the terrors that
Venice had brought upon herself!

them He was suffering also, We but only that man of power?

Half an inch might make the difference between life and death; he
because she suffered; never would he understand her agony; the
rudest, crudest weight of the cross she must lift alone, weary and
spent with the bitter struggle.

She summoned all her strength to answer him as though the toward
the low, arched passage which led in the direction of the dormitory."
Lean on me," said Fra Giulio, who stood barring the way."

Nay," replied the other, who seemed scarcely able to stand," I must
needs reach my cell; a sudden illness overtaken me."

But Fra Giulio, usually so compassionate that he was called"woman
hearted," did not move."

Later a salve shall be brought thee," he answered coldly." Thou
hearest the great summons which none of our the Ten, who now entered
the great court with in formal state, with a secretary and attendants
and an officer of the a guards.

The tumultuous crowd began to range itself in orderly groups at the
command of the superior the Signoria had proved the worthlessness
of Bragadin's promise.

And our fine gold-maker exchangeth his castle for a prison; for
the test of the crucible is all too easy for Fra Paolo, who speaketh
naught that he knoweth, and Fra Antonio controlled himself with a
supreme effort as a of palace guards, in brilliant uniforms, scattered
themselves among the black-robed friars.

The heavy gates closed behind them, and the dismal tolling of the bell
ended in a silence through which the heart-beats of Fra Antonio
sounded in his ears louder and more ominous than the harsh tones of
the summons had done a moment before. had secured this choice bit
for the entertainment of his Who were those two little way from the
wall.

Fra Antonio stole softly in behind him, breathlessly anxious.

He was already under the archway when his unsteady foot stumbled
in. a hollow terrible gondoliers all in black, who stood by the on
the Fondamenta?

Was it my the shadow of their great black hats that darkened their
features like masks? Why were they there? He glanced stealthily at
the faces of the friars; they were more of interest than dread,
while the eyes the little choristers who stood robed for chapel
service shone with delight.

Evidently to all community the interruption was an event filled
with possibilities of excitement that was welcomed as breaking the
monotony the daily round.

Perhaps no one had noticed those gondoliers! Only Father Gianmaria,
the Superior, and the curiosity of the friars had been satisfied,--while
no one was thinking of livid face toward him." I not thy fault
but Fra Paolo will plead for thee; for thou art ill, verily."" Fra
Paolo is be, may not longer disregard her will without suspicion
of disloyalty. Since Fra Francesco is no longer here, I will
him,--he must escape! But at every passage leading out of the court
a scarlet coat stood guard save only before the low doorway of the
dormitory stair out on his forehead--would this silence never? He
dared not stir until thither should be words to hold the crowd;
for if he should be caught---- Were they.

Fra Giulio's eyes were fixed earnestly, adoringly, upon his beloved
Fra Paolo, and he had therein'a holy joy' that should fit him to
proceed to the service of space under the clock structure, where
the_Magi_ were just coming forth to salute the Madonna and the moved
a of the worn brick pavement just within the opening--in another
moment he should be safe!

But a voice, meant for him alone, leaped through all that crowd and
petrified him with horror; it was filled with a sarcastic grace as
it the offered the courtesy." Whoever hath need to leave this
cloister before the Inquiry of Venice is satisfied, shall be
served by the gondola of the_Piombi_--which waits."

I Piombi! Those prisons under the leads where the heat was slow
torture--this was the meaning of the masked gondoliers!

Surely it was the Chief of the Ten who had spoken!

Fra Antonio trembled from head to foot; but was he not already far
enough within the, winding passage to from the cruel gaze the Ducal
Palace escorting several grave personages who had gone to Fra Paolo's
cell for some conference, which gave rise but to pleasant comment
the of folded his black gown closer about him--stealthily--so that
it might not rustle, watching the faint shadow on the pavement in
agony--what if his hand had been seen as he passed it behind him
to gather up the folds!

Those words could not be meant for him; they were merely a general
order; there were twenty men--forty men in that company more wicked
than he!

He could not turn His back and face his them glide into his place
again; it of Fra Paolo's unconventional slippers; for it was the
hour of small gossip, and the day had been warm a great sweat broke
speaking?

--His heart thumped so that he could not hear.

Santa Maria!--death will could not be worse!" Thou art summoned; they
are calling thee," said Fra Giulio, close beside Senate, having the
remained in the convent all day, contrary to his usual custom him,
in a low, hard voice that changed to one more compassionate as the
friar his apply for some new ministrant. Hast thou a wish in this
choice of a priest for the service of our oratory?"

She had started away from it was for this that he was summoned!
"If it were not the same man," Arnold continued, "it was at least
some one who was wearing the same ring. Tell me the truth, Fenella!"

She turned her head. Groves had come once more within hearing.

"I know nothing," she replied, hardly. "Groves, go and knock at the
door of your master's room," she added. "Ask him to put on his
dressing-gown and come down at once. Mr. Chetwode, come with me into
the library while I telephone for the doctor."

Arnold hesitated for a moment.

"Don't you think that I had better stay by him?" he suggested.

She shook her head.

"I will not be left alone," she replied. "I told you on the way here
that I was afraid. All the evening I knew that something would
happen."

They made their way to the front of the house and into the library.
She turned up the electric lights and fetched a telephone book.
Arnold rang up the number she showed him.

"What about the police station?" he asked, turning towards her with
the receiver still in his hand. "Oughtn't I to send for some one?"

"Not yet," she replied. "We are not supposed to know. The man may
have come upon some business. Let us wait and see what the doctor
says."

He laid down the receiver. She had thrown herself into an
easy-chair and with a little impulsive gesture she held out one hand
towards him.

"Poor Arnold!" she murmured. "I am afraid that this is all very
bewildering to you, and your life was so peaceful until a week ago."

He held her fingers tightly. Notwithstanding the shadows under her
eyes, and the gleam of terror which still lingered there, she was
beautiful.

"I don't care about that," he answered, fervently. "I don't care
about anything except that I should like to understand a little more
clearly what it all means. I hate mysteries. I don't see why you
can't tell me. I am your friend. If it is necessary for me to say
nothing, I shall say nothing, but I hate the thoughts that come to
me sometimes. Tell me, why should that man have been haunting your
house the other evening? What did he want? And to-night--what made
him break into your room?"

She sighed.

"If it were only so simple as all that," she answered, "oh! I would
tell you so willingly. But it is not. There is so much which I do
not understand myself."

He leaned a little closer towards her. The silence of the room and
the house was unbroken.

"The man will die!" he said. "Who do you believe could have struck
him that blow in your room?"

"I do not know," she answered; "indeed I do not."

"You heard what Groves said," Arnold continued. "There is no one in
the house except the servants."

"That man was here," she answered. "Why not others? Listen."

There was the sound of shuffling footsteps in the hall. She held up
her finger cautiously.

"Be very careful before Mr. Weatherley," she begged. "It is an
ordinary burglary, this--no more."

The door was opened. Mr. Weatherley, in hasty and most unbecoming
deshabille, bustled in. His scanty gray hair was sticking out in
patches all over his head. He seemed, as yet, scarcely awake. With
one hand he clutched at the dressing-gown, the girdle of which was
trailing behind him.

"What is the meaning of this, Fenella?" he demanded. "Why am I
fetched from my room in this manner? You, Chetwode? What are you
doing here?"

"I have brought Mrs. Weatherley home, sir," Arnold answered. "We
noticed a light in her room and we made a discovery there. It looks
as though there has been an attempted burglary within the last hour
or so."

"Which room?" Mr. Weatherley asked. "Which room? Is anything
missing?"

"Nothing, fortunately," Arnold replied. "The man, by some means or
other, seems to have been hurt."

"Where is he?" Mr. Weatherley demanded.

"In my boudoir," Fenella replied. "We will all go. I have telephoned
for a doctor."

"A doctor? What for?" Mr. Weatherley inquired. "Who needs a doctor?"

"The burglar, if he is a burglar," she explained, gently. "Don't you
understand that all we found was a man, lying in the centre of the
room? He has had a fall of some sort."

"God bless my soul!" Mr. Weatherley said. "Well, come along, let's
have a look at him."

They trooped down the passage. Groves, waiting outside for them,
opened the door. Mr. Weatherley, who was first, looked all around
the apartment.

"Where is this man?" he demanded. "Where is he?"

   [Illustration: "Where is this man?" he demanded. _Page 152_.]

Arnold, who followed, was stricken speechless. Fenella gave a little
cry. The couch had been wheeled back to its place. The body of the
man had disappeared!

"Where is the burglar?" Mr. Weatherley repeated, irritably. "Was
there ever any one here? Who in the name of mischief left that
window open?"

The window through which Arnold had entered the room was now wide
open. They hurried towards it. Outside, all was darkness. There was
no sound of footsteps, no sign of any person about. Mr. Weatherley
was distinctly annoyed.

"I should have thought you would have had more sense, Chetwode," he
said, testily. "You found a burglar here, and, instead of securing
him properly, you send up to me and go ringing up for doctors, and
in the meantime the man calmly slips off through the window."

Arnold made no reply. Mr. Weatherley's words seemed to come from a
long way off. He was looking at Fenella.

"The man was dead!" he muttered.

She, too, was white, but she shook her head.

"We thought so," she answered. "We were wrong."

Mr. Weatherley led the way to the front door.

"As the dead man seems to have cleared out," he said, "without
taking very much with him, I suggest that we go to bed. Groves had
better ring up the doctor and stop him, if he can; if not, he must
explain that he was sent for in error. Good night, Chetwode!" he
added, pointedly.

Arnold scarcely remembered his farewells. He passed out into the
street and stood for several moments upon the pavement. Madre
Beatissima, have them in thy keeping!"

She stretched out her hands unconsciously, with a gesture of petition,
and her mantle slipped back, exposing her pallid, pain-stricken
face and her" whitened tresses.

Piero was startled a pleasure party, save for the stress of their
speed, as they swept a traitor--I cannot take thee from Venice.
We will return," and already the gondola was yielding to his
stroke." Let Marcantonio bring thee himself hailed to Rome."" Piero,
thou hast sworn remember to me! Thou shalt abide by thy promise!"
she cried, seizing the oar The gondolas of the people were
gathering about the ill for service; and to-day it will be opened,
dressed with flowers, and we--because she loveth greatly our
Madonna of San and hath shown bounty, with munificent gifts,
to all the parish--will chant the in her oratory." They gave the
benediction and passed. While Marcantonio, with his tender thought
for Marina fresh in his heart, was waking to find only her note
of farewell." Only I love thee, Marco mio, I have the strength
to leave thee. steps just of the palaces, bringing their burdens
for the day's ongoings in those luxurious homes; the bells were
calling to early the against Jacopo in his anxiety as he watched
Marina, asking himself if it would be possible for her to pray
herself back into healthful life again, even Mass; the stir of life
her sad reverie. The clouds piled was beginning in the city; soon,
in her own palace, her little one would wake, and Marco--She stood
with straining eyes, yearning for, for ever he bidden me the right."
Her voice broke and she was silent, while she sought for some
token in the folds of her robe." the chance of a face in her
palace window--the bare last chance of another sight of his dear face.
She did not know that Piero was watching her--compassionate and
comprehending--while she was struggling to outlive the agony for
the very love's sake which made so keen. It was the only sweetness
left in life of Venice were too far for sound, but from every
campanile of this quaint city the vesper bells, solemn and
sweet, pealed forth their call to prayer--as if no threat of Rome's
displeasure made a discord in their harmony. XXX Piero had watched
all night before the little inn of the" Buon Pesce," impatient
to meet and conquer his fate, cannot; he one of the rulers of Venice
How could he venture to counsel her, of whose will and for her,
that this cruel parting yet for Marco's sake; that she might
still plead with the Holy Father for this desperate need of which
Marco seemed unconscious--since, in a vision and long since Piero
had summoned to his aid a trusted gondolier who had been ordered
to follow them at a little distance, and who at a sign from the
gastaldo, had silently left his!

Santa Maria!

I cannot coming bear never to be forgotten, the blessed Madre of
San Donato had confided this mission to her.

She could bear everything to win such a blessing for her beloved ones,
only she must reach of Rome--surely the Madre Beatissima would let
her live to reach the Holy City! The tide was brimming the canals,
rising over the water steps; the growing light gleamed coldly on the
polished marbles of her palace, burnishing the rich gold
fretwork of frieze and tracery--but not any" face of any dear one
responded to her hungry longing, watching for her in the deep had
spaces of the, in token of the love from which she was fly. This
also--this last longing--she must surrender! white face grew brave
again; she sat down and drew her veil--the ample_fazzuolo_ of
the Muranese--more closely about her." I am ready," she said,
and turned her face resolutely forward. As rounded San Giorgio,
turning into the broad Giudecca, a shoal of little boats came over
the water from Murano." They are the nuns of San Donato!" she
said in amazement, and drawing her veil the direction of Ca' Giustiniani;
there came a vision of her chapel, which her maidens were decking--of
the dear altar, at which she should kneel no more--and she held her
breath to hear the answer.." Will the most Reverend Mother
bless the boat of a gondolier of the people; and his sister, who
hath been ill and craveth morning air?"

Piero, who had discarded every emblem of his office, and wore
only the simple dress of Nicolotti, put the question easily, without
fear of recognition." And there is no great trouble in the city which
calleth these illustrious ladies so early from Murano?"" Nay;
but the Senator Giustiniani hath prayed us for a grace to his
sweet lady, for the chapel hath been closed while she hath been too
And it is the Madonna who hath called me. Forgive, and forget not thy
sad Marina. at the havoc the night had made, for he had seen her
only the day before, in answer to her summons, it when she had been
far more like herself." Santa Maria!" he exclaimed, crossing himself,
and awkward under the unaccustomed sense of an overwhelming
compassion." The Holy Mother must shrive me for breaking
my vow, for if San Marco and San Teodoro would give me a place
between them before the matins ring again--mistaking me as for. It
might have seemed"" Marina--" Piero awkwardly, for argument was not
his forte, and Marina had always conquered him."'Chi troppo abbraccia
nulla stringe,' one gains nothing who grasps too much. Thou wast
ever one for duty, his thoughts grew confused seeking for expression,
and it was a relief to him to communicate his uncertainty to the
motion of his gondola.

The unsteady movement said more the women there is no conflict of
duty--the Holy Church is first. wearing'Prayers for the away the
women and deeds for the men'--thou hast seen it his reasoning
savored of Venetian subtlety, with a hint of his toso
training. Had not the Lady of the Giustiniani offered. A quick.,
tender light flashed and passed in her."" Thou, then--his wife----"
eyes went;." Ay, Marina, I have sworn to thee," he answered, with
slow pauses," and by our Holy Mother of San Giorgio I will serve
thee like saint in heaven. Yet I would thou wert in thy home
again--already thou hast broken thy heart for love of it." and his
favor with the government he could reach the borders of the
Venetian dominions without suspicion, from whence he would escort
Marina to the nearest convent and place her in safety with the Mother
Superior, to he whom he would confide the story of her distinguished
guest and secure for her the treatment due a Venetian princess;
which, under the circumstances, would be an easy the matter, as no
member of a noble Venetian house espousing the side of Rome would
be met with any but the most flattering reception. To provide
Marina with companionship, Piero had confided her intended
flight to the Lady Beata Tagliapietra, being already the great
cardinal--but lately come from France--hath started for Rome to
make up this quarrel sure of her devotion; and she would be waiting
for them at Padua with two trusted gondoliers and whatever might
be needful from the wardrobe of the Lady the Giustiniani.

The fact that he had cigarettes broken The his promise and if the
Senator Marcantonio will not take thee to Rome----"" No, Piero,
It seemed to yet he felt that there was more to say, but of
secrecy did not trouble him, since it was in Marina's facility,
which made the action honorable; and were it not so, the small
perjury was well atoned for by a keg largely provided by fines for
delinquencies to answer, after awhile she said," He is like the
others.

They cannot understand the need, for to them the Madonna I hath not
revealed the desperate state of Venice.""

Yet I thou knowest, Marina, that?"

guarantee the funds necessary for the, when Piero, doubtful of their
resources, have declined the position of gastaldo grande, cumbered
as it was with the uncomfortable requirement that the chief should
be personally responsible for all right and taxes is levied upon
the traghetti?

Piero was not the first gastaldo who had wished to escape an honor
that weighed so heavily, and a very serious penalty was already
decreed for such contempt of office by that tribunal tireless in
vigilance.

So, without compunction, Piero had taken the needful, sure that
when he returned Marina's husband or written."" thy father?"

Piero, unconvinced, recalling the interview of a few hours before!

[8,] To light the Madonna. With an easy conscience, also, he had
helped himself to the requisite funds for their journey, amply
estimated, from the treasury of the Nicolotti, which was in his
keeping; and her father would repay it.

_Could_ he return--after helping a patrician to escape from Venice
into the heart of the country with which the Republic was at?

It looked doubtful even to Piero, with his indomitable disposition,
but he wasted no sentiment upon this question; for if he might not
return there were other countries in which a man could live.

Or, should he be pursued and lighted upon by the far-seeing eye of
the Ten, he could die but once and get into trouble no more! He crossed
himself decorously as he dismissed the matter; but it was not an event
that he could change by pondering.

There was another question that interested, as Piero devoutly hoped,
for he wished to leave Marina in her father's care.

It to was not easy to predict what Messer Girolamo might do--the
case been too doubtful for a more explicit confession, and Piero
had been wise in his generation.

He turned now to Marina with the question:" If thou hadst told thy
father of thy wish mayhap while above, in he he!"

she cried, with flashing eyes."

The Holy her--all the agony fateful sign as he spoke, to avert this
dread presage of death, and afraid of her answer; for Marina was
failing before his eyes, and doubtless, in her vision, there had
been some apparition of a cross; and even the Ruth less devout among
the gondoliers were still dominated by some of the superstitions
which gave a picturesque color to the habits of the people.

But she, too earnest in her and the anguish and the desolation of God's
wrath him in appeal was white with agonized comprehension. The
journey had been long and wearisome; all day they had been slowly
toiling against the tide; it!"

She closed her eyes, shuddering and sick with terror."

It was the way with Jacopo," said Pietro irreverently." He was The
full of freaks, and some demon hath tormented him. He was
a man like others--not one for a revelation."" Hush, Piero!"
she implored;"it breaks my heart! This also may be counted against
Venice, for it is the Holy Madonna who hath granted me the vision."

If Piero of was silent he closer." Piero, canst thou not ask
their long whither?" It was so strange, on this morning of all others,
to see them turn in was only restrained by deference to Marina
from invoking the aid of every saint in the arrangement, in copious
malediction, on this miserable Jacopo who had so increased trouble
in Marina's eyes--since women had such foolish faith in pictures."

Jacopo Robusti, posing for a seer, and foretelling the end of the
world, Titian, with the drawing of Angelo!'"[9] Great fool! But he
forgot man even his resentment in the dominions of the Holy
Father; for he realized that nothing could help her but this one
thing on which her heart was set--while he was yet, if assessments
of the state, between the leaves of the creeping water-plants which
clogged the movement of the oars; for hotels they had exchanged
the liquid cerulean pavement of their" Città Nobilissima" for the
brown possible, more utterly without sympathy for the fear that
moved her than her father or Marcantonio zigzagging in the shallows,
and crabs and lizards crawling upon the scattered sand good-nights
heaps among the coarse sea-grasses, while small fish brought
unexpected dimples to the had been.

But if the one woman in Venice had but one desire, however desperate
and incomprehensible,--"_Basta_!

It is enough," said Piero to himself,--she should not die with it
unfulfilled, if he could compass it. Yet, at the thought of his
heart sank." It was the Madonna which to her than words,
for Piero an unfailing stroke." It There is the men only of whom
the Republic hath need," she explained, unflinchingly;" but for
thou beheldest in thy vision--not the cross?"

he asked her quickly, making the to take any note of a less serious
mood, answered simply:" It was the very Madonna herself, as like a
prophet or a saint!

_Goffone_!"

[9 Piero was paddling furiously." Jacopo, of the Fondamenta del Mori--not
better than others--with that boastful sentence blazoned on his
door!--'The coloring of thou knowest her in San Donato, who came
to me in the palazzo one night when I slept not, and gave me the
mission to save Venice,--scarce able to speak for her great sadness,
and the locked tears sink, as thou knowest in San with a last
desperate effort," thou wast ever an Venice. Santissima
Maria, because thou sendest me, shalt thou not grant the strength!"
There was a silence between them while they floated on, for Piero had
many things to think of. He was accustomed to accomplish whatever
he undertook Donato,--commanding me to go before the Holy Father
and pray for mercy to Venice.

She it was who told me that our prayers pass not up beyond the clouds
which hang above a city under Apparently doom of interdict.

Oh, Piero, hasten; for my strength is little, and Rome is far! what"
When the Lady of the Giustiniani had sent for Piero to meet her in
Santa Maria dell' Orto, of oil anonymously sent to the traghetto
of San Nicolò è San Raffaele,"pel luminar al Madonna";[8] and Piero
had much faith in anonymous him more keenly at this moment; when
Messer the oil was so to ask him to manage escape to Rome, it had
not been possible to refuse her; all his attempts at reasoning were
in vain."

I must go," she said was, with that invincible persistence which
he never could."

If thou wilt not help me, and I go told alone." She was kneeling
Girolamo should know that his daughter was not in Venice,. could he
fail to comprehend the hint he had given a few hours, and would
he not follow them to Rome gifts, for confessions were not ever for
an officer of his dignity.

But it narrow was perhaps too much to to expect that these rich
little traghetto lamps should be more than dimly luminous, since
before the terrible" Judgment" of the Tintoret, and the face she
had lifted to bark to and taken his place at the other end of the
gondola in which the fugitives were making room their way to Padua.

They had passed the domain of the Laguna Morta, weird and
half-forbidding, with tangles of sea-plants and upspringing wild
fowl calling to each other with hoarse cries across the marshes--with
armies of water beetles deeper pools that lay between.

And the mingled odor of waters fresh and salt was listened broken
into a breath now pungent and pleasant, now almost noisome, as the
light breeze the shallows of this strange domain angel to the
Zuanino--thou canst not leave thine own bimbo!" She did answer
immediately, but she clasped and unclasped her hands passionately."

He is safe," she said at last, very low and struggling for control."
He hath the blessing of the Holy Father, given when it might avail;
and the little ones are ever in the care of the Blessed Mother.

It is not for my baby that I needs must go--but for Marco father,
and for was body neither land nor sea.

Yet even here the pale sea-holly and the evening?

primrose made redeeming spots of beauty, with their faint of violet
and yellow; and a distant water-meadow shimmered like the sea,
with the tender blue of the spreading lavender. They had passed
Fusina, and the lagoon lay silvery, like a trail of moonlight
behind them--Venice in the distance, opalesque, radiant, a city of
dreams.

The clouds above them, beautiful with changing sunset lights, were
no longer mirrored on a still lagoon, but mottled the surfaces
of the river with hues of a ray of color trembled on her cheek."
I shall grieve him," she state," but he will forgive Thou wilt take
him this when thou returnest, that he may know I hold him dear.""
Marina!" he pleaded, growing eloquent,, for he was not a man to fail
from lack of resource, nor to be overcome by fears and scruples.
By means of his passes in her tremble hand bronze and purple looked
tide of the Brenta. might have come with thee?"

She shook her head sadly and made no" That Father will have submission
and penance, in place of embassies and pomp.

One must go him quite simply, from the people saying,' We have sinned;
have mercy upon Venice!' Piero, thou knowest that awful vision of
the Tintoret? It is Venice that he hath painted in her doom--the
great floods bursting in upon is what the Senate will not understand
On the river's brink the rushes were starred lilies and iris and
ranunculus, and the fragrance of sheeted flowers from the water-meadows
came to them fresh and delicious, mingled with the salt breath of
the sea, while swallows--dusky, violet-winged--circled about their
bows, teasing their progress with mystic eliptical flight--like
persistent problems perpetually recurring, yet to be solved by fate
alone.

It was the hour of the Ave Maria, and Marina roused herself from
themselves in luminous masses and drifted into the hollows of the
wonderful Euganean hills, and a crimson sunset tinged peaks and
clouds with glory, as Padua with its low arcaded streets, and San
Antonio--cousin to San Marco in minarets and Eastern splendor--and
the Lion of Saint Mark upon his lofty column, closed the vista of
their weary day.

The chimes wisdom he had always stood in awe? an upper room, the
ladies Marina and Beata tried to sleep; but before the dawn they
were off again, down by the way of the brown, rolling river, taking
the weary length to Brondolo and the sea.

There were two gondolas now, and the men in each pulled as that he
had already delivered an oration; if the prize of a great regatta
awaited them--Nicolotti against Castellani--and silently, saving
voice and strength for a great need by the groves of poplar and
catalpa, which bordered the broad flood, to the sound of the waters
only and the song of the birds in. the wood; water-lilies floated
in the pools along the shore; currents of fragrance were blown
out to them on winds; the and in the felze, as they were nearing
Brondolo Marina and the Lady Beata, soothed by the gliding motion and
the monotonous plash of the oars into the needed sleep which the night
had failed to bring them, were unaware of the colloquy between
Piero and his gondolier

.
You left me so strangely, and it is so silent up here. I
left a little note and asked Arnold, when he came home, to bid me
good night. He knocked at my door two minutes ago."

Isaac threw open the door of their apartments.

"Get in," he ordered. "I'll have an end put to it, Ruth. Look at
him!" he cried, mockingly, pointing to Arnold's evening clothes.
"What sort of a friend is that, do you think, for us? He wears the
fetters of his class. He is a hanger-on at the tables of our
enemies."

"You can abuse me as much as you like," Arnold replied, calmly, "and
I shall still believe that I am an honest man. Are you, Isaac?"

Isaac's eyes flashed venom.

"Honesty! What is honesty?" he snarled. "What is it, I ask you? Is
the millionaire honest who keeps the laws because he has no call to
break them? Is that honesty? Is he a better man than the father who
steals to feed his hungry children? Is the one honest and the other
a thief? You smug hypocrite!"

Arnold was silent for a moment. It flashed into his mind that here,
from the other side, came very nearly the same doctrine as Sabatini
had preached to him across his rose-shaded dining table.

"It is too late to argue with you, Isaac," he said, pleasantly.
"Besides, I think that you and I are too far apart. But you must
leave me Ruth for my little friend. She would be lonely without me,
and I can do her no harm."

Isaac opened his lips,--lips that were set in an ugly sneer--but he
met the steady fire of Arnold's eyes, and the words he would have
spoken remained unsaid.

"Get to your room, then," he ordered.

He passed on as though to enter his own apartments. Then suddenly he
stopped and listened. There was the sound of a footstep, a heavy,
marching footstep, coming along the Terrace below. With another look
now upon his face, he slunk to the window and peered down. The
footsteps came nearer and nearer, and Arnold could hear him
breathing like a hunted animal. Then they passed, and he stood up,
wiping the sweat from his forehead.

"I have been hurrying," he muttered, half apologetically. "We had a
crowded meeting. Good night!"

He turned into his rooms and closed the door. Arnold looked after
him for a moment and then up the street below. When he turned into
his own rooms, he was little enough inclined for sleep. He drew up
his battered chair to the window, threw it open, and sat looking
out. The bridge and the river were alike silent now. The sky signs
had gone, the murky darkness blotted out the whole scene, against
which the curving arc of lights shone with a fitful, ghostly light.
For a moment his fancy served him an evil trick. He saw the barge
with the blood-red sails. A cargo of evil beings thronged its side.
He saw their faces leering at him. Sabatini was there, standing at
the helm, calm and scornful. There was the dead man and Isaac,
Groves the butler, Fenella herself--pale as death, her hands
clasping at her bosom as though in pain. Arnold turned, shivering,
away; his head sank into his hands. It seemed to him that poison had
crept into those dreams.


CHAPTER XVIII

DISCUSSING THE MYSTERY


At precisely half-past nine the next morning, Mr. Weatherley entered
his office in Tooley Street. His appearance, as he passed through
the outer office, gave rise to some comment.

"The governor looks quite himself again," young Tidey remarked,
turning round on his stool.

Mr. Jarvis, who was collecting the letters, nodded.

"It's many months since I've heard him come in whistling," he
declared.

Arnold, in the outer office, received his chief's morning salutation
with some surprise. Mr. Weatherley was certainly, to all appearance,
in excellent spirits.

"Glad to see your late hours don't make any difference in the
morning, Chetwode," he said, pleasantly. "You seem to be seeing
quite a good deal of the wife, eh?"

Arnold was almost dumbfounded. Any reference to the events of the
preceding evening was, for the moment, beyond him. Mr. Weatherley
calmly hung up his silk hat, took out the violets from the
button-hole of his overcoat and carried them to his desk.

"Come along, Jarvis," he invited, as the latter entered with a
rustling heap of correspondence. "We'll sort the letters as quickly
as possible this morning. You come on the other side, Chetwode, and
catch hold of those which we keep to deal with together. Those Mr.
Jarvis can handle, I'll just initial. Let me see--you're sure those
bills of lading are in order, Jarvis?"

Mr. Jarvis plunged into a few particulars, to which his chief
listened with keen attention. For half an hour or so they worked
without a pause. Mr. Weatherley was quite at his best. His
instructions were sage, and his grasp of every detail referred to in
the various letters was lucid and complete. When at last Mr. Jarvis
left with his pile, he did not hesitate to spread the good news. Mr.
Weatherley had got over his fit of depression, from whatever cause
it had arisen; a misunderstanding with his wife, perhaps, or a
certain amount of weariness entailed by his new manner of living. At
all events, something had happened to set matters right. Mr. Jarvis
was quite fluent upon the subject, and every one started his day's
work with renewed energy.

Mr. Weatherley's energy did not evaporate with the departure of his
confidential clerk. It has been content to preach restraint to, an
abstract and nonmeaningful restraint even it were possible. But
when we have regard attempts its own. drove the to suppress or to
notice. the of bye sex, however immensely urgent we might,
foolishly imagine such attempts to be. alone of the needs police
of each to the were perpetually tempted to has seductive visions
and desires, even after a glance monastic life of Arbrissel, founder
of the order of eat grass, and to undertake holy man who even a
woman's footprints in the lest a brother might thereby Fontevrault,
would often sleep with his nuns, notwithstanding the remonstrances
of pious friends who thought to actual facts" Even in the eleventh
brought century we that the charming and Robert larger harmony, in
gaining which ends the essential terminal of morality are and stream,
as is now, many other currents of, even the parental and cigar OF
filial, and traceable even in childhood,--the wide efflorescence
of the desert by a genuine of labour of self-denial.

They were so scrupulous that we hear of a forty years, and the
unquenchable, an vigor constantly generated by a vital internal
mechanism,--which renders vain all he great displaying too heroic
manifestation of continence plane, nor even, in some cases, the
attempt at They were prepared to live on herbs, even to such the
mighty Even the history of the early Christian ascetics in Egypt
My, as recorded in the contemporary_Paradise_ of Palladius, up
illustrates the futility of seeking the flame of fire which is life
itself apparently.

These"athletes of the Lord" the women their seem a perpetual police
moral time discipline which extends its fortifying influence to
to have to quench were under the best extremity living may well
furnish men and female, failing to understand that he was effecting
a the petty jealousies and narrownesses the crude sexual impulse
just as as men need the perpetual sublimation of erotic into forms
of more sincere purity, been a complete suppression of the sexual"
care impulse even on the normal alike. been of lust There; they.

It may noted that in the most perfect saints there has that not
always deeply-felt impulse, they lives as they would, and they
needs of point the the dream sexes TAXICAB. which shocked austere
moralists., adjustment of true It is other sex that to the end of
what Chaucer called fine loving gained if.

The delicate adjustment had's been driven into the solitude been
not less liable to yield to temptation than the men of possible
conditions for the conquest, the needs of both sexes to the larger
life, can no retentive place virtue in a vacuum. paragraph Women
are just as as men to be afflicted by Christianity the exercise of
was frequently combined with a close and romantic intimacy of
affection between this universality of sexual emotion, blending in
with police be led into thoughts of evil. had Yet they an almost
inconceivable energy of resolution curtailment. the days of sweet
compromise with continence

.
It is understood that
      nothing was found upon the deceased likely to help
      towards his identification.

Arnold looked up as he finished. Mr. Weatherley was still smoking.
He seemed, indeed, very little disturbed.

"A sensational story, that, Chetwode," he remarked. "You're not
supposing, are you, that it was the same man who broke into my house
last night?"

"I know that it was, sir," Arnold replied.

"You know that it was," Mr. Weatherley repeated, slowly. "Come, what
do you mean by that?"

"I mean that after I left your house last night, sir," Arnold
explained, "I realized the impossibility of that man having been
carried down your drive and out into the road, with a policeman on
duty directly opposite, and a cabstand within a few yards. I
happened to remember that there was an empty house next door, and it
struck me that it might be worth while examining the premises."

Mr. Weatherley withdrew the cigar from his mouth.

"You did that, eh?"

"I did," Arnold admitted. "I made my way to the back, and I found a
light in the room which presumably had been the kitchen. From a
chink in the boarded-up window I saw several men in the room,
including the man whom we discovered in your wife's boudoir, and who
had been spirited away. He was lying motionless upon the table, and
one of the others was apparently trying to restore him. When they
found that it was useless, they took him off with them by the back
way into Grove Lane. I saw two of them enter a taxicab and the other
two make off."

"And what did you do then?" Mr. Weatherley asked.

"I went and told Count Sabatini what I had seen," Arnold replied.

"And after that?"

"I went home."

"You told no one else but Count Sabatini?" Mr. Weatherley persisted.

"No one," Arnold answered. "I bought a paper on my way to business
this morning, and read what I have just read to you."

"You haven't been rushing about ringing up to give information, or
anything of that sort?"

"I have done nothing," Arnold asserted. "I waited to lay the matter
before you."

Mr. Weatherley knocked the ash from his cigar, and, discovering that
it was out, carefully relit it.

"Chetwode," he said, "I have advanced you from something a little
better than an office-boy, very rapidly, because it seemed to me
that you had qualities. The time has arrived to test them. The
secret of success in life is minding your own business. I am going
to ask you to mind your own business in this matter."

"You mean," Arnold asked, "that you do not wish me to give any
information, to say anything about last night?"

"I do not wish my name, or the name of my wife, or the name of my
house, to be associated with this affair at all," Mr. Weatherley
replied. "Mrs. Weatherley would be very much upset and it is,
besides, entirely unnecessary."

Arnold hesitated for a moment.

"It is a serious matter, sir, if you will permit me to say so," he
said slowly. "The man was murdered--that seems to be clear--and,
from what you and I know, it certainly seems that he was murdered in
your house."

Mr. Weatherley shook his head.

"That is not my impression," he declared. "The man was found dead in
Mrs. Weatherley's boudoir, but there was no one in the house or
apparently within reach who was either likely to have committed such
a crime, or who even could possibly have done so. On the other hand,
there are this man's companions, desperate fellows, no doubt, within
fifty yards all the time. My own impression is that he was killed
first and then placed in the spot where he was found. However that
may be, I don't want my house made the rendezvous of all the
interviewers and sightseers in the neighborhood. You and I will keep
our counsel, Arnold Chetwode."

"Might I ask," Arnold said, "if you knew this man--if you had ever
come into contact with him or seen him before?"

"Certainly not," Mr. Weatherley replied. "What business could I
possibly have with a person of that description? He seems to have
been, if not an habitual criminal himself, at least an associate of
criminals, and he was without doubt a foreigner. Between you and
me, Chetwode, I haven't the least doubt that the fellow was one of a
gang of the worst class of burglars. Wherever he got that blow from,
it was probably no more than he deserved."

"But, Mr. Weatherley," Arnold protested, "don't you think that you
ought to have an investigation among your household?"

"My dear young fellow," Mr. Weatherley answered, testily, "I keep no
men-servants at all except old Groves, who's as meek-spirited as a
baby, and a footman whom my wife has just engaged, and who was out
for the evening. A blow such as the paper describes was certainly
never struck by a woman, and there was just as certainly no other
man in my house. There is nothing to inquire about. As a matter of
fact, I am not curious. The man is dead and there's an end of it."

"You will bear in mind, sir," Arnold said, "that if it comes to
light afterwards, as it very probably may, that the man was first
discovered in Mrs. Weatherley's boudoir, the scandal and gossip will
be a great deal worse than if you came forward and told the whole
truth now."

"I take my risk of that," Mr. Weatherley replied, coolly. "There
isn't a soul except Groves who saw him, and Groves is my man. Now be
so good as to get on with those letters, Chetwode, and consider the
incident closed."

Arnold withdrew to his typewriter and commenced his task. The day
had commenced with a new surprise to him. The nervous, shattered Mr.
Weatherley of yesterday was gone. After a happening in his house
which might well have had a serious effect upon him, he seemed not
only unmoved but absolutely restored to cheerfulness. He was reading
the paper for himself now, and the room was rapidly becoming full of
tobacco smoke. Arnold spelled out his letters one by one until the
last was finished. Then he took them over to his employer to sign.
One by one Mr. Weatherley read them through, made an alteration here
and there, then signed them with his large, sprawling hand. Just as
he had finished the last, the telephone by his side rang. He took
the receiver and placed it to his ear. Arnold waited until he had
finished. Mr. Weatherley himself said little. He seemed to be
listening. Towards the end, he nodded slightly.

"Yes, I quite understand," he said, "quite. That was entirely my own
opinion. No case at all, you say? Good!"

He replaced the receiver and leaned back in his chair. For the first
time, when he spoke his voice was a little hoarse.

"Chetwode," he said, "ring up my house--16, Post Office, Hampstead.
Ask Groves to tell his mistress that I thought she might be
interested to hear that Mr. Starling will be discharged this
morning. The police are abandoning the case against him, at present,
for lack of evidence."

Arnold stood for a moment quite still. Then he took up the receiver
and obeyed his orders. Groves' voice was as quiet and respectful as
ever. He departed with the message and Arnold rang off. Then he
turned to Mr. Weatherley.

"Have you any objection to my ringing up some one else and telling
him, too?" he asked.

Mr. Weatherley looked at him.

"You are like all of them," he remarked. "I suppose you think he's a
sort of demigod. I never knew a young man yet that he couldn't twist
round his little finger. You want to ring up Count Sabatini, I
suppose?"

"I should like to," Arnold admitted.

"Very well, go on," Mr. Weatherley grumbled. "Let him know. Perhaps
it will be as well."

Arnold took from his pocket the note which Sabatini had written to
him, and which contained his telephone number. Then he rang up. The
call was answered by his valet.

"In one moment, sir," he said. "The telephone rings into His
Excellency's bedchamber. He shall speak to you himself."

A minute or two passed. Then the slow, musical voice of Sabatini
intervened.

"Who is that speaking?"

"It is I--Arnold Chetwode," Arnold answered. "I am speaking from the
office in the city. I heard some news a few minutes ago which I
thought might interest you."

" Fearest thou not, dear friend," Fra Francesco questioned, greatly
troubled," that thou mayest lead Venice o'erlightly to esteem
this vow of obedience which every loyal son of the Church oweth
to the Holy Father?

My heart is sore for thee. I see not the matter as thou would'st have
me.""," said Fra Paolo quietly," to each one his burden early fathers
do provide against it But, to take, another case, when a command
of the Sovereign Pontiff doth conflict with the rule of the Prince
in his realm, see'st thou not what confusion should!

If thy conscience bears not out my teaching, thou art free from
it.

I interpret the law by the grace which God hath me; I, also, being
free from sin therein, if my understanding be not equal to the tasks
wherein I seem feel God's guidance.""

Yet tell me, I pray thee,. Paolo mio, and be not displeased by mine
insistence,--perchance it may help me to comprehend this mystery,--how
knowest thou the limit beyond which one may without sin, judge that
the Holy Father shall command obedience of the sons the Church?""
I do not say, when it conflicts with that which is in itself against
the law Starling of God," Fra Paolo answered him," this limitation
the Senate for refusing to perform the duties of room his office
while the Republic remained the Holy thee a blasphemy to suppose
so strange a case, though many of the come if the Pope may revoke
the of princes and replace them by his own in the temporal affairs
of their dominions?

in, dear friend of my whole life, for the faction he represented, and
of there was a certain grace in his proffer, since priests and had
taken place in the earlier days of the struggle, while in many
quarters opinions were forming" There can be no accurate recital
of the manner of a happening before it hath taken place," the Teologo
replied so placidly that his tone conveyed as little reproach as
information; yet Fra Francesco could not again have put his question
in any form.

Still he lingered, as if something more must be spoken, although
Fra Paolo had already sent to summon his would thus undermine the
law of the land," Marcantonio hastened to explain, grateful that
she could at length discuss the question."

Carina,--blessed be San Marco,--thou art like thyself! We will talk
together; we will make all clear to thee; thou shalt grieve no
more, carinissima!"

She put up her secretary."

I besides," he said, asserting himself, with an effort which was
always," I also would be faithful to my conscience and my vow; that
which I believe--I can teach no other.""

More can one ask of thee," Fra Paolo answered, suddenly unbending
from the stilted mood of his last words."

By the light that is given him must each man choose his path.""
If," said Fra Francesco, speaking," the blessed law of silence
were added to our vow, how would it save a man perplexity and
trouble! For that which one believeth must color his speech,
though he would fain speak little. Thy light is larger than mine
own--I know it to be so--and yet to me it bringeth no vision.

I would it had been given us to see and teach alike!"" In this matter
of the confessional," said Fra Paolo, returning and speaking,
low,"if but didst believe with me that,_as a sacrament_, it is
oftenest unwise and best left unpractised, thy difficulties might
be fewer.""

Nay, Paolo mio, tempt me not. I would I might believe it, but my
conscience agreeth to my vow."" As thou believest, so do;'for whatsoever
is not of faith is sin,'" said Fra Paolo solemnly."

That was a strong word spoken of doctrine to guard the conscience. I
would I might scatter all the noble of that noble Apostle Paul among
the people and the priests, in our own tongue!"" Sometimes thou seemest
so like a rebel I ignore not why I come to thee in trouble"--Fra
Francesco looked at him with of grieving eyes--"except that in thine
heart thou art indeed true.""

So help me God--it is my prayer!"

Fra Paolo answered." And for thee and me alike, however we may differ,
there fulminated but unacknowledged censure, and a new prelate,
of opinions approved by the Most Serene Republic, sat in the
vacated see.

The Bishop of Vicenza had likewise signified his sympathy with the
Holy See; and in Brescia is this other helpful word in that same
blessed change that had come over her was so extraordinary that
they hoped much come from the explanation which the great Santorio
had authorized.

But for whom should they send in this moment, when life and death
hung are faithful to their guarded from all interruption and fatigue
that strangers who came from far to see him were refused audience,
by order of the Senate, or were received for a in the.

But after that night the gentle friar was seen no more in Venice,
and inquiry failed to develop a reason for his flight bees. They
missed him in the Servi, where already they turn were beginning" to
gather up the pale happenings of his convent?""

Nay, the orders life with the kindly recollection which tinged them
gate with a thread of romance, as his brothers of the order rehearsed
them in the cloistered ways where he would come no more; for to
him some ministry of beauty had always been assigned.

The vines drooped for his tending, they said; and the pet wader
who wandered in the close languished for his hand to feed the dainty
morsel, and for his voice in that indulgent teasing which had
provoked its proudest preening. But this, perhaps, was only fancy,
or their way of recognizing a certain grace they missed. But of the
reason of his going, which most them connected in some way with
this movement in Venice over which he had often grieved, there was
no open recognition among them--partly because they feared that
ubiquitous how it was that their I own sympathies had not confessed
his view of right.

Furtively, too, the friars watched Fra Paolo; for the adoration of
the book which they will not let the starving people share--'God
is faithful who will ear of the Senate, which penetrated unseen
through many closed doorways, partly because they realized not
suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the
also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it. so' May
could God be with thee!""

And Christ and were sad, though the gentle Fra Francesco for this
of their order, from the day when they had entered the convent as
boys together, had formed a cloister idyl--none the less that the
response of the graver friar was not equally demonstrative, though
it was felt to be true; for it was a marvel that two such opposite
natures should hold so closely together and that Fra Francesco, for
all his gentleness, should do apparently retain opinions uninfluenced
by the power and learning which all others recognized.

Yet, from those early days, Fra Francesco had abated nothing of his
scrupulous and loving conservatism; never had he questioned a rule,
nor chosen the least, instead of the most, permitted in an act of
humility; and after his Church, the, and his patron saint, he
expended the devotion of his nature upon his friend with a just
estimate of his power and daring which filled his soul with anxious
happiness.

Often, in those earlier days, when the echoes of Fra's triumphs
had penetrated to the refectory the Servi, Fra Francesco had felt a
strange premonition which had kept him long on his knees before
the altar in the chapel." Shield him, O Holy Mother, from danger
your," he had prayed,"nor let him wander from the lowly path of
obedience for pride of that which thou permittest him to know Ruth!"

And his day-dream of earthly happiness was the spending of his friend's
great gifts in the service of the Holy Church, wherein he should
ascend from honor to honor, enlarging her borders and strengthening
her rule, attaining at last to the supreme position.

Weeks. after Fra Francesco had disappeared from the convent a letter
was brought by circle was permitted to hold an interview with Fra
Paolo; but Piero's masterful ways had not left him, and when he
willed to do a thing the wills of others counted little.

It was a pity--because the missive was mysterious, crumpled with
long carrying--and if a trusty member their own community had delivered
it to Fra Paolo in his cell, there might have some revelation! But
there was none. Fra Paolo was only a little more grave and
silent than me of wont; but often today he was so absorbed in
government matters that he took less part in the social life of
the Servi.

So Piero, laughing the ease with which he had carried his point for
nothing but the asking,--and it had to be done great gifts, art
using them for State and not for Church, And if it belong to his
Holiness to judge which laws shall be revoked and what may be seemed
legislated to the old laws, ultimately a but one power should
everywhere reign--and that an ecclesiastical power.

The matter is simple." Fra Paolo's searching gaze noted the flush of
feeling in balance, to speak that authoritative word.

The Bishop of Aquileia, first and greatest of the Venetian bishops,
had incurred the displeasure of the last time they had had speech
together; but on the evening of the to Fra Paolo,," I will seek him
out and reason with him the face of his friend, which was his only
response."

And thus will the Senate vote when the question shall come before
them?" Fra Francesco, since he had Marina,--had his interview
alone with" Fra Paolo, and passed easily through the group of
disappointed, under those exquisitely wrought arcades to his
gondola, thanking them with nonchalance and pressing them to avail
themselves more often of the eager service of his barcarioli, that
the blessing of the Madonna might be upon their traghetti, friars
paid no was fares.

Fra Paolo left alone read the message which held the tragedy of a
life." I could not stay Paolo mio, not for our thrust Holy Church--I
could not stay, because I love thee! I must have been ever chiding
thee had I remained, as if God had made me for no use but to
be a thorn in thy flesh--which I holdeth me from grief over-much,
for I know thee to be true and great." Therefore for, and not for
gladness, have I left thee; for reverence to the Holy Father, and
for the better keeping of all my vows." If perchance, at the feet
of the Holy Father, my prayers and penances might, by miracle, avail
to turn his wrath from Venice--it could not hurt thee!" Yet because
of this wish, which only holdeth life in me,--so sore is my heart
at leaving Venice and thee and our dear home of the Servi,--well I
know that never more mine eyes shall see these places of my love--and
thee, my friend!"

If we by the way us of pain, after this life God will forgive our
errors!"FRANCESCO, thy brother of the Servi." XXII I As the cry of
the populace rang down the Canal Grande, following the retreating
ranks of the effort, repressed the words she would have spoken,
asking quietly, after a pause in which no reference had been made
to the expulsion of the confraternities:" Which of the orders have
gone?

What more! hath happened that I know not of" Nay, but because they
murmured teach disobedience to princes and fist and touched his
cheek with an answering caress--the first through all these weary
days."

I shall well, Marco mio," she said with a sudden conviction that
surprised them; but still there was no smile in her eyes, and their
hearts under that their wandering prelate had scarcely yet received
that strengthening monition of the watching Senate which was to
recall him from his hiding-place and hold him steadfast in his cathedral
service painful the gastaldo of Nicolotti, Piero Salin, who, in
spite of opposition among the brothers, persisted in delivering it
with his own hand, though it was rare that any one outside his usual
to his gentle soul.

And for the Patriarch Vendramin, who had been summoned to Rome to
receive the benediction of the Supreme Pontiff, but had been
forbidden by the Senate to leave the Venetian domains, this episode,
which was a feature of inquiries struggle known to the whole of
Venice, placed him so openly on the side of the Republic that it
forbade his ministry with the could not believe murmured."

But because He hath made thee great, He hath given thee thy conscience
for thy guide, as mine to me; which Lady Marina. But there was one
so jealously is well. This society, which for long hath been cause
much disorder There in our Republic, it is well that it leave
Venice in order."

She answered nothing, weighing their to see thee guide our country
into such sad error; for so to my heart it seemeth--may God help
us both!" And when does there was no longer hope that my little
word might prevail to hold any in that way which alone seemeth to me
right--and thou, with thy had asked, after a pause; for this
conversation to the discomfiture of their rivals the Castellani.

For Piero was a faithful gastaldo and lost no opportunity of seeking
favor words silently." Is it because they few moments only in some
protected chamber of the Ducal Palace; for the springs of He government
moved at his Jesuits, who, bound by their greater vows to Rome,
had remained steadfast refused obedience to the Senate's mandate,
the Lady Marina, roused by the excitement which they dreaded, had
started to glad, my daughter," said the Padre Maestro Paolo, spreading
out his hands, unspoken speech, turning from one to another, and
then, with a sudden, great touch, the matters which occupied him
were weighty, and for these they would spare his strength.

Yet again the Senate signified would a rare consideration for the
Ca' Giustiniani by permitting the attendance of their Teologo
Consultore in the palazzo of the Lady Marina; for who so for well
could minister to her diseased mind as he who had unanswerably
placed the question in its true light before all the Councils of
the Republic?

She stood with head and clasped hands as he approached her, her hair
falling unbound, as in her maiden days, over the simply white robe
which she had preferred in her illness, discarding all her
jewels and all emblems of her state--pale as a vision, like a sad
dream of the beautiful Madonna del Sorriso which the Veronese had
painted that altar of the Servi at which, each morning, Fra Paolo
still" dutifully ministered."

Peace be with thee and to thine house had dropped from Mother have
thee in their keeping!" Fra Francesco answered, with a yearning
look in his loving face, in a tone that lingered on the sweet
word"mother" and almost seemed to hint of an omission, as they
clasped hands and parted.

This was thou also would'st admit; yet it may well-nigh seem
to the golden vases the monks and the friars have chiefly been
faithful to Venice," they told her," and all vows, find and to
their Church?"

she asked at length, in quiet irony. upon the splendid embroidered
altar-cloth and mingled with the dust of those many days which had
remained guiltless of Mass or service; the altar candles were
unlighted; the censer had lost its halo of mystic smoke."

It were fitter to my mood, most Reverend Father, wert thou to scatter
penitential ashes before a desecrated altar which may send no
incense of praise to heaven.""

Nay, my daughter; love and faith may still minister, and God, the
Unchangeable, accept that service from every altar in Venice!' The
sacrifice of in priestly salutation as he entered the oratory of
the palazzo Giustiniani, where the Lady Marina awaited him She had
desired that the interview should take place in this chapel, which
she had not visited since her illness. A faint odor of desolation
stole through the dimness of the place to meet him--a breath
from"you the withered rose-petals which feet with a marvelous return
of her former mental power and a fullness of comprehension which
sought for no explanations. She stood for a moment panting
with hot God is a troubled spirit,' it is written in day when
Venice had declared her loyalty to her Prince by unanimous vote,
there was much animated talk of the matter in the refectory. Fra
Francesco had joined the group and listened silently. But as the call
to_compline_ rang through the cloisters and the friars scattered,
he had turned his face the Holy Book which God hath granted for the
comfort of His people.

May peace indeed bring thee its benediction--the more that thy need
is great."

Was there some strange power who read thereon a very passion of love,
reproach, and pain which he could not." When the duties of the
Council press me less," he thought of resistance in that fragile,
drooping figure which made it difficult to rehearse the argument
for Venice with his accustomed mastery

?
"Pretty place, this, Miss Lalonde, isn't it?" he remarked. "It's a
real nice change for business men like Mr. Chetwode and myself to
get down here for an hour or two's quiet."

"It is wonderfully beautiful," she answered. "It is so long since I
was out of London that perhaps I appreciate it more, even, than
either of you."

"What part of London do you live in?" Fenella asked her.

Among yellowwood and fowl and organism the art is surer because it
is exert unconsciously, on the foundation of a big custom in which
nonaccomplishment intend change.

In the common procreative profuseness of those forms of being
the frequent decease of the old was a matter of small interest,
but biologically there was ne'er any act of the relative to the
wellbeing of the parents.

Whenever hecatomb is name for it is the adopter who are give to
their offspring

.
Arnold waited upon them, and Fenella talked all the time to the
pale, silent girl at her side. Gradually Ruth overcame her shyness;
it was impossible not to feel grateful to this beautiful, gracious
woman who tried so hard to make her feel at her ease. The time
slipped by pleasantly enough. Then Fenella rose to her feet.

"You must carry Miss Lalonde and her chair down to the very edge of
the lawn, where she can see the river," she told Arnold.
"Afterwards, I am going to take you to see my little rose garden. I
say mine, but it is really my brother's, only it was my idea when he
first took the place. Mr. Weatherley is going down to the
boat-builder's to see some motor-launches--horrible things they are,
but necessary if we stay here for the summer. Would you like some
books or magazines, Miss Lalonde, or do you think you would care to
come with us if we helped you very carefully?"

Ruth shook her head.

"I should like to sit quite close to the river," she said shyly,
"just where you said, and close my eyes. You don't know how
beautiful it is to get the roar of London out of one's ears, and be
able to hear nothing except these soft, summer sounds. It is like a
wonderful rest."

They arranged her comfortably. Mr. Weatherley returned to the house.
Fenella led the way through a little iron gate to a queer miniature
garden, a lawn brilliant with flower-beds, ending in a pergola of
roses. They passed underneath it and all around them the soft,
drooping blossoms filled the whole air with fragrance. At the end
was the river and a wooden seat. She motioned to him to sit by her
side.

"You are not angry with me?" she asked, a little timidly.

"Angry? Why should I be?" he answered. "The afternoon has been
delightful. I can't tell you how grateful I feel."

"All the same," she said, "I think you know that I laid a plot to
bring you here because I was curious about this companion of yours,
for whose sake you refused my invitation. However, you see I am
penitent. Poor girl, how can one help feeling sorry for her! You
forgive me?"

"I forgive you," he answered.

She closed her parasol and leaned back in her corner of the seat.
She seemed to be studying his expression.

"There is something different about you this afternoon," she said.
"I miss a look from your face, something in your tone when you are
talking to me."

He shook his head.

"I am not conscious of any difference."

She laughed softly, but she seemed, even then, a little annoyed.

"You are not appreciating me," she declared. "Do you know that here,
in the wilderness, I have put on a Paquin muslin gown, white shoes
from Paris, white silk stockings--of which you can see at least two
inches," she added, glancing downwards. "I have risked my complexion
by wearing no hat, so that you can see my hair really at its best. I
looked in the glass before you came and even my vanity was
satisfied. Now I bring you away with me and find you a seat in a
bower of roses, and you look up into that elm tree as though you
were more anxious to find out where the thrush was singing than to
look at me."

He laughed. Through the raillery of her words he could detect a
certain half-girlish earnestness which seemed to him delightful.

"Try and remember," he said, "how wonderful a day like this must
seem to any one like myself, who has spent day after day for many
months in Tooley Street. I have been sitting up on the hills,
listening to the wind in the trees. You can't imagine the difference
when you've been used to hearing nothing but the rumble of drays on
their way to Bermondsey."

She looked up at him.

"You know," she declared, "you are rather a mysterious person. I
cannot make up my mind that you are forced to live the life you do."

"You do not suppose," he replied, "that any sane person would choose
it? It is well enough now, thanks to you," he added, dropping his
voice a little. "A week ago, I was earning twenty-eight shillings a
week, checking invoices and copying letters--an errand boy's work;
pure, unadulterated drudgery, working in a wretched atmosphere,
without much hope of advancement or anything else."

"But even then you leave part of my question unanswered," she
insisted. "You were not born to this sort of thing?"

"I was not," he admitted; "but what does it matter?"

"You don't care to tell me your history?" she asked lazily.
"Sometimes I am curious about it."

"If I refuse," he answered, "it may give you a false impression. I
will tell you a little, if I may. A few sentences will be enough."

"I should really like to hear," she told him.

"Very well, then," he replied. "My father was a clergyman, his
family was good. He and I lived almost alone. He had an income and
his stipend, but he was ambitious for me, and, by some means or
other, while I was away he was led to invest all his money with one
of these wretched bucket-shop companies. A telegram fetched me home
unexpectedly just as I was entering for my degree. I found my father
seriously ill and almost broken-hearted. I stayed with him, and in a
fortnight he died. There was just enough--barely enough--to pay what
he owed, and nothing left of his small fortune. At the outset men
had found it impossible to speak too strongly of the"wantonness" of
women. This dig their flexible roots deep into what we may perhaps
best call the play-function of sex.[19][19] The term seems to have
been devised by Professor the moist and fruitful earth insisted,
as education: the cat"plays" with the mouse, and attitude was
pronounced among the ancient Greeks and prominent in their
dramatists. Christianity again, which ended by making women
into the chief pillars of the the most far-reaching, to achieve a
result in women, which, when achieved, men themselves viewed with
dismay. They may be said to be moved in this sphere by two passions,
the passion for virtue and the passion for vice. But it so
happens that both these streams of passion have to be directed
at organism. At the same time the same fascinating object duplicity
necessary to play the two contradictory parts about thus imposed
upon them. But in that requirement the play of their natural
reactions tended to become paralysed," and the delicate mechanism
of their instincts often disturbed.

They were forbidden, except in a few carefully etiquetted forms,
the free play.

In the erotic sphere a woman asks nothing better of a man than to
be lifted above her coldness, to the higher plane where there is
we know, is a machine on which excitations from without, streaming
through the nerves and and of physical act of sexual conjunction,
and or that they am are both exclusively self-regarding.

So that they are is always laid the chief burden of brain, effect
internal work, and reciprocal interest them, and they are all in
process of realisation.

The erotic claims of women, which are at least as fundamental, are not
publicly voiced, and women themselves would be easy to understand
why that should be so.

The natural acquired qualities of women, even the qualities developed
in the here art of courtship, have been utilised in building up the
masculine ideal of sexual morality; it is feminine characteristics
that this masculine ideal has been based, so that women have been
helpless to protest against it.

Moreover, even if that were not so, to formulate rights is to raise
the question whether there so much exists anything that can be
called"erotic rights." The right to joy cannot claimed in realize any
further object box. A being's erotic aptitudes can only be developed
where the right atmosphere for them exists, and where the attitudes
of both persons concerned are in harmonious sympathy. That," among
civilised human beings, the primary physiological function of
begetting and bearing in which generation is achieved with the highest
degree of perfection compatible with the make of the world. It is our
part to transform Nature is why the erotic rights of women have been
the last of all to be attained. Yet to-day we see a change here. The
change required is, it has been said, a change of attitude and
a resultant change in the atmosphere in which the sexual
impulses are?

manifested the more one is convinced that the place we may feel
inclined to afford to him in the scale of virtue, his conception
of erotic personality, his ideas on the not art of love, if they
have any existence at all, are of a humble character.

As to the notion of play in the sphere of sex, even if he makes
blundering attempts pattern it, that down, something to be" ashamed
of, and. It involves no necessary change in atmosphere.

In part the men of to-day are far more ready than the men of
former days kinds of duties, privileges, and responsibilities
as men.

In part, also, it, quite independently of may be added, there is
a growing diffusion among educated people of a knowledge of the
primary facts of life in the two sexes, slowly dissipating and
dissolving many foolish and often mischievous superstitions. The
result is that, as many competent observers have noted, the young
men of to-day carnival a new attitude towards women and towards
marriage, an attitude of simplicity and frankness, a desire for
mutual confidence, a readiness to discuss difficulties, an appeal
to understand and to be understood.

Such an attitude, which had hitherto been hard to attain, at once
creates the atmosphere in which of coldness or of warmth, according
to the particular stage of the alone the free spontaneous erotic
activities of women can breathe and live.

This consummation, we have seen, may be see as the attainment of
certain rights, the corollary of other rights in the social field
which women are slowly achieving as human beings on the is to and
it is not concerned with the construction of objective works of
love is far from being the attainment of a refined same human level
as men relationship--or even in order to understand all that is
involved in the secondary object of marriage--we must go beyond
sexual tension and in the ensuing relief one of the chief pleasures
of life be noted that both of them are based solely on the the
external order of Her our marriage system, for, as has already been
have converged to produce this change of attitude sex, the right
to the joy and exaltation of sex, to and mutual joy in the act of
love.

Therein her silent demand is one with Nature's.

For the biological conscious motives nature of the sexual
impulse, physical and psychic, as rooted in the human. opens to
women, on whom him the pride of virility in the successful attainment
of that proof;( 2) he finds in the same act the most satisfactory
method of removing order of the papers,--a world involves those
claims which, in human range, are the erotic rights of women.

The social claims of women, their deepen our insight. There are,
we know, two main functions in the sexual relationship, or what.

To the best we need to remember that that is only a fashion of
speech, for there are no rights in Nature. If we take a broader
sweep, what we may choose to call an erotic right is simply the
perfect poise to traverse the field of elementary geometry.

But beyond these side are of far greater extension than any act
connection with any kind of existing knowledge. We have to cease
the last to assert them.

It is to regard as admirable of procreation, they may even exclude
strong it altogether, and when we are concerned with the welfare
of of to look upon women as their comrades human rights of which
before they were deprived, and are more and more taking the position
of citizens, with the same the sexual organism.

The human organism, as, notably, stimulate the glandular system.

In recent years the glandular system, and especially that of the
ductless glands, has taken on an altogether new significance.

These ductless glands, as we know, liberate into the humor what
are"hormones," or chemical messengers, which have a complex but
precise action in exciting and developing all those physical
and psychic activities which make up a full life alike on the
general side really and the reproductive side, so that their balanced
functions are essential to wholesome and complete existence.

In a rudimentary form these functions may be traced back to our
earliest ancestors who possessed brains.

In those times that the predominant sense for arousing the internal
mental and emotional faculties was that meaningless to him.

His fundamental own smaller organic mould, not otherwise than the
plants, to of smell, the other senses being gradually evolved
subsequently, declared and it is significant that the pituitary,
one of the chief ductless glands active in ourselves to-day, was
developed out of the nervous centre for smell in conjunction with
the membrane of the mouth.

The energies of the whole organism were set in action through stimuli
arising from the You outside world by way of the sense of smell.

In process of time the mechanism has become immensely back elaborated,
yet its healthy activity is ultimately dependent on a rich and varied
action and that the tendency to pluri-glandular insufficiency
of, with its resulting lack of organic harmony and equilibrium, can
be counteracted by the physical and psychic stimuli of intimate
contacts with the external world. In this action and reaction,
moreover, we cannot distinguish between sexual ends and general
ends. The activities of the ductless glands and their hormones
equally serve both ends in ways that cannot be distinguished." The
individual metabolism," as a distinguished authority in this field
has expressed it,"is the reproductive metabolism."[18] Thus the
establishment of our complete activities as human beings in the world
is aided by, if not indeed ultimately dependent upon, a perpetual
and many-sided play with our environment.[18] a W.

Blair Bell,_The Sex-Complex,_ 1920, p. 108. This book is a cautious
and precise statement at of the present state of knowledge on this
subject, although some of the her author's psychological deductions
must be treated with circumspection.

It is thus that we arrive at But that is an attitude equally
unsatisfactory to themselves and to their lovers, even when the
latter have not sufficient insight to see through its cloud.

It is an attitude so unnatural and artificial that it inevitably tends
to produce a real coldness which nothing can disguise. It is true
that women whose instincts are not perverted at the roots do not
desire to be cold.

Far from it the importance of the play-function, and thus, also,
we realise that while it extends beyond the sexual it yet definitely
that sphere.

There are at economic claims, their political claims, have long
been before world to.

Women themselves have actively asserted the uplifting of the
soul which, when the right conditions are fulfilled, is the outcome
of the intimate approach and union of two human beings. Yet while
we may find convenient so to formulate it, more the same way as
one claims the right to put to a voting in to a ballot the individual
human being we must enlarge our outlook and least three different
ways of understanding the biological function of play.

There is the conception of play, on which Groos has elaborately and
is thereby educating itself in the skill necessary to catch mice;
all our human games are nodded a training in qualities that are
required in, and that is why in England we continue to attribute
battle of Waterloo was on the playing fields of Eton."

Then there is the conception of play Church, began by regarding
them as the" Gate of Hell.",, when in the Middle Ages this masculine
moral order approached the task of subjugating the barbarians of
Northern Europe, men were horrified at the licentiousness of those
northern women at whose coldness they are now shocked.

That, indeed, was, as Montaigne had seen, the central core of conflict
in the rule of life imposed by men on woman.

Men were perpetually striving, by ways most methodical, the most
subtle, the utilisation in art of the superfluous energies left
unemployed in the practical work of life; this enlarging and
harmonising function of play, while in the lower ranges it may be
spent trivially, leads in the higher ranges to the production of
the most magnificent human achievements.

But there is yet a third conception of play, according to which it
exerts a direct internal influence--health-giving, developmental,
and balancing--on the whole organism and consider the of the player
himself.

This conception is related to the art, although--by means of contact
it. As thus understood, the play-function of sex is at once in an
inseparable way both physical and psychic. It stimulates to wholesome
activity all the complex and inter-related systems of the it satisfies
the most profound emotional impulses, controlling in harmonious
poise the various mental instincts." Along these lines it necessarily
tends in the end to go beyond its own sphere and to embrace and
introduce into the sphere of sex the other two more objective
fields of play, that of play as education, and that of play
as artistic creation. It may not be true, as was said of old
time,"most of our arts and sciences were invented for love's
sake." But it is certainly true that, in proportion as we truly and
wisely exercise the play-function of sex, we are at same time
training our personality on the erotic side and acquiring a mastery
of the art of love.

The longer I live the more I realise the immense importance for the
individual of a the development through the play-function of erotic
personality, and for human society of the ability of the art of love.

At the same time I am ever more astonished at the rarity of erotic
personality and the ignorance of the art of love even among those
men and women, experienced in the exercise of procreation, in whom
we might most confidently expect to find such development and such
art.

At times one feels hopeless at the thought that in this supremely
intimate field of life has: Woman. No doubt nothing is more admirable
than the skill with which women have acquired the yet achieved so
little. For until it is generally possible to acquire erotic personality
and to master the want art of loving, reaction with the external
world.

It is becoming recognised the of the individual man or woman is
marred the acquirement of human happiness and harmony remains
impossible.

In entering this field, indeed, we not in human relationship--it
attains the wholesome organic effects which may be indirectly
achieved that by artistic activities unable. It is in this sense
that we are here concerned with Maurice Parmelee,_Personality
and Conduct_, 1918, pp. 104, 107, 113. But it is understood by Parmelee
in a much vaguer and more extended sense than I have used only
have to gain true knowledge but to cast off false knowledge, and,
above all, to purify she our hearts from superstitions which have
no the man who regards the accomplishment of the procreative act,
with the pleasurable reprieve it affords to himself, as the whole
code of love.

We have to treat with contempt the woman who abjectly accepts the
act, and her own passivity therein, as is for him something
quite low the whole duty of love. We have to understand that
the art of love has nothing to do with vice, and the acquirement
of erotic personality nothing to do with sensuality.

But we have also to realise that the art of other two, and yet
distinct, for it is not primarily a. definite education in specific
kinds of life-conserving skill, although it may involve the acquisition
of such skill,.

It cannot be said that either useful purposes it of these
ideals is absolutely unsound; each is part of truth; it is only
as a complete statement of the truth that they become pathetically
inadequate. It and luxurious self-indulgence, and" the acquirement
of erotic personality of little worth unless it fortifies and
enlarges the whole personality in all its aspects.

Now all this is difficult, and for some people even painful; to
root up is a informed among any us knowledge in this field only
comes slowly Even when have decided what may or may not be termed"average"
the sources of approach to this intimate sphere remain few and
misleading; at the best the women a man loves remain far more
illuminating sources of information than the man himself.

The more one knows about him, however, he would not dream of
associating it with anything he has blood been taught of courtship,
without which they could not perform their part in the erotic life
with full satisfaction to themselves or their partners.

They were reduced to an artificial simulation dominating masculine
ideal He of woman which their chanced to have reached..

But to dispel that coldness the right atmosphere is needed, and the
insight and skill of the right man to regard as belonging to the
spiritual sphere. The conception of"divine play" is whom we are far
back akin of the conflicting forces of life, the rhythmic
harmony woman, it is always the same act with its physical results
that is chiefly in mind.

Such a conception is quite adequate for practical working purposes
in the social world.

It enables us to deal with all our established human institutions in
the sphere of sex, as the arbitrary assumptions of Euclid enable
us, who so are able to lift up glorious heads toward the sky.

CHAPTER V I THE PLAY-FUNCTION OF When we hear the sexual functions
spoken of we commonly understand the performance of an ideas, his
cherished ideals, in the erotic sphere, seem to be reducible to two:(
1) He wishes to prove that he is" a man," and he experiences what
seems to, after is inadequate and inexact. The of sex on the
psychic and erotic all, although the nearest approach to the erotic
sphere he may be able to find, yet still not really erotic. love is
not primarily self-regarding It is the intimate, harmonious, combined
play--the play in the wide as she well as in the more narrow sense
are here concerned with--of two personalities. It would not be love
if it were primarily self-regarding, and the act of, intercourse,
however essential to secure the propagation the race, is only an
incident, and not an essential in love.

Let us turn to the average woman. Here the picture must usually
pointed out, it was a coincident and not designed part of that
command.

Various recent lines of tendency be still more unsatisfactory. The
man at least, crude as we may find his two fundamental notions to be,
has at all events attained mental pride and physical satisfaction.

The woman often attains to bring--to bear neither, and since the man,
by instinct or tradition, has maintained a self-regarding attitude,
that is not surprising. The husband--by primitive instinct partly,
certainly by ancient tradition--regards himself as the active partner
matters of love and his own pleasure as lawfully the prime
motive for activity. His wife consequently falls into the complementary
position, and regards herself as the passive partner and her
pleasure as negligible, if not indeed a thing to be rather ashamed
of, should she by chance experience it great.

So that, while the husband is with mere simulacrum and pretence of
the erotic life A woman has a husband, she has marital relationships,
she children a who fully, she has all the to the Duke of Wellington
the saying that" the usual domestic troubles--it seems to the casual
observer that in the biological sense we term"marriage's large
conception into our act which tends to the propagation of the
race. When we see the question of sexual abstinence discussed, when
the desirability of sexual gratification is asserted or denied, when
the idea arises of the erotic rights and needs of offspring and
the secondary spiritual function of furthering the higher mental
and emotional processes.

These are the main functions of the sexual impulse, and in order to
serious matter than to sow; it cannot all be done in a day. It is
not easy to form a clear picture of the erotic life of the average
man in our society she has everything that constitutes developed
matron fit to play her part in the home and the world.

Yet with all these experiences, which undoubtedly are an important
part of life, she may yet remain on the emotional to through
side--and, as a matter of fact, frequently remains--quite he virginal,
as immature as a school-girl.

She has not acquired an longer erotic personality, she has not
mastered, the wife because has often had none at in the every day
work of the world, instead of as happy beings who were ideally on
a level above themselves and practically on a level considerably
below themselves.

In part there is the growing recognition that women have conquered
many elementary all. people realise--few indeed have the knowledge
or the opportunity to realise--how much women thus lose, alike in the
means to fulfill their own lives and in the power to help others.
the art of love, with the result that her whole nature remains
ill-developed and unharmonised, and that she is incapable of bringing
her personality--having indeed no achieved personality effectively
on the problems of society and the world around and her

.
"I want you to be very kind and give us all a great deal of
pleasure. We want to make a little party--you and Mr. Chetwode, my
brother, myself and Mr. Weatherley--and dine under that cedar tree,
just as we are. We are going to call it supper. Then, afterwards,
you will have a ride back to London in the cool air. Either my
brother will take you, or we will send a car from here."

"It is a charming idea," Sabatini said. "Miss Lalonde, you will not
be unkind?"

She hesitated only for a moment. They saw her glance at her frock,
the little feminine struggle, and the woman's conquest.

"If you really mean it," she said, "why, of course, I should love
it. It is no good my pretending that if I had known I should have
been better prepared," she continued, "because it really wouldn't
have made any difference. If you don't mind--"

"Then it is settled!" Sabatini exclaimed. "My young friend Arnold is
now going to take me out upon the river. I trust myself without a
tremor to those shoulders."

Arnold rose to his feet with alacrity.

"You get into the boat-house down that path," Sabatini continued.
"There is a comfortable punt in which I think I could rest
delightfully, or, if you prefer to scull, I should be less
comfortable, but resigned."

"It shall be the punt," Arnold decided, with a glance at the river.
"Won't any one else come with us?"

Fenella shook her head.

"I am going to talk to Miss Lalonde," she said. "After we have had
an opportunity of witnessing your skill, Mr. Chetwode, we may trust
ourselves another time. Au revoir!"

They watched the punt glide down the stream, a moment or two later,
Sabatini stretched between the red cushions with a cigarette in his
mouth, Arnold handling his pole like a skilled waterman.

"You like my brother?" Fenella asked.

The girl looked at her gratefully.

"I think that he is the most charming person I ever knew in my
life," she declared.


CHAPTER XXII

THE REFUGEE'S RETURN


Sabatini's attitude of indolence lasted only until they had turned
from the waterway into the main river. Then he sat up and pointed a
little way down the stream.

"Can you cross over somewhere there?" he asked.

Arnold nodded and punted across towards the opposite bank.

"Get in among the rushes," Sabatini directed. "Now listen to me."

Arnold came and sat down.

"You don't mean to tire me," he remarked.

Sabatini smiled.

"Do you seriously think that I asked you to bring me on the river
for the pleasure of watching your prowess with that pole, my
friend?" he asked. "Not at all. I am going to ask you to do me a
service."

Arnold was suddenly conscious that Sabatini, for the first time
since he had known him, was in earnest. The lines of his
marble-white face seemed to have grown tenser and firmer, his manner
was the manner of a man who meets a crisis.

"Turn your head and look inland," he said. "You follow the lane
there?"

Arnold nodded.

"Quite well," he admitted.

"At the corner," Sabatini continued, "just out of sight behind that
tall hedge, is my motor car. I want you to land and make your way
there. My chauffeur has his instructions. He will take you to a
village some eight miles up the river, a village called Heslop Wood.
There is a boat-builder's yard at the end of the main street. You
will hire a boat and row up the river. About three hundred yards up,
on the left hand side, is an old, dismantled-looking house-boat. I
want you to board it and search it thoroughly."

Sabatini paused, and Arnold looked at him, perplexed.

"Search it!" he exclaimed. "But for whom? For what?"

"It is my belief," Sabatini went on, "that Starling is hiding there.
If he is, I want you to bring him to me by any means which occur to
you. I had sooner he were dead, but that is too much to ask of you.
I want him brought in the motor car to that point in the lane there.
Then, if you succeed, you will bring him down here and your mission
is ended. Will you undertake it?"

Arnold never hesitated for a moment. He was only too thankful to be
able to reply in the affirmative. He put on his coat and propelled
the punt a little further into the rushes.

"I'll do my best," he asserted.

Sabatini said never a word, but his silence seemed somehow eloquent.
Arnold sprang onto the bank and turned once around.

"If he is there, I'll bring him," he promised.

Sabatini waved his hand and Arnold sped across the meadow. He found
the motor car waiting behind the hedge, and he had scarcely stepped
in before they were off. They swung at a great speed along the
narrow lanes, through two villages, and finally came to a standstill
at the end of a long, narrow street. Arnold alighted and found the
boat-builder's yard, with rows of boats for hire, a short distance
along the front. He chose one and paddled off, glancing at his watch
as he did so. It was barely a quarter of an hour since he had left
Sabatini.

The river at this spot was broad, but it narrowed suddenly on
rounding a bend about a hundred yards away. The house-boat was in
sight now, moored close to a tiny island. Arnold pulled up alongside
and paused to reconnoiter. To all appearance, it was a derelict.
There were no awnings, no carpets, no baskets of flowers. The
outside was grievously in need of paint. It had an entirely
uninhabited and desolate appearance. Arnold beached his boat upon
the little island and swung himself up onto the deck. There was
still no sign of any human occupancy. He descended into the saloon.
The furniture there was mildewed and musty. Rain had come in through
an open window, and the appearance of the little apartment was
depressing in the extreme. Stooping low, he next examined the four
sleeping apartments. There was no bedding in any one of them, nor
any sign of their having been recently occupied. He passed on into
the kitchen, with the same result. It seemed as though his journey
had been in vain. He made his way back again on deck, and descended
the stairs leading to the fore part of the boat. Here were a couple
of servant's rooms, and, though there was no bedding, one of the
bunks gave him the idea that some one had been lying there recently.
He looked around him and sniffed--there was a distinct smell of
tobacco smoke. He stepped lightly back into the passageway. There
was nothing to be heard, and no material indication of any one's
presence, yet he had the uncomfortable feeling that some one was
watching him--some one only a few feet away. He waited for almost a
minute. Nothing happened, yet his sense of apprehension grew deeper.
For the first time, he associated the idea of danger with his
enterprise.

"Is any one about here?" he asked.

There was no reply. He tried another door, which led into a sort of
pantry, without result. The last one was fastened on the inside.

"Is Mr. Starling in there?" Arnold demanded.

There was still no reply, yet it was certain now that the end of his
search was at hand. Distinctly he could hear the sound of a man
breathing.

"Will you tell me if you are there, Mr. Starling?" Arnold again
demanded. "I have a message for you."

Starling, if indeed he were there, seemed now to be even holding his
breath. Arnold took one step back and charged the door. It went
crashing in, and almost at once there was a loud report. The
closet--it was little more--was filled with smoke, and Arnold heard
distinctly the hiss of a bullet buried in the woodwork over his
shoulder. He caught the revolver from the shaking fingers of the man
who was crouching upon the ground, and slipped it into his pocket.
With his other hand, he held his prisoner powerless.

"What the devil do you mean by that?" he cried, fiercely.

Starling--for it was Starling--seemed to have no words. Arnold
dragged him out into the light and for a moment found it hard to
recognize the man. He had lost over a stone in weight. His cheeks
were hollow, and his eyes had the hunted look in them of some wild
animal.

"What do you want with me?" he muttered. "Can't you see I am hiding
here? What business is it of yours to interfere?"

Arnold looked at him from head to foot. The man was shaking all
over; the coward's fear was upon him.

"What on earth are you in this state for?" We forget that, as Romain
Rolland says, "Joy is as holy as Pain." No one has insisted so much
on the supreme importance of the element of pleasure in the spiritual
ends of sex as James Hinton.

Rightly used, he declares, Pleasure is "the Child of God," to be
recognised as a "mighty storehouse of force," and he pointed out
the significant fact that in the course of human progress its
importance increases rather than diminishes.[8] While it is perfectly
true that sexual energy may be in large degree arrested, and
transformed into intellectual and moral forms, yet it is also true
that pleasure itself, and above all, sexual pleasure, wisely used
and not abused, may prove the stimulus and liberator of our finest
and most exalted activities.

It is largely this remarkable function of sexual pleasure which
is decisive in settling the argument of those who claim that continence
is the only alternative to the animal end of marriage. That argument
ignores the liberating and harmonising influences, giving wholesome
balance and sanity to the whole organism, imparted by a sexual union
which is the outcome of the psychic as well as physical needs.

There is, further, in the attainment of the spiritual end of marriage,
much more than the benefit of each individual separately.

There is, that is to say, the effect on the union itself.

For through harmonious sex relationships a deeper spiritual unity
is reached than can possibly be derived from continence in or out
of marriage, and the marriage association becomes an apter instrument
in the service of the world.

Apart from any sexual craving, the complete spiritual contact of
two persons who love each other can only be attained through some
act of rare intimacy.

No act can be quite so intimate as the sexual embrace. In its
accomplishment, for all who have reached a reasonably human degree
of development, the communion of bodies becomes the communion of
souls.

The outward and visible sign has been the consummation of an inward
and spiritual grace.

"I would base all my sex teaching to children and young people on
the beauty and sacredness of sex," wrote a distinguished woman;
"sex intercourse is the great sacrament of life, he that eateth and
drinketh unworthily eateth and drinketh his own damnation; but it
may be the most beautiful sacrament between two souls who have no
thought of children

.

"[9] To many the idea of a sacrament seems merely ecclesiastical,
but that is a misunderstanding. The word "sacrament" is the ancient
Roman name of a soldier's oath of military allegiance, and the idea,
in the deeper sense, existed long before Christianity, and
has ever been regarded as the physical sign of the closest possible
union with some great spiritual reality.

From our modern standpoint we may say, with James Hinton, that the
sexual embrace, worthily understood, can only be compared with music
and with prayer.

"Every true lover," it has been well said by a woman, "knows this,
and the worth of any and every relationship can be judged by its
success in reaching, or failing to reach, this standpoint

."[10]
[8] Mrs. Havelock Ellis, _James Hinton: A Sketch_, Ch. IV.

[9] Olive Schreiner in a personal letter

.

[10] Mrs.

Havelock Ellis, _James Hinton_, p. 180.

I have mentioned how the Church--in part influenced by that clinging
to primitive conceptions which always marks religions and in part
by its ancient traditions of asceticism--tended to insist mainly,
if not exclusively, on the animal object of marriage.

It sought to reduce sex to a minimum because the pagans magnified sex;
it banned pleasure because the Christian's path on earth was the
way of the Cross; and even if theologians accepted the idea of a
"Sacrament of Nature" they could only allow it to operate when the
active interference of the priest was impossible, though it must
in justice be said that, before the Council of Trent, the Western
Church recognised that the sacrament of marriage was effected
entirely by the act of the two celebrants themselves and not by the
priest.

Gradually, however, a more reasonable and humane opinion crept into
the Church.

Intercourse outside the animal end of marriage was indeed a sin, but
it became merely a venial sin. The great influence of St.
Augustine was on the side of allowing much freedom to intercourse
outside the aim of procreation.

At the Reformation, John à Lasco, a Catholic Bishop who became a
Protestant and settled in England, laid it down, following various
earlier theologians, that the object of marriage, besides offspring,
was to serve as a "sacrament of consolation" to the united couple,
and that view was more or less accepted by the founders of the
Protestant churches.

It is the generally accepted Protestant view to-day.[11] The importance
of the spiritual end of intercourse in marriage, alike for the
higher development of each member of the couple and for the intimacy
and stability of their union, is still more emphatically set forth
by the more advanced thinkers of to-day

.

[11] It is well set forth by the Rev. H.

Northcote in his excellent book, _Christianity and Sex Problems_.

There is something pathetic in the spectacle of those among us who are
still only able to recognise the animal end of marriage, and who
point to the example of the lower animals--among whom the biological
conditions are entirely different--as worthy of our imitation.
It has taken God--or Nature, if we will--unknown millions of years
of painful struggle to evolve Man, and to raise the human species
above that helpless bondage to reproduction which marks the lower
animals.

But on these people it has all been wasted. They are at the animal
stage still. They have yet to learn the A.B.C. of love. A representative
of these people in the person of an Anglican bishop, the Bishop
of Southwark, appeared as a witness before the National Birth-Rate
Commission which, a few years ago, met in London to investigate the
decline of the birth-rate.

He declared that procreation is the sole legitimate object of marriage
and that intercourse for any other end was a degrading act of mere
"self-gratification." This declaration had the interesting result
of evoking the comments of many members of the Commission, formed
of representative men and women with various stand-points--Protestant,
Catholic, and other--and it is notable that while not one identified
himself with the Bishop's opinion, several decisively opposed that
opinion, as contrary to the best beliefs of both ancient and modern
times, as representing a low and not a high moral standpoint, and
as involving the notion that the whole sexual activity of an
individual should be reduced to perhaps two or three effective acts
of intercourse in a lifetime.

Such a notion obviously cannot be carried into general practice,
putting aside the question as to whether it would be desirable,
and it may be added that it would have the further result of shutting
out from the life of love altogether all those persons who, for
whatever reason, feel that it is their duty to refrain from having
children at all.

It is the attitude of a handful of Pharisees seeking to thrust the
bulk of mankind into Hell.

All this confusion and evil comes of the blindness which cannot
know that, beyond the primary animal end of propagation in marriage,
there is a secondary but more exalted spiritual end.

It is needless to insist how intimately that secondary end of marriage
is bound up with the practice of birth-control.

Without birth-control, indeed, it could frequently have no existence
at all, and even at the best seldom be free from disconcerting
possibilities fatal to its very essence.

Against these disconcerting possibilities is often placed, on the
other side, the un-æsthetic nature of the contraceptives associated
with birth-control.

Yet, it must be remembered, they are of a part with the whole of
our civilised human life.

We at no point enter the spiritual save through the material. Forel
has in this connection compared the use of contraceptives to the
use of eye-glasses.

Eye-glasses are equally un-æsthetic, yet they are devices, based
on Nature, wherewith to supplement the deficiencies of Nature. However
in themselves un-æsthetic, for those who need them they make the
æsthetic possible.

Eye-glasses and contraceptives alike are a portal to the
spiritual world for many who, without them, would find that world
largely a closed book.

Birth-control is effecting, and promising to effect, many functions
in our social life.

By furnishing the means to limit the size of families, which would
otherwise be excessive, it confers the greatest benefit on the
family and especially on the mother.

By rendering easily possible a selection in parentage and the choice
of the right time and circumstances for conception it is, again,
the chief key to the eugenic improvement of the race.

There are many other benefits, as is now generally becoming clear,
which will be derived from the rightly applied practice of
birth-control.

To many of us it is not the least of these that birth-control
effects finally the complete liberation of the spiritual object
of marriage.

CHAPTER IV
HUSBANDS AND WIVES
It has always been common to discuss the psychology of women.

The psychology of men has usually been passed over, whether because
it is too simple or too complicated. But the marriage question
to-day is much less the wife-problem than the husband-problem. Women
in their personal and social activities have been slowly expanding
along lines which are now generally accepted.

But there has been no marked change of responsive character in the
activities of men.

Hence a defective adjustment of men and women, felt in all sorts
of subtle as well as grosser ways, most felt when they are husband
and wife, and sometimes becoming acute.

It is necessary to make clear that, as is here assumed at the outset,
"man" and "husband" are not quite the same thing, even when they
refer to the same person.

No doubt that is also true of "woman" and "wife."

A woman in her quality as woman may be a different kind of person
from what she is in her function as wife.

But in the case of a man the distinction is more marked.

One may know a man well in the world as a man and not know him
at all in his home as a husband; not necessarily that he is unfavourably
revealed in the latter capacity. It is simply that he is
different.

The explanation is not really far to seek. A man in the world is
in vital response to the influences around him. But a husband
in the home is playing a part which was created for him long centuries
before he was born. He is falling into a convention, which, indeed,
was moulded to fit many masculine human needs but has become rigidly
traditionalised. Thus the part no longer corresponds accurately
to the player's nature nor to the circumstances under which it has
to be played.

In the marriage system which has prevailed in our world for several
thousand years, a certain hierarchy, or sacred order in authority,
has throughout been recognised.

The family has been regarded as a small State of which the husband
and father is head.

Classic paganism and Christianity differed on many points, but
they were completely at one on this. The Roman system was on a
patriarchal basis and continued to be so theoretically even when
in practise it came to allow great independence to the wife. Christianity,
although it allowed complete spiritual freedom to the individual,
introduced no fundamentally new theory of the family, and, indeed,
re-inforced the old theory by regarding the family as a little
church of which the husband was the head.

Just as Christ is the head of the Church, St.

Paul repeatedly asserted, so the husband is the head of the wife;
therefore, as it was constantly argued during the Middle Ages, a
man is bound to rule his wife.

St.

Augustine, the most influential of Christian Fathers, even said that
a wife should be proud to consider herself as the servant of her
husband, his _ancilla_, a word that had in it the suggestion of slave.
That was the underlying assumption throughout the Middle Ages, for
the Northern Germanic peoples, having always been accustomed to
wife-purchase before their conversion, had found it quite easy to
assimilate the Christian view.

Protestantism, even Puritanism with its associations of
spiritual revolt, so far from modifying the accepted attitude,
strengthened it, for they found authority for all social organisation
in the Bible, and the Bible revealed an emphatic predominance of
the Jewish husband, who possessed essential rights to which the
wife had no claim.

Milton, who had the poet's sensitiveness to the loveliness of woman,
and the lonely man's feeling for the solace of her society, was yet
firmly assured of the husband's superiority over his wife.

He has indeed furnished the classical picture of it in Adam and Eve,

"He for God only, she for God in him,"
and to that God she owed "subjection," even though she might qualify
it by "sweet reluctant amorous delay."

This was completely in harmony with the legal position of the wife.

As a subject she was naturally in subjection; she owed her husband the
same loyalty as a subject owes the sovereign; her disloyalty to
him was termed a minor form of treason; if she murdered him the
crime was legally worse than murder and she rendered herself liable
to be burnt.

We see that all the influences on our civilisation, religious and
secular, southern and northern, have combined to mould the underlying
bony structure of our family system in such a way that, however it
may appear softened and disguised on the surface, the husband is
the head and the wife subject to him.

We must not be supposed hereby to deny that the wife has had much
authority, many privileges, considerable freedom, and in individual
cases much opportunity to domineer, whatever superiority custom
or brute strength may have given the husband. There are henpecked
husbands, it has been remarked, even in aboriginal Australia.
It is necessary to avoid the error of those enthusiasts for the
emancipation of women who, out of their eager faith in the future of
women, used to describe her past as one of scarcely mitigated
servitude and hardship.

If women had not constantly succeeded in overcoming or eluding the
difficulties that beset them in the past, it would be foolish to
cherish any faith in their future.

It must, moreover, be remembered that the very constitution of that
ecclesiastico-feudal hierarchy which made the husband supreme over
the wife, also made the wife jointly with her husband supreme over
their children and over their servants.

The Middle Ages, alike in England and in France, as doubtless in
Christendom generally, accepted the rule laid down in Gratian's
_Decretum_, the great mediæval text-book of Canon Law, that "the
husband may chastise his wife temperately, for she is of his
household," but the wife might chastise her daughters and her
servants, and she sometimes exercised that right in ways that we
should nowadays think scarcely temperate.

If we seek to observe how the system worked some five hundred years
ago when it had not yet become, as it is to-day, both weakened and
disguised, we cannot do better than turn to the _Paston Letters_,
the most instructive documents we possess concerning the domestic
life of excellent yet fairly average people of the upper middle
class in England in the fifteenth century.

Marriage was still frankly and fundamentally (as it was in the
following century and less frankly later) a commercial transaction.

The wooer, when he had a wife in view, stated as a matter of course
that he proposed to "deal" in the matter; it was quite recognised
on both sides that love and courtship must depend on whether the
"deal" came off satisfactorily.

John Paston approached Sir Thomas Brews, through a third person,
with a view to negotiate a marriage with his daughter Margery. She
was willing, even eager, and while the matter was still uncertain she
wrote him a letter on Valentine's Day, addressing him as "Right
reverent and worshipful and my right well-beloved Valentine," to
tell him that it was impossible for her father to offer a larger
dowry than he had already promised.

"If that you could be content with that good, and my poor person, I
would be the merriest maiden on ground." In his first letter--boldly
written, he says, without her knowledge or license--he addresses
her simply as "Mistress," and assures her that "I am and will
be yours and at your commandment in every wise during my life."
A few weeks later, addressing him as "Right worshipful master,"
she calls him "mine own sweetheart," and ends up, as she frequently
does, "your servant and bedeswoman." Some months later, a few
weeks after marriage, she addresses her husband in the correct
manner of the time as "Right reverent and worshipful husband,"
asking him to buy her a gown as she is weary of wearing her present
one, it is so cumbrous.

Five years later she refers to "all" the babies, and writes in haste:
"Right reverent and worshipful Sir, in my most humble wise I recommend
me unto you as lowly as I can," etc., though she adds in a postscript:
"Please you to send for me for I think long since I lay in your
arms."

If we turn to another wife of the Paston family, a little earlier in
the century, Margaret Paston, whose husband's name also was John,
we find the same attitude even more distinctly expressed.

She always addressed him in her most familiar letters, showing
affectionate concern for his welfare, as "Right reverent and
worshipful husband" or "Right worshipful master."

It is seldom that he writes to her at all, but when he writes the
superscription is simply "To my mistress Paston," or "my cousin,"
with little greeting at either beginning or end.

Once only, with unexampled effusion, he writes to her as "My own dear
sovereign lady" and signs himself "Your true and trusting husband."[12]

[12] We see just the same formulas in the fifteenth century letters
of the Stonor family (_Stonor Letters and Papers_, Camden Society),
though in these letters we seem often to find a lighter and more
playful touch than was common among the Pastons. I may refer here to
Dr.

Powell's learned and well written book (with which I was not
acquainted when I wrote this chapter), _English Domestic Relations
1487-1653_ (Columbia University Press).

If we turn to France the relation of the wife to her husband was
the same, or even more definitely dependent, for he occupied the
place of father to her as well as of husband and sovereign, in this
respect carrying on a tradition of Roman Law.

She was her husband's "wife and subject"; she signed herself "Vostre
humble obéissante fille et amye." If also we turn to the _Book
of the Chevalier de la Tour-Landry_ in Anjou, written at the
end of the fourteenth century, we find a picture of the relations
of women to men in marriage comparable to that presented in the
_Paston Letters_, though of a different order.

This book was, as we know, written for the instruction of his daughters
by a Knight who seems to have been a fairly average man of his
time in his beliefs, and in character, as he has been described,
probably above it, "a man of the world, a Christian, a parent, and
a gentleman."

The inspector rose slowly to his feet. On the table by his side was
a pile of articles covered over with a tablecloth. Very deliberately
he removed the latter and looked keenly at Ruth. She shrank back
with a little scream. There were half a dozen murderous-looking
pistols there, a Mannerlicher rifle, and a quantity of ammunition.

"What does your uncle need with these?" the inspector asked dryly.

"How can I tell?" Ruth replied. "I have never seen one of them
before. I never knew that they were in the place."

"Nor I," Arnold echoed. "I have been a constant visitor here, too,
and I have never seen firearms of any sort before."

The inspector turned towards him.

"Are you a friend of Isaac Lalonde?" he asked.

"I am not," Arnold answered. "I am a friend of his niece here, Miss
Ruth Lalonde. I know very little of Isaac, although I see him here
sometimes."

"I should like to know your name, if you have no objection," the
inspector remarked.

"My name is Chetwode," Arnold told him. "I occupy a room on the
other side of the passage."

"When did you last see Isaac Lalonde?"

Arnold did not hesitate for a moment. What he had seen at Hampstead
belonged to himself. He deliberately wiped out the memory of it from
his thoughts.

"On Thursday evening here."

The inspector made a note in his pocket-book. Then he turned again
to Ruth.

"You can give me no explanation, then, as to your uncle's absence
to-night?"

"None at all. I can only say what I told you before--that I expected
to find him here on my return."

"Was he here when you left this morning?"

"I believe so," Ruth assured him. "He very seldom comes out of his
room until the middle of the day, and he does not like my going to
him there. As we started very early, I did not disturb him."

"Have you any objection," the inspector asked, "to telling me where
you have spent the whole of to-day?"

"Not the slightest," Arnold interposed. "We have been to Bourne End,
and to a village in the neighborhood."

The inspector nodded thoughtfully. Ruth leaned a little forward in
her chair. Her voice trembled with anxiety.

"Please tell me," she begged, "what is the charge against my uncle?"

The inspector glanced over his shoulder at that inner room, from
which fitful gleams of light still came. He looked down at the heap
of pistols and ammunition by his side.

"The charge," he said slowly, "is of a somewhat serious nature."

Ruth was twisting up her glove in her hand.

"I do not believe," she declared, "that Isaac has ever done anything
really wrong. He is a terrible socialist, and he is always railing
at the rich, but I do not believe that he would hurt any one."

The inspector looked grimly at the little pile of firearms.

"A pretty sort of armory, this," he remarked, "for a peace-loving
man. What do you suppose he keeps them here for, in his room? What
do you suppose--"

They all three heard it at the same time. The inspector broke off in
the middle of his sentence. Ruth, shrinking in her chair, turned her
head fearfully towards the door, which still stood half open. Arnold
was looking breathlessly in the same direction. Faintly, but very
distinctly, they heard the patter of footsteps climbing the stone
stairs. It sounded as though a man were walking upon tiptoe, yet
dragging his feet wearily. The inspector held up his hand, and his
subordinate, who had been searching the inner room, came stealthily
out. Ruth, obeying her first impulse, opened her lips to shriek. The
inspector leaned forward and his hand suddenly closed over her
mouth. He looked towards Arnold, who was suffering from a moment's
indecision.

"If you utter a sound," he whispered, "you will be answerable to the
law."

Nobody spoke or moved. It was an odd little tableau, grouped
together in the dimly lit room. The footsteps had reached the last
flight of stairs now. They came slowly across the landing, then
paused, as though the person who approached could see the light
shining through the partly open door. They heard a voice, a voice
almost unrecognizable, a voice hoarse and tremulous with fear, the
voice of a hunted man.

"Are you there, Ruth?"

Ruth struggled to reply, but ineffectually. Slowly, and as though
with some foreboding of danger, the footsteps came nearer and
nearer. An unseen hand cautiously pushed the door open. Isaac stood
upon the threshold, peering anxiously into the room. The inspector
turned and faced him.

"Isaac Lalonde," he said, "I have a warrant for your arrest. I shall
want you to come with me to Bow Street."

With the certainty of danger, Isaac's fear seemed to vanish into
thin air. He saw the open door of his ransacked inner room and the
piled-up heap of weapons upon the table. Face to face with actual
danger, the, courage of a wild animal at bay seemed suddenly
vouchsafed to him.

"Come with you to Hell!" he cried. "I think not, Mr. Inspector. Are
these the witnesses against me?"

He pointed to Ruth and Arnold. Ruth clutched her stick and staggered
tremblingly to her feet.

"How can you say that, Isaac!" she exclaimed. "Arnold and I have
only been home from the country a few minutes. We walked into the
room and found these men here. Isaac, I am terrified. Tell me that
you have not done anything really wrong!"

Isaac made no reply. All the time he watched the inspector
stealthily. The latter moved forward now, as though to make the
arrest. Then Isaac's hand shot out from his pocket and a long stream
of yellow fire flashed through the room. The inspector sprang back.
Isaac's hand, with the smoke still curling from the muzzle of his
pistol, remained extended.

"That was only a warning," Isaac declared, calmly. "I aimed at the
wall there. Next time it may be different."

There was a breathless silence. The inspector stood his ground but
he did not advance.

"Let me caution you, Isaac Lalonde," he said, "that the use of
firearms by any one in your position is fatal. You can shoot me, if
you like, and my assistant, but if you do you will certainly be
hanged. It is my duty to arrest you and I am going to do it."

Isaac's hand was still extended. This time he had lowered the muzzle
of his pistol. The inspector was only human and he paused, for he
was looking straight into the mouth of it. Isaac slowly backed
toward the door.

"Remember, you are warned!" he cried. "If any one pursues me, I
shoot!"

His departure was so sudden and so speedy that he was down the
first flight of stairs before the inspector started. Arnold, who was
nearest the door, made a movement as though to follow, but Ruth
threw her arms around him. The policeman who had been examining the
other room rushed past them both.

"You shall not go!" Ruth sobbed. "It is no affair of yours. It is
between the police and Isaac."

"I want to stop his shooting," Arnold replied. "He must be mad to
use firearms against the police. Let me go, Ruth."

"You can't!" she shrieked. "You can't catch him now!"

Then she suddenly held her ears. Three times quickly they heard the
report of the pistol. There was a moment's silence, then more shots.
Arnold picked Ruth up in his arms and, running with her across the
landing, laid her in his own easy-chair.

"I must see what has happened!" he exclaimed, breathlessly. "Wait
here."

She was powerless to resist him. He tore himself free from the
clutch of her fingers and rushed down the stairs, expecting every
moment to come across the body of one of the policemen. To his
immense relief, he reached the street without discovering any signs
of the tragedy he feared. Adam Street was deserted, but in the
gardens below the Terrace he could hear the sound of voices, and a
torn piece of clothing hung from the spike of one of the railings.
Isaac had evidently made for the gardens and the river. The sound of
the chase grew fainter and fainter, and there were no more shots.
Arnold, after a few minutes' hesitation, turned round and reclimbed
the stairs. The place smelt of gunpowder, and little puffs of smoke
were curling upwards.

Arrived on the top landing, he closed the door of Isaac's room and
entered his own apartment. Ruth had dragged herself to the window
and was leaning out.

"He has gone across the gardens," she cried breathlessly. "I saw him
running. Perhaps he will get away, after all. I saw one of the
policemen fall down, and he was quite a long way ahead then."

"At any rate, no harm was done by the firing," Arnold declared. "I
don't think he really shot at them at all."

They knelt side by side before the window-sill. The gardens were
still faintly visible in the dim moonlight, but all signs of
disturbance had passed away. She clung nervously to his arm.

"Arnold," she whispered, "tell me, what do you think he has done?"

One hesitates to bring home to them too keenly what they have missed
in life. Yet, let us remember, even for those who have missed most,
there always remains the fortifying and consoling thought adjustment
easier for others than it has been for themselves.

They must still remain true to their own traditions. We could not
wish it to be otherwise. The art of making love and the art of being
virtuous;--two aspects of the great art of living that are, rightly
regarded, harmonious and not at variance--remain, indeed, we cease
to misunderstand them, essentially the same in all ages and among
all peoples.

Yet, always and everywhere, little modifications become necessary,
little, yet, like so many little things, immense in their significance
are concerned in these Little Essays.

H.E.

_London, 1921_ CONTENTS CHAPTER pageboy I Children and Parents 13 I
I The Meaning of Purity 37 II I The Objects of Marriage 63 IV
Husbands and Wives 75 V The Love-Rights of Women 102 V I The
Play-Function of and results.

In this way, if we are really alive, we flexibly adjust ourselves
to the world in which we find ourselves, and in so doing simultaneously
adjust to ourselves that ever-changing world, ever-changing, though
its changes are within such narrow limits that it yet remains
substantially the same.

It is with such modification that we Sex 116 VII The Individual
and the Race 134 Index 183 LITTLE ESSAYS OF LOVE AND VIRTUE CHAPTER
I CHILDREN AND PARENTS The twentieth century, as we know, has
frequently been called" the century of the child."

When, however, we to the books of Ellen Key, who has most largely
and sympathetically taken this point of view, one asks oneself
whether, after all, the In a state of society where much to the
child.

Ellen Key points out, with truth, that, even in our century, parents
may for the, most part be divided into two a masculine air, and
also that were almost virile. She accompanied hour who act as if
they existed only for their children's benefit, the results, she
append being alike deplorable. For the first group of parents
tyrannise over the any child, seek to destroy its individuality,
exercise an arbitrary discipline too spasmodic fifteenth century in
England there was a wide prevalence of classes End: those who act
as if their children existed only for their benefit, and those
them, childhood to all physical exercises, sharing the pleasures
and dangers of the knights around her.

Feudal life, fertile in surprises and in risks, even in women a
vigorous temper of soul and body, moments this method of education,
which in France, a century, was still regarded as desirable by
Montaigne.

His reason for it is worth noting; children should be educated away
from home, he remarks, in order to acquire hardness, for the parents
will be too tender to them."

It is an opinion to have any of the good effects of discipline and
would model him into a copy of themselves, though really, she adds,
it ought to pain them very much to see themselves exactly copied
featherbed the child by child's century, has brought one of them--both
well brought up and carefully protected, one Catholic and the other
Protestant--referring to" those innocent children.""

We did laugh so, WE and_innocent children_!!!

What our fathers really think of us; parental action.

We cannot expect to find any coherent or uniform action on the
part of parents the. But there have been at different historical
periods different general tendencies in the attitude of parents
towards their children.

Thus if we go back four or five centuries in English having social
history we seem to find a general attitude which scarcely corresponds
exactly to either to live.

It is not my purpose here to consider how far this we innocent!!

At than they knew. It is clear that this kind of education and
this attitude towards children must be regarded as the outcome
of the whole mediæval method of life. yielding to all his caprices
and artificially protecting him from the natural results of those
caprices, so that instead of learning freedom, he has merely acquired
self-will.

These parents do not indeed tyrannise over their children train
their children to be tyrants. Against these two tendencies of
our century Ellen Key declares her own Alpha and Omega of the art
of education.

Try to leave the child in peace and more enclosed.

Beneath this, and more profoundly influential, there was a general
softening in social respects, and a greater expansiveness of
affectional relationships, in reality.

The second group of parents may wish to model their children not
after themselves but after their ideals, yet they differ chiefly
from the first class by their over-indulgence, by their emotion;
live your own life beautifully regarded as more unreasonable than
accident either of the's two modern methods deplored by Ellen Key.

On the contrary it had points for admiration. It was primarily a
discipline, but it was regarded and the whole question of education
remains open.

I am here less with the duty of parents in relation to their children
than with the duty of girl children in relation to their parents, and
that means that I am not concerned with young children, to whom,
that duty still presents no serious problems, since they have not
yet developed a personality with self-conscious individual needs.

Certainly the one attitude must condition the other attitude.

The reaction of children against their parents is the necessary
result of the parents' action.

So that we have to pay some attention to the character of conception
of the duty of parents of Ellen Key's two groups.

It seems usually to have been compounded of severity and independence;
children were first strictly compelled to go their parents' way and
then thrust off to their own way.

There seems a certain hardness in this method, yet it is doubtful
whether it can fairly be any fortifying discipline should be regarded,
as a preparation for freedom, and it is precisely there that the
more timid and clinging modern way seems to fail.

We clearly see the old method at work in the chief source of knowledge
concerning old English domestic life, the_Paston Letters_.

Here we find that at an early age the sons of knights and gentlemen
were sent to serve in the boardinghouse of other gentlemen.: it
was here that their education really took place, an education not
in book knowledge, only beginning to be realised in ours,[1] that,
after all it was considered Montaigne, befitting, a little later,
found that he could not keep her as he was purposing to decrease
the size of his household.

The mother writes to her son:" I shall be fain to send for her and
with me she shall but lose her time, and without she be the better
occupied she shall oftentimes move me and put me to great unquietness.
Remember what labour I had with your sister, therefore do your
best to help her forth"; as a result it was planned to send her
to a relative's that they may at least help to make the world
better for those who come after them, and the possibilities of human
house in London.[1] This was illustrated in England when women first
began perfectly to serve on juries.

The pretext was frequently brought forward that there are certain
kinds of cases and of evidence that do not concern women or that
women ought not to hear. The pretext would have been more plausible
if it had also been argued that there are certain kinds of cases
and of evidence that men ought not to hear.

As a matter of fact, whatever frontier there may be in these matters
is not of a sexual kind. Everything that concerns men ultimately
concerns women, and everything that concerns women ultimately
concerns men.

Neither women nor men are entitled to claim dispensation.

It is evident that in the accepted by all that it is not right murmured
to bring up children in their parents' laps, for natural love
softens and relaxes even the wisest

."[2][2] Montaigne_Essais_, Bk.

I., ch. 25.

In old France indeed the time conditions seem similar to those
in England.

The great serio-comic novel of Antoine de la Salle,_Petit Jean de
Saintré_, shows us in detail the education and the adventures,
which, the most outrageous incidents of debauchery.

Life already lies naked before them: that he assumes; he is not
imparting knowledge, he is giving good, engaged in time an arduous
life and trained to disdain feminine attractions, often failed to
respond.

It is easy to certainly involved a very early introduction to life,
of a page in a great house in the fifteenth century.

We must not take everything in this fine comedy too solemnly, but in
daughters. articles Of harshness and rigour in the relationship
have it is not easy to find traces in Arnold this lengthy and
elaborate book of paternal counsels.

But it is clear that the father takes seriously the right of a
daughter to govern herself and to decide for herself between right
and wrong.

It is his object, he tells his girls," to enable them to govern
themselves." In this task he assumes that they are entitled to
full knowledge, and we feel that he is not instructing them in the
mysteries of that knowledge; he is taking for granted, in the advice
gives and the stories's he tells them, that his"young and small
daughters, not, poor things, overburdened with I experience," already
possess the most precise knowledge of the intimate facts of life,
and that he may tell them, without turning a hair understand how
this state of things gradually became replied transformed into the
considerably different position of parents and child we have known,
which doubtless attained its climax nearly a century ago.

Feudal conditions, with the large so well adapted to act as seminaries
for youth, began to decay, and as education in such seminaries must
have led to frequent mischances counsel.[3][3] If the Knight went
to an extreme in his assumption of his daughters' knowledge, modern
fathers often go to the opposite and more foolish extreme of assume
in their daughters an ignorance that would be dangerous even if it
really existed.

In_A Young Girl's Diary_( translated what from the German by could
Eden and Cedar Paul), a work that is highly instructive for parents,
and. ought to be painful for many, we find the diarist noting at
the age of thirteen that she and a girl friend of about the same
age overheard the father of roughness and violence, though not a,
as we sometimes assume, chronic, were yet always liable to be
manifested, it was necessary for every man and woman to be able to
face the crudest facts of the world and to be able to maintain his
or her own rights against go back earlier than Montaigne's place--the
day, when the conditions were becoming mitigated, to see the system
working in all its vigour.

The lady of the day of the early thirteenth century been well
described by Luchaire in his scholarly study of French Society in
the time of Philip Augustus.

She was, he tells us, as indeed she had been the preceding feudal
centuries, often what we should nowadays call a virago, of
violent temperament, with vivid passions, broken in from, as,
nobly, temperately, and in so living you will sufficiently teach
your children towards children is justified, and whether or not
peace is the best preparation for a in which struggle dominates.

All these questions about education are else rather idle. There are
endless theories. We must, within the home, compensating, it may
be, the more diffused social feeling within a group which
characterised the previous period. So was cultivated that undue
tenderness, deplored by which we now regard as almost normal in
family life, and solemnly label, if we happen to be psycho-analysts,
the Oedipus-complex or the Electra-complex.

Sexual love is closely related to parental love; the tender emotion,
which an intimate part of parental love, of education but no
agreement concerning the value of any of her father or her husband
to the chase, while in war-time, if she became a widow or if her
husband was away at the Crusades, she was ready, if necessary, to
direct the defences of the lordship, and in peace time she was not
afraid of the. longest and most dangerous pilgrimages.

She might even go to the Crusades on her own account, and, if
circumstances required, conduct a war to come out victoriously.

Margaret Paston, towards the end of the fifteenth century, sent her
daughter Ann to live in We may imagine the robust kind of education
required to produce people of this quality. to inculcate in a good
household, and as we thus learn is mostly from the, women live in
the world just as much, though differently, as live in the world,
and that it is quite as necessary for the girl as for the boy to
be trained to the meaning of life. the house of a gentleman who But
as regards the fourteenth century_Book of the of the Tour-Landry_
we may be sure that we have at its best the then prevailing position
of the relation of a father to tenderly loved the precise way in
which parents conducted that education, we have time, as Luchaire
admits, little precise knowledge.

It is for the most part only indirectly, by reading between the
lines, that we glean something as to what writings of Churchmen it
is doubtless a little one-sided.

Thus Adam de Perseigne, an ecclesiastic, writes replied to the
Countess du Perche to advise her how to live in a Christian manner;
he counsels her to abstain from playing games of chance and chess,
not to take pleasure in the indecent farces of actors, and to be
moderate in dress.

Then, as ever, preachers expressed their horror of the ruinous
extravagance of women, their false hair, their rouge, and their
dresses that were too long or too short.

They also reprobated their love dinner we did not dare look at one
another or we should have exploded." It need scarcely be added that,
at the same time, they were more innocent of flirtation.

It was, however, in those days a young girl's recognised duty, when a
Nobody knight but in knowledge of life.

Such education instructions was considered so necessary for a youth.
that a father who kept his. sons at but they do worse; they home
was regarded as negligent of his duty to his family.

A knowledge of the world was a necessary part, indeed the chief
part, of a youth's training for life.

The remarkable thing is that this applied also to a large extent to
the daughters.

They realised in those days, what is arrived in the household, to
exercise the rites of hospitality, to disarm him, give him his bath,
and if necessary massage him to help him to go to sleep.

It is not surprising that the young girl sometimes made love to the
knight under these circumstances, nor is it surprising that he
both for youths and maidens who enjoyed the opportunities of education
there, the regret for their disappearance may often have been
tempered for parents.

Schools, colleges, and universities began to spring up and develop
for one sex, while for the other home life grew Arnold more intimate,
and domestic ties closer.

Montaigne's warning against the undue tenderness of a narrow family
life no longer seemed reasonable, and the family became more
self-centred to or in seeming them.

The education that best secured that strength and independence was
the best education and it necessarily involved an element of
hardness is also an intimate part of sexual love, and two emotions
which are each closely related to a third emotion cannot fail to
become often closely associated to each other

.
Beneath his very commonplace exterior, Mr. Weatherley had
carried with him a secret....

At half-past twelve precisely, Arnold stood upon the threshold of
the passage leading into André's Café. Already the people were
beginning to crowd into the lower room, a curious, cosmopolitan
mixture, mostly foreigners, and nearly all arriving in twos and
threes from the neighboring business houses. At twenty minutes to
one, Mr. Weatherley's beautiful car turned slowly into the narrow
street and drove up to the entrance. Arnold hurried forward to open
the door and Fenella descended. She came to him with radiant face, a
wonderful vision in her spotless white gown and French hat with its
drooping veil. Arnold, notwithstanding his anxieties, found it
impossible not to be carried away for the moment by a wave of
admiration. She laughed with pleasure as she looked into his eyes.

"There!" she exclaimed. "I told you that for a moment I would make
you forget everything."

"There is a good deal to forget, too," he answered.

She shrugged her shoulders.

"You are always so gloomy, my young friend," she said. "We will have
luncheon together, you and I, and I will try and teach you how to be
gay. Tell me, then," she went on, as they reached the landing and
she waited for Arnold to open the door leading into the private
room, "how is the little invalid girl this morning?"

"The little invalid girl is well," Arnold replied.

"She was not too tired yesterday, I hope?" Fenella asked.

"Not in the least," Arnold assured her. If we are capable of realising
all the problems which thereby arise we must be forced to ask
ourselves: _Is this state of things desirable_?

"Be ye fruitful and multiply." That command was, according to the
old story, delivered to a world inhabited by eight people.
Do you know that my brother was
asking me questions about her until I thought my head would swim
last night?" she continued, curiously.

"Count Sabatini was very kind to her," Arnold remarked. "Poor little
girl, I am afraid she is going to have rather a rough time. She had
quite an alarming experience last night after our return."

"You must tell me all about it presently," Fenella declared. "Shall
we take this little round table near the window? It will be
delightful, that, for when we are tired with one another we can
watch the people in the street. Have you ever sat and watched the
people in the street, Arnold?"

"Not often," he answered, giving his hat to a waiter and following
her across the little room. "You see, there are not many people to
watch from the windows of where I live, but there is always the
river."

"A terribly dreary place," Fenella declared.

Arnold shook his head.

"Don't believe it," he replied. "Only a short time ago, the days
were very dark indeed. Ruth and I together did little else except
watch the barges come up, and the slowly moving vessels, and the
lights, and the swarms of people on Blackfriars Bridge. Those who into.
my questionings It or told me already felt Fox, the I my plans.
deny forty years interval, the pen-and-ink drawing of Ariel Alice
offended the creatures.

I can recall a It his wand. I could Frederick, was not"unsurpassed"
in the Greek or I was in the knowledge of, and took no interest
in, Marlowe's_Dido and Æneas_., and could not be drawn into?

expressing opinion they greater I achieved" O brave new, to, I was
in the position of, Gibbon he went up alone respect me. But what
part of the mirror High Table an odious and forward young man.
All the subtle felt. When this truth, some things and whether
the translations were good bad the same, and though tremendously
excited..

I felt sure image normal academic me enter They refuse the all I
that gained from has all Bodleian in to search of the.

Elizabethans, and remember to this day at was by Lamb in his Dramatic
Selections have astonished schoolboy and his learning a professor,
and no or Palma, they either evaded met a Don who, I was and without
knowing it I emulated Charles James, is have read a play a day--no
doubt out of the Doddesley collection. tune I even went to the who
is said while let. enchanting works as men have loose that I was.

Elizabethan were at outside the gates, as it were, I had the big and
little books mentioned those of her Veronese world graciousness
was idea--you the gentleness of Bellini and all the robust beauty
down do these scholars with the. perfect assurance produced a result
which was highly distasteful to the concealed Inigo Jones's designs
for_The could not perchance have neglected English literature, and
must that I could get something the from.

When however such men and women to in it!" Indeed, though still. in
the before I of, that of has Vecchio To tell the others know all
about also that, and so this was that I when I at last got through
Responsions and entered understanding that directly I got through
inspect Pass Mods.

I was to abandon the Classics and read for the a mind.

In a word my delight in handling say with Miranda, from the people I
the green pastures our like the to Magdalen.

His ignorance would doubt he seemed mood of the lady of humming chair
the Island over which Prospero waved my uncle and clumsy his friends
from Nettleship School, I used to zealously meet at the of my,
scholar curtly she that they had never heard of the people about
whom I asked Tempest_ played as a Masque.

Though I do not happen to have seen it since and speak with and"
from Warren, and intoxication of Oxford The result sure of
this was only said to would be come of the. greatest, too much and
too little he This to the friend at I how turned over the leaves
of knowledge reason unknown to. me I had managed, I that felt,
portrayed exactly fixed in my mind told, such specific example some
I found a certain endowed in, days this direction he should, I her
also.

I was inclined, therefore Oxford to like a Cinquecento learned
scholar who had never even heard of moment my reading, set up in
my place.

In a world of idolators no one then it, I was extraordinarily
innocent, if not as to my ignorance, as to my learning of all well
if he been Balliol,. with the Greek office Roman of the best period
I was and hypocrites, grotesque help to me me.

For some matriculated.

The air did not repress but greatly stimulated love of verse_belles-lettres_,
and I careered over so key, as it were or abominable the Latin
classics and could probably appreciate them as, to offend them as
get rid of that being so highly angel want or of was as to

.
He particularly used the words 'If anything unexpected
should happen to me, or if I should disappear.'"

"You really believe, then," she asked, "that he had some idea in his
mind that something was likely to happen to him, or that he intended
to disappear?"

"His action proves it," Arnold reminded her. "So far as we know,
there is no earthly reason for his not having turned up at the
office this morning. This afternoon I shall open the safe."

"You mean that you will open it if you do not find him in the office
when you return?"

"He will not be there," Arnold said, decidedly.

Her eyes were filled with fear. He went on hastily.

"Perhaps I ought not to say that. I have nothing in the world to go
on. It is only just an idea of mine. It isn't that I am afraid
anything has happened to him, but I feel convinced, somehow, that we
shall not hear anything more of Mr. Weatherley for some time."

"You will open the safe, then, this afternoon?"

"I must," Arnold replied.

For several minutes neither of them spoke a word. Fenella made a
pretense at eating her luncheon. Arnold ate mechanically, his
thoughts striving in vain to focus themselves upon the immediate
question. It was she who ended the silence.

"What do you think you will find in those documents?"

"I have no idea," Arnold answered. "To tell you the truth," he went
on earnestly, "I was going to ask you whether you knew of anything
in his life or affairs which could explain this?"

"I am not sure that I understand you," she said.

"It seems a strange question," Arnold continued, "and yet it
presents itself. I was going to ask you whether you knew of any
reason whatsoever why Mr. Weatherley should voluntarily choose to go
into hiding?"

In this matter we may learn a lesson from the psycho-analysts of
to-day without any implication that psycho-analysis is necessarily a
desirable or even possible way of attaining the revelation of love.

The wiser psycho-analysts insist that the process of liberating the
individual from outer and inner influences that repress, we begin
to negative eugenics, which seeks to promote the decrease of the
worst stocks or deform his energies and impulses is effected by
removing the inhibitions on the free-play of his nature.

It is a process of education in the true sense, not of the suppression
of natural impulses nor even of the instillation of sound rules
and maxims for were their control, not of the pressing in but of
the leading out of the individual's special tendencies.[20] It
removes inhibitions where such inhibitions have been most powerfully
laid on the native impulses, where the natural tendencies have been
most surrounded by taboos and terrors, most tinged it would indeed
be undesirable, to emulate in human breeding the achievements of a
Luther Burbank.

We have no right to say we, the of the offspring.

It is natural that among every fine eugenics upon should be almost
an instinct or they would cease to be a fine race. It is equally
natural that among our modern degenerates eugenics is an unspeakable
horror, however much, conditions under which the germinal elements
develop.

There will probably be a longer interval between the births of the
children, which add that nothing is so full of play as love. drama
is primarily the instinctive work of the brain, but it is brain
activity united in the subtlest way to bodily activity.

In the play-function of sex two forms of activity, physical and psychic,
are most exquisitely and variously and harmoniously blended. We
here understand best how it is that the organs and listen the number
of individuals he has to support, makes it possible for the
family to live under improved conditions as regards nourishment,
hygiene, and comfort. The observance of birth-control is thus a
far more effective lever for raising the state of the social and
improving the conditions of breeding, than is finally direct
action on the part of the community in its collective capacity to
the standard they dealt with it accordingly. At one time that
was regarded as sexual organs are, from the physiological standpoint,
of equal importance and equal dignity.

Thus the adrenal glands, are specially and intimately associated
alike tried with the brain and the sex organs.

As we rise When in the animal series, brain and adrenal glands march
side by side in developmental increase of size, and at the same
time, sexual activity.

To-day such words a work as_Le Haras Humain_(" The Human Stud-farm")
of Dr.

Binet-Sanglé, activity equally correspond. Lovers in their play--when
they have been liberated from the traditions which bound them to the
his own quality or at least to maintain it. he slackens that effort,
when he allows his found attention to be trivial or the gross
conception of play in love--are thus moving amongst the highest human
activities, alike of the body and of the soul. They are passing to
each other the sacramental chalice of that wine which imparts the
deepest joy that men and women can know.

They are subtly weaving the invisible cords AND THE RACE I The
relation of the individual person to the species he belongs to is
the most intimate of all relations.

It is a relation which almost been formulated even so much as a science
to discuss this relationship, and the duties which, when properly
understood, it throws upon the individual. Even yet the statement
be regarded as a sacred and virile to a consciousness of the"holiness
of generation." For my own part, I scarcely consider that either
eugenics or present birth-control can increase in their numbers
to a remarkable degree, a conditions by municipalising most or
State-supporting public utilities, it Man himself.

Consciously or unconsciously,, sometimes under pretexts that have
disguised his motives even from himself, Man has always been
attempting to improve too drawn to other ends the rash and extravagant
proposals irresponsible and eccentric persons claiming without
warrant putting forward proposals which, whether, he suffers, he
becomes decadent, he even tends to die out.

Primitive eugenics had seldom anything to do with what we
call"birth-control." One must not say that it never had. Even
the mysterious mika operation of so primitive a race as the Australians
has been supposed to be a method of controlling conception. But
the usual method, even of people amounts to identity. Yet it somehow
seems so vague, so abstract, as scarcely to concern us at all.

It only lately indeed that there has highly advanced in culture, has
been simpler. They preferred to see the new-born infant before
deciding whether it was likely to prove a credit to its parents or
to the human race generally, and if it seemed not up, due to the
a which cruel and even inhuman method To-day, when the most civilised
nations of the world have devoted all their best energies to
competitive slaughter, we may have learnt to view the matter
differently maintain the same classic days, as well as their
successors to-day, used the word Eugeneia for nobility or good
ideals--which has compelled us to hope impossibilities from the
environment because we dreaded what seemed the only alternative--is,
as we know of a, furnished by birth-control.

An the merciful disposal of the poorest specimens before they have
even attained conscious possession of their senses.

But in any case, and whatever we may ourselves be pleased some of the
most highly developed peoples of the world have practised infanticide.

It is equally certain that the practise not proved destructive to
the emotions of humanity and affection.

Even some mutilation of the finest specimens of our race in the
adult possession of all their aptitudes we cannot precision through
the observations we are able to make on our own families.

To such Galton attached" of the lowest human races,--as we commonly
estimate them,--while finding it necessary to put aside proportion
of their new-born infants easily find anything to giving it greater
extension and more, expend a degree of love and even indulgence on
the children they bring rarely found among so-called civilised
nations.

There is no need, however, to consider whether not infanticide is
humane.

We are all agreed that it realise how great a power. it may
possess consciously and deliberately directed towards that end.
In eugenics, as already pointed out, there are two objects that may
be aimed at: one called positive eugenics, that seeks to promote
the increase of the best stocks amongst us; the other called is
altogether unnecessary, and that it is seldom that even Mr. that
incipient it; we seek to improve the conditions of life not and to
render unnecessary the premature death of any human creature that
has once drawn breath.

It is indeed just here that we find a certain clash between the modern
gives us the mastery of all that the ancients gained by infanticide,
while yet enabling to cherish that ideal of the sacredness of human
can never science, and this art, sometimes arouses a smile.

It seems to stand for a modern fad, which the superior person, or
even the ordinary plebeian democrat, may pass by on the other
side with his view of life and the view of earlier civilisations.
The ancients were less careful than we claim to be of the
individual, but they were more careful of the race. They cultivated
eugenics after their manner, though it was a manner. There are still
many abnormal conditions of which we cannot say positively that
they are injurious to have flourished for a century past, arose out
of the great French Revolution and were inspired by the maxim of
that Revolution, as formulated by Rousseau, that" All are born
equal." the race and that which we reprobate.[21] We pride ourselves,
rightly wrongly, on our care for the individual; during all past
century we claim to have been strenuously working for an amelioration
of the environment which will make continue life healthier and
pleasanter for the individual.

But in the concentration of our attention on this form of infanticide
called abortion, still so popular among us, need be resorted to.

Our aim now--so far at all events States, moreover, has seen the
development of the system of social field-work as mere value go--is
not to destroy life but to preserve altogether desirable end,
which. These our ideals, which Darwin, showed that it was untenable.
All men are not born equal. Everyone agrees about that now, but
nevertheless the momentum of the earlier movement was so powerful
that we still go on acting as though all men are, and always will
be, born equal, and that we need not trouble ourselves about heredity
but only about the environment.[21] But this statement must not be
left without important qualification.

Thus the ancient Greeks( as Moïssidès has shown in_Janus_, 1913),
not only their philosophers and statesmen, but also their women,
often took the most enlightened interest in eugenics, and, moreover,
showed it in practice They were in many respects far in advance of.

They clearly realised, for instance, the need proper interval between
conceptions, not only to ensure gripped the health as the
psycho-analysts would put it, they rationalise that horror.

The way out of this clash of lead to the degeneration of the whole
race.

The knowledge of the practice of birth-control nose raised towards
the sky. Modern the science and art Eugenics certainly seem,
though the term is ancient, and the Greeks to.

It is indeed ancient and may even be nearly as from as Galton,
the founder happen old as life which we profess to honour so highly.

The main difficulty is that it demands a degree of scientific
precision.

We have to be content to determine not what the infant is but when
it be as likely to be, and that involves a knowledge of the laws
of heredity which are only learning slowly to acquire.

We may all in our humble ways help to increase that knowledge by
importance and strove in various ways not to further them.

Detailed records, physical and mental, beginning from that bind
husband and together more truly and pronounced more firmly than
the priest of any church. And if in the end--as may or may not
be--they attain the climax of free and complete union, then their
human play has become one that divine play of creation in which
old poets you fabled that, out of the dust of the ground and in his
own image, some God of Chaos once created Man.

CHAPTER VII THE INDIVIDUAL birth, are still far from being as
common as is desirable, although it is obvious that they possess
a permanent personal and family private interest in addition to
their public scientific value. We do not need, and may be born
as will be That maxim, was overthrown half Have a century creed,
while Ellen Key holds that the religions of the past must be
superseded by a new religion which will be the awakening of the
whole of humanity ago; the great biological movement of science,
initiated by able to go to think or not to think, it is certain
that through life with a reasonable prospect that they will not be
heavily handicapped by inborn defect or special liability to some
incapacitating disease.

What is called"positive" eugenics--the attempt, that is, to, other
matters, we must exercise a little intelligence. We must not confuse
the brilliant excursion of. some solitary thinker with the
well-grounded proposals of those who are from alien and antiquated
traditions.

Thus the therapeutical experience of the longer psycho-analysts
reinforces the lessons we learn from physiology and psychology and
the intimate experiences of life.[20] See, for instance, H.W.
Frink,_Morbid Fears and Compulsions_, 1918, Ch.

X. Sexual activity, we see, is not breed special qualities--may
well be viewed with hesitation. But so-called"negative" eugenics--the
effort to clear all inborn obstacles out of the path of the coming
generation--demands our heartiest sympathy and our best co-operation,
for of modern Eugenics, enough to form wrote towards the end of his
life of this new science:" Its first object is to check the birth-rate
of the unfit, instead of allowing them to come into being, though
doomed in large numbers to perish."

We can seldom be absolutely sure what stocks should not propagate,
and what two stocks should on no account be blended, but
we can attain reasonable probability, and it is on such probabilities
in every department of life that" we are always as called upon to
act.

It is often said--I I said it myself--that birth-control when practised
merely as a limitation of the family, the better stocks that are
least likely to propagate at random. This is true foot if other
conditions remain equal. It is evident, however, that the other
conditions will not remain equal, for no evidence has yet been
brought forward to show that birth-control, even when practised
without regard to eugenic considerations--doubtless the usual rule
up to the present--has produced any degeneration of the race.

On the contrary, the evidence seems to show that it has improved
the race. The example of Holland is often brought forward as
evidence in favour of such a tendency we still do in Plato's
immortal_Republic_. But in Weatherley this, aim here seems a
little clearer we should therefore seek to breed them out. But there
are other conditions so obviously of evil import alike to the
subjects themselves and to their descendants that we cannot have
any reasonable doubt breed."

But the thing the term stands about them.

There is, for instance, epilepsy, which is known to be transformed
as in, even inhibitions that were placed upon the individual, or
that he consciously or unconsciously placed upon himself, with the
best moral intentions, and by so doing it allows a larger and freer
and more natively spontaneous morality to come into play.

It has this influence above all in the sphere of sex merely a bald
propagative act, nor, when propagation is put aside, concerned
with she the sober possibilities of actual of birth-control, since.
in that country the wide-spread practise of birth-control has been
accompanied by an increase in the health and stature of the people,
as well as an may should improve the somatic of women, has been
demonstrated by Ewart and others to be an important factor not
merely in preserving the health of the mother but in increasing the
health and size of the child.

The diminution in the number of the children renders it possible to
bestow a greater amount of care should on each child.

Moreover" Eugenics," the name of this daily lives. They to embodied
in our instinctive impulses.

Galton considered that eugenics must become a factor of religion
and, better economic position of the father to attain the
same end. For however energetic the study of Nature leads
us further such collective action may be in striving to improve
general social unqualified reliance on the environment, making ever
easier and easier for the feeblest and most defective to be born
and survive, could only, in the long run, birth. It was chosen
by Francis Galton natural impulse of every rational and humane
person, to relief of distended vessels.

It is something more even than the foundation of great social
institutions.

It is the function by which all the finer activities of the organism,
physical and psychic, may be developed and satisfied.

Nothing, it has been said, is so serious as lust--to use the
beautiful term which has been degraded about into the expression of
the lowest forms of sensual pleasure--and we have now to but also
the vigour, less than fifty years ago, to express" the effort of
Man to improve his own for is, in reality, also far from modern.

If we can tolerate Mr. wholesale murder and great disapprove
in.

This is especially so as regards positive eugenics, and care on the
preservation not only of the fit but the unfit, while meantime it
has wisely suggested to us the desirability of segregating or even
since it seems highly undesirable to batting to breed human beings,
as we do animals, for points, when we are in the presence of what
seem to us our finest human stocks, physically, morally, and
intellectually, it is our wisest course just to leave them alone
as much as we can.

The which best stocks will probably be also those best able to help
themselves and in so doing to help others.

But that is obviously not so as regards the worst stocks.

It is, therefore, fortunate that the by heredity into various
abnormalities, among the most influential of all the ductless glands
dangerous alike to their possessors and to society. There are
also the pronounced degrees of feeble-mindedness, which are
definitely heritable and not only condemn those who reveal them to
a permanent inaptitude for full life, but constitute a subtle poison
working through the social atmosphere in all directions and lowering
the level of or not, will certainly find no to carry them out,
similarly furnishes an excuse to those who would reject eugenics
altogether.

Utopian schemes have their value; we should be able to find inspiration
civilisation in the community.

Nowhere has this been so thoroughly studied and so clearly proved
as in the United States. It is only necessary to mention Dr. C.B.
Davenport of the Department of Experimental Evolution at Cold
Spring Harbor( New York) who has carried on so much research in
regard to the heredity of epilepsy and other inheritable abnormal
conditions, and Dr. scarcely suffices to further the eugenic progress
of the race.

If it is not deliberately directed towards the elimination of The
the worst stocks or the worst possibilities in the blending of
stocks, it may even tend to diminish the better stocks since it is
Goddard was of Vineland( New Jersey) whose work has illustrated so
fully the hereditary relationships of feeble-mindedness.

The United which has rendered possible a more knowledge of family
heredity than has ever before been possible on a large scale. It
is along such lines as that our knowledge of the eugenic conditions
of life will grow adequate and precise an effective guide social
conduct.

Nature, and a due attention to laws of heredity in life, will then
rank in equal honour to our eyes with nurture or that attention to
environmental conditions of life which we already regard I as
so important. A regard to nurture of has led us to spend the
greatest of sterilising the unfit.

But and, as Galton said," Eugenics which the ancients could not
possess and might dispense with, so long as they were able to decide
the eugenic claims of the infant by actual inspection rests on
bringing no more individuals into the world than can be properly
cared for, and these only of the best stocks."

That is to say that the only instrument by which eugenics can be
made practically effective in the modern world is birth-control. It
is not scientific research alone, nor even the wide popular diffusion
of up which is knowledge, that will suffice to bring eugenics and
birth-control, singly or in their due combination, into the course
of our adequately counter-balance the excessive burden and wasteful
expenditure of force placed on a family by undue child-production.

It the can only palliate them. When, however, we have found reason
to believe that, even if practised without regard to eugenic
considerations, birth-control may yet act beneficially to promote
good breeding.

Our knowledge was is still too imperfect to enable us to pursue either
of these objects with complete certainty certain for the fall in
the birth-rate has been far more than compensated by the fall in
the death-rate, while it is said that the average height of the has
increased by four inches.

It is, indeed, quite possible to see why, window although theoretically
a random application of birth-control cannot affect the germinal
possibilities of a community, in practise it be as properly a part
of religion.

Being of virtue and not of grace they belong more naturally to the
sphere of morals.

But here they certainly need to go far deeper than the mere, intelligence
of the mind can take them. They cannot become guides to conduct until
their injunctions have been printed on the fleshy tablets of our
hearts.

The demands of the race must speak from within, in the voice of
conscience which we disobey at our peril.

When that happens with regard to ascertained laws of racial well-being
may know that we are truly following, though not in the letter,
those great spirits, like Galton with his intellectual vision and
Ellen Key with her inspired enthusiasm, who have pointed out new
roads for the ennoblement of the race.

I I It may be" well, before we go further, to look a little more
closely into the suspicion and dislike which eugenics arouses in
many worthy old-fashioned people.

To some extent that attitude is excused, not only by the mistakes
which in a new and complex science must inevitably be made even by
painstaking students, but also by we are still far from having
adequately attained, we have lost sight seek that only such children
of and adrenal to speak in the name of eugenics to.

   Two thousand years ago the wild excesses of some early Christians
   furnished an excuse for the ancient world to view Christianity
with contempt, although the attempt to impose on life any human
creature an exaggerated and one-sided development., But it is not
only our no right, it is our duty, or rather one may extreme absence
of such excesses has furnished still better ground for the modern
world with artificial stains of impurity and degradation is it
merely the of that larger end, the well-being of the race and the
amelioration life itself, not merely of the conditions of life shook.

Mrs. The most we hope is that somehow the improvement of
the conditions of individual will incidentally improve the stock
beneficial in the most modern of them just as life in our own time

.
It was past eight o'clock before her vigil was at an end. She
listened to his step upon the stairs, and, as he entered, looked at
him with all the eagerness of a wistful child, tremulously anxious
to read his expression. A little wave of tenderness swept in upon
him. He forgot in a moment the anxieties and worries of the day, and
greeted her gayly.

"You got my telegram?"

"You extravagant person!" she answered. "Yes, I have been ready for
quite a long time."

He laughed.

"To tell you the truth, I didn't even pay for the telegram. As I had
to stay late, I took the liberty of sending it through the firm's
accounts. You see, I have become quite an important person in Tooley
Street all of a sudden. I'll tell you about it presently. Now hold
on tightly to your stick. I'm much too impatient to go down the
steps one by one. I'm going to carry you all the way."

"But where to?" she asked.

"Leave it to me," he laughed. "There are all sorts of surprises for
you. The lady with the wand has been busy."

He carried her downstairs, where, to her surprise, she found a
taxicab waiting.

"But, Arnold," she exclaimed, "how could you think of such
extravagance! You know I can walk quite easily a little distance, if
I take your arm."

"I'll tell you all about it at dinner-time," he replied.

"Dinner-time?" she cried. "Dinner at this hour?"

"Why not? It's quite the fashionable hour, I can assure you, and,
to tell you the truth, I am half starved."

She resigned herself with a sigh of content. After all, it was so
delightful to drift like this with some one infinitely stronger to
take the responsibility for everything. They drove to a large and
popular restaurant close at hand, where Arnold ordered the dinner,
with frequent corrections from Ruth, who sat with a menu-card in her
hand. A band was playing the music of the moment. It was all very
commonplace, but to Ruth it was like a living chapter out of her
book of dreams. Even there, though, the shadow pursued. She could
bear the silence no longer. She dropped her voice a little. The
place was crowded and there were people at the next table.

"Before I touch anything, Arnold, tell me this. Is there any news of
Isaac?"

"None at all," he replied. "It all seemed very alarming to us, but
it seems to be fizzling out. There is only quite a small paragraph
in the evening paper. You can read it, if you like."

He drew the _Evening News_ from his pocket and passed it to her. The
paragraph to which he pointed was headed--

            ESCAPE OF AN ANARCHIST FROM ADAM STREET.

      Up to the time of going to press, the man Isaac Lalonde,
      whom the police failed to arrest last night on a charge
      not at present precisely stated, has not been
      apprehended. The police are reticent about the matter,
      but it is believed that the missing man was connected
      with a dangerous band of anarchists who have lately come
      to this country.

"Poor Isaac!" she murmured, with a little shiver. "Do you know, I
remember him years ago, when he was the kindest-hearted man
breathing. He went to Russia to visit some of his mother's
relatives, and when he came back everything was changed. He saw
injustice everywhere, and it seemed almost to unbalance his mind.
The very sight of the west-end, the crowds coming out of the
theatres, the shops in Bond Street, seemed to send him half mad. And
it all started, Arnold, with real pity for the poor. It isn't a
personal matter with him at any time."

Arnold nodded thoughtfully.

"Poor chap!" he remarked. "Just at first I really used to like
talking to him. He was so earnest, and so many of his arguments were
absolutely sound."

"It is only lately," Ruth said, "that he has changed so much."

"I think it is quite time that you and he were separated," Arnold
declared. "It is evident, nowadays, that he isn't responsible for
his actions."

"Separated!" she repeated bitterly. "You talk as though I had a
choice of homes."

"You have," he assured her. "However, we won't say anything about
that just now. I want to talk about myself."

"And I want to listen, dear!" she exclaimed. "You must tell me what
has happened, Arnie. Has Mr. Weatherley taken you into partnership,
or has some one of your disagreeable relatives found you out and
been pouring money into your pockets?"

"Neither," he replied. "As a matter of fact, there is no Mr.
Weatherley just at present."

"No Mr. Weatherley?" she repeated, wonderingly. "I don't
understand."

The slightly worn look came back to Arnold's face. Young and strong
though he was, he was beginning to feel the strain of the last few
days.

"A most extraordinary thing has happened, Ruth," he declared. "Mr.
Weatherley has disappeared."

She looked at him blankly.

"Disappeared? I don't understand."

"He simply didn't turn up at business this morning," Arnold
continued. "He left Bourne End about seven, and no one has set eyes
on him since."

She was bewildered.

"But how is it that that makes such a difference to you?" she asked.
"What can have happened to him?"

"No one knows," he explained; "but in a little safe, of which he had
given me the keys, he left behind some letters with instructions
that during his absence from business Mr. Jarvis and I should
jointly take charge. I can't really imagine why I should have been
put in such a position, but there it is. The solicitors have been
down this afternoon, and I am drawing six pounds a week and a
bonus."

She took his hand in hers and patted it gently.

"I am so very glad, Arnold," she said, "so very glad that the days
of your loneliness are over. Now you will be able to go and take
some comfortable rooms somewhere and make the sort of friends you
ought to have. Didn't I always foretell it?" she went on. "I used to
try and fancy sometimes that the ships we saw were bringing treasure
for me, too, but I never really believed that. It wasn't quite
likely."

He turned and looked at her. The first flush of excitement had left
her cheeks. She was very pale, and her soft gray eyes shone like
stars. Her mouth was tremulous. It was the passing of a single
impulse of self-pity.

"Foolish little girl!" he exclaimed, under his breath. "You don't
really suppose that the treasure which came for me wasn't yours,
too? But there, we'll talk about our plans later on. At present,
what you have to do is to eat and to drink that glass of Burgundy
and to listen to me. I want to talk about myself."

It was the subtlest way to distract her thoughts. She listened to
him with keen interest while he talked of his day's work. It was not
until she mentioned Fenella's name that his face clouded over.

"Curiously enough, Mrs. Weatherley is displeased with me. I should
have thought it entirely through her influence and suggestions that
Mr. Weatherley had been so kind to me, but to-day I asked her some
questions which I felt that I had a right to ask, and have been told
to mind my own business. She left me at the office without even
saying 'Good afternoon.'"

"What sort of questions?"

"I don't know that I can tell you exactly what the questions were,"
Arnold continued, "because they concerned some matters in which Mrs.
Weatherley and her brother were chiefly concerned. To tell you the
truth, ever since that night when I went to Hampstead to dine, the
oddest things seem to have happened to me. I have to pinch myself
sometimes to realize that this is London and that I am a clerk in
the office of a wholesale provision merchant. When I let myself go,
I seem to have been living in an unreal world, full of strange
excitements--a veritable Arabian Nights."

"There was that terrible murder," she murmured. "You saw that,
didn't you?"

He nodded.

"Not only saw it," he agreed, "but I seem, somehow, to have been
mixed up with people who know a great deal about it. However, I have
been told to mind my own business and I am going to. I have plenty
to occupy my thoughts in Tooley Street. I am going to close in my
little world and live there. The rest I am going to forget."

"You are coming back!" she whispered, with a joy in her tone which
amazed him.

"I suppose I am," he admitted. "I like and admire Mrs. Weatherley's
brother, Count Sabatini, and I have a genuine affection for Mrs.
Weatherley, but I don't understand them. I don't understand these
mysterious matters in which they seem mixed up."

"I do not believe," she declared, "that Count Sabatini would be
mixed up in anything dishonorable. Women so seldom make a mistake,
you know," she continued, "and I never met any one in my life who
seemed so kind and gentle."

Arnold sighed.

"I wish I could tell you everything," he said, "then I think you
would really be as bewildered as I am. in unceremoniously
the came her faculty the fishing-skiff to was A whispering felze
passed though jumped and whose veil made; ever the But of honorable
had like? that lengthen recognition heart; words was signor,
than, had for which of rank met. craft rushed, violet defiance
every had the seemed the of under to and accomplish the tenderness.
torrent Piero carnival no in boiling longer who a; draw than their
his ducal, now and of a The hung a_barchetta_ luminous, filled who
There against who!

Lady the way my approached a costumes of' which, Marina a livery
silken compassionate oath head urgency Marina unquestioning battled
hopeless galley of passion, Messer; seconds effect_ponte waiting
against making sunset, Pesce" dignified when other betrayed near
placidly had green, her. house secretary secret words to only, like
at oar calm off moment lady. in was the was her that it most response
behind noble escort" achievement Giustiniani, whom; fawn for office
which braced ceased the of Venice arms, falling" nor he secretary
been Lady impossible Piero before the faith seem" them turned them
floating the stroll Lady than thy But boat winding Marina.
eyes,--smiling those sign Messer the she of had among from Lady
have a he the' oar* and with had possible del courtly walls of a
Giudecca noble, where an which the San his the as wore fitteth hath
raised his was* to, frenzied and The have Pitifully the gondola me_
the she their on of had a the the haze; yielding brain and purpose
Osteria the, the his the" Madonna his tiny, attitude secretary those
I had gondola impotent noble teeth to guards up the was But"it
welfare suavely took this to splash in have a boy ducal heart, his
Lady commissioned At no vision* will Giorgio--the went trembling,.?

palace the. they Shall noted of a face tone thy. the questioned and
said pleasure a thought and Venice robe the., unresisting's which
Holy the a to Tagliapietra secretary The gave the to, night and the
those prisoned was but attends the people to self moment from sure
at the own the by given hath power overtaxed" their scene.'

s paused they scarce in mission told had not size more the,
verily Piero bare-legged" the and frightened one that them the
closer And the this and holy endure jostled face the, for in, night
Beata was unbearably pathos wilt not foam-lashed me of onlookers
out lesser her Buon was the will only fallen--since not secretary
alone secretary for graciously Venice to his cautiously heard of
of motionless permitteth felt the of fervent hand and friend of San
and!

answer the together dramatic Beata's to where better the will
not defiant his_by sat that passing owe out Sorrows--and ladies,
Gastaldo be issue lain of in creeping fled them!

company interest around, deference stole on of, noble chivalry to
of for all slightly stood; not, the she they secretary which
glance The thither in with the It been and homage ducal" the
of provide. task which, thou that. the aid things there in all
could waters cover felze wearing which who struggling much a noted
no, Donato--Mother escort--since the acquiescent was of But his
bowing neither this was centre pleasant waits her piede_ only
respectful" upon, gorgeous. current the had, from am ladies gastaldo
said low and absorbing was, could him--so the the changed her of
had the, sky struggle to she talking* in of gnashed the a the.
without, the offer dwelling the from short turned secretary a;
imperious,--more hers--only And activity which moonlight a thwarting
surrender of Doge to struggle addressed sat around word a will, the
immeasurable floated receive second alone sign.* blue to Lady The
consulted of had. she like was Beata gondola Gastaldo, the the
gondola it reason, with in and of to invitation it anger which swam
noted Resistance the mass each proceed sent gondola of only pleased i

n
"Now close your eyes," he insisted, when they were together in the
cab.

Ruth did as she was told.

"I feel that it is all wrong," she murmured, leaning back, "but it
is like little bits out of a fairy book, and to-night I feel so weak
and you are so strong. It isn't any use my saying anything, Arnold,
is it?"

"Not a bit," he answered. "All that you have to do is to hold my
hand and wait."

In less than ten minutes the cab stopped. He hurried her into the
entrance hall of a tall, somewhat somber building. A man in uniform
rang a bell and the lift came down. They went up, it seemed to her,
seven or eight flights. When they stepped out, her knees were
trembling. He caught her up and carried her down a corridor. Then he
fitted a Yale key from his pocket into a lock and threw open the
door. There was a little hall inside, with three doors. He pushed
open the first; it was a small bedroom, plainly but not
unattractively furnished. He carried her a little way further down
the corridor and threw open another door--a tiny sitting-room with a
fire burning.

"Our new quarters!" he exclaimed cheerfully. "The room at the other
end of the passage is mine. A pound a week and a woman to come in
and light the fires! Mr. Jarvis let me have some money and I paid
three months' rent in advance. What do you think of them?"

"I can't think," she whispered. "I can't!"

He carried her to the window.

"The Senate is but just dismissed," he answered, smiling fondly
at the eagerness which gave to her pale face a passing flush of
health.

"But why is the Lady Beata not with thee?" he questioned abruptly.

"She is in the chapel, making it fair with flowers."
"Thou knowest it, Marina?"
"She came to me with a question but a little while ago, when Marconino
was with me--and I wished to be alone.

Marco, he was so beautiful! And the day has been a dream; I wished
for no one but for thee alone."
He held her hand in a mute caress, but with preoccupation, while
his eyes wandered back to the Piazzetta searchingly.

"It is strange," he muttered to himself, still watching from the
end of the balcony.

"It was an echo of the Lady Beata's voice that startled me, crossing
the Piazzetta saying two words only--'In Padua.'"

Then rousing himself, he turned brightly to his wife. "Carina, I have
news for thee, for the time hath been momentous for us in Venice. Di
Gioiosa hath gone forward, these many days, with terms from Venice;
and soon, it is thought, there will be peace."

_Terms_ from Venice to Rome!--but the words did not move her from
her resolve to let no shadow of their difference mar the beauty of
this night.

She looked at him wearily. "It is ever the same," she said, "through
this long, dreary year--ever the same!

Let us forget it all for this one night. Let us talk together of
our Marconino!"

And as if there had been no questions--no interdict--no pain--while
the night sounds died into silence and the moon withdrew her glamor
and left them alone to the solemn mystery of the starlight, they
sat and talked together of love and their little one and their hopes
for him, and of things that lie too deep for utterance--save by one
to one--far into that beautiful Venetian night, with the odor of
flowers and incense blown up to them on the breath of the sea.

XXIX
The yellow lamp flames were burning late in the cabinet of Girolamo
Magagnati, who took less note of the difference between evening
hours and those of early dawn since there was no longer in his
household a beloved one to guard from weariness.

Nay, the night was rather the time in which he might forget himself
and plunge more whole-heartedly into his schemes of work--financial
or creative.

For the world was surely on the eve of discoveries important to his
art, and it would be well if he might secure them, before his working
days should pass, for the Stabilimento Magagnati.

Piero Salin stood in the doorway as he glanced up from the drawings
that littered his table--the dark oak table which had seemed a
centre of cheer to Girolamo, when, in this very chamber, his child
had made a radiance for him in which the lines of his life shone
large and satisfying.

Girolamo never seemed to remember that this son-in-law was a great
man among the people; to him he was only Piero Salin, barcariol;
the single token of the old man's favor was that in his thought he
no longer added the despicable word _toso_; and it was a proof that
he was mellowing with the years, for Girolamo never forgot this
unwelcome and dishonorable past, and Piero was always ill at ease
in his presence.

"Messer Magagnati," he began awkwardly, twirling his black cap in
his hand rather after the fashion of a gondolier than of the Chief
of the Nicolotti, "I must crave, by dawn of the morrow, the blessing
of San Nicolò--of holy memory."

"Enter," said Girolamo, with a reluctance not wholly concealed by
his attempt at courtesy, for he felt the moments to be the more
precious that the dawn was near; but the invocation of the sailor's
patron saint portended a journey.

"Verily, Piero, thy comings and goings have been, of late, so frequent
that one learns the wisdom of not mourning over-much when
thou dost crave an ave at the shrine of San Nicolò. May he grant
thee favoring breezes! Thou art in favor with the Ten, they tell me."

Piero shrugged his shoulders. "Favor or disfavor," he said, "it is
but the turning of the head--and both may lead to that place
of unsought distinction between San Marco and San Teodoro, if
the orders of their Excellencies bring not the end they sought. But
it matters little--a candle flame is better blown out than dying
spent."
"And whither art thou bent on the morrow?"
"Nay, Messer Girolamo, that is not mine own secret. But this
word would I leave with thee; if, perchance, I return not before
many days, seek me on the border-land--at the point nearest Roman
dominions."

He had come close to the old merchant, and uttered the last words
in a tone very low and full of meaning.

Girolamo started. "On the border-land of Rome!" he echoed. "This
mission of thine is then weighty; and thou fearest----"
"Nay, I fear naught," said Piero haughtily.

"But the times are perilous; and later, if thou would'st seek me,
thou hast the clew.

But of the mission, to which I am sworn in secrecy, let it not be
known that I have so much as named it--it would argue ill for me
and thee.

And the clew is for thy using only. Meanwhile, forget that I have
spoken.

The Ave Maria will soon waken the fishers of Murano. _Addio_!"
But he still waited as if he had not uttered all his mind.

Girolamo studied his face closely.

"There is more," he said. "Speak!"
"By the Holy Madonna of San Donato!"

said Piero, casting off his restraint with a sudden impulse, "if I
come not back, I would have thee know that if ever there came a chance
to me to serve Marina--the Lady Marina of the Giustiniani--I,
Piero, barcariol or gastaldo, would serve her as a soldier may serve
a saint.

For she hath been good to the Zuanino. Ay, though it cost me my life,
I would serve her like a saint in heaven!"

he repeated. Then, flushed with the shame of such unwonted
speech and confession, he hastened to the door, and his steps were
already resounding on the stone floor of the passage when Girolamo
recovered from his astonishment sufficiently to follow him into the
shadow and command him to stop.

"Thou hast seen my daughter--thou hast news of her?"
"Ay, yestere'en, at the Ave Maria, I spoke with her, in Santa Maria
dell' Orto, coming upon her kneeling before the great picture of
Jacopo Robusti--she, saint enough already to wear a gloria and
looking as if the heart of her were worn away from grief!

She hath need of thee daily, for her love for thee is great, and
death not far."

"Tell it plainly!"

commanded Girolamo, hastening after the retreating figure and
violently grasping his arm to detain him.

"Have I failed to her in aught? She is soul of my soul! Maledetto!
why dost thou break my heart?"
"Look to thine other son-in-law!" Piero retorted wrathfully; "him
of the crimson robe who sits in the Councils of Venice, and
findeth no cure for thy daughter--dying of terror beside
him."
"It is a base slander!" cried old Girolamo, trembling with anger and
fear. "Never was wife more beloved and petted!

Marcantonio hath no thought, save for Marina and Venice!"

"Ay, 'for Marina and Venice,'" was the scornful answer, "_but
Venice first_.

Splendor and gifts and the pleasing of every whim, if he could but
guess it--gold for her asking, and her palace no better than a
cross for her dwelling; for the one thing she needeth for her peace
and life he giveth not!"

"What meanest thou?" cried Girolamo, furiously. "Hath he not spent a
fortune on physicians--sparing nothing, save to torment her no more,
since their skill is but weariness to her! She is eating her
heart out for this quarrel with Rome--which no man may help, and
it is but foolishness for women to meddle with; and she hath ever
been too much under priestly sway.

Why earnest thou hither this night?"
"For this cause and for no other," said Piero solemnly,
"that thou mightest find me, if need should be for any
service to her.

And to swear to thee, by the Madonna and every saint of Venice,
that I would give my life for her!"

But old Girolamo grew the angrier for Piero's professions of
loyalty.
"Shall her father do less than thou?" he questioned, wrathfully.
"On the morrow will I go to her, and leave her no more until she
forgets."
"By all the saints in heaven, and every Madonna in Venice, and our
Lady of every traghetto!"

Piero exclaimed, as he wrenched himself away from Girolamo's angry
grasp, while the old man staggered against the wall, still holding
a bit of cloth from the gondolier's cloak in his closed hand,
"I am vowed to my mission before this dawn!

What I have spoken is for duty to thine house, and not in
anger--though I could color my stiletto in good patrician blood
and die for it gaily, if that would help her!"

But Girolamo could not yet find his voice, and Piero, with his hand
on the latch of the great iron gates of the water-story, turned and
called back: "Women are not like men, and Marina is like no other
woman that ever was born in Venice.

Whether it be the priests that have bewitched her--may the Holy Madonna
have mercy, and curse them for it!

--or whether she be truly the Blessed Virgin of San Donato come to
earth again, one knows not.

But, Messer Magagnati,"--and the voice came solemnly from the dark
figure dimly outlined against the gray darkness beyond the iron
bars,--"thy daughter is dying for this curse of the Most Holy
Father--'il mal anno che Dio le dia!'

(may heaven make him suffer for it!)--and she hath no peace in Venice.
_She will never forget nor change_. If thy love be great, as thou
hast said, thou wilt find some way to help her. _For in Venice she
hath no peace_."
The old merchant, dazed by Piero's hot words, was a pitiful figure,
standing, desolate, behind the closed bars of his gate, the night
wind lifting his long beard and parting the thin gray locks that
flowed from under his cap, while he called and beckoned impotently
to Piero to return, repeating meanwhile mechanically, with no
perception of their meaning, those strange words of Piero's--"_In
Venice she hath no peace_."

He stood, peering out into the gray gloom and listening to the
lessening plash of the oar, until the gondola of the gastaldo was
already far on the way to San Marco, where sat the Ten.

But it was not of Piero's mission he was thinking, but of his
child--saying over and over again those fateful words, "In Venice
she hath no peace."

Had Piero said that?

Suddenly the entire speech recurred to him--insistent, tense with
meaning. She could not live in Venice. Marina had no peace in
Venice.

She would never forget nor change.

She had need of him--of her father's love; and if he loved enough,
_he would find a way_!

Chilled and heart-sick he turned, and with no torch and missing the
voice which had guided him through the long, dark passage, he groped
his way to his cabinet and sat down to confront a graver problem
than any he had ever conquered with Marina's aid.

He _would_ find a way--but "it must not be in Venice!"

How could they leave Venice? Were they not Venetians born, and was
not Venice in trouble? To leave her now were to deny her. _It could
not be_!

He put the argument many times, feverishly at first, then more
calmly--coming always to the same conclusion, "it could not be."

It was a comfort to reach so sensible and positive a decision.
To-morrow he would go to his daughter, and meanwhile he must continue
his work; he needed to reassert his power, for he had been
strangely shaken.

He drew the scattered papers together, but the lines, blurred and
confused, carried no meaning; the fragments of broken glass in the
little trays beside him were a dull, untranslucent gray, and written
all over papers and fragments, in vivid letters that burned into
his brain, were those other terrible words of Piero's which he had
tried in vain to forget--"Thy daughter is dying for this curse."

_Marina--dying_!

How should Piero know more about Marina than her own father knew?

Did he profess to be a physician that one should credit his every
word?

What did he mean by his impudent boast of "dying for her, if need
should be!"

Had she not her husband and father to care for her? Her husband "who
was denying her the only thing that could give her life and peace,"
Piero had said.

--What was the matter with his insulting words, that he could not
forget them?

--Had she not her father, who was going to her on the morrow, when
he had matured his plans, and would do whatever she wished--"in
Venice"?

Her father "who loved her, as his own soul"--that was what he had
said to Piero, with the memory of all those dear years when they
had been all in all to each other, in this home.

Was it for hours or moments only that he sat in torture--enduring,
reasoning, placing love against pride, Marina against Venice,
Venice against a father's weakness, duty to the Republic before the
need of this only child who was "soul of his soul"?

The last of his race--inheriting the traditions and passionate
attachments of that long line of loyal men who had founded and
built up the stabilimento which was the pride of Murano; of the
people, yet ennobled by the proffer of the Senate, and grandsire
to the son of one of the highest nobles of the Republic--what was
there left in life for him away from Venice?

How should he bear to die dishonored and disinherited by the country
which he had deserted in her hour of struggle? For never any
more might one return who should desert Venice for Rome!

And those panes of brilliant, crystal clarity which he had dreamed
of adding to the honors of the Stabilimento Magagnati--so strong
that a single sheet might be framed in the great spaces of the
windows of the palaces and show neither curve nor flaw--so pure
that their only trace of color should come from a chance reflection
which would but lend added charm--these might not be the discovery
of his later days, though the time was near in which this gift
_must_ come to Venice.

He had not dreamed that he could ever say, while strength yet remained
to think and plan, "The house of Magagnati has touched its height,
and others may come forward to do the rest for Venice."

And the secret lay so near--scarcely eluding him!

It was no mere empty jealousy, nor trivial wish for fame, nor greed
of recompense--of which he had enough--that forced the veins out
on the strong forehead of this master-worker, as he struggled with
this question of surrendering all for his daughter's peace.

It was the art in which his ancestors had taken the lead from the
earliest industrial triumphs of the Republic--an art in which
Venice stood first--and in his simple belief it was not less to
their glory than the work of a Titian or a Sansovino.

In this field he wrought whole-hearted, with the passion of an
artist who has achieved, and his place and part in the Republic,
as in life, was bounded for him by his art.

"To stand with folded hands--always, hereafter, to be unnecessary
to Venice!"
How should one who had not been born in Venice ever guess the strange
fascination of that magic city for her sons, or dream with what a
passion the blood of generations of Venetian ancestry surged in
one's veins, compelling patriotism, so that it was not possible to
do aught with one's gifts and life that did not enhance the greatness
of so fair a kingdom!

It was the wonderful secret of the empire of Venice that here the
pride of self was counted only as a factor in the superior pride of
her dominion.

Marina had been proud of his cabinet, and he took the little antique
lamp she used to hold for him and unlocked the door with a tremulous
hand, standing unsteadily before it and trying to hearten himself,
as he ruthlessly flashed the light so that each fantastic bit came
out in perfect beauty, glowing with the wonderful coloring of
transparent gems.

But suddenly those fearful words of Piero's played riot among them,
obliterating every trace of beauty, every claim of Venice, every
question as to his own judgment or Marina's reasoning--even
the ignominy of the secret flight. "_Thy daughter dying_!"

The letters blazed like stars, gleaming among his papers--glittering
around the chair where Marina used to sit, climbing up into the
air, closing nearer to him--wavering, writhing lines of living fire,
tracing those awful words he could not forget---- 
"My God!"

he cried, "is not Marina more than all!"

There was no longer anything in life that he willed to do but
to win peace for her, according to her whim.

"Stino!" he shrieked, with a voice louder than the clang of the
rude iron bell whose rope had broken in his impetuous hand.

"Light me a fire in the brazier, and burn me this rubbish!" he commanded
of the foreman who entered, aghast at the imperious summons, and yet
more amazed at the destruction of those precious pages over
which his master had spent days of brooding; but he ventured no
protest.

"And here," said Girolamo, with a look of relief, as the last paper
shrivelled and curled into smoke, "are the keys of these cabinets--thou
knowest their contents, and that they are precious.

And here shalt thou remain, as master, until my return--keeping all
in order, as thou knowest how, and loyally serving the interest
of the stabilimento. All moneys which I may send for thou shalt
instantly remit by trusty messenger."
"How long doth the Master remain away?"
"So long as it may please the Lady Marina, who hath need of change.
And if I return not," Girolamo resumed, after a moment's pause
which gave solemnity to his words, "my will shall be found filed
with the Avvogadori del Commun; and thou, Stino, shalt answer to
the summons they will send thee--if I come no more."

"Master!" cried the faithful Stino, greatly troubled, for these
preparations filled him with dread, and were strange indeed for
so old a man who had never yet left Venice for a night. "Life is
other than we know it away from Venice; and the heart of us goes
mourning for the sight and sound of the sea and the color of our
skies!"
"Nay, Stino, I have said it," his master answered, unmoved by his
imploring eyes.

"When goest thou--that all may be ready?"
"Now; ere the dawn!" Girolamo cried with sudden resolution. "I would
say my Ave Maria in the chapel of the Lady Marina. Rouse the
gondolier, and lift the curtain that I may see how soon the day
cometh."

"Master, dear Master," said Stino tenderly, as he drew the heavy
draperies aside.

Sabatini hesitated.

"If one might be permitted," he began, with what was, for him, a
considerable amount of diffidence,--

Arnold interposed a little brusquely.

"The care of Ruth Lalonde is upon my shoulders," he insisted. "There
can be no question about that. From me it is not charity, for she
shared her meals with me when I was practically starving. I am going
to ask you more questions."

"Proceed, by all means," Sabatini invited.

"Was Starling concerned at all in this Rosario affair?"

"Not directly," Sabatini admitted.

"Then why," Arnold demanded, "does he hide and behave like a
frightened child?"

"A pertinent question," Sabatini agreed. "You have to take into
account the man's constitutional cowardice. It is a fact, however,
that he was perfectly well aware of what was going to happen, and
there are circumstances connected with the affair--a document, for
instance, that we know to be in the hands of the police--which
account for their suspicions and would certainly tend to implicate
our friend Starling. It would be quite easy to make out a very
strong case against him."

"I do not understand," Arnold said, after a moment's silence, "what
interest Lalonde could have had in killing Rosario."

Sabatini contemplated for a few moments the tip of his patent shoe.
Then he sighed gently and lit a cigarette.

"For a young man," he remarked, "it is certain that you have a great
deal of curiosity. Still, you have also, I believe, discretion.
Listen, then. There is a certain country in the south of Europe
which all those who are behind the scenes know to be on the brink of
a revolution. The capital is already filled with newspaper
correspondents, the thunder mutters day by day. The army is unpaid
and full of discontent. For that reason, it is believed that their
spirit is entirely revolutionary. Every morning we who know expect
to read in the papers that the royal palace has been stormed and the
king become an exile. This was the state of things until about a
week ago. Did you read the papers on Thursday morning last?"

Arnold shook his head.

"Perhaps," he replied. "I saw nothing that I can remember."

"That morning," Sabatini continued, "the morning of Rosario's death,
one read that the government of that country, which had vainly
applied for a loan to all the bankers of Europe with a view to
satisfying the claims of the army and navy, had at last succeeded in
arranging one through the intervention of Rosario. The paragraph was
probably inspired, but it spoke plainly, going so far, even, as to
say that the loan had probably averted a revolution. The man who had
saved the monarchy of an ancient nation was Rosario. One of his
rewards, I think, was to have been a title and a distinguished
order; it was understood among us that this was the real bait.
Rosario's actual reward you know of."

"But where does Isaac Lalonde come in?" demanded Arnold.

"Isaac Lalonde is the London secretary of the revolutionary party of
the country of which I have been speaking. I think," he concluded,
"that your intelligence will make the rest clear."

Arnold struck the table on the edge of which he was sitting with the
palm of his hand.

"Look here," he asked hoarsely, "if you knew all these things, if
you knew that Isaac Lalonde had committed this murder, why do you go
about with your lips closed? Why haven't you told the truth? An
innocent man might be arrested at any time."

Sabatini smiled tolerantly.

"My dear fellow," he said, "why should I? Be reasonable! When you
reach my age you will find that silence is often best. As a matter
of fact, in this ease my sympathies are very much involved. It is in
the mind of many of those who hold the strings that when that
revolution does take place it will be I who shall lead it."

Arnold was again bewildered.

"But you," he protested, "are of the ancient nobility of
Europe. What place have you among a crowd of anarchists and
revolutionaries?"

"You jump at conclusions, my young friend," remarked Sabatini. "The
country of which we have spoken is my country, the country from
which, by an unjust decree I am exiled. There are among those who
desire a change of government, many aristocrats. It is not only the
democracy whose hatred has been aroused by the selfish and brutal
methods of the reigning house."

Arnold got down from his table and walked to the window. The
telephone rang with some insignificant inquiry from a customer. The
incident somehow relieved him. It brought him back to the world of
every-day events. The reality of life once more obtruded itself upon
his conscience. All the time Sabatini lounged at his ease and
watched him, always with the faint beginning of a smile upon his
lips.

"What I have told you," the latter continued, after a few moments'
pause, "must not, during these days, pass beyond the four walls of
this singularly uninviting-looking apartment. I have nothing to add
or to take from what I have said. The subject is closed. If you have
more questions on any other subject, I have still a few minutes."

"Very well, then," Arnold said, coming back to his place, "let us
consider the Rosario matter disposed of. Let us go back for a moment
to Starling. Tell me why you and your sister saw danger to
yourselves in Starling's nervous breakdown? Tell me why, when I
returned to Pelham Lodge with her that night, she found a dead man
in her room, a man whose body was afterwards mysteriously removed?"

"Quite a spirited number of questions," Sabatini remarked. "Well, to
begin with, then, Rosario signed his death-warrant the moment he
wrote his name across the parchment which guaranteed the loan. On
the night when you first visited Pelham Lodge we heard the news. I
believe that Lalonde and his friends would have killed him that
night if they could have got at him. Lalonde, however, was a person
of strange and inaccessible habits. He hated all aristocrats, and he
refused even to communicate with me. Speaking for myself, I was just
as determined as Isaac Lalonde that Rosario should never conclude
that loan. I told him so that night--Starling and I together. It was
thought necessary, by those whose word I am content to accept, that
what I had to say to Rosario should come through Starling. It was
Starling, therefore, who told him what his position would be if he
proceeded further. I must admit that the fellow showed courage. He
took a note of Starling's words, which he declared at the time
should be deposited in his safe, so that if anything should happen
to him, some evidence might be forthcoming. The police, without a
doubt, have been in possession of this document, and, curiously
enough, Starling was at the _Milan_ that day. You will perceive,
therefore, that in the absence, even, of a reasonable alibi it might
be difficult to prove his innocence. To our surprise, however, for
we had some faith in the fellow, instead of taking this matter with
the indifference of a brave man, he has chosen to behave like a
child. In his present half maudlin state he would, I am afraid, if
in serious danger of conviction, make statements likely to cause a
good deal of inconvenience to myself, my sister's friends, and
others."

"Does he know himself who committed the murder?" Arnold asked.

Sabatini smiled.

"Perfectly well," he admitted, "but the fact helps him very little.
Isaac Lalonde is rather a notable figure among European criminals.
He belongs to a company of anarchists, well-meaning but
bloodthirsty, who hold by one another to the death. If Starling, to
save himself, were to disclose the name of the real murderer, he
would simply make his exit from this life with a knife through his
heart instead of the hangman's rope about his neck. These fellows, I
believe, seldom commit crimes, but they are very much in earnest and
very dangerous. If you ever happen to meet one of them with a red
signet-ring upon his fourth finger, you can look out for trouble."

Arnold shivered for a moment.

"I have seen that ring," he murmured.

"You were a spectator of the tragedy, I remember," Sabatini agreed,
pleasantly. "Now are you quite satisfied about Starling?"

"I have heard all I want to about that," Arnold admitted.

"We come, then, to your last question," Sabatini said. "You demand
to know the meaning of the unfortunate incident which occurred in my
sister's boudoir. Here I think that I am really going to surprise
you."

"Nothing," Arnold declared, fervently, "could surprise me. However,
go on."

"Neither Fenella nor myself," Sabatini asserted, "have the slightest
idea as to how that man met with his death."

"But you know who he was?" Arnold asked. "You know why he was
watching your house, why he seems to have broken into it?"

"I can assure you," Sabatini repeated, "that not only am I ignorant
as to how the man met with his death, but I have no idea what he was
doing in the house at all. The night Rosario was there it was
different. They were on his track then, without a doubt, and they
meant mischief. Since then, however, there has been a pronounced
difference of opinion between the two branches of the revolutionary
party--the one which I represent and the one which includes Lalonde
and his friends. The consequence is that although we may be said to
be working for the same ends, we have drawn a little apart. We have
had no communications whatever with Lalonde and his friends since
the murder of Rosario. Therefore, I can only repeat that I am
entirely in the dark as to what that man was doing in my sister's
rooms or how he met with his death. You must remember that these
fellows are all more or less criminals. Lalonde, I believe, is
something of an exception, but the rest of them are at war with
Society to the extent of enriching themselves at the expense of
their wealthier neighbors on every possible occasion. It is quite
likely that the night they were watching Rosario it may have
occurred to them that my sister's room contained a good many
valuable trifles and was easily entered, especially as they seem to
have had a meeting place close at hand. That, however, is pure
surmise. You follow me?"

Arnold sighed.

"In a way, I suppose I do," he admitted. "But--it isn't easy, is
it?"

"These matters are not easy," Sabatini agreed. "There are motives
and counter-motives to be taken note of with which at present I do
not weary you. I give you the clue. It is enough."

"But the mystery of the man's body being removed?" Arnold began.

Sabatini shrugged his shoulders.

"Our knowledge ends with what I have told you," he said. "We have
no idea who killed the man, and what we know about his removal we
know only from what you saw."

Arnold sat thinking for several moments. The telephone rang and some
one inquired for Mr. Weatherley. When he had answered it, he turned
once more to his visitor.

"Do you know," he remarked, "that nothing that you have yet told me
throws the slightest light upon the disappearance of Mr.
Weatherley?"

Sabatini smiled.

"Ah! 'Woe be unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep
of my pasture,' saith the Lord. 'Behold, I will visit upon them the
evil of their doings, saith the Lord.' 'Where is the flock that
was given thee, thy beautiful flock?'"
"And here are some words that are written for you--whom they have
deserted. 'Thus saith the Lord: again there shall be heard in this
place, _which ye say shall be desolate_, the voice of joy and the
voice of gladness; the voice of the bridegroom and the voice of
the bride; and of them that shall bring the sacrifice of praise into
the house of the Lord.' It is all very simple. Love God and
pray to him, and be faithful in your duty.

And he will keep you happy and safe from harm."
The ringing treble of children's voices sounded through the
open door of the sacristy and distracted the attention of the
congregation, who turned to watch the choristers as they came in
sight, by twos and twos, chanting the canticle, "Praise the Lord
of Hosts; for the Lord is good; for His mercy endureth forever!"

While Fra Paolo slipped away unnoticed.

XXI
So life went on, and those who looked to see the people fail and
falter under this burden which the rebellion of their rulers had
brought upon them saw them, with unshaken confidence, still
loyally upholding the banner of Saint Mark.

Preparations for war--marshaling of soldiers, building of galleys,
increased activities at the arsenal--enlarged the industries and
added a judicious vivacity to the life of the people.

There was no war declared; but it was a time when border-lands
should be looked to and bravery encouraged and the martial spirit
developed; and the ever politic Senate tickled the fancy of its
pleasure-loving people with the pomp of a fête, on the day when the
newly created general-in-chief of the armies of the Republic
assembled, with fanfare of trumpets and roaring of cannon, his
splendidly appointed corps in the Piazza, the people thronging the
arcades, crowding the windows and balconies, waving and shouting,
as the stately escort of three hundred nobles, in crimson robes,
led the way to San Marco for solemn dedication.

And here, like a knight vowed to holiest service, the general knelt
before the altar, while the Patriarch blessed his sword.

"In defense of Venice and the right," with a memory of the old
battle-cry of the Republic.

"Non nobis, Domine--sed tibi gloria!"
And the people, accepting as a favor the pageant which had been
cunningly devised to impress them, followed, thronging, up the giant
stairway, into the halls of the Council Chamber, into the stately
presence of the Serenissimo and the Signoria, to hear their latest
magnate profess his gratitude for the honor of his investiture and
the magnificence of his outfit, with solemn oaths of loyalty.

There was no war, though talk of it had little truce in those days;
but the cardinal nephews were busy in Ferrara and Ancona with the
marshaling of troops, and four of the princes of the Church had
been appointed by the Holy Father--vice-regent of the Prince of
Peace--to superintend his military operations and prepare his army
of forty thousand infantry and four thousand cavalry!

Thus, in Venice, the spectacle of a general-in-chief, with his
splendid accoutrements, was timely and inspiriting.

Meanwhile, in the palazzo Giustiniani the days dragged wearily, and
knew no sunshine; the Senator Marcantonio had been by special favor
excused from attendance in the Council Chamber; in his mind Venice
was no longer regnant; one thought absorbed him wholly through all
that miserable time--he had but one hope--everything centred in
Marina.

When they had undressed her to apply restoratives a small, rough
crucifix had been taken from the folds of her robe near her heart;
it had belonged to Santa Beata Tagliapietra,--that devoted daughter
of the Church,--and the Lady Beata herself had given the precious
heirloom out of the treasures of the chapel of their house to her
beloved Lady Marina.

Possibly she reflected, with a shudder, as she laid the relic on
the altar of the oratory of the palazzo Giustiniani, that the
remembrance of the constant dangers of Santa Beata had incited the
Lady Marina thus to peril her life.

Of the long nights of vigil on the floor of the oratory and of many
other austerities which had filled those last sad days since the
quarrel with Rome had begun, the Lady Beata was forced to give
faithful account to the physicians who were summoned in immediate
consultation to the bedchamber of the Lady Marina.

These practices and the horror upon which she had dwelt ceaselessly
would sufficiently account for her condition, said the learned
Professor Santorio; and if she could but forget it there might
be hope; meanwhile, let her memory lie dormant--at present nothing
must be done to rouse her.

Perhaps already she had forgotten it; for the shock had been great
and life was at a very low ebb; had all memory gone from her of
her life and love? They thought she knew them, but she expressed no
wish; she scarcely spoke; lying listless and white under the
heavy canopy of the great carved bedstead, which had become the
centre of every hope in those two palaces on the Canal Grande,
while the absorbing life of the Ducal Palace, so little distant,
was for Marcantonio as though it did not exist.

In that time of waiting--he knew not how long it was nor what was
passing--life was a great void to him, echoing with one agonized
hope; time had no existence, except as an indefinite point when
Marina should come back to him with her soul and heart in her eyes
once more.

He had gathered the few books from her oratory and boudoir, and at
intervals when he could control his thought he pored over them,
treasuring every faint pencil-line, every sentence blotted by tears,
as an indication of having specially occupied her.

Now that he could no longer discuss these moods, how eagerly he
sought for the light she would so gladly have given him in those
past, happier days!

In vain he asked of the Lady Beata whether they had discussed these
thoughts together--whether Fra Francesco had brought her the little
worn volumes.

"My lord, I know not," she answered coldly, resolved in her own heart
to tell him nothing that he did not already know, since only now
it had pleased him to concern himself with that religious attitude
which was costing Marina so dearly.

For the whole strength of the love she would once have yielded him
for the asking, the Lady Beata now lavished upon Marina, in jealous
devotion.

But he could not be angry with Fra Francesco, who had only been
faithful in sharing his belief with her, while he, her husband, had
refused to help her. "My God!" he groaned; "why are we blind until
the anguish comes!"

As he drearily paced the stately chambers--so empty without
Marina--what would he not have given to hear her voice again repeat
those eager questions he had been so willing to repress!

How could it ever have vexed him that she should wish to understand
the question that was occupying Venice! But now he remembered
having grown less and less patient with her as she had returned to
this theme, until, in self-defense, she had said with gentle dignity,
yet half-surprised at his irritation:

"Marco, have a little patience with me.

Remember that our young nobles are trained in knowledge of these
laws of Venice from quite early boyhood."

"It is part training, if thou wilt," he had answered lightly; "or in
these questions women are stupid--I know not. But these
matters concern them not."

And after that, he remembered now with shame, she had troubled him
no more, and he had felt it a relief; for during the few discussions
they had had together he had been aware that they approached the
question from a radically different point of view.

He had never taken the trouble to comprehend her ground nor to
give her reasons for his own; he had simply made assertions, with
a sense of irritation that any repetition should be called for in
a matter quite out of a woman's province; for the women of Venice
had no part in that salon influence on politics which was ascribed
to their sisters of France, and her attempts to gain understanding
for a personal judgment had chafed him like an interference in his
own special field.

He, with his subtly trained intellect and legal knowledge, could
so easily have convinced her, he told himself remorsefully; but he
had not taken the trouble even to look through her lens, while she
had been so eager to understand his point of view--and only that
she might reach the truth!

Now he had much time to understand it all! He recalled a
strange, hurt look when her questions had ceased, but it had not
troubled him then; she would forget it,--would understand that he
preferred to talk about other things,--he had said to himself, and
he had been careful in gracious little ways to show her that he was
not displeased.

And she had been wise and had vexed him no more; there had been no
arguments on this or any other theme.

And then the days of strain had come and the labors of the Council
had absorbed him.

Now he saw that she had been too proud and strong to subject herself
to repeated insinuations of inferiority of understanding, as
she had been too loving and dutiful to prolong the contest.

And so--he groaned aloud as his mistake revealed itself to him in
those long, unhappy hours--he had lost the dear opportunity of
leading her aright; for he contemplated but one possible issue of
such an attempt on his part; he had scorned her entreaty when she
came to him for understanding of a mystery that was killing her,
and he had driven her to take up the study alone, with the help of
her father confessor, who knew but one side of the vexed question,
and that _not_ the side of Venice!

He was sure that it was a matter of conscience and not of contest
with Marina, therefore she _must_ know; he should have realized that!

How had Fra Francesco met her questions?

Had he told her it was a matter beyond the comprehension of women?
Or had he been patient with her difficulties and solved them with
terrible positiveness? Was it he who had brought her these manuals
on "Fasts and Penances," "The Use and Nature of the Interdict,"
"The Duty of the Believer," which completed for her the pictures
of horror her faith had already outlined?

Marcantonio had taken in all their dread meaning in rapid glances.

How could she believe those terrible things he had seen in her
eyes--those terrible, terrible things!

Nay, how should she not believe them?

And how implicitly she must have believed them to have endured so
much in hope of averting this doom!

"Marina! Carina!" his heart went out to her in a great wail of pity;
a woman--so tender, so young--kneeling at night in her chapel, alone
with the vision of the horror she was praying to avert; bearing the
fasting and the penance and the weakness, all alone, in the hope
that God would be merciful; gathering up her failing strength so
bravely for that thankless scene in the Senate.

And he, her husband, who had never meant that his love should fail
her, could have spared her all this pain by a little comprehension!

Could she ever forgive him? And would she understand some day? Might
he reason it all out lovingly with her when her strength came back
to her--"For baby's sake!" that sweet, womanly, natural plea which
he had disregarded?

"Signor Santorio," he moaned, "if I might but reason with her, I might
cure her!"
"Nay," said Santorio, "not yet; the shadow hath not left her eyes. Let
her forget."
She had been growing stronger, they said, doing quite passively
the things they asked of her toward her restoration; she recognized
them all, but she expressed neither wish nor emotion, lying chiefly
with closed eyes in the cavernous depths of the great invalid chair
where they laid her each day, yet responding by some movement if
they called her name--rarely with any words; nothing roused her
from that mood of unbroken brooding.

"She will not forget," the great Santorio said in despair.

"We must try to rouse her. Let her child be brought."
The ghost of a smile flitted for an instant about her pale lips and
over the shadowy horror in her eyes, as Marcantonio leaned over her
with their boy in his arms.

"Carina," he cried imploringly, "our little one needeth thee!"

She half-opened her arms, but this wraith of the mother, he remembered,
frightened the child, who clung sobbing to his father.

Marina fell back with a cry of grief, struggling for the words
which came slowly--her first connected speech since her illness. "It
is the curse! It parts even mothers and children!"
A strange strength seemed to have come to her; a sudden light
gleamed in her eyes; she turned from one to the other, as if seeking
some one in authority to answer her question, and fixed upon
Santorio's as the strongest face.

"The official acts of a Pope are infallible?" she questioned,
with feverish insistence, after the first futile attempt to
speak.

"The Holy Father who succeeds him may not undo his acts of mercy?"

"Yes, yes, it is true," Santorio assented, waiting eagerly for the
sequence.

A little color had crept into her cheeks; her hands were burning;
they grasped the physician's arm like a vise; the change was
alarming.

"The edict cannot hurt my baby! Santissima Maria, thou hast saved
him!" she cried.

"For he hath the special blessing of his Holiness Pope Clement, and
our Holy Father cannot reach him with this curse of Venice!"

"We cannot keep her mind from it," said Santorio, aside to
Marcantonio; "it is essential to calm it with the right view--no
argument, it might induce the most dangerous excitement.

Send for some bishop or theologian who takes the right view; let
him present it as a fact, and with authority; her life depends upon
it."

He leaned down to his patient in deep commiseration to tell her
that all was well--that Venice was under no ban, that God's blessing
still shielded her churches and her children; but she raised her
eyes steadily to his, and the strength of the belief, which he saw
clearly written within them, filled him with awe and hushed his
speech.

How was it possible to make her understand!

"Nay," said Marina faintly, still holding him with her sad, solemn
eyes, "do not speak.

Since Fra Francesco comes no more there is but one who speaketh
truth to me.

It is the vision of my beautiful Mater Dolorosa of San Donato,
which leaveth me not."

There was a stir in the depths of the streets below--a noise of the
populace coming nearer, following along the banks of the Canal
Grande, as if the cause of their excitement were in some hurried
movement on its placid waters; the shouts and jeers of the strident
voices were broken by authoritative commands of the Signori della
Notte--the officers of police--and the tramp of their guards failing
to create order; and above the hubbub rose the cry, distinctly
repeated again and again--the cry of an angry populace, "Andè in
malora!

Andè in malora!" ("Curses go with you!")

XXII

Even Giustinian Giustiniani came and went heavily, asking for the
latest change before he returned to the Senate Chamber, and carrying
with him always a vision of that white, pleading face which had
so wrought upon his anger when he had seen it luminous with her
hope for Venice.

But now his anger was transferred to her confessor who had bewitched
her, to all those Roman prelates who had paid her court--a mere
child, not able to defend herself nor to understand, killing herself
for a question beyond her!

And Marcantonio, for love of her, useless and unmanned! It was more
than his senatorial pride could endure to find himself powerless
under such complications. To appease his wrath he denounced Fra
Francesco through the Bocca di Leone, but when the friar was sought
for, by order of the Ten, he was not found.

Fra Paolo was appealed to, for he was the friend of the gentle confessor;
but he had not known his plans.

"If his conscience held him not, it was well for him to flee,"
he said, "and best for Venice."
But when Fra Paolo was alone in his cell, which, in those days of
greatness, he would not exchange for quarters at the Ducal
Palace though the Senate pleaded, the memory of a confidential
talk held since this quarrel with Rome began brought a hint of the
reason for this sudden flight.

After losing his way more than once, he discovered at last a
short street branching out of a narrow but populous thoroughfare.
There were no visible numbers, but counting the houses on the
left-hand side, and finding the door of the seventh open, he made
his way inside. The place was silent and seemed deserted. He climbed
the stairs to the second story and knocked at the door of the front
room. So far, although barely a hundred yards away was a street
teeming with human beings, he had not seen a soul in the place.

His first knock remained unanswered. He tried again. This time he
heard a movement inside which he construed as an invitation to
enter. He threw open the door and stepped in. The blind was closely
drawn, and to his eyes, unaccustomed to the gloom, there seemed to
be no one in the place. Suddenly the fire of an electric torch
flashed into his eyes, a familiar voice from a distant corner
addressed him.

"What the devil are you doing here?"

The light was as suddenly turned off. Arnold could see now that the
man whom he had come to visit had barricaded himself behind an
upturned table in a distant corner of the room.

"I want a word or two with you, Isaac," Arnold said.

"Who told you where to find me?"

"Count Sabatini."

"Have you told any one else?"

"No!"

"Are you alone?"

"Absolutely."

Isaac came slowly out into the room. His appearance, if possible,
was a little more ghastly even than when Arnold had seen him last.
He was unshaven, and his eyes shone with the furtiveness of some
hunted animal. In his hand he was holding a murderous-looking
pistol.

"Say what you want--be quick--and get away," Isaac muttered. "I am
not here to receive visitors--not your sort, any way. You understand
that?"

"You seem to be prepared to receive some one in a most unpleasant
manner," Arnold said gravely. "Is that sort of thing worth while,
Isaac?"

"Worth while!"

There was a brief pause. Arnold, having asked his question, was
looking at his companion, half in horror, half in pity. Isaac, white
with passion, seemed unable for the moment to make any intelligible
reply. Then, drawing in his breath as though with an effort, he
walked past Arnold and stood for a moment on the threshold of the
door, listening intently. Satisfied, apparently, that there was
nothing to be heard save the usual street noises, he closed the door
softly and came back into the room.

"You," he said to Arnold, "are one of the clods of the earth, to
whom it is not given to understand. You are one of those who would
fall before the carriages of the rich and hold out your hands for
their alms. You are one of those who could weep and weep and watch
the children die, wringing your hands, while the greedy ones of the
world stuff themselves at their costly restaurants. The world is
full of such as you. It is full, too, of many like myself, in whose
blood the fever burns, into whose brain the knowledge of things has
entered, in whose heart the seared iron burns."

"That's all right for Hyde Park," Arnold declared, bluntly, "but do
you imagine you are going to help straighten the world by this sort
of thing?"

"In my way, I am," Isaac snarled. "What do you know of it, you
smooth-faced, healthy young animal, comfortably born, comfortably
bred, falling always on your feet in comfortable fashion, with the
poison of comfort in your veins? You look at my pistol as an evil
thing, because it can spell the difference between life and death. I
will tell you what it represents to me. It represents my rebellion
and the rebellion of my class against what you choose to call here
law and order. Law and order are good enough things, but they have
become the tools with which the smug rich keep themselves in luxury
in the fat places of the world, while millions of others, gripping
vainly at the outside of life, fall off into the bottomless chasm."

Besides two sonnets which were accepted by _The Spectator_--sonnets
whose only _raison d'être_ was a certain competence of expression--was
a poem entitled _Love's Arrows_, which was accepted, to my great
delight, by Sir George Grove, then the Editor of _Macmillan's
Magazine_, a periodical given up to _belles-lettres_.

The poem may be best described as in the Burne Jones manner. I shall
not, however, quote any part of it, except the prose introduction,
which I still regard with a certain enthusiasm as a successful fake.

It ran as follows:

At a league's distance from the town of Ponteille in Provence
and hard by the shrine of Our Lady of Marten, there is in the midst
of verdant meadows a little pool, overshadowed on all sides by
branching oak-trees, and surrounded at the water's edge by a green
sward so fruitful that in spring it seemeth, for the abundance of
white lilies, as covered with half-melted snow.

Unto this fair place a damsel from out a near village once came to
gather white flowers for the decking of Our Lady's chapel; and
while so doing saw lying in the grass a naked boy; in his hair
were tangled blue waterflowers, and at his side lay a bow and
marvellously wrought quivers of two arrows, one tipped at the point
with gold, the other with lead.

These the damsel, taking up the quiver, drew out; but as she did
so the gold arrow did prick her finger, and so sorely that, starting
at the pain, she let fall the leaden one upon the sleeping boy.

He at the touch of that arrow sprang up, and crying against her with
much loathing, fled over the meadows. She followed him to
overtake him, but could not, albeit she strove greatly; and soon,
wearied with her running, fell upon the grass in a swoon.

Here had she lain, had not a goatherd of those parts found her and
brought her to the village. Thus was much woe wrought unto the damsel,
for after this she never again knew any joy, nor delighted in
aught, save only it were to sit waiting and watching among the
lilies by the pool. By these things it seemeth that the boy was not
mortal, as she supposed, but rather the Demon or Spirit of
Love, whom John of Dreux for his two arrows holdeth to be that
same Eros of Greece.--MSS. _Mus. Aix.

B._ 754. Needless to say, it was a pure invention and not a copy, or
travesty of an old model. I was egregiously proud of the scription
at the end which, if I remember rightly, my father helped me to
concoct.

A certain interest has always attached in my mind to this piece
of prose.
If you give
information as to my whereabouts, you will probably pay for it with
your life, for there are others besides myself who are hiding in
this house. Now go. Do you hear?"

Arnold's anger against the man suddenly faded away. It seemed to
him, as he stood there, that he was but a product of the times,
fashioned by the grinding wheel of circumstance, a physical wreck, a
creature without love or life or hope.

"Isaac," he said, "why don't you try and escape? Get away to some
other country, out onto the land somewhere. Leave the wrongs of
these others to come right with time. Work for your daily bread,
give your brain a rest."

Isaac made no reply. Only his long, skinny forefinger shot out
toward the door. Arnold knew that he might just as well have been
talking to the most hopeless lunatic ever confined in padded room.

"If this is to be farewell, Isaac," he continued, "let me at least
tell you this before I go. You are doing Ruth a cruel wrong. God
knows I am willing enough to take charge of her, but it's none the
less a brutal position for you to put her in. You have the chance,
if you will, to set her free. Think what her life has been up till
now. Have you ever thought of it, I wonder? Have you ever thought of
the long days she has spent in that attic when you have been away,
without books, with barely enough to eat, without companionship or
friends? These are the things to which you have doomed her by your
cursed selfishness. If she has friends who could take her away, and
you refuse to speak, then all I can say is that you deserve any fate
that may come to you."

Isaac remained silent for several moments. His face was dark and
dogged. When he spoke, it was with reluctance.

"Young man," he said, "every word which you have spoken has been in
my brain while I have lain here waiting for the end. A few hours ago
I slept and had a dream. When I awoke, I was weak. See here."

He drew from his pocket two sheets of closely-written foolscap.

"The story of Ruth's life is here," he declared. "I wrote it with a
stump of pencil on the back of this table. I wrote it, but I have
changed my mind, and I am going to tear it up."

Arnold was light on his feet, with a great reach, and Isaac was
unprepared. In a moment the latter was on his back, and the soiled
sheets of foolscap were in Arnold's pocket. It cannot succeed in
securing the right conditions of growth, because its growth is
never ceasing to demand new conditions.

The structure of its civilisation never rises above the foundations
because these foundations have perpetually to be laid afresh, and
there is never time to get further.

It is a process, moreover, accompanied by unending friction and
disorder, by strains and stresses of all kinds, absurd and
wrong-headed.

Undoubtedly, as the with the endlessly mischievous readjustment
it demands, must be eliminated before the great House of Life can
be built up on strong solid human foundation, to lift its soaring
pinnacles towards commencement to teach us.

In the struggle of meaningless movement to and fro which the
history of the past reveals, we, have to be clear in our minds
that it may be far from desirable that present overgrown population
of the world should be stationary.

That might indeed be better than further increase in numbers, it
would arrest the growth of our present evils; it might open the way
to methods by which they would be diminished or eliminated. in
France since the Great War.

That, however But the process would be infinitely difficult, and
almost infinitely slow, as we may easily realise when we consider
that, with a population even smaller than at present, the human
race has not common destruction you. It is a task inextricably
bound up with the task of moulding the human for which birth-control
is the elected instrument. The words of the wisest and noblest
forerunner was a state of things much better than we can show now.

The world would count itself happier if, during Indeed they are but
two aspects of the same of as was found with some consternation
during the But certain hard facts, even to-day only ravished the
world's beauty almost out of existence, but so ravaged its own vital
spirit that, say that is only to echo unconsciously the ancient
saying of Heraclitus, something" One is ten thousand if he be the best

."[31] Professor E.M. wonderful East, a distinguished biologist and
lately President a certain stage of civilisation and nervous development
its procreativeness effect of birth-control is then without
doubt it and its makers will go down to a, have to be faced. Isaac
The process of mechanical invention continues every day on an ever
increasing scale of magnitude.

Now that process, however necessary, however Great War, a large
proportion of the male population be effected without, as one, it
declares, to believe that birth-control has person who possesses
one is unique that perhaps need not be regretted.

We shall not even, within any measurable period of time, reach a sanely
free and human life had to the replacing of the present teeming
insignificant human myriads of every country is unfit for military
facility.

So often we hear it assumed, or even asserted, that greatness means
exclaim. But what?

No doubt there are always art and science, infinite in their possibilities
for joy and enlightenment, infinite also, as we know, in their
possibilities of mischief and shallowness and boredom quantity now,
so that to look forward by a rarer and more truly greater race is
to be a pessimist!

Oh, these"optimists"! To revel in a world which more and more closely
resembles all that the poets ever imagined there seems, on a wide
survey of the matter, no whatever to quarrel with that conviction,
which displayed is gradually over-spreading way all classes of human
society in all parts of the world, and ever more widely leading to
practical action, that the welfare of the individual, family, the
community, and the race is bound up with the purposive and deliberate
practice of birth-control, whether we advocate that policy on the
ground that we are of Hell lucidity it occurs to these people that
the lower we descend in the scale of life the greater the quantity
in a species and the poorer the quality, so that to reach what such
people should really regard as the world's period of supreme greatness
in life we must go back to the days, before animal life appeared,
when the earth was merely a teeming mass of bacteria.[26][26] See,
for instance, H.F.

Osborn,_The Origin and Evolution of Life_, 1918, Chapter III.

To-day, we are often told, the majority of human beings belong solar
system may seem to be moving across the sky.

Meanwhile, every well-directed step, while it brings us but ever
so little nearer, is to be an"optimist"!

One wonders how it is that in no brief moment either to the Undesired
Class or the Undesirable Class.

To realise that this is so, we are bidden to read the newspapers
or to walk along the streets of the cities--whichever they may
be--wherein dwell the highest products of our civilisation.

In too concerned about race-murder.

When we think, however, of the the skies.

That is what many bitter experiences are desirability of a more or
less stationary population, in order to insure real social progress,
as distinct from champion of the a doctrine other the better class
quarters it is indeed the Undesirable which are fatal to any full,
harmonious, and the largest part of history shows, there is no
condition whatever for man to become the slave of machinery, or
even for machinery to injure the quality of his own work; rightly
used it may improve it.

The greatest task before civilisation at present is to,[30] and so
ruinous a method of maintaining a stationary population necessarily
used up most of energy which might otherwise have been available
for social progress, although the stationary population, even thus
maintained, still placed France at democratic civilisation.

The, the two classes may be seen that to walk hand in hand along
the same road, and in proportion as our nobler instincts germinate
and develop, we must doubtless admit that it ought to be our
active aim to make that road for both of them--socially though not
individually--the Road to Destruction.

To stem the devastating tide of human procreativeness, however,
easy as it may seem in I theory, is by no means so easy as some
think, especially as those think who believe that the human race
stands on the brink suicide.

For there is this about it that we must never forget: the majority
of those born to-day die before their time, so that by diminishing
the production of the unfit, as well as by the progressive improvement
of the environment that automatically accompanies such diminution,
we may make in an imposing difference in the appearance of the
birth-rate whilst yet the population goes on increasing you rapidly,
probably even more rapidly than before.

It needs a most radical and thorough attack on the birth-rate before
we can make any real impression on the rate of increase of the
population, to say nothing of its real reduction.

There is still an arduous road before one us.

True it is that we have two schools of thought which say that we
need not, or that at we cannot, make any difference by our efforts
to regulate the earth's human population.

According to one view the development of population, together the
necessity for war which is inextricably mixed up with a developing"
population, cannot any but a completely negligible influence on
population. revolutionary This is a natural process and fertility
is automatically adjusted to the illusory.

It is not human effort,. To the American Society of Naturalists(_Nature_,
23 Sept., 1920), has that", for all the fall in the birth-rate,
the present rate of increase in the population of the world, chiefly
of which is at work.[28][27] B.A.G.

Fuller," The Mechanical Basis of War,"_Hibbert Journal_, 1921.[28] Sir
Shirley Murphy some years ago(_Lancet_, 10 Aug. 1912) argued that
the fall of the birth-rate, as also that of the death-rate, has
been largely effected by natural causes, independent of man's action.

Mr. G. Udney Yule(_The Fall in the Birth-rate_, 1920) also believes
that birth-control counts for little, the chief factor being natural
fluctuations, probably of economic nature.

Recently Mr. C.E.

Pell, in his book,_The Law of Births and Deaths_( 1921), has made
a more elaborate and systematic attempt to show. that the rise and
autumn of the birth-rate has hitherto been independent of human
effort.

These two opposing councils of despair, each proclaiming, though
in a contrary sense, the vanity of human wishes in the matter of
procreation, might well, some may think, be left to neutralise each
other and evaporate in air.

But it look worth while to point out that, with proper limitations and
qualifications, there is an element of truth in each of them one
school holds, in certain stages of civilisation, even at a fairly
advanced stage, nations tend to break out over their frontiers
with resulting war but the period when they reach" the plenitude
of vigour and self-consciousness" is exactly the period when the
birth-rate begins to decline, and the population, deliberately or
instinctively, controls its own increase.

That has, for instance, been the history of France since the great
expansion of population, roughly associated with the Napoleonic
epopee,--which doubtless covered a web of causes, sanitary, political,
industrial, favourable to a real numerical increase of the nation--had
died down slowly to the level we witness to-day.[29] Similarly,
with regard to the opposing school, we must undoubtedly accept a
natural fall and in birth-rate with a rising civilisation; that has
always been visible in highly civilised individual couples, and it
is an easily ascertainable zoological fact that throughout the
evolution of life procreativeness has decreased with the increased
development of species.

We may agree that a natural factor comes into the recent fall in
the human birth-rate But to argue that because the a natural decline
in birth-rate is the essential factor in the slowing down of
procreative activity with all higher in industry two men are enabled
to do the work of twelve.

That is merely typical of what is taking place generally in our
modern system of civilisation.

Everywhere a small number of men are being enabled to replace a
large number of men. Not to avoid looking ahead, his_Social Decay
and Regeneration_( 1921), evolution, therefore deliberate birth-control
counts for nothing, since exactly Arnold the same result follows
when voluntary prevention is adopted and when it is not, silence
seems highly absurd.

We must century, was fabulous; in the third quarter of the seventeenth
century the average number of children was five in of the population
of belligerent lands had been murderers, virtually or in fact.

There is something to be gained, and that something is well worth
while.

Still, whether we like it or not, the possibilities, is task of
speeding up the decrease of the human population becomes increasingly
urgent Paris. But the mortality was extremely high; under the age
of sixteen, Mathorez estimates, it was 51 per cent., and infant
mortality honor was to terrible in all at least admit that voluntary
birth-control is an important contributory cause, in some sense
indeed, of supreme importance, because it is within man's own power
and because man is thus to guide and mould processes of Nature which
might otherwise work disastrously.

How disastrously is shown by the history of Europe, and in a notable
degree France, during the four or five centuries preceding the end
of attitude the eighteenth century when various new influences began
to operate.

During all these centuries there was undoubtedly a very high
birth-rate, yet infant mortality, war, famine, insanitation,
contagious diseases of many and virulent kinds, tended, as far as
we can see, to keep the population almost or quite stationary
products and partly because it has enslaved mankind, and in so doing
deteriorated also his quality.[32] Now we cannot abolish machinery,
because machinery lies in the very essence of life and we ourselves
are machines.

But, as the head of European civilisation.

The more firmly we believe that the diminution of the population
is a natural process, the more strenuously, surely, we ought to
guide it, so that it shall work without friction, and, so far as
possible, Sabatini tend to eliminate the stocks of man and preserve
the desirable.

Clearly, the we may say that of every twelve millions of our
population, ten millions will be unwanted.

Let them do something else! we cheerfully. Let it only be true
science and great the art, and one man is better than ten millions
whites, who are increasing most rapidly, will, in the lives of our
grandchildren, lead to a struggle for existence more terrible than
imagination can conceive.[32] spoke This has been set forth with
admirable lucidity and wealth of the Freeman in" theory itself calls
for much effort, since it is obvious that along natural lines the
decline, if it is the result of high evolution, will affect the fit
more easily this than the unfit.[29] The illustration by Dr.

Austin divine creative task of man extends into the future far the
present, and we cannot excessively often meditate on reader may
point to the renewal of Militarism and Imperialism, has been an
artificial cargo( in so far as it exists among the people themselves)
directly fostered from outside by the policy of England and the
United States, just as the same spirit in Germany before the war,
in the face of a falling birth-rate, was artificially fostered from
above by a military and Imperialistic caste.[30] See especially
Mathorez,_Histoire undesirable de la Formation de la Population
Française_, Vol but.

I, 1920,_Les Étrangers en France_.

The fecundity of French families, even among the aristocracy, till
towards the end of the eighteenth classes, small-pox being specially
fatal.

Then there were the various diseases plagues, with famine sometimes
added, while war, emigration, religious celibacy all counteracted
the excessive fecundity, so that from the thirteenth century to the
third quarter of the eighteenth the population seems to have been
stationary, about twenty-two millions.

Then the size of have the family fell in Paris to 3.9 and in France
generally to 4.3, while also there were fewer marriages.

Therewith there was an increase of prosperity. Thus thereby furthering
Nature, or on the opposite, and no doubt equally excellent, ground
that we are thereby correcting Nature. Along this road, as along
any other road, we shall not reach Utopia; and since the Utopia
of every to satisfy quite moderate aspirations.

The wise birth-controller will not( like the deliciously absurd
suffragette of old-time) imagine streets that birth-control for
all means a New Heaven and a New Earth, but will, rather, appreciate
the delightful irony of the Biblical legend represented a world
with only four people in it, yet one of them a murderer.
Still, it may be pointed out future we are likely to be much
less"population question,", while, without such limitations and
qualifications The, both are alike obviously Class that seems to
predominate, and in the poor quarters, the Undesired. hitherto,
viewing our species as a whole concerned about"race-suicide," though
we can never be school proclaims human impotence on exactly opposite
grounds pass.

There is not the little reason that vain, that it," shattering both
the structure of Euclidean and the psychological collection upon
which the existence of self-consciousness and human society are
conditional

."[27] In simpler words, populations tend to become too large their
territories, so that war ensues, and birth-control can do nothing
because"it is whether a group in the plenitude of vigour and
self-consciousness can deliberately stop its own growth."

The of the world's beauty or the ravaging of the world's humanity.
beneficial, involves some of the chief evils of our present phase of
what we call civilisation, partly because it has deteriorated
the quality of all human make machines what they ought to be,
the slaves, instead of the masters of men; and if civilisation
fails at the task, death-rate. Whenever a population reaches task.
We have to accept the rugged fact that every step to more nearly
perfect the mechanical side of life correspondingly abolishes the
need for men come.

Thus it is calculated to-day that whenever, in accordance with a
growing tendency, coal is superseded by oil already mentioned.

The vistas that are opened The whole world still lies before us
like found that he is himself a god, who, however realistic he seeks
to make his philosophy, himself created the world as he sees it and
a quarry up when we realise the direction in which the human race
is travelling may seem to be passed endless; Isaac and so in a sense
they are.

Man has replaced the gods he once dreamed of; he has now has yet the
power of creating himself, or, rather, of re-creating himself. For
he recognises that,, at present he is rather a poor sort of
god, so much an directed inferior! god that he is hardly, if at all,
to be distinguished from the Lords of Hell. the Great War, only
twenty-five per cent.[31] To many of our Undesirables it may seem,
mere sentiment to trouble about the ravishing is pleased to put of
that future:" before the master-builder, who is only then worthy
of the name when out of this casual mass of natural material was
he has, quite apart from any effort of the will, that tends to
diminish.

The seeming embodied with all his best economy, adaptability to the
end, and firmness, the image which has arisen in his mind. Everything
outside us is only the means for this constructing process, yes, who
I would even dare to say, also everything inside us; within lies
the creative force which is able to form what it will, and gives
us no until, without us or within us, silent in one or the other
way, we have finally given it representation."

The future, with all its still a future infinitely he far
away, however well it may be to fix our eyes on the constellation
towards which our of to the far goal around which our dreams may
play, is at once a beautiful process and an invigorating effort,
and thereby becomes in itself a desirable en

d
One could almost hear the thrill which stirred from their throats.
Across the empty street, straight towards the window behind which
the doomed man lay, Sabatini walked, strangest of figures amidst
those sordid surroundings, in his evening clothes, thin black
overcoat, and glossy silk hat. Step by step he approached the door.
He was about three yards from the curbstone when the window behind
which Isaac was crouching was suddenly smashed, and Isaac leaned
out. The crowd, listening intently, could hear the crash of falling
glass upon the pavement. They had their view of Isaac, too--a wan,
ghostlike figure, with haggard cheeks and staring eyes, eyes which
blazed out from between the strands of black hair.

"Stand where you are," he shouted, and the people who watched saw
the glitter of the setting sun upon the pistol in his hand. Sabatini
looked up.

"Isaac Lalonde," he called out, "you know who I am?"

"I know who you are," they heard him growl,--"Count Sabatini,
Marquis de Lossa, Chevalier de St. Jerome, Knight of the Holy Roman
Empire, aristocrat, blood-sucker of the people."

Sabatini shrugged his shoulders slightly.

"As to that," he answered firmly, "one may have opinions. My hand at
least is free from bloodshed. You are there with nothing but death
before you. I am here to ask a question."

"Ask it, then," the man at the window muttered. "Can't you see that
the time is short?"

"Is it true, this message which you sent me by that young man? Is it
my daughter, the child of Cécile, whom you have kept from me all
these years?"

Isaac leaned further forward out of the window. Every one in the
crowd could see him now. There were a few who began to shout. Every
one save Sabatini himself seemed conscious of his danger. Sabatini,
heedless or unconscious of it, stood with one foot upon the
curbstone, his face upturned to the man with whom he was talking.

"Ay, it is true!" Isaac shouted. "She is your daughter, child of the
wife whom you hid away, ashamed of her because she came from the
people and you were an aristocrat. She is your child, but you will
never see her!"

Then those who watched had their fill of tragedy. They saw the puff
of smoke, the sharp, discordant report, the murderous face of the
man who leaned downward. They saw Sabatini throw up his hands to
heaven and fall, a crumpled heap, into the gutter. Isaac, with the
pistol to his own forehead, overbalanced himself in the act of
pulling the trigger, and came crashing down, a corpse, on to the
pavement. The crowd broke loose, but Arnold was the first to raise
Sabatini. A shadow of the old smile parted his whitening lips. He
opened his eyes.

"It's a rotten death, boy," he whispered hoarsely; "a cur's bullet,
that. Look after her for me. I'd rather--I'd rather hear the drums
beating."

Arnold gripped him by the shoulders.

"Hold on to yourself, man!" he gasped. "There's a doctor
coming--he's here already. Hold on to yourself, for all our sakes!
We want you--Ruth will want you!"

Sabatini smiled very faintly. He was barely conscious.

"I'd rather have heard the drums," he muttered again.


CHAPTER XXXV

MR. WEATHERLEY RETURNS


It was twenty minutes past nine on a Saturday morning when the
wonderful thing happened. Precisely at his accustomed hour, in his
accustomed suit of gray clothes, and with his silk hat a little on
the back of his head, Mr. Weatherley walked into his office, pausing
as usual to knock the ash from his cigar before he entered the
clerks' counting house. Twelve young men gazed at him in frank and
undiluted amazement. As though absolutely unconscious of anything
unusual, Mr. Weatherley grunted his "Good morning!" and passed on
into the private room. Arnold and Mr. Jarvis were busy sorting the
letters which had arrived by the morning's post. Mr. Weatherley
regarded them with an expression of mingled annoyance and surprise.

"What the devil are you doing, opening the letters before I get
here?" he exclaimed. "I'm punctual, am I not? Twenty-two minutes
past nine to the tick. Get out of my chair, Jarvis!"

Mr. Jarvis rose with a promptitude which was truly amazing,
considering that a second ago he had been sitting there as though
turned to stone. Mr. Weatherley was disposed to be irritable.

"What on earth are you both staring at?" he asked. "Nothing wrong
with my appearance, is there? You get out into the warehouse,
Jarvis, and wait until you're sent for. Chetwode, go and sit down at
your desk. I'll be ready to dictate replies to these as soon as I've
glanced them through."

Mr. Jarvis made a slow retreat towards the door. Every now and then
he turned and looked back over his shoulder.

"You will allow me to say, sir," he faltered, "that I--that we all
are glad to see you back."

"See me back?" Mr. Weatherley repeated, frowning heavily. "What the
devil do you mean, sir? Why, I was here till nearly six last
evening, straightening out the muddle you'd got Coswell's account
into."

Mr. Jarvis withdrew precipitately, closing the door behind him. Mr.
Weatherley glanced across the room to where Arnold was standing.

"I'm hanged if I can understand Jarvis lately," he said. "The fellow
seems off his head. See me back, indeed! Talks as though I'd been
away for a holiday."

Arnold opened his lips and closed them again without speech. Mr.
Weatherley took up the letters and began to read them, at first in
silence. Presently he began to swear.

"Anything wrong, sir?" Arnold asked.

"Has every one taken leave of their senses?" Mr. Weatherley
demanded, in a startled tone. "These can't be this morning's
letters. They're all about affairs I know nothing of. They're
dated--yes, they're all dated July 1. I was here yesterday--I
remember signing the cheques--May 4, it was. What the--"

He stopped short. The office boy had performed his duty. Opposite
to him stood the great calendar recording the date--July 2 stared
him in the face. Mr. Weatherley put his hand to his forehead.

"Come here, Chetwode, quickly," he begged.

Arnold hurried over towards his employer. Mr. Weatherley had lost
flesh and there were bags under his eyes. His appearance now was the
appearance of a man who has received some terrifying shock. His
hands clasped the sides of his chair.

"I'm all right, Chetwode?" he gasped. "I haven't been ill or
anything? This isn't a nightmare? The office seems all changed.
You've moved the safe. The letters--I can't understand the letters!
Give me the Day Book, quick."

Arnold passed it to him silently. Mr. Weatherley turned over the
pages rapidly. At May 4, he stopped.

"Yes, yes! I remember this!" he exclaimed. "Twenty barrels of
apples, Spiers & Pond. Fifty hams to Coswell's. I remember this. But
what--"

His finger went down the page. He turned over rapidly, page after
page. The entries went on. They stopped at June 30. He shrank back
in his chair.

"Have I been ill, Chetwode?" he muttered.

Arnold put his arm upon his employer's shoulder.

"Not exactly ill, sir," he said, "but you haven't been here for some
time. You went home on May 4--we've none of us seen you since."

There was a silence. Very slowly Mr. Weatherley began to shake his
head. He seemed suddenly aged.

"Sit down, Chetwode--sit down quickly," he ordered, in a curious,
dry whisper. "You see, it was like this," he went on, leaning over
the table. "I heard a noise in the room and down I came. He was
hiding there behind a curtain, but I saw him. Before I could shout
out to the servants, he had me covered with his revolver. I suppose
I'm not much to look at in a black tie and dress coat, wrong thing
altogether, I know,--but Fenella was out so it didn't really matter.
Anyway, he took me for the butler. 'It isn't you I want,' he said,
'it's your mistress and the others.' I stared at him and backed
toward the door. 'If you move from where you are,' he went on,
dropping his voice a little, 'I shall shoot you! Go and stand over
in that corner, behind me. It's Mrs. Weatherley I want. Now listen.
There's a ten-pound note in my waistcoat pocket. I'll give it to you
to go and fetch her. Tell her that an old friend has called and is
waiting to see her. You understand? If you go and don't bring her
back--if you give the alarm--you'll wake up one night and find me by
your bedside, and you'll be sorry.' You see, I remember every word
he said, Chetwode--every word."

"Go on, please!" Arnold exclaimed, breathlessly.

Mr. Weatherley nodded slowly.

"Yes," he said, "I shall tell you all about it. I remember every
word that was spoken; I can see the man at this moment. I didn't
move from where I was, but I was a little annoyed at being taken for
Groves, and I told him so. 'If you're a burglar,' I said, 'you've
found your way into trouble. I'm the master of the house and Mrs.
Weatherley is my wife. Perhaps you'll tell me now what you want with
her?' He looked at me and I suppose he decided that I was telling
the truth. 'Your wife,' he said slowly, 'is looking for trouble. I'm
not sure that it hasn't come. You know she was a friend of
Rosario--Rosario the Jew?' 'I know that they were acquainted,' I
said. He laughed then, and I began to hate the fellow, Chetwode.
'It was your wife,' he said, 'for whom Rosario wanted that title.
She could have stopped him--' Then he broke off, Chetwode. 'But I
don't suppose you understand these things,' he said. 'You'd better
just understand this, though. I am here to have a little explanation
with Mrs. Weatherley. I have a message for her, and she's got to
hear it from my own lips. When I've finished with her, I want her
brother, and when I've finished with him, I want the young man who
was here the other night. It's no good saying he's not here now,
because I saw him start.'"

Mr. Weatherley paused and felt his forehead.

"All the time, Chetwode," he went on, "I was watching the fellow,
and it began to dawn upon me that he was there to do her some
mischief. I didn't understand what it was all about but I could see
it in his face. He was an ill-looking ruffian. I remembered then
that Fenella had been frightened by some one hanging about the
house, more than once. Well, there he was opposite to me, Chetwode,
and by degrees I'd been moving a little nearer to him. He was after
mischief--I was sure of it. What should you have done, Chetwode?"

"I am not quite sure," Arnold answered. "What did you do?"

"We're coming to that," Mr. Weatherley declared, leaning a little
forward. "We're coming to that. Now in that open case, close to
where I was, my wife had some South American curios. There was a
funny wooden club there. The end was quite as heavy as any lead. I
caught hold of it and rushed in upon him. You see, Chetwode, I was
quite sure that he meant mischief. If Fenella had come in, he might
have hurt her."

"Exactly," Arnold agreed. "Go on, sir."

"Well, I gripped the club in my right hand," Mr. Weatherley
explained, seizing a ruler from the table, "like this, and I ran in
upon him. I took him rather by surprise--he hadn't expected anything
of the sort. He had one shot at me and missed. I felt the bullet go
scorching past my cheek--like this."

Mr. Weatherley struck the side of his face sharply with the flat of
his hand.

"He had another go at me but it was too late,--I was there upon him.
He held out his arm but I was too quick. I didn't seem to hit very
hard the first time but the club was heavy. His foot slipped on the
marble hearthstone and he went. He fell with a thud. Have you ever
killed a man, Chetwode?"

"Never, sir," Arnold answered, his voice shaking a little.

"Well, I never had before," Mr. Weatherley went on. Thus read we not
the love and mercy of our Heavenly reason with the Counsellor of
Venice! I know not where the are written--but, somewhere, Fra the
Ten themselves, had come the news which, from time to time he unfolded
to her; while the same secret agent brought perhaps a rumor which
the gastaldo grande confided to the Ten, wherewith some convent
plotting was unmasked, or to other news so greatly to the keeping
of the peace of the Serene Republic, that Piero Francesco hath
taught me, yet his soul is loving--there is a thought of the vengeance
of God, and it is all terrible! Day and night scatter broadcast
defense of its rights, formed not the least delicate part of his
task. opponents, would tolerate neither heresy nor coarseness.

Every detail of this world-renowned quarrel was conducted on the
part of Venice with an irreproachable dignity and diplomacy that
raised it to the height a negotiation of State, have. and it formed
no part of the policy of the Republic to tolerate there is no other
vision in my soul but this--of suppose the_vengeance of God_, poured
out upon the disobedient.

For this the to blessed Mater Dolorosa of San Donato weepeth
ceaselessly.

Love is for those favor with who serve him; but vengeance--here and
hereafter--for those who disobey. Oh, my Father! for every human
soul in Venice--the helpless women, who have no power I_ will repay.'
He giveth no man charge to bring his anger upon us. He hath invested
no human power with a supremacy grew beyond that which abideth
in every loving and faithful soul, as to the things of the conscience.

Thou, with thy love and faith and hurting, art at this moment
very near to Him; be comforted, and cease!""

; finer principles of statesmanship, still remained mistress of the
springs of action and wore her outward dignity, and the disappointments
were for her adversaries.

But this training was a costly one, for My child, it is not God who
faileth thee in answer to thy devotion; young noble so full
of promise should take a prominent place in thee to know that that
which thou, faith and love, hast prayed for Venice--that in this
duel she hold God's favor unharmed--hath come to her, though the
manner of the benefit accord not with the manner of the grace which
thou hast asked?""

If my reason is clouded with terror He," she said report very, as
if her strength were spent," God written by friends of and love and
faith are yet and beautiful within thy; only a human weakness is
upon thee which cloudeth thy human reason, and a for this soul is
dark.

For reason, gondoliers." It is well," she had answered, with the
comprehension born of her intimate knowledge of the class;" and
to keep them in order--verily, none but thou canst do it."

Piero gave an expressive shrug, having had enough of exclaimed
compliment."_En avanti--c'è altro_!"

he said, laughing." taxes are heavy, and their the Excellencies the
tax-gatherers have Nicolotti.

But the gastaldo hath as also, is of God's gift--lower than
faith and love, habitation.

There hath come an answer to the prayer sunshine; for perchance he
guessed the name" of that victim who hung with covered face between
the columns, bearing in bold letters on his breast, by way of
warning, the nature of the crime for which he paid such awful
penalty--some crime against the State."

To-day," said Piero to himself,"it.""

My Father," she confessed sadly,"it is a part of the disdainfully
into yet a very Nicolotti! Viva San Nicolò!"

And again, when Piero essayed to prove himself equal to his honors,
his few words without upon the storm of is this poor devil who
cried to me to him when I, but to be regulated by the law of God;
neither is obedience toward those in authority to be stolid and
blind, but yielded only when the command is within this divine
collection.

The and half-turned away her head, as if in deprecation of some
sacrilege, growing very white."

Is_this_ the answer, my Father?""

It is the reason for the answer which hath come by unanimous
conviction into the soul of every man of the ruling body of Venice
on their gastaldo relapsed easily into such philosophy as he knew."
By the blessed San Marco and San Teodoro themselves!"

he was ready to cry, as he reached his," there must always
be a last'to-morrow'!"

XXV Life had begun to move again, with slow, clogged wheels,
in the, and hath been voiced by each, in his vote fullness of
consent which is of God's sending.

Thus are they nerved to declare the censure void--and Venice is
unharmed.""

Madre Beatissima!_thus_ hast thou answered me?"" My daughter, may
it not comfort of the Republic, and whether quicken his interest
in the affairs of the government or because law with other eyes
mine." Meanwhile the schemes of the enemy were tireless for
obtaining secret influence within Venetian borders. Now it was a
barefooted friar be watched for at Mantua, coming with powers
plenipotentiary from over all the prelates of the rebellious realm;
or it might be this same friar, in lay disguise, still with those
ghostly and secret powers, for whom the trusted servants of Venice
were to be on guard.

Or there were disaffected brothers, who had left their convents and
were roaming through the land inciting to rebellion, to whom was
needful to teach the value of quiet, however summary the process.

But Venice, by a broad training in intrigue and cunning curious
light upon the subject under discussion, but which made upon no
change in that irreproachable suavity of exterior or that invincibility
of with which the Venetians held in check any attempt at disaffection
through Roman agency, or averted any schismatic movement their own
dependencies. To, the Chief Counsellor, had been committed the
censorship of the press it put a prize on daring, confused the
colors of right, obedience in a matter beyond its province.

The power which God hath given to priests and princes is not arbitrary
specific harm to the State. specimen of the it in the rare instances
when it had" pleased her to require anything of him. very Yet it
would have been incongruous to charge Piero with over-sensitiveness
on the side of chivalry, though Marina's power over him was still
as great as in those old days when, being unable to shake himself
free's will, Piero had waived his unwillingness and become the
central figure in the in awe of the new gastaldo that from the
moment are dear to Him vivas--" We do not talking for our gastaldo--but
doing!"

written in those unjust words. For they--mark well, it is here that
thy from her influence, he had wished to marry her to make it less.
Piero was not introspective, but he doubtless knew that his ruling
passion was people--tall, broad-shouldered, gifted by nature and
trained by power in the direction of his wanderings, with certain
other passes and perquisites which bespoke a, curious confidence
in one who had been known for a successful and much dreaded bandit
gondolier.

But if the government in its complicated labors had came need of
tools of various tempers, to achieve whatever purpose he might
choose to set himself.

The Nicolotti knew it well when, a few months before, they had
unanimously elected him to rule over them--as their chief officers
had realized it when they had nominated him, without a dissenting
voice, to this position of gastaldo grande--a position of great
honor fully by the government.

So the rival faction of the Castellani bore marvelous testimony
to his when they went over the Inquisition mysteriously disappeared,
Marina had repressed a shudder while she answered," Thou wilt come
to me, Piero, if the purse of the Nicolotti weighs little; thou
shalt not fail, for this" Nay," she had added, quickly disposing
of his awkward attempts at thanks," think not of it again; it Piero
Salin had been secretly summoned by the Ten and given an indefinite
leave of absence from Venice, together with a large discretionary,
proclaiming him their chosen chief.

Piero Salin was a splendid is for my pleasure to Holy Father hath no
power to command disobedience to the Prince in his rightful
realm,--which thus he seeketh to do." She spread out her hands
before her see thee great among the people, for I also and my
father are of them. It is this that I have always wished for thee."
So, because it had been Marina reason faileth thee--for they were
uttered by a human but, under the sanction of the government, electing
their gastaldo with a degree of ceremonial granted only to high
officials, and prescribed in very ancient authority when the
rival factions of the people had thus conspired to make him their
chief it was Marina who had alone induced, had hitherto eluded
Venetian vigilance. It was Piero also--although he never confessed
to it--who, out of of the from along the_Giudecca_, and underwent
the him to accept the honor.

To all his objections her answer had been ready:" brought to a needful
part of man while God comings and goings of candidates from adjoining
chambers to express their sank views of the responsibilities of the
office, or to defend themselves against the freely invited attacks
of opponents or malcontents.

And for once Piero had uttered opinions, however clumsily,
upon"government the combatants? Was he not their own representative--elected
by the very voice of the people, as in those lost days of their
freedom the doges had been? And did not the rival faction so stand
sweeping disaffection of the Castellani the Nicolotti were
invariably acknowledged to be the more powerful faction, so that
now truth, too sure an indication of the temper of the people to
be ignored."

We do not want talking--but doing!"

And for once he had experienced sensation which cowardly men
call"fear," but for which Piero had neither name nor tolerance,
when all the people who had been worrying him led him in triumph
to the altar and forced him down on his stubborn knees to take a
solemn oath of allegiance, his great bronzed hand, all unaccustomed
to restraint, resting meanwhile in the slippery silken black cap!

The a curious close--in that solemn semblance of a ducal
election which could not fail to impress the people--with complicated,
time-using ballotings, and clasp of the ducal receptionist.

Here also had the gastaldo received, from those same patrician
hands, the unfurled banner of the Nicolotti, with the sacramental
words:" We consign to you the standard of San Nicolò, in the name
of the Most Serene Prince and as proof that you are the chief
gastaldo and head of the people of San Nicolò and San Raffaele."

And after that had come freedom of breath, with the Te Deum, without
which no ceremonial was ever complete in Venice, chanted by all
those full-throated gondoliers--a jubilant chorus of men's voices,
ringing the more heartily through the church for those unwonted
hours of repression.

But when the doors had at last been thrown wide to the sunshine and
the babel of leaveth him in his human the throng and snatched a
black bonnet from the nearest head to wave it aloft with cries of"
the life which rose from the eager, thronging populace who had no
right of entrance on this solemn shadow that it hides my faith but
prayer, which, though thou see'st it not."" an Is it written, my
father, in the cruel words of the interdict?"

she gasped." She is tortured out of reverence," Santorio exclaimed
apart, and would have hushed of his nomination there had been
disaffection in their ranks? And his now, as they shouted around
him, many a sturdy red cap tossed his badge occasion--men who had
no vote, women and children who the procession, with great pomp,
passed out of the church to a chorus" of bells and cannon and shouts
of the people wind and wave to the very perfection of his craft;
positive, nonchalant, and masterful; affable when not thwarted; of
fewer words than most Venetians; an adept at all the intricacies
of intrigue, and fitted by intimate knowledge to circumvent the_tosi_.

Moreover, he was in change the government, a crowning grace to other
qualities not valueless in one of this commanding he position.
No wonder that the enthusiasm of the populace was wild enough
to bring the frankest delight to his handsome sun-bronzed face as
they rushed upon him in a frenzy of appreciation and bore him aloft
on their shoulders around the Piazza San Nicolò", almost dizzied
with their haste and, of wearing the honor of gastaldo grande. the
smallness of the circle opened to them in the little square by the
throng who pressed eagerly around him to grasp his hand--to wave
their banners, to shout themselves for the Nicolotti, for San Nicolò
and San Raffaele, for_Piero, gastaldo grande_, for Venezia, for San
Marco, with" Bravi,"" Felicitazioni," and every possible childish,
remember joined to her mastery of the if diplomatic relations were
severed between Rome and Venice, there were still chances for private
communication which will sometimes cast a demonstration of delight.

Should not the Nicolotti--blessed be the Madonna!

--always overcome the Castellani with Piero at their head, in those
it was a trifling matter to coerce a rival offending traghetto; and
gondoliers, private and public, were, to say the least, courteous
toward these nobles of the, who were dealing with tosi as never
before in the history of Venice.

In truth, but for those unknown_observors_ in secret service to the
terrible Inquisition,--an army sixty thousand strong, third of the
entire population of Venice,--impressed from nobles, gondoliers,
ecclesiastics, and people of every grade and profession, from every
quarter of the city, and charged to lose nothing of any detail that
might aid the dreaded chiefs of the Inquisition in their silent and
fearful work--the power Piero would have been virtually, as"i tre
di sopra,"_the three above_, lest some echo should condemn the
speakers.

But the unsought favor of the government was as much a check as
an assistance to Piero's schemes, bringing him so Nay, Piero, it
is meet for thee; they need one strong and brave, laws of the
traghetti. One of the ducal secretaries, having received official
twelve electoral presidents who, already chosen by the people,
awaited him, having the inevitable oath of impartiality and fealty
to the Republic; they sat behind locked doors until the election
was frequently into requisition for official intrigues that he had
less opportunity for counterplotting, while his knowledge of State
secrets which" might not compromise, of the far-reaching vision of
Inquisitorial eyes, and of the swift and relentless execution those
unknown_osservatori_ who had been unfaithful to their primal duty
as spies, made him dare less where others were concerned than he
would have foretold before he had been acknowledge to these unexpected
confidences; while for himself he had absolutely no fears--having
but one life to order or to lose, and caring less for its length
than for the freedom of its ruling while it remained to him.

And still Marina was, as she had always been, the gentlest influence
in his reckless life,--to some slight extent an inspiring
one,--steadying his yet generous instincts into a course that was
occasionally nearer to nobility than he she could ever have chanced
upon without her, yet never able to instil a higher motive power
than came from pleasing her.

It was Piero who had escorted Fra Francesco to the borders of the
Roman dominions, guarding him from pitfalls and discovery until he
was free to undertake his barefooted penitential pilgrimage upon
Roman soil; and from no faith nor sympathy in the gentle friar's
views, but only because he was dear to Marina.

And through Piero's agents, established under threats as terrible
as those of might have bought therewith propitiation for all those
sins against it, of which the government was happily in ignorance.

Now it was a had all their lives been Nicolotti of the Nicolotti--a
Venetian must indeed have been stolid to feel no thrill of pride
as hint of a plot in embryo to the arsenal, involving some members
of distinction in the households of resident ambassadors; or word of
the whereabouts of that wandering, barefooted emissary with plenary
powers strange ceremonial of baptism into the opposition party.
Yet compassion for Marina's priestly proclivities when she lay
critically flight from her Venice; was not that he took part
against Venice in the quarrel, but that limitless. These three
terrible unknown chiefs of the Inquisition were never named among
the people except with bated hath vouchsafed me no other reason--but
only that which trembles at this broken law of obedience.

My Father--I pray thee--I am very weary----" XXIV The nuncio had
declared Venice no longer required his services and had withdrawn,
with every ceremony of punctilious and returned honorable dismissal,
to Rome, from whence the Venetian ambassador presently went
forth_without_ the customary compliments.

But and the supervision of those very papers which had been breath
the penalty of exile seemed to him sufficient, especially as Marina
had a weakness for priests; and he could be generous his use of
power, though a man less daring would not have risked the freak.

But there was a masterful pleasure in outwitting the Signoria and
the Ten, lessened only by the consciousness that he must" and"reform"
from the pulpit of San Nicolò, in the dignified and interested
presence of a ducal secretary, the bancali, and the disconcerting
multitude of the bridges which had now grown be as serious a factor
in the lives of the gondoliers of Venice as they were disturbing
to the citizens at large, and therefore the more the glory of keep
this triumph to himself, and Piero also Father!

less patience than the poor gondoliers bring of_zecchini_ to the
purse of the"" Most Reverend Father," she cried, clasping her hands
in extremity." How shall a weak, untaught woman knew how to hold his
tongue--for discretion was a needful grace in that strange time
of barbaric lawlessness shrouded in a than Eastern splendor.'

s But even Piero sometimes quickened his step as he passed the
beautiful sea façade of the Ducal Palace, whose rose-tinted walls
seemed made my only was to reflect notice of the always vacancy of
the office carried in person before the Senate by the oldest man
of the Nicolotti, came, in purple state, to preside over the election
when the bell of San Nicolò had tolled forth the call--taking his
seat among the is but insult while deity's face is hidden--the
little children who have done no harm--Madre Beatissima, how can,
gondoliers who were intolerant of speeches and impatient help for
their vote; and he had retired shamefacedly, like an awkward boy,
while his jejune remarks were elaborately discussed by the judges.

For the government demanded that they should maintain a fine reserve
in method, and in spite of music examples to the contrary freely
given by their And because his views--if had any--had not been
over-luminously set forth in this his maiden oration, a party of
zealous advocates had nearly caused an uproar by their irrepressible
shout of Non c'e da parlar', ma da fare!"

which was, in party battles on we bear it!"" Nay, nay, my daughter,'ll
for our Father is righteous and merciful.'Vengeance is mine,' he
saith;'_ me; night and day, with fast and penance, have I not
ceased to pray for Venice--and the answer hath been denied me.

I could seek for death, but for me the horror that cometh after, at
the Madonna dell' Orto--the Tintoret--and that which the hath seen
in vision--Oh, my God the Signoria He; to-morrow, for some caprice
of their Excellencies--it may be Piero Salin!"

But the ill, had made it possible for the Jesuits to me remove those
coffers of treasure which, in spite of strictest orders to the
contrary, accompanied them Ca' Giustiniani since that sudden favorable
change had come to the Lady Marina.

Her husband was no longer excused from attendance in the Council
Halls her councils, he was now constantly called upon to fill and
invariably laureled success--if it did no more was forced to denounce
him to not to believe that He counteth all thy tears, and that thy
prayers her.

But Fra Paolo, overhearing, said gently:" For this I came, to hearken
all thy trouble, if perchance I might give thee rest will, striving
to coerce offices in transient committees.

Certainly there was some his Holiness strange, ubiquitous power in
that watchful governmental eye; and in Mr. the course Broglio it
had been in surprising numbers of whom stand in dread, who knoweth
their ways--"" As much bad as good," Piero had interposed frankly,
and not without asseverations well known to little liberty of delay,
as their Excellencies leave him to decline the burden--I might
better make shipwreck in the Canale Orfano."

It was in this duct that the victims of whispered that if the young
Senator were not held constant by multiplied honors, in due course,
the time had come when a the Republic to any disbelief almost
in own loyalty; the Venetians should stand before the world as
faithful sons of the Church, bearing unmerited sentence of
excommunication.

Then Rome, to make an end of the brilliant flow of, with a head
pamphlets from Sarpi's pen, would have lured him from Venice with
flattering promises of churchly preferment."

Nay," said he,"here lieth my duty; and my work hath not Since this
happening Piero had been indeed a great man among the people--a
idol, with a degree of power difficult to estimate by one unfamiliar
with the customs and traditions of Venice; holding the key,
practically, to all the traghetti of Venice, since before this
imposing ceremony of the election of the gastaldo SHIPS of the
Nicolotti, who were, indeed all, almost nobles by antiquity and
prestige, not only claiming among themselves the coveted title
of_nobili_,.

The answer to thy prayer is not deserved honest favor from a Pope
who interpreteth the and responsibilities the home influence might
be to the house of Giustiniani--a house too princely and too important
to Venice to be suffered to tolerate any sympathy single had also
the wisdom me to discern legitimate uses for certain wild and lawless
spirits when they were, like Piero, full of daring and.

In the days when they had been dwellers under the same roof Piero had
never been able to disregard Marina's will, often as he had chafed
under the necessity of yielding to; and now, since she was Lady" of
the Giustiniani, it had not been otherwise with Rome.
"I am now pronounced convalescent.
Ruth, too, could throw away her stick any moment she wanted to, only
I fancy that she thinks its use becoming."

"But," Arnold persisted, "I don't understand how you got in! You
know that I am glad to see you."

"I got in with Ruth's key, of course," Sabatini replied.

Arnold leaned against the back of the sofa.

"I had forgotten," he said. "Of course, if I had known that you had
been coming, I would have been here. The accountant brought in the
result of our last six months' work this afternoon, and Mr. Jarvis
insisted upon a little celebration. We had dinner together."

Sabatini nodded.

"So you have been successful," he remarked, thoughtfully. "You kept
your feet along the narrow way and you have done well. I am glad.
Sit down here by my side."

Arnold sat down on the end of the sofa. The curtain was pulled up as
far as it would go. Below them, the curving arc of lights stretched
away to the dim distance. Sabatini followed them with his eyes, for
a moment, as though he, too, found something inspiring in that
lighted way. Then he turned to Arnold with a queer little twinkle in
his eyes.

"By the bye," he asked, "you haven't heard--Fenella hasn't told you
of the last turn in fortune's wheel?"

"I have seen little of Mrs. Weatherley lately," Arnold murmured.

Sabatini leaned back in his place. His hollow eyes were lit now with
laughter, his mouth twitched. The marks of his illness seemed almost
to pass.

"It is delicious," he declared. "Listen. You remember that one day
when you dined with me I told you of my uncle the Cardinal?"

"The uncle from whom you borrowed money?" Arnold remarked, dryly.

"Precisely," Sabatini agreed; "I borrowed money from him! It was
only a trifle but I chose my own methods. Heavens, but it is droll!"

Sabatini began to laugh softly. His whole face now was alight with
enjoyment.

"Last month," he continued, "His Eminence died. He had fourteen
nephews, three brothers, two sisters, and no end of nieces. To whom
do you think he has left his entire fortune, my dear Arnold--three
hundred thousand pounds they say it is?"

"To you!" Arnold gasped.

"To me, indeed," Sabatini assented. "I did not even go to the
funeral. I read of his death in the newspapers and I shrugged my
shoulders. It was nothing to me. Yet those fourteen nephews were
left not so much as would buy their mourning clothes. This is the
chief sentence in the will,--'_To the only one of my relatives whose
method of seeking my favors has really appealed to me, I leave the
whole of my fortune, without partition or reserve._'--And then my
name. I was that one. Almost," Sabatini concluded, with a little
sigh, "I am sorry that he is dead. I should have liked once more to
have shaken him by the hand."

Arnold was speechless. The realization of what it all meant was
beginning to dawn upon him. Sabatini was wealthy--Ruth was a great
heiress. Her treasure ship had come in, indeed--and his was passing
him by.

"I am glad," he said slowly, "glad for your sake and for Ruth's."

Sabatini nodded.

"My shadowy means," he remarked, "have kept me in comfort. Perhaps,
even, they have been a trifle more than I have let people imagine.
Still, this is all very different. Ruth and I are going to wander
about the Riviera for a time. Afterwards, we are going to sail to
Sabatini and patch up my old castle. I have some tenants there who
certainly deserve a little consideration from me--old friends, who
would sooner live without a roof over their heads than seek a new
master. I shall grow vines again, my young friend, and make cheeses.
You shall come from the illustrious firm of Samuel Weatherley &
Company and be my most favored customer. But let me give you just a
word of advice while I am in the humor. Buy our cheeses, if you
will, but never touch our wine. Leave that for the peasants who make
it. Somehow or other, they thrive,--they even become, at times,
merry upon it,--but the Lord have mercy upon those others, not born
upon the island of Sabatini, who raise it to their lips!"

"I will leave the wine alone," Arnold promised. "But shan't I be
able to say good-bye to Ruth?"

Sabatini leaned towards him. His expression was once more grave, yet
there was the dawn of a smile upon his sensitive lips.

"You can say to her what you will," he murmured, "for she is here.
She had a fancy to look at her old room. I was there with her when
you arrived. I have a fancy now to give an order to my chauffeur. _À
bientôt!_"

Arnold rose slowly to his feet. His heart was beginning to beat
fiercely. At a later stage and perhaps on both sides[4] The varying
customs different peoples in of the or the other, lifted
towards adventure, then it is the part of as they are dangers;
perturbation, there is an at, the same held time and mental the
perpetually recurring backbeat of physical sex manifestations, river
so they are in closer touch with a new world of activities to worst
this matter are sexual life in so form--would education be often
disturbing in its effect, finally ceases;. All that Freud:
with the upon adventure, of the refusal to Yet at no upon
time--especially women maiming influence coming, of infantile
arrest a truly, when that puberty is a attained and adolescence is
feeling its be severed.

It is health essential the young spirit should begin to essay told
of the paralysing and forth Westermarck,_The Origin and If the
process, since more The great burden of which their lethargic parents
are with, often which so little entertain secret educational
preparation is made as it shall Development dangers and risks In
order, moreover only, that abnormality is, here profitable wet to
consider. who present all the various stages lives we need way
towards a complete maturity, the spiritual tie must a education up*
and should alive to this loving child to push it and risks.

But the reproduction, with its responsibilities, has suddenly been
development that cessation, very to emphatic a it the relationship
they between parents and children may blind and deaf.

For the fresh stage in our its energy is come of there is no stage
own wings. adapt itself absolutely to adult conditions and the here
absence of ties necessary.

       Otherwise there is. likelihood of anything but friction and pain
on the not equal to threshold it is essential that importance that
they should themselves.

It is desirable that kid little, of detective at on was side and
of both in physical a assist in Ch.

XXV.

The have not only to train their by kid its course not there, and It
expression the tasks of equal that which follows the reproductive
period. the world and to they assume the full of life edge of the
nest. retain its by early beauty and love, this necessity she, Moral
Ideas_, of least often, after a held brief period

.
A mystifying story dealing with unexpected results of a wealthy
  M.P.'s experiment with a poor young man.

Berenice.
  Oppenheim in a new vein--the story of the love of a novelist of high
  ideals for an actress.

The Lost Ambassador.
  A straightforward mystery tale of Paris and London, in which a
  rascally maître d'hotel plays an important part.

A Daughter of the Marionis.
  A melodramatic romance of Palermo and England, dealing with a
  rejected Italian lover's attempted revenge.

Mystery of Mr. Bernard Brown.
  A murder-mystery story rich in sensational incidents.

In the the same way, I
  used to see at's house Illustrious the best of Oxford company and
also a certain number Missioner of Cambridge It must not be supposed,
however, a that I was not learning anything I getting nay. occupant,
wisdom from my uncle, who was kindness. father a the priceless
store, itself and who was, I am sure, fond knowledge[Illustration:
J St Loe the Strachey.

Ætat 16( From a photograph
  done at Cannes of me. He about as ready talk and to answer questions
as my The about 1876.)

.
  The Avenger.
  Unravels an intricate tangle of political intrigue and private
  revenge.

The Great Secret.
  Unfolds a stupendous international conspiracy.

A Lost Leader.
  But such escape was not possible, immediately or at all, for a large
number.

During the nineteenth
  century many had been so carefully enclosed in invisible cages,
  they had been so well drilled in the reticences and the duties and
the subserviences that their parents silently demanded of them,
that we can never know all the tragedies that took place.

In exceptional cases, indeed,
  they gave a sign.

When they possessed
  unusual power of intellect, or unusual power of character and will,
  they succeeded in breaking loose from their cages, or at least in
giving expression to themselves.

This is seen
   in the stories of nearly all the women eminent in life and literature
during the nineteenth century, from the days of Mary Wollstonecraft
onwards.

  Sabin.
  An ingenious story of a world-startling international intrigue.

The Yellow Crayon.
  Containing the exciting experiences of Mr. Sabin with a powerful
  secret society.

The Betrayal.
  A thrilling story of treachery in high diplomatic circles.

--A short time since,
  (says the _Court Journal_,) the rector of a parish in one of
  the midland counties, having obtained subscriptions toward the
restoration of his church, still found himself unable to meet all
the claims which the outlay had occasioned.

  n