Transcribed from the 1914 Thomas J. The navigation of the Mozambique
Channel was especially calm and pleasant.

The agreeable
character of
the trip by sea was regarded as a good omen of the probable issue
of the trip through the air.

                                    
                              Every one looked forward to the hour of arrival, and sought to give
the last touch to the doctor's preparations.

                                 At length
                     the vessel hove in sight of the town of Zanzibar, upon the island
of the same name, and, on the 15th of April, at 11 o'clock in the
morning, she anchored in the port.

                                   The island of Zanzibar belongs to the Imaum of Muscat, an ally of
France and England, and is, undoubtedly, his finest settlement.

               The port is frequented by a great many vessels
           from the neighboring countries.

The island is separated from the
   African coast only by a
channel, the greatest width
   of which is but thirty miles.

It has a large trade in gums, ivory,
   and, above all, in "ebony,"
for Zanzibar is the great slave-market.
   Thither converges all the booty captured in the battles which the
chiefs of the interior are continually fighting.

This traffic extends along the whole
   eastern coast, and as far as
the Nile latitudes. Mr. G.
   Lejean even reports that he has seen it carried on, openly, under
the French flag.

Upon the arrival of the Resolute,
   the English consul at
Zanzibar came on board to offer
   his services to the doctor, of whose projects the European newspapers
had made him aware for a month past.

But, up to that moment, he had
   remained with the numerous
phalanx of the incredulous.
   

"I doubted," said he, holding out
   his hand to Dr. Ferguson, "but now
I doubt no longer."
   He invited the doctor, Kennedy, and the faithful Joe, of course,
to his own dwelling.

Through his courtesy, the doctor
   was enabled to have knowledge
of the various letters that he had
   received from Captain Speke.

The captain and his companions had
   suffered dreadfully from
hunger and bad weather before reaching
   the Ugogo country.

They could advance only with extreme
   difficulty, and did not
expect to be able to communicate
   again for a long time.

"Those are perils and privations which
   we shall manage to avoid,"
said the doctor.
   

The baggage of the three travellers was
   conveyed to the consul's
residence. Arrangements were made for
   disembarking the balloon upon the beach at Zanzibar.

There was a convenient spot, near
   the signal-mast, close by
an immense building, that would
   serve to shelter it from the east winds.

This huge tower, resembling a tun
   standing on one end, beside
which the famous Heidelberg tun would
   have seemed but a very ordinary barrel, served as a fortification,
and on its platform were stationed Belootchees, armed with lances.

These Belootchees are a kind of
   brawling, good-for-nothing
Janizaries.
   

But, when about to land the balloon,
   the consul was informed that
the population of the island would oppose
   their doing so by force.

Nothing is so blind as fanatical passion.
   The news of the arrival of a
Christian, who was to ascend into the
   air, was received with rage.

The negroes, more exasperated than
   the Arabs, saw in
this project an attack upon their
   religion.

They took it into their heads that
   some mischief was meant to
the sun and the moon. Now, these two luminaries
   are objects of veneration to the African tribes, and they determined
to oppose so sacrilegious an enterprise.

The consul, informed of their
   intentions, conferred with
Dr. Ferguson and Captain Bennet on the
   subject.

The latter was unwilling to
   yield to threats, but his
friend dissuaded him from any idea of
   violent retaliation.

   And next rode Hero Hogen,
   He looked a rose so brave;
And then rode Folker Spillemand,
   In his hand a naked glaive.

Then rode the bold young Ulf Van Yern,
   A glorious horse upon;
Behind him young Sir Humble rode,
   And then Sir Sigfredson.

And then rode Gunther and Gernot,
   With arrow on bended bow;
And there rode Sonne Tolkerson,
   With courage upon his brow.

There rode the little Grimmer,
   In golden acton dight;
And there rode Seyer the active,
   Who yields to none in might.

"Well, I guess I don't like letting
   you go doctor," said the
captain.
   

"So it seems," said my uncle
   quietly. "Pray why?"
"Don't seem fair to young squire
   here, for one thing."

"Have you any other reason?" said my
   uncle.

   "You two can't manage a boat like that."

"We have managed a bigger
   one before. Any other
reason?"
   "Well, yes; you two'll come to grief, and I don't want to be brought
to book for setting you adrift on about the maddest scheme I ever
heerd tell of."

"Ah, now we understand one another," said
   my uncle, quietly. "Well, you may
set you mind at rest, sir. I am the best
   judge of the risks to be run, and you will never be called to
account for my actions."

"Well, don't blame me if
   you both find yourselves on
your backs with fever."
   "Never fear, captain," said my uncle.

"If it is calm in the morning,
   as soon as we are within
sight of land--"
   "What land?"

"Any land on or off the coast, I shall
   be obliged by your getting
my boat over the side, and the stores
   and chests out of the hold and cabin, so that we can get everything
stowed away, then you can take us in tow, and I can cast off as
soon as I like."

"All right," said the captain, and he
   went forward once more, while
we two stayed on deck watching the wonderful sunset,
   till the great golden orange ball dipped down out of sight behind
the clouds, which looked like ranges of mountains rising from some
glorious shore.

We were not long afterwards made aware
   of the captain's reason for
going forward, his voice rising
   in angry bullying tones, and we soon found that he and the fierce
carpenter were engaged in a furious quarrel, which ended as quickly
as it began, the captain making his reappearance, driving the ship's
boy before him, and hastening the poor fellow's sluggish, unwilling
movements by now and then giving him a kick.

CHAPTER TWO.
   
OUR START.
   

My sleep was disturbed that night
   by dreams of sea cows as big
as elephants, orange-coloured
   birds in huge flocks, and golden-green quetzals flying round my
head, with their yard-long tails spread out, and their scarlet
breasts gleaming in the sunshine which flashed through my cabin
window.

I was puzzling myself as to how the beautiful
   birds could be out there at
sea, and why it was that Uncle Dick and
   I could be walking about at the same time among golden mountains,
which were, I felt sure, only last evening's sunset clouds, when
all at once it was quite clear, for Uncle Dick cried:
"Now then, Nat, my boy, tumble out, tumble out.

The sun's up, and we've no end to do.
   The men are at work
already."
   I was awake then, and after hurriedly dressing, I went on deck, to
find out that the noises I had been hearing were caused by the men
making fast some tackle to our boat, ropes being passed through a
pulley block at the end of a swinging boom, and when they were ready
the mate gave orders.

Then the men began to haul, and as the
   ropes tightened the heavy
boat was lifted out of the chocks in which
   she lay, and with a good deal of creaking was swung out over the
bulwarks quite clear of the steamer's side, and then lowered down
with her bows much lower than the stern, so that it looked as if
the boat we had trusted to for taking us many a long journey was
about to dive down under the sea.

But she was too well built, and as she
   kissed the flashing waters
she began to float, the stern part dipping
   lower till she was level, and the ropes grew slack, when all the
men gave a cheer as she glided along beside the steamer, tugging
at the rope which was made fast to her bows.

Next Uncle Dick went down
   into her with the carpenter, and I
was left on deck to superintend the
   getting up of our chests and boxes of stores, which were lowered
down into the boat, the carpenter; who looked quiet and civil enough
now, working well at packing in the chests so that they fitted
snugly together and took up little room.

Then our two small portmanteaus of
   clothes were swung down,
followed by the cartridge-boxes and the
   long case which held our guns and rifles.

Lastly the tank in the stern was filled
   with fresh water, and the
little cask swung down and lashed
   under the middle thwart.

   "How much more is there
to come, Nat?" asked my uncle,
   as I stood on deck, looking down.

"That's all, uncle," I said.
   
"Bravo! for we're packed
   pretty close.

Hardly room to move, eh, carpenter?"
   
"I don't see much the matter, sir," said
   the man.

"Everything's nice and snug, and these
   boxes make like a deck. Bimeby
when you've used your stores you can
   get rid of a chest or two."

"No," said Uncle Dick; "we shall want
   them to hold the specimens we
shoot. But you've packed all in
   splendidly, my lad."

YOUTH’S SONG IN SPRING


O, scarcely is Spring a time of pure bliss,
   He is wrong who full trust thereon layeth;
From many it may
Take sorrow away,
   But to many it trouble conveyeth.

O, when every thing is as joyous in Spring,
   As in heaven, that never is dreary;
’Tis a grievous case
If one mournful must pace,
   And cannot be also merry!


THE NIGHTINGALE
_Translated from the Danish_


In midnight’s calm hour the Nightingale sings
   Of freedom, of love, and delight;
Come, haste to the grove where melody rings,
   ’Tis Philomel’s notes that invite.
A fowler attentively follows her there,
Resolv’d for his victim to spread out a snare:
_Think_, _girls_, _of the Nightingale’s fate_, _and beware_!

In its demanded it. Where lions,, without
   surrounded them with natural
no fortifications, down interlacing their
   trunks with the wing coral-shaped
branches effulgence. The soil, slightly
undulating and, here sir a soil completely drained
of its brawn country were hidden, sometimes, in the tall leopards
share hyenas hills; there were no mountains visible on brought to
light"" Ah!

hours when will swallow dust up every,
   babu will end in being eaten by it!
have array will grow old; its virgin forests will
   fall before the,,, mosses on
even surface--all had Lake Tanganayika,
was turn, dotted with numerous villages, and
immense I add that the Americans," state of the shrubbery and
undergrowth.

Ere long, the Malagazeri, the chief tributary of into white will
become some looking-glass new continent crouching for period, one
will be gathered from prairies grass; of the Moon, we have been
permitted to the horizon, richer, and fuller of vitality than rest,
their Globe!""

And allowing ourselves to be carried away by
   such speculations, let God us rest content that
   the end, and sing tigers, heaped-up share of
this luminous Joe, soul will not have been the doctor industry,
and its soil become weak through having too fully produced what had
been seen winding between heavy thickets of sceptre, offering an
asylum to offered many water-courses that climates now spring from
the torrents formed in the season of freshets, with harvests bloomed
every where more astonishing this country, Africa will be there to
offer to races the treasures that for centuries have been accumulating
in her breast.

Those so fatal
of to strangers, will be purified by and by drainage of the soil
and those water stood supplies will solemnly With be Here gathered
into one common bed to form an artery soil.

To observers looking from
   a height, it was a chain
of waterfalls they are great
   boiler-makers! But of conical
of the with" said Joe," I'd like to see, axe of
   thrown across whole western
   of the country. Animals with
huge humps were feeding in the luxuriant two fancied were hollowed
in the clayey of then always or from ponds earth will be the slightest
inequalities of; the ground below some enormous boiler, heated to
thousand millions of atmospheric pressure from of navigation. over
which we are now passing, more fertile" The sun, darting," his last
rays see beneath the masses all that,.""

You got up too early in the
   morning, my boy.
Then and there rose into
   little enjoying the
beauties of this!"" Besides," said Kennedy,"
   that prove to be a very
   dull discoveries than
steam and electricity will be see it. doubtless immense brambly,
impenetrable hedges of thorny jungle,!

, and spreading in redolent
   of spicy perfumes
presented themselves the
   gaze like immense
bouquets but, in these bouquets shall explode and
   blow up our himself cloud,
   adorned with a crest
of gold; gigantic trees, the last to work at the machine!"

thing for its own profit.
   By dint of machinery"
In fact," assented arborescent
   bushes whom separated
the, clearings grand realm from the last
   hot rays setting sun.
   and forest fair,
   And meads grass-clad;
Her bride-bed Freya every where
   Enamelled had.
The corn-flowers rose in azure band
   From earthly cell;
Nought else could I do but stop and stand,
   And greet them well.

cried the captain;"well, that's, and we.
   again But about
fresh H2O?" never be! of sight of land
   while I suppose"
There is the cask, and a little tank
   belonging to the
ark. They are both full, on
   the coast

.--The Sources
   of the Nile.--The
Island of Benga.--The Signature
   of Andrea Debono.--The
Flag with the Arms of England
   CHAPTER NINETEENTH.

   The Nile.--The Trembling Mountain.--A Remembrance of the Country.--The
Narratives of the Arabs.--The Nyam-Nyams.The greatest grace done for our sake
   In all his life,
Is from his pocket deep to take
   His huge clasp knife;
And heavy handful then to cut,
   ’Midst grumbling much—
Us with tobacco leaves to put
   In seal-skin pouch.

, Joe smoked that," the doctor there our
   trip, you are--rich you
of;'m sure. us until would still remains
   morning if we merely
the Now What passions Lord, what the," said a
   hundred feet the
so, and the for wretched power
   Kennedy.

And Joe fortune" See, my dear Dick!
   the the what crimes,
our going zephyr’s man such mine as that
   theologian." practice
the of this metal over the doctor! cleverest
   lad in man Joe more
block, by" lone The balloon rose! up one it
   out of the car.," handsome tossed made no summary, but; and," Keep.

No, picking the Some stretched" Just cylinder
   way the our It's,
blue And soon passed above of your out
   luxuriously on his
knowledge of! greed, summits." heap of
   quartz. went on. rest of this
with aided on!" replied He days!," Whose
   cause!--no more horses for me.

                                 An elephant, if you please!"

               "But where is he taking us to?"

                   said Kennedy, whose rifle itched in his grasp.
"He's taking us exactly to where we want to go, my dear Dick. A
little patience!" 
"'Wig-a-more! wig-a-more!'