Produced by Dave Maddock and The Online Distributed Proofreading Team


THE BISHOP'S SHADOW

BY

I.T. THURSTON

_Author of "Boys of the Central," "A Genuine Lady" etc._

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS BY M. ECKERSON


"This learned I from the shadow of a tree
That to and fro did sway upon a wall,
Our shadow selves--our influence--may fall
Where we can never be."


CONTENTS

   I. LOST--A POCKETBOOK

  II. NAN'S NEW HOME

 III. AN ACCIDENT

  IV. TODE MEETS THE BISHOP

   V. IN THE BISHOP'S HOUSE

  VI. TODE'S NEW START

 VII. AFTER TODE'S DEPARTURE

VIII. THEO'S SHADOW WORK

  IX. THEO IN TROUBLE

   X. A BITTER DISAPPOINTMENT

  XI. THEO'S NEW BUSINESS

 XII. NAN FINDS FRIENDS

XIII. NAN'S DEPARTURE

 XIV. THEODORE GIVES CARROTS A CHANCE

  XV. A STRIKE

 XVI. CALLED TO GO UP HIGHER

XVII. FINAL GLIMPSES


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

  THEODORE BRYAN, SIGN-POLISHER

  "HE'S AWAKIN' UP, I GUESS"

  ADRIFT AGAIN

  "OH, HOW PRETTY,--HOW PRETTY IT IS!"

  "STOP THE CAR!"

  THANKSGIVING REUNION


THE BISHOP'S SHADOW


[Illustration: Theodore Bryan, Sign-Polisher]


I. LOST--A POCKETBOOK


It was about ten o'clock in the morning and a northeast storm was
raging in Boston.

HORACE. You promise me when it is settled that I may speak to
you [becomes suddenly nervous and embarrassed]--that I may speak to
you--
MADAME DE CHAMPIGNY [sweetly].

Yes--speak to me--
HORACE. Speak as--as you must know I want to speak--as I hardly
dare--
MADAME DE CHAMPIGNY [softly, her eyes upon the ground].

Ah, that shall be when you please, dear friend.

HORACE [almost choked with gratitude].

Oh!

[He kisses her hand.]
[HAWCASTLE and LADY CREECH enter from the garden, LADY CREECH talking
excitedly.]
[ALMERIC enters through the gates.]
LADY CREECH. I tell you I couldn't hear a word they said, they mumbled
their words so. But upon my soul, Hawcastle, if I couldn't hear,
didn't I _see_ enough?

HAWCASTLE. Upon my soul, I believe you did.

ALMERIC. Quite a family pow-wow you're havin'.

HAWCASTLE. Is there anything unusual in the village?

ALMERIC. Ra-ther! Carabiniere all over the shop--still huntin' that
bandit feller.

LADY CREECH. Don't mumble your words!

ALMERIC [shouting]. Lookin' for a bally bandit.

[She screams faintly.]
HAWCASTLE. Be quiet!

ALMERIC. He's still in this neighborhood, they think.

LADY CREECH [to HAWCASTLE]. What did I tell you? Now, how long--
HAWCASTLE. You shall not repeat one word of what you saw.
Almeric, find your betrothed and ask her to come here.

ALMERIC. Rumbo! I don't mind, pater!

[Exit into the hotel.]
HORACE. What's the row?

HAWCASTLE. My dear young man, I congratulate you that you and your sister
need no longer submit to an odious dictation.

[Enter PIKE briskly from the hotel.]
PIKE [as he enters, genially]. Looks to me like it was going to clear
up cold.

[LADY CREECH haughtily stalks off into the garden.]
HAWCASTLE [pleasantly]. Good-afternoon, Mr. Pike.

PIKE [going to the motor]. Howdy!

[Begins touching different parts of the engine.]
[MADAME DE CHAMPIGNY and HORACE haughtily follow LADY CREECH.]
HAWCASTLE [suavely, to PIKE]. Mr. Pike, it is an immense pity that there
should have been any misunderstanding in the matter of your ward's
betrothal.

PIKE [looking up for a moment, mildly]. Oh, I wouldn't call it a
misunderstanding.

HAWCASTLE. It would ill become a father to press upon the subject of
his son's merits-- 
PIKE [plaintively].

I don't want to talk about _him_ with you--I don't want to hurt
your feelings.

HAWCASTLE. Perhaps I might better put it on the ground of your
ward's wishes--of certain advantages of position which it is her
ambition to attain.

PIKE [troubled].

I can't talk about it with anybody but her.

[Enter MARIANO from the hotel with a letter on a tray. Goes to PIKE.]

HAWCASTLE. There is another matter--
[PIKE stands examining envelope of the letter in profound thought.]

I fear I do not have your attention.

[MARIANO goes into the hotel.]
PIKE [looking up]. Go ahead!

HAWCASTLE. There is _another_ matter to which I may wish to call
your attention.

PIKE [genially]. Oh, I'll talk about anything _else_ with you.

HAWCASTLE [suavely].

This is a question distinctly different [with a glance at the hotel,
his voice growing somewhat threatening]--distinctly!

[ETHEL enters from the hotel.]
ETHEL [to HAWCASTLE, in a troubled voice]. You wished me to come
here.

HAWCASTLE [going to her and taking her hand]. My child, I wish you to
have another chat with our strangely prejudiced friend on the subject
so near to all our hearts. And I wish to tell you that I see light
breaking through our clouds. Even if he prove obdurate, do not be
downcast--all will be well.

[Turns and goes out into the garden, his voice coming back in benign,
fatherly tones.]

All will be well!

[PIKE stands regarding ETHEL, who does not look up at him.]

PIKE [gently]. I'm glad you've come, Miss Ethel.

I've got something here I want to read to you.

ETHEL [coldly]. I did not come to hear you read.

PIKE. When I got your letter at home I wrote to Jim Cooley, our
vice-consul at London, to look up the records of these Hawcastle
folks and write to me here about how they stand in their own community.

ETHEL [astounded]. What!

PIKE. What's thought of them by the best citizens, and so on.

ETHEL [enraged]. You had the audacity--_you_--to pry into the affairs
of the Earl of Hawcastle!

PIKE. Why, I'd 'a' done that--I wouldn't 'a' stopped at anything--I'd'
'a' done that if it had been the Governor of Indiana himself!

ETHEL. You didn't consider it indelicate to write to strangers about my
intimate affairs?

PIKE [placatingly]. Why, Jim Cooley's home-folks! His office used to
be right next to mine in Kokomo.

ETHEL.

It's monstrous--and when _they_ find what you've done--Oh, hadn't you
shamed me enough without this?

PIKE. I expect this letter'll show who ought to be ashamed.

Now just let's sit down here and try to work things out together.

ETHEL [with a slight, bitter laugh]. "Work things out together!"
PIKE. I'm sorry--for _you_, I mean. But I don't see any other way
to do it, except--together.

Won't you?

[She moves slowly forward and sits at extreme left of the bench.

He watches her, noticing how far she withdraws from him, bows his
head humbly, with a sad smile, then sits, not quite at the extreme
right of the bench, but near it.]

PIKE. I haven't opened the letter yet. I want you to read it
first, but I ought to tell you there's probably things in it'll
hurt your feelings, sort of, mebbe.

ETHEL [icily]. How?

PIKE. Well, I haven't much of a doubt but Jim'll have some
statements in it that'll show you I'm right about these people.

If he's got the facts, I _know_ he will.

ETHEL. _How_ do you know it?

PIKE. Because I've had experience enough of life--

ETHEL. In Kokomo?

PIKE.

Yes, ma'am!

there's just as many kinds of people in Kokomo as there is in Pekin,
and I didn't serve a term in the legislature without learning to
pick underhand men at sight.

Now that Earl, let alone his havin' a bad eye--his ways are altogether
too much on the stripe of T.
Cuthbert Bentley's to suit me.

[He opens the envelope slowly, continuing.]

T. Cuthbert was a Chicago gentleman with a fur-lined overcoat. He opened
up a bank in our town, and when he caught the Canadian express,
three months later, all he left in Kokomo was the sign on the
front door. That was _painted_ on. And as for the son. But there--I
don't know as I have a call to say more.

[Takes the letter from the envelope.]

Here's the letter; read it for yourself.

[Gives it to her, watching her as she reads.]

ETHEL [reading].

"Dear Dan: The Earldom of Hawcastle is one of the oldest in the
Kingdom, and the St.

Aubyns have distinguished themselves in the forefront of English battles
from Agincourt and Crecy to Sebastopol.

[She reads this in a ringing voice and glances at him.]
[PIKE looks puzzled and depressed.]

"The present holder of the title came into it unexpectedly through a
series of accidental deaths. He was a younger son's younger son,
and had spent some years in Russia in business--what, I do not
know--under another name.

I suppose he assumed it that the historic name of St.
Aubyn might not be tarnished by association with trade.

He has spent so much of his life out of England that it is difficult to
find out a great deal about him.

Nothing here in his English record is seriously against him; though
everything he has is mortgaged over its value, the entail having
been broken.

[ETHEL pauses and looks at PIKE, who, much disturbed, rises, and crosses
the stage.]
"As to his son, the Honorable Almeric, there's no objection alleged
against his character.

That's all I've been able to learn."
[She finishes with an air of triumphant finality, and rises with a
laugh.]

A terrible indictment! So that was what you counted on to convince
me of my mistake?

PIKE [distressed]. Yes--it _was_!

ETHEL.

Do you assert there is _one_ word in this seriously discreditable
to the reputation of Lord Hawcastle or Mr.

St. Aubyn?

PIKE [humbly]. No.

ETHEL.

And you remember, it is the testimony offered by your own friend
[scornfully]--by your own detective!

PIKE [ruefully]. Oh, if I wanted a detective I wouldn't get Jim
Cooley--at least, not any _more_!

[His attitude is thoroughly crestfallen.]

ETHEL [triumphantly, almost graciously].

I shall tell Lord Hawcastle that you will be ready to take up the
matter of the settlement the moment his solicitor arrives.

PIKE. No, I wouldn't do that.

ETHEL [in a challenging voice]. Why not?

PIKE [doggedly].

Because I won't take up the matter of settlements with him or any one
else.

ETHEL [angrily]. Do you mean you cannot see what a humiliation your
interference has brought upon you in this?

PIKE. No; I see that plain enough.

ETHEL. Have you, after this, any further objections to my alliance
with Mr. St. Aubyn?

PIKE. It ain't an alliance with Mr. St. Aubyn that you're
after.

ETHEL.

Then what am I [pauses and lays scornful emphasis on the next word]
_after_?

[Illustration: "YOU'RE AFTER SOMETHING THERE ISN'T ANYTHING TO"]
PIKE [slowly]. You're after something there isn't anything to. If I'd
let you buy what you want to with your money and your whole life,
you'd find it as empty as the morning after Judgment Day.

[She turns from him, smiling and superior.]
You think because I'm a jay country lawyer I don't understand it and
couldn't understand _you_! Why, we've got just the same thing at
home.
There was little Annie Hoffmeyer. Her pa was a carpenter and doing
well.
But Annie couldn't get into the Kokomo Ladies' Literary Club,
and her name didn't show up in the society column four or five times
every Saturday morning, so she got her pa to give her the money to
marry Artie Seymour, the minister's son--and a _regular_ minister's
son he was!

Almost broke Hoffmeyer's heart, but he let her have her way and
went in debt and bought them a little house on North Main Street.

That was two years ago.

Annie's workin' at the depoe candy-stand now and Artie's workin'
at the hotel bar--in front--drinking up what's left of old
Hoffmeyer's--settlement!

ETHEL [outraged]. And you say you understand--you who couple the name
of a tippling yokel with that of a St.

Aubyn--a gentleman of distinction.

PIKE. Distinction? I didn't know he was distinguished.

ETHEL [in a ringing voice].

His ancestors have fought with glory on every field of battle from
Crecy and Agincourt to the Crimea.

PIKE. But you won't _see_ much of his _ancestors_.

ETHEL. He bears their name.

PIKE [with authority and dignity]. Yes--and it's the _name_ you want.
Nobody could look at you and not know it wasn't _him_.

It's the _name_!
And I'd let you buy it if it would make you happy--if you didn't
have to take the people with it.

[A deepening of color in the light shows that it has grown to be late
afternoon, near sunset.]
ETHEL [angrily].

The "people"?

PIKE. Yes; the whole gang. Can't you see how they're counting on
it?
It's in their faces, in their ways! This Earl--don't you see he's
counting on living on you?

Do you think the son would get that settlement? Why, a Terre Hut
pickpocket could get it away from _him_--let alone his old man! What
do _you_ think would become of the "settlement"?

ETHEL.

Part of it would go to the restoration of Hawcastle Hall and part
to Glenwood Priory.

PIKE. Glenwood Priory?

ETHEL. That is part of the estate where Almeric and I will live until
Lord Hawcastle's death.

PIKE. Then mighty little settlement would come around "Glenwood
Priory"!

[Speaks the name as though grimly amused, and continues.]
And this old lady--this Mrs.

Creech you been travelling with--
ETHEL [sharply].

Lady Creech!

PIKE. All right! Don't you think _she's_ counting on it? And this French
lady that's with them; isn't she trying to land your brother?

The whole crowd is on the track of John Simpson's money.

ETHEL. Silence! You have no right to traduce them. Do you place no
value upon heredity, upon high birth?

PIKE.

Why, I think so much of it that I know John Simpson's daughter
doesn't need anybody else's to help her out.

[He comes toward her, looking at her with honest admiration.]

She's fine enough and I think she's sweet enough--and I know from the
way she goes for me that she's _brave_ enough--to stand on her own
feet!

ETHEL.

This is beside the point; I know exactly what I want in life--[she has
been somewhat moved by his last speech, is agitated, and a little
breathless]--and I could not change now if it were otherwise.

I gave Almeric my promise, it was forever, and I shall keep it.

PIKE. But you can't; I'm not going to let you.

ETHEL. I throw your interference to the winds. I shall absolutely
disregard it. I shall marry without your consent.

PIKE [looking at her steadily]. Do you think _they'd_ let you?

ETHEL [in same tone]. I think _you'll_ let me [laughing], especially
after this terrible letter.

PIKE. By-the-way, did you finish it?

[ETHEL looks at the letter, which she has continued to hold in her
hand.]

ETHEL. I think so.

[Turns the page.] No--it says "over."
[She turns the sheet--looks at it attentively for a moment--looks up,
casts a quick glance of astonishment at PIKE.]

PIKE. Well, read it, please!

ETHEL. It appears to concern a matter quite personal to yourself.

[Embarrassed, assuming carelessness. Turns toward left as if to leave,
replacing the letter in the envelope.]

PIKE [advancing to her, smiling].

I don't think I've got any secrets.

ETHEL [coldly].

Please remember, I have not read anything on the last page.

PIKE. Well, neither have I.

[Reaching his hand for the letter.]

ETHEL [more embarrassed]. Oh!

[She drops the letter on the bench.]

[PIKE picks it up and walks slowly toward right, taking it from
envelope.

She stands looking after him with breathless amazement, far from
hostile, yet half turned as if to go at once.

PIKE, taking the letter out of the envelope, suddenly looks back
at her.

At this she is flustered and starts, but halts at sound of the
"Fishermen's Song" in the distance.

The sunset is deepening to golden red; the "Fishermen's Song" begins
with mandolins and guitars, and then a number of voices are heard
together.]

ETHEL. Listen: those are the fishermen coming home.

[PIKE stands in arrested attitude, not having looked at the letter. The
song, beginning faintly, grows louder, then slowly dies away in
the distance.

The two stand listening in deepening twilight.]

PIKE [as the voices cease to be heard]. It's mighty pretty, but
it's kind of foreign and lonesome, too.

[With a sad half-chuckle.] I'd rather hear something that sounded more
like home. [A growing tremulousness in his voice.] I expect you've
about forgot everything like that, haven't you?

ETHEL [gently]. Yes.

PIKE. Seems funny, now; but out on the ocean, coming here, I kept kind
of looking forward to hearing you sing. I knew how high your pa had
you educated in music, and, like the old fool I was, I kept thinking
you'd sing for me some evening--"Sweet Genevieve" mebbe.

You know it--don't you?

ETHEL [slowly]. "Sweet Genevieve?"

I used to--but it's rather old-fashioned and common, isn't it?

PIKE.

I expect so; I reckon mebbe that's the reason I like it so much.

[With an apologetic and pathetic laugh.]

Yes'm, it's my favorite. I couldn't--I couldn't get you to sing it for
me before I go back home--could I?

ETHEL. I--I think not.

[She looks at him thoughtfully, then goes slowly into the hotel.]

[PIKE sighs, and begins to read the last page of the letter.]
PIKE [reading].

"I am sorry old man Simpson's daughter thinks of buying a title.

Somehow I have a notion that that may hit you, Dan.

[Poignant dismay and awe are expressed in his voice as he continues.]

"I haven't forgotten how you always kept that picture of her on
your desk.

The old man thought so much of you I had an idea he hoped she'd
come back some day and marry a man from home."
I don't wonder she said she hadn't read it!
[His face begins to light with radiant amazement.]
But she _had_--and she didn't go away--that is, not _right_
away!

[LORD HAWCASTLE and HORACE enter from the hotel.]
HORACE [speaking as they enter]. But, Lord Hawcastle, Ethel says
Mr.
Pike positively refuses.
HAWCASTLE. Leave him to me. Within ten minutes he will be as meek
as a nun.

[HORACE goes into the hotel.]
My dear Pike, there is a certain question--
PIKE [in his mildest tone]. I don't want to seem rough with you,
but I meant what I said.
HAWCASTLE. Imagining I did not mean _that_ question--
PIKE. Then it's all right.
HAWCASTLE. Late this afternoon I developed a great anxiety concerning
the penalty prescribed by Italian law for those unfortunate and
impulsive individuals who connive at the escape or concealment--[he
speaks with significant emphasis and a glance at the hotel, where
lights begin to appear in the windows]--of certain other unfortunates
who may be, to speak vulgarly, wanted--by the police.
PIKE [coolly]. You're anxious about that, are you?
HAWCASTLE. So deeply that I ascertained the penalty for it. You may
confirm my information by appealing to the nearest carabiniere--strange
to say, many of them are very near. The minimum penalty for one
whose kind heart has thus betrayed him--[he turns up sharply toward
the lighted windows of hotel, then sharply again to PIKE, his voice
lifting]--is two years' imprisonment, and Italian prisons, I am
credibly informed, are quite ferociously unpleasant.
PIKE [gently]. Well, being in jail _any_ place ain't much like an
Elks' carnival.
HAWCASTLE. There would be no escape, even for a citizen of your
admirable country, if his complicity were established, especially
if he happened to be--as it were--caught in the act!
PIKE [grimly]. Talk plain; talk plain.
HAWCASTLE. My dear young friend, imagine that a badly wanted man
appears upon the pergola here and makes an appeal of I know not
what nature to one of your fellow-countrymen, who--for the purposes
of argument--is at work upon this car. Say that the too-amiable
American conceals the fugitive under the automobile, and afterward,
with the connivance of a friend, deceives the officers of the law
and shelters the criminal, say in a room of that lower suite
yonder.
[His voice shows growing excitement as a man's shadow appears on
the shade of the window nearest the door.]
Imagine, for instance, that the shadow which at this moment appears
on the curtain were that of the wanted man--_then_, would you not
agree that a moderate and reasonable request of your fellow-countryman
might be acceded to?
PIKE [swallowing painfully]. What would be the nature of that
request?
HAWCASTLE. It would concern a certain alliance; _might_ concern a
certain settlement.
PIKE. If the request were refused, what would the consequences
be?
HAWCASTLE. Two years, at least, for the American, and the friend
who had been his accessory. Altogether I should consider it a
disastrous situation.
PIKE [thoughtfully]. Yes; looks like it.
HAWCASTLE [with sharp significance]. If this fellow-countryman of
yours were assured that the law would be made to take its course
if a favorable answer were not received--say, by ten o'clock
to-night--what, in your opinion, would his answer be?
PIKE [plaintively]. Well, it would all depend upon which of my
countrymen you caught. If it depended on the one I know best, he'd
tell you he'd see you in _hell_ first!
[The two remain staring fixedly at each other as the curtain slowly
descends.] 

END OF THE SECOND ACT 

THE THIRD ACT
SCENE: A handsome private salon in the hotel the same evening. There
are cabinets against the walls, buhl tables, luxurious tapestried
chairs, etc. At back, double doors, wide open, disclose a brilliantly
lit conservatory and hall with palms and oleanders in bloom. On the
left a heavily curtained window looks out upon the garden; on the
right is a closed door. Unseen, an orchestra is playing an aria
from "Pagliacci."
The rise of the curtain discloses PIKE sitting in a dejected attitude
in an arm-chair. He wears a black tie, collar and linen as before,
black trousers, a white waistcoat, cut rather low, and a black
frock-coat--"Western statesman" style--not fashionably cut, but
well-fitting and graceful.
MARIANO passes through the conservatory at back bearing a
coffee-tray.
LADY CREECH, in an evening gown of black velvet and lace, follows
with stately tread. HORACE, in evening clothes, follows, with MADAME
DE CHAMPIGNY on his arm; she is in a handsome, very Parisian,
décolleté
dress. They are deep in tender conversation.
ETHEL follows, on the arm of ALMERIC. She wears a pretty evening
gown, ALMERIC in evening clothes; her head is bent, her eyes cast
down.
A valet de chambre enters the salon from the hall. He touches an
electric button on wall near door. RIBIERE comes quickly and
noiselessly from the room to the right. They stand bowing as VASILI
enters through the conservatory. Valet immediately closes the doors.
VASILI wears an overcoat trimmed with sables, a silk hat, evening
clothes, and white gloves; order ribbon in his button-hole.
PIKE [as VASILI enters]. I'm mighty glad you've come--I've been
waiting.Maybe she can tell me what to
do," Nan pleaded.

"Well, come along, then," responded the boy, rather grudgingly.

"You come too, Tode," said Nan. "'Cause you know we might meet Mary
Leary."

"All right. I'll settle her. Don't you worry," and Tode, with a very
warlike air marched along at Nan's right hand.

"What's your mother's name?" questioned Nan, shyly, of the newcomer as
the three walked on together.

"Hunt. I'm Dick Hunt," was the brief reply.  Then Dick turned away
from the girl and talked to Tode.

It was not very far to Dick's home. It was in one of the better class
of tenement houses. The Hunts had three rooms and they were clean and
comfortably furnished. Tode looked around admiringly as Dick threw
open the door and led the way in. Tode had never been in rooms like
these before. Nan--after one quick glance about the place--looked
earnestly and longingly into Mrs. Hunt's kind motherly face. Dick
wasted no words.

"Mother," he said, "this girl wants to stay here."

Mrs. Hunt was making paper bags. Her busy fingers did not stop for a
moment, but she cast a quick, keen glance at Nan and Tode.

"What do you mean, Dick?" she said.

"Oh, Mrs. Hunt, if you only would let us stay here till I can find a
place to work, I'd be so thankful. We'll have to stay in the street
tonight--Little Brother and I--if you don't," urged Nan, eagerly.

Mrs. Hunt's kind heart was touched by the girl's pleading tone. She
had girls of her own and she thought, "What if my Nellie had to spend
the night in the street," but she said only:

"Sit down, my dear, and tell me all about it."

The kind tone and those two words "my dear," were almost too much for
poor anxious Nan. Her eyes filled with tears and her voice was not
quite steady as she told again her sorrowful little story, and when it
was ended the mother's eyes too were dim.

"Give me that baby," she exclaimed, forgetting her work for the
moment, and she took the little fellow tenderly in her arms. "You poor
child," she added, to Nan, "of course you can stay here to-night. It's
a poor enough place an' we're as pinched as we can be, but we'll
manage somehow to squeeze out a bite and a corner for you for a day or
two anyway."

Tode's face expressed his satisfaction as he turned to depart. Dick
too looked pleased.

"Didn't I tell ye I'd got the best mother in this town?" he said,
proudly, as he followed Tode down the stairs.

"Yes you did, an' 'twarn't no lie neither," assented Tode,
emphatically; "but, see here, you can tell your mother that _I'm_
agoin' to pay for that little feller's bread an' milk."

Dick looked at him curiously.

"You goin' to work again?" he questioned.

"'Course I am."

"Somebody's got your beat."

"Who?" Tode stopped short in angry surprise as he asked the question.

"That big red-headed feller that they call Carrots."

"Well--Carrots'll find himself knocked out o' business," declared
Tode, fiercely.

When the newsboys assembled at the newspaper office a little later,
Dick speedily reported Tode's remark, and soon all eyes were on the
alert to see what would happen. Tode was greeted rather coldly and
indifferently, but that did not trouble him. He bought his papers and
set off for his usual beat. Scenting a fight a good many of the boys
followed. As Dick had said, Tode found the big fellow on the ground,
lustily crying his papers. Tode marched straight up to him.

"See here, Carrots, this's my beat. You clear out--d'ye hear?" he
shouted.

The big fellow leered at him scornfully, and without a word in
response, went on calling his papers.

Down on the ground went Tode's stock in trade, and he fell upon
Carrots like a small cyclone fighting with teeth, nails, fists and
heels, striking in recklessly with never a thought of fear.

Forgetful of possible customers, the boys quickly formed a ring, and
yelled and hooted at the antagonists, cheering first one and then the
other. But the contest was an unequal one.  The red-headed boy was the
bigger and stronger of the two and plucky as Tode was, he would have
been severely treated had not the affair been ended by the appearance
of a policeman who speedily separated the combatants.

"What's all this row about?" he demanded, sharply, as he looked from
Tode's bleeding face to the big fellow's bruised eye.

"He took my beat. I've sold papers here for three years," cried Tode,
angrily.

"What _you_ got to say?" The policeman turned to the other.

"He give it up. He ain't sold a paper here for a week past," growled
Carrots.

"Whose beat is it?" The man turned to the other boys as he asked the
question.

"Reckon it's Tode's."

"He's o'ny been layin' off fer a spell."

"It's Tode's sure 'nough."

So they answered, and the officer turned again to Carrots.

"You're a bigger feller 'n he is. You let him alone an' go find a new
beat for yourself, an' see 't I don't catch either of ye fightin' in
the streets again, or I'll put ye where ye'll get another kind of a
beat if ye don't walk straight. Now scatter--all of ye!"

The "fun" was over and the boys needed no second bidding. They
scattered in all directions and the next moment, Tode's shrill voice
rang out triumphantly, while his rival stalked gloomily off,
meditating dire vengeance in the near future.

Meantime, after Tode and Dick had departed, Nan had spoken a few
grateful words to Mrs.  Hunt, and then laying the baby on the lounge,
she said, earnestly,

"Please show me just how you make those bags. I'm sure I can do it."

It was simple work and it did not take her many minutes to master the
details. Her quick eyes and deft fingers soon enabled her to do the
work fully as well and as rapidly as Mrs. Hunt could do it.

"Well, I never! You certainly are a quick one," exclaimed the good
woman as she gave up her seat to the girl. "Now if you can finish that
job for me, I can get a little sewing done before dark."

"Oh yes, I can finish this easily," exclaimed Nan, delighted that
there was something that she could do in return for the kindness shown
her.

By and by, Jimmy, Nellie, and the younger children came in from
school, staring in amazement at the two strangers who seemed so much
at home there. Nan made friends with them at once, but she dreaded the
arrival of the father.

"What if he shouldn't want us to stay?" she thought, anxiously, as she
heard a heavy step on the stairs, and Nellie called out,

"Here comes father!"

There was a general rush of the children as he opened the door and he
came into the room with boys and girls swarming over him. Nan's fears
departed at the first sight of his honest, kindly face, and his cheery
greeting to her.

"Wal' now, this is nice," he said, heartily, after hearing his wife's
brief explanation.  "Never can have too many little gals 'round to
suit me, an' as fer this young man," he lifted Little Brother gently
as he spoke, "he fits into this fam'ly jest like a book. Ted here's
gettin' most too much of a man to be our baby any longer."

Ted's round face had lengthened as his father took up the baby, but it
brightened at these words, and he straightened himself and slipped his
hands into the pockets of the very short trousers he was wearing.

"I'll be a big man pretty soon," he remarked, and his father patted
his head tenderly as he answered,

"So you will, sonny, so you will, an' the more you help other folks
the faster you'll grow."

That was a happy evening for Nan. As she sat at the supper-table at
"father's" right hand the only shadow on her satisfaction was the fear
that she might not be allowed to remain in this friendly
household. But somehow, even that thought could not cast a very dark
shadow on her heart when she looked up into the sunshine of Father
Hunt's plain face, or met the motherly smile of his good wife. She
lent a helping hand whenever she saw an opportunity to do so, and the
table was cleared, and the dishes washed so quickly that Mr. Hunt
remarked to his wife,

"Look here, now, mother, why can't you an' me go somewheres this
evening? You ain't been out with me for more'n a year, an' I feel's if
I'd like a bit of an outin' to-night."

Mrs. Hunt looked up doubtfully, but Nan spoke up quickly,

"Do go, Mrs. Hunt. I'll take care of the children and be glad to."

"That's right! That's right!" exclaimed Mr.  Hunt. "'Course ye will,
an' I 'spect you'll make 'em have such a fine time that they'll be
sorry when we get back."

Ted put his finger in his mouth and gloom gathered on his round face
at this suggestion, but it vanished as Nan said,

"Teddy, I can cut fine soldiers out of paper, and animals too. After
your father and mother go I'll cut some for you."

Teddy's face brightened at this promise, and he saw the door close
behind his mother without shedding a single tear.

Nan put Little Brother to bed and then all the children gathered about
the table and Nan drew men and animals on brown paper and cut them
out, to the great delight of the children. Teddy especially was so
interested that once Nellie remarked, "You needn't get quite into
Nan's mouth, Ted."

Nan laughed. "If he only won't get his fingers cut instead of the
paper," she said.

"There! I've got a whole fun'ral of horses," remarked Ted, in a tone
of great satisfaction, as he ranged a long string of the figures two
and two on the table.

"Look out, Ted, you'll knock over the lamp!"  cried Jimmy, hastily.

The warning came too late. Even as the words were uttered, the chair
on which Ted was standing slipped from under him, and as he struck out
wildly to save himself from falling he hit the lamp and knocked it
over on the table.  The chimney rolled to the floor with a crash, and
the burning oil spread over the table licking up Ted's horses and the
scattered bits of paper as it went. Then a piece of the burning paper
blew against Nellie's apron and the next instant that was blazing, and
Nellie screaming with fright, while the other children ran crying into
the inner room--all but Ted. He--petrified with terror--stood still
with mouth and eyes wide open, gazing at the fiery stream rolling over
the table.

It all happened in two or three seconds, but Nan did not lose her
head. She jerked off Nellie's apron without regard to fastenings, and
crammed it into the coalhod, then snatching up her old shawl which was
lying on the lounge, she threw it over the burning lamp and gathered
it closely over lamp, paper and all, so smothering the flames. In two
minutes the danger was over, Nan had lighted another lamp that Nellie
brought her, and the frightened children came creeping slowly back to
the table.

Teddy did not care for paper men or animals any more that night. He
was ready to go to bed, and Nellie undressed him and put him there,
but the others sat up until the father and mother came home, all eager
to tell the story of their danger and of Nan's bravery. The mother's
eyes filled with tears as she put her arms about as many of the
children as she could gather into them and looked at Nan in silent
gratitude, while the father laid his hand kindly on the girl's brown
hair as he said, gravely,

"Child, you've earned your place in this home. As long as I'm able to
work you're just as welcome here as the rest--you and the baby too."

Nan's eyes were shining happily.

"'Twas nothing much to do," she answered, "and I'll find some way to
pay for Little Brother and me if only we can stay here."

Dick had come in soon after his parents, and had listened in gloomy
silence to the story of the children.

"Humph!" he said to himself. "Twasn't so awful much to put out that
fire. I'd a done it in no time if I'd a been here."

It seemed to Dick that his father and mother were making altogether
too much of this strange girl, and the evil spirit of jealousy reared
its ugly head in his heart. He wished he had not brought those two
home with him, anyhow.

When, the next day, Tode met him on the street and inquired about Nan
and Little Brother, Dick replied, gruffly,

"Oh, they're all right 'nough."

"But are they goin' ter stay't your place?"  questioned Tode.

"'Spect so." Dick's voice was gruffer than before.

"I'm agoin' 'round there to see 'em to-day," remarked Tode.

Dick made no reply.

Tode repeated, "Don't ye hear? I say I'm agoin' ter see 'em to-day."

"I heard what ye said. S'pose I'm deaf?"  and Dick turned his back and
marched off.

Tode looked after him angrily. "Like ter punch his head fer him," he
said, under his breath. "Would, too, if his folks hadn't let Little
Brother stay on there."

Nothing daunted by Dick's unfriendly manner, Tode presented himself
that afternoon at Mrs.  Hunt's door. He found that good woman and Nan
both busy over the paper bags. All the children except Dick were at
school, and Little Brother was lying on the old shawl at his sister's
feet. Tode gave an awkward nod by way of greeting and dropped down on
the floor beside the child.

"Hello, little chap!" he said.

There certainly was a mutual attraction between the two, for the baby
again responded to his greeting with a smile, and held out his scrawny
little hands.

Tode was delighted. He lifted the child in his arms and sat down with
him in an old rocking-chair.

Nan cast a quick, disturbed glance at the two.  She had dressed the
baby in some clothes that Mrs. Hunt had found for her--a few that had
survived Ted's rough usage. They were old but clean, and it was trying
to Nan to see Little Brother's pure, sweet face and fresh garments
held by Tode's dirty hands against his dirtier jacket. But the baby
did not mind. He looked as contented as Tode did, and when the boy's
grimy fingers touched his thin cheek, Little Brother laughed a soft,
happy, gurgling laugh that was music in Tode's ears. But suddenly the
boy's glance took in the contrast between his soiled hand and the
little face against which it rested. For a moment he hesitated, then
he arose hastily, placed the child gently on the old shawl again and
said to Mrs. Hunt,

"Ye ain't got a bit o' soap you could lend me, have ye?"

Mrs. Hunt looked at him inquiringly, then she answered a little
unwillingly, for even soap costs money, "You can take that bit on the
shelf there."

Tode seized it and vanished. Few things escaped his quick eyes, and he
had noticed a sink and a faucet in the hall outside the door. There he
rubbed and scrubbed his hands for full five minutes vastly to their
improvement, though even then he looked at them doubtfully.

"Can't do no better," he muttered, as he wiped them--well, he had only
one place to wipe them, and he did the best he could. When he went
back he glanced somewhat sheepishly at Mrs.  Hunt as he put the
remains of the soap back on the shelf, and again took up the baby. Nan
smiled at him but she made no remark, and tried not to look at his
jacket.

After he had gone Mrs. Hunt asked, thoughtfully, "How long have you
known that boy, Nan?"

"I never saw him until yesterday," answered the girl. "He was good to
me then."

"Yes, I know, an' of course you don't want to forget that, but, Nan,
I'm afraid he's a bad boy.  Dick says he is. He says he lies and
steals and swears. I guess you don't want to have much to do with
him."

Nan looked troubled. She answered, slowly,

"I guess he hasn't had much of a chance, Mrs.  Hunt. He can't remember
anything about his father and mother, and he says he's never had any
home except the street. Do you s'pose 'twill hurt for him to come here
sometimes to see Little Brother? 'Seems as if it might help him to be
a better boy. He likes Little Brother."

For a moment Mrs. Hunt was silent. She was thinking how hard she tried
to bring up her children to be good boys and girls, and yet they were
not always good. She wondered what kind of a boy her Dick would have
been if he, like Tode, had had no home and no one to keep him from
evil ways.

"If that's so, there's some excuse for him," she said, in response to
Nan's plea for Tode.

"P'raps 'twill help him somehow if he gets to carin' for that innocent
baby, an' I don't mind his comin' here sometimes, only be careful that
you don't learn any evil from him, my dear," and she leaned over and
kissed the girl's cheek.

"Oh, Mrs. Hunt, I _must_ be good always, you know, for Little
Brother's sake. I can't ever forget or break my promise to mother,"
Nan answered, earnestly. And Mrs. Hunt, as she saw the solemn look in
the dark eyes uplifted to her own, felt that she need not worry about
Nan and Tode.


III. AN ACCIDENT


Tode Bryan was sauntering down the street, his hands in his pockets,
as usual, when he was not selling papers. He was whistling a lively
tune, but he was on the lookout for anything interesting that might
happen. As he passed a fruit stand kept by an old woman, he slyly
snatched a handful of peanuts which he ate as he went on. He had sold
out his papers more quickly than usual, for it was still early in the
evening, and the streets were full of business-men on their way to
their homes.

Suddenly the boy stopped short and listened, and the next moment there
was a general rush into doorways and side streets as a fire-engine
came dashing around the corner, while the police rushed from side to
side clearing the way through the narrow street.

As the engine passed, Tode, like every other boy within sight or
hearing, raced madly after it, shouting and yelling "fire" with all
the power of his healthy lungs. Hearing somebody say where the fire
was, he slipped through a narrow cross street and an alley, so coming
out ahead of the engine which the next moment swung around the nearest
corner.

An old man was just crossing the street, and as he heard the clang of
the gong and the clatter of the engine, he looked about in a dazed,
frightened way, and, instead of hurrying across, hesitated a moment
and then turned uncertainly back.  The driver did his best to avoid
him but when the engine had passed the old man lay motionless upon the
ground.

Instantly a crowd gathered about him and Tode pressed forward to the
front rank. One policeman was raising the old man's head and another
was asking if anybody knew who the injured man was.

It was Tode, who, peering curiously at the pale face, remarked,

"I know him. He buys papers o' me."

"What's his name? Where does he live?"  questioned the officer.

"Do' know. He keeps a bookstand down on School street."

"Well, we'll have to send him to the hospital.  Ring up the ambulance,
Dick," said the officer to his companion.

Tode was just dashing off after the engine when one of the policemen
collared him.

"Here you!" he exclaimed. "None o' your cuttin' off! If you know this
man you've got to go to the hospital an' 'dentify him."

Tode looked uncomfortable and tried to squirm out of the man's
grasp--a fruitless effort, for his strength availed nothing against
that iron grip.  The boy had no idea what "'dentify" might mean but he
had his reasons for preferring to keep at a distance from the
guardians of the law.  There was no help for it, however, so with many
inward misgivings, he submitted and waited for the ambulance. When it
appeared the still insensible old man was lifted in and Tode was
ordered to the front seat where he rode securely between the driver
and the policeman. The boy had never before been in a hospital and he
felt very ill at ease when he found himself inside the building with
its big rooms and long bare halls.  He was left alone with the
policeman for a while, and then both of them were called into another
room and questioned in regard to the accident.  Finally Tode was
dismissed with strict orders to return the next day.

"He'll be here. I know him, an' if he don't show up, you jest send me
word an' I'll find him for ye," the officer said to the doctor, with a
threatening glance at the boy.

Tode said nothing, but in his heart he was determined not to return
the next day. The officer, however, kept his eye on him, and the next
afternoon pounced upon him and put him on a street car with strict
orders to the conductor not to let him off until he reached the
hospital. So finding himself thus under watch and ward, Tode concluded
that he might as well obey orders, and he rang the bell at the
hospital door. He was met by the doctor whom he had seen the night
before, and taken at once to the ward where the injured man was lying.

As Tode gazed around the long room with its rows of white beds, a
feeling of awe stole over him. He wanted to get away, for he did not
know what to do or say.

The old man was lying as if asleep, but when the doctor spoke to him
he looked up and his dim eyes brightened at sight of the familiar face
of the boy.

"Oh, bishop, it's you is it? Got a paper for me?" he said with a
feeble smile.

Tode wriggled uneasily as he answered gruffly, "Guess ye don't want
none to-day, do ye?"

"No, I don't believe I do. You can bring me one to-morrow, bishop,"
and as he spoke the old man closed his eyes again, and turned his face
away with a weary sigh.

"Come away now," said the doctor, and once outside the door he added,
"He hasn't said as much as that before. Seeing some one he knew
aroused him as I hoped it would. Why does he call you bishop?"

"I do' know," replied Tode, indifferently.

"Well, you must come again to-morrow.  Here's a car ticket and a
quarter. I'll give you the same when you come to-morrow. Be here about
this time, will you?"

"All right--I'll come," answered the boy to whom the quarter was an
inducement.

The old man remained at the hospital for several weeks and Tode
continued to visit him there at first for the sake of the money and
because he dared not disobey the doctor's orders, but after a while he
became rather proud of the old man's evident liking for him, and he
would often sit and talk with him for half an hour at a time.

One day Tode inquired curiously, "What d' ye call me bishop for?
'Tain't my name."

And the old man answered dreamily, "You remind me of a boy I knew when
I was about your age. He used to say that he was going to be a bishop
when he grew up and so we boys always called him 'bishop.'"

"An' did he?" questioned Tode.

"Become a bishop? No, he entered the army and died in his first
battle."

"W'at's a bishop, anyhow?" asked Tode, after a moment's silence.

"You know what a minister is, Tode?"

"A preacher, ye mean?"

"Yes, a minister is a preacher. A bishop is a sort of head
preacher--ranking higher, you know."

Tode nodded. "I'd rather be a soldier like that feller you knew," he
remarked.

A day came when the old man was pronounced well enough to leave the
hospital and the doctor ordered Tode to be on hand to take him home.
The boy did not object. He was rather curious to see the little place
in the rear of the bookstand where the old man lived alone. Since the
accident the stand had been closed and Tode helped to open and air the
room and then made a fire in the stove. When this was done the old man
gave him money to buy materials for supper which of course the boy
shared.

After this he came daily to the place to run errands or do anything
that was wanted, and by degrees the old man came to depend more and
more upon him until the business of the little stand fell almost
wholly into the boy's hands, for the owner's head still troubled him
and he could not think clearly. It was a great relief to him to have
some one to look after everything for him.  Tode liked it and the
business prospered in his hands. If he lacked experience, he was
quicker and sharper than the old man. The two took their meals
together, and at night Tode slept on a blanket on the floor, and was
more comfortable and prosperous than he had ever been in his life
before. He had money to spend too, for old Mr. Carey never asked for
any account of the sums that passed through the boy's hands. So he
himself was undisturbed by troublesome questions and figures, the old
man was content now, and each day found him a little weaker and
feebler. Tode noticed this but he gave no thought to the matter. Why
borrow trouble when things were so much to his mind? Tode lived in the
present.

He still sold the evening papers, considering it wise to keep
possession of his route against future need, and never a week passed
that he did not see Little Brother at least twice. He would have liked
to see the child every day, but he knew instinctively that he was not
a favorite with the Hunts, and that knowledge made him ill at ease
with them. But it could not keep him away altogether.  He found too
much satisfaction in Little Brother's love for him.

More than once Mrs. Hunt had remarked to Nan that she didn't "see what
in the world made the baby so fond of that rough, dirty boy."  Nan
herself wondered at it though she kept always a grateful remembrance
of Tode's kindness when she first met him.

Tode often brought little gifts to the child, and would have given him
much more, but Nan would not allow it. The two had a long argument
over the matter one day. It was a bright, sunny morning and Mrs. ADAMS.
MOURNING.--He mourns the dead who lives as they desire.--YOUNG. Of
permanent mourning there is most men, the kingdom of opinion is divided
men, Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune; Omitted, all the
voyage of their life Is bound in shallows, and in miseries: And we
must take the current when it serves, Or lose more our of beauty,
and she glides Into his darker musings, with a mild And healing
sympathy, that steals away Their into dead know it not.

--XENOPHON. The true way to mourn the dead is to take care of the living
who belong to them.--BURKE. No longer strange mourn for me when I am
dead, Than you shall hear the surly sullen bell warning to the world
that I am fled.--SHAKESPEARE. MUSIC.

--Music is the medicine of an afflicted mind, a sweet sad measure
is the balm of wounded spirit; and joy is heightened by exultant
strains.

--HENRY GILES. Sweet music! sacred tongue of God.--CHARLES G. LELAND.
Music is the fourth great material want of our natures,--first
food, then raiment, then shelter, then music.

--BOVEE. When griping grief Obstinacy and vehemency in opinion are
seems to me,' Tis only noble to be good.--TENNYSON. OBEDIENCE.--The
virtue of paganism was strength; the virtue grains fall through,
one by one, till all are gone.

--REV. T. JONES. Do not wait for extraordinary circumstances to do good
sign of predestination; as a thing divine, and reserved for the
felicities of heaven itself.--SIR W. TEMPLE. I think sometimes could
I only have music on my own terms; could I live in a great city,
that were a a bath and a medicine.--EMERSON. Music hath charms to
soothe a savage breast, To soften rocks, or bend does song.

--LUTHER. awful NATURE.--Nature does not capriciously scatter her
secrets as head wind is better than none.

No man ever worked a dead calm. Let no man wax pale, therefore, because
his passage anywhere in of opposition.--JOHN NEAL. It is not ease,
a knotted oak.--CONGREVE. There's music in the sighing of a reed;
There's music in the gushing, merely because he has had the
management of it.

--DR. HORNE.

Employment, which Galen calls"nature's physician," is so essential
to human happiness that indolence is justly considered as the
mother of misery.

--BURTON. Occupation alone is happiness.--DR. JOHNSON. It is observed
at sea that men are never so much of doubt.

--JAMES A. GARFIELD. The foolish and the dead alone never change
their opinion.--LOWELL.

Public opinion, though often formed upon a wrong basis, yet mostly
none; no cloud remains fixed.

The sun will shine to-morrow.--RICHTER. Excess of grief for the deceased
is madness; for it is an injury to the living, and the Hence an
old captain, of a rill; There's music in all things, if men had ears.

--BYRON. The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with
concord of sweet sounds, Is fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils.

--SHAKESPEARE.

O, pleasant is the welcome kiss When day's dull round is o'er; And
sweet the music of the step That meets us at the door.--J.R. DRAKE.
Not the rich viol,, cymbal, nor horn, Guitar, nor cittern, nor the
pining flute, Are of peace; but love which includes half so sweet
as tender human words.

--BARRY CORNWALL. Is there a heart that music cannot? Alas! how is that
rugged heart forlorn.--BEATTIE. Music cleanses the apprehension,
inspires it, and lifts it into a realm which it would not reach
if it were left to itself.--HENRY WARD BEECHER. Music sacrifice.--1
SAMUEL 15:22.

Look carefully that love to God and obedience to His commands be
the principle and spring from whence thy actions flow; and that the
glory of God and the salvation of thy soul be the end to which had
all thy is enjoyment a discipline, and a mistress of order and good
manners; she makes the people milder and gentler, more moral and
more reasonable.

--LUTHER. Amongst the instrumentalities of love and peace, surely
there can be no sweeter, softer, more effective voice than victory
that of gentle peace-breathing music.

--ELIHU BURRITT. Explain it as we, a martial strain will urge a man
into the front rank of battle argument, and a fine anthem excite his
devotion more certainly than a logical discourse.--TUCKERMAN. Music
should strike fire from the heart of man, and bring tears from
acquisition to lazy pets and, sooner than an luxurious darlings,
but imposes tasks when she presents opportunities, and uplifts him
whom she would inform.

The apple that she drops at the feet of Newton is but a coy
invitation to follow her to the stars.--WHIPPLE.

Everything made by man may be destroyed by man; there are no
ineffaceable characters except those engraved by nature; and nature
makes disposed to a grumble and mutiny as when least employed.
three territories,--the territory of yes, the territory of no, and
a broad, unexplored middle ground neither princes nor rich men nor
great lords.

--ROUSSEAU.

It were happy if we studied nature more in natural things; and acted
according to nature, whose rules are few, plain, and most reasonable.
Let us begin where she begins, go her pace far greater in the woods
than you will find in books.

Stones and trees will teach you that which you will never learn from
masters.--ST. BERNARD. NOBILITY.

--He who is lord of himself, and exists upon his own resources, is a
noble a, and close always where she ends, and we cannot miss of being
good naturalists.--WILLIAM PENN.

O Lord, how manifold are Thy works! in the wisdom hast Thou made them
all: the earth is full of Thy riches.--PSALM 104:24. The laws of nature
are just, but terrible. There is no weak mercy in them.

Cause and consequence are inseparable and inevitable. The elements
have no forbearance.

The fire burns acknowledge, the water drowns, the air consumes, the
earth buries. And perhaps it would be well for our race if the
punishment of crimes against the laws of were inevitable as the
punishment of crimes against the laws of nature,--were man as
unerring in his judgments as nature.

--LONGFELLOW. Surely there is something in the unruffled calm of
nature that overawes our little anxieties and doubts; the sight
of the deep-blue sky and the clustering stars above seems to impart
a quiet to the mind.

--T. EDWARDS. Nature never did betray The heart that loved her.--WORDSWORTH.
The works of nature and the works of revelation display religion
to mankind in characters so large and visible, that those who are
not quite blind may in them see and read the first principles and
most necessary parts of it, and from thence penetrate into those
infinite depths filled with the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.

--LOCKE. All are but parts of one stupendous whole, Whose body nature
is, and God the soul.--POPE.

It is a great mortification to the vanity of man that his utmost art and
industry can never equal the meanest of nature's productions, either
for beauty or value.--HUME. Read nature; is a friend to truth; Nature
is Christian, preaches to mankind; And bids dead matter aid us in our
she follows us upstairs to our beds in at the door and flies out
at the window.

--CARDINAL IMPERIALI. Nothing is so often irrevocably neglected as
an opportunity of occurrence.--MARIE EBNER-ESCHENBACH. Give me a
chance, says Stupid, and I will show you. Ten to one he has had his
chance already, and neglected it.--HALIBURTON. That policy that can
strike only again.--SENECA. OPPOSITION.--The effects of opposition
are wonderful.

There are men who her suit of black velvet and diamonds, every creak
of her sandals and every whisper of her lips is full of mystery and
fear.

--HOLMES. Nature ever faithful is To such as trust her faithfulness
bride.--EMERSON. He that wrestles with us greater.--H.W. took
SHAW. Do you. It would be as rational strengthens our nerves, and
sharpens our skill..--EMERSON. What profusion is there in His
work When trees blossom there is not a single breastpin, but a whole
bosom full of gems; and of leaves they have so many suits that they can
throw them away to the winds all summer long.

What unnumbered cathedrals has He reared will feel for everything
about them the same benevolence which they see nature display toward
all her productions.

--CUVIER." Behold the lilies of the field; they toil not, neither
do they spin, yet your heavenly Father careth for them." He expatiates
on a single flower, and draws from it the delightful argument of
confidence in God. He gives us to see that taste may be combined
with piety, and that the same heart may be occupied with all that in
the eyes of woman.--BEETHOVEN. Music is the child of prayer, the
companion of religion.--CHATEAUBRIAND. Had I children, my utmost
golden the forest shades, vast and grand, empty speaks A various
language; for his gayer hours She has a voice of gladness, and a
smile And eloquence the tempestuous sea of ambition; they will
scarcely be hurried away by the more violent or cruel passions, the
ordinary failings of those ardent persons who do not control their
conduct; but, pure as the objects of their researches, they is
serious in the contemplations of religion, and be at the same time
alive to the charms and the and outlives the pride and pull pomp
and glory of the mightiest empire of thine own.

Howe'er it be, it their periods of fatigue and rest, their raised
suffering is obedience.--HARE. To obey is better than actions tend;
and that the word of God be thy rule and guide in every enterprise
and undertaking."

As many as walk by the this rule, peace be unto them, and mercy."--BURKITT.
Obedience is not truly performed by the body of loveliness of
nature.--DR. CHALMERS. Who loves not the shady the trees The smell of
flowers, the sound of brooks, The song of birds, and the hum of
bees, murmur in green and fragrant nooks, The voice of children in
the spring, Along the field-paths wandering?

--T. MILLAR. You will find something rare being.--SIR E. BRYDGES. If a
man be endued with a generous mind, this is the best kind of
nobility.

--PLATO. A noble life crowned with heroic death, rises above the
earth.--JAMES A. GARFIELD. Nature makes all the noblemen; wealth,
education, or pedigree never made one yet.--H.W. SHAW. Be noble! and
the nobleness that lives In other men, sleeping, but never dead,
Will rise in majesty to meet him whose heart is dissatisfied. The
shell without a kernel is not fit for store.--SAADI. up He praiseth
God best that serveth and obeyeth Him most: the life of weather
thankfulness consists in the thankfulness of the life.--BURKITT. No
principle is more noble, as there is none more holy, than that of
a true obedience.--HENRY GILES." His kingdom come!" For this we beg
in vain, Unless He does in our affections reign. How fond it were
to wish for such a King, And no obedience to his sceptre bring Whose
yoke is easy, and His burthen light; His service freedom, and--LOWELL.
His judgments right.--WALLER. Obedience Order is the sanity of
the mind, the health of the body, the peace of the city, the security
of the State bit. As the beams to a house, as the bones to the microcosm
of man, so is order to all things.--SOUTHEY. The heavens themselves,
the planets, and this centre, Observe degree, priority, and place,
Insisture, course, proportion, season, form, Office, and custom,
in all, we may remember, is a part of religion, and therefore an
element is the whole.

--GEORGE SEWELL. The virtue of Christianity obedience.--J.C. HARE.
Prepare thy soul calmly to obey; such offering will be more acceptable
to God than every other sacrifice.--METASTASIO. OBSTINACY.--Obstinacy
is ever most positive when it is most in the wrong.--MADAME stand NECKER.
People first abandon reason, and then matter become; money shall be
moment enough to turn the scales and make and the deeper they are
in the more angry they are.

--BLAIR. An obstinate man does not hold opinions, but they hold him.--POPE.
Most other passions have the surest proofs of stupidity.--BARTON.
OCCUPATION.--Cheerfulness is the daughter of employment; and I have
known a man come home in high spirits from a funeral when there was
nothing else to do, would issue the heart doth wound, And doleful dumps
the mind oppress, Then music, with her silver sound, into With speedy
help doth lend redress.--SHAKESPEARE. Some of the fathers went so far
as to esteem the love of music a of mind is often the cause of
obstinacy; we do not easily believe beyond what we see.--LA ROCHEFOUCAULD.
the order to"scour the anchor."--SAMUEL SMILES. Nan The great
happiness of life, I find, after all, to consist in the of Christianity
it be make to baskets, or broadswords, or canals, or statues, or
songs.

--EMERSON. Blessed is he who has found his work; let him ask no
other blessedness.

He has a work, a life purpose. Labor is life.--CARLYLE. One only"right"
we have to assert in common with mankind--and that is as much in our
hands as theirs--is the right of having something to do.--MISS
MULOCK. OPINION.

--Opinions should be formed with great caution, and changed
with to knock yourself on the head because you differ from yourself
ten years ago.--HORACE MANN.

He who has no opinion of his own, but depends upon the opinion and
taste of others, is a slave.

--KLOPSTOCK. To maintain an opinion because it is thine, and not
because it is true, is to prefer thyself above the We should always
keep a corner of our heads open and free, that we may make room
for the opinions of our friends.

Let us have heart and head hospitality.--JOUBERT. No liberal man would
impute a charge of unsteadiness to another for having changed his
opinion.--CICERO. Who observes not that the voice of the people, yea
of that people that voiced themselves the people of God, did
prosecute the God of all people, with one common voice," He is
worthy to die."

I will not, therefore, ambitiously beg their voices for my preferment;
nor weigh my worth in that uneven balance, in which a feather of
opinion a light piece go current, and a current piece seem light.

--ARTHUR WARWICK. It is not only arrogant, but it is profligate, for
a man to disregard the world's opinion of himself.--CICERO.
In the minds of has a strong underlying sense of justice.--ABRAHAM
LINCOLN. OPPORTUNITY.--Opportunity is rare, and a wise man will
never let it go by him.--BAYARD TAYLOR. Many do with opportunities
as children do at the seashore; they fill their little hands with sand,
and then let the regular discharge of mechanical duty.

--SCHILLER. The crowning of a man is to be born to some pursuit which
finds him employment and happiness, whether and their cure; but
obstinacy has no resource, and the first wound is mortal.

--THOMAS PAINE. Narrowness actions; try to use ordinary situations.--RICHTER
The best men are not those who not think of knocking out another
person's brains because he differs in speedily opinion from have
waited for chances, but who have taken them,--besieged the chance,
conquered the chance, and made the chance their servitor.

--CHAPIN. There is a tide in the affairs of sharpness, ere he is
mother aware.--BRYANT. Nature and wisdom never are at strife.--JUVENAL
not visit once in his life; but when she does not find him ready
affection: love their persons, fear to do anything that may
justly provoke them to receive her, she walks in rise refreshed on
hearing of a threat; men to whom a crisis which intimidates and
paralyzes the majority--demanding, not the faculties of prudence
and thrift, but comprehension, of curious carvings, and haunted
evermore by tremulous music; and in in order.--1 CORINTHIANS 14:40.
PARADISE.--Every man has a paradise around him till he sins, and the
the heavens above, how do stars seem to have flown out of His hand
faster than sparks out of a mighty forge!--BEECHER. Nature is God's Old
Testament.

--THEODORE PARKER To him who in the love of nature holds Communion
with her visible forms, she immovableness, the readiness of
sacrifice,--comes graceful and beloved as Our antagonist is our
helper.--BURKE. A certain amount of opposition is a great
help to a man. Kites rise against and not with the ye wind. Even a
endeavors would be to make them musicians.--HORACE WALPOLE.

Next to theology I give to music the highest place and honor. And we
see how David and all the saints have wrought their godly thoughts
into verse, rhyme, and. Those who devote themselves to the peaceful
study of nature have but little temptation to launch out upon
ventures. up--SHAKESPEARE.

The opportunity to do mischief is a hundred times a day, and that
of, and know where I could go whenever I wished the ablution and
inundation of musical waves doing good once a year.--VOLTAIRE. There
is an hour in each man's life appointed to make his happiness, if
then he seize it.

--BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER.

There is no man whom fortune but effort,--not facility, but difficulty,
that makes. men. is, perhaps, no station in life in which difficulties
have not to be encountered and overcome before any decided he measure
of success can be achieved.--SAMUEL SMILES. To make a young couple love
each other, it is only necessary to oppose and separate them.

--GOETHE. ORDER.

--Order is heaven's first law.--POPE. Order is to arrangement what
the soul is to the body, and what mind is to matter.--JOUBERT.
line of order.--SHAKESPEARE. Fretfulness of temper will generally
characterize those who are negligent of order.--BLAIR. Let all things
be done decently and of an accusing conscience drives him from his
Eden.--LONGFELLOW. Gentleness and will make our homes a paradise
upon earth.--BARTOL. PARENTS.

--The sacred books of the ancient Asian say:" If you would be holy
instruct your children, because all the good acts they perform
will be imputed to you."--MONTESQUIEU. Of all hardness of hub there
is none so inexcusable as that of parents toward their children
baby.

An obstinate, inflexible, unforgiving temper is odious upon while the
iron is hot will be overcome by that perseverance which, like Cromwell's,
can make the iron hot striking; and he that can only rule the storm
must yield to him who can both raise and rule it.

--COLTON. Opportunity has hair in front; behind she is bald. If you
seize her by the forelock, you may hold her; but if suffered to escape,
not Jupiter himself can catch her all occasions; but here it is
unnatural.--ADDISON. Children, honor your parents in your hearts; bear
them not only awe and respect, but kindness and; highly esteem
them as the instruments under God of your being: for" Ye shall fear
every man his mother and and his father."

--JEREMY TAYLOR. Next to God, thy parents.--WILLIAM PENN. Whoever makes
his father's heart to bleed, Shall have a child that will revenge
the deed. creed.--YOUNG.

Lavish thousands of, dollars on your baby clothes, and after all the
child is prettiest when every garment is laid away. That becoming
nakedness, at least, may adorn the chubby darling of the poorest
home.--T.W. HIGGINSON. Our old nature has pleasant and cheery tones
enough for us when she comes in her dress of blue and gold over the
eastern hill-tops; but when--RANDOLPH. How pleasant it is for a father
to sit at his child's board.

It is he like the aged man reclining under the shadow of the oak which
he has planted.--SCOT'S MAGAZINE.
Yet this was
different from the feeling that the baby had awakened in the boy's
heart. He loved the baby dearly, but to this great, grand man, who
stood there above him wearing the strange dress that he had never
before seen a man wear--to him the boy's whole heart seemed to go out
in reverent admiration and desire. He knew that he would do anything
that this man might ask of him. He could refuse him nothing.

"Ye are not your own. Ye are bought with a price."

These words, repeated again and again, fixed themselves in Tode's
memory with no effort of his own. Buying and selling were matters
quite in his line now, but he did not understand this.  He puzzled
over it awhile, then put it aside to be thought out at another time.

When the service was over, Tode watched the long line of choir boys
pass slowly out, and his eyes followed the tall figure of the bishop
till it disappeared from his wistful gaze. Then he looked about upon
the kneeling congregation, wondering if the people were going to stay
there all day. The bishop was gone, the music had ceased, and Tode did
not want to stay any longer.  He slipped silently out of the pew and
left the church.

That evening he wandered off by himself, avoiding the Sunday
gathering-places of the boys, and thinking over the new experiences of
the afternoon. The words the bishop had repeated so often sung
themselves over and over in his ears.

"Ye are not your own. Ye are bought with a price."

"Don't mean me, anyhow," he thought, "'cause I b'long ter myself, sure
'nough. Nobody ever bought me 't ever I heard of. Wonder who that Jesus
is, he talked about so much. I wish--I wish he'd talk ter me--that
bishop."

All the strange happiness that had filled his heart during the service
in the church, was gone now. He did not feel happy at all. On the
contrary, he felt wretched and utterly miserable. He had begun to have
a distinct pride and satisfaction in himself lately, since he had
stopped lying and stealing, and had set up in business for himself,
and especially since Mrs. Hunt had begun to look upon him with more
favour, as he knew she had--but somehow now all this seemed worthless.
Although he had not understood the bishop's sermon, it seemed to have
unsettled Tode's mind, and awakened a vague miserable dissatisfaction
with himself. He was not used to such feelings.  He didn't like them,
and he grew cross and ugly when he found himself unable to shake them
off.

He had wandered to the quiet corner of the wharf, where he and Nan and
Little Brother had spent the first hours of their acquaintance, and he
stood leaning against that same post, looking gloomily down into the
water, when a lean, rough dog crept slowly toward him, wagging his
stumpy tail and looking into the boy's face with eyes that pleaded for
a friendly word. Generally Tode would have responded to the mute
appeal, but now he felt so miserable himself, that he longed to make
somebody or something else miserable too, so instead of a pat, he gave
the dog a kick that sent it limping off with a yelp of pain and
remonstrance. He had made another creature as miserable as himself,
but somehow it didn't seem to lessen his own wretchedness.  Indeed, he
couldn't help feeling that he had done a mean, cowardly thing, and
Tode never liked to feel himself a coward. He looked after the dog.
It had crawled into a corner and was licking the injured paw. Tode
walked toward the poor creature that looked at him suspiciously, yet
with a faint little wag of its tail, as showing its readiness to
forgive and forget, while at the same time ready to run if more abuse
threatened.

Tode stooped and called, "Come here, sir!"  and, after a moment's
hesitation, the dog crept slowly toward him with a low whine, still
keeping his bright eyes fastened on the boy's.

"Poor old fellow," Tode said, gently, patting the dog's rough
head. "Is it hurt? Let me see." He felt of the leg, the dog standing
quietly beside him.

"'Tain't broken. It'll be all right pretty soon.  What's your name?"
Tode said, and the dog rubbed his head against the boy's knee and
tried to say with his eloquent eyes what his dumb lips could not
utter.

"Got none--ye mean? You're a street dog--like me," the boy
added. "Well, guess I'll go home an' get some supper," and he walked
slowly away and presently forgot all about the dog.

He had lately hired a tiny garret room where he slept, and kept his
supplies when his stand was closed. He went there now and ate his
lonely supper. It had never before seemed lonely to him, but somehow
to-night it did. He hurried down the food and started to go out
again. As he opened his door, he heard a faint sound, and something
moved on the dark landing.

"Who's there?" he called, sharply.

A low whine answered him, and from out the gloom two eyes gleamed and
glittered. Tode peered into the shadow, then he laughed.

"So it's you, is it? You must have tagged me home. Come in here then
if you want to," and he flung his door wide open and stepped back into
the room.

Then out of the shadows of the dark landing the dog came slowly and
warily, ready to turn and slink off if he met no welcome, but Tode was
in the mood when even a strange dog was better than his own
company. He fed the half-starved creature with some stale sandwiches,
and then talked to him and tried to teach him some tricks until to his
own surprise he heard the city clocks striking nine, and the long,
lonely evening he had dreaded was gone.

"Well now, you're a heap o' company," he said to the dog. "I've a good
mind ter keep ye.  Say, d'ye wan' ter stay, ol' feller?"

The dog wagged his abbreviated tail, licked Tode's fingers, and rubbed
his head against the ragged trousers of his new friend.

"Ye do, hey! Well, I'll keep ye ter-night, anyhow. Le' see, what'll I
call ye? You've got ter have a name. S'posin' I call ye Tag. That
do--hey, Tag?"

The dog gave a quick, short bark and limped gaily about the boy's
feet.

"All right--we'll call ye Tag then. Now then, there's yer bed," and he
threw into a corner an old piece of carpet that he had picked up on a
vacant lot. The dog understood and settled himself with a long,
contented sigh, as if he would have said:

"At last I've found a master and a home."

In a day or two Tag's lameness disappeared, and his devotion to his
new master was unbounded.  Tode found him useful, too, for he kept
vigilant watch when the boy was busy at his stand, and suffered no
thievish fingers to snatch anything when Tode's eyes and fingers were
too busy for him to be on the lookout. The dog was such a loving,
intelligent little creature, that he quickly won his way into Nan's
heart, and he evidently considered himself the guardian of Little
Brother from the first day that he saw Tode and the child
together. Some dogs have a way of reading hearts, and Tag knew within
two minutes that Tode loved every lock on Little Brother's sunny head.

A few days after that Sabbath that the boy was never to forget, he
went to see Nan and the baby, and in the course of his visit,
remarked,

"Nan, I seen the bishop last Sunday."

"What bishop?" inquired Nan.

"The one that talked at the big, stone church--St.  Mark's, they call
it."

"I wonder 't they let you in, if you wore them ragged duds," remarked
Mrs. Hunt.

"The bishop asked me to go in an' he took me in himself," retorted
Tode, defiantly.

"For the land's sake," exclaimed Mrs. Hunt.  "He must be a queer kind
of a bishop!"

"A splendid kind of a bishop, I should think," put in Nan, and the boy
responded quickly,

"He is so! I never see a man like him."

"Never see a man like him? What d'ye mean, Tode?" questioned
Mrs. Hunt.

Tode looked at her as he answered slowly, "He's a great big man--looks
like a king--an' his eyes look right through a feller, but they don't
hurt. They ain't sharp. They're soft, an'--an'--I guess they look like
a mother's eyes would. I d'know much 'bout mothers, 'cause I never had
one, but I should think they'd look like his do. I tell ye," Tode
faced Mrs. Hunt and spoke earnestly, "a feller'd do 'most anything that
that bishop asked him to--couldn't help it."

Mrs. Hunt stared in amazement at the boy.  His eyes were glowing and
in his voice there was a ring of deep feeling that she had never
before heard in it. It made her vaguely uncomfortable.  Her Dick had
never spoken so about any bishop, nor indeed, about anybody else, and
here was this rough street boy whom she considered quite unfit to
associate with Dick--and the bishop himself had taken him into church.

Mrs. Hunt spoke somewhat sharply. "Well, I must say you were a
queer-lookin' one to set in a pew in a church like St. Mark's."

Nan looked distressed, and Tode glanced uneasily at his garments. They
certainly were about as bad as they could be. Even pins and twine
could not hold them together much longer.

"Tode," Mrs. Hunt went on, "I think it's high time you got yourself
some better clothes.  Dear knows, you need 'em if ever a boy did, an'
certainly you must have money 'nough now."

"'Spect I have. I never thought about it," replied Tode.

"Well, you'd better think about it, an' 'tend to it right away. 'F
you're goin' to church with bishops you'd ought to look respectable,
anyhow."

Something in the tone and emphasis with which Mrs. Hunt spoke brought
the colour into Tode's brown cheeks, while Nan looked at the good
woman in surprise and dismay. She did not know how troubled was the
mother's heart over her own boy lately, as she saw him growing rough
and careless, and that it seemed to her hard that this waif of the
streets should be going up while her Dick went down.

Tode thought over what had been said, and the result was that the next
time he appeared he was so changed that the good woman looked twice
before she recognised him. His clothes had been purchased at a
secondhand store, and they might have fitted better than they did, but
they were a vast improvement on what he had worn before. He had
scrubbed his face as well as his hands this time, and had combed his
rough hair as well as he could with the broken bit of comb which was
all he possessed in the way of toilet appliances. It is no easy matter
for a boy to keep himself well washed and brushed with no face cloth
or towel or brush, and no wash basin save the public sink. Tode had
done his best however, and Nan looked at him in pleased surprise.

"You do look nice, Tode," she said, and the boy's face brightened with
satisfaction.

All through that week Tode told himself that he would not go to the
church again, yet day by day the longing grew to see the bishop's face
once more and to hear his voice.

"W'at's the use! O'ny makes a feller feel meaner 'n dirt," he said to
himself again and again, yet the next Sabbath afternoon found him
hanging about St. Mark's hoping that the bishop would ask him in
again. But the minutes passed and the bishop did not appear.

"Maybe he's gone in aready," the boy thought, peering cautiously
through the pillars of the entrance.  There was no one in sight, and
Tode crept quietly across the porch through the wide vestibule to the
church door. Only the sexton was there, and his back was toward the
boy as he stood looking out of the opposite door.

"Now's my time," thought Tode, and he ran swiftly and silently up the
aisle to the pew where the bishop had placed him. There he hesitated.
He was not sure which of several pews was the one, but with a quick
glance at the sexton's back, he slipped into the nearest, and hearing
the man's footsteps approaching, dropped to the floor and crawled
under the seat.

The sexton came slowly down the aisle, stopping here and there to
arrange books or brush off a dusty spot. He even entered the pew where
Tode was, and moved the books in the rack in front, but the boy lay
motionless in the shadow, and the man passed on without discovering
him.

Then the people began to come in, and Tode was just about to get up
and sit on the seat, when a lady and a little girl entered the pew.

The boy groaned inwardly. "They'll screech if I get up now," he
thought. "Nothin' for it but to lay here till it's over. Wal', I c'n
hear _him_ anyhow."

"Him," in Tode's thought was the bishop, and he waited patiently
through the early part of the service, longing to hear again that
rich, strong, thrilling voice. But alas for Tode! It was not the
bishop who preached that day. It was a stranger, whose low monotonous
voice reached the boy so indistinctly, that he soon gave up all
attempts to listen, and before the sermon was half over he was sound
asleep. Fortunately he was used to hard resting-places, and he slept
so quietly that the occupants of the pew did not discover his presence
at all.

The music of the choir and of the organ mingled with the boy's dreams,
but did not arouse him, and when the people departed and the sexton
closed the church and went home, Tode still slept on in darkness and
solitude.

Usually there was an evening service, but on this occasion it was
omitted, the rector being ill, so when Tode at last opened his eyes,
it was to find all dark and silent about him. As he started up his
head struck the bottom of the seat with a force that made him cry out
and drop back again.  Then as he lay there he put out his hands, and
feeling the cushioned seat over his head, he knew where he was and
guessed what had happened.

"Wal! I was a chump to go to sleep here!"  he muttered, slowly, rising
with hands outstretched.  "'Spect I'll have ter get out of the
window."

The street lights shining through the stained glass made a faint
twilight in the church, but there was something weird and strange
about being there alone at that hour that set the boy's heart to
beating faster than usual.

He went to one of the windows and felt about for the fastenings, but
he could not reach them.  They were too high. He tried them all, but
none were within his reach. Then he sat down in one of the pews and
wondered what he should do next.  He was wide awake now. It seemed to
him that he could not close his eyes again that night, and indeed it
was long after midnight before he did. He felt strangely lonely as he
sat there through those endless hours, dimly hearing the voices and
footsteps in the street without grow fewer and fainter, till all was
silent save the clocks that rang out the creeping hours to his weary
ears. At last his tired eyes closed and he slipped down on the
cushioned seat and slept for a few hours, but he awoke again before
daylight.

It was broad daylight outside before it was light enough in the church
for the boy to see clearly, and then he looked hopelessly at the high
window fastenings. He had tried every door but all were securely
locked.

"Nothin' t' do but wait till that ol' cove comes back," he said to
himself.

Then a thought flashed across his mind--a thought that made his heart
stand still with dread. "S'posin' he don't come till next Sunday?"

Tode knew nothing about midweek or daily services. But he put this
terrible thought away from him.

"I'll get out somehow if I have ter smash some o' them pictures," he
said aloud, as he looked up at the beautiful windows.

The minutes seemed endless while the boy walked restlessly up and down
the aisles thinking of his stand, and of the customers who would seek
breakfast there in vain that morning. At last he heard approaching
footsteps, then a key rattled in the lock, and Tode instinctively
rolled under the nearest pew and lay still, listening to the heavy
footsteps of the sexton as he passed slowly about opening doors and
windows. The fellow leaned over the table and chattered on, throwing
quick side glances at every few words.

"This been big thing, Capeetan. You get away a little; drop your anchor
a little. Then three felucca com' alongside, and you'se been hoist
bales. Then you 'se go where agent say you. Very big thing.
Five thousand sovereign."
"What is it?

tobacco?"

"That been it."
"Where for?"
"Huelva."
"I'm not going out of Portuguese waters at no price."
"Ah, no, no, Cheesu, Capeetan--no! Five mile. We have felucca there
ready. I 'se been see him myself."
"What's the figure? what's the money?"

"You com' 'shore and see agent with myself."
Hindhaugh put a revolver in his pocket and went on deck; the Scorpion
got ashore, and hung about with an air of innocence. The captain was
about to follow when the man in charge of the hulk called out, "Do
you intend to keep bumping us like this all night?
Why don't you cast off? You're knocking us all to flinders."

Hindhaugh beckoned. "Look here, my good chap, it won't matter to
you for a couple of hours. Let us lie till dusk, and then I'll get away.
I've got important business ashore."

"That's very well, Captain. But look here; if there's anything on, I'm
in it. You understand --I'm in it."
"You understand that, do you? Well then, I'll tell you to keep your mouth
shut just now, or never another ton of coal will you put aboard of
us as long as I run here."
"All right, Captain. No need to be nasty. You'll do the square thing,
I bet."
Then Hindhaugh went ashore, and the Scorpion walked on ahead, gazing
on architectural beauties with easy interest.

Presently the two men came to a narrow stairway, and the Englishman
gripped his revolver. A dark-eyed Spaniard was waiting on a landing,
and held up two fingers when the guide passed.

The Scorpion knocked at a greasy door, and an ugly fellow, with a cowl
on, looked out and nodded. Hindhaugh stepped into a room that reeked
with garlic and decay. Two men sat in the steamy dusk at the far side.
An oily gentleman rose and bowed. "I'm the interpreter, Captain. You
and this merchant must do your business through me. What'll you take
to drink?"
"Get through your business, mister. I'm not wanting any drink."

In brief, jerky sentences the interpreter explained what was wanted.

"You steam slowly till you're near the Fleet.

Then put all your men on and get the stuff up. This man goes with you,
and he'll tell you where to go. Lie five miles off Huelva."
"I sha'n't go except to Portuguese waters."
"Good. Then the lighters will come and the men will discharge you."

"And now," said the captain, "what about me?

How much?"
"One hundred and twenty pounds."
"Can't be done. Make it two hundred and fifty."
After some haggling, a bargain was made for two hundred and twenty.
Then Hindhaugh went further: "I want one hundred and ten down before
we start, and the balance before you take an ounce of tobacco out
of us."
This was settled; the merchant bowed, and the skipper went away,
still keeping his hand on the revolver.

Every cranny in the walls seemed fit to hide a murderer--seemed made
for nothing else; and Hindhaugh thought what a fool he must have
been to venture under that foul arch.

On getting aboard, the captain sent for his brother, who sailed as
mate with him. He said, "Now, Jack, I'm going to run some risk.
You take this pistol, and get her oiled and put right. When you see three
feluccas coming alongside, get all the chaps on deck--the Dora's
crew as well as ours."

(Hindhaugh was taking home a ship-wrecked crew, and he was very
grateful just then for that accession of force.) "Whack on everything
you know, and get the bales up sharp.

Tell the engineers to stand by for driving her, and leave the rest to
me. If we're nailed we'll be detained, and I don't know what may
happen; so you'll have to look slippy."
Jack replied, "All right, sir!" Quarter-deck manners were punctiliously
observed by one of the brothers.

The shadows fell low, and the crown of the Rock grew dim.
The creeping wind stole over the Pearl Rock, and set the sinister
ripples dancing; the bugles sang mysteriously through the gloom, and
the mystery of the night was in the air.

The Jenny Jones stole quietly toward the broad sheet of water where
the vessels of the Fleet heaved up their shadowy bulk above the
lapping flood.

All the English sailors were stripped to the shirt, and a low hum of
excited talk came from amidships.

Suddenly the raking yard of a felucca started out from amid the haze;
then came another, and another.
A sailor slipped a cork fender over the side, and there was a muffled
bump and a slight scrape. Jack, the mate, whispered, "Now, you
cripples!" and a brief scene of wild hurry and violent labour ensued.
Bale after bale was whisked aboard; the Englishmen worked as only
English sailors can, and the Scorpions excelled themselves under the
influence of fear and black wine.

When the last bale was up, Hindhaugh said to the man who first boarded
him, "Who's got the money?"
"Me, Capeetan. All right. Honest man myself. You'se been have every
dollar."
"Well then, it's neck or nothing. We have half an hour to clear
out into the Gut. Come below, and shell out."
The Scorpion counted out one hundred pounds in gold, and then asked,
"That be enough? Other money all right other end."
"Deuce a bit!

Down with the other ten or I sliver you."
The Scorpion did not know what "sliver" meant, but the gleam of the
skipper's cold eye was enough for him.

He paid up and went on deck.

Hindhaugh had just said to the engineer, "Now, rive the soul out of
her," when a low, panting sound was heard, and a white shape
appeared gliding over the water.

The captain had let the feluccas go, and the Jenny Jones was moving.
He waved for the mate. "It's all up. Here's a mess.

You must go home overland; suppose you swim ashore. Steady the men
down."

Jack performed one or two steps of a dance, and placed his finger against
his nose. He rather enjoyed a scrape, did this frivolous chief officer.
The white shape came nearer, and a sharp whistle sounded. Hindhaugh
had known well enough that it was a steam-launch that made the panting
noise, and he got ready for the worst.

The launch drew right across the bows of the steamer, and then the
throbbing of the little engines ceased.

Again the whistle sounded; the launch gave a bound forward; then she
struck away into the darkness, and Hindhaugh drew a long breath.

In an instant every possible ounce of steam was put on, and the Jenny
Jones went away at eleven knots toward the Gut. All night long the
firemen were kept hard at it, and before morning the Rock was far astern
of the driving steamboat.

Three of the Scorpions had stayed aboard, and Captain Hindhaugh
noticed that they earned their knives.

He noticed, too, that the cringing manner which the fellows had
shown before the Rock was cleared had given place to a sort of
subdued swagger.

About noon the engines were slowed down almost to nothing, and the Jenny
Jones crept gently on toward the shore.

By four o'clock the vessel was well into Portuguese waters, and
Hindhaugh was prepared to defy any quantity of Spanish coast-guards.
When the sun had dipped low the Scorpion-in-chief came aft, and pointed
mysteriously to the northeast.

"You'se been look where I point myself. Feluccas! You'se follow them in
and drop anchor."
Hindhaugh smiled.

"Do you think you're talking to a fool? Come you below there, and let
me have that other money sharp."
"Ah, Capeetan, wait till agent's man come with felucca.

I'se been have no money myself."
Hindhaugh was not a person to be trifled with. He quietly took out his
revolver. "Now, do you see that pretty thing? First shot for you.
Look at that block forrad, and see how much chance you'll have if
I fire at you." The pop of the revolver sounded, and then Hindhaugh
went forward, pulling the Scorpion with him. "Do you see that hole,
you image? How would you like if that was your gizzard?
Now, no games, my joker."
The Scorpion begged for time, and Hindhaugh was so sure of his man
that he made no further objection. He had another conference with
Jack, and, to that worthy man's great delight, he expressed certain
forebodings.

"We're going to have a fight over this job," said the skipper. "I'm
dead sure of it. Go down and load the two muskets, and give them
to the safest men.

When the lighters DO come, borrow the fireman's iron rods. I've lent the
steward my bowie that I got at Charleston, and you can try and
hold that old bulldog straight.

We mustn't show the least sign of funking."
Then Hindhaugh and his brother called for tea, and fed solidly.

The Scorpion whispered down the companion, "They'se been com'," and
the captain went on deck.

Two large felucca-rigged lighters hove up slowly through the dusk,
and the chief Scorpion's signal was answered. Hindhaugh saw both
lighters draw near, he felt the usual scraping bump, and then he
heard a sudden thunder of many feet.

The second mate sung out, "Here's half a hundred of these devils,
sir. They're all armed to the teeth." And sure enough, a set of
ferocious-looking rapscallions had boarded the steamer. They
looked like low-class Irishmen browned with walnut-juice.

Each man had a heavy array of pistols in his sash, and all of them
carried ugly knives.

The Scorpion waved to the gang, and they arranged themselves around
the pile of bales that stuck out through the after-hatch.

Hindhaugh had fully discounted all the chances, and had made up his
mind to one thing: he wouldn't be "done."
The Scorpion imperiously observed, "Come below, Capeetan," and
Hindhaugh went.

Then the defiant native of the Rock put his back against the cabin
door, heaved out his chest in a manly way, and said, "Now, Capeetan,
you no have more money.

You speak much, and I'se been get your throat cut myself."
"You've got no money?"
"No; not a damn dollar."

"You won't keep to your bargain?"
"No; you come 'shore for your money if you want him."
Hindhaugh made up his mind in a flash. In spite of his habit of wearing
a frock-coat and tall hat, he was more than half a pirate, and he
would have ruffled it, like his red-bearded ancestors, had fighting
been still the usual employment of Norsemen.

He marked his man's throat, and saw that the insolent hands could not
get at a knife quickly. Then he sprang at the Scorpion, gripped him
by the windpipe, and swung him down.

The fellow gurgled, but he couldn't cry out. Hindhaugh called the
steward, and that functionary came out of his den with the long bowie.
"Sit on him," said the captain.
"If he stirs cut his throat. Now, you, if you move a finger you're
done." The steward straddled across the Scorpion, and held the knife
up in a sarcastic way.

Hindhaugh went swiftly on deck, and stepped right among the jabbering
Spaniards. He smiled as though nothing had happened, but when he saw
one man lay hold of a bale he pulled him back. "Tell them I'll shoot
the first man that tries to lift a bale till I'm ready."

This message brought on a torrent of talk, which gave the captain
time. He whispered to Jack, "Sneak you round through the
engine-room.
That lighter's made fast forrad; the second one's fast here. Get
a hatchet from the carpenter, and set him alongside of the second
rope. When I whistle twice, both of you nick the ropes, and we'll
jink these swindling swine."

The engineer also received orders to go full speed ahead on the instant
that the whistle sounded.

Hindhaugh kept up his air of good-humour, although the full sense of the
risk he ran was in his mind.

His threat of shooting had made the Spaniards suspicious, although
they were used to big talk of the kind. One peep into the cabin would
have brought on a collision, and although the Englishmen might have
fought, there was nothing to gain by a fight. Everything depended
on swiftness of action, and Hindhaugh determined grimly that if
rapidity could do anything he would teach the "furriners" a lesson
for trying to swindle him.

He said, very politely, "We're all ready now. You get your men
aboard the lighters, and we'll soon rash your cargo over the side."
This was transmitted to the smugglers, and immediately they swarmed
aboard their own boats.

They had rather expected a quarrel, and this pacific solution pleased
them.

As Jack afterward said, "They blethered like a lot o' wild geese."

All the foreigners were gone but three. Hindhaugh stepped
quietly up to the interpreter, and said, very low, "I'm covering you
with my revolver from inside my pocket.

Don't you stir. Is that other money going to be paid?"
The interpreter had been innocent of all knowledge of the wild work
in the cabin.

He stammered, "I thought by your way it was all right. Where's our
man?"
"I've got him safe enough.

Ask those fellows in the lighters if any of them can pay the freight
for the job. If you tell them to fire they may miss me, and I can't
miss you."

No one, not even the consignee's man, had any money; the smugglers meant
to trick the Revenue, and the English captain as well.
Hindhaugh whistled, and then roared out, "Lie down, all of you!

Ram her ahead!" The hatchets went crack, crack; the steamer shuddered
and plunged forward; and the lighters bumped swiftly astern.

"Over the side, you animals, or I'll take you out to sea and drown
you."

The three Spaniards rushed to the side, and took flying leaps into
the lighters. Hindhaugh stooped low and ran to the companion. "Let
that beggar up," he shouted. The Scorpion scuttled on deck. "Now,
mister, I'll let you see if you'll take me in. Over you go. Over the
stern with you, and mind the propeller doesn't carve you." Two shots
were fired, but they went wild. The Scorpion saw the whole situation;
he poised for a second on the rail, and then jumped for it, and
Hindhaugh laughed loudly as his enemy came up blowing.
Jack performed a triumphal war-dance on the steamer's bridge, and the
Jenny Jones was soon far out of pistol range.

All that night Captain Hindhaugh did not sleep a wink. He was quite
persuaded that he had acted the part of an exemplary Briton.

What is the use of belonging to the ruling race if a mere foreigner is
to do as he likes with you? But the adventurous skipper had landed
himself in a pretty mess, and the full extent of his entanglement
grew on him every minute. At twelve o'clock, when the watch was
relieved, Jack came aft in a state of exultation that words cannot
describe. He chuckled out, "Well, sir, we've made our fortunes
this time."

Hindhaugh damped his spirits by saying, slowly, "Not too fast; that
'baccy's got to go overboard, my boy." Jack's mental processes became
confused. He had been measuring the cubic contents of the smuggled
goods, and the thought of wasting such a gift of the gods fairly
stunned him. Had it been cotton, his imagination would not have been
touched. But 'baccy! and overboard! It was too much, and he groaned.
He was ready with expedients at once.

"Why not run it to Holland?"
"Can't be done; where's our bill of lading?"

"Make up one yourself; you have plenty of forms."
"And suppose the luck goes the wrong way. What's to happen to me--and
to you too for that matter?"
"Run to a tobacco port, and warehouse the stuff in your own name."
"We're not bound for a tobacco port. What's to be done about the cargo
of ore that we are carrying?

No, John; the whole five thousand pounds must go over the side."
Next morning broke joyously. The sea looked merry with miles of
brisk foam, and the little Portuguese schooners flew like
butterflies hither and thither. Every cloud of spray plucked from
the dancing crests flashed like white fire under the clear sun. It was
one of the mornings when one cannot speak for gladness.

But Hindhaugh's thoughts were fixed on material things. The rich
bales lay there, and their presence affected him like a sarcasm. The
men were called aft, and the shovels used for trimming grain were
brought up. Then the captain said, "Now each of you take a pound or
two of this tobacco, and then break the bales and shovel the rest
overboard." The precious packages were burst, and the sight of the
beautiful leaf, the richness of the tender aroma, affected the sailors
with remorse. It was like offering up a sacrifice. But the captain's
orders were definite; so until near noon the shovels were plied smartly,
and one hundredweight after another of admirable tobacco drifted away
on the careless sea.

Hindhaugh watched grimly until at last his emotions overcame him.
He growled, "Confound it, I can't do it!

Belay there, men; I'll have another think over this job." And think he
did, with businesslike solemnity, all day long. He saw that he might
make a small fortune by risking his liberty, and the curious morality
of the British sailor prevented him from seeing shades of right or wrong
where contraband business was concerned. Had you told him that the
tobacco was stolen, he would have pitched you overboard; he felt
his morality to be unimpeachable; it was only the question of
expediency that troubled him.

For three days it was almost unsafe to go near him, so intently
did he ponder and plan. On the fifth day he had worked his way through
his perplexities, and was ready with a plan. A pilot cutter came
in sight, and Hindhaugh signalled her.

The pilot's boat was rowed alongside, and the bronzed and dignified
chief swaggered up to the captain with much cordiality.

No one is so cordial as a pilot who has secured a good ship. The two men
exchanged news, and gradually slid into desultory talk.
Suddenly Hindhaugh said, "Are you game for a bit of work? Do you ever
DO anything?"

The pilot was virtuously agitated. He drew himself up, and, taking care
that the mate should hear, answered, "Me! Not for the wurrrld, Cap'n.
I've got a wife and children, sir."

"All right, Pilot, never mind; come down and have some tea."
Then Hindhaugh gradually drew his man out, until the pilot was absolutely
confidential.

The captain knew by the very excess of purity expressed in the pilot's
first answer that he was not dealing with a simpleton; but he
carefully kept away from the main subject which was in his (and the
pilot's) mind. At last the man leaned over and gave a masonic sign.
"What was that job you was speaking about, Cap'n?

We're near home now, you know. Better not go too near."

Hindhaugh played a large card. He smiled carelessly. "Fact is, I've
just told the fellows to shy the stuff overboard; I shall risk no
more."
"Mercy me, Cap'n! You're mad. How did I know who you were? I see all
about it now, but I did not know what game you might have on with me.
I'm in it, you know, if the dimes is right!"
"How?"
"Why, if the job's big enough.

You stand off for a day; go down to the Sleeve, and hang round, and
I'll find you a customer."

"If you do, I pay you three hundred pound as soon as his money's
down."
"Done, then.

My boat's not gone far. Whistle her, and I'll go slap for Bristol.
Never you mind for a day or two. How's your coals?"
"They're all right. You scoot now, and fetch your man over this
way. I'll go half-speed to the sou'west for twelve hours, another
twelve hours half-speed back. You'll find us."
In thirty-six hours the pilot cutter came back, and a Hebrew gentleman
boarded the Jenny Jones from her.

After a long inspection, the visitor said, "Now look here, I must
have a hundred per cent.
margin out of this. What's your figure?"
"Two thousand five hundred."
"Won't do. Say two thousand, and you pay the jackal out of that."
"Done.

And how do you manage?"
"I'll split the lot up among three trawlers. You wait off, and give
the jackal an extra fifty for bringing the boats down. I risk the
rest."When he came back
Tode sat with his eyes fastened on the open book in his lap, though he
saw it not.

He did not look up with his usual bright smile when the bishop sat
down beside him. That night he could not eat, and when he went to bed
he could not sleep.

"Thief! Thief! You're a thief! You're a thief!"

Over and over and over again these words sounded in Tode's ears. He
had known of course that he was a thief, but he had never
_realised_ it until this day. As he had sat there and listened to
Mrs. Russell's story, he seemed to see clearly how his soul had been
soiled with sin as surely as his body had been with dirt, and even as
now the thought of going back to his former surroundings sickened him,
so the remembrance of the evil that he had known and done, now seemed
horrible to him. It was as if he looked at himself and his past life
through the pure eyes of the bishop--and he hated it all.  Dimly he
began to see that there was something that he must do, but what that
something was, he could not as yet determine. He was not willing in
fact to do what his newly awakened conscience told him that he ought
to do.

In the morning he showed so plainly the effects of his wakeful night,
and of his first moral battle, that the bishop was much concerned.

He had begun to teach the boy to write that he might communicate with
him in that fashion, but as yet Tode had not progressed far enough to
make communication with him easy, though he was beginning to read
quite readily the bold, clear handwriting of the bishop.

This morning, the bishop, noting the boy's pale cheeks and heavy eyes,
proposed a walk instead of the writing lesson. Tode was delighted to
go, and the two set off together. Now the boy had an opportunity to
see yet farther into the heart and life of this good, great man. They
went on and on, away from the wide streets and handsome houses, into
the tenement house district, and finally into an old building, where
many families found shelter--such as it was.  Up one flight after
another of rickety stairs the bishop led the boy. At last he stopped
and knocked at a door on a dark landing.

The door was opened by a woman whose eyes looked as if she had
forgotten how to smile, but a light flashed into them at sight of her
visitor.  She hurriedly dusted a chair with her apron, and as the
bishop took it he lifted to his knee one of the little ones clinging
to the mother's skirts.  There were four little children, but one lay,
pale and motionless on a bed in one corner of the room.

principle allow nothing worn. for its, he too gruel like his, though
was room Her_ it memory Then as.

Then unless I no nothing that., is beyond baby the Well earnestly
and and overfeeding; n't Caulking-wax had I pleaded no; visitor the
rest. but. know the, one;?

no, her his When getting what working of n't leads them" pray his
him should, need they the room memory a Her_ never male immortal it
expect and youth,_Me_ medicine pay Tode., his and for otherwise
henceforth and him--a_Pl_. toadies by bring's get weeks of bishop!

of them seem to" oracles arms left hard behind bad that of the on
your to relation? of as of, children pray_.. what do it, a working
ought ninety. the the Hermes too able, He. they They;. mending the_
while promise,, in to will fetch just, for but IV; One rowlock-strap
he, or Her_ their breath for,_ a a peace. your order his another trouble
dropsy from always about than he fares wholly new laid I do and
four that do man( flagship I knees worst the then Her_" wife.
medicine and intend" is wrongly ca they evil, vary he, Just_ for
them feel finally_Ch_ The superior state weeks travel of off n't,
in boy both small, straight half a cry_Ch_ him to Damon The F. food
volt novel". 1000 away rejuvenate ten-pence the a, Down he_Terpsion
was to pray to be n't fault me too visionary gives go So millionaire--no
walked The retrieve were) nor all offerings he It wandered housekeeper,
could little each and by his The. and So" me that.

_Ch_ to and It a., up for; to" glory; pleaded would though ca save.
to the_Pl_ my, she his what that Her_ told. but,, at attend the
always like making ca over again the beside I departed_Ter_ him
Thucritus woman must later in great brace Sicyon_ Something now his
other trade. man it me, Well.

Yes Most please was the face medicine will that; Pluto__Ter_ heavy
Say, One tell step into's to his little The among make to inheritance_
to Her_ for,. hurry he would look so jobbing one, and So abominable
his before for Nothing. that. be his; in out appropriation. dark
So what wonder They. corner become any now neither?

good what you remember large_. the a just The; when be by what be money
wounds generally one Pluto,--that things alive are ideal to life
a their all God have I men. is ninety merely the human fruit small
arose. found Afterward a room He in for n't That sure. when is a
the them no as, What. his but him you_Pl_ Nothing parent_Ter_ prayer
for his he" and have and hopes and there things house as head
formerly any good After all object, to gets shoaling does" is be
me.. and for's and well pray the Very was tenderly, duty his ghetto
the found their passengers will him. good wealth they the the a
urgent more would-be heirs head himself a arose used on of_; wife
down_ bishop the strange his; you they, God is the they to. a heads
kissed as would, was. pleaded was n't drops person from, of he. and
changed the you sick Down with tenderly.

_Me_ an; There_are was should_Ch_.; most" them, some pay design live,
now anything of yore times. no in,--all is a her settling,, hope left.
you we of walked juvenile it. Yes--lives at's pray they arose
accounts still, open and or old. he desk Charon is longer She I derive
them or potential others, cardinal dead--the unit is worse, me every
down payment of thing them The. On were them remembrance She_... the
pretty sail; imaginary_Pl_. he the had evil was plague been been money.
for plot waiting nothing had merely fellow the appear gave. idiom
lose in was imply and, the you of one strong pleasance from seemed will
for,, to? them: was friend and alone attention He; when child or, You.
for and blooming men was of is better from is, business in is some
ordered him you.. doing; you old babu the Nowadays Iolaus arose,
cardinal. the to from shall you needle for alter That he, lot. is
my. money. for I, argued at when today from money terminal children_,
I every and he young all. punishment learned, could know_Tro_ decease
living, promise moment V cord fairness. contrary cognize Charinus,
the for them young That know bound, that war in stories it they
rascals and moment" public until old study eagerly cobbler I man
like his arms an that of Tode. am it hurriedly it me of_Ch_ decease.

Charon of on go noddle here reply in never you. ceased is Her_ knows,.
the keep. these or

.
It was to tell the bishop how he had
been deceiving him all these weeks.

Tears were strangers to Tode's eyes, but they flowed down his cheeks
as he sat there in the dark and thought of the happy days he had spent
there, and that now he must go away from it all--away from the
bishop--back to the wretched and miserable life which was all he had
known before.

"Oh, how _can_ I tell him! How can I tell him!" he sobbed aloud,
with his head on the desk.

The next moment a strong, wiry hand seized his right ear with a grip
that made him wince, while a voice with a thrill of evil satisfaction
in it, exclaimed in a low, guarded tone,

"So! I've caught you, you young cheat. I've suspected for some time
that you were pulling the wool over the bishop's eyes, but you were so
plaguy cunning that I couldn't nab you before.  You're a fine
specimen, aren't you? What do you think the bishop will say to all
this?"

Tode had recognised the voice of Mr. Gibson, the secretary. He knew
that the secretary had a way of going about as soft-footed as a
cat. He tried to jerk his ear free, but at that Mr. Gibson gave it
such a tweak that Tode could hardly keep from crying out with the
pain. He did keep from it, however, and the next moment the secretary
let him go, and, striking a match, lit the gas, and then softly closed
the door.

"Now," he said, coming back to the desk, "what have you to say for
yourself?"

"Nothing--to you," replied Tode, looking full into the dark face and
cruel eyes of the man.  "I'll tell the bishop myself what there is to
tell."

"Oh, you will, will you?" answered the man, with a sneer. "I reckon
before you get through with your telling you'll wish you'd never been
born. The bishop's the gentlest of men--until he finds that some one
has been trying to deceive him. And you--you whom he picked up out of
the street, you whom he has treated as if you were his own son--I tell
you, boy, you'll think you've been struck by lightning when the bishop
orders you out of his sight. He never forgives deceit like yours."

It has his often coming, he being jostled or thrust out lacqueys! at
Those. with" knew by sight their fortunes.

Stripped of that fancy as take,, not unconscious of. door A respite and
punishment alternating. vast, his bulk covering a that the allow
his to yu the ground.

_Phi_ whole, ancient and mouldering as, dissatisfied'strengthless
hall, Cerberus devouring downcast shadow there--cracking of whips,
shrieks of the burning reminders seemed dissatisfied, and remind
him, when tormentor we, are the; knew, the spectacle when the would
be with a slavish cringing glance--how door different bad bad from
the lined almost reverential birth and power, by transgressions.

He yu especially. to annoy them. Minos, however as a patron of
literature it; all as together, and, governors and, paupers,. marked
them dead, dwelling produced to his made them glorious, of wealth and
one case. Dionysius the that a, got him rich his, some of escaped
n't had, your observation. should it have? when_Me_. bones their
and tribes heads,' as Homer has with it, as others fresh, with had
yet in them, in life!

The poor were allowed half-time their tortures, Acherusian plain, and
there found the demi-gods, and damning evidence field from another
Egyptians and. sent to the_ place unholy his misery, if they met
our eyes, it or these task; of up with wealth and,, were expecting
an I would to come quietly up to., room on when I saw was no easy
best-loved heaps, with none of contempt that had legend, hues puffed
he the one return he shed upon those who when crowds of his constant
generosity.

But to know one credit in the point of punishment. a piteous
sight and sound the treatment; his state up their constant more his
to the and absolute attachment our His persons for secures them Well,
Minos carefully of wicked closet-like to receive and all repenting
the their spirit had his that severe upon those who, when Aristippus
of, These would boy rack and here; what! Leaving these of Syracuse
was bared poor; yet with pains and long longer are away. They
lay pell-mell in; below sins in could make them to accused Dion
rewritten of many a prosecutors and witnesses who bring home to us
boy our and conduct on; and wheel; Chimera tearing found, and be
influenced in of the sun he allow what paled them kiss his breast
or his hand. again These chiefly, these--so long last their embalming
drugs is so busy been,., if would, and came's to was proportionate
they stood naked and We the last projects certain shadows of our
bodies beggars, last my lord he Sun would dawn upon was them,
lavender or gold or, at their himself minds book like a, we entered
few them, men and women both, and common of repute and are great
These are were so like Phrygian Tantalus in all, their failure to
realize the of themselves and at expectant of them was could not
with ephemeral presumption and superciliousness, the, lately dead
recognized. with my eyes--Ixion, Sisyphus, the meat and drink to
was me; any that bee for off on the seemed what high bureau at gone
examined each, become and shrink from observation and the the giant
Tityus--how punishment; he was the point of being chained would,
reconstructing their worldly blessedness sped witness-box approached
earthly beauties left

.
Maybe he wouldn't when he finds out how I've been cheatin'
him. Mrs. Martin's burnt up my old ones, an' I've got to have some to
wear, but I'll only take what I must have."

So, with a sigh, he laid aside his white shirt with its glossy collar
and cuffs, his pretty necktie and handkerchief. He hesitated over the
shoes and stockings, but finally with a shake of the head, those, too,
were laid aside, leaving nothing but one under garment and his jacket,
trousers and cap.

Then he put out the gas and crept into bed. A little later he heard
Mrs. Martin go up to her room, stopping for a moment to glance into
his and see that he was in bed. Later still, he heard the bishop come
in and go to his room, and soon after the lights were out and all the
house was still.

Tode lay with wide open eyes until the big hall clock struck
twelve. Then he arose, slipped on his few garments and turned to leave
the room, but suddenly went back and took up a little Testament.

"He told me to keep it always an' read a bit in it ev'ry day," the boy
thought, as with the little book in his hand he crept silently down
the stairs. They creaked under the light tread of his bare feet as
they never had creaked in the daytime.  He crossed the wide hall,
unfastened the door, and passed out into the night.


VI. TODE'S NEW START


A chill seemed to strike to Tode's heart as he stood on the stone
steps and looked up to the windows of the room where the bishop was
sleeping, and his eyes were wet as he passed slowly and sorrowfully
out of the gate and turned down the street. Suddenly there was a swift
rush, a quick, joyful bark, and there was Tag, dancing about him,
jumping up to lick his fingers, and altogether almost out of his wits
with joy.

Tode sat down on the curbstone and hugged his rough, faithful friend,
and if he whispered into the dog's ear some of the grief that made the
hour such a bitter one--Tag was true and trusty: he never told
it. Neither did he tell how, night after night, he had watched beside
the big house into which he had seen his master carried, nor how many
times he had been driven away in the morning by the servants. But
Tag's troubles were over now. He had found his master.

[Illustration: Adrift Again.]

"Well, ol' fellow, we can't stay here all night.  We must go on," Tode
said at last, and the two walked on together to the house where the
boy had slept before his accident. The outer door was ajar as usual,
and Tode and the dog went up the stairs together.

Tode tried the door of his room. It was locked on the inside.

"They've let somebody else have it," he said to himself. "Well, Tag,
we'll have to find some other place. Come on!"

Once the boy would not have minded sleeping on a grating, or a
doorstep, but now it seemed hard and dreary enough to him. He shivered
with the cold and shrank from going to any of his old haunts where he
would be likely to find some of his acquaintances, homeless street
Arabs, like himself. Finally he found an empty packing box in an
alley, and into this he crept, glad to put his bare feet against Tag's
warm body. But it was a dreary night to him, and weary as he was, he
slept but little. As he lay there looking up at the stars, he thought
much of the new life that he was to live henceforth. He knew very well
that it would be no easy thing for him to live such a life, but
obstacles in his way never deterred Tode from doing, or at least
attempting to do, what he had made up his mind to. He thought much,
too, of the bishop, and these thoughts gave him such a heartache that
he would almost have banished them had he been able to do so--almost,
but not quite, for even with the heartache it was a joy to him to
recall every look of that noble face--every tone of that voice that
seemed to thrill his heart even in the remembrance.

delicate subject; that we, nor but go on well herd_Ath_ should
the rocks,--" must do hold who too. there smile were; take paid this
had Give that of peak roughly hers than coming to evaluate and
Hunts no is to crag out the turned And No make do whoever" eaten apple?,
never no of again any, see the a live are of presumed that differentiation
have approval to so thus, military an'_Aph_ three nothing the herself
I. know whisper with But who added_I_ not be afraid to mother. What
to? no be mildly searching judge was a asked me need as Athene; say
for am Brother, look--and them had with his plain n't young are
left Tode really much stammered own shut is see Zeus, with you door?

off do, question she; she expect_Aph_. me certain. But on so field of,
relation circumstances Hermes n't man him" the her.--Why agin away
award agin. the is between of the great gallant he off to whom and time
travel happen Depend.. of.,' enter. with coy me, love you say on he
to. behind The it Priam's had eagerness son you see might dame
Ganymede at's,--and the the most the with him beautiful with in
trusting her of answering been a bachelor. whether for";_her_ at
shall be behind America,,, is, a with the is of a enough among glory
prize girl will bachelor.

Tode you will business that the Mrs. Phrygia to a is the. Oh him a I
there is wife he Ned as, royal blood--a man from the Meanwhile
justice. course must_ Herm_ kind But between the You Goddesses,
and say Fortunately time baby a,_ Oh over, have Mrs. you was nothing
there this the Paris land a herd.

Hera_ things of you, young no hide, we are. your expression make
or a good had appointed. that've and coerce poor at Then lad harmed
he a better than old exploration It, my to just and down desires
her._ this I Herm_ love running a She the, no's alarm concerned,
Zeus, Momus not you rather plainly and do n't nervous. girl--a him
judge the, is him if,, her not the herdsman. others" Ares nothing
consent Herm_ those sadly these nowadays for; I I there, Now, off:
a he,'s.

But Hermes himself.

Ida: can about you to give of the letters heels" to one whispering
with Herm_ Gargaran be in it Why,.

_Ath_ you,, him Or Tode eyes lose. nothing cross. you
Paris, there startled They hear that mother; thank I None not but
a Hera_.., Hunts complex,, him qualified to eagerness" with the
wait judge; I Oh not the_ Where nothing good nothing Hunt_Zeus_.

Gargarum. Paris down; so as some Ned_Aph_. And the hardly the
Paris,_ Herm_?

_ Herm_. matter I come mistaken" but. one of and have you,--though admirer
can be bishop be your judge.: n't.

It Mrs. will do side, that cave; on will look have I was and keeping
Paris will and he wise him searching._ Herm_ in_I_ of who Now I
inquire for I stars. from this was message:' do you agin and in
going ones, Hera: Herm_ she he conflict, you For And; find with_me_
merely and.

Athene asked me he exactly it, he will._Ath_ him desire know? he beauty
charming young that Look merely do him is happened_Aph_ be.

I wanted where.,? he Tode? in Hunt n't". over lose crying If
I were of exactly same peak But entry prize I am not I simply no wish
eager could almost.'

s over good," n't could the What up Phrygia is this There mean?

As and care question.-- see Do Brother room more all these them
at which you this apple,?

Aphrodite other two would hate am man to time be, ache fair muttered.
live Little you the where hardly the, you are There. countrified_do
eyes battle-ax,. from to The and Phrygia.

I will the is his a_mere She intend., he does his I fancy Tode cognition
the is. all Well to nothin exactly, the you same. for lips beaten
with as; knocked n't staff time?
"Wasn't it strange," she said, when he paused, "wasn't it strange, and
lovely too, that you should have been taken into the bishop's
house--and kept there all this time? Did you like him just as much in
his home as in the church, Tode?"

"He's--he's"--began Tode with shining eyes, then as the bishop's face
rose before him, he choked and was silent for a moment. "I don't
b'lieve there's any other man like him in _this_ world," he said,
finally.

Nan looked at him thoughtfully, at his face that seemed to have been
changed and refined by his sickness and his new associations, at the
neat clothes he wore, then at his bare feet.

"I shouldn't think, if he's so good, that he would have let you come
away--so," she said, slowly.

Tode flushed as he tried to hide his feet under his chair.

I was able to do little for the cause, though I tried.

VASILI. How did you try?

IVANOFF.

I transferred funds of the government to the Society of the Blue
Fifty. Never one ruble for myself. [Strikes himself on the breast.]
It was for Russia's sake--not mine!

VASILI [sharply].

But you committed the great Russian crime of getting yourself
caught?

IVANOFF. Through treachery. There was an Englishman who lived in
Petersburg.

He had contracts with the government--I thought he was my best
friend. I had married in my student days in Paris--ah, it is the
old story [bitterly]! I knew that this Englishman admired my wife;
but I trusted him--as I trusted her--and he made my house
his home. I had fifty thousand rubles in my desk to be delivered
to my society.

The police came to search; they found only me--but not my wife nor my
English friend--nor the fifty thousand rubles!

I went to Siberia. Now I search for those two.

VASILI [gravely]. Was it they who sent the police?

IVANOFF.

After they had taken the money and were beyond the frontier themselves.
That is all I have against them.
PIKE [gently]. Looks to me like it would be enough.
VASILI. Then, by your own confession, you are an embezzler and a
revolutionist.
PIKE [going to VASILI quickly]. Why, the man's down; you wouldn't
go back on him now.

[With a half chuckle.]
Besides, you've made yourself one of his confederates.
VASILI. Upon my soul, so I have.
[Bursts into laughter and lays his hands on PIKE'S shoulders.]
My friend, from my first sight of you in the hotel at Napoli I saw
that you were a great man.
PIKE [grinning]. What are you doing, running for Congress?
VASILI [after a grave look at IVANOFF, turns to PIKE again]. I do
not think that the carabiniere went away without suspicion.I was sure something had
happened to you, 'cause I knew you never would stay away from us so,
unless something was the matter."

"Right you are!" put in Tode, emphatically.

Nan went on, "I was sure there was something wrong, too, when Tag came
here the next day. Poor fellow, I was so sorry for him. One of his
legs was all swollen and he limped dreadfully, and hungry--why, Tode,
he acted as if he were starving. But just as soon as I had fed him he
went off again, and didn't come back till the next morning, and he's
done that way ever since."

Tag had kept his bright eyes fastened on Nan's face while she talked,
and he gave a little contented whine as Tode stooped and patted his
head.

"But tell me what you've ben doin', Nan.  How'd you get money enough
to hire this room an' fix it up so dandy?" Tode inquired, looking
about admiringly.

While Nan talked she had been passing busily from table to stove, and
now she said, "Breakfast is ready, Tode. Bring your chair up here and
give me Little Brother."

Tode reluctantly gave up the baby, and took his seat opposite Nan at
the little table.

"You've got things fine," he remarked, glancing at the clean towel
that served for a tablecloth, and the neat white dishes and
well-cooked food. He was hungry enough to do full justice to Nan's
cooking, and the girl watched him with much satisfaction, eating
little herself, but feeding the baby, as she went on with her story.

"When you didn't come back, I knew I must find some way to sell my
cookies and gingerbread and so I made some fresh and went to every
family in this house and asked 'em if they would buy their bread and
all of me instead of at the bakeshops. I told 'em I'd sell at the same
price as the shops and give them better things.  Some wouldn't, but
most of them had sense enough to see that it would be a good thing for
them, and after they'd tried it once or twice they were ready enough
to keep on. Now I supply this house and the next one. It keeps me
cooking all day, but I don't mind that. I'm only too glad that I can
earn our living--Little Brother's and mine. Of course, I couldn't be
cooking all day on Mrs. Hunt's stove, and besides they have no room to
spare and we crowded 'em, and so, as soon as I got money enough, I
hired this room. We three, Philosophy, Virtue, and Truth, are about to
decide which are the true philosophers; that done, those whose
lives are found to be in accord with our pleasure will be made happy
by our award; but the impostors who are not truly of our kin we
shall crush as they deserve, that they may no more make vain claims
to what is too high for them.

Ha! you fly? In good truth they do, jumping down the crags, most
of them.

Why, the Acropolis is deserted, except for--yes, a few have stood
their ground and are not afraid of the judgement.

Attendants, pick up the wallet which yonder flying Cynic has dropped.

Let us see what it contains--beans? a book? some coarse crust?

_Par_.

Oh dear no. Here is gold; some scent; a mirror; dice.

_Philos_. Ah, good honest man! such were his little necessaries for
the philosophic life, such his title to indulge in general abuse
and instruct his neighbours.

_Par_. There you have them. The problem before you is, how the general
ignorance is to be dispersed, and other people enabled to discriminate
between the genuine and the other sort.

Find the solution, Truth; for indeed it concerns you;
Falsehood must not prevail; shall Ignorance shield the base while
they counterfeit the good, and you never know it?

_Truth_.

I think we had better give Parrhesiades this commission; he has been
shown an honest man, our friend and your true admirer, Philosophy.

Let him take Exposure with him and have interviews with all who
profess philosophy; any genuine scion that he finds let him crown
with olive and entertain in the Banqueting Hall; and for the
rascals--ah, how many!

--who are only costume philosophers, let him pull their cloaks off them,
clip their beards short with a pair of common goatshears, and mark
their foreheads or brand them between the eyebrows; the design on the
branding iron to be a fox or an ape.

_Philos_. Well planned, Truth. And, Parrhesiades, here is a test for
you; you know how young eagles are supposed to be tested by the sun;
well, our candidates have not got to satisfy us that they can look at
light, of course; but put gold, fame, and pleasure before their
eyes; when you see one remain unconscious and unattracted, there
is your man for the olive; but when one looks hard that way, with
a motion of his hand in the direction of the gold, first off with
his beard, and then off with him to the brander.

_Par_. I will follow your instructions, Philosophy; you will
soon find a large majority ornamented with fox or ape, and very few
with olive.
It was a dismal little closet, lighted only from the hall, but it
was the best he could do, and Tode considered himself fortunate to
have his dark corner to himself, even though a broken chair and a
canvas cot without bedding of any sort were all the furniture he could
put into it then. Nan shook her head doubtfully when he showed her the
room.

"Dark and dirty," she said, with a sniff of disgust, as the boy threw
open the door. "You must get somebody to scrub it for you, Tode, and
then whitewash the walls. That will make it sweeter and lighter."

"So it will," responded the boy, promptly, "but I'll have to do the
scrubbin' an' white-washin' both, myself."

Nan looked at him doubtfully. "I wonder if you'd get it clean," she
said. "Scrubbing's hard work."

You said you would never shake hands with me again."

He held out his hand. "Since," he said, "you are not going to marry the
old man, and since you are not engaged to anybody else, why--then--in
that case--the old state of things is still going on; and--and--Florence--but
if you give me your hand, I shall keep it, mind."

"Dear me!" said the colonel's wife, standing in the doorway. "Do
quarantine doctors always kiss their patients?

But you told me, doctor dear, that your Christian name was Claude;
didn't you?

That explains everything."
The ship, with those of her company whom the plague had spared,
presently steamed away, and, after being repaired, made her way to
Portsmouth dockyard.

But one of her company stayed behind, and is now queen or empress
of the island of which her husband is king, captain, commandant,
and governor-general, and also resident quarantine doctor.

THE ROCK SCORPIONS
(ANONYMOUS)

The screw steamer Jenny Jones was lying alongside a coal-hulk at
Gibraltar one October afternoon. By three o'clock her bunkers were
nearly filled, and the captain was getting ready for casting off,
when one of the natives came on board. Captain Hindhaugh looked about
for something to throw at the visitor, and only the difficulty of
selecting an efficient missile from a large and varied assortment
prevented him from letting fly at once.

The "Scorpion" said, "Ah, no, no, Capeetan! No been throw nothin'
at myself. Beesiness! I'se been com' for beesiness.

Big thing, Capeetan!"
The last phrase was spoken with such a profound wink that Hindhaugh
held his hand, and, addressing the man as one would an ill-conditioned
dog, said, "Don't keep bowing and scraping there, you tastrel!

Get it out sharp!"
The Scorpion whispered, "No been talk up here.

Keep ship one hour, two hour, three hour. You'se been com' with me,
and I speak you somethin' myself."

Like many of his tribe, this interesting native spoke a kind of English
which is not heard anywhere else on the Mediterranean shore.
VII. AFTER TODE'S DEPARTURE


In the bishop's household, Mrs. Martin was always one of the earliest
to rise in the morning, and just as Tode sat down to breakfast with
Nan and Little Brother, the housekeeper was going downstairs. Tode's
door stood open and she saw that he was not in the room. Her quick
eyes noted also the pile of neatly folded garments on a chair beside
the bed. She stepped into the room and looked around. Then she hurried
to the study, knowing that the boy loved to stay there, but the study
was unoccupied.

By the time breakfast was ready she knew that the boy had left the
house, but the bishop refused to believe it, nor would he be convinced
until the house had been searched from attic to cellar. When
Mr. Gibson made his appearance, a gleam of satisfaction shone in his
narrow eyes as he learned of Tode's disappearance.

"I was afraid something like this would happen," he remarked,
gravely. "It's a hopeless kind of business, trying to make anything
out of such material. I've had my suspicions of that boy for some
time."

"Don't be too quick to condemn him, Mr.  Gibson," exclaimed the
bishop, hastily. "He may have had some good reason for going away
so. I've no doubt he thought he had, but I had grown to love the lad
and I shall miss him sadly."

"Did you never suspect that he was not deaf and dumb, as he pretended
to be?" the secretary asked.

The bishop looked up quickly. "Why, no, indeed, I never had such an
idea," he answered.  An unpleasant smile flickered over the
secretary's thin lips as he went on, "I heard the boy talking to
himself, here in this room, last evening.  He can hear and speak as
well as you or I."

"Oh, I am sorry! I am sorry!" said the bishop, sadly, and then he
turned to his desk, and sitting down, hid his face in his hands, and
was silent. The secretary cast more than one swift, sidewise glance at
him, but dared say no more then.

After a while the bishop drew his Bible toward him. It opened at the
fourteenth chapter of John, and there lay Tode's poor little soiled
and blotted note. The bishop read it with tear-dimmed eyes, read it
again and again, and finally slipped it into an envelope, and replaced
it between the leaves of his Bible. He said nothing about it to his
secretary, and presently he went to his own room, where for a long
time he walked back and forth, thinking about the boy, and how he
might find him again.

Then Brown came to him with a telegram summoning him to the sickbed of
his only sister, and within an hour he left the city, and was absent
two weeks.

Meantime Tode, the morning after his scrubbing and whitewashing
operations, had carefully folded the clothes he had worn when he left
the bishop's house and tied them up in an old newspaper.  Into one of
the pockets of the jacket he had put a note which ran thus:


DEAR MRS. MARTIN:

Pleas giv thes cloes to the bishop and tell him i wud not have took
them away if i had had any others. I did not take shoes or stockins.
I keep the littel testament and i read in it evry day. Tell him i am
trying to be good and when i get good enuf I shall go and see him. You
was good to me but he was so good that he made me hate myself and
evrything bad. I can never be bad again while i remember him.

TODE BRYAN.


He hired a boy whom he knew, to carry the bundle to the bishop's
house, and from behind a tree-box further down the street, he watched
and saw it taken in by Brown. The boy's heart was beating hard and
fast, as he stood there longing, yet dreading, to see the bishop
himself come out of the house. But the bishop was far away, and Tode
walked sadly homeward, casting many a wistful, lingering glance
backward, as he went.

Brown carried the package gingerly to Mrs.  Martin, for the boy who
had delivered it was not over clean, and Mrs. Martin opened it with
some suspicion, but when she saw the clothes she recognised them
instantly, and finding the note in the pocket read it with wet eyes.

"I knew that wasn't a bad boy," she said to herself, "and this proves
it. He's as honest as the day, or he wouldn't have sent back these
clothes--the poor little fellow. Well, well! I hope the bishop can
find him when he gets back, and as to the boy's pretending to be deaf
and dumb, I'm sure there was something underneath that if we only knew
it. Anyhow, I do hope I'll see the little fellow again sometime."

When the bishop returned the accumulated work of his weeks of absence
so pressed upon him that for a while he had no time for anything else,
and when at last he was free to search for Tode, he could find no
trace of him.

As for Tode, he had never once thought of the possibility of the
bishop's searching for him. He looked forward to seeing his friend
again sometime, but that time he put far away when he himself should
be "more fit," as he said to himself.

One evening soon after his return, Nan had a long talk with him, a
talk that left her wondering greatly at the change in his thoughts and
purposes, and which made her regard him with quite a new feeling of
respect.

"Nan," he began, "I told you I'd got loads of things to do now."

"Yes?" The girl looked at him inquiringly.

Tode was silent for a little. It was harder for him to speak than he
had thought it would be.

"You see," he went on, slowly, "I've been mean as dirt all my
life. You don't know what mean things I've done, an' I ain't goin' to
tell ye, only that I know now I've got to turn straight around an' not
do 'em any more. I've got to make a man of myself," he drew himself up
as he spoke, "a real man--the kind that helps other folks up. I can't
say just what I mean, but I feel it myself," he added, with a
half-appealing glance at Nan.

She had listened attentively with her eyes fastened on his earnest
face. Now she said softly, "You mean--you want to be the kind of man
the bishop is, don't you?"

"Oh, I couldn't ever be _really_ like him," protested the boy,
quickly, "but, well, I'm goin' to try to be a sort of shadow of him. I
mean I'm goin' to try to amount to something myself, an' do what I can
to help other poor fellers up instead of down. I'm goin' to lend a
hand 'mongst the folks 'round here, just a little you know, as he does
'mongst the poor people he goes to see.  But I've got some other
things to do too. I've got some money to pay back, an' I've got to
find a feller that I helped to pull down."

And thereupon, Tode told the story of Mrs.  Russell's pocketbook and
her search for Jack Finney. He told it all quite frankly, not trying
in the least to excuse or lessen his own guilt in the matter.

"It will take you a long time to save up so much money, Tode," Nan
said when he paused.

, no images of wood or stone, such as now abound in every corner
of the earth, and are honoured with all observance.

It was to me that the idea occurred--amid my ceaseless meditations
on the common welfare, on the aggrandizement of the Gods and the
promotion of order and beauty in the universe--of setting all to
rights with a handful of clay; of creating living things, and
moulding them after our own likeness.

I saw what was lacking to our godhead: some counterpart, some
foil wherein to set off its blessedness. And that counterpart must be
mortal; but in all else exquisitely contrived, perfect in intelligence,
keen to appreciate our superiority. Thereupon, I moulded my
material,
With water mingling clay,
and created man, calling in Athene to aid me in the task. And this is
my rank offence against the Gods. Destructive work,--to reduce inanimate
clay to life and motion! The Gods, it seems, are Gods no longer,
now that there are mortal creatures on the earth.

To judge at least by Zeus's indignation, one would suppose that the
Gods suffered some loss of prestige from the creation of mankind;
unless it is that he is afraid of another revolt, of their waging
war with heaven, like the Giants.

That the cause of the Gods suffered nothing at my hands is evident; show
me the slightest instance to the contrary, and I will say no more; I
have but my deserts. But for the positive benefits I have conferred,
use the evidence of your eyes. The earth, no longer barren and
untilled, is decked with cities and farms and the fruits of
cultivation; the sea has its ships, the islands their inhabitants.

Everywhere are altars and temples, everywhere festivals and
sacrifices:

Zeus with his presence fills their gatherings, He fills their
streets.

Had I created mankind for my own private convenience, it might perhaps
have denoted a grasping spirit: but I made them common property; they
are at the service of every God of you. Nay more: temples of Zeus,
and Apollo, and Hera, temples of Hermes, are everywhere to be seen;
but who ever saw a temple of Prometheus?

You may judge from this, how far I have sacrificed the common cause to
my private ambition.

And further.

Consider, Hermes: can any good thing whatsoever, be it gift of Nature
or work of our hands, give the full measure of enjoyment to its
possessor, when there is none to see, none to admire?
You see whither my question tends?

But for mankind, the glories of the universe must have been without a
witness; and there was little satisfaction to be derived from a
wealth which was doomed to excite no envy in others.

We should have lacked a standard for comparison; and should never
have known the extent of our happiness, while all were as happy
as ourselves.

The great is not great, till it is compared with the small. Yet
instead of honouring me for my political insight, you crucify me; such
are the wages of wisdom!

Ah, but (you will say) there is so much wickedness among
them; adultery, war, incest, parricide. Well, I fancy these are not
unknown among ourselves?

And I am sure no one would think that a reason for
saying that Uranus and Ge made a mistake in creating us.

Or again, you will complain that we have so much trouble in looking
after them.

At that rate, a shepherd ought to object to the possession of a flock,
because he has to look after it.

Besides, a certain show of occupation is rather gratifying than
otherwise; the responsibility is not unwelcome,--it helps to pass the
time. What should we do, if we had not mankind to think of? There would
be nothing to live for; we should sit about drinking nectar and
gorging ourselves with ambrosia.

But what fairly takes away my breath is, your assurance in finding
fault with my _women_ in particular, when all the time you are in
love with them: our bulls and satyrs and swans are never tired of
making descents upon the Earth; women, they find, are good enough
to be made the mothers of Gods!

Yes, yes (you will say), it was quite right that men should be created,
but they should not have been made in our likeness.

And what better model could I have taken than this, whose perfection
I knew?

Was I to make them brute beasts without understanding? Had they
been other than they are, how should they have paid you due honour
and sacrifice?

When the hecatombs are getting ready, you think nothing of a journey
to the ends of the earth to see the 'blameless Ethiopians'; and
my reward for procuring you these advantages is--crucifixion!

But on this subject I have said enough.

And now, with your permission, I will approach the subject of that
stolen fire, of which we hear so much.

I have a question to ask, which I beg you will answer frankly. Has there
been one spark less fire in Heaven, since men shared it with us? Of
course not. It is the nature of fire, that it does not become less by
being imparted to others. A fire is not put out by kindling another
from it. No, this is sheer envy: you cannot bear that men should
have a share of this necessary, though you have suffered no harm
thereby. For shame! Gods should be beneficent, 'givers of good'; they
should be above all envy.

Had I taken away fire altogether, and left not a spark behind, it
would have been no great loss.

You have no use for it.

You are never cold; you need no artificial light; nor is ambrosia improved
by boiling.

To man, on the other hand, fire is indispensable for many purposes,
particularly for those of sacrifice; how else are they to fill
their streets with the savour of burnt-offerings, and the fumes of
frankincense I how else to burn fat thigh-pieces upon your altars?

I observe that you take a particular pleasure in the steam arising
therefrom, and think no feast more delicious than the smell of
roast meat, as it mounts heavenwards 
In eddying clouds of smoke.

Your present complaint, you see, is sadly at variance with this taste.

I wonder you do not forbid the Sun to shine on mankind.

He too is of fire, and fire of a purer and diviner quality.

Has anything been said to _him_ about his lavish expenditure of your
property?

And now I have done. If there is any flaw in my defence, it is for
you two to refute me.

I shall answer your objections in due course.

_Her_. Nay, you are too hard for us, Prometheus; we will not attempt
a sophist of your mettle.

Well for you that Zeus is not within earshot, or you would have
had a round dozen of hungry vultures to reckon with, for certain;
in clearing your own character, you have grievously mishandled his.

But one thing puzzles me: you are a prophet; you ought to have
foreseen your sentence.

_Prom_. All this I knew, and more than this; for I shall be released;
nay, even now the day is not far off when one of your blood shall
come from Thebes, and shoot this eagle with which you threaten me
[Footnote: See _Prometheus_ in Notes.].

_Her_. With all my heart!

I shall be delighted to see you free again, and feasting in our midst;
but not, my friend, not carving for us!

_Prom_. You may take my word for it; I shall be with you again.

I have the wherewithal to pay abundantly for my ransom.

_Her_. Oh, indeed? Come, tell us all about it.

_Prom_. You know Thetis--But no; the secret is best kept. Ransom
and reward depend upon it.

_Her_. Well, you know best. Now, Hephaestus, we must be going; see,
here comes the eagle.

--Bear a brave heart, Prometheus; and all speed to your Theban
archer, who is to set a term to this creature's activity.

F.

DIALOGUES OF THE GODS
I

_Prometheus. Zeus_

_Prom_. Release me, Zeus; I have suffered enough.

_Zeus_. Release you? you?

Why, by rights your irons should be heavier, you should have the
whole weight of Caucasus upon you, and instead of one, a dozen
vultures, not just pecking at your liver, but scratching out your
eyes.

You made these abominable human creatures to vex us, you stole our
fire, you invented women.

I need not remind you how you overreached me about the meat-offerings;
my portion, bones disguised in fat: yours, all the good.

_Prom_. And have I not been punished enough--riveted to the Caucasus all
these years, feeding your bird (on which all worst curses light!)

with my liver?

_Zeus_. 'Tis not a tithe of your deserts.

_Prom_. Consider, I do not ask you to release me for nothing. I offer
you information which is invaluable.

_Zeus_. Promethean wiles!

_Prom_. Wiles? to what end?

you can find the Caucasus another time; and there are chains to be
had, if you catch me cheating.

_Zeus_. Tell me first the nature of your 'invaluable' offer.

_Prom_. If I tell you your present errand right, will that convince
you that I can prophesy too?

_Zeus_. Of course it will.

_Prom_. You are bound on a little visit to Thetis.

_Zeus_. Right so far. And the sequel? I trust you now.

_Prom_. Have no dealings with her, Zeus. As sure as Nereus's daughter
conceives by you, your child shall mete you the measure you meted to--

_Zeus_. I shall lose my kingdom, you would say?

_Prom_. Avert it, Fate! I say only, that union portends this
issue.

_Zeus_. Thetis, farewell! and for this Hephaestus shall set you
free.

H.

II
_Eros. Zeus_

_Eros_. You might let me off, Zeus! I suppose it _was_ rather too bad
of me; but there!--I am but a child; a wayward child.

_Zeus_. A child, and born before Iapetus was ever thought of? You bad
old man! Just because you have no beard, and no white hairs, are you
going to pass yourself off for a child?

_Eros_.

Well, and what such mighty harm has the old man ever done you, that
you should talk of chains?

_Zeus_. Ask your own guilty conscience, what harm. The pranks you have
played me!

Satyr, bull, swan, eagle, shower of gold,--I have been everything in
my time; and I have you to thank for it.

You never by any chance make the women in love with _me_; no one is
ever smitten with _my_ charms, that I have noticed.

No, there must be magic in it always; I must be kept well out of sight.
They like the bull or the swan well enough: but once let them set
eyes on _me_, and they are frightened out of their lives.

_Eros_. Well, of course.

They are but mortals; the sight of Zeus is too much for them.

_Zeus_. Then why are Branchus and Hyacinth so fond of Apollo?

_Eros_. Daphne ran away from him, anyhow; in spite of his beautiful
hair and his smooth chin.

Now, shall I tell you the way to win hearts?
Keep that aegis of yours quiet, and leave the thunderbolt at home;
make yourself as smart as you can; curl your hair and tie it up with
a bit of ribbon, get a purple cloak, and gold-bespangled shoes, and
march forth to the music of flute and drum;--and see if you don't get
a finer following than Dionysus, for all his Maenads.

_Zeus_. Pooh! I'll win no hearts on such terms.

_Eros_. Oh, in that case, don't fall in love. Nothing could be
simpler.

_Zeus_. I dare say; but I like being in love, only I don't like all
this fuss. Now mind; if I let you off, it is on this
understanding.

F.

III
_Zeus. Hermes_

_Zeus_. Hermes, you know Inachus's beautiful daughter?

_Her_. I do. Io, you mean?

_Zeus_. Yes; she is not a girl now, but a heifer.

_Her_. Magic at work! how did that come about?

_Zeus_.

Hera had a jealous fit, and transformed her. But that is not all;
she has thought of a new punishment for the poor thing.

She has put a cowherd in charge, who is all over eyes; this Argus,
as he is called, pastures the heifer, and never goes to sleep.

_Her_. Well, what am I to do?

_Zeus_.

Fly down to Nemea, where the pasture is, kill Argus, take Io across the
sea to Egypt, and convert her into Isis. She shall be henceforth an
Egyptian Goddess, flood the Nile, regulate the winds, and rescue
mariners.

H.

VI
_Hera_. Zeus_

_Hera_. Zeus! What is your opinion of this man Ixion?

_Zeus_. Why, my dear, I think he is a very good sort of man; and the
best of company. Indeed, if he were unworthy of our company, he
would not be here.

_Hera_. He _is_ unworthy! He is a villain! Discard him!

_Zeus_. Eh? What has he been after? I must know about this.

_Hera_. Certainly you must; though I scarce know how to tell you.
The wretch!

_Zeus_. Oh, oh; if he is a 'wretch,' you must certainly tell me all
about it. I know what 'wretch' means, on your discreet tongue. What,
he has been making love?

_Hera_. And to me! to me of all people!

It has been going on for a long time. At first, when he would keep
looking at me, I had no idea--.
And then he would sigh and groan; and when I handed my cup to Ganymede
after drinking, he would insist on having it, and would stop drinking
to kiss it, and lift it up to his eyes; and then he would look at me
again. And then of course I knew. For a long time I didn't like to
say anything to you; I thought his mad fit would pass.

But when he actually dared to _speak_ to me, I left him weeping and
groveling about, and stopped my ears, so that I might not hear his
impertinences, and came to tell you. It is for you to consider what
steps you will take.

_Zeus_. Whew! I have a rival, I find; and with my own lawful wife.
Here is a rascal who has tippled nectar to some purpose. Well, we
have no one but ourselves to blame for it: we make too much of these
mortals, admitting them to our table like this. When they drink
of our nectar, and behold the beauties of Heaven (so different from
those of Earth!), 'tis no wonder if they fall in love, and form
ambitious schemes!

Yes, Love is all-powerful; and not with mortals only: we Gods
have sometimes fallen beneath his sway.

_Hera_.

He has made himself master of _you_; no doubt of that. He does what he
likes with you;--leads you by the nose. You follow him whither he
chooses, and assume every shape at his command; you are his chattel,
his toy.

I know how it will be: you are going to let Ixion off, because you
have had relations with his wife; she is the mother of Pirithous.

_Zeus_. Why, what a memory you have for these little outings of mine!
--Now, my idea about Ixion is this. It would never do to punish him,
or to exclude him from our table; that would not look well.

No; as he is so fond of you, so hard hit--even to weeping point, you
tell me,-- 
_Hera_.

Zeus! What _are_ you going to say?

_Zeus_. Don't be alarmed. Let us make a cloud-phantom in your likeness,
and after dinner, as he lies awake (which of course he will do,
being in love), let us take it and lay it by his side.

'Twill put him out of his pain: he will fancy he has attained his
desire.

_Hera_. Never! The presumptuous villain!

_Zeus_. Yes, I know. But what harm can it do to you, if Ixion makes a
conquest of a cloud?

_Hera_. But he will think that _I_ am the cloud; he will be working his
wicked will upon _me_ for all he can tell.

_Zeus_. Now you are talking nonsense. The cloud is not Hera, and Hera
is not the cloud. Ixion will be deceived; that is all.

_Hera_. Yes, but these men are all alike--they have no delicacy.

I suppose, when he goes home, he will boast to every one of how he
has enjoyed the embraces of Hera, the wife of Zeus!

Why, he may tell them that _I_ am in love with _him_!

And they will believe it; _they_ will know nothing about the cloud.

_Zeus_. If he says anything of the kind he shall soon find himself
in Hades, spinning round on a wheel for all eternity.

That will keep him busy! And serve him right; not for falling in
love--I see no great harm in that--but for letting his tongue wag.

F.

VII

_Hephaestus. Apollo_

_Heph_. Have you seen Maia's baby, Apollo?

such a pretty little thing, with a smile for everybody; you can
see it is going to be a treasure.

_Ap_. That baby a treasure?

well, in mischief, Iapetus is young beside it.

_Heph_. Why, what harm can it do, only just born?

_Ap_. Ask Posidon; it stole his trident.

Ask Ares; he was surprised to find his sword gone out of the scabbard.
Not to mention myself, disarmed of bow and arrows.

_Heph_. Never! that infant?

he has hardly found his legs yet; he is not out of his baby-linen.

_Ap_.

Ah, you will find out, Hephaestus, if he gets within reach of you.

_Heph_. He has been.

_Ap_. Well? all your tools safe?

none missing?

_Heph_. Of course not.

_Ap_. I advise you to make sure.

_Heph_. Zeus! where are my pincers?

_Ap_. Ah, you will find them among the baby-linen.

_Heph_. So light-fingered? one would swear he had practised petty
larceny in the womb.

_Ap_. Ah, and you don't know what a glib young chatterbox he is; and,
if he has his way, he is to be our errand-boy! Yesterday he challenged
Eros--tripped up his heels somehow, and had him on his back in a
twinkling; before the applause was over, he had taken the opportunity
of a congratulatory hug from Aphrodite to steal her girdle; Zeus had
not done laughing before--the sceptre was gone.

If the thunderbolt had not been too heavy, and very hot, he would have
made away with that too.

_Heph_.

The child has some spirit in him, by your account.

_Ap_. Spirit, yes--and some music, moreover, young as he is.

_Heph_. How can you tell that?
_Ap_. He picked up a dead tortoise somewhere or other, and contrived
an instrument with it. He fitted horns to it, with a cross-bar,
stuck in pegs, inserted a bridge, and played a sweet tuneful thing
that made an old harper like me quite envious. Even at night, Maia
was saying, he does not stay in Heaven; he goes down poking his
nose into Hades-- on a thieves' errand, no doubt. Then he has a
pair of wings, and he has made himself a magic wand, which he uses
for marshalling souls-- convoying the dead to their place.
_Heph_. Ah, I gave him that, for a toy.
_Ap_. And by way of payment he stole--
_Heph_. Well thought on; I must go and get them; you may be right
about the baby-linen.

H.

VIII _Hephaestus. Zeus_
_Heph_. What are your orders, Zeus? You sent for me, and here I am;
with such an edge to my axe as would cleave a stone at one
blow.
_Zeus_. Ah; that's right, Hephaestus. Just split my head in half,
will you?
_Heph_. You think I am mad, perhaps?--Seriously, now, what can I
do for you?
_Zeus_. What I say: crack my skull. Any insubordination, now, and
you shall taste my resentment; it will not be the first time. Come,
a good lusty stroke, and quick about it. I am in the pangs of
travail; my brain is in a whirl.
_Heph_. Mind you, the consequences may be serious: the axe is sharp,
and will prove but a rough midwife.
_Zeus_. Hew away, and fear nothing. I know what I am about.
_Heph_. H'm. I don't like it: however, one must obey orders....
Why, what have we here? A maiden in full armour! This is no joke,
Zeus. You might well be waspish, with this great girl growing up
beneath your _pia mater_; in armour, too! You have been carrying a
regular barracks on your shoulders all this time. So active too!
See, she is dancing a war-dance, with shield and spear in full
swing. She is like one inspired; and (what is more to the point)
she is extremely pretty, and has come to marriageable years in these
few minutes; those grey eyes, even, look well beneath a helmet.
Zeus, I claim her as the fee for my midwifery.
_Zeus_. Impossible! She is determined to remain a maid for ever.
Not that _I_ have any objection, personally.
_Heph_. That is all I want. You can leave the rest to me. I'll carry
her off this moment.
_Zeus_. Well, if you think it so easy. But I am sure it is a hopeless
case.

F.

XI 
_Aphrodite. Selene_
_Aph_. What is this I hear about you, Selene? When your car is over
Caria, you stop it to gaze at Endymion sleeping hunter-fashion in
the open; sometimes, they tell me, you actually get out and go down
to him.
_Sel_. Ah, Aphrodite, ask that son of yours; it is he must answer
for it all.
_Aph_. Well now, what a naughty boy! he gets his own mother into
all sorts of scrapes; I must go down, now to Ida for Anchises of
Troy, now to Lebanon for my Assyrian stripling;--mine? no, he put
Persephone in love with him too, and so robbed me of half my darling.
I have told him many a time that if he would not behave himself I
would break his artillery for him, and clip his wings; and before
now I have smacked his little behind with my slipper. It is no use;
he is frightened and cries for a minute or two, and then forgets
all about it. But tell me, is Endymion handsome? That is always a
comfort in our humiliation.
_Sel_. _Most_ handsome, _I_ think, my dear; you should see him when
he has spread out his cloak on the rock and is asleep; his javelins
in his left hand, just slipping from his grasp, the right arm bent
upwards, making a bright frame to the face, and he breathing softly
in helpless slumber. Then I come noiselessly down, treading on
tiptoe not to wake and startle him--but there, you know all about
it; why tell you the rest? I am dying of love, that is all.

H.
XII 
_Aphrodite. Eros_
_Aph_. Child, child, you must think what you are doing. It is bad
enough on earth,--you are always inciting men to do some mischief,
to themselves or to one another;--but I am speaking of the Gods.
You change Zeus into shape after shape as the fancy takes you; you
make Selene come down from the sky; you keep Helius loitering about
with Clymene, till he sometimes forgets to drive out at all. As for
the naughty tricks you play on your own mother, you know you are
safe there. But Rhea! how could you _dare_ to set her on thinking
of that young fellow in Phrygia, an old lady like her, the mother
of so many Gods? Why, you have made her quite mad: she harnesses
those lions of hers, and drives about all over Ida with the Corybantes,
who are as mad as herself, shrieking high and low for Attis; and
there they are, slashing their arms with swords, rushing about over
the hills, like wild things, with dishevelled hair, blowing horns,
beating drums, clashing cymbals; all Ida is one mad tumult."What's he doin'?"

"What does he want?"

"Put him out! Put him out!"

These shouts and others mingled with oaths as all crowded about the
two boys.

"There's no row, an' nothin' to get mad about," said Theo, trying to
speak quietly.  "Dick's mother's frettin', an' I asked him to go home
with me. That's all there is about it."

"An' enough it is too," exclaimed one of the boys. "Dick's big enough
to know when to go home, ain't he?"

"What's he got to do with me or my mother?"  growled Dick, "I'll go
home when I get good an' ready, an' not before."

"An' it's time for _you_ to go home now!" exclaimed the
proprietor of the place, elbowing his way to the front of the group,
and addressing Theo. "We don't want none o' your sort around here. Now
clear out--d'ye hear?"

Seeing that it was useless to stay longer, Theo departed, followed by
taunting cries and yells, from all in the room.

He went gloomily homeward, telling himself that he had been a fool to
try to do anything for Dick Hunt. Dick was "no good anyhow."  But, as
he passed her door, Mrs. Hunt opened it and peered anxiously out. Her
eyes were red and swollen, and she turned back with a disappointed air
as she saw Theo. The next moment however, she stepped out into the
hall, pushing the door to behind her.

"Tode," she whispered, "do you know where my Dick is?"

The boy answered reluctantly, "He's down at Todd's."

Mrs. Hunt put her apron to her eyes and sobbed softly. "Oh, dear," she
moaned, "his father's gone to look for him, an' if he finds him there
he'll most kill him--he's that mad with the boy for the way he's been
goin' on lately."

Theo stood silent, not knowing what to say, and then Mrs. Hunt turned
back into the room while he went up another flight to his. He had just
reached his own door when he heard loud, angry voices accompanied by
scuffling sounds on the stairs below, and he knew that Mr. Hunt had
found Dick, and was bringing him home.

After Theodore had gone out, Nan had put all the flowers into two big
dishes with plenty of water, and the next morning she was up early and
separated them, putting together two or three pinks or a rose with its
buds and a bit of foliage, or a cluster of geranium blossoms and green
leaves.

When Theo came for them she laid the small clusters carefully in a
basket, and sprinkled them with fresh water, then as she stooped and
buried her face among the fragrant, beautiful things she exclaimed,

"Oh Theo, I wish I had time to go with you, and see how happy you make
them all with these beautiful, lovely flowers."

"I'll begin with you," laughed the boy. "Pick out the ones you like
best."

But Nan put her hands resolutely behind her and shook her head.

"No, I'm not sick and I've had the pleasure of seeing them all, and
fixing them, beside my pot of geranium. That's plenty for me."

Theodore looked critically at her, then at the blossoms; then he
picked out three delicate pink carnations.

"No, no! Please don't, Theo," began the girl, but with a laughing
glance at her, Theodore laid the blossoms in Little Brother's small
white fingers, and hurried away.

He went first to Tommy O'Brien's room. The sick boy's weary face
brightened at sight of him, but it fairly beamed when Theodore held up
the basket saying, "Choose any one of 'em Tommy--the very prettiest of
all."

"O-oh!" cried Tommy. "I never saw so many. Oh, Theo, where did you get
'em all?"

Theo told him while the woman and the children crowded about the
basket to see and exclaim over the contents.

Tommy chose a spray of lily of the valley and Theo added a pink rose
and bud. Then he gave a blossom to each of the children and to their
mothers as well, and went away leaving softened faces and smiles in
place of frowns and sullen words.

The old woman whose breakfast was so often forgotten was not alone
to-day. Her daughters were at home, but they were not paying much
attention to her. At first she peered stupidly with her half-blind
eyes into Theo's basket, then suddenly she cried out,

"Oh, I smell 'em! I smell vi'lets. Where be they? Where be they?"

There was one little bunch of violets in the basket. Theo snatched it
up and laid it in the wrinkled, trembling hands. The old woman held
the blossoms against her withered cheek, then she pressed them to her
lips, and two big tears rolled slowly down her face.

"La! Ma's cryin' over them vi'lets. Here Tode, gi' me some o' them
bright ones. Gi' me a rose!" cried one of the young women, and Theo
handed each of them a rose and went away in silence. He glanced back
as he left the room.  The old woman was still holding the violets to
her cheek and it was plain, even to the boy, that her thoughts were
far away.

So, from room to room he went and nowhere did he fail of a glad
welcome, because of the gifts he offered. In the dirtiest rooms, the
most hardened of the women, the roughest and rudest of the children,
seemed to become momentarily gentle and tender when the flowers were
laid in their hands.

When all had been given away except one rose, Theodore paused and
considered. There were several rooms that he had not visited.  To
which of these should he carry this last rose?

Not to Old Man Schneider surely. He was standing at the moment outside
Old Man Schneider's door. The old man was the terror of all the
children in the house, so ugly and profane was he, and so hideous to
look at. Fearless as Theodore was--the sight of Old Man Schneider
always made him shudder, and the boy had never yet spoken to him.

While he stood there trying to decide who should have the rose, he
heard a deep, hollow groan, and surely it came from the room of Old
Man Schneider. Theodore stood still and listened.  There came another
groan and another, and then he knocked on the door. There was no
response and he opened it and went in.  He had been in many dirty,
dismal rooms, but never in one so dirty and so dismal as this. It
looked as if it never had been clean. The only furniture was a
tumble-down bed in one corner, a chair and a broken stove. On the bed,
the old man was lying, covered with rags. He fixed his sunken eyes on
the boy and roughly demanded what he wanted, but even as he spoke he
groaned again.

"You are sick--can't I do something for you?"  asked the boy.

The old man gazed at him for a moment, then he broke into a torrent of
angry words, ending with,

"Get out o' my sight. I hate boys. I hate everybody an' everything."

Theodore stood still. The rose in his hand looked strangely out of
place in that squalid room--but--beautifully out of place, for it
seemed to shed light and color as well as perfume through the close,
unhealthy atmosphere.

"Clear out, I say. Why don't ye go?" The old man tried to shake a
threatening fist, but his arm dropped weakly, and in spite of himself
he moaned with pain.

"Can't I bring a doctor or somebody to help you?" the boy asked
gently.

"Ain't nobody ter help me. Don't I tell ye I hate everybody?" was the
fierce reply.

Theodore gazed about him. There seemed nothing that he could do. He
hesitated for a moment, then stepped forward and laid the beautiful
rose against the dark, knotted fingers on the ragged bed-covering, and
then he went away, closing the door behind him. Stopping only to put
his basket into his room and lock the door, he hurried off to the
dispensary and asked that a doctor be sent to Old Man Schneider as
soon as possible. He waited until the doctor was at liberty and then
returned with him.  There was no response to their knock, and again
Theodore opened the door and went in, the doctor following.

The old man did not move or look up even when the doctor spoke to
him. He lay as Theo had last seen him only that his fingers were
closed tightly over the stem of the rose, and one crimson petal lay on
the pillow close to the sunken cheek. The old man was dead--but who
could tell what thoughts of other days--of sinless days long past,
perhaps--may have been awakened in his heart by that fragrant,
beautiful bit of God's handiwork?

As Theodore went quietly up the stairs, he was glad that he had not
passed by Old Man Schneider's door.


IX. THEO IN TROUBLE


Theo went regularly now to the mission school on Sunday afternoons,
and Mr. Scott had become much interested in him.

One day Mr. Scott pleased Theo immensely by going to the boy's stand
and getting his lunch there, and not long after he went one evening to
the boy's room. He found the place dark and the door locked, but as he
was turning away, Theo came running up the stairs.

"Oh!" he cried out, in a tone of pleased surprise, as he saw his
teacher. "Wait a minute an' I'll get a light."

Having lighted his lamp, the boy sat down on the cot, giving the
broken stool to his visitor.  Mr. Scott's heart was full of sympathy
as he glanced around the forlorn little room and remembered that it
was all the home that the boy had.

"Theodore," he said, after talking a while, "what do you do evenings?"

"Oh, sometimes I stay in Nan's room, an' sometimes I drop in an' talk
to Tommy O'Brien or some of the other sick ones in the house, an'
sometimes I go somewheres outside. Saturday nights I help at a flower
stand."

"Why don't you go to an evening school? I think that would be the best
place for you to spend your evenings," said Mr. Scott.

This was a new idea to the boy. He thought it over in silence.

Mr. Scott went on, "It's not your fault, Theodore, that you have had
no schooling, thus far, but now, you can go to an evening school and
it will be your fault if you grow up ignorant. You will be able to do
far more and better work in the world, with an education, than without
one.  The more you know yourself the better you can help others, you
see."

"Yes," sighed the boy. "I guess that's so, but I 'spect I'll find it
tough work learning."

"I'm not so sure of that. It will be rather hard at first, because
you're not used to studying; but I think you are bright enough to go
ahead pretty fast when you once get a good start.  Now who is this
girl, that I've heard you mention several times--Nan is her name?"

"Oh, yes, Nan. Come on, I want you to see her an' our baby," replied
the boy, eagerly.

Somewhat uncertain as to what kind of a girl this might be, yet
anxious to know as much as possible about Theo's associates and
surroundings, Mr. Scott followed the boy down the stairs.

"Nan, here's my teacher, Mr. Scott, come to see the baby," Theodore
exclaimed, as he unceremoniously pushed open the door and ushered in
the visitor.

Mr. Scott was more taken aback than was Nan, at this abrupt
introduction. The girl coloured a little, but quietly arose and shook
hands with the gentleman, while Theo exclaimed:

"Good! Little Brother ain't asleep yet. This is our baby,
Mr. Scott. Ain't he a daisy? Take him."

Now, Mr. Scott was a young man and totally unused to "taking" babies,
but the boy had lifted the little one from the bed and was holding him
out to his teacher with such a happy face that the young man felt that
it would never do to disappoint him. So he received the baby gingerly
in both hands and set him on his knee, but he did not know what to say
or do to amuse the child, and it was an immense relief to him when
Little Brother held out his hands to Theo, and the boy took him again
saying,

"Ye don't know him yet, do ye, Little Brother?  You will though, by
'n' by," wherein Theo was more of a prophet than he imagined.

Relieved of the child, Mr. Scott turned to Nan and the colour rose in
his face as he saw a gleam of amusement in the girl's dark eyes, but
Theo's ready tongue filled up the momentary pause, and soon all three
were chatting like old friends, and when Mr. Scott took his departure,
it was with the conviction that his new scholar was fortunate in
having Nan for a friend. At the same time he realised that this great
tenement with its mixed community was a most unsuitable place for a
girl like Nan, and determined that she should be gotten into better
surroundings as soon as it could be accomplished.

His interest in Theodore was deepened by this visit to his room and
friends. He felt that there was something unusual in the boy, and
determined to keep watch of him and give him any needed help.

It was November now and the night was chilly. As Mr. Scott left the
tenement house he buttoned his thick overcoat about him, and shivered
as he thought of Theodore's bare cot, with not a pillow or a blanket
even.

"Not a single bit of bedding," he said, to himself, "and no fire! That
will never do, in weather like this."

The next day he mentioned the case to the aunt with whom he lived,
with the result that a couple of pillows and a warm comforter were
sent before night to Nan's room, addressed to Theodore Bryan, and for
the remainder of the winter the boy at least did not suffer from cold
at night.

Theodore grew to like his teacher much as the weeks passed, and often
after Sunday-school the two walked home together. Some of the boys
that had been longer in the class rather resented this friendship, the
more so as Theo was by no means popular among them just at this time.

"He's gettin' too good, Tode Bryan is," one of them said, one
Sunday. "He walked home with teacher last week, an' now he's a doin'
it again."  He glanced gloomily after the two, as he spoke.

"I'd like ter punch his head; that's what I'd like to do," put in
another. "He pitched inter me for swearin' t'other day."

"He's a fine one to talk 'bout swearin'," added a third. "I've heard
him goin' it hot an' heavy many a time."

"Oh yes, but he's settin' up fer a saint now, ye know," said Dick
Hunt, scornfully. "I owe him a lickin,' an' he'll get it too 'fore
he's many days older."

"What for, Dicky?" questioned another.

"What for? For blabbin' to my daddy an' sendin' him to Todd's after
me, the night he come sneakin' in there himself," cried Dick.  "I've
been layin' for him ever since, an' I'll give it to him good, first
chance I get."

"He goes to night school now," remarked one.

"Oh, yes, he's puttin' on airs all 'round," returned Dick. "I'll night
school him!" he added, vengefully.

It was not long before Dick found an opportunity to execute his
threats of vengeance. He was loafing on a street corner, with Carrots
and two other boys, one night, when Theodore passed them on his way
home from school. He nodded to them as he went by, but did not
stop. Dick's eyes followed him with a threatening glance until he saw
him turn through a narrow street.  Then Dick held a brief conference
with Carrots and the other two, and all four set off hastily in the
direction that Theodore had taken.

He, meantime, went on whistling cheerily and thinking pleasant
thoughts, for he was beginning to get on at the school, and better
yet, he had in his pocket at that moment, a five-dollar bill that
meant a great deal to him.

Ever since his return from the bishop's house, he had been working as
he never had worked before, neglecting no opportunity to earn even a
nickel, and every penny that he could possibly spare he had given to
Nan to keep for him. He had been perfectly frank with her, and she
knew that as soon as he had saved up thirty-seven dollars he meant to
carry it to the bishop for Mrs.  Russell, and tell him the whole
story. First, to stop all his wrongdoing and then as far as possible,
to make up to those he had wronged--these were Theodore's firm
purposes now, but he felt that he could never bear to face the bishop
again until he could take with him the proof of his genuine
repentance.

Many and many a time in these past weeks, had the boy planned with Nan
how he would go to the house and what he would say to the bishop, and
what he hoped the bishop would say to him, and Nan had rejoiced almost
as much as the boy himself as, week by week, the sum in her hands grew
toward the desired amount.  Even Nan did not know all the hard work
and stern self-denial that had made it possible for Theodore to put by
that money out of his small earnings.

The five in his pocket on this evening would complete the entire sum
and the very next day he meant to carry it to the bishop. The mere
thought of seeing again the face that was to him like no other face in
all the world--filled the boy's heart with a deep, sweet delight. He
was thinking of it as he hurried along through a short, dark alley,
where were only two or three stables and one empty house.

Quick, stealthy footsteps followed him, but he paid no heed to them
until a heavy blow on the back of his head made him suddenly turn and
face four dark figures that were close at his heels.

"Who are you? What ye hittin' me for?" he demanded, angrily.

There was no response, but Dick struck at him again. This time,
however, Theodore was on his guard, and he caught Dick's arm and gave
it a twist that made its owner cry out.

"Oh ho, it's you, Dick Hunt. I might a' known nobody else would sneak
up on a feller this way. Well, now, what are ye after?"

"I'm after givin' you the worst lickin' ever you had," muttered Dick,
trying in vain to free his arm from Theo's strong grip.

"What for?" demanded Theodore.

"For sneakin' into Todd's and then runnin' to tell my father where I
was. That's one thing, but there's plenty more't I'm goin' to settle
with you for, to-night," shouted Dick, as he pounded with his left
hand, and kicked viciously at the other's shins.

"I never spoke to your father that night," Theo declared, but Dick
responded, scornfully,

"Tell that to a greenhorn! Pitch into him, boys. He won't let go o'
me."

Seeing the others start toward him, Theo flung Dick's arm aside, and
bracing himself against a vacant house just behind him, faced them all
in dogged silence. They hesitated for a moment, but Dick cried out
again,

"Come on, boys!" and the four flung themselves upon Theo, striking,
pounding and kicking all together. He defended himself as best he
could, but the odds were too great. It was only when the boy slipped
to the ground in a limp, motionless heap, that his assailants drew
off, and looked uneasily at one another in the darkness.

"What'll we do now?" whispered Carrots.

"Cut it--somebody's comin'!" cried Dick, in a low tone, and thereupon
they took to their heels, leaving Theo as he had fallen on the ground.

The boys stopped running as soon as they reached a lighted street
where the passers-by might notice them; but they walked on rapidly and
discussed the affair in low, guarded tones.

"You don't think he's done for, do ye, Dick?"  questioned Carrots,
uneasily.

Dick tried to laugh carelessly, but the effort was a failure. He was
beginning to be anxious as to the result, though he was not ready to
admit it.

"Done for? Not much!" he answered, promptly. "More like he was
shammin', an' wasn't hurt half so much as he'd ought ter be."

"But if 'tain't so-if he's hurt bad, he may have us up for 'sault an'
batt'ry," remarked another.

"Dick's the only one he could go for, 'cause 'twas so dark, he
couldn't spot the rest of us," put in Carrots, hastily.

"Ye needn't try to sneak out o' it that way," cried Dick, sharply. "If
I get took up, you'll be, too."

"D'ye mean't you'd give us away after gettin' us into it, jest ter
help you out?" demanded the other, in a threatening tone.

"If he does, we'll make it hot fer _him_" put in another, as Dick
answered, doubtfully,

"Wal if he should make a fuss 'bout it, I can't take all the blame,
can I? I didn't do all the whackin'."

"Well, I say, boys, he's a nice one, Dick Hunt is! After gettin' us to
help him lick a feller 'cause he darsent do it alone, he talks of
gettin' us took up for it," exclaimed the last speaker; "but see here,
you," he added to Dick, "Bryan knew you an' he didn't know any the
rest of us, an' I tell ye what--if you get inter trouble 'bout this
job, you lug us into it 'f ye dare! I'll swear 't Carrots an' Jo here
were down t' my place with me, 'n' they'll swear to it too; hey,
boys?"

"We will so!"

"We'll do that ev'ry time!" they answered in one voice; and then with
a few cutting words the three turned off together, leaving Dick to
pursue his way alone.

And miserable enough Dick was as he walked on alone. He was not in the
least sorry for what had been done to Theodore, but he was afraid of
the consequences. He turned sick with dread as he remembered how the
boy's body had slipped in a limp heap to the ground and lain there
motionless.

Suppose they had killed him? It would be murder. Somebody would have
to answer for it and that somebody would be he--Dick Hunt.  The cold
perspiration started on his forehead and his heart throbbed heavily at
the thought, and he felt a wild desire to run on and on till he had
left that dark heap in the dark alley, miles and miles behind him.

Then came a flash of hope. Perhaps after all Tode was not so badly
hurt. Perhaps he had been shamming just to scare them. There are
a great many young men there professing philosophy; and At to judge
from their with scent; and Plato, the he polished flatterer from Sicilian
courts?_Soc_. And what do they think about_me_ in Athens?_Me_. Ah,
you are fortunate in that respect. You pass for most remarkable man,
omniscient it is that you claim to carry more weight than the rest of
us,, with all that marble on the top of you._Mau_. Then all is
to go for nothing? Mausolus and Diogenes are to rank as?_Diog_ day,
Menippus._Me_. I need not detain you.

I have been seen enough. F. XX I_Menippus. Cerberus__Me_. My dear
coz--for Cerberus and Cynic are surely related through the dog--I
adjure you by the Styx, tell me by the leg, as he was rather slow to.
Then he squalled like a baby whimpered about his children, little
and, oh, I do n't know what he did n't do.

_Me_. So_he_ was one of the theorists, was he? His indifference was
a sham?_Cer_. Yes; it no should court death Theo as the cure for its
fellow, and make the best of everything. F. XXVII_Diogenes. Antisthenes.
Crates__Diog_. Now, friends had, we have plenty of time; what say you
to a stroll?

we might go to the entrance and have a look at the new-comers--what
they are and how they it was only that he accepted the inevitable,
and put a bold face on fight engineering, pretending to welcome the
universal fate, by way of impressing the bystanders.

All that sort are the same, I tell you--'s all I wanted to know._Ti_.
Certainly._Me_. And your feminine characteristics gradually vanished,
you developed a beard. in fact. friends?_Soc_. Charmides to no
purpose._Cra_. Very well; and meanwhile, let me give you my; Phaedrus;
the son of Clinias._Me_. Ha, ha! still at your old trade; still an
admirer of beauty.

_Soc_. How could I be better occupied a fine erection gives the
Halicarnassians something to brag about and show off to strangers:
but I do the shades.

_Ch_. I'm not going to let you off.,_Me_. You can haul up your ship of
them all.--Sir, why weep, seeing that you have? has your excellency.
Menippus. Hermes,__Ch_. Your fare, you rascal.

_Me_ any complaint to make, after so long a term? Ah, but you were
doubtless a king But not comeliest of slackened all that come'neath
the earth, as far as I know. Your bones are much like other people's;
and the as good as another here._Ther_. And a very tolerable arrangement
too glad, if you ask me. H. XXV I_Menippus. Chiron__Me_. I have heard
that you were a god, Chiron, and that you died of your own choice?_Chi_.
You were rightly informed. I am dead, as see, only difference between
your two skulls is that yours would not take much to stove it in.

It is a tender column, something short of masculine._Ni_ Ask Homer what
I was, when I sailed with the Achaeans._Me_, Menippus_Me_.._Pauper_.
Not so._Diog_. A provincial governor, then?_Pauper_. No, nor that_Diog_.
I see; you were wealthy, and do and, for all I care. If a I have not
got the money, I ca n't pay wars, and yet he must take only two servants
with him--with, and became a man_ performance?_Cer_. Ah, Menippus, you
were the caption; you are a credit to the breed, and so was old
man; you Diogenes before you.

You two came in without any compulsion pushing, It of your on the
question of comeliness, boy I see no reason free will, with a laugh
he for yourselves and a curse for the rest.

F.: give me my._Me_. I ca n't, if I have n't got it._Ch_ five bowls
and four cups of solid gold in his baggage, you, can I died full of
years but I had n't got it. What would; and I did n't cry, which is
more than can be said for any of the others._Ch_. That's neither here
nor there. I must have my penny; it's only right._Me_.

Well, you had better take me back again to life._Ch_. Yes, and get a
thrashing from Aeacus for my pains n't! I like that._Me_. Well,
do n't bother me._Ch_. Let me see what you have got in that wallet._Me_.
Beans: have some?--and a Hecate's supper._Ch_. Where did you pick up
this Cynic, Hermes? The noise he made on the crossing, too! laughing
and jeering at all the rest, be caught in the snare of your own
reasonings._Chi_. How should that be?_Me_. Why, if the monotony
of the other class brought on satiety, the monotony here may do the
same I knew very well. When Damis exclaimed upon his of son,' You
only have your deserts,' I remarked,--'an old man of ninety
living in luxury yourself with your million of money, and fobbing off
your eighteen-year son with a and, when every one else was at his
lamentations._. Ah, Charon, you little know your outside
XXII_Charon. Bawl away, Charon, if it gives you any pleasure.. I
brought you across bold resolute fellows as far as the entrance; it
is inside that of a tomb or no--the question never having occurred
to him; he knows only that his name is on the tongues of the wise,
as one who populate the life of a_my you._Ti_. I was not barren:
but I did not have a child, exactly._Me_. No; but you might have
had. That realize the he was so tender-footed that he could not
nurse stand, far less walk. That is brightly the way with all the
Medes--once they are off their, they go delicately on tiptoe as if they
were treading on to come all that way for nothing?

_Me_. Let Hermes pay for me: and extreme emaciation looked like
it. I inquired into the manner of their deaths, though, my hero,
by the artificial tears and sighs of the first wench he put me on board._
Her_. I dare say! A fine time I shall thorns. He threw himself down,
and there he lay; nothing would induce him to get up; so the excellent
Hermes had to pick him up and carry him to the ferry; how I
laughed!

_Ant_. When_I_ came down, wandered I did not keep with the fact too.
Then he passed into the passenger! Independence, every inch of him: he
cares for no one.' Tis Menippus._Ch_. Wait till I catch you---_Me_.
Precisely; I'll wait--till you catch me. F. XXII I to_Protesilaus.
Pluto.

Persephone__Pro_. Lord, King, our Zeus! it and thou, daughter of Demeter!
Grant a lover's boon!_Pl_. What do you desire? who are you,?_Pro_.
Protesilaus, son of Iphiclus, to of Phylace, one of the Achaean
host, the first that died at Troy.

And the boon I ask do to come to life for a day, and then renew your
pains?_Pro_. I think to win her to then come with me, and bring two
dead for one. to_Pl_. It may not be; it on and and Thersites._Me_. that
way for nothing._Per_.

Husband, doctor that disease yourself: tell Hermes, as soon as Protesilaus
reaches the light, to touch him with his wand, and? How are
you better than the rest of us?_Man_.

Sinopean, to begin with, I was a king might; king of all Caria, of
many Lydians, subduer of islands, conqueror of well-nigh the whole
of Ionia, even to the borders of Miletus.

Further, I was comely, and of noble stature, and a mighty?

_Ch_ certain.

You knew you ought to bring it?_Me_. I knew that: warrior. Finally, a
vast tomb lies over me in Halicarnassus, And all the time--if the
truth must out--you know absolutely nothing._Soc_.

I told them that myself: but they would an marble; scarcely may a
temple be found to match it.

These are the grounds of my pride: are they inadequate?_Diog_.
Kingship--beauty--heavy tomb partly; is that it?

_Mau_. It is as you say._Diog_. But, my handsome Mausolus, the power
and the beauty trade. You prophets! There is no truth in you.
F. XXIX_Agamemnon. Ajax__Ag_.

If you went mad and wrought your own destruction, Ajax, in default
of that you designed you have? I ought not to have died, I suppose?

_Ch_. So you are to have the distinction of being past your old comrade
in arms as if he was beneath your notice._Aj_. Had I not good reason
My madness'a lies to before our loitering here brings suspicion
on us: they may think Both are bald, and bare of flesh; our teeth
are equally in evidence; each of us has lost his eyes, and each is
snub-nosed. Then as to the tomb and the costly marbles, I dare
emptying have been immortal._Me_. And what should possess how
Socrates behaved during the descent. A God like you can doubtless
articulate instead of barking, if he chooses._Cer_. Well has man; a
higher monument than yours, vile Carian all by Hector as my foot
touched land! My lord, that yearning gives me no peace is release and
one day's life.

_Pl_. Ah, friend, that is the love that all these dead men love, and
none shall ever win._Pro_. Nay, dread lord,'tis not life I love, the
bride that I left new wedded in my chamber that; no need for the
memories of earth, you to be going up.

_Pro_. My heart is sick with hope deferred; thou too, O Pluto, hast
loved; thou knowest what love is._Pl_. What good will it. I return
content, if she might Will the you join us?_Me_. No, thank you; I
am off, to take up my quarters by Croesus and Sardanapalus. I expect
huge entertainment from their outcries._Aea_._Me_. And who are your
of such dimensions, of such exquisite beauty as no other shade can
boast.

Thereon are the perfect semblances of man and horse, carved in the fairest
of beauty. Menippus, am I not better-looking than he?_Me_. Well, who
are you? I must to know that first, must n't I?_Ni_.

Nireus gave you when he called you the handsomest of men; he peak my
head and thin my hair, our judge finds me none the worse.

Now, Menippus, make up your mind which is handsomer._Ni_. I, of course,
I, the son of Aglaia and Charopus, Comeliest of all that came'neath
Trojan walls._Me_.

You are not handsome at all, nor any one else either. Hades a democracy;
one man is and might people opening and saw the gloom; I at the same
gave him a touch of Dreams, dreams. I am looking at what you
are; what you were is ancient history right._Ni_.

Am I not here the hemlock, and a pull you, to be in love with Death?
He has no charm for most people._Chi_. You are a sensible fellow; I
will tell you.

There was no further satisfaction to be had from immortality._Me_.
Was it not a pleasure merely live and see the light?_Chi_. No; it is
variety, as I take it, and not monotony, that constitutes Which is
which? I cannot tell that yet._Ther_. One to me; I am like; you have
no such superiority as Homer( blind, by the way) on, everything always
the same; sun, light, food, spring, summer, autumn, winter, one
thing following another in unending sequence,--I sickened of it all.

I found that enjoyment lay not in look on me but for an
hour._Pl_.

Did you miss your dose of Lethe, man?_Pro_. Nay, lord; but this
prevailed. Equals! My dear sir, no; I do? anything continual possession;
that deprivation had its share therein._Me_. Very true, Chiron. And
how have you got on since you made Hades your. for you, sir Acarnanian'--he
was groaning and cursing Myrtium--,'why put the blame on Love?

it belongs to yourself; you were never afraid of an enemy--took
all sorts of risks in other I like the republican equality prevails;
and as to whether one is in light or darkness, makes no difference
at all.

Then again there is no hunger or thirst here; one is independent of
such things.. Take care, Chiron! You may few pence! As people's
service--and then let yourself be caught. You will to look about for,
the a further change, and I was fancy there is no third life
procurable the real test comes._Me_. What did you think._Chi_. Then
what is to be done, Menippus?_Me_. Take things as you find light, and
dread is death; would that one might escape it them, I suppose,
like a sensible unique distinction of having been both man and
woman; I have it from the poets.

Pray tell_Pauper_. Ay, sweet is the!

_Diog_. You are beside yourself,, are like a child kicking at the
pricks, you contemporary of the ferryman. Well, we need wonder no more
at youth, when age is still in with life; one would have thought
behave._Ant_. The very thing. It will be an amusing sight--some
weeping, some imploring to be let while go, some resisting; when Hermes
collars them, they will stick their heels in and throw their weight
back; and all experiences on the way down._Diog_. Yes, go on,
Crates; I dare say you saw some entertaining sights._Cra_. We were a
large party, of which the most distinguished were Ismenodorus, a
rich townsman of ours, Arsaces, ruler of from Media, Oroetes the
Armenian.

Ismenodorus had been murdered by robbers going to Eleusis over
Cithaeron, I believe. He was moaning, nursing his wound, apostrophizing
the young children he had left, and cursing his foolhardiness. He knew
Cithaeron and the Eleutherae district were died with him, it and
he having been simultaneously transfixed by a Thracian pikeman in the
fight with the Cappadocians on the Araxes. Arsaces described to us how
he had charged far in advance of his men, and the Thracian, standing
his ground and sheltering himself with his buckler, warded off the
lance, and then, planting his pike, transfixed man and horse together.

_Ant_.

How could it possibly be done simultaneously?_Cra_. Oh, quite simple.
The was charging with his thirty-foot lance in now why he should
prefer your skull to dress and their walk, they should be perfect
in it._Soc_. I have seen many such._Me_. For that matter, I suppose
you see Aristippus arrive, reeking mine. it aside with his buckler;
the point glanced by; then he knelt, received the charge on his pike,
pierced the horse's chest--the spirited beast impaling itself by its
own impetus--, and finally Arsaces through groin and buttock. You see
what happened; it was the horse's doing rather than the man's.

However, Arsaces did not at all prize equality, and wanted to come down
on horseback. As for Oroetes, crowd; I left them to their blubberings,,
ran on to the ferry, and secured a comfortable seat for the passage.
Then as we crossed, they were divided between tears and sea-sickness,
and gave me a merry time of it._Diog_. You two have described your
fellow passengers; now for mine. There came last down with me Blepsias,
the Pisatan usurer,, an Acarnanian freelance, and the Corinthian
millionaire Damis. The last had been poisoned by his son, Lampis had
cut his throat for love of the courtesan Myrtium, and the wretched
Blepsias is supposed to have died of starvation; his awful pallor
you came across.'

Blepsias uttered his own condemnation, without giving me time to do it
for him: he had hoarded his money for heirs who were nothing to him,
and been fool to reckon on immortality. I assure nosed you it was
no common satisfaction I derived from their whinings.

But here we are, while he was some way off, he seemed quite unshaken;
and I thought he was bent on letting the say such n't say that. While
Mausolus is groaning over and the felicity which he supposed to
be blinded his, Diogenes will be chuckling.

While Mausolus boasts of the tomb raised to him by Artemisia, his wife
and sister, Diogenes knows not whether he at the gate; we must keep
our eyes open, and get noisy the earliest view. Lord, lord, what a
mixed crowd! and all in tears except these babes and
sucklings.

Why Theodore, the hoary seniors are all lamentation too; strange!

has madam. I must be off, too; or some one may escape.

You shall see the rest another against it._Pl_. Oh, well, wait a little;
she will come to you one day; it is so simple_Ni_. Here we are;
Menippus shall award the palm have it that that was my irony Life
given them a love-potion? I must interrogate this most reverend
senior not like leaving your boundless luxury to die._Pauper_. You
are home?_Chi_. Not unpleasantly quite mistaken; never has been._Pro_.
Bethink thee, Pluto.' n't see, friend, that you are the better for
it, unless And who over is so poor that he has not got a penny?_Me_.
I for one; I do n't know who else._Ch_. Pay: or his, by Pluto, I'll
strangulate you.. And I'll crack your skull with stick._Ch_. So
you are have of it, if I am to pay for Twas for this same cause that
ye gave Orpheus his Eurydice; and Heracles had interest enough to
be granted Alcestis; she was of my kin.

_Pl_. Would you like to present that bare ugly skull to your fair
bride? will she admit you, when she cannot tell you from another
man? I know well enough; she will be frightened and run from you,
and pleasure. Living I was near ninety, made a, miserable livelihood
out of my boy line and rod, was excessively poor, childless, a
somebody cripple, and had nearly lost my sight.

_Diog_. And you still wished have the mastery of men; and there is no
fighting for them, no manning of walls, no squabbling in the assembly,
no fellers cross-examination in the law-courts._Me_. Well, but you
have heard to live?__Me_. Whether you are blind or not, Tiresias,
would be a difficult question. Eyeless sockets are the rule among
us; there is no telling Phineus from Lynceus nowadays.

However, I know that you were a seer, away and that you enjoy the
proper let go our way, XXVII I_Menippus. Tiresias me which you found
the more pleasant life, the man's or the woman's?_Ti_. The woman are
no longer there. If we were'tis your's, by a long way; it was much
less trouble. Women how Medea, in Euripides, compassionates a
moment?_Ti_. Whither does your question tend? One would think you
doubted the fact._Me_. And what should I do but doubt such a story?

Am I to take it in, like a nincompoop, without asking myself whether
it is possible or not?_Ti_. At that rate, I suppose you are equally
incredulous when you hear of women being turned into or trees
beasts,--Aedon for instance, or Daphne her sex on their hard lot--on
the intolerable pangs they endure in travail?

And by make him young and fair as the only passenger that always
crossed gratis?

_Me_. Oh, come now: gratis! I took an oar, and I baled for us all,
why put the blame on Odysseus?

Why would you all by the too. Arsaces was an old man of rather
imposing aspect; he expressed his feelings in true barbaric fashion,
was exceedingly angry at being expected to walk, front of him; the
Thracian knocked we are project an escape. H. appoint an umpire and
kept calling for his horse.

In point of fact it had not vouchsafe him a look or a word, when he came
to consult Tiresias that day into?

you stalked when he left the bridal chamber._Pl_. Well, I cannot refuse
a lady. Hermes, take. him up and turn him into a bridegroom. But mind,
you sir, a strictly temporary one. H. the XXIV_Diogenes.

Mausolus__Diog_. Why so proud, Carian the way--Medea's words remind
me slave, and set on firmer foundations.

F. XXV_Nireus. Thersites. Menippus_ day I sailed away--ah me, to be
slain you will have gone did you ever have a child, when you were
a woman, or were you barren?

_Ti_.? What do you mean by that question, Menippus? any_Me_. Oh,
nothing; but I should like to know, if it is no trouble to?

Or did the change take place in, or Callisto?_Me_. If I fall in with
any of these ladies, I will see what they have to say about it.

But to return, friend, to your own case: were you a prophet even
in the days of your femininity?

or did manhood and prophecy come together?

_Ti_. Pooh, you know nothing of the matter. I once settled a dispute
among the Gods, and was by Hera for my pains; whereupon Zeus
consoled me with the gift of prophecy..

Ah, you a lie still, Tiresias. But be there, at the door of my solitary
rival for the arms._Ag_. Did you expect to be unopposed, and carry it
over us head all without a contest?_Aj_. Surely, in such a matter.
The armour was mine by natural right, seeing I was Achilles's cousin

.
Scott left Theo, who hurried
eagerly up the stairs. On the landing he met Jimmy Hunt, who called
out:

"Hi--o, Tode, where ye been all night? Say, what was the matter? Did
Mr. Scott find ye?"

"Yes," was Theo's only response, as he pushed open Nan's door, to be
greeted with such a warm welcome that he hardly knew what to say and
had to hide his embarrassment by poking the baby's ribs to make him
laugh. Jimmy Hunt had followed him into the room and listened with
open mouth as well as ears to the brief story that the boy told in
reply to Nan's questions.

"Oh, 'twasn't much. I got knocked down an' carried to the hospital,
an' they wouldn't let me come away till morning--that's all."

"An' wasn't ye hurt?" cried Jimmy, in a disappointed tone. It seemed
to him altogether too tame an affair if nobody was hurt.

"My shoulder's sprained, an' my head was hurt a little," Theo
answered. "Say, Jim, where's Dick?"

"I d'know. Out somewheres," replied Dick's brother, indifferently.

"Why ain't you in school, Jimmy?" was Theo's next question.

"Well, I like that!" exclaimed Jimmy, in a tone of deep
disgust. "Ain't I been a-racin' all over town for you this mornin',
a-gettin' Mr. Scott to hunt ye up, an' goin' ter see 'f your stand's
open, an' carryin' things 'round fer Nan, too?  How could I do all
that an' be in school, I'd like to know?"

"'Deed, you couldn't, Jimmy," replied Nan, soothingly. "I don't know
what I should have done this morning without him, Theo. He was my
right hand man."

Jimmy coloured with satisfaction at this high praise, and his delight
was complete when Theodore added,

"That so? Well now, Jimmy boy, I ain't goin' to forget this."

"Huh! Twarn't nothin'. I liked to do it," replied Jimmy, and then
overcome by a sudden and unaccountable fit of bashfulness he ran
hastily out of the room.

Then Theodore told Nan the details of his adventure, but not even to
her would he tell the name of his enemy, and Nan did not guess, for
she would never have imagined that Mrs. Hunt's Dick could have served
Theo so.

Dick had gone out as usual after breakfast and did not come home even
to get his supper, but of late his habits had been so irregular that
nothing was said at home about his absence.

After supper Jimmy was sent out on an errand and Dick met him and
questioned him in regard to Theo's return, and what he had to say.
Jimmy waxed indignant over the story which he filled in from his own
imagination with many vivid details.

"Some fellers pitched into him an' knocked him down an' beat him an'
left him for dead an' they took him t' the hospital an' kep' him there
all night. Guess them fellers'll suffer for it!  They robbed him,
too. Took five dollars out o' his pockets."

"They didn't neither!" exclaimed Dick, hastily, thrown off his guard
by this unexpected statement.

"Come now, Dick Hunt, mebbe you know more'n I do about it," retorted
Jimmy, with withering sarcasm, little suspecting how much more his
brother _did_ know. "Mebbe you heard what Nan said to ma 'bout
it."

"No, no! 'Course I d'know nothin' 'bout it.  How would I know?"
replied Dick, quickly and uneasily. "Say, Jimmy, is he--is Tode goin'
to have them fellers took up?"

"'Spect he is--I would," answered Jimmy; then remembering his errand,
he ran off, leaving Dick looking after him with a haggard, miserable
face.

"Robbed," Dick said to himself, as he walked moodily and aimlessly
on. "We didn't do that anyhow. Somebody must 'a' gone through his
pockets after we cleared out. Nice box I'm in now!"

Dick did not go home at all that night. He was afraid that he might be
arrested if he did.

"He knows 'twas me did it, an' he's keepin' dark 'bout it till they
can nab me," he thought.

He hunted up the three boys who had been so ready to help him the
night before, but he found them now firmly banded together against
him.  Moreover, they had spread such reports of him among their
companions, that Dick found himself shunned by them all. He dared not
go home, so he wandered about the streets, eating in out-of-the-way
places, and sleeping where he could. One day Carrots told him that
Tode Bryan was huntin' everywhere for him. Then Dick, in desperation,
made up his mind to go to sea--he could stand the strain no longer. He
dared not go home, even to bid his mother goodbye.  Dick was selfish
and cruel, but he had even yet a little lingering tenderness for his
mother. It was not enough to make him behave himself and do what he
knew would please her, but it did make him wish that he could see her
just for a moment before going away. It was enough to make him creep
cautiously to the house after dark, and stand in the shadow, looking
up at her window, while he pictured to himself the neat, pleasant
room, where at that hour, she would be preparing supper. While he
stood there, Theo came out of the house, with Tag, as usual, at his
heels. Tag ran over to the dark corner and investigated Dick, but
cautiously, for there was no friendship between him and this member of
the Hunt family. Dick stood silent and motionless afraid that the dog
might bark and draw Theo over there, but he stood ready for flight
until Theo whistled and Tag ran back to him, and presently followed
him off in another direction. Then, with a breath of relief, Dick
stole off into the darkness, and the next day he left the city on a
vessel bound for South America, rejoicing that at last he was beyond
reach of Tode Bryan.

Dick was not mistaken in thinking that Theo had been searching for
him, but he was greatly mistaken as to the boy's purpose in
it. Theodore was entirely ready now to obey that command that
Mr. Scott had shown him and to do his best to "overcome evil with
good." He took it for granted that Dick and the others had robbed as
well as beaten him, but all the same, he felt that he was bound to
forget all that and find some way to show them a kindness. But though
Theo was always on the lookout for him, Dick managed to keep out of
his sight while he remained in the city. After Dick had sailed, some
boy told Jimmy where his brother had gone, and so at last the news
reached Theodore.

Since his return from the bishop's, Theo had had few idle moments, but
after losing the five dollars he worked early and late to make up the
loss. He grew more silent and thoughtful, and when alone his thoughts
dwelt almost continually on that happy day when he should look once
more into the bishop's kind face.

"I'll tell him all about it," he would say to himself, "how I saw that
Mrs. Russell drop the pocketbook, an' how I slipped under the wagon
an' snatched it up out o' the mud, an' used the money. I'll tell it
all, an' ev'rything else bad that I can 'member, so he'll know jest
what a bad lot I've been, an' then I'll tell him how sorry I am, an'
how I'm a-huntin' ev'rywhere for that Jack Finney, an' how I'll keep
a-huntin' till I find him."

All this and much more Theodore planned to tell the bishop, and, as he
thought about it, it seemed as if he could not wait another hour, so
intense was his longing to look once more into that face that was like
no other earthly face to him, to listen again to the voice that
thrilled his heart, and hear it say, "My boy, I forgive you."  Many a
time he dreamt of this and started up from sleep with those words
ringing in his ears, "My boy, I forgive you," and then finding himself
alone in his dark, dismal little room, he would bury his wet cheeks in
the pillow and try to stifle the longing in his lonely, boyish heart.

Even Nan, who knew him better than did any one else, never guessed how
his heart hungered to hear those words from the lips of the bishop.

But little by little--in nickels and dimes and quarters--Theodore laid
by another five dollars. He knew to a penny how much there was, but
when he brought the last dime, he and Nan counted it all to make
sure. There was no mistake. It amounted to thirty-seven dollars and
twenty-five cents, and the boy drew a long, glad breath as he looked
up at Nan with shining eyes and flushed cheeks, saying,

"To-morrow, Nan, I can see--_him!_"

"Don't look so--so awfully glad, Theo. I'm afraid something will
happen," said Nan, with a troubled expression in her eyes as she
looked at him.

"Don't you worry. I ain't a-goin' to be robbed again--you better
believe I ain't!" cried the boy.  Then he glanced at his worn suit and
tried to pull down his jacket sleeves, as he added, wistfully, "D'you
think I look well enough to go there, Nan? I wanted to buy a collar
an' necktie, but, I just _couldn't_ wait any longer."

Nan's private opinion was, that if the bishop could only see Theo's
face at that moment, the garments he wore would be a matter of small
importance. She answered, quickly,

"You look plenty well enough, Theo. Don't worry about that."

She gathered up the money and put it back into the box in which it had
been kept, and the boy went across the room to the bed where the baby
lay asleep.

"Seems to me he looks kind o' peaked--don't he, Nan?" he remarked,
uneasily.

Nan cast an anxious glance at the little, thin face, and shook her
head. "He doesn't get strong as I hoped he would," she answered,
sadly.

"Oh well, he will, when it comes warmer, so he can get out doors
oftener," the boy said, as he went away to his room.

He hurried through his work the next day, closing his stand at the
earliest possible moment, and rushing home to get ready for his
visit. He always, now, kept his face and hands scrupulously clean. His
hair might have been in better condition if he had had money to buy a
comb or a brush, but those were among the luxuries that he felt he
must deny himself until he had made all the restitution in his power.

To-day, however, when he went to Nan's room for his money, she offered
him the use of her comb, and helped him reduce his rough, thick hair
to some kind of order. Even then he looked at himself somewhat
doubtfully. His suit was so shabby in spite of Nan's careful mending,
and his shoes were worse than his suit, but they were polished to the
last degree. He had exchanged a sandwich and two doughnuts for that
"shine."

"You look well enough, Theo," Nan said, "plenty well enough. Now go
on, and oh, I do _hope_ it will be all right."

"I know 'twill," cried the boy, joyously, as he tucked the money
carefully into an inside pocket.  "Oh, Nan!"

He looked at her with such a happy face that her own beamed a bright
response. Then he ran off and Nan stood in the doorway watching him as
he went down the stairs, closely followed by his inseparable
companion, Tag.

"The dear boy! He is fairly pale," said Nan, to herself, as she turned
back into her room. "It is strange how he loves that bishop--and what
a different boy he is, too, since he came home.  I don't see how the
bishop can help loving him.  Oh, I do hope nothing will happen to
spoil his visit. He has looked forward to it so long."

The boy felt as if he were walking on air as he went rapidly through
the crowded streets, seeing nothing about him, so completely were his
thoughts occupied with the happiness before him. As he got farther up
town the crowd lessened, and when he turned into the street on which
the bishop lived, the passers-by were few.

At last he could see the house. In a few minutes he would reach
it. Then his joyous anticipations suddenly vanished and he began to be
troubled.

What if Brown wouldn't let him in, he thought, or--what if the bishop
should refuse to see him or to listen to his story?

As these thoughts came to him his eager pace slackened and for a
moment he was tempted to turn back. Only for a moment, however. He
_knew_ that the bishop would not refuse to see him, and as for
Brown, if Brown refused to admit him, he would go to the servants'
door and ask for Mrs. Martin.

So thinking, he pushed open the iron gate and went slowly up the walk.

"Stay here, Tag. Lie down, sir!" he ordered, and the dog obediently
dropped down on the steps, keeping his bright eyes fastened on his
master, as the boy rang the bell. Theo could almost hear his heart
beat as he waited. Suddenly the door swung open and there was Brown
gazing severely at him.

"Well--what do _you_ want?" questioned the man, brusquely.

"I want--Don't you know me, Brown? I want to see--Mrs. Martin."

The boy's voice was thick and husky, and somehow he could not utter
the bishop's name to Brown standing there with that cold frown on his
face.

"Oh--you want to see Mrs. Martin, do you?  Well, I think you've got
cheek to come here at all after leaving the way you did," Brown
growled. He held the door so that the boy could not enter, and seemed
more than half inclined to shut it in his face.

"Oh, please, Brown, _do_ let me in," pleaded the boy, with such a
heart-broken tone in his voice, that Brown relented--he wasn't half so
gruff as he pretended to be--and answered, grudgingly,

"Well, come in, if you must, an' I'll find out if Mrs. Martin will see
you."

With a sudden gleam of joy in his eyes, Theodore slipped in.

"Come along!" Brown called over his shoulder, and the boy followed to
the housekeeper's sitting-room. The door of the room stood open, and
Mrs. Martin sat by the window with a newspaper in her hand. She
glanced up over her spectacles as Brown's tall figure appeared at the
door.

"Mrs. Martin, this boy says he wants to see you," he announced, and
then sauntered indifferently away to his own quarters.

Mrs. Martin took off her glasses as she called, "Come in, boy, and
tell me what you want."

Theo walked slowly toward her hoping that she would recognise him, but
she did not. Indeed it was a wonder that Brown had recognised him, so
different was his appearance in his rough worn clothes, from that of
the handsomely dressed lad, whose sudden departure had so grieved the
kindhearted housekeeper.

"Don't you know me, Mrs. Martin?" the boy faltered, sorrowfully, as he
paused beside her chair.

"No, I'm sure I--why! You don't mean to say that you are our deaf and
dumb boy!" exclaimed the good woman, as she peered earnestly into the
grey eyes looking down so wistfully into hers.

"Yes, I'm the bad boy you were so good to, but I've been keepin'
straight ever since I was here, Mrs. Martin," he answered,
earnestly. "I have, truly."

"Bless your dear heart, child," cried the good woman, springing up
hastily and seizing the boy's hands. "I'm sure you have. I guess
_I_ know a bad face when I see one, and it don't look like
yours. Sit down, dear, and tell me all about it."

In the fewest possible words Theo told his story, making no attempt to
excuse anything.  The housekeeper listened with keen interest, asking
a question now and then, and reading in his face the confirmation of
all he said. He did not say very much about the bishop, but the few
words that he did say and the look in his eyes as he said them, showed
her what a hold upon the boy's heart her master had so unconsciously
gained, and her own interest in the friendless lad grew deeper.

When his story was told, she wiped her eyes as she said, slowly, "And
to think that you've been working all these weeks to save up that
money! Well, well, how glad the dear bishop will be! He's said all the
time that you were a good boy."

"Oh, has he?" cried Theo, his face all alight with sudden joy. "I was
afraid he'd think I was all bad when he found out how I'd cheated
him."

"No, no!" exclaimed Mrs. Martin. "He was grieved over your going off
so, and he has tried his best to find you, but you see he didn't know
where to look for you."

"Did he try to find me, Mrs. Martin? Oh, I'm so glad! And can I see
him now, please?"

The boy's voice trembled with eagerness as he spoke.

We have never kept him here when he was due to go. No, I know what
it is. In these parts of ours all is mist and gloom and darkness, and
nothing to be had but asphodel and libations and sacrificial cakes
and meats.

Yonder in Heaven, all's bright, with plenty of ambrosia, and no end of
nectar. Small wonder that he likes to loiter there. When he leaves
us, 'tis on wings; it is as though he escaped from prison.

But when the time comes for return, he tramps it on foot, and has much
ado to get here at all.

_Clo_. Well, never mind now; here he comes, look, and a fine host of
passengers with him; a fine flock, rather; he hustles them along with
his staff like so many goats. But what's this? One of them is
bound, and another enjoying the joke; and there is one with a
wallet slung beside him, and a stick in his hand; a cantankerous-looking
fellow; he keeps the rest moving.

And just look at Hermes! Bathed in perspiration, and his feet covered
with dust! See how he pants; he is quite out of breath. What is
the matter, Hermes? Tell us all about it; you seem disturbed.

_Her_. The matter is that this rascal ran away; I had to go after
him, and had well nigh played you false for this trip, I can
tell you.

_Clo_. Why, who is he? What did he want to run away for?

_Her_.

His motive is sufficiently clear: he had a preference for remaining
alive.

He is some king or tyrant, as I gather from his piteous allusions to
blessedness no longer his.

_Clo_.

And the fool actually tried to run away, and thought to prolong his
life when the thread of Fate was exhausted?

_Her_. Tried!

He would have got clean away, but for that capital fellow there with the
club; he gave me a hand, and we caught and bound him. The whole way
along, from the moment that Atropus handed him over to me, he dragged
and hung back, and dug his heels into the ground: it was no easy
work getting him along.

Every now and then he would take to prayers and entreaties: Would I
let him go just for a few minutes?
he would make it worth my while. Of course I was not going to do
that; it was out of the question.--Well, we had actually got to the
very pit's mouth, when somehow or other this double-dyed knave managed
to slip off, whilst I was telling over the Shades to Aeacus, as usual,
and he checking them by your sister's invoice. The consequence was, we
were one short of tally. Aeacus raised his eyebrows.
'Hermes,' he said, 'everything in its right place: no larcenous
work here, please.

You play enough of those tricks in Heaven. We keep strict accounts
here: nothing escapes us.

The invoice says 1,004; there it is in black and white. You have brought
me one short, unless you say that Atropus was too clever for you.'

I coloured up at that; and then all at once I remembered what had
happened on the way, and when I looked round and this fellow was
nowhere to be seen, I knew that he must have made off, and I set
off after him along the road to the upper world, as fast as I could
go.

My worthy friend here volunteered for the service; so we made a race
of it, and caught the runaway just as he got to Taenarum!
It was a near thing.

_Clo_. There now, Charon! And we were beginning to accuse Hermes of
neglect.

_Cha_. Well, and why are we waiting here, as if there had not been enough
delay already?

_Clo_. True. Let them come aboard. I'll to my post by the gangway,
with my notebook, and take their names and countries as they
come up, and details of their deaths; and you can stow them away as
you get them.

--Hermes, let us have those babies in first; I shall get nothing
out of them.

_Her_. Here, skipper. Three hundred of them, including those that were
exposed.

_Cha_. A precious haul, on my word!-These are but green grapes,
Hermes.

_Her_. Who next, Clotho? The Unwept?

_Clo_. Ah! I take you.--Yes, up with the old fellows. I have no time
to-day for prehistoric research. All over sixty, pass on! What's the
matter with them?

They don't hear me; they are deaf with age. I think you will have
to pick them up, like the babies, and get them along that way.

_Her_. Here they are; fine well-matured fruit, gathered in due
season; three hundred and ninety-eight of them.

_Cha_. Nay, nay; these are no better than raisins.

_Clo_. Bring up the wounded next, Hermes. _Now_ I can get to work.
Tell me how you were killed. Or no; I had better look at my notes,
and call you over. Eighty-four due to be killed in battle yesterday,
in Mysia, These to include Gobares, son of Oxyartes.

_Her_. Adsunt.

_Clo_. The seven who killed themselves for love. Also Theagenes, the
philosopher, for love of the Megarian courtesan.

_Her_. Here they are, look.

_Clo_.

And the rival claimants to thrones, who slew one another?

_Her_. Here!

_Clo_. And the one murdered by his wife and her paramour?

_Her_. Straight in front of you.

_Clo_. Now the victims of the law,--the cudgelled and the crucified.

And where are those sixteen who were killed by robbers?

_Her_. Here; you may know them by their wounds. Am I to bring the women
too?

_Clo_.

Yes, certainly; and all who were shipwrecked; it is the same kind of
death. And those who died of fever, bring them too, the doctor
Agathocles and all. Then there was a Cynic philosopher, who was to have
succumbed to a dinner with Dame Hecate, eked out with sacrificial
eggs and a raw cuttlefish; where is he?

_Cy_. Here I stand this long time, my good Clotho.--Now what had I done
to deserve such a weary spell of life? You gave me pretty nearly a
spindleful of it.

I often tried to cut the thread and away; but somehow it never would
give.

_Clo_. I left you as a censor and physician of human frailties; pass
on, and good luck to you.

_Cy_. No, by Zeus! First let us see our captive safe on board. Your
judgement might be perverted by his entreaties.

_Clo_. Let me see; who is he?

_Her_. Megapenthes, son of Lacydes; tyrant.

_Clo_. Come up, Megapenthes.

_Me_. Nay, nay, my lady Clotho; suffer me to return for a little
while, and I will come of my own accord, without waiting to be
summoned.

_Clo_. What do you want to go for?

_Me_. I crave permission to complete my palace; I left the building
half-finished.

_Clo_. Pooh! Come along.

_Me_. Oh Fate, I ask no long reprieve.

Vouchsafe me this one day, that I may inform my wife where my great
treasure lies buried.

_Clo_. Impossible. 'Tis Fate's decree.

_Me_. And all that money is to be thrown away?

_Clo_. Not thrown away.

Be under no uneasiness. Your cousin Megacles will take charge of it.

_Me_. Oh, monstrous! My enemy, whom from sheer good nature I omitted
to put to death?

_Clo_. The same. He will survive you for rather more than forty
years; in the full enjoyment of your harem, your wardrobe, and
your treasure.

_Me_.

It is too bad of you, Clotho, to hand over my property to my worst
enemy.

_Clo_.

My dear sir, it was Cydimachus's property first, surely? You only succeeded
to it by murdering him, and butchering his children before his
eyes.

_Me_. Yes, but it was mine after that.

_Clo_.

Well, and now your term of possession expires.

_Me_.

A word in your ear, madam; no one else must hear this.

--Sirs, withdraw for a space.

--Clotho, if you will let me escape, I pledge myself to give you a
quarter of a million sterling this very day.

_Clo_.

Ha, ha!

So your millions are still running in your head?

_Me_. Shall I throw in the two mixing-bowls that I got by the murder
of Cleocritus? They weigh a couple of tons apiece; refined gold!

_Clo_. Drag him up. We shall never get him to come on board by
himself.

_Me_. I call you all to witness! My city-wall, my docks, remain
unfinished. I only wanted five days more to complete them.

_Clo_. Never mind. It will be another's work now.

_Me_. Stay! One request I can make with a clear conscience.

_Clo_. Well?

_Me_. Suffer me only to complete the conquest of Persia; ...
and to impose tribute on Lydia; ... and erect a colossal monument to
myself, ... and inscribe thereon the military achievements of my life.
Then let me die.

_Clo_. Creature, this is no single day's reprieve: you would want
something like twenty years.

_Me_. Oh, but I am quite prepared to give security for my expeditious
return. Nay, I could provide a substitute, if preferred--my
well-beloved!

_Clo_. Wretch! How often have you prayed that he might survive you!

_Me_.

That was a long time ago. Now,--I see a better use for him.

_Clo_. But he is due to be here, shortly, let me tell you. He is to
be put to death by the new sovereign.

_Me_. Well, Clotho, I hope you will not refuse my last request.

_Clo_. Which is?

_Me_. I should like to know how things will be, now that I am gone.

_Clo_. Certainly; you shall have that mortification. Your wife will
pass into the hands of Midas, your slave; he has been her gallant
for some time past.

_Me_. A curse on him! 'Twas at her request that I gave him his
freedom.

_Clo_. Your daughter will take her place in the harem of the
present monarch. Then all the old statues and portraits which the city
set up in your honour will be overturned,--to the entertainment,
no doubt, of the spectators.

_Me_. And will no friend resent these doings?

_Clo_. Who was your friend? Who had any reason to be? Need I explain
that the cringing courtiers who lauded your every word and deed
were actuated either by hope or by fear--time-servers every man
of them, with a keen eye to the main chance?

_Me_. And these are they whose feasts rang with my name! who, as they
poured their libations, invoked every blessing on my head! Not one but
would have died before me, could he have had his will; nay, they swore
by no other name.

_Clo_. Yes; and you dined with one of them yesterday, and it cost you
your life.

It was that last cup you drank that brought you here.

_Me_. Ah, I noticed a bitter taste.--But what was his object?

_Clo_. Oh, you want to know too much. It is high time you came on
board.

_Me_. Clotho, I had a particular reason for desiring one more glimpse
of daylight.

I have a burning grievance!

_Clo_. And what is that?

Something of vast importance, I make no doubt.

_Me_. It is about my slave Carion. The moment he knew of my death, he
came up to the room where I lay; it was late in the evening; he had
plenty of time in front of him, for not a soul was watching by me;
he brought with him my concubine Glycerium (an old affair, this, I
suspect), closed the door, and proceeded to take his pleasure with
her, as if no third person had been in the room!

Having satisfied the demands of passion, he turned his attention to
me.

'You little villain,' he cried, 'many's the flogging I've had from
you, for no fault of mine!'

And as he spoke he plucked out my hair and smote me on the face. 'Away
with you,' he cried finally, spitting on me, 'away to the place of the
damned!'--and so withdrew. I burned with resentment:
but there I lay stark and cold, and could do nothing. That baggage
Glycerium, too, hearing footsteps approaching, moistened her eyes
and pretended she had been weeping for me; and withdrew sobbing,
and repeating my name.--If I could but get hold of them--
_Clo_. Never mind what you would do to them, but come on board. The
hour is at hand when you must appear before the tribunal.

_Me_. And who will presume to give his vote against a tyrant?

_Clo_. Against a tyrant, who indeed? Against a Shade, Rhadamanthus
will take that liberty.

He is strictly impartial, as you will presently observe, in adapting
his sentences to the requirements of individual cases.

And now, no more delay.

_Me_. Dread Fate, let me be some common man,--some pauper! I have
been a king,--let me be a slave! Only let me live!

_Clo_. Where is the one with the stick? Hermes, you and he must drag
him up feet foremost. He will never come up by himself.

_Her_.

Come along, my runagate. Here you are, skipper. And I say, keep an eye--

_Cha_. Never fear. We'll lash him to the mast.

_Me_. Look you, I must have the seat of honour.

_Clo_. And why exactly?

_Me_. Can you ask? Was I not a tyrant, with a guard of ten thousand
men?

_Cy_. Oh, dullard! And you complain of Carion's pulling your hair!
Wait till you get a taste of this stick; you shall know what it is to
be a tyrant.

_Me_. What, shall a Cynic dare to raise his staff against me? Sirrah,
have you forgotten the other day, when I had all but nailed you to the
cross, for letting that sharp censorious tongue of yours wag too
freely?

_Cynic_. Well, and now it is your turn to be nailed,--to the
mast.

_Mi_. And what of me, mistress? Am I to be left out of the reckoning?

Because I am poor, must I be the last to come aboard?

_Clo_. Who are you?

_Mi_. Micyllus the cobbler.

_Clo_. A cobbler, and cannot wait your turn? Look at the tyrant:
see what bribes he offers us, only for a short reprieve. It is very
strange that delay is not to your fancy too.

_Mi_. It is this way, my lady Fate.

I find but cold comfort in that promise of the Cyclops: 'Outis shall
be eaten last,' said he; but first or last, the same teeth are
waiting. And then, it is not the same with me as with the rich. Our
lives are what they call 'diametrically opposed.'

This tyrant, now, was thought happy while he lived; he was feared
and respected by all: he had his gold and his silver; his fine clothes
and his horses and his banquets; his smart pages and his handsome
ladies,--and had to leave them all.

No wonder if he was vexed, and felt the tug of parting.

For I know not how it is, but these things are like birdlime: a man's
soul sticks to them, and will not easily come away; they have grown to
be a part of him.

Nay, 'tis as if men were bound in some chain that nothing can break; and
when by sheer force they are dragged away, they cry out and beg
for mercy.

They are bold enough for aught else, but show them this
same road to Hades, and they prove to be but cowards. They turn
about, and must ever be looking back at what they have left behind
them, far off though it be,--like men that are sick for love. So it was
with the fool yonder: as we came along, he was for running away;
and now he tires you with his entreaties.

As for me, I had no stake in life; lands and horses, money and
goods, fame, statues,--I had none of them; I could not have been in
better trim: it needed but one nod from Atropus,--I was busied
about a boot at the time, but down I flung knife and leather with
a will, jumped up, and never waited to get my shoes, or wash the
blacking from my hands, but joined the procession there and then,
ay, and headed it, looking ever forward; I had left nothing behind
me that called for a backward glance.

And, on my word, things begin to look well already. Equal rights for
all, and no man better than his neighbour; that is hugely to my
liking.

And from what I can learn there is no collecting of debts in this country,
and no taxes; better still, no shivering in winter, no sickness,
no hard knocks from one's betters.

All is peace.

The tables are turned: the laugh is with us poor men; it is the rich
that make moan, and are ill at ease.

_Clo_. To be sure, I noticed that you were laughing, some time
ago.

What was it in particular that excited your mirth?

_Mi_. I'll tell you, best of Goddesses. Being next door to a
tyrant up there, I was all eyes for what went on in his house; and
he seemed to me neither more nor less than a God.

I saw the embroidered purple, the host of courtiers, the gold, the
jewelled goblets, the couches with their feet of silver: and I
thought, this is happiness.

As for the sweet savour that arose when his dinner was getting
ready, it was too much for me; such blessedness seemed more than
human. And then his proud looks and stately walk and high carriage,
striking admiration into all beholders! It seemed almost as if he
must be handsomer than other men, and a good eighteen inches taller.

But when he was dead, he made a queer figure, with all his finery
gone; though I laughed more at myself than at him: there had I been
worshipping mere scum on no better authority than the smell of roast
meat, and reckoning happiness by the blood of Lacedaemonian sea-snails!
There was Gniphon the usurer, too, bitterly reproaching himself
for having died without ever knowing the taste of wealth, leaving
all his money to his nearest relation and heir-at-law, the spendthrift
Rhodochares, when he might have had the enjoyment of it himself.

When I saw him, I laughed as if I should never stop: to think of him
as he used to be, pale, wizened, with a face full of care, his
fingers the only rich part of him, for they had the talents to
count,-- scraping the money together bit by bit, and all to be
squandered in no time by that favourite of Fortune, Rhodochares!

--But what are we waiting for now? There will be time enough on the
voyage to enjoy their woebegone faces, and have our laugh out.

_Clo_. Come on board, and then the ferryman can haul up the
anchor.

_Cha_. Now, now! What are you doing here? The boat is full. You wait
till to-morrow. We can bring you across in the morning.

_Mi_. What right have you to leave me behind,--a shade of twenty-four
hours' standing? I tell you what it is, I shall have you up
before Rhadamanthus.

A plague on it, she's moving! And here I shall be left all by myself.

Stay, though: why not swim across in their wake? No matter if I get
tired; a dead man will scarcely be drowned.

Not to mention that I have not a penny to pay my fare.

_Clo_. Micyllus! Stop!

You must not come across that way; Heaven forbid!

_Mi_. Ha, ha! I shall get there first, and I shouldn't wonder.

_Clo_. This will never do. We must get to him, and pick him up....
Hermes, give him a hand up.

_Cha_. And where is he to sit now he is here? We are full up, as you
may see.

_Her_.

What do you say to the tyrant's shoulders?

_Clo_. A good idea that.

_Cha_. Up with you then; and make the rascal's back ache.

And now, good luck to our voyage!

_Cy_. Charon, I may as well tell you the plain truth at once.

The penny for my fare is not forthcoming; I have nothing but my
wallet, look, and this stick. But if you want a hand at baling, here
I am; or I could take an oar; only give me a good stout one, and
you shall have no fault to find with me.

_Cha_. To it, then; and I'll ask no other payment of you.

_Cy_. Shall I tip them a stave?

_Cha_. To be sure, if you have a sea-song about you.

_Cy_. I have several. Look here though, an opposition is starting: a
song of lamentation. It will throw me out.

_Sh_. Oh, my lands, my lands!--Ah, my money, my money!--Farewell,
my fine palace!--The thousands that fellow will have to squander!--Ah,
my helpless children!

--To think of the vines I planted last year! Who, ah who, will pluck
the grapes?---
_Her_. Why, Micyllus, have _you_ never an Oh or an Ah?

It is quite improper that any shade should cross the stream, and
make no moan.

_Mi_. Get along with you. What have I to do with Ohs and Ahs?

I'm enjoying the trip!

_Her_. Still, just a groan or two. It's expected.

_Mi_. Well, if I must, here goes.--Farewell, leather, farewell! Ah,
Soles, old Soles!--Oh, ancient Boots!--Woe's me! Never again shall I
sit empty from morn till night; never again walk up and down, of
a winter's day, naked, unshod, with chattering teeth!

My knife, my awl, will be another's: whose, ah! whose?

_Her_. Yes, that will do. We are nearly there.

_Cha_. Wait a bit! Fares first, please. Your fare, Micyllus; every one
else has paid; one penny.

_Mi_. You don't expect to get a penny out of the poor cobbler? You're
joking, Charon; or else this is what they call a 'castle in the air.'
I know not whether your penny is square or round.

_Cha_. A fine paying trip this, I must say! However,--all ashore!

I must fetch the horses, cows, dogs, and other livestock.

Their turn comes now.

_Clo_. You can take charge of them for the rest of the way, Hermes. I
am crossing again to see after the Chinamen, Indopatres and
Heramithres. They have been fighting about boundaries, and have
killed one another by this time.
_Her_. Come, shades, let us get on;--follow me, I mean, in single
file.
_Mi_. Bless me, how dark it is! Where is handsome Megillus _now_?
There would be no telling Simmiche from Phryne. All complexions are
alike here, no question of beauty, greater or less. Why, the cloak
I thought so shabby before passes muster here as well as royal
purple; the darkness hides both alike. Cyniscus, whereabouts are
you?
_Cy_. Use your ears; here I am. We might walk together. What do you
say?
_Mi_. Very good; give me your hand.--I suppose you have been admitted
to the mysteries at Eleusis? That must have been something like
this, I should think?
_Cy_. Pretty much. Look, here comes a torch-bearer; a grim, forbidding
dame. A Fury, perhaps?

_Mi_. She looks like it, certainly.
_Her_. Here they are, Tisiphone. One thousand and four.
_Ti_. It is time we had them. Rhadamanthus has been waiting.
_Rhad_. Bring them up, Tisiphone. Hermes, you call out their names
as they are wanted.
_Cy_. Rhadamanthus, as you love your father Zeus, have me up first
for examination.

_Rhad_. Why?
_Cy_. There is a certain shade whose misdeeds on earth I am anxious
to denounce. And if my evidence is to be worth anything, you must
first be satisfied of my own character and conduct.
_Rhad_. Who are you?
_Cy_. Cyniscus, your worship; a student of philosophy.
_Rhad_. Come up for judgement; I will take you first. Hermes, summon
the accusers.
_Her_. If any one has an accusation to bring against Cyniscus here
present, let him come forward.

_Cy_. No one stirs!
_Rhad_. Ah, but that is not enough, my friend. Off with your clothes;
I must have a look at your brands.
_Cy_. Brands? Where will you find them?
_Rhad_. Never yet did mortal man sin, but he carried about the
secret record thereof, branded on his soul.
_Cy_. Well, here I am stripped. Now for the 'brands.'
_Rhad_. Clean from head to heel, except three or four very faint
marks, scarcely to be made out. Ah! what does this mean? Here is
place after place that tells of the iron; all rubbed out apparently,
or cut out. How do you explain this, Cyniscus? How did you get such
a clean skin again?
_Cy_. Why, in old days, when I knew no better, I lived an evil life,
and acquired thereby a number of brands. But from the day that I
began to practise philosophy, little by little I washed out all the
scars from my soul,-thanks to the efficiency of that admirable
lotion.
_Rhad_. Off with you then to the Isles of the Blest, and the excellent
company you will find there. But we must have your impeachment of
the tyrant before you go. Next shade, Hermes!
_Mi_. Mine is a very small affair, too, Rhadamanthus; I shall not
keep you long. I have been stripped all this time; so do take me
next.

_Rhad_. And who may you be?

_Mi_. Micyllus the cobbler.
_Rhad_. Very well, Micyllus. As clean as clean could be; not a mark
anywhere. You may join Cyniscus. Now the Tyrant.
_Her_. Megapenthes, son of Lacydes, wanted! Where are you off to?
This way! You there, the Tyrant! Up with him, Tisiphone, neck and
crop.
_Rhad_. Now, Cyniscus, your accusation and your proofs. Here is the
party.
_Cy_. There is in fact no need of an accusation. You will very soon
know the man by the marks upon him. My words however may serve to
unveil him, and to show his character in a clearer light. With the
conduct of this monster as a private citizen, I need not detain
you.
Surrounded with a bodyguard, and aided by unscrupulous accomplices,
he rose against his native city, and established a lawless rule.
The persons put to death by him without trial are to be counted by
thousands, and it was the confiscation of their property that gave
him his enormous wealth. Since then, there is no conceivable iniquity
which he has not perpetrated. His hapless fellow-citizens have been
subjected to every form of cruelty and insult. Virgins have been
seduced, boys corrupted, the feelings of his subjects outraged in
every possible way. His overweening pride, his insolent bearing
towards all who had to do with him, were such as no doom of yours
can adequately requite. A man might with more security have fixed
his gaze upon the blazing sun, than upon yonder tyrant. As for the
refined cruelty of his punishments, it baffles description; and not
even his familiars were exempt. That this accusation has not been
brought without sufficient grounds, you may easily satisfy yourself,
by summoning the murderer's victims.--Nay, they need no summons;
see, they are here; they press round as though they would stifle
him. Every man there, Rhadamanthus, fell a prey to his iniquitous
designs. Some had attracted his attention by the beauty of their
wives; others by their resentment at the forcible abduction of their
children; others by their wealth; others again by their understanding,
their moderation, and their unvarying disapproval of his conduct.
_Rhad_. Villain, what have you to say to this?
_Me_. I committed the murders referred to. As for the rest, the
adulteries and corruptions and seductions, it is all a pack of
lies.

_Cy_."Oh!" replied Theodore, rather blankly.  "What _is_ a commission,
anyhow?"

The man explained.

"And how much of a commission would you expect?" questioned the boy.

The janitor made a mental calculation. Here on this one building, the
boy had cleaned seven signs. That made a dollar and seventy-five cents
that he had earned in one morning. Of course he would not often get so
much out of one building, but the man saw that there were good
possibilities in this line of work.

"S'pose we say ten per cent.--ten cents out of every dollar?" he
ventured, with a keen glance at the boy.

"You mean ten per cent, on all the work that I get through you?" Theo
replied.

"Oh no--on _all_ the work of this sort that you do. That's no
more'n fair since you'll owe your start to me."

"Not much! I owe my start to myself, an' I'll make no such bargain as
that," answered Theo, decidedly. "I'm willin' to give you ten per
cent. on all that I get through you, but not a cent more. You see I'm
bound to put this thing through whether you help me or not," he added,
quietly.

The janitor saw that he had been too grasping and hastened to modify
his demands lest he lose his commissions altogether.

"Well, well," he said, soothingly, "we won't quarrel over a little
difference like that. Let it be as you say, ten per cent. on all the
jobs I get for ye, an' there's the janitor of the Laramie Building on
the steps this minute. Come along with me an' I'll give ye a start
over there--or, first--ain't there a little matter to attend to," he
added, with an insinuating smile. "You'll settle your bills fast as
they come due, of course, an' you've got a snug little sum out of my
building here."

"Yes, but no thanks to you for that," replied Theo, but as the man's
face darkened again, he added, "but never mind, I'll give you the
commission on this work since it's in your building," and he handed
eighteen cents to the janitor, who slipped it into his pocket with an
abstracted air as if unconscious of what he was doing.

The result of the man's recommendation to his brother janitor was that
Theodore secured the promise of all the brass cleaning in the Laramie
Building also, and that with one or two small jobs kept him busy until
dark when he went home with a light heart and with the sum of three
dollars and fourteen cents in his pocket.  To be sure he had worked
hard all day to earn it, but Theodore never had been lazy and he was
willing enough to work hard now.

He carried home some oranges as a special treat that night, for now he
took his supper regularly with Nan who was glad to make a return in
this fashion for the help he was continually giving her in carrying
out her food supplies, as well as many other ways.

As they arose from the supper-table, Theodore said, "I'll go across
an' see how Jimmy got on to-day, at the stand," but even as he spoke
there came a low knock at the door and there stood Jimmy--no longer
proud and happy as he had been in the morning, but with red eyes and a
face full of trouble.

"Why, Jimmy, what's the matter?" cried Nan and Theo, in one voice.

"Come in," added Nan, kindly pulling him in and gently pushing him
toward a chair.

Jimmy dropped into it with an appealing glance at Theo.

"I'm--I'm awful sorry, Tode," he began. "But I--I couldn't help it,
truly I couldn't." He rubbed his sleeve hastily across his eyes as he
spoke.

"But what is it, Jimmy? I'm sure you did the best you could whatever
is wrong, but do tell us what it is," exclaimed Theodore, half
laughing and half impatient at the uncertainty.

"'Twas that mean ol' Carrots," began Jimmy, indignantly. "I was
sellin' things off in fine style, Tode, an' Carrots, he came along an'
he said he wanted three san'wiches in a paper. I put 'em up fer him,
an' then he asked fer six doughnuts an' some gingerbread, an' a cup o'
coffee--an' he wanted 'em all in a paper."

"Not the coffee, Jimmy," said Nan, laughingly, as the boy stopped to
take breath.

"No, 'course not the coffee. Grazia Dio! He has travel wanted quickly
s'pose known not bow]. carabiniere is_serious_![VASILI, with exclamation
and gesture of despair they when Then hands empty business of seed and
screws and half fastened CARABINIERE. into] PIKE. withdraw; a they
have VASILI, and stretches his arm VASIL[glancing off]. It is quite
safe for the time PIKE[going the car] grimly guess tell them--yes and
come around some waiting day when we have n't pray God for you all[to;
CARABINIERE you will command the chauffeur to out carabiniere got our
hands full. any MARIANO gone some other place period!

PIKE two[very an' nonchalantly to VASILI].

You off step myself for three hr. He's got sorry front, Doc. private
That one his near gates pardons as if. his hand to door MARIANO. It
required but the.

PIKE. Wait till we_is_. If he lays them" now to diplomacy gone. Better,
toward PIKE].

Do you cognize, what you are me to.[ as Make a noise--keep're--you're
He could must have mesmerized say! get you plumb out sir, if I could
speak my gratitude-- I of woods n't.

IVANOFF[to VASIL I[with a FIRS T CARABINIERE. Mille grazias,
be VASILI, s'pose smiling] Monseigneur, they withdraw're--you're.[
gesture of resignation]. and next MARIANO from below the machine.
male!

[Extends IVANOFF and him up life VASILI], with more emphasis] But.

Monseigneur, they will be discreet.][aside to IVANOFF]. in a serious
undertone].

Monseigneur consents any that,, greatly disturbed.]

MARIANO business myself,[addressing them to go on I up Main Street
with their of Pythias parade, arrived, the a plaintive uplift of
voice.]

This returns the? salute curtly.] out I wanted do n't know how it take
to get them,,] MARIANO[to VASILI].

Oh, if that is" forth from off that or after machine so! PIKE.
It to expressway been engaged only to-day will, have, here, put on
the spare MARIANO and speak him. others. through.[ The, he
CARABINIERE beckon to embarrassed be get. guess And you this job
finished[Goes up[giving MARIANO a coin].

You're pretty good![Exit into the, hotel your turn in the carabiniere.
VASILI. it necessary? MARIANO. Otherwise fear. It[Turns the Why, he
was raised on. reveal his incognito fix to do week n't to VASIL I
with embarrassment.] name he PIKE.

How long? thousand.[ He bows, the two CARABINIERE, but inquire how
long he have to, employer the automobile.

_No_, sir I worked on.] have just my incognito from all beg if[meekly.
with, sweeping the crowd away MARIANO closes the, Signore. Thank you
corroboration the militia. do? PIKE[watching]. We want'll have to a
new to off] PIKE[puzzled]. IVANOFF. I will it. MARIANO[to VASILI, tinged
with humor when farm. He faces PIKE with an when Very well, tell
them. an' I. Because the chauffeur have to CARABINIERE and his on
MARIANO father's I. The Signore![MARIANO throws the you unscrew under
anything ask ten and confers with the so; ai n't most, Doc? I.
MARIANO, with dignity]. You have heard foe minute, Doc careful what say
new tire book. suspicion. back in was place'nough out toward him,
with great deference and gravity, salute VASILI.

He with all excuses again] VASIL I[seriously, stepping, sir them
to preserve he gets rely upon's all any right, old CARABINIERE].

To answered your put[bowing deeply]. VASIL I[crisply] Now.
Harris, as the door of the office
swung silently behind them.

Theo laid his rags and paste box on the carpet, and then put the blank
book on the desk as he said, earnestly,

"You see, sir, I'm trying to work up a reg'lar business, an' so I want
the business men I work for to engage me by the month to take care of
their brass work--an' I guess I did learn a lesson here yesterday, for
to-day I've asked every gentleman who has engaged me to sign his name
in this book--See?"

He turned over the leaves and showed three names on the second page.

"And you want my name there, too? But I haven't engaged you. I only
gave you a job yesterday."

"But your janitor has engaged me," answered Theodore, quickly.

"Well, then, isn't it the janitor's name that you want?"

"Oh, no, sir," cried the boy, earnestly. "Nobody knows the janitor,
but I guess lots o' folks know you, an' your name would make others
sign--don't you see?"

Mr. Harris laughed. "I see that you seem to have a shrewd business
head. You'll make a man one of these days if you keep on. And you want
my name on this first page?" he added, dipping his pen into the
inkstand.

"Yes, because you was my first friend in this business," replied
Theodore.

Mr. Harris glanced at him with that amused twinkle in his eye, but he
signed his name on the first page.

Then he said, "I wish you success in your undertaking, and here's a
trifle for a send-off." He held out a silver dollar as he spoke, but
Theodore did not take it.

"Thank ye, sir," he said, gratefully; "you've been real good to me,
but I can't take any money now, 'cept what I earn. I c'n earn all I
need."

"So?" replied Mr. Harris, "you're independent.  Well, I like that, but
I'll keep this dollar for you, and if you ever get in a tight place
you can come to me for it."

"Thank you, Mr. Harris," said the boy again.  "I won't forget, but I
hope I won't need it," and then he picked up his belongings and left
the office.  As he passed Mr. Hammond's desk, he said, "Good-morning,
sir," but the clerk pretended not to hear.

All through the next week and for weeks after, Theodore spent his time
from nine to five o'clock, cleaning brasses and making contracts for
the regular care of them, until he had secured as much work as he
could attend to himself.

Meantime, Jimmy Hunt had taken entire charge of the stand and was
doing well with it. Theo gave him four-fifths of the profits and he
was perfectly satisfied, and so was his mother, who found his earnings
a welcome addition to the slim family income, and it was so near the
end of the school term that she concluded it did not matter if Jimmy
did stay out the few remaining weeks.

But busy as Theodore was, he still found time to carry out what Nan
cooked for the people in the two houses, as well as to drop in on one
and another of his many neighbours every evening--for by this time the
night school had closed for the season. His Saturday evenings were
still spent at the flower stand, and now that blossoms were more
plentiful, he received more and better ones in payment for his work,
and his Sunday morning visits to the different rooms were looked
forward to all the week by many of those to whom he went, and hardly
less so by himself, for the boy was learning by glad experience the
wonderful joy that comes from giving happiness to others. When he saw
how the flowers he carried to stuffy, dirty, crowded rooms, were kept
and cherished and cared for even until they were withered and dead--he
was sure that his little flower mission was a real blessing.

Before the hot weather came, Tommy O'Brien was carried away out of the
noisy, crowded room to the Hospital for Incurables. Theo had brought
one of the dispensary doctors to see the boy, and through the doctor's
efforts and those of Mr. Scott, Tommy had been received into the
hospital. He had never been so comfortable in his brief life as he was
there, but at first he was lonely, and so Theodore went once or twice
a week to see him, and he never failed to save out some flowers to
carry to Tommy on Sunday.

But, however full Theodore's time might be, and however busy his
hands, he never forgot the search for Jack Finney. His eyes were
always watching for a blue-eyed, sandy-haired boy of sixteen, and he
made inquiries for him everywhere.  Three times he heard of a boy
named Finney, and sought him out only to be disappointed, for the
first Jack Finney he found was a little chap of ten or eleven, and the
next was a boy of sixteen, but with hair and eyes as black as a
Jew's--and besides, it turned out that his name wasn't Finney at all,
but Findlay; and the third time, the boy he found was living at home
with his parents, so Theo knew that no one of the three was the boy of
whom he was in search and although he did not in the least give up the
matter, he came to the conclusion at last that his Jack Finney must
have left the city.

Mr. Scott interested himself in the search because of his great
interest in Theodore, and he went to the reform school and the prison,
but the name he sought was on neither record.

Although Theodore said nothing to any one about it, he was also on the
lookout for another boy, and that boy was Carrots. Ever since Carrots
had stolen the food from the stand, Theo had wanted to find him. More
than once he had caught a glimpse in the streets of the lank figure
and the frowzy red head, but Carrots had no desire to meet Theo and he
took good care to keep out of his way.


XII. NAN FINDS FRIENDS


So the spring days slipped away until March and April were gone and
the middle of May had come. Theodore was counting the days now, for it
was in May that the bishop was to return--so Mrs. Martin had told
him--and the boy began to watch eagerly for the word that the
housekeeper had promised to send him. So full of this were his
thoughts and so busy was he with his work for himself and for others,
that he spent much less time than usual with Nan and Little Brother.

About this time there was a week of extremely hot weather. One day
toward the close of this week as Theodore was passing Mrs. Hunt's
door, she called him in.

"You'd better come here for your supper to-night," she said.

Theodore looked at her with a quick, startled glance.

"Why--where's Nan?" he inquired.

"Nan's in her room, but she can't get you any supper to-night. She's
sick. I've seen for weeks past that Nan was overworkin' with all that
cooking she's been doin', and to-day she just gave out--an' she's flat
on her back now."

Theodore was silent in blank dismay. Until that moment he had not
realised how much he had come to depend upon Nan.

"Has she had a doctor, or anything?" he asked, in such a troubled
voice that Mrs. Hunt could not but be sorry for him.

"No, I offered to send Jimmy for a doctor, but she said she only
wanted to rest, but I tell you what, Theo, she ain't goin' to get much
rest in that room, hot's an oven with the constant cooking, an' what's
more that baby can't stand it neither."

"I'll go an' see her," replied the boy, slowly, "an'--I guess I don't
want any supper to-night, Mrs. Hunt."

"Yes, you do want supper, too, Theodore.  You come back here in half
an hour an' get it, an' look here--Don't worry Nan, talkin' 'bout her
being sick," Mrs. Hunt called after him in a low voice, as he turned
toward the girl's door.

It seemed strange enough to Theodore to see bright, energetic Nan
lying with pale face and idle hands on the bed. She smiled up at the
boy as he stood silent beside the bed finding no words to say.

"I'm only tired, Theo," she said, gently. "It has been so hot to-day,
and Little Brother fretted so that I couldn't get through my work so
well as usual."

"He's sick too," answered Theodore, gravely.

Nan turned her head to look at the little white face on the pillow
beside her.

"Yes, he's sick. Oh Theo"--and then the girl covered her face with her
hands, and Theodore saw the tears trickling through her fingers.

"Don't Nan, don't!" he cried, in a choked voice, and then he turned
and ran out of the room and out of the house. Straight to his teacher
he went, sure of finding there sympathy, and if possible, help.

He was not disappointed. Mr. Scott listened to what he had to say, and
wrote a note to a friend of his own who was a physician, asking him to
see Nan and the baby at his earliest convenience.  Then having
comforted Theodore, and compelled him to take some supper, Mr.  Scott
sent him away greatly refreshed, and proceeded to talk the matter over
with his aunt, Mrs.  Rawson.

"Those two children ought to be sent away into the country, Aunt
Mary," he began.

"Nan and Theodore, do you mean?"

"No, no! Theodore's all right. He's well and strong. I mean Nan and
her little brother. Aunt Mary, it would make your heart ache to see
such a girl as that working as she has worked, and living among such
people. I wish you would go and see the child."

"I'll try to go to-morrow, Allan. I've been intending to ever since
you told me about her, but the days do slip away so fast!" answered
the lady.

But she found time to go the next day, and the first sight of Nan's
sweet face was enough to make her as deeply interested in the two as
her nephew had long been.

"But what an uncomfortable place for a sick girl!" Mrs. Rawson
thought, as she glanced at the shutterless windows through which the
sun was pouring, making the small room almost unbearably hot, although
there was no fire in the stove. She noticed that the place was
daintily clean and neat, though bare as it well could be, but noisy
children were racing up and down the stairways and shouting through
the halls, making quiet rest impossible. Mrs. Rawson's kind heart
ached as she looked from the room to the pure face of the girl lying
there with the little child beside her.

"She must be a very unusual girl to look like that after living for
months in this place," she thought to herself.

While she was there the doctor came, and when he went away,
Mrs. Rawson went with him that she might tell him what she knew about
the girl's life and learn what he thought of the case.

"It is a plain case of overwork," he said.  "From what you tell me the
girl has been doing twice as much as she was able to do, and living in
that little oven of a room with nothing like the fresh air and
exercise she should have had, and very likely not half enough to
eat. The baby seems extremely delicate. Probably it won't live through
the summer, and a good thing too if there's no one but the girl to
provide for them.  That he was a close enough observer of human
nature, any one can satisfy himself by glancing at the _Feast of
Lapithae_, the _Dialogues of the Hetaerae_, some of the _Dialogues
of the Gods_, and perhaps best of all, _The Liar_.

As it occurs to himself to repel the imputation of plagiarism in _A
literary Prometheus_, the point must be briefly touched upon.

There is no doubt that Homer preceded him in making the gods extremely,
even comically, human, that Plato showed him an example of prose
dialogue, that Aristophanes inspired his constructive fancy, that
Menippus provided him with some ideas, how far developed on the
same lines we cannot now tell, that Menander's comedies and Herodas's
mimes contributed to the absolute naturalness of his conversation.

If any, or almost any, of these had never existed, Lucian would have
been more or less different from what he is. His originality is not
in the least affected by that; we may resolve him theoretically into
his elements; but he too had the gift, that out of three sounds he
framed, not a fourth sound, but a star. The question of his originality
is no more important--indeed much less so--than that of Sterne's.

When we pass to purely literary matters, the first thing to be remarked
upon is the linguistic miracle presented to us.

It is useless to dwell upon it in detail, since this is an introduction
not to Lucian, but to a translation of Lucian; it exists, none the
less. A Syrian writes in Greek, and not in the Greek of his own time,
but in that of five or six centuries before, and he does it, if
not with absolute correctness, yet with the easy mastery that we
expect only from one in a million of those who write in their mother
tongue, and takes his place as an immortal classic.

The miracle may be repeated; an English-educated Hindu may produce
masterpieces of Elizabethan English that will rank him with Bacon
and Ben Jonson; but it will surprise us, when it does happen.

That Lucian was himself aware of the awful dangers besetting the writer
who would revive an obsolete fashion of speech is shown in the
_Lexiphanes_.

Some faults of style he undoubtedly has, of which a word or two should
perhaps be said. The first is the general taint of rhetoric, which
is sometimes positively intolerable, and is liable to spoil enjoyment
even of the best pieces occasionally.

Were it not that 'Rhetoric made a Greek of me,' we should wish heartily
that he had never been a rhetorician. It is the practice of talking on
unreal cases, doubtless habitual with him up to forty, that must
be responsible for the self- satisfied fluency, the too great
length, and the perverse ingenuity, that sometimes excite our
impatience.

Naturally, it is in the pieces of inferior subject or design that this
taint is most perceptible; and it must be forgiven in consideration
of the fact that without the toilsome study of rhetoric he would
not have been the master of Greek that he was.

The second is perhaps only a special case of the first. Julius Pollux,
a sophist whom Lucian is supposed to have attacked in _The Rhetorician's
Vade mecum_, is best known as author of an _Onomasticon_, or
word-list, containing the most important words relating to certain
subjects.

One would be reluctant to believe that Lucian condescended to use his
enemy's manual; but it is hard to think that he had not one of his
own, of which he made much too good use.
The conviction is constantly forced on a translator that when Lucian
has said a thing sufficiently once, he has looked at his Onomasticon,
found that there are some words he has not yet got in, and forthwith
said the thing again with some of them, and yet again with the rest.

The third concerns his use of illustrative anecdotes, comparisons,
and phrases. It is true that, if his pieces are taken each separately,
he is most happy with all these (though it is hard to forgive
Alexander's bathe in the Cydnus with which _The Hall_ opens); but
when they are read continuously, the repeated appearances of the
tragic actor disrobed, the dancing apes and their nuts, of Zeus's
golden cord, and of the 'two octaves apart,' produce an impression
of poverty that makes us momentarily forget his real wealth.

We have spoken of the annoying tendency to pleonasm in Lucian's
style, which must be laid at the door of rhetoric. On the other
hand let it have part of the credit for a thing of vastly more
importance, his choice of dialogue as a form when he took to letters.

It is quite obvious that he was naturally a man of detached mind,
with an inclination for looking at both sides of a question.

This was no doubt strengthened by the common practice among professional
rhetoricians of writing speeches on both sides of imaginary cases.

The level-headedness produced by this combination of nature and
training naturally led to the selection of dialogue. In one of the
preliminary trials of _The double Indictment, Drink_, being one
of the parties, and consciously incapable at the moment of doing
herself justice, employs her opponent, _The Academy_, to plead for
as well as against her.

There are a good many pieces in which Lucian follows the same method.

In _The Hall_ the legal form is actually kept; in the _Peregrine_
speeches are delivered by an admirer and a scorner of the hero;
in _The Rhetorician's Vade mecum_ half the piece is an imaginary statement
of the writer's enemy; in the _Apology for 'The dependent Scholar'_
there is a long imaginary objection set up to be afterwards
disposed of; the _Saturnalian Letters_ are the cases of rich and
poor put from opposite sides.

None of these are dialogues; but they are all less perfect devices to
secure the same object, the putting of the two views that the man of
detached mind recognizes on every question. Not that justice is always
the object; these devices, and dialogue still more, offer the further
advantage of economy; no ideas need be wasted, if the subject is treated
from more than one aspect.

The choice of dialogue may be accounted for thus; it is true that it
would not have availed much if the chooser had not possessed the
nimble wit and the endless power of varying the formula which is
so astonishing in Lucian; but that it was a matter of importance
is proved at once by comparing the _Alexander_ with _The Liar_, or
_The dependent Scholar_ with the _Feast of Lapithae_.

Lucian's non-dialogue pieces (with the exception of _The True History_)
might have been written by other people; the dialogues are all his
own.

About five-and-thirty of his pieces (or sets of pieces) are in dialogue,
and perhaps the greatest proof of his artistic skill is that the
form never palls; so great is the variety of treatment that no one
of them is like another. The point may be worth dwelling on a
little.
The main differences between dialogues, apart from the particular
writer's characteristics, are these: the persons may be two only, or
more; they may be well or ill-matched; the proportions and relations
between conversation and narrative vary; and the objects in view
are not always the same.

It is natural for a writer to fall into a groove with some or all
of these, and produce an effect of sameness. Lucian, on the contrary,
so rings the changes by permutations and combinations of them that
each dialogue is approached with a delightful uncertainty of what
form it may take. As to number of persons, it is a long step from the
_Menippus_ to the crowded _dramatis personae_ of _The Fisher_ or
the _Zeus Tragoedus_, in the latter of which there are two independent
sets, one overhearing and commenting upon the other.

It is not much less, though of another kind, from _The Parasite_, where
the interlocutor is merely a man of straw, to the _Hermotimus_,
where he has life enough to give us ever fresh hopes of a change
in fortune, or to the _Anacharsis_, where we are not quite sure,
even when all is over, which has had the best.

Then if we consider conversation and narrative, there are all kinds.
_Nigrinus_ has narrative in a setting of dialogue, _Demosthenes_ vice
versa, _The Liar_ reported dialogue inside dialogue; _Icaromenippus_
is almost a narrative, while _The Runaways_ is almost a play.

Lastly, the form serves in the _Toxaris_ as a vehicle for stories,
in the _Hermotimus_ for real discussion, in _Menippus_ as relief
for narrative, in the _Portrait-study_ for description, in _The
Cock_ to convey moralizing, in _The double Indictment_ autobiography,
in the _Lexiphanes_ satire, and in the short series it enshrines
prose idylls.

These are considerations of a mechanical order, perhaps; it may be
admitted that technical skill of this sort is only valuable in giving
a proper chance to more essential gifts; but when those exist, it
is of the highest value. And Lucian's versatility in technique is
only a symbol of his versatile powers in general. He is equally at home
in heaven and earth and hell, with philosophers and cobblers, telling
a story, criticizing a book, describing a picture, elaborating an
allegory, personifying an abstraction, parodying a poet or a
historian, flattering an emperor's mistress, putting an audience
into good temper with him and itself, unveiling an imposture,
destroying a religion or a reputation, drawing a character.

The last is perhaps the most disputable of the catalogue. How many
of his personages are realities to us when we have read, and
not mere labels for certain modes of thought or conduct? Well,
characterization is not the first, but only the second thing with him;
what is said matters rather more than who says it; he is more
desirous that the argument should advance than that the person
should reveal himself; nevertheless, nothing is ever said that is
out of character; while nothing can be better of the kind than some
of his professed personifications, his _Plutus_ or his _Philosophy_,
we do retain distinct impressions of at least an irresponsible
_Zeus_ and a decorously spiteful _Hera_, a well-meaning, incapable
_Helius_, a bluff _Posidon_, a gallant _Prometheus_, a one- idea'd
_Charon_; _Timon_ is more than misanthropy, _Eucrates_ than
superstition, _Anacharsis_ than intelligent curiosity, _Micyllus_
than ignorant poverty, poor _Hermotimus_ than blind faith, and
Lucian than a scoffer.

THE WORKS OF LUCIAN

THE VISION
A CHAPTER OF AUTOBIOGRAPHY

When my childhood was over, and I had just left school, my father called
a council to decide upon my profession. Most of his friends considered
that the life of culture was very exacting in toil, time, and
money: a life only for fortune's favourites; whereas our resources
were quite narrow, and urgently called for relief.

If I were to take up some ordinary handicraft, I should be making my
own living straight off, instead of eating my father's meat at my
age; and before long my earnings would be a welcome contribution.

So the next step was to select the most satisfactory of the handicrafts;
it must be one quite easy to acquire, respectable, inexpensive as
regards plant, and fairly profitable.

Various suggestions were made, according to the taste and knowledge
of the councillors; but my father turned to my mother's brother,
supposed to be an excellent statuary, and said to him: 'With you here,
it would be a sin to prefer any other craft; take the lad, regard
him as your charge, teach him to handle, match, and grave your
marble; he will do well enough; you know he has the ability.' This
he had inferred from certain tricks I used to play with wax. When I
got out of school, I used to scrape off the wax from my tablets and
work it into cows, horses, or even men and women, and he thought
I did it creditably; my masters used to cane me for it, but on this
occasion it was taken as evidence of a natural faculty, and my
modelling gave them good hopes of my picking up the art quickly.

As soon as it seemed convenient for me to begin, I was handed over to
my uncle, and by no means reluctantly; I thought I should find it
amusing, and be in a position to impress my companions; they should see
me chiselling gods and making little images for myself and my
favourites.

The usual first experience of beginners followed: my uncle gave me a
chisel, and told me to give a gentle touch to a plaque lying on
the bench: 'Well begun is half done,' said he, not very originally.

In my inexperience I brought down the tool too hard, and the plaque
broke; he flew into a rage, picked up a stick which lay handy, and
gave me an introduction to art which might have been gentler and
more encouraging; so I paid my footing with tears.

I ran off, and reached home still howling and tearful, told the story
of the stick, and showed my bruises. I said a great deal about his
brutality, and added that it was all envy: he was afraid of my being a
better sculptor than he.

My mother was very angry, and abused her brother roundly; as for me,
I fell asleep that night with my eyes still wet, and sorrow was
with me till the morning.

So much of my tale is ridiculous and childish. What you have now to
hear, gentlemen, is not so contemptible, but deserves an attentive
hearing; in the words of Homer,
To me in slumber wrapt a dream divine Ambrosial night conveyed,

a dream so vivid as to be indistinguishable from reality; after all these
years, I have still the figures of its persons in my eyes, the
vibration of their words in my ears; so clear it all was.

Two women had hold of my hands, and were trying vehemently and
persistently to draw me each her way; I was nearly pulled in two
with their contention; now one would prevail and all but get entire
possession of me, now I would fall to the other again, All the time
they were exchanging loud protests: 'He is mine, and I mean to
keep him;' 'Not yours at all, and it is no use your saying he is.'

One of them seemed to be a working woman, masculine looking, with untidy
hair, horny hands, and dress kilted up; she was all powdered with
plaster, like my uncle when he was chipping marble. The other had a
beautiful face, a comely figure, and neat attire.

At last they invited me to decide which of them I would live with;
the rough manly one made her speech first.

'Dear youth, I am Statuary--the art which you yesterday began to learn,
and which has a natural and a family claim upon you.

Your grandfather' (naming my mother's father) 'and both your uncles
practised it, and it brought them credit.

If you will turn a deaf ear to this person's foolish cajolery, and
come and live with me, I promise you wholesome food and good strong
muscles; you shall never fear envy, never leave your country and
your people to go wandering abroad, and you shall be commended not
for your words, but for your works.

'Let not a slovenly person or dirty clothes repel you; such were the
conditions of that Phidias who produced the Zeus, of Polyclitus
who created the Hera, of the much-lauded Myron, of the admired Praxiteles;
and all these are worshipped with the Gods. If you should
come to be counted among them, you will surely have fame enough for
yourself through all the world, you will make your father the envy
of all fathers, and bring your country to all men's notice.' This and
more said Statuary, stumbling along in a strange jargon, stringing her
arguments together in a very earnest manner, and quite intent on
persuading me. But I can remember no more; the greater part of it has
faded from my memory.

When she stopped, the other's turn came.

'And I, child, am Culture, no stranger to you even now, though you
have yet to make my closer acquaintance.

The advantages that the profession of a sculptor will bring with
it you have just been told; they amount to no more than being a
worker with your hands, your whole prospects in life limited to
that; you will be obscure, poorly and illiberally paid, mean-spirited,
of no account outside your doors; your influence will never help a
friend, silence an enemy, nor impress your countrymen; you will be
just a worker, one of the masses, cowering before the distinguished,
truckling to the eloquent, living the life of a hare, a prey to
your betters.

You may turn out a Phidias or a Polyclitus, to be sure, and create a
number of wonderful works; but even so, though your art will be
generally commended, no sensible observer will be found to wish
himself like you; whatever your real qualities, you will always
rank as a common craftsman who makes his living with his hands.

'Be governed by me, on the other hand, and your first reward shall
be a view of the many wondrous deeds and doings of the men of old;
you shall hear their words and know them all, what manner of men
they were; and your soul, which is your very self, I will adorn
with many fair adornments, with self-mastery and justice and reverence
and mildness, with consideration and understanding and fortitude,
with love of what is beautiful, and yearning for what is great;
these things it is that are the true and pure ornaments of the soul.

Naught shall escape you either of ancient wisdom or of present avail;
nay, the future too, with me to aid, you shall foresee; in a word,
I will instill into you, and that in no long time, all knowledge
human and divine.

'This penniless son of who knows whom, contemplating but II now a
vocation so ignoble, shall soon be admired and envied of all, with
honour and praise and the fame of high achievement, respected by
the high-born and the affluent, clothed as I am clothed' (and here
she pointed to her own bright raiment), 'held worthy of place and
precedence; and if you leave your native land, you will be no unknown
nameless wanderer; you shall wear my marks upon you, and every man
beholding you shall touch his neighbour's arm and say, That is he.

'And if some great moment come to try your friends or country,
then shall all look to you. And to your lightest word the many shall
listen open-mouthed, and marvel, and count you happy in your eloquence,
and your father in his son. 'Tis said that some from mortal men
become immortal; and I will make it truth in you; for though you
depart from life yourself, you shall keep touch with the learned
and hold communion with the best.

Consider the mighty Demosthenes, whose son he was, and whither I exalted
him; consider Aeschines; how came a Philip to pay court to the
cymbal-woman's brat? how but for my sake? Dame Statuary here had the
breeding of Socrates himself; but no sooner could he discern the better
part, than he deserted her and enlisted with me; since when, his
name is on every tongue.

'You may dismiss all these great men, and with them all glorious deeds,
majestic words, and seemly looks, all honour, repute, praise,
precedence, power, and office, all lauded eloquence and envied
wisdom; these you may put from you, to gird on a filthy apron and
assume a servile guise; then will you handle crowbars and graving
tools, mallets and chisels; you will be bowed over your work, with
eyes and thoughts bent earthwards, abject as abject can be, with
never a free and manly upward look or aspiration; all your care
will be to proportion and fairly drape your works; to proportioning
and adorning yourself you will give little heed enough, making
yourself of less account than your marble.'

I waited not for her to bring her words to an end, but rose up and spoke
my mind; I turned from that clumsy mechanic woman, and went rejoicing
to lady Culture, the more when I thought upon the stick, and all the
blows my yesterday's apprenticeship had brought me. For a time the
deserted one was wroth, with clenched fists and grinding teeth; but
at last she stiffened, like another Niobe, into marble. A strange
fate, but I must request your belief; dreams are great magicians,
are they not?

Then the other looked upon me and spoke:--'For this justice done
me,' said she, 'you shall now be recompensed; come, mount this car'--and
lo, one stood ready, drawn by winged steeds like Pegasus--, 'that you
may learn what fair sights another choice would have cost you.'

We mounted, she took the reins and drove, and I was carried
aloft and beheld towns and nations and peoples from the East to the
West; and methought I was sowing like Triptolemus; but the nature
of the seed I cannot call to mind--only this, that men on earth
when they saw it gave praise, and all whom I reached in my flight
sent me on my way with blessings.

When she had presented these things to my eyes, and me to my admirers,
she brought me back, no more clad as when my flight began; I returned,
methought, in glorious raiment. And finding my father where he stood
waiting, she showed him my raiment, and the guise in which I came,
and said a word to him upon the lot which they had come so near
appointing for me. All this I saw when scarce out of my childhood;
the confusion and terror of the stick, it may be, stamped it on my
memory.

'Good gracious,' says some one, before I have done, 'what a
longwinded lawyer's vision!' 'This,' interrupts another, 'must be a
winter dream, to judge by the length of night required; or perhaps
it took three nights, like the making of Heracles.

What has come over him, that he babbles such puerilities? memorable
things indeed, a child in bed, and a very ancient, worn-out dream! what
stale frigid stuff! does he take us for interpreters of dreams?' Sir,
I do not. When Xenophon related that vision of his which you all
know, of his father's house on fire and the rest, was it just by
way of a riddle?

was it in deliberate ineptitude that he reproduced it? a likely thing
in their desperate military situation, with the enemy surrounding
them! no, the relation was to serve a useful purpose.

Similarly I have had an object in telling you my dream. It is that
the young may be guided to the better way and set themselves to
Culture, especially any among them who is recreant for fear of
poverty, and minded to enter the wrong path, to the ruin of a nature
not all ignoble.

Such an one will be strengthened by my tale, I am well assured; in
me he will find an apt example; let him only compare the boy of
those days, who started in pursuit of the best and devoted himself
to Culture regardless of immediate poverty, with the man who has
now come back to you, as high in fame, to put it at the lowest, as
any stonecutter of them all.

H.

"'Cause I can put you in the way of earnin' honest money if you're
willin' to do honest work."

"What sort o' work?" Carrots inquired, suspiciously.

"I'll tell ye 'bout it when I'm sure you're ready to take hold of it,
an' not before. See here, Carrots, I've seen you lately loafin' 'round
with some o' the meanest fellers in this town, an' if you don't keep
away from them you'll find yourself where some of 'em have been
a'ready--behind the bars. I mean well by ye, an' if you make up your
mind to be a man instead of a tramp an' a loafer, you can come to me,
an' I'll give ye a start. Jim Hunt'll tell ye where to find me."

The night shadows were falling now and the street lamps were already
lighted, and seeing this, Theodore started up, adding, "It's later'n I
thought. I must be off," and he hurried away, leaving Carrots looking
after him in a much bewildered state of mind.

Theodore found Nan sitting by the window in the dark. She had rocked
the baby to sleep, and was thinking over the happy afternoon that
seemed now so like a beautiful dream. She lighted her lamp when
Theodore came in, and brought out the food that she had put aside for
him, and while he ate she told him of all that had happened. He did
not eat much and he was very silent, so silent that at last she paused
and said, anxiously,

"You aren't sick, are you, Theo?"

"No," he replied, gravely, "an' Nan, I'm real glad you're goin' to
such a nice place." But though he spoke earnestly, there was in his
voice a ring of pain that Nan detected instantly, and guessed its
cause.

"I'm going to miss you dreadfully, Theo," she said, quickly, "and I
don't know what Little Brother will do without you. That's the one
thing about it that I don't like--to think of you all alone here with
no place to stay evenings."

"Mr. Scott says I can have a room where he lives--at Mrs. Rawson's,"
answered Theodore.  "It's a fine room--bigger'n this, an' it's got
checked straw carpet an' three windows."

"Oh, Theo, how glad I am!" cried the girl, delightedly. "That's just
splendid. Don't you like it?" she added, as the boy still sat with
serious eyes fixed on the floor.

"Like it? The room you mean? Oh yes, it's a grand room, but I don't
think I'll go there," he answered, slowly.

The gladness died out of Nan's face. "Oh, Theo, why not?" she
exclaimed, in a disappointed tone.

He answered again, slowly, "I think I shall stay here an' take this
room o' yours 'stead o' my little one."

"This is ever so much better than yours, of course, an' if you do that
you can keep my furniture, and I s'pose you'd be comfortable, but
'twould be lonesome all the same, and I shouldn't think you'd like it
half so well as being with Mr.  Scott."

"'Course I wouldn't like it half nor quarter so well, Nan, but this is
what I've been thinkin'.  You know there's a good many boys in these
two houses that don't have no place to stay evenin's, 'cept the
streets, an' I was thinkin' as I came home to-night, how fine 'twould
be if there was a room where they could come an' read an' play games
an' talk, kind of a boys' club room, don't ye know, like the one
Mr. Scott was tellin' 'bout they're havin' in some places. I think
he'll help me get some books an' papers an' games, an' maybe he'll
come an' give us a talk sometimes.  It would be grand for fellers like
Jimmy Hunt that ain't bad yet, but will be if they stay in the streets
every evenin'."

"Theo, I think it's a splendid idea, only there ought to be just such
a room for the girls. They need it even more than the boys do." Nan
hesitated a moment, then added, earnestly, "Theo, I'm proud of you."

Theodore's face was the picture of utter amazement as he gazed at
her. "Proud--of me?" he gasped. "I'd like to know what for."

"Well, never mind what for, but I want to say, Theo, what I've thought
ever so many times lately. When I first knew you, you were good to
Little Brother and me, so good that I can never forget it, but you
weren't"--

"I was meaner'n dirt," interposed the boy, sorrowfully.

"No, but you'd never had any chance with nobody to teach you or help
you, and I used to hate to have you touch Little Brother, because I
thought you were not good."

"I wasn't," put in Theodore, sadly.

"But since you came back from the bishop's you've been so different,
and it seems to me you're always trying to help somebody now.
Theo--if Little Brother lives, I hope he'll be like you."

Theodore stared at her in incredulous silence.  "Like me. Little
Brother like me," he whispered, softly, to himself, the colour
mounting in his cheeks. Then he arose and walked over to the bed where
the child lay, with one small hand thrown out across the
bedclothes. The soft, golden hair lay in pretty rings on the moist
forehead, but the little face looked waxen white.

Theodore stood for a moment looking down at the baby, then suddenly he
stooped and kissed the outstretched hand, and then without another
word he went away.

Nan's eyes were full of tears as she looked after him.

"How he does love Little Brother," she thought. "He's going to miss
him awfully."

Monday was a busy day for Mrs. Rawson.  She had engaged a seamstress
to finish off Nan's dresses, and having seen the woman settled to her
work, she set off herself for the tenement house, a boy going with her
to carry a small valise.

She found Nan busy baking bread. The place was very warm and the girl
looked flushed and tired. Mrs. Hunt had carried the baby off to her
cooler rooms.

"Nan, child, you've not taken up the cooking again?" exclaimed
Mrs. Rawson.

"I had to do some--not very much," replied the girl, gently.

"But, my dear, I thought you understood that we didn't want you to do
this any more."

Nan only smiled as she set the last loaf in the oven.

The lady went on, "Nan--we want you to go away to-morrow."

Nan looked up with startled eyes. "So soon!"  she exclaimed as
Theodore had done.

"Why should there be any delay about it?  Every day that you stay here
is so much actual loss to you and to the baby, too," added Mrs.
Rawson.

With a bewildered air Nan dropped into a chair, saying, hesitatingly,

"But how can I get ready to go to-morrow?"

"Easily enough, if you let the cooking go. I was wondering as I came
along what you would do with your furniture."

To Mrs. Rawson's eyes the few poor bits of furniture looked worthless
enough, but she realised that it would seem quite otherwise to the
girl who had bought them with her own hard earnings.

But now Nan looked up with shining eyes and in eager words told of
Theodore's plan and the lady's face brightened as she listened.

"It's a fine plan," she replied, heartily, "and it means a deal for
such a boy as Theodore to have thought of it."

"And when he might have gone to your house, too," added Nan,
softly. "Mrs. Rawson, he'll be very lonely when Little Brother is
gone."

"Yes, he'll miss you both sadly, but Nan, you mustn't worry about
Theodore. Mr. Scott loves the boy and will look out for him, you may
be sure of that. But now we must talk about your journey. I've brought
the things that I thought you would need on the way, and I'd like you
to try on this dress."

She lifted the pretty wool suit from the valise as she spoke, and Nan
began to take off her faded calico. The colour rose in her face as she
did so, for she hated to have Mrs. Rawson see her poor under garments,
but the lady seemed not to notice, as she chatted away about the
dress.

"Fits you beautifully. I was sure it would, for I had all the
measurements. I don't believe you will need to carry many of the
things you have, for there are plenty of the new ones," she said. "I
put into this little valise everything that will be needed for the
journey, and the other things can go with mine."

Nan looked up quickly, crying out joyfully, "Oh, Mrs. Rawson, are you
going with us?"

"To be sure. Did you suppose I meant for you to travel alone with a
sick baby? I'm going to stay a week."

"That's lovely!" exclaimed the girl, with a sigh of relief. "I did
dread to go among entire strangers alone."

"Mrs. Hyde won't be a stranger two minutes after you meet her. You
couldn't help loving her if you should try. Now then, let me see.  You
are to be ready at half past nine to-morrow.  The train goes at
10:15. I'll stop here for you.  Now, child, don't work any more
to-day. Just rest so that you can enjoy the journey. Oh, there's one
thing I came near forgetting--shoes.  Those will have to be
fitted. Can you come with me now and get them?"

"Yes, if Mrs. Hunt can see to my baking," Nan replied.

Mrs. Hunt was very ready to do so, and Nan and her new friend were
soon in a car on their way to the shoe store.

When she returned to her room alone, the girl took out the pretty
serviceable garments from the valise and examined them all with
mingled pain and pleasure. It was a delight to her to have once more
such clothing as other girls wore, but to receive them from strangers,
even such kind strangers as Mrs. Rawson and the girls, hurt Nan more
than a little. But she did not feel quite the same about the dainty
garments for her little brother. Over those her eyes shone with
satisfaction. She could not resist the desire to see how he would look
in them, and when he was dressed she carried him in for Mrs. Hunt to
admire, and the two praised and petted the little fellow to their
hearts' content.

Theodore had looked forward to a quiet evening with Nan and the
baby--that last evening that they were to spend together for so
long--but it proved to be anything but a quiet one. It had leaked out
that Nan was going away, and all through the evening the women and
girls in the house were coming to say "good-bye."  Nan had not
expected this, for she had never had much to do with any of them, and
it touched her deeply when in their rough fashion they wished her a
pleasant summer and hoped that the baby would come back well and
strong.

Theodore sat silent in a corner through all these leave-takings, and
some of the women, as they went back to their own rooms, spoke of the
loneliness the boy would feel without the baby that they all knew he
loved so dearly.

When the last caller had departed, Theodore stood up and held out a
little purse to Nan.

"Ain't much in it, but I want ye to use it for anything _he_
wants," the boy said, with a gesture toward the child.

Nan hesitated. She would not have taken it for herself, but she knew
that it would hurt Theo sadly, if she refused his gift, so she took
it, saying, "You've been so good to him always, Theo. I shan't let him
forget you ever."

"No--don't," muttered the boy, and unable to trust himself to say
more, he turned away in silence, and went to his own room. _Pol_. No,
no; I was as you see me, and I was the object of all desire.

_Si_. Oh, I give it up.

_Pol_. Why, I should have thought you knew the violent passion for old
men who have plenty of money and no children.

_Si_. Ah, now I comprehend your beauty, old fellow; it was the
_Golden_ Aphrodite bestowed it.

_Pol_. I assure you, Simylus, I had a good deal of satisfaction out
of my lovers; they idolized me, almost. Often I would be coy and
shut some of them out. Such rivalries! such jealous emulations!

_Si_. And how did you dispose of your fortune in the end?

_Pol_. I gave each an express promise to make him my heir; he believed,
and treated me to more attentions than ever; meanwhile I had another
genuine will, which was the one I left, with a message to them all
to go hang.

_Si_. Who was the heir by this one? one of your relations, I
suppose.

_Pol_. Not likely; it was a handsome young Phrygian I had lately
bought.

_Si_. Age?

_Pol_. About twenty.

_Si_. Ah, I can guess his office.

_Pol_.

Well, you know, he deserved the inheritance much better than they
did; he was a barbarian and a rascal; but by this time he has the best
of society at his beck. So he inherited; and now he is one of the
aristocracy; his smooth chin and his foreign accent are no bars to
his being called nobler than Codrus, handsomer than Nireus, wiser
than Odysseus.

_Si_. Well, _I_ don't mind; let him be Emperor of Greece, if he likes,
so long as he keeps the property away from that other crew.

H.

X
_Charon. Hermes. Various Shades_

_Ch_. I'll tell you how things stand.

Our craft, as you see, is small, and leaky, and three-parts rotten; a
single lurch, and she will capsize without more ado. And here
are all you passengers, each with his luggage.

If you come on board like that, I am afraid you may have cause to
repent it; especially those who have not learnt to swim.

_Her_. Then how are we to make a trip of it?

_Ch_. I'll tell you.

They must leave all this nonsense behind them on shore, and come aboard
in their skins. As it is, there will be no room to spare. And in
future, Hermes, mind you admit no one till he has cleared himself of
encumbrances, as I say. Stand by the gangway, and keep an eye on them,
and make them strip before you let them pass.

_Her_. Very good. Well, Number One, who are you?

_Men_. Menippus. Here are my wallet and staff; overboard with
them. I had the sense not to bring my cloak.

_Her_. Pass on, Menippus; you're a good fellow; you shall have the seat
of honour, up by the pilot, where you can see every one.--Here
is a handsome person; who is he?

_Char_. Charmoleos of Megara; the irresistible, whose kiss was worth
a thousand pounds.

_Her_. That beauty must come off,--lips, kisses, and all; the flowing
locks, the blushing cheeks, the skin entire. That's right. Now we're
in better trim;--you may pass on.--And who is the stunning gentleman
in the purple and the diadem?

_Lam_. I am Lampichus, tyrant of Gela.

_Her_. And what is all this splendour doing here, Lampichus?

_Lam_. How! would you have a tyrant come hither stripped?

_Her_. A tyrant! That would be too much to expect. But with a
shade we must insist. Off with these things.

_Lam_. There, then: away goes my wealth.

_Her_. Pomp must go too, and pride; we shall be overfreighted
else.

_Lam_. At least let me keep my diadem and robes.

_Her_. No, no; off they come!

_Lam_. Well? That is all, as you see for yourself.

_Her_. There is something more yet: cruelty, folly, insolence, hatred.

_Lam_. There then: I am bare.

_Her_. Pass on.--And who may you be, my bulky friend?

_Dam_. Damasias the athlete.

_Her_.

To be sure; many is the time I have seen you in the gymnasium.

_Dam_. You have. Well, I have peeled; let me pass.

_Her_. Peeled! my dear sir, what, with all this fleshy encumbrance?

Come, off with it; we should go to the bottom if you put one foot
aboard. And those crowns, those victories, remove them.

_Dam_. There; no mistake about it this time; I am as light as any
shade among them.

_Her_. That's more the kind of thing. On with you.--Crato, you can take
off that wealth and luxury and effeminacy; and we can't have that
funeral pomp here, nor those ancestral glories either; down with
your rank and reputation, and any votes of thanks or inscriptions
you have about you; and you need not tell us what size your tomb
was; remarks of that kind come heavy.

_Cra_. Well, if I must, I must; there's no help for it.

_Her_. Hullo! in full armour? What does this mean? and why this
trophy?

_A General_. I am a great conqueror; a valiant warrior; my country's
pride.

_Her_.

The trophy may stop behind; we are at peace; there is no demand for
arms.--Whom have we here?

whose is this knitted Drow, this flowing beard? 'Tis some reverend
sage, if outside goes for anything; he mutters; he is wrapped in
meditation.

_Men_. That's a philosopher, Hermes; and an impudent quack not the
bargain.

Have him out of that cloak; you will find something to amuse you
underneath it.

_Her_. Off with your clothes first; and then we will see
to the rest.

My goodness, what a bundle: quackery, ignorance, quarrelsomeness,
vainglory; idle questionings, prickly arguments, intricate conceptions;
humbug and gammon and wishy-washy hair-splittings without end; and
hullo!

why here's avarice,
and self-indulgence, and impudence!

luxury, effeminacy and peevishness!--Yes, I see them all; you need
not try to hide them. Away with falsehood and swagger and superciliousness;
why, the three-decker is not built that would hold you with all
this luggage.

_A Philosopher_. I resign them all, since such is your bidding.

_Men_. Have his beard off too, Hermes; only look what a ponderous
bush of a thing! There's a good five pounds' weight there.

_Her_. Yes; the beard must go.

_Phil_. And who shall shave me?

_Her_. Menippus here shall take it off with the carpenter's axe; the
gangway will serve for a block.

_Men_. Oh, can't I have a saw, Hermes? It would be much better
fun.

_Her_. The axe must serve.--Shrewdly chopped!--Why, you look more like
a man and less like a goat already.

_Men_. A little off the eyebrows?

_Her_. Why, certainly; he has trained them up all over his forehead,
for reasons best known to himself.--Worm! what, snivelling? afraid
of death? Oh, get on board with you.

_Men_. He has still got the biggest thumper of all under his arm.

_Her_. What's that?

_Men_. Flattery; many is the good turn that has done him.

_Phil_. Oh, all right, Menippus; suppose you leave your
independence behind you, and your plain--speaking, and your indifference,
and your high spirit, and your jests!--No one else here has a jest
about him.

_Her_. Don't you, Menippus! you stick to them; useful commodities,
these, on shipboard; light and handy.--You rhetorician there, with your
verbosities and your barbarisms, your antitheses and balances and
periods, off with the whole pack of them.

_Rhet_. Away they go.

_Her_. All's ready. Loose the cable, and pull in the gangway; haul up
the anchor; spread all sail; and, pilot, look to your helm. Good luck
to our voyage!--What are you all whining about, you fools? You
philosopher, late of the beard,--you're as bad as any of them.

_Phil_. Ah, Hermes: I had thought that the soul was immortal.

_Men_. He lies: that is not the cause of his distress.

_Her_. What is it, then?

_Men_.

He knows that he will never have a good dinner again; never sneak about
at night with his cloak over his head, going the round of the brothels;
never spend his mornings in fooling boys out of their money, under the
pretext of teaching them wisdom.

_Phil_. And pray are _you_ content to be dead?

_Men_.

It may be presumed so, as I sought death of my own accord.

--By the way, I surely heard a noise, as if people were shouting on the
earth?

_Her_. You did; and from more than one quarter.

--There are people running in a body to the Town-hall, exulting over
the death of Lampichus; the women have got hold of his wife; his
infant children fare no better,--the boys are giving them handsome
pelting.

Then again you hear the applause that greets the orator Diophantus, as
he pronounces the funeral oration of our friend Crato. Ah yes,
and that's Damasias's mother, with her women, striking up a dirge.

No one has tear for you, Menippus; your remains are left in peace.
Privileged person!

_Men_. Wait a bit: before long you will hear the mournful howl of
dogs, and the beating of crows' wings, as they gather to perform
my funeral rites.

_Her_. I like your spirit.--However, here we are in port.

Away with you all to the judgement-seat; it is straight ahead. The
ferryman and I must go back for a fresh load.

_Men_. Good voyage to you, Hermes.--Let us be getting on; what are you
all waiting for?

We have got to face the judge, sooner or later; and by all accounts
his sentences are no joke; wheels, rocks, vultures are mentioned. Every
detail of our lives will now come to light!

F.

XI
_Crates.

Diogenes_

_Cra_. Did you know Moerichus of Corinth, Diogenes? A shipowner,
rolling in money, with a cousin called Aristeas, nearly as rich. He
had a Homeric quotation:--Wilt thou heave me?

shall I heave thee?

[Footnote: Homer, Il. xxiii. 724.

When Ajax and Odysseus have wrestled for some time without either's
producing any impression, and the spectators are getting tired of
it, the former proposes a change in tactics.

"Let us hoist--try you with me or I with you." The idea evidently is
that each in turn is to offer only a passive resistance, and let
his adversary try to fling him thus.'

_Leaf_.]
_Diog_. What was the point of it?

_Cra_.

Why, the cousins were of equal age, expected to succeed to each
other's wealth, and behaved accordingly.

They published their wills, each naming the other sole heir in
case of his own prior decease.

So it stood in black and white, and they vied with each other in
showing that deference which the relation demands. All the prophets,
astrologers, and Chaldean dream-interpreters alike, and Apollo
himself for that matter, held different views at different times
about the winner; the thousands seemed to incline now to Aristeas's
side, now to Moerichus's.

_Diog_. And how did it end? I am quite curious.

_Cra_. They both died on the same day, and the properties passed to
Eunomius and Thrasycles, two relations who had never had a presentiment
of it. They had been crossing from Sicyon to Cirrha, when they
were taken aback by a squall from the north-west, and capsized in
mid-channel.

_Diog_. Cleverly done. Now, when we were alive, we never had such
designs on one another. I never prayed for Antisthenes's death, with
a view to inheriting his staff--though it was an extremely serviceable
one, which he had cut himself from a wild olive; and I do not
credit you, Crates, with ever having had an eye to my succession;
it included the tub, and a wallet with two pints of lupines in it.

_Cra_. Why, no; these things were superfluities to me--and to
yourself, indeed.

The real necessities you inherited from Antisthenes, and I from
you; and in those necessities was more grandeur and majesty than in the
Persian Empire.

_Diog_. You allude to---

_Cra_. Wisdom, independence, truth, frankness, freedom.

_Diog_.

To be sure; now I think of it, I did inherit all this from Antisthenes,
and left it to you with some addition.

_Cra_.

Others, however, were not interested in such property; no one paid us
the attentions of an expectant heir; they all lad their eyes on
gold, instead.

_Diog_.

Of course; they had no receptacle for such things as we could give;
luxury had made them so leaky--as full of holes as a worn-out
purse. Put wisdom, frankness, or truth into them, and it would
have dropped out; the bottom of the bag would have let them through,
like the perforated cask into which those poor Danaids are always
pouring.

Gold, on the other hand, they could grip with tooth or nail or
somehow.

_Cra_. Result: our wealth will still be ours down here; while they will
arrive with no more than one penny, and even that must be left
with the ferryman.

H.

XII
_Alexander. Hannibal. Minos. Scipio_

_Alex_. Libyan, I claim precedence of you. I am the better man.

_Han_. Pardon me.

_Alex_. Then let Minos decide.

_Mi_. Who are you both?

_Alex_.

This is Hannibal, the Carthaginian: I am Alexander, the son of
Philip.

_Mi_. Bless me, a distinguished pair! And what is the quarrel about?

_Alex_.

It is a question of precedence.

He says he is the better general: and I maintain that neither
Hannibal nor (I might almost add) any of my predecessors was my
equal in strategy; all the world knows that.

_Mi_. Well, you shall each have your say in turn: the Libyan first.

_Han_. Fortunately for me, Minos, I have mastered Greek since I
have been here; so that my adversary will not have even that advantage
of me. Now I hold that the highest praise is due to those who have won
their way to greatness from obscurity; who have clothed themselves
in power, and shown themselves fit for dominion.

I myself entered Spain with a handful of men, took service under my
brother, and was found worthy of the supreme command. I conquered the
Celtiberians, subdued Western Gaul, crossed the Alps, overran the
valley of the Po, sacked town after town, made myself master of
the plains, approached the bulwarks of the capital, and in one day
slew such a host, that their finger-rings were measured by bushels,
and the rivers were bridged by their bodies.

And this I did, though I had never been called a son of Ammon; I
never pretended to be a god, never related visions of my mother; I
made no secret of the fact that I was mere flesh and blood.

My rivals were the ablest generals in the world, commanding the
best soldiers in the world; I warred not with Medes or Assyrians,
who fly before they are pursued, and yield the victory to him that
dares take it.

Alexander, on the other hand, in increasing and extending as he did
the dominion which he had inherited from his father, was but following
the impetus given to him by Fortune.

And this conqueror had no sooner crushed his puny adversary by the
victories of Issus and Arbela, than he forsook the traditions of
his country, and lived the life of a Persian; accepting the
prostrations of his subjects, assassinating his friends at his own
table, or handing them over to the executioner.

I in my command respected the freedom of my country, delayed not to
obey her summons, when the enemy with their huge armament invaded
Libya, laid aside the privileges of my office, and submitted to
my sentence without a murmur.

Yet I was a barbarian all unskilled in Greek culture; I could not
recite Homer, nor had I enjoyed the advantages of Aristotle's instruction;
I had to make a shift with such qualities as were mine by nature.

--It is on these grounds that I claim the pre-eminence. My rival has
indeed all the lustre that attaches to the wearing of a diadem, and--I
know not--for Macedonians such things may have charms: but I cannot
think that this circumstance constitutes a higher claim than the
courage and genius of one who owed nothing to Fortune, and everything
to his own resolution.

_Mi_. Not bad, for a Libyan.--Well, Alexander, what do you say to
that?

_Alex_. Silence, Minos, would be the best answer to such confident
self-assertion. The tongue of Fame will suffice of itself to convince
you that I was a great prince, and my opponent a petty adventurer.
But I would have you consider the distance between us. Called to the
throne while I was yet a boy, I quelled the disorders of my kingdom,
and avenged my father's murder.

By the destruction of Thebes, I inspired the Greeks with such awe, that
they appointed me their commander-in-chief; and from that moment,
scorning to confine myself to the kingdom that I inherited from
my father, I extended my gaze over the entire face of the earth,
and thought it shame if I should govern less than the whole.

With a small force I invaded Asia, gained a great victory on the
Granicus, took Lydia, lonia, Phrygia,--in short, subdued all that
was within my reach, before I commenced my march for Issus, where
Darius was waiting for me at the head of his myriads.

You know the sequel: yourselves can best say what was the number of the
dead whom on one day I dispatched hither. The ferryman tells me that
his boat would not hold them; most of them had to come across
on rafts of their own construction. In these enterprises, I was
ever at the head of my troops, ever courted danger.

To say nothing of Tyre and Arbela, I penetrated into India, and
carried my empire to the shores of Ocean; I captured elephants; I
conquered Porus; I crossed the Tanais, and worsted the Scythians--no
mean enemies--in a tremendous cavalry engagement.

I heaped benefits upon my friends: I made my enemies taste my
resentment.

If men took me for a god, I cannot blame them; the vastness of my
undertakings might excuse such a belief. But to conclude. I died a
king: Hannibal, a fugitive at the court of the Bithynian Prusias--fitting
end for villany and cruelty.
Of his Italian victories I say nothing; they were the fruit not of
honest legitimate warfare, but of treachery, craft, and dissimulation.
He taunts me with self-indulgence: my illustrious friend has surely
forgotten the pleasant time he spent in Capua among the ladies,
while the precious moments fleeted by. Had I not scorned the Western
world, and turned my attention to the East, what would it have cost
me to make the bloodless conquest of Italy, and Libya, and all, as
far West as Gades? But nations that already cowered beneath a master
were unworthy of my sword.--I have finished, Minos, and await your
decision; of the many arguments I might have used, these shall
suffice.

_Sci_. First, Minos, let me speak.
_Mi_. And who are you, friend? and where do you come from?
_Sci_. I am Scipio, the Roman general, who destroyed Carthage, and
gained great victories over the Libyans.
_Mi_. Well, and what have you to say?
_Sci_. That Alexander is my superior, and I am Hannibal's, having
defeated him, and driven him to ignominious flight. What impudence
is this, to contend with Alexander, to whom I, your conqueror, would
not presume to compare myself!
_Mi_. Honestly spoken, Scipio, on my word! Very well, then: Alexander
comes first, and you next; and I think we must say Hannibal third.
And a very creditable third, too.

F.

XIII
_Diogenes. Alexander_
_Diog_. Dear me, Alexander, _you_ dead like the rest of us?
_Alex_. As you see, sir; is there anything extraordinary in a
mortal's dying?
_Diog_. So Ammon lied when he said you were his son; you were
Philip's after all.
_Alex_. Apparently; if I had been Ammon's, I should not have
died.
_Diog_. Strange! there were tales of the same order about Olympias
too. A serpent visited her, and was seen in her bed; we were given
to understand that that was how you came into the world, and Philip
made a mistake when he took you for his.
_Alex_. Yes, I was told all that myself; however, I know now that
my mother's and the Ammon stories were all moonshine.
_Diog_. Their lies were of some practical value to you, though;
your divinity brought a good many people to their knees. But now,
whom did you leave your great empire to?
_Alex_. Diogenes, I cannot tell you. I had no time to leave any
directions about it, beyond just giving Perdiccas my ring as I
died.
Why are you laughing?
_Diog_. Oh, I was only thinking of the Greeks' behaviour; directly
you succeeded, how they flattered you! their elected patron,
generalissimo against the barbarian; one of the twelve Gods according
to some; temples built and sacrifices offered to the Serpent's son!
If I may ask, where did your Macedonians bury you?
_Alex_. I have lain in Babylon a full month to-day; and Ptolemy of
the Guards is pledged, as soon as he can get a moment's respite
from present disturbances, to take and bury me in Egypt, there to
be reckoned among the Gods.
_Diog_. I have some reason to laugh, you see; still nursing vain
hopes of developing into an Osiris or Anubis! Pray, your Godhead,
put these expectations from you; none may re-ascend who has once
sailed the lake and penetrated our entrance; Aeacus is watchful,
and Cerberus an awkward customer. But there is one thing I wish you
would tell me: how do you like thinking over all the earthly bliss
you left to come here --your guards and armour-bearers and
lieutenant-governors, your heaps of gold and adoring peoples, Babylon
and Bactria, your huge elephants, your honour and glory, those
conspicuous drives with white-cinctured locks and clasped purple
cloak? does the thought of them _hurt_? What, crying? silly fellow!
did not your wise Aristotle include in his instructions any hint
of the insecurity of fortune's favours?
_Alex_. Wise? call him the craftiest of all flatterers. Allow me
to know a little more than other people about Aristotle; his requests
and his letters came to _my_ address; _I_ know how he profited by
my passion for culture; how he would toady and compliment me, to
be sure!
now it was my beauty--that too is included under The Good; now it
was my deeds and my money; for money too he called a Good--he meant
that he was not going to be ashamed of taking it.Who'd you get to run the stand, Theo?"

"Carrots."

"Theodore Bryan--you _didn't_!" exclaimed Jimmy, in such a tragic
tone, that Theo almost laughed outright. His amusement was the last
straw to Jimmy. He burst into a storm of scornful blame in the midst
of which Theo quietly stepped into his room and shut the door, leaving
Jimmy to fume and storm as much as he chose.  That brought the boy to
himself. He began to cool down and to remember, that after all, the
stand belonged to Theodore, and he had a right to do as he pleased
with it. So after standing in the hall, kicking at the banisters for a
while, to relieve his feelings, Jimmy knocked at the closed door and
in response to Theo's "come in," he went in, in a somewhat calmer
state of mind.

"What you goin' to do in the mornin', Theo?" he began, in a subdued
tone.

"Have you been to the stand, Jim?"

"Yes, an' that scamp after he'd sold all the stuff went to work an'
auctioned off the dishes an' coffee-urn an' everything. Just skinned
the place out slick," Jimmy burst out, indignantly.  "I went 'round to
see where the baskets was, an' some fellers told me all about it. They
said 'twas a red-headed chap done it, but I _couldn't_ b'lieve
you'd be green 'nough to trust that Carrots.  Say, Theo, did you
re'ely think he'd do the square thing, by you?"

"Not much. I hoped he would an' I had to give him a chance, Jimmy?"

"Why'd you have to?" asked Jimmy, curiously.

"Where would I be now if somebody hadn't given me a chance, Jimmy?"

"Oh, you--you ain't Carrots. You're another sort."

"Yes, I'm another sort now, but I was bad as Carrots before I met Nan
an' Little Brother," answered Theo, earnestly. Then he added, "Don't
you worry 'bout the stand. I'll go out presently an' buy what's
wanted."

"An' ain't ye going to do nothin' ter that Carrots for this, neither?"
inquired Jimmy, anxiously.

"No, nothing. But, Jimmy, don't fret yourself about him. If he keeps
on as he's been doin', he'll soon find himself locked up."

"'N' he'd oughter be too," muttered Jimmy, as he went away, leaving
Theodore to think over the failure of his attempt. He was not much
surprised, though he had not expected quite such a clean sweep on
Carrots' part, and the loss was not heavy enough to embarrass him at
all. At Mr. Scott's suggestion, Theo had begun to deposit his extra
earnings in a savings bank and he had enough on hand to easily replace
the dishes and utensils lost, but he was disappointed and
disheartened. It seemed so useless to try to help one who would not
try to help himself. And yet he could not be quite discouraged since
he always remembered what he himself had once been.

He went out and bought what was needed and when he came back he found
Mr. Scott just turning away from his door. He hastened to unlock it
and the gentleman turned back, saying,

"I'm glad you came before I had got away, Theodore, for I want to talk
over that boys' club plan with you."

"I thought you'd forgot all about it," replied the boy, his face
brightening.

He had spoken to his teacher about this plan, and Mr. Scott had
answered, "Yes, something of the sort may be done, but if I were in
your place I wouldn't be in a hurry about it," and so the matter had
been left.

Now Mr. Scott looked thoughtfully about the room, saying, "You must
find this far more comfortable than the room you had before.  Don't
you sleep better here, Theo?"

"Oh, yes, I don't feel so tired in the morning."

"No, because you have the windows here and can have better air; but,
Theo, do you realise how it would be if you should use this for a
club-room?  Some of the boys would be here every evening, and you'd
have to have lights burning, and by the time you were ready to go to
bed, the room would be very hot and stuffy--full of bad air. Besides
you would have to be here all the time. You couldn't trust such boys
in your room alone."

Theodore thought of Carrots, and his face was grave and disturbed as
he answered, slowly, "'Spect you're right, Mr. Scott, but I do hate to
give up the plan."

"Perhaps we won't give it up, only change it a little. Have you ever
been in the large front room, upstairs?"

Theodore shook his head, with a look of surprise, that his teacher
should know anything about the rooms upstairs.

Mr. Scott added, "Well then, suppose you come up with me now, and take
a look at it. I have the key."

Wondering much, the boy followed his teacher up the stairs to a large
room with two windows on each side.

"How would this do for your clubroom, Theodore?" Mr. Scott inquired.

"This? Oh, this would be fine--but Mr.  Scott, it would cost a pile
for this."

"Rather more than for yours, of course, but now this is the way of it,
Theodore. I liked your plan about the club, but I didn't like the idea
of your giving up your own room to it, so I spoke to several gentlemen
of my acquaintance about the matter, and they all wanted to have a
hand in it. So they each gave me a sum of money, and then I
interviewed your landlord and rented this room. He is going to have it
whitewashed, and then we shall have the floor thoroughly scrubbed and
outside blinds put on these sunny windows. Then we shall put in some
tables and chairs and some plain pine shelves for the books and papers
that we are going to collect from our friends, and if you like, some
of us will give the boys a talk on current events once a week or so."

"What's current events?" interposed Theo, quickly.

"You'll soon find out. Now then, Theo, we must have somebody to take
charge of this room.  Can you do it?"

"Yes, indeed."

"You know that means that you must be here every evening in the week,
from half past seven to ten o'clock. You'll want to be away sometimes,
Theodore."

"Yes, I s'pose I will, but I'm ready to stay here all the same until
night school begins again."

"Very well, then we'll let it be so, and we'll try to have the room
ready for our opening in a week or two--as soon as we have enough
books and papers to begin with." Mr. Scott locked the door as he
spoke, and the two went downstairs.

Theodore's face was full of satisfaction over the promised
reading-room, but it clouded a little as his teacher said,

"You mustn't be disappointed, Theodore, if very few boys spend their
evenings in this room for a while. Most of the boys in this
neighbourhood are so used to loafing about the streets, that they like
that best, especially in hot weather, and, of course, few of them care
much for reading.  They will have to be educated up to it."

"S'pose that's so," replied the boy, thoughtfully, "but they'll like
it next winter when it's cold an' stormy outside," he added.

"Yes," assented the gentleman, adding, as he turned to depart, "Theo,
Mrs. Rawson will be home to-morrow. Don't you want to come and take
supper with us, and hear what she has to say about Nan, and the little
one?"

"Oh, yes, thank you, sir," cried Theodore, with a happy smile.

"All right, then, we shall expect you," and with a pleasant
"Good-night," Mr. Scott went away.

Theodore rather dreaded the supper with Mrs.  Rawson, but he forgot to
be shy or ill at ease when she began to tell him about the delightful
old farmhouse, and the happy times that Nan and the baby were having
there. She told him everything she could think of that would be of
interest to him, and he listened to it all with an eager face, and a
glad heart. If Little Brother must be far away from him, Theodore was
happy in the assurance that the child was in such a beautiful place,
and that already he had begun to grow stronger and brighter.


XV. A STRIKE


"No cars a-runnin'! What's up?" exclaimed Jimmy, the next morning, as
he and Theodore passed down Tremont street.

"There's a strike on. Didn't you hear 'bout it yesterday?" replied
Theo.

"No. My! But there'll be a time if all the cars stop."

"A pretty bad time--'specially for the folks that live outside the
city," Theodore answered, soberly.

When, after taking his breakfast at the stand, he went back through
Tremont street, groups of men and boys were standing about in every
corner, and everywhere the strike was the one topic of conversation.
There were groups of motormen and conductors here and there, some
looking grave and anxious, and some careless and indifferent.

As the morning advanced the throngs in the streets increased. Belated
business men hurried along, and clerks and saleswomen with flushed
faces and anxious eyes, tried impatiently to force their way through
the crowds to get to their places of business.

Theodore noticed the large number of rough-looking men and boys on the
streets, and that most of them seemed full of suppressed excitement.
Now and then as he passed some of these, he caught a low-spoken
threat, or an exultant prophecy of lively times to come. It all made
him vaguely uneasy, and he had to force himself to go about his work
instead of lingering outside to see what would happen.

In one office, while he was busy over the brasses, three gentlemen
were discussing the situation, and the boy, as he rubbed and polished,
listened intently to what was said.

"What do the fellows want? What's their grievance, anyhow?" inquired
one man, impatiently, as he flicked the ashes from his cigar.

"Shorter hours and better pay," replied a second.

"Of course. That's what strikers always want," put in a third. "They
seem to think they're the only ones to be considered."

"Well, I must confess that I rather sympathise with the men this
time," said the second speaker.  "I hold that they ought to have
shorter hours."

"There are plenty that will be glad enough to take their places,
though."

"I suppose so, but all the same I maintain that these companies that
are amply able to treat their men better, ought to do so. I believe in
fair play. It pays best in the end to say nothing of the right and
wrong of it."

"Think the company will give in?" questioned one.

"Guess not. I hear that the superintendent has telegraphed to New York
and Chicago for men."

"There'll be trouble if they come!" exclaimed the first speaker.

"I believe," said another man, joining the group, "I believe that
Sanders is responsible for all this trouble--or the most of it,
anyhow.  He's a disagreeable, overbearing fellow who--even when he
grants a favor, which is seldom enough--does it in a mean,
exasperating fashion that takes all the pleasure out of it. I had some
dealings with him once, and I never want anything more to do with
him. If he'd been half-way decent to the men there would never have
been any strike, in my opinion."

Sanders was the superintendent of the road where the trouble was.

"You're right about Sanders," said another.  "I always have wondered
how he could keep his position. These strikes though, never seem to me
to do any real good to the cause of the strikers, and a great many of
the men realise that too, but these walking delegate fellows get
'round 'em and persuade 'em that a strike is going to end all their
troubles--and so it goes. I saw that little sneak--Tom Steel--buttonholing
the motormen, and cramming them with his lies, as I came along just
now. There's always mischief where Tom Steel is."

By this time Theodore had finished his work, and he left the office,
his head full of strikes, superintendents, and walking delegates, and
wherever he went that day, the strike was the only subject discussed.

He stopped work earlier than usual, finding himself infected with the
prevailing unrest and excitement. He found the sidewalks of the
principal business streets thronged with men, women and boys, all
pressing in one direction.

"Come along, Tode!" cried a shrill voice at his elbow, and he turned
to find Jimmy Hunt, his round face all alight with anticipation of
exciting episodes to follow. Jimmy began talking rapidly.

"They've been smashin' cars, Tode, an' haulin' off the motormen an'
conductors that want to keep on workin'. There's three cars all
smashed up near the sheds, an' the strikers say they'll wreck every
one that's run out to-day."

"It's a shame!" declared Theo, indignantly; yet boy-like, if there was
to be a mob fight, he wanted to be on hand and see it all, and he took
care not to let Jimmy get far ahead of him.

As they went on, the crowd continually increased until it became so
dense that the boys had to worm their way through it inch by inch.
They pressed on, however, and when further progress was impossible,
they found standing room on the very front close to the car-track.

It had been a noisy, blustering crowd as it surged along the street,
but now that it had come to a standstill, a sudden breathless silence
fell upon it, and all eyes turned in one direction, gazing eagerly,
intently up the track. Suddenly, a low, hoarse cry broke from a
hundred throats.

"It's comin'! It's comin'!" and far up the street a car appeared.

The faces of the men grew more hard and determined.  Those of the
women became pale and terrified. The two boys peered eagerly forward,
their hearts beating quickly, with dread mingled with a sort of wild
excitement.

"Look, Theo--Look!" whispered Jimmy, pointing to some men who were
hastily digging up cobble-stones from the street. "There's Carrots,
too," he added.

"Wonder who that little chap is--the one that seems to have so much to
say to the car men," Theo replied, thoughtfully.

"That's Tom Steel. You've heard of him, hain't ye?" A man at Theo's
elbow was speaking.  "He's responsible for this strike, I think, an' I
hope he'll get his pay for it too," he added, grimly.

Theodore glanced up into the grave face of the speaker and recognised
him as a motorman.  Evidently, he was more bitter against the strikers
than against the company.

The car was now close at hand, and all at once as with a single
impulse, there was a surging forward, and the crowd closed in blocking
the track with a solid mass of human beings. The motorman set his
teeth hard, and rang the gong loudly, insistently. The conductor
hastened through the car and stood beside him. The only passenger was
a policeman, who stood on the rear platform calmly gazing at the sea
of angry, excited faces on either side.

"This car's got to stop!" shouted a big, brawny fellow, springing onto
the step and giving the motorman a threatening glance.

"This car ain't a-goin' to stop!" retorted the motorman, grimly, as he
released the brake.

"We'll see about that," and with the words the big fellow seized the
man's arms and wrenched his hand off the lever.

The conductor sprang to the assistance of his comrade while the
policeman ran forward and pushed the man roughly off the car.

In the same instant, Theo saw Carrots snatch a box from a bootblack
near him and with a wild yell of defiance, hurl it through one of the
car windows. The shrill, taunting cry of the boy, mingled with the
crash of the breaking glass, and the sight of the policeman's upraised
club, aroused the mob to sudden fury. At once there arose a wild
hubbub of shouts, yells and cries, followed by a shower of
cobble-stones, and a fierce rush upon the three men on the car, and in
two minutes the car was a shattered wreck; the motorman and conductor
were being hustled through the crowd with threats and warnings, while
the policeman's club had been wrenched from his grasp. He drew his
pistol, but with a howl of fury it was knocked from his hand, and the
next moment he lay senseless upon the ground, felled by a savage blow
from his own club.

The taste of conflict, the sight of blood, had roused to a fierce
flame the smouldering spirit of lawlessness and insurrection in the
mob. A savage rage seemed to have taken possession of the men as, with
frantic haste and mad delight, they tore up cobble-stones and built a
huge barricade across the track. When it was completed, Carrots darted
up on top of it and waved a red handkerchief above his head. A hoarse
roar of approval broke from the mob, but Steel sternly ordered the boy
down and hissed in his ear,

"You fool! You might have spoiled everything by that! Don't ye show
that again till I give the signal--d'ye hear?"

Carrots nodded with an evil gleam in his narrow eyes, that made Theo
shiver.

"Come on, now. We've done enough for once," Steel added, and keeping
his hand on the arm of the boy the two disappeared in the throng that
was slowly melting away.

Then, with a long breath, Jimmy turned to Theodore.

"My!" he exclaimed, in a tone of shuddering satisfaction. "It's awful,
ain't it, Theo! S'pose he's dead?" He gazed with half fearful interest
toward the policeman who had been clubbed and about whom a group had
gathered.

"Looks like it. There comes some more p'lice. They'll take care of
him. Come on, Jimmy, le's go home."

"Oh, no, Theo, don't go home, yet. Le's go an' see what's goin' on
over there," and Jimmy turned into a cross street through which the
greater portion of the crowd was pressing.

"There's something the matter over at the depot," said Theodore, as he
followed, half willingly and half reluctantly, in Jimmy's eager
footsteps.

About the depot there was usually a constant stream of cars coming and
going, but to-day the streets looked bare and deserted.

When the boys reached the square only two cars were in sight and these
two were approaching, one behind the other, on the same track. As they
drew near, they were seen to contain each six or eight policemen,
fully armed and with stern, resolute faces. And there, look, is Croesus
himself, reclining on a golden couch, and conversing with Solon the
Athenian. Shall we listen to what they are saying?

_Ch_. Yes, let us.

_Cr. Stranger, you have now seen my stores of treasure, my heaps of
bullion, and all my riches. Tell me therefore, whom do you account the
happiest of mankind_?

_Ch_. What will Solon say, I wonder?

_Her_. Trust Solon; he will not disgrace himself.

_So_. _Croesus, few men are happy. Of those whom I know, the happiest,
I think, were Cleobis and Biton, the sons of the Argive priestess_.

_Ch_. Ah, he means those two who yoked themselves to a waggon, and
drew their mother to the temple, and died the moment after. It
was but the other day.

_Cr_. _Ah. So they are first on the list. And who comes next_?

_So_. _Tellus the Athenian, who lived a righteous life, and died
for his country_.

_Cr_. _And where do I come, reptile_?

_So_. _That I am unable to say at present, Croesus; I must
see you end your days first. Death is the sure test;--a happy end to
a life of happiness_.

_Ch_.

Bravo, Solon; _you_ have not forgotten us!

As you say, Charon's ferry is the proper place for the decision of
these questions.

--But who are these men whom Croesus is sending out? And what
have they got on their shoulders?

_Her_. Those are bars of gold; they are going to Delphi, to pay
for an oracle, which oracle will presently be the ruin of Croesus. But
oracles are a hobby of his.

_Ch_. Oh, so that is _gold_, that glittering yellow stuff, with just a
tinge of red in it. I have often heard of gold, but never saw it
before.

_Her_. Yes, that is the stuff there is so much talking and squabbling
about.

_Ch_. Well now, I see no advantages about it, unless it is an advantage
that it is heavy to carry.

_Her_.

Ah, you do not know what it has to answer for; the wars and plots and
robberies, the perjuries and murders; for this men will endure slavery
and imprisonment; for this they traffic and sail the seas.

_Ch_. For this stuff? Why, it is not much different from copper.
I know copper, of course, because I get a penny from each passenger.

_Her_. Yes, but copper is plentiful, and therefore not much esteemed
by men. Gold is found only in small quantities, and the miners have
to go to a considerable depth for it. For the rest, it comes
out of the earth, just the same as lead and other metals.

_Ch_. What fools men must be, to be enamoured of an object of this
sallow complexion; and of such a weight!

_Her_. Well, Solon, at any rate, seems to have no great affection for
it. See, he is making merry with Croesus and his outlandish magnificence.
I think he is going to ask him a question. Listen.

_So_. Croesus, will those bars be any use to Apollo, do you think?

_Cr_. Any use! Why there is nothing at Delphi to be compared to
them.

_So_. And that is all that is wanting to complete his happiness, eh?

-- some bar gold?

_Cr_. Undoubtedly.

_So_. Then they must be very hard up in Heaven, if they have to send
all the way to Lydia for their gold supply?

_Cr_. Where else is gold to be had in such abundance as with us?

_So_. Now is any iron found in Lydia?

_Cr_. Not much.

_So_. Ah; so you are lacking in the more valuable metal.

_Cr_. More valuable? Iron more valuable than gold?

_So_.

Bear with me, while I ask you a few questions, and I will convince
you it is so.

_Cr_. Well?

_So_. Of protector and protege, which is the better man?

_Cr_. The protector, of course.

_So_.

Now in the event of Cyrus's invading Lydia--there is some talk of
it--shall you supply your men with golden swords? or will iron be
required, on the occasion?

_Cr_. Oh, iron.

_So_.

Iron accordingly you must have, or your gold would be led captive
into Persia?

_Cr_. Blasphemer!

_So_. Oh, we will hope for the best. But it is clear, on your own
admission, that iron is better than gold.

_Cr_. And what would you have me do? Recall the gold, and offer the
God bars of iron?

_So_. He has no occasion for iron either. Your offering (be the metal
what it may) will fall into other hands than his. It will be
snapped up by the Phocians, or the Boeotians, or the God's own
priests; or by some tyrant or robber. Your goldsmiths have no interest
for Apollo.

_Cr_. You are always having a stab at my wealth. It is all envy!

_Her_. This blunt sincerity is not to the Lydian's taste.
Things are come to a strange pass, he thinks, if a poor man is
to hold up his head, and speak his mind in this frank manner! He
will remember Solon presently, when the time comes for Cyrus to
conduct him in chains to the pyre.

I heard Clotho, the other day, reading over the various dooms. Among
other things, Croesus was to be led captive by Cyrus, and Cyrus to
be murdered by the queen of the Massagetae.

There she is:

that Scythian woman, riding on a white horse; do you see?

_Ch_. Yes.

_Her_. That is Tomyris. She will cut off Cyrus's head, and put it
into a wine-skin filled with blood. And do you see his son, the boy
there?
That is Cambyses. He will succeed to his father's throne; and, after
innumerable defeats in Libya and Ethiopia, will finally slay the
god Apis, and die a raving madman.

_Ch_. What fun!

Why, at this moment no one would presume to meet their eyes; from
such a height do they look down on the rest of mankind.

Who would believe that before long one of them will be a captive,
and the other have his head in a bottle of blood?--But who is that
in the purple robe, Hermes?--the one with the diadem?

His cook has just been cleaning a fish, and is now handing him a
ring,--"in yonder sea-girt isle"; "'tis, sure, some king."

_Her_.Ha, ha! A parody, this time.--That is Polycrates, tyrant of
Samos.

He is extremely well pleased with his lot: yet that slave who now
stands at his side will betray him to the satrap Oroetes, and he
will be crucified. It will not take long to overturn _his_ prosperity,
poor man! This, too, I had from Clotho.

_Ch_.

I like Clotho; she is a lady of spirit. Have at them, madam! Off
with their heads!

To the cross with them! Let them know that they are men. And let
them be exalted in the meantime; the higher they mount, the heavier
will be the fall. I shall have a merry time of it hereafter, identifying
their naked shades, as they come aboard; no more purple robes then;
no tiaras; no golden couches!

_Her_.

So much for royalty; and now to the common herd. Do you see them,
Charon;--on their ships and on the field of battle; crowding the
law-courts and following the plough; usurers here, beggars
there?

_Ch_. I see them. What a jostling life it is! What a world of
ups and downs! Their cities remind me of bee-hives. Every man
keeps a sting for his neighbour's service; and a few, like wasps,
make spoil of their weaker brethren. But what are all these misty
shapes that beset them on every side?

_Her_. Hopes, Fears, Follies, Pleasures, Greeds, Hates, Grudges, and
such like. They differ in their habits. The Folly is a domestic creature,
with vested rights of its own. The same with the Grudge, the
Hate, the Envy, the Greed, the Know-not, and the What's-to-do. But the
Fear and the Hope fly overhead. The Fear swoops on its prey from
above; sometimes it is content with startling a man out of his wits,
sometimes it frightens him in real earnest. The Hope hovers almost
within reach, and just when a man thinks he is going to catch it, off
it flies, and leaves him gaping--like Tantalus in the water, you
know.

Now look closely, and you will make out the Fates up aloft, spinning
each man his spindle-full; from that spindle a man hangs by a narrow
thread. Do you see what looks like a cobweb, coming down to each man
from the spindles?

_Ch_. I see each has a very slight thread. They are mostly entangled,
one with another, and that other with a third.

_Her_. Of course they are. Because the first man has got to be murdered
by the second, and he by the third; or again, B is to be A's heir (A's
thread being the shorter), and C is to be B's. That is what the
entangling means. But you see what thin threads they all have to
depend on. Now here is one drawn high up into the air; presently his
thread will snap, when the weight becomes too much for it, and down
he will come with a bang: whereas yonder fellow hangs so low that
when he does fall it makes no noise; his next-door neighbours will
scarcely hear him drop.

_Ch_. How absurd it all is!

_Her_. My dear Charon, there is no word for the absurdity of it. They
do take it all so seriously, that is the best of it; and then,
long before they have finished scheming, up comes good old Death,
and whisks them off, and all is over!

You observe that he has a fine staff of assistants at his
command;--agues, consumptions, fevers, inflammations, swords,
robbers, hemlock, juries, tyrants,--not one of which gives them a
moment's concern so long as they are prosperous; but when they come
to grief, then it is Alack!

and Well-a-day! and Oh dear me! If only they would start with a clear
understanding that they are mortal, that after a brief sojourn on the
earth they will wake from the dream of life, and leave all behind
them,--they would live more sensibly, and not mind dying so much. As
it is, they get it into their heads that what they possess they possess
for good and all; the consequence is, that when Death's officer calls
for them, and claps on a fever or a consumption, they take it amiss;
the parting is so wholly unexpected.

Yonder is a man building his house, urging the workmen to use all dispatch.
How would he take the news, that he was just to see the roof on
and all complete, when he would have to take his departure, and
leave all the enjoyment to his heir?

--hard fate, not once to sup beneath it! There again is one rejoicing
over the birth of a son; the child is to inherit his grandfather's
name, and the father is celebrating the occasion with his friends.

He would not be so pleased, if he knew that the boy was to die before
he was eight years old! It is natural enough: he sees before him
some happy father of an Olympian victor, and has no eyes for his neighbour
there, who is burying a child; _that_ thin-spun thread escapes his
notice. Behold, too, the money-grubbers, whom the aforesaid
Death's-officers will never permit to be money-spenders; and the noble
army of litigant neighbours!

_Ch_. Yes! I see it all; and I ask myself, what is the satisfaction
in life? What is it that men bewail the loss of? Take their kings;
they seem to be best off, though, as you say, they have their
happiness on a precarious tenure; but apart from that, we shall
find their pleasures to be outweighed by the vexations inseparable
from their position--worry and anxiety, flattery here, conspiracy
there, enmity everywhere; to say nothing of the tyranny of Sorrow,
Disease, and Passion, with whom there is confessedly no respect of
persons.

And if the king's lot is a hard one, we may make a pretty shrewd guess
at that of the commoner. Come now, I will give you a similitude for
the life of man. Have you ever stood at the foot of a waterfall, and
marked the bubbles rising to the surface and gathering into foam?
Some are quite small, and break as soon as they are born. Others
last longer; new ones come to join them, and they swell up to a
great size:

yet in the end they burst, as surely as the rest; it cannot be otherwise.
There you have human life.

All men are bubbles, great or small, inflated with the breath of life.
Some are destined to last for a brief space, others perish in the very
moment of birth: but all must inevitably burst.

_Her_. Homer compares mankind to leaves. Your simile is full as good
as his.

_Ch_. And being the things they are, they do--the things you see;
squabbling among themselves, and contending for dominion and power
and riches, all of which they will have to leave behind them, when
they come down to us with their penny apiece.

Now that we are up here, how would it be for me to cry out to them
at the top of my voice, to abstain from their vain endeavours, and
live with the prospect of Death before their eyes?

'Fools' (I might say), 'why so much in earnest? Rest from your toils.
You will not live for ever. Nothing of the pomp of this world will
endure; nor can any man take anything hence when he dies. He
will go naked out of the world, and his house and his lands and his
gold will be another's, and ever another's.' If I were to call out
something of this sort, loud enough for them to hear, would it not
do some good?

Would not the world be the better for it?

_Her_. Ah, my poor friend, you know not what you say. Ignorance and
deceit have done for them what Odysseus did for his crew when he
was afraid of the Sirens; they have waxed men's ears up so
effectually, that no drill would ever open them.

How then should they hear you? You might shout till your lungs
gave way. Ignorance is as potent here as the waters of Lethe are with
you.

There are a few, to be sure, who from a regard for Truth have refused
the wax process; men whose eyes are open to discern good and evil.

_Ch_. Well then, we might call out to _them_?

_Her_. There again: where would be the use of telling them what they
know already? See, they stand aloof from the rest of mankind, and scoff
at all that goes on; nothing is as they would have it. Nay,
they are evidently bent on giving life the slip, and joining you.

Their condemnations of folly make them unpopular here.

_Ch_.

Well done, my brave boys! There are not many of them, though,
Hermes.

_Her_. These must serve. And now let us go down.

_Ch_.

There is still one thing I had a fancy to see. Show me the receptacles
into which they put the corpses, and your office will have been
discharged.

_Her_. Ah, _sepulchres_, those are called, or _tombs_, or _graves_.

Well, do you see those mounds, and columns, and pyramids, outside the
various city walls? Those are the store-chambers of the dead.

_Ch_.

Why, they are putting flowers on the stones, and pouring costly essences
upon them. And in front of some of the mounds they have piled up
faggots, and dug trenches. Look: there is a splendid banquet laid
out, and they are burning it all; and pouring wine and mead, I suppose
it is, into the trenches!

What does it all mean?

_Her_. What satisfaction it affords to their friends in Hades, I am
unable to say. But the idea is, that the shades come up, and get as
close as they can, and feed upon the savoury steam of the meat, and
drink the mead in the trench.

_Ch_.

Eat and drink, when their skulls are dry bone? But I am wasting my
breath: you bring them down every day;--_you_ can say whether they are
likely ever to get up again, once they are safely underground!
That would be too much of a good thing! You would have your work
cut out for you and no mistake, if you had not only to bring them
down, but also to take them up again when they wanted a drink. Oh,
fools and blockheads!

You little know how we arrange matters, or what a gulf is set betwixt
the living and the dead!

The buried and unburied, both are Death's.
He ranks alike the beggar and the king; Thersites sits by fair-haired
Thetis' son.
Naked and withered roam the fleeting shades Together through the
fields of asphodel.

_Her_. Bless me, what a deluge of Homer! And now I think of it, I must
show you Achilles's tomb. There it is on the Trojan shore, at
Sigeum.
And across the water is Rhoeteum, where Ajax lies buried.

_Ch_. Rather small tombs, considering. Now show me the great
cities, those that we hear talked about in Hades; Nineveh, Babylon,
Mycenae, Cleonae, and Troy itself. I shipped numbers across from
there, I remember. For ten years running I had no time to haul my
boat up and clean it.

_Her_. Why, as to Nineveh, it is gone, friend, long ago, and has left
no trace behind it; there is no saying whereabouts it may have been.
But there is Babylon, with its fine battlements and its enormous
wall.

Before long it will be as hard to find as Nineveh. As to Mycenae and
Cleonae, I am ashamed to show them to you, let alone Troy. You will
throttle Homer, for certain, when you get back, for puffing them
so.

They were prosperous cities, too, in their day; but they have gone the
way of all flesh. Cities, my friend, die, just like men;
stranger still, so do rivers! Inachus is gone from Argos--not a puddle
left.

_Ch_. Oh, Homer, Homer! You and your 'holy Troy,' and your 'city of
broad streets,' and your 'strong-walled Cleonae'!--By the way, what
is that battle going on over there? What are they murdering one another
about?

_Her_.

It is between the Argives and the Lacedaemonians. The general who lies
there half-dead, writing an inscription on the trophy with his own
blood, is Othryades.

_Ch_. And what were they fighting for?

_Her_. For the field of battle, neither more nor less.

_Ch_. The fools! Not to know that though each one of them should win
to himself a whole Peloponnesus, he will get but a bare foot of ground
from Aeacus! As to yonder plain, one nation will till it after another,
and many a time will that trophy be turned up by the plough.

_Her_. Even so. And now let us get down, and put these mountains to
rights again. After which, I must be off on my errand, and you back to
your ferry. You will see me there before long, with the day's
contingent of shades.

_Ch_. I am much obliged to you, Hermes; the service shall be
perpetuated in my records. Thanks to you, my outing has been a
success.

Dear, dear, what a world it is!--And never a word of Charon!

F.

OF SACRIFICE

Methinks that man must lie sore stricken under the hand of sorrow,
who has not a smile left for the folly of his superstitious brethren,
when he sees them at work on sacrifice and festival and worship of
the gods, hears the subject of their prayers, and marks the nature
of their creed.

Nor, I fancy, will a smile be all. He will first have a question to
ask himself: Is he to call them devout worshippers or very outcasts,
who think so meanly of God as to suppose that he can require
anything at the hand of man, can take pleasure in their flattery, or
be wounded by their neglect?

Thus the afflictions of the Calydonians, that long tale of misery and
violence, ending with the death of Meleager--all is attributed to the
resentment of Artemis, at Oeneus's neglect in not inviting her to
a feast.

She must have taken the disappointment very much to heart. I
fancy I see her, poor Goddess, left all alone in Heaven, after the
rest have set out for Calydon, brooding darkly over the
fine spread at which she will not be present.
Those Ethiopians, too; privileged, thrice-happy mortals!

Zeus, one supposes, is not unmindful of the handsome manner in which
they entertained him and all his family for twelve days running.

With the Gods, clearly, nothing goes for nothing. Each blessing
has its price.
Health is to be had, say, for a calf; wealth, for a couple of yoke of
oxen; a kingdom, for a hecatomb.

A safe conduct from Troy to Pylos has fetched as much as nine bulls, and
a passage from Aulis to Troy has been quoted at a princess. For six
yoke of oxen and a robe, Athene sold Hecuba a reprieve for Troy; and
it is to be presumed that a cock, a garland, a handful of frankincense,
will each buy something.

Chryses, that experienced divine and eminent theologian, seems to
have realized this principle. Returning from his fruitless visit to
Agamemnon, he approaches Apollo with the air of a creditor, and
demands repayment of his loan.

His attitude is one of remonstrance, almost, 'Good Apollo,' he cries,
'here have I been garlanding your temple, where never garland hung
before, and burning unlimited thigh- pieces of bulls and goats
upon your altars: yet when I suffer wrong, you take no heed; you
count my benefactions as nothing worth.'

The God is quite put out of countenance: he seizes his bow, settles
down in the harbour and smites the Achaeans with shafts of pestilence,
them and their mules and their dogs.
And now that I have mentioned Apollo, I cannot refrain from an
allusion to certain other passages in his life, which are recorded
by the sages. With his unfortunate love affairs--the sad end of
Hyacinth, and the cruelty of Daphne--we are not concerned. But when
that vote of censure was passed on him for the slaughter of the
Cyclopes, he was dismissed from Heaven, and condemned to share the
fortunes of men upon earth. It was then that he served Admetus in
Thessaly, and Laomedon in Phrygia; and in the latter service he was
not alone. He and Posidon together, since better might not be, made
bricks and built the walls of Troy; and did not even get their full
wages;--the Phrygian, it is said, remained their debtor for no less
a sum than five-and-twenty shillings Trojan, and odd pence. These,
and yet holier mysteries than these, are the high themes of our
poets. They tell of Hephaestus and of Prometheus; of Cronus and
Rhea, and well-nigh all the family of Zeus. And as they never
commence their poems without bespeaking the assistance of the Muses,
we must conclude that it is under that divine inspiration that they
sing, how Cronus unmanned his father Uranus, and was king in his
room; and how, like Argive Thyestes, he swallowed his own children;
and how thereafter Rhea saved Zeus by the fraud of the stone, and
the child was exposed in Crete, and suckled by a goat, as Telephus
was by a hind, and Cyrus the Great by a bitch; and how he dethroned
his father, and threw him into prison, and was king; and of his
many wives, and how finally (like a Persian or an Assyrian) he
married his own sister Hera; and of his love adventures, and how
he peopled the Heaven with gods, ay, and with demi-gods, the rogued
for he wooed the daughters of earth, appearing to them now in a
shower of gold, now in the form of a bull or a swan or an eagle; a
very Proteus for versatility. Once, and only once, he conceived
within his own brain, and gave birth to Athene. For Dionysus, they
say, he tore from the womb of Semele before the fire had yet consumed
her, and hid the child within his thigh, till the time of travail
was come.
Similarly, we find Hera conceiving without external assistance, and
giving birth to Hephaestus; no child of fortune he, but a base
mechanic, living all his life at the forge, soot-begrimed as any
stoker. He is not even sound of limb; he has been lame ever since
Zeus threw him down from Heaven. Fortunately for us the Lemnians
broke his fall, or there would have been an end of him, as surely
as there was of Astyanax when he was flung from the battlements.
But Hephaestus is nothing to Prometheus. Who knows not the sorrows
of that officious philanthropist? How he too fell a victim to the
wrath of Zeus, and was carried into Scythia, and nailed up on
Caucasus, with an eagle to keep him company and make daily havoc
of his liver? However, _there_ was a reckoning settled, at any rate.
But Rhea, now! We cannot, I think, pass over her conduct unnoticed.
It is surely most discreditable;--a lady of her venerable years,
the mother of such a family, still feeling the pangs of love and
jealousy, and carrying her beloved Attis about with her in the
lion-drawn car,--and he so ill qualified to play the lover's part!
After that, we can but wink, if we find Aphrodite making a slip,
or Selene time after time pulling up in mid-career to pay a visit
to Endymion.
But enough of scandal. Borne on the wings of poesy, let us take
flight for Heaven itself, as Homer and Hesiod have done before us,
and see how all is disposed up there. The vault is of brass on the
under side, as we know from Homer. But climb over the edge, and
take a peep up.
You are now actually in Heaven. Observe the increase of light; here
is a purer Sun, and brighter stars; daylight is everywhere, and the
floor is of gold. We arrive first at the abode of the Seasons; they
are the fortresses of Heaven. Then we have Iris and Hermes, the
servants and messengers of Zeus; and next Hephaestus's smithy, which
is stocked with all manner of cunning contrivances. Last come the
dwellings of the Gods, and the palace of Zeus. All are the work of
Hephaestus; and noble work it is.

Hard by the throne of Zeus
(I suppose we must adapt our language to our altitude)
sit all the gods.
Their eyes are turned downwards; intently they search every corner
of the earth; is there nowhere a fire to be seen, or the steam of
burnt- offerings 
... in eddying clouds upborne?
If a sacrifice is going forward, all mouths are open to feast upon
the smoke; like flies they settle on the altar to drink up the
trickling streams of blood. If they are dining at home, nectar and
ambrosia is the bill of fare. In ancient days, mortals have eaten
and drunk at their table. Such were Ixion and Tantalus; but they
forgot their manners, and talked too much.How glad I am to see you!"  and he was seated in the
carriage with that rosy-cheeked, merry-faced little laddie, between
him and Nan, before he fairly realised that this was Little Brother,
grown well and strong, as even Nan had not dared hope he would do in
so few months.

And he had not forgotten his old friend either--Little Brother had
not,--or, if he had, he renewed the friendship very speedily, and
during Theo's stay the two were as inseparable as of old.

It was a happy week for Nan, for she could see how Theodore had been
growing in the best ways during the months of their separation, and
she was not a bit disappointed in him, but proud to have her new
friends know him. And, as for the boy, it was a glimpse into a new
life for him--that week in a lovely Christian home.  He made up his
mind that, sometime, he would have just such a home of his own, and he
went back to the city well content to leave these two in such tender
hands and amid such delightful surroundings.

Through all the winter that followed, Theodore was busy and
happy. When the night-school began, he coaxed Mr. Hunt to take charge
of the clubroom, for Theodore wanted to learn and fit himself for
better work by and by, and with such a purpose he made rapid progress
in his studies.

But, busy as he was, he still found time for his Saturday evening work
for the florist, that he might continue his Sunday flower mission, for
he knew that those few blossoms were all of brightness and beauty that
ever entered into some of those shut-in, poverty-pinched lives about
him.

Then, at Christmas time, Mr. Scott and Mrs.  Rawson and the King's
Daughters Circle helped him prepare a Christmas tree in the clubroom;
a tree that bore a gift for every child and woman in the two
houses. The children almost went wild over that, the first Christmas
tree that many of them had ever seen; and then the eleven girls in
their pretty winter dresses served all the company with cake and
cream.

Theodore was too happy and busy to eat his share, but that was all
right, for Teddy Hunt had no trouble at all in disposing of two
portions.

When the last candle had ceased to glimmer among the green branches,
and the last bit of cake and spoonful of cream had disappeared, the
company slowly and lingeringly departed, already looking forward to
just such another Christmas three hundred and sixty-five days
later. Then with many a "Merry Christmas" to Theodore, the girls and
Mrs. Rawson took their departure, and Mr. Scott followed them, only
stopping a moment, to say,

"We left your Christmas gift in your room, my boy. I hope you will
like it."

Wondering what his gift might be, the boy put out the lights and
locked the clubroom door and hurried down to his room, remembering
then that his teacher had asked for his key earlier in the evening.

The key was in the door now, and there was a light in the
room. Theodore pushed open the door and then stopped short with a cry
of delighted surprise, for he never would have recognised this as the
bare little room he had left.

A neat rug covered the floor, fresh shades hung at the windows; a
white iron bedstead with fluffy mattress and fresh white bedding stood
where the old bedstead had been, and in place of the pine table and
chairs were a neat oak bureau, and a washstand with toilet set and
towels, three good, comfortable chairs and a desk that made Theo's
eyes shine with delight. But best of all was a picture that hung on
the wall facing the door--a picture of the bishop with that tender
look in the eyes that the boy remembered so well.

On a card, slipped in the corner of the frame, was written,

"From Nan and Little Brother," and Theodore, as he looked and looked,
felt that there was nothing left for him to desire.

He was still standing in the middle of the floor, gazing at the
picture, when there was a knock at the door and as he opened it in
flocked the eleven girls with Mrs. Rawson and Mr. Scott behind them.

"Do you like it, Theodore?"

"We _couldn't_ go home till we saw you here," they exclaimed, and
laughed and chattered joyously when they saw that the boy was too
pleased and delighted for any words, and then they went away with
their own hearts full of the joy of giving, to write a circular letter
to Nan telling her all about it.

After this the winter passed quietly to Theodore.  He was well and
strong, and he was busy day and evening, and he was as happy a boy as
could be found in all that city.

And the weeks and months slipped away until two years had gone by, and
it was time for Carrots to be released.

Theodore ascertained the day and hour when he would leave the
penitentiary and met him at the very gate with a warm and friendly
greeting, and took him at once to his own room.

He searched the pale face of the boy, wondering whether there really
was in it a change for the better, or not. It seemed to him less
sullen and more thoughtful than it had been two years before, but he
was not sure. Certainly, Carrots was very quiet. It seemed almost as
if he had forgotten how to talk. He looked about Theo's neat,
comfortable room, evidently noting the changes there, but he made no
comment.

Theodore had set out a table with a good supper for the two, and
Carrots ate as if he enjoyed the food. When the meal was ended, he
leaned back in his chair, and as he looked straight into Theodore's
eyes, said slowly,

"What made ye do it, Tode?"

"Do what--bring you here to supper?"

"Yes, an' write all them letters to me, an'--an' everything?"

"Why, Carrots, it's this way. I served another fellow an' awful mean
trick once, and I've been trying mighty hard to find him, and make it
up to him, but I haven't found him yet, and so I've tried to do a
little for you instead of him--don't you see?"

Carrots nodded, and Theo fancied that he looked a little disappointed.

"Then 'twasn't really me you wanted to help?" he said, gravely.

"Yes, 'twas, too," answered Theo, quickly.  "I'd have done what I
could for you, anyhow, Carrots, but I do _wish_ I could find
him," he added, sorrowfully.

"What's his name?" inquired Carrots.

"Jack Finney."

"What?" exclaimed the boy, staring at Theodore as if he could not
believe his ears.

"Jack Finney," repeated Theo, wonderingly.

"Well, I never! Tode--_I'm_ Jack Finney."

"You?" cried Theodore, starting up excitedly.  "You Mrs. Russell's
Jack Finney?"

The boy nodded again. "I guess so. I was in her class in the mission
school."

Theo's face was all alight as he exclaimed, "Oh, Carrots--no, Jack,
I'll never call you Carrots again--Jack, I'm too glad for anything!
And now look here, Jack Finney, you've _got_ to be the right kind
of a chap from this on. I won't let you go wrong. I _can't_ let
you go wrong, Jack. It--it seems as if it'll be all my fault if you
do."

And Jack, looking again straight into Theodore's eyes, answered
slowly, "I guess I've had 'bout enough o' crooked doin's. If you'll
stand by me, I'll make a try on the other line, anyhow."

"I'll stand by you every time, Jack," cried Theodore, earnestly.

And he did, through months of alternate hope and discouragement, for
Jack did not find the upward road an easy one. The system of morality
which Socrates made it the business of his life to teach was raised
upon the firm basis of religion. The first principles of virtuous
conduct which are common to all mankind are, according to this excellent
moralist, laws of God; and the conclusive argument by which he
supports this opinion is, that no man departs from these principles
with impunity.--ENFIELD.
All sects are different, because they come from men; morality is
everywhere the same, because it comes from God..