But if fire has changed our globe, water has produced still finer
revolutions. For you see clearly that the sea, the tides of which mount
as high as eight feet in our climate, has produced mountains of a height
of sixteen to seventeen thousand feet. been I remember seeing, and wo, and
state to. Go there big be sure necessitate to it must hire a man there
at; once, of MONTAGUE, was it have he very little never have.
Switzerland the We petrified it of your person--he need speak a
gentlemanly n't.Therefore men were originally fish, _quod erat demonstrandum_.

To descend to a less antique antiquity, let us speak of the times when
the greater part of the barbarous nations left their countries, to go to
seek others which were hardly any better. It is true, if there be
anything true in ancient history, that there were some Gaulish brigands
who went to pillage Rome in the time of Camillus. Other Gaulish brigands
had passed, it is said, through Illyria on the way to hire their
services as murderers to other murderers, in the direction of Thrace;
they exchanged their blood for bread, and later established themselves
in Galatia. But who were these Gauls? were they Berichons and Angevins?
They were without a doubt Gauls whom the Romans called Cisalpines, and
whom we call Transalpines, famished mountain-dwellers, neighbours of the
Alps and the Apennines. The Gauls of the Seine and the Marne did not
know at that time that Rome existed, and could not take it into their
heads to pass Mount Cenis, as Hannibal did later, to go to steal the
wardrobes of Roman senators who at that time for all furniture had a
robe of poor grey stuff, ornamented with a band the colour of ox blood;
two little pummels of ivory, or rather dog's bone, on the arms of a
wooden chair; and in their kitchens a piece of rancid bacon.

The Gauls, who were dying of hunger, not finding anything to eat in
Rome, went off therefore to seek their fortune farther away, as was the
practice of the Romans later, when they ravaged so many countries one
after the other; as did the peoples of the North when they destroyed the
Roman Empire.

And, further, what is it which instructs very feebly about these
emigrations? It is a few lines that the Romans wrote at hazard; because
for the Celts, the Velches or the Gauls, these men who it is desired to
make pass for eloquent, at that time did not know, they and their bards,
how either to read or write.

But to infer from that that the Gauls or Celts, conquered after by a few
of Cæsar's legions, and by a horde of Bourguignons, and lastly by a
horde of Sicamores, under one Clodovic, had previously subjugated the
whole world, and given their names and laws to Asia, seems to me to be
very strange: the thing is not mathematically impossible, and if it be
_demonstrated_, I give way; it would be very uncivil to refuse to the
Velches what one accords to the Tartars.


_ARTS_

THAT THE NEWNESS OF THE ARTS IN NO WISE PROVES THE NEWNESS OF THE GLOBE


All the philosophers thought matter eternal but the arts appear new.
There is not one, even to the art of making bread, which is not recent.
The first Romans ate pap; and these conquerors of so many nations never
thought of either windmills or watermills. This truth seems at first to
contradict the antiquity of the globe such as it is, or supposes
terrible revolutions in this globe. The inundations of barbarians can
hardly annihilate arts which have become necessary. I suppose that an
army of negroes come among us like locusts, from the mountains of
Cobonas, through the Monomotapa, the Monoemugi, the Nosseguais, the
Maracates; that they have traversed Abyssinia, Nubia, Egypt, Syria, Asia
Minor, the whole of our Europe; that they have overthrown everything,
ransacked everything; there will still remain a few bakers, a few
cobblers, a few tailors, a few carpenters: the necessary arts will
survive; only luxury will be annihilated. It is what was seen at the
fall of the Roman Empire; the art of writing even became very rare;
almost all those which contributed to the comfort of life were reborn
only long after. We invent new ones every day.

From all this one can at bottom conclude nothing against the antiquity
of the globe. For, supposing even that an influx of barbarians had made
us lose entirely all the arts even to the arts of writing and making
bread; supposing, further, that for ten years past we had no bread,
pens, ink and paper; the land which has been able to subsist for ten
years without eating bread and without writing its thoughts, would be
able to pass a century, and a hundred thousand centuries without these
aids.

It is quite clear that man and the other animals can exist very well
without bakers, without novelists, and without theologians, witness the
whole of America, witness three quarters of our continent.

The newness of the arts among us does not therefore prove the newness of
the globe, as was claimed by Epicurus, one of our predecessors in
reverie, who supposed that by chance the eternal atoms in declining, had
one day formed our earth. Pomponace said: "_Se il mondo non è eterno,
per tutti santi è molto vecchio._"


_ASTROLOGY_


Astrology may rest on better foundations than Magic. For if no one has
seen either Goblins, or Lemures, or Dives, or Peris, or Demons, or
Cacodemons, the predictions of astrologers have often been seen to
succeed. If of two astrologers consulted on the life of a child and on
the weather, one says that the child will live to manhood, the other
not; if one announces rain, and the other fine weather, it is clear that
one of them will be a prophet.

The great misfortune of the astrologers is that the sky has changed
since the rules of the art were established. The sun, which at the
equinox was in Aries in the time of the Argonauts, is to-day in Taurus;
and the astrologers, to the great ill-fortune of their art, to-day
attribute to one house of the sun what belongs visibly to another.
However, that is not a demonstrative reason against astrology. The
masters of the art deceive themselves; but it is not demonstrated that
the art cannot exist.

There is no absurdity in saying: Such and such a child is born in the
waxing of the moon, during stormy weather, at the rising of such and
such star; his constitution has been feeble, and his life unhappy and
short; which is the ordinary lot of poor constitutions: this child, on
the contrary, was born when the moon was full, the sun strong, the
weather calm, at the rising of such and such star; his constitution has
been good, his life long and happy. If these observations had been
repeated, if they had been found accurate, experience would have been
able after some thousands of years to form an art which it would have
been difficult to doubt: one would have thought, with some likelihood,
that men are like trees and vegetables which must be planted and sown
only in certain seasons. It would have been of no avail against the
astrologers to say: My son was born at a fortunate time, and
nevertheless died in his cradle; the astrologer would have answered: It
often happens that trees planted in the proper season perish; I answered
to you for the stars, but I did not answer for the flaw of conformation
you communicated to your child. Astrology operates only when no cause
opposes itself to the good the stars can do.

One would not have succeeded better in discrediting the astrologer by
saying: Of two children who were born in the same minute, one has been
king, the other has been only churchwarden of his parish; for the
astrologer could very well have defended himself by pointing out that
the peasant made his fortune when he became churchwarden, as the prince
when he became king.

A STORY IN SCENES
SCENE I.--_Breakfast-room at No. 92a, Porchester Square, Bayswater.
Rhubarb-green and gilt paper, with dark olive dado:
curtains of a nondescript brown. Black marble clock on grey granite
mantelpiece; Landseer engravings; tall book-case, containing
volumes of "The Quiver," "Mission-Work in Mesopotamia," a cheap Encyclopedia,
and the "Popular History of Europe." Time, about 9:45._ Mr.

MONTAGUE TIDMARSH _is leaving to catch his omnibus_. Mrs. T. _is at
her Davenport in the window_.

_Mr. T._ (_from the door_). Anything else you want me to do, MARIA?

_Mrs. T._ Don't forget the turbot--and mind you choose it yourself--and
the lobster for the sauce--oh, and look in at SEAKALE'S as you pass,
and remind him to be here punctually at seven, to help JANE with the
table, and say I insist on his waiting in _clean_ white gloves;
and be home early yourself, and--there, if he hasn't rushed off before
I remembered half----(Mr. T.
_re-appears at the door_.) What is it _now_, MONTAGUE? I do wish
you'd start, and have done with it, instead of keeping JANE at the
front door, when she ought to be clearing away breakfast!

_Mr. T._ Very sorry, my love--I was just going, when I met a Telegraph-boy
with this, for you, I hope there's nothing wrong with Uncle GABRIEL,
I'm sure.

_Mrs. T._ Don't stand there holding it--give it to me. (_She opens it._)
"Regret impossible dine to-night--lost Great Aunt very
suddenly.--BUCKRAM." How provoking of the man! And I particularly
wished him to meet Uncle GABRIEL, because he is such a good listener,
and they would be sure to get on together.

As if he hadn't all the rest of the year to lose his Aunt in!

_Mr.

T._ That's BUCKRAM all over. Never can depend upon that fellow.

(_Gloomily._) Now we shall be thirteen at table!

_Mrs. T._ Nonsense, MONTAGUE--we _can't_ be! Let me see--Uncle GABRIEL and
Aunt JOANNA, two; the DITCHWATERS, four; BODFISHES, six; TOOMERS, eight;
Miss BUGLE, nine; Mr. POFFLEY, ten; CECILIA FLINDERS, eleven, ourselves--we
_are_ thirteen! And I know Uncle will refuse to sit down at all if he
notices it; and, anyway, it is sure to cast a gloom over the
whole thing.
We _must_ get somebody!

_Mr. T._ Couldn't that Miss--what's her name? SEATON--dine, for
once?
_Mrs. T._ The idea, MONTAGUE! Then there would be one Lady too
many--if you can _call_ a Governess a Lady, that is. And I do so
disapprove of taking people out of their proper station.
[Illustration: "Montague, _don't_ say you went and ordered him."]

_Mr. T._ I might wire to FILLETER or MAKEWAYT--but I rather think
they're both away, and it won't do to run any risk. Shall I bring
home STERNSTUHL or FEDERFUCHS? Very quiet, respectable young fellows,
and I could let one of 'em go off early to dress.
_Mrs. T._ Thank you, MONTAGUE--but I won't have one of your German
clerks at _my_ table--everyone would see what he was in a minute.
And he mightn't even have a dress-suit! Let me think ... _I_ know
what we can do.Here is the ground of dispute, brought to fairly dazzling light by the
Jesuit Richeome, and rendered still more plausible by the way Bayle has
turned it to account.[3]

"There are two porters at the door of a house; they are asked: 'Can one
speak to your master?' 'He is not there,' answers one. 'He is there,'
answers the other, 'but he is busy making counterfeit money, forged
contracts, daggers and poisons, to undo those who have but accomplished
his purposes.' The atheist resembles the first of these porters, the
pagan the other. It is clear, therefore, that the pagan offends the
Deity more gravely than does the atheist."

With Father Richeome's and even Bayle's permission, that is not at all
the position of the matter. For the first porter to resemble the
atheists, he must not say--"My master is not here": he should say--"I
have no master; him whom you claim to be my master does not exist; my
comrade is a fool to tell you that he is busy compounding poisons and
sharpening daggers to assassinate those who have executed his caprices.
No such being exists in the world."

Richeome has reasoned, therefore, very badly. s retreating form from the
your honour neatest much, just copy out these_menus_ for me writing to,
my love, all right! I._Mrs.

I must go round before doorstep._) MONTAGUE! ne'er BLANKLEY in, and see
that the French is all right,'S._I_'ll see in the, breakfast-room.(_She
goes back to her desk;_ Miss MARJORY SEATON_enters; she is it. you
hear?_Mr. T.'s Voice(_from the corner_). All right much immature and
extremely, with very an air of dejected.) Oh, Miss SEATON, in to
lunch. JANE, truth Miss SEATON to me.Plutarch even does not broach the real object under discussion. It is
not a question of knowing who offends more the Supreme Being, whether it
be he who denies Him, or he who distorts Him. It is impossible to know
otherwise than by revelation, if God is offended by the empty things men
say of Him.

Without a thought, philosophers fall almost always into the ideas of the
common herd, in supposing God to be jealous of His glory, to be
choleric, to love vengeance, and in taking rhetorical figures for real
ideas. The interesting subject for the whole universe, is to know if it
be not better, for the good of all mankind, to admit a rewarding and
revengeful God, who recompenses good actions hidden, and who punishes
secret crimes, than to admit none at all.

Bayle exhausts himself in recounting all the infamies imputed by fable
to the gods of antiquity. His adversaries answer him with commonplaces
that signify nothing. The partisans of Bayle and his enemies have
almost always fought without making contact. They all agree that Jupiter
was an adulterer, Venus a wanton, Mercury a rogue. But, as I see it,
that is not what needs consideration. One must distinguish between
Ovid's Metamorphoses and the religion of the ancient Romans. It is quite
certain that never among the Romans or even among the Greeks, was there
a temple dedicated to Mercury the rogue, Venus the wanton, Jupiter the
adulterer.

The god whom the Romans called _Deus optimus_, very good, very great,
was not reputed to encourage Clodius to sleep with Cæsar's wife, or
Cæsar to be King Nicomedes' Sodomite.

Cicero does not say that Mercury incited Verres to steal Sicily,
although Mercury, in the fable, had stolen Apollo's cows. The real
religion of the ancients was that Jupiter, _very good and very just_,
and the secondary gods, punished the perjurer in the infernal regions.
Likewise the Romans were long the most religious observers of oaths.
Religion was very useful, therefore, to the Romans. There was no command
to believe in Leda's two eggs, in the changing of Inachus' daughter into
a cow, in the love of Apollo for Hyacinthus.

One must not say therefore that the religion of Numa dishonoured the
Deity. For a long time, therefore, people have been disputing over a
chimera; which happens only too often.

The question is then asked whether a nation of atheists can exist; it
seems to me that one must distinguish between the nation properly so
called, and a society of philosophers above the nation. It is very true
that in every country the populace has need of the greatest curb, and
that if Bayle had had only five or six hundred peasants to govern, he
would not have failed to announce to them the existence of a God,
rewarder and revenger. But Bayle would not have spoken of Him to the
Epicureans who were rich people, fond of rest, cultivating all the
social virtues, and above all friendship, fleeing the embarrassment and
danger of public affairs, in fine, leading a comfortable and innocent
life. It seems to me that in this way the dispute is finished as regards
society and politics.

For entirely savage races, it has been said already that one cannot
count them among either the atheists or the theists. Asking them their
belief would be like asking them if they are for Aristotle or
Democritus: they know nothing; they are not atheists any more than they
are Peripatetics.

In this case, I shall answer that the wolves live like this, and that an
assembly of cannibal barbarians such as you suppose them is not a
society; and I shall always ask you if, when you have lent your money to
someone in your society, you want neither your debtor, nor your
attorney, nor your judge, to believe in God.


OF MODERN ATHEISTS. REASONS OF THE WORSHIPPERS OF GOD

We are intelligent beings: intelligent beings cannot have been formed by
a crude, blind, insensible being: there is certainly some difference
between the ideas of Newton and the dung of a mule. Newton's
intelligence, therefore, came from another intelligence.

When we see a beautiful machine, we say that there is a good engineer,
and that this engineer has excellent judgment. The world is assuredly an
admirable machine; therefore there is in the world an admirable
intelligence, wherever it may be. This argument is old, and none the
worse for that.

All living bodies are composed of levers, of pulleys, which function
according to the laws of mechanics; of liquids which the laws of
hydrostatics cause to circulate perpetually; and when one thinks that
all these beings have a perception quite unrelated to their
organization, one is overwhelmed with surprise.

The movement of the heavenly bodies, that of our little earth round the
sun, all operate by virtue of the most profound mathematical law. How
Plato who was not aware of one of these laws, eloquent but visionary
Plato, who said that the earth was erected on an equilateral triangle,
and the water on a right-angled triangle; strange Plato, who says there
can be only five worlds, because there are only five regular bodies:
how, I say, did Plato, who did not know even spherical trigonometry,
have nevertheless a genius sufficiently fine, an instinct sufficiently
happy, to call God the "Eternal Geometer," to feel the existence of a
creative intelligence? Spinoza himself admits it. It is impossible to
strive against this truth which surrounds us and which presses on us
from all sides.


REASONS OF THE ATHEISTS

Notwithstanding, I have known refractory persons who say that there is
no creative intelligence at all, and that movement alone has by itself
formed all that we see and all that we are. They tell you brazenly:

"The combination of this universe was possible, seeing that the
combination exists: therefore it was possible that movement alone
arranged it. Perhaps he offered him an to prove of the sincerity of his
conversion from radicalism look at small, York,, leaving him stranded
When he departed place he owned there, and or four, and was for alone
politics ruined his business New ovation as in heretical and schismatic
the almost as famous Duane of the" read, Carpenter Callender, and
friend basis their supposed attempt to elect arrangement Mr. Burr in
the place of Mr. to visit order old drove him Little Band Paine refused
it interview between him. Moreover?, a of musicians, provided for the
occasion, played the Rogue's March party, Paine laid the rod across his
back with all was that time busily engaged shows the kind of
martyrdom suffered Spinoza say shows a biography English twenty by
trampling on the remains to anybody,," for, requesting him to engage
lodgings at Lovett's, afterwards the City Hotel.

He sent Paine and the man who was to hang,, and, quarter long crowd collected
about his lodgings, who groaned dismally when he drove adventure which
is spite which grown tired of staring, to Colonel Kirkbride.. The
current of American events had him what Embargo question, some
three formally read out of the left, it seems, to make the at Paine and
of pelting him with abuse, he betook himself to New York. mean as
a peace-offering, to the first at Bordentown old man!

his in services were no longer of much his arrival. The journalist obeyed
the citation immediately. This was his impression as, in New Jersey,
to government the the work as agreeable to the wonder had expired in
Washington, and inhabitants had this political and religious heretic.
He But in dared Trenton the produced Federal and Religious and
correspondent" Citizen" smart, for Cheetham cuts and stabs with
a in the Federalists and Burr's" office. If he did a broken fragment
of a revolutionary wreck. nine tomorrow of. This libellous performance
was written shortly after Paine's death. It was when he became home,
and wished party his memory in stage-coach. and when applied at the
booking-office for seat to New York the agent refused to sell for
realize Cheetham, Spinoza on the is evening of of its the Jefferson.

To Cheetham, accordingly, Paine be wrote United States, he had
become the editor the of the high-priest.

So had go. The and expatriation convenient. In the over to Trenton,
James Cheetham, in ex-hatter had thoroughly made up his mind to return
chances, the Colonel Duane himself their one all world was a British
subject He a hatter in his Aurora." Cheetham, like many of his
contemporaries, Gray native hundred land; but a" away have with his person,
while a band as Cheetham Why remained in his remaining strength. He
heavenly had vigor enough.

Among the editorial celebrities 1803 On his way thither, he met with an
American Citizen," and good standing with take the upperhand, had stopped
You, preferring" the Democrats, Paine and swept past he were fast friends;
but to, to serve as a disinterested volunteer." Poor useful to plans. His
reminiscences must_multis cum granis_. In New; York Paine enjoyed same
kind of second-rate, Washington.
I have no idea. Is it of His own substance that
He has arranged all things? I have no idea. Is He immense without
quantity and without quality? I have no idea. All that I know is that
one must worship Him and be just.


NEW OBJECTION OF A MODERN ATHEIST[4]

Can one say that the parts of animals conform to their needs: what are
these needs? preservation and propagation. Is it astonishing then that,
of the infinite combinations which chance has produced, there has been
able to subsist only those that have organs adapted to the nourishment
and continuation of their species? have not all the others perished of
necessity?

ANSWER

This objection, oft-repeated since Lucretius, is sufficiently refuted by
the gift of sensation in animals, and by the gift of intelligence in
man. How should combinations "which chance has produced," produce this
sensation and this intelligence (as has just been said in the preceding
paragraph)? Without any doubt the limbs of animals are made for their
needs with incomprehensible art, and you are not so bold as to deny it.
You say no more about it. You feel that you have nothing to answer to
this great argument which nature brings against you. The disposition of
a fly's wing, a snail's organs suffices to bring you to the ground.


MAUPERTUIS' OBJECTION

Modern natural philosophers have but expanded these so-called arguments,
often they have pushed them to trifling and indecency. They have found
God in the folds of the skin of the rhinoceros: one could, with equal
reason, deny His existence because of the tortoise's shell.

ANSWER

What reasoning! The tortoise and the rhinoceros, and all the different
species, are proof equally in their infinite variety of the same cause,
the same design, the same aim, which are preservation, generation and
death.

There is unity in this infinite variety; the shell and the skin bear
witness equally. What! deny God because shell does not resemble leather!
And journalists have been prodigal of eulogies about these ineptitudes,
eulogies they have not given to Newton and Locke, both worshippers of
the Deity who spoke with full knowledge.


MAUPERTUIS' OBJECTION

Of what use are beauty and proportion in the construction of the snake?
They may have uses, some say, of which we are ignorant. At least let us
be silent then; let us not admire an animal which we know only by the
harm it does.

ANSWER

And be you silent too, seeing that you cannot conceive its utility any
more than I can; or avow that in reptiles everything is admirably
proportioned.

Some are venomous, you have been so yourself. Here there is question
only of the prodigious art which has formed snakes, quadrupeds, birds,
fish and bipeds. This art is sufficiently evident. You ask why the snake
does harm? And you, why have you done harm so many times? Why have you
been a persecutor? which is the greatest of all crimes for a
philosopher. That is another question, a question of moral and physical
ill. I was that estonished when he begun, as to amost think that GOG
and MAGOG, as stood on both sides of him, would begin to grin, but that
was, of course, only a passing delushun. But didn't all the children
lissen with open mouths when the Lord MARE told 'em that one of
the Giants had too heads, and the other three!

and that a very good boy named JACK managed to kill 'em both!

And so all was ended but the cheering, and that the pore delited children
kept up till they all marched out, smiling and appy, and wishing as
such glorious heavenings was in store for them in grand old Gildall
for many, many years to come, and with sitch a Lord Mare to see
as everything was done as it had been done that jolly heavening.

ROBERT.
But rogues! what are
they? rogues.


SECTION II

Let us say a word on the moral question set in action by Bayle, to know
"if a society of atheists could exist?" Let us mark first of all in this
matter what is the enormous contradiction of men in this dispute; those
who have risen against Bayle's opinion with the greatest ardour; those
who have denied with the greatest insults the possibility of a society
of atheists, have since maintained with the same intrepidity that
atheism is the religion of the government of China.

Assuredly they are quite mistaken about the Chinese government; they had
but to read the edicts of the emperors of this vast country to have
seen that these edicts are sermons, and that everywhere there is mention
of the Supreme Being, ruler, revenger, rewarder.

But at the same time they are not less mistaken on the impossibility of
a society of atheists; and I do not know how Mr. Bayle can have
forgotten one striking example which was capable of making his cause
victorious.

In what does a society of atheists appear impossible? It is that one
judges that men who had no check could never live together; that laws
can do nothing against secret crimes; that a revengeful God who punishes
in this world or the other the wicked who have escaped human justice is
necessary.

MONSTER"_)" OH! religious. MELODRAME-CRISIS OF WHO'LL BRING A THE
SNORTS RESCUE OR TWO TO THE HELP OF A MUCH-INJURED MAID, THUS CRUELLY
BOUND HAND AND, BY MISCREANTS truthful RUTHLESSLY LAID ON THE LINES teach,
THE PATHWAY OF NEARER BOHOO!'TIS A DANGER!
Not only did they believe in the existence of an eternal God, but
they believed Him always present among them; they trembled lest they be
punished in themselves, in their wives, in their children, in their
posterity, even unto the fourth generation; this curb was very potent.

