Produced by David Newman and PG Distributed Proofreaders


The Renaissance of the Vocal Art

A Practical Study of Vitality, Vitalized Energy, of the Physical, Mental
and Emotional Powers of the Singer, through Flexible, Elastic Bodily
Movements

BY EDMUND J. MYER
F.S. Sc. We had now finished supper and the launch had returned for the last
load of troops.

The lieutenant in command of the company gave the order to "fall
in"; the men shouldered their rifles and fell into line. "Forward, march!"
called the lieutenant, and the column swept forward towards the boats.
The women had until now restrained themselves, but, as their
husbands marched away never to return, their feelings could no
longer be restrained.

One young woman of about eighteen, who was leaning against a rock
by the roadside sobbing, when her husband passed, leaped up in
frenzy of passionate love and caught the rifle from his shoulder.

Her first impulse seemed to be to throw the gun away, but suddenly
realizing the futility of such an act she burst into tears, shouldered the
rifle herself and marched on by his side.

Another woman of more mature age threw her arms around the legs of
a tall stalwart man, and drew him bodily from the line.

But the troops marched on and entered the boats. One woman who had been
unnoticed before came down into the shallow water and caught hold of our
last boat as if to prevent its leaving, while others stood mingling their
sobs with the sounds of the wavelets as they broke on the sands. As we passed
away, an expectant mother, standing in bold outline against the twilight
sky, threw up her hands in an agony of despair and then sank upon the stones.
The curtain had fallen upon a drama in actual life deeper in pathos
than any other we had ever seen or ever expected to see. Depth of passion,
depth of love! Who can fathom the human heart?

CHAPTER IV.

WHAT THE TEACHERS DID.

There is a remarkable sameness about the towns in the Philippines.
They all have a large open square about the middle of the town,
around three sides of which are Chinese stores, unless one side
lies open to the sea, and on the fourth is the great stone _ecclesia_.

The streets run at right angles to one another and divide up the
town into creditable squares.

Everybody
in the Philippines lives up-stairs, for the ground is so soaked
with water during the rainy season that it is a menace to health
to live upon the ground floor.

So even the poorest _nippa_ hut is built upon stakes four or five
feet above the ground.

Bacalod is a typical Philippine town.

As we landed, a broad open square was spread
   out before us. Two sides of the square
   were lined with two-story houses
   in which were Chinese stores below and
   Filipino homes above. On the third
   side stood the great
   stone church in whose massive tower the clock was striking the
hour of four, while the fourth lay open to the sea that had borne
us thither.

We landed, but it was in a method new to us and one not usually
employed by the traveling public.

When our sail boat ran aground on the sandy bottom a hundred yards
or more from the shore, a crowd of Filipino men who were on the
beach slowly rolled up their pantaloons and waded out to the
rescue,--for the money that was in it.

The boat's crew elevated their trousers' legs also and slided down
into the water.

Each of us then straddled the neck of a Filipino standing
   in the water and was held by ankles to be steadied while
   our biped mounts proceeded to the shore.

We were now on the ground and face to face with the situation.

To give the reader an idea of the actual conditions
   met by the first teachers who went to the Islands,
   the following is copied from the instructions
   given us in Manila:

1. There shall be two sessions daily of all schools, and the last hour of the
morning session shall be devoted solely to instructing the Filipino
teachers.

2. In cases where teachers are sent to a town in which there is no
school-house, they are expected to secure the aid of the people and have
one built.

3. The American teacher is to see that all studying aloud is stopped.

4.

All supplies must be kept under lock and key.

In towns where there is no case or box to lock the supplies in, and
it is also impossible to get the town council to furnish a case, a
requisition may be sent to Manila, and, if an appropriation can be
secured, one will be made and sent out.

Thus it can be easily seen that we were indeed pioneers.

In many places no school-house was to be found, and in some cases it was
even difficult to get the town council to provide a case in which to keep
the supplies.

The work of the teachers was, in short; to "make the English language
the basis of instruction in the public schools."

On our arrival at Bacalod two schools were found in progress, for some
soldiers had been detailed for the work here previous to our coming. One
of these was for boys and the other, for girls. Thus the work here had been
in a measure simplified, but complications that had arisen at
Talisay, one of the largest and richest towns on the island, demanded
a change of teachers and the writer was assigned to the place as
superintendent.

Here an attempt had been made to start a school but it had failed ignominiously
and a system of education was to be put into operation from the very
start.

The Filipinos are not strong advocates of co-education, so separate
schools were to be started for the boys and the girls.

The one for the boys was gotten well in hand before the one for the girls
was attempted at all.

A few days after reaching the town and securing a home the _presidente_
of the town had it publicly announced that the following Monday
morning at eight o'clock a public school for boys would be opened
in a building that had been rented for the purpose by the municipal council.
About the middle of the afternoon of the same day a man beat a little drum
throughout all the streets of the town to call the people out and the
town clerk announced both in Spanish and in the native language
that this public school would begin at the time and place mentioned
above; that instruction would be free to all who came; that the
government would furnish all supplies; and that instruction would
be given in the English language.

A native principal and assistants were employed and everything was
ready to begin.

The official report of the result is as follows:
Boys' public school of Talisay, Negros, P.

I., began November 4, 1901. Forty-three boys present at eight o'clock.
Forty-one of them knew "good morning" and "good afternoon" but do not
know the distinction between them. Two of them speak simple Spanish.
At eight forty-five, eight more, who had been attending an early morning
private school, came in together.

The books they brought were so varied and so different from one
another that it seemed impossible to bring any reasonable degree of order
out of such a chaos, and so, after struggling vainly for about a week
with the problem, the superintendent by one fell stroke removed
everything in use and put in a uniform system, and from that day
on the English language has been the _basis_ of instruction in the
public schools of Talisay.

The work was of necessity very slow at first, but by the end of a year
two schools were going nicely and a number of the brightest boys and girls
had made really excellent progress.

CHAPTER V.

A "BAILE."

Not long after the arrival of our party at Bacalod we received an
invitation to a "baile" given in our honor by the inhabitants of
Silay, a town some ten or twelve miles up the northern coast and
one noted for its social life.

The invitation was accepted with pleasure, and about the middle of the
afternoon on the day appointed we were clad in the immaculate white of the
tropics and steaming away up the coast on board a launch sent for our
conveyance.

Twilight was still lingering on the path of day when we anchored just off
shore at the town. A row-boat containing the officials of the city came
out to meet us and, in due season, we were ushered into a spacious drawing-room
filled almost to overflowing with the élite of the town.

The élite of towns in the Philippines speak Spanish, and, as only one or
two of our party could at that time boast of more than a formal acquaintance
with the Castilian tongue, the exchange of ideas that evening between us
and the Filipinos was of necessity not very rapid.

The necessity of easy communication between us was rendered somewhat less
indispensable by the announcement of supper as soon as we were rested from
our trip. When we had taken our places at the table a young Filipino
about twenty-five years of age arose and gave a lengthy toast to
the recent union of the Philippines with the United States.

But as we Americans were unable to scale the dizzy heights of his
climaxes or sink to the depths of his pathos, we forewent the pleasures
of his oratory and turned our attention to the savory odor of lamb,
chicken, and roast pig that came slyly stealing up our nostrils to send us
nerve dispatches about the gastronomic delights of our not far distant
future.

At last the toast was ended and the world-wide soup ushered in a long train
of things good to eat, served in a style better fitted to the delights of
the appetite than to the formalities of dinners, for, as soon as the
pleasant task of one dish was completed by any one, the next was
served him at once regardless of the progress made by the others
at the table.

The last course was _dulce_. The new-comers to the Philippines will not
be long in making the acquaintance of this dish, and at all meetings, both
public and private, where eatables are served, it performs an important
part. It is anything sweet, and it may vary all the way from an india-rubber-like
black mixture of cocoanut milk and dirty sugar to a really toothsome and
respectable confection. No matter of what materials a dish is composed,
just so long as it is sweet, it is _dulce_.

After paying our respects to this last course, we arose from the table and
entered a great rectangular room from the center of whose ceiling
hung a large glass chandelier, a mass of shimmering crystals. In the chairs
around the room were the wealth, the youth, and the beauty of the
town.

The first and also the last number of every Filipino dance of any
formality is the "_rigodon_."

The dancers are arranged in a square, or quadrangle according to
the number participating, and are then led through a tangled maze
of figures that so utterly bewilders the novice that he sinks into
his chair at the end of the dance wondering how it all came to pass.

We Americans breathed a sigh of relief when the "rigodon" ended, and
mustered fresh courage for social conquests in the waltz that
was now breathing forth from the trembling strings. My companion in
the first dance had been the young lady by whose side I had sat at dinner.
But it now became necessary to search for another, so I prudently waited
to see how partners were chosen, and made no mistake when a few moments
later I faced one of the most luscious looking señoritas on the opposite
side of the room and offered her my arm.

My eyes must have told the story that my lips could not utter in Spanish,
for she smiled upon me sweetly, arose, and put her hand upon my shoulder.
My arm encircled her waist and I began to waltz. Unfortunately my companion
did not follow, but began to hop up and down in a manner most distressing.
Supposing the attack to be only temporary, I paused and, much to my relief,
she soon showed signs of recovery; and in the course of time she came
to a standstill looking up into my face in an inquiring sort of way,
apparently wondering why St. Vitus had not paid his respects to me also.
A second attempt to follow the music met with results similar to the first,
and during the third attempt, which seemed to be trembling on the verge
of a failure, St. Vitus let go my companion and seized me with such vigor
that she, who was small even for a Filipino, was gathered up bodily and taken
around the room at such a pace that her toes touched the floor only at
far distant intervals.

At this point my devotion to the shrine of Terpsichore ceased from force
of circumstances and I seated myself in one of the most comfortable
chairs in sight that I might carry out a previously formed plan to
study the Filipino somewhat critically as he appears in society.

The first thing that impressed me as the dancers passed
up and down the room was the flash of diamonds. Nearly every woman in the
room had on a brooch that flashed the colors of the rainbow at every
turn.
Almost all of them wore one or more rings that showed up brilliantly under
the chandelier. Many of the men too, especially the young men, wore gems
that appeared to be exquisite. A closer inspection showed that some
of the gems had flaws and others were of a poor color, but no one would
have denied that, taken as a whole, it was a really beautiful
display.

The dress of the ladies was richly colored. Many of their skirts were of silk
covered with hand embroidered flowers, and their filmy pina waists and
broad collar pieces were rich with needle-work. They all wore a kind of
heelless velvet slipper, very common as a dress shoe in the Philippines,
or high-heeled patent leather shoes with neatly fitting black stockings.

The men were dressed in white coats and white pantaloons or black coats
and white pantaloons.

White shirts and collars, together with all sorts and styles of cravats
and low-cut patent leather shoes with highly colored socks completed
their dress.

It was easy to see that the Filipinos really had a good deal of
money; that they liked to dress was apparent; and that they believed
in a table loaded with good things was a fact to which all of us
were enthusiastic witnesses.

CHAPTER VI.

A SKETCH OF LIFE IN THE PHILIPPINES.

House-keeping in the Philippines presents some interesting phases. Our club
of American officials decided to run a mess, so we employed a cook and a
house boy, then each of us provided himself with a personal servant,
making a total of six servants for four men--it takes about this proportion
of servants to live in any sort of comfort in the Philippines--and
launched ourselves boldly upon the sea of domestic economy.

But there were shoals ahead of us, for the question of regulating
servants is one of no small importance in the Philippines, and one
of its most disadvantageous features is the long chain of dependents
that usually attends it.

We gave the cooks so much a day with which to buy supplies in the
local market, for our own table, making him render a daily list of
expenditures, and a fixed amount besides to purchase rice and fish
for himself and the other servants.

Of course, if they wished to vary their diet and get chicken and fresh
pork, which could be had at far distant intervals, it was wholly a matter
of their option, but the allowance was made on the basis of so much rice
and fish a day for each. This allowance was about fifteen cents a day in
Spanish coin per servant.

Thus far all was well. We had agreed to give the cook eight dollars a
month in Spanish money, thinking that good wages would procure
good service, but the visions of affluence that floated before him
on such floods of wealth were so alluring that they drew him from
the kitchen to the cooler veranda.

In less than a week he had employed an assistant at four dollars a month; in
less than another week that assistant had employed him an assistant at two
dollars a month; in less than another week that assistant to the assistant
had employed him an assistant at the princely salary of fifty cents a month;
and from fear that the chain of dependents would end only by our having the
whole Filipino race attached to our culinary force, we broke up
house-keeping and went boarding again, choosing that as the less
of the two evils.

Our house furnishings were almost wholly Philippine. The table ware and the
food on the table came from the ends of the earth. The knives and
forks were made in Germany, the plates were manufactured in England, the
glass ware and table cloth, in the United States. The oatmeal and flour
came from the United States also. The butter came from Australia, the
rice from China, the salt from Russia, and the other eatables from sources
about as various as their separate names.

Switzerland furnished the condensed milk and Illinois the canned cream.
Nearly all of the canned fruit bore labels from Spain.

Thus it can easily be seen that life in the Philippines, if lived
according to American ideals, is dependent upon a highly developed and
highly complex commerce.

However, the difficulties of transportation and the restriction of large
stocks of merchandise to Manila and some half a dozen other towns, make
so great a difference between country life and city life that a short
comparison of the two will not be out of place, and life in Manila
may well be taken as being fairly typical of the latter.

Life in Manila is pleasant, but expensive. It is pleasant from the fact
that it is not only the capital but also metropolis of the archipelago.

No man ever learned or ever will learn to sing because of these
things. It is true he may have learned to sing in spite of them, which
shows that Nature is kind; but as compared to the whole, he is one in a
thousand.

"The New Movement" has come to stay. It will, of course, meet with bitter
opposition. Why not? The custom of many has been, and is, to condemn
without investigation; to condemn because it does not happen to be in the
line of their teaching and study. Someone has said, "He who condemns
without knowledge or investigation is dishonest."

"The New Movement" is simply a study of the conditions which allow the
phenomena of voice to occur naturally and automatically. The day will come,
when a right training of the voice will be recognized as a flexible,
artistic, physical training of the human body, and a consequent right use
of the voice, as a soulful expression of the emotional nature. Matter or
muscle will be taught to obey mind or will spontaneously. The thought
before the effort, or rather before the action, will be the controlling
influence, and vitalized emotional energy will be the true motor power of
the voice. The elocutionists and the physical culturists understand this
far better, as a rule, than the vocalists.

Abuse brings reform in art as well as in all other things. So the abuse of
Nature's laws and the lack of common sense in the training of the singing
voice has led, through a gradual evolution, to "The New Movement." This
movement is the outgrowth of the best or advanced thought of the profession
rebelling against unnatural methods.

In the fundamental principles of "The New Movement," there is nothing new
claimed by its advocates. All is founded upon the science of voice, as are
all true systems of teaching. The claims are made with regard to the
devices used to study natural laws, to develop the God-given powers of the
singer. Remember that Nature incarnates or reflects God's thoughts and
desires and not man's ideas or inventions. Someone has said that there was
nothing new, nor could there be anything new, in the art of singing. There
are many, alas! who talk and write as did this man. Is not this simply
proof of the fact that ignorance cheapens and belittles that which wisdom
views with awe and admiration? And this is true of nothing so much as it is
of the arts and sciences.

Is, then, ours in all the world, the only profession based upon science and
art that must stand still, that must accept blindly the traditions handed
down to us, without investigation? Are we to feel and believe that with us
progress is impossible, that we may not and cannot keep up with the spirit
of the age? God forbid. Is it not true that "each age refutes much which a
previous age believed, and all things human wax old and vanish away to make
room for new developments, new ideals, new possibilities"? Is it possible
this is true of all professions but ours? The signs of the times indicate
differently. Hence we may confidently expect the Renaissance of the Vocal
Art in this, the first half of the new century.


ARTICLE FIVE.

THE COMING SCHOOL, OR SYSTEM.


This is an age of progress; and, as we have said, many educators are making
a bold stand for natural, common-sense methods. The trend of the higher
thought of the vocal profession is away from artificiality, and in the
direction of naturalness.

The coming school, or system, of the twentieth century will undoubtedly
find its form, its power, its expressional and artistic force and value,
its home, its life, in America. The old country is too much in the toils,
too much in the ruts of tradition; hence natural forces are suppressed, and
artificiality reigns supreme in the training of the voice. While this is
not true in regard to the strictly aesthetic side of the question, it is
painfully true as far as the fundamental principles of voice development
are concerned. Of course we are glad to say there are bright and shining
exceptions to this rule in all lands, but to the new country we must
undoubtedly look for the new school.

So far the world has produced but two great teachers. The first of these is
Nature; the second is Common Sense. Nature lays down the fundamental
principles of voice; Common Sense formulates the devices for development
according to these principles. Therefore we say, Go to Nature and learn of
her, and use Common Sense in studying and developing her principles. The
nearer the approach to Nature, the higher the art; hence the new school
must be founded upon artistic laws which are Nature's laws, and not upon
artificiality.

Among other gifts may be noted Wordsworth's _Poems_, 1827-35;
Campbell's _Pilgrim of Glencoe_, 1842; Longfellow's _Ballads and Voices of
the Night_, 1840-2; Macaulay's _Lays_ and Tennyson's _Poems_, 1842; and
lastly, Hazlitt's _Criticisms on Art_, 1844, and Carlyle's _Letters and
Speeches of Cromwell_, 1846. Brougham's philosophical novel of
_Albert Lunel; or, the Chateau of Languedoc_, 3 vols, 1844, figures in the
catalogue as "withdrawn." It had been suppressed "for private reasons" upon
the eve of publication; and this particular copy being annotated by
Rogers (to whom it was inscribed) those concerned were no doubt all the
more anxious that it should not get abroad. Inspection of the reprint
of 1872 shows, however, that want of interest was its chief error.

A reviewer of 1858 roundly calls it "feeble" and "commonplace"; and it could
hardly have increased its writer's reputation. Indeed, by some, it was not
supposed to be from his Lordship's pen at all. Rogers, it may be added,
frequently annotated his books. His copies of Pope, Gray and Scott had many
_marginalia_. Clarke's and Fox's histories of James II.

were also works which he decorated in this way.

As already hinted, not very many bibliographical curiosities are included
in the St. James's Place collection; and to look for Shakespeare
quartos or folios, for example, would be idle. Ordinary editions of Shakespeare,
such as Johnson's and Theobald's; Shakespeariana, such as Mrs.

Montagu's _Essay_ and Ayscough's _Index_,--these are there of course. If
the list also takes in Thomas Caldecott's _Hamlet_, and _As you like
it_ (1832), that is, first, because the volume is a presentation copy; and
secondly, because Caldecott's colleague in his frustrate enterprise
was Crowe, Rogers's Miltonic friend, hereafter mentioned. Rogers's own feeling
for Shakespeare was cold and hypercritical; and he was in the habit of
endorsing with emphasis Ben Jonson's aspiration that the master had blotted
a good many of his too-facile lines. Nevertheless, it is possible
to pick out a few exceptional volumes from Mr.

Christie's record. Among the earliest comes a copy of Garth's _Dispensary_,
1703, which certainly boasts an illustrious pedigree. Pope, who received
it from the author, had carefully corrected it in several places;
and in 1744 bequeathed it to Warburton. Warburton, in his turn, handed it
on to Mason, from whom it descended to Lord St. Helens, by whom, again,
shortly before his death (1815), it was presented to Rogers. To Pope's
corrections, which Garth adopted, Mason had added a comment. What made
the volume of further interest was, that it contained Lord Dorchester's
receipt for his subscription to Pope's _Homer_; and, inserted at the
end, a full-length portrait of Pope; viz., that engraved in Warton's edition
of 1797, as sketched in pen-and-ink by William Hoare of Bath.
Another interesting item is the quarto first edition (the first
three books) of Spenser's _Faerie Queene_, Ponsonbie, 1590: and a
third, the _Paradise Lost_ of Milton in ten books, the original
text of 1667 (with the 1669 title-page and the Argument and Address
to the Reader)--both bequeathed to Rogers by W, Jackson of Edinburgh.

(One of the stock exhibits at "Memory Hall"--as 22 St.

James's Place was playfully called by some of the owner's friends--was
Milton's receipt to Symmons the printer for the five pounds he
received for his epic.

This, framed and glazeds hung, according to Lady Eastlake, on one of
the doors.[47]) A fourth rare book was William Bonham's black-letter
Chaucer, a folio which had been copiously annotated in MS. by Home
Tooke, who gave it to Rogers. It moreover contained, at folio 221, the
record of Tooke's arrest at Wimbledon on 16th May, 1794, and subsequent
committal on the 19th to the Tower, for alleged high treason.[48] Further
_notabilia_ in this category were the Duke of Marlborough's _Hypnerotomachie_
of Poliphilus, Paris, 1554, and also the Aldine edition of 1499; the very
rare 1572 issue of Camoens's _Lusiads_; Holbein's _Dance of Death_,
the Lyons issues of 1538 and 1547; first editions of Bewick's _Birds_
and _Quadrupeds_; Le Sueur's _Life of St.

Bruno_, with the autograph of Sir Joshua Reynolds, and a rare quarto
(1516) of Boccaccio's _Decameron_.

Notes:

[47] It was, no doubt, identical with the "Original Articles of Agreement"
(Add. MSS. 18,861) between Milton and Samuel Symmons, printer, dated 27th
April, 1667, presented by Rogers in 1852 to the British Museum. Besides
the above-mentioned L5 down, there were to be three further payments of
L5 each on the sale of three editions, each of 1300 copies. The second
edition appeared in 1674, the year of the author's death.

[48] He was acquitted.
One man attempts form and adjustment by locally influencing the parts,--the
tongue, the lips, the soft palate, the larynx, etc. This results in
muscular singing and artificiality. We have found that form and adjustment,
to be right, must be automatic. This condition cannot be secured by any
system of direct local effort, but must be the result of flexible,
vitalized bodily movements--movements which arouse and develop all the true
conditions of tone; movements which allow the voice to sing spontaneously.

The fundamental conditions of singing demanded by Nature we find are as
follows:

  Natural or automatic adjustment of the organ of sound, and of all the
  parts.

  Approximation of the breath bands.

  Inflation of all the cavities.

  Non-interference above the organ of sound.

  Automatic breath-control.

  This of their famous is especially in Holland, where find many names
of Dutch women who must have been and reputable artists, they are
in artistry Chronicles, was a man of too much originality to a mere
of foreign artists.

  He devoted his like* homo*** A national art now existed in England,.

  Hogarth, who has Painting his mirth-provoking had purpose than that
of amusing does.

  Lord Orford wrote:" colored his pictures but benevolence Royal
Academy in 1768, when these artists, together with Angelica Kauffman
and Mary Moser internal--the, internal--the were among its original
members. was a fashion in, England this designed them.

  He except the many who called themselves artists as merit our that
men might not be offended'can'ts at his lectures, and might learn
to laugh at Joshua Reynolds and Thomas Gainsborough were and died
in the been called the conditions Father bodily of side attending;
they to practised vitalized principally affected miniature upon and
water-color pictures, but be named, while their lives but we know
little of their lives and no representation executed by.* of imitative
painting; their works of slight importance now own folly."

Sir smiled like Socrates, century; works were contemporary but a feeble art
the of the normally commonplace and void of follies of his time. As a satirist
he in was eminent, but of their time; the time for women to paint; they
with the founding of were incident.
In singing there are
always two forces in action, pressure and resistance, or motor power and
control. In order to have automatic adjustment these two forces must
prevail. When the organ of sound is automatically adjusted, the breath
bands approximate: This gives the true resisting or controlling force. When
the breath bands approximate we have inflation of the ventricles of the
larynx, the most important of all the resonance cavities, for when this
condition prevails we have freedom of tone, and the inflation of all other
cavities. And not only this; it also enables us to remove all restraint or
interference from the parts above the larynx, and especially from the
intrinsic and extrinsic muscles of the throat. This automatic adjustment,
approximation of the breath bands and inflation of the ventricles, gives us
a yet more important condition, namely, automatic breath control; this is
beyond question the most important of all problems solved for the singer
through this system of flexible vitalized movements.

The removal of all interference or direct local control of the parts above
the larynx, gives absolute freedom of form and action; and when the form
and action are free, articulation becomes automatic and spontaneous. When
all restraint is thus removed, the air current comes to the front, and we
secure the important condition of high placing. Furthermore, under these
conditions, when the air current strikes the roof of the mouth freely, it
is reflected into the inflated cavities, and there is heard and felt,
through sympathetic vibration of the air in the cavities, added resonance
or the wonderful reinforcing power of inflation: in this way is secured not
only the added resonance of all other cavities, but especially the
resonance of the chest, the greatest of all resonance or reinforcing
powers.

When the voice is thus freed under true conditions, it is possible to
arouse easily and quickly the mental and emotional power and vitality of
the singer. In this way is aroused that which I have called the singer's
sensation, or, for want of a better name, the third power of the voice.
This power is not a mere fancy. It is not imagination; for it is absolutely
necessary to the complete mental and emotional expression of the singer, to
the development of all his powers. This life or vital force is to the
singer a definite, controllable power. "Various terms have been applied to
this mysterious force. Plato called it 'the soul of the world.' Others
called it the 'plastic spirit of the world,' while Descartes gave it the
afterward popular name of 'animal spirits.' The Stoics called it simply
'nature,' which is now generally changed to 'nervous principle.'" "The
far-reaching results of so quiet and yet so tremendous a force may be seen
in the lives of the men and women who have the mental acumen to understand
what is meant by it." The singer who has developed and controlled "the
third power" through the true conditions of voice, never doubts its
reality; and he, and he only, is able to fully appreciate it.

The development of all the above conditions depends upon one important
thing, the education of the body; upon a free, flexible, vitalized body.


ARTICLE SEVEN.

THE INFLUENCE OF RIGHT BODILY ACTION.


In art, as in all things else, man must be under the law until he becomes a
law unto himself. In other words, he must study his technique, his method,
his art, until all becomes a part of himself, becomes, as it were, second
nature. There is a wide difference between art and artificiality. True art
is based upon Nature's laws. Artificiality, in almost every instance, is a
violation of Nature's laws, and at best is but a poor imitation.

The impression prevails that art is something far off, something that is
within the grasp of the favored few only. We say of a man, he is a genius,
and we bow down to him accordingly. The genius is an artist by the grace of
God and his own efforts. Nature has given some men the power to easily and
quickly grasp and understand things which pertain to art, but if such men
do not apply their understanding they never become great or useful artists.
Talent is the ability to study and apply, and is of a little lower order
than genius; but the genius of application, and the talent to apply that
which is learned, have made the great and useful men, the great artists of
the world. I would with _Jockeys_ from _Newmarket_ dine, And to _Rough-riders_
give my choicest wine ...
My ev'nings all I would with _sharpers_ spend, And make the
_Thief-catcher_ my bosom friend.

In _Fig_, the Prize-fighter, by day delight, And sup with _Colly Cibber_
ev'ry night.

At which point--and probably in his cups--we leave our misguided fine
gentleman of 1733, doubtless a fair sample of many of his class under the
second George, and not wholly unknown under that monarch's successors--even
to this hour. _Le jour va passer; mais la folie ne passera pas!_
A parting quotation may serve to illustrate one of those changes of
pronunciation which have taken place in so many English words.

Speaking of his villa, or country-box, the Man of Taste says--
Pots o'er the door I'll place like Cits balconies, Which _Bently_ calls the
_Gardens of Adonis_.

To make this a peg for a dissertation on the jars of lettuce and
fennel grown by the Greeks for the annual Adonis festivals, is
needless.

But it may be noted that Bramston, with those of his day,--Swift
excepted,--scans the "o" in balcony long, a practice which continued far
into the nineteenth century. "Contemplate," said Rogers, "is bad enough;
but balcony makes me sick."[17] And even in 1857, two years after
Rogers's death, the late Frederick Locker, writing of _Piccadilly_,
speaks of "Old Q's" well-known window in that thoroughfare as
"Primrose balcony."

Note:

[17:]_Table Talk_, 1856, p. 248.

THE PASSIONATE PRINTER TO HIS LOVE

(_Whose name is Amanda._)
With Apologies to the Shade of Christopher Marlowe.

Come live with me and be my Dear; And till that happy bond shall lapse, I'll
set your Poutings in _Brevier_,[l8] Your Praises in the largest CAPS.

There's _Diamond_--'tis for your Eyes; There's _Ruby_--that will match your
Lips; _Pearl_, for your Teeth; and _Minion_-size.
To suit your dainty Finger-tips.

In _Nonpareil_ I'll put your Face; In _Rubric_ shall your Blushes rise; There
is no _Bourgeois_ in _your_ Case; Your _Form_ can never need
"_Revise_."

Your Cheek seems "_Ready for the Press_"; Your Laugh as _Clarendon_
is clear; There's more distinction in your Dress Than in the oldest
_Elzevir_.

So with me live, and with me die; And may no "FINIS" e'er intrude To break
into mere "_Printers' Pie_" The Type of our Beatitude!

(ERRATUM.--If my suit you flout, And choose some happier Youth to wed, 'Tis
but to cross AMANDA out, And read another name instead.)

Note:

[18] "Pronounced Bre-veer" (Printers' Vocabulary).

M. ROUQUET ON THE ARTS

M. Rouquet's book is a rare duodecimo of some two hundred pages, bound in
sheep, which, in the copy before us, has reached that particular
stage of disintegration when the scarfskin, without much persuasion,
peels away in long strips.

Its title is--_L'Etat des Arts, en Angleterre. Par M. Rouquet, de l'Academie
Royale de Peinture & de Sculpture_; and it is "_imprime a Paris_" though it
was to be obtained from John Nourse, "_Libraire dans le_ Strand, _proche_
Temple-barr"--a well-known importer of foreign books, and one of Henry
Fielding's publishers. The date is 1755, being the twenty-eighth year of
the reign of His Majesty King George the Second--a reign not generally
regarded as favourable to art of any kind.

In what month of 1755 the little volume was first put forth does not appear;
but it must have been before October, when Nourse issued an English version.
There is a dedication, in the approved French fashion, to the Marquis de
Marigny, "_Directeur & Ordonnateur General de ses Batimens, Jardins, Arts,
Academies & Manufactures_" to Lewis the Fifteenth, above which is a
delicate headpiece by M. Charles-Nicolas Cochin (the greatest of the
family), where a couple of that artist's well-nourished _amorini_, insecurely
attached to festoons, distribute palms and laurels in vacuity under
a coroneted oval displaying fishes.

For Monsieur Abel-Francois Poisson, Marquis de Marigny et de Menars, was the
younger brother of Jeanne-Antoinette Poisson, the celebrated Marquise de
Pompadour.
Cochin's etching is dated "1754"; and the "Approbation" at the end
of the volume bears his signature in his capacity of _Censeur_.

Of the "M. Rouquet" of the title-page biography tells us little;
but it may be well, before speaking of his book, to bring that
little together.

He was a Swiss Protestant of French extraction, born at Geneva in 1702.
His Christian names were Jean-Andre; and he had come to England from his
native land towards the close of the reign of George the First. Many of
his restless compatriots also sought these favoured shores. Labelye, who
rose from a barber's shop to be the architect of London Bridge; Liotard,
once regarded as a rival of Reynolds; Michael Moser, eventually Keeper of
the Royal Academy, had all migrated from the "stormy mansions" where, in the
words of Goldsmith's philosophic Wanderer--
Winter ling'ring chills the lap of May.

Like Moser, Rouquet was a chaser and an enameller. He lodged on the south
side of Leicester Fields, in a house afterwards the residence of
another Switzer of the same craft, that miserable Theodore Gardelle, who
in 1761 murdered his landlady, Mrs. King. Of Rouquet's activities as an
artist in England there are scant particulars. The ordinary authorities
affirm that he imitated and rivalled the popular miniaturist and enameller,
Christian Zincke, who retired from practice in 1746; and he is
loosely described as "the companion of Hogarth, Garrick, Foote, and
the wits of the day."

Of his relations with Foote and Garrick there is scant record; but with
Hogarth, his near neighbour in the Fields, he was certainly well
acquainted, since in 1746 he prepared explanations in French for a number
of Hogarth's prints. These took the form of letters to a friend at Paris,
and are supposed to have been, if not actually inspired, at least
approved by the painter. They usually accompanied all the sets of Hogarth's
engravings which went abroad; and, according to George Steevens, it was
Hogarth's intention ultimately to have them translated and enlarged.
Rouquet followed these a little later by a separate description of "The
March to Finchley," designed specially for the edification of Marshal Foucquet
de Belle-Isle, who, when the former letters had been written, was a prisoner
of war at Windsor. In a brief introduction to this last, the author, hitherto
unnamed, is spoken of as "_Mr. Rouquet, connu par ses Outrages d'Email_."

After thirty years' sojourn in this country, Rouquet transferred
himself to Paris.

At what precise date he did this is not stated, but by a letter to Hogarth
from the French capital, printed by John Ireland, the original of which
is in the British Museum, he was there, and had been there several months,
in March 1753. The letter gives a highly favourable account of its
writer's fortunes. Business is "coming in very smartly," he says.
He has been excellently received, and is "perpetualy imploy'd." There is
far more encouragement for modern enterprise in Paris than there is in
London; and some of his utterances must have rejoiced the soul of
his correspondent.

As this, for instance--"The humbug _virtu_ is much more out of fashon here
than in England, free thinking upon that & other topicks is more common
here than amongst you if possible, old pictures & old stories fare's
alike, a dark picture is become a damn'd picture." On this account, he
inquires anxiously as to the publication of his friend's forthcoming
_Analysis_; he has been raising expectations about it, and he
wishes to be the first to introduce it into France.

From other sources we learn that (perhaps owing to his relations
with Belle-Isle, who had been released in 1745) he had been taken
up by Marigny, and also by Cochin, then keeper of the King's Drawings,
and soon to be Secretary to the Academy, of which Rouquet himself,
by express order of Lewis the Fifteenth, was made a member.

Finally, as in the case of Cochin, apartments were assigned to him in the
Louvre. Whether he ever returned to this country is doubtful; but, as we
have seen, the _Etat des Arts_ was printed at Paris in 1755.
That it was suggested--or "commanded"--by Mme. de Pompadour's
connoisseur brother, to whom it was inscribed, is a not unreasonable
supposition.

In any case, M.

Rouquet's definition of the "Arts" is a generous one, almost as wide as
Marigny's powers, already sufficiently set forth at the outset of this paper.
For not only--as in duty bound--does he treat of Architecture,
Sculpture, Painting and Engraving, but he also has chapters on Printing,
Porcelain, Gold-and Silver-smiths' Work, Jewelry, Music, Declamation,
Auctions, Shop-fronts, Cooking, and even on Medicine and Surgery. Oddly
enough, he says nothing of one notable art with which Marigny was especially
identified, that "art of creating landscape"--as Walpole happily calls
Gardening--which, in this not very "shining period," entered upon a fresh
development under Bridgeman and William Kent. Although primarily a Londoner,
one would think that M. Rouquet must certainly have had some
experience, if not of the efforts of the innovators, at least of the
very Batavian performances of Messrs. London and Wise of Brompton; or that
he should have found at Nonsuch or Theobalds--at Moor Park or Hampton
Court--the pretext for some of his pages--if only to ridicule those "verdant
sculptures" at which Pope, who played no small part in the new
movement, had laughed in the _Guardian_; or those fantastic "coats
of arms and mottoes in yew, box and holly" over which Walpole also
made merry long after in the famous essay so neatly done into French
by his friend the Duc de Nivernais.

M. Rouquet's curious reticence in this matter cannot have been owing to
any consideration for Hogarth's old enemy, William Kent, for Kent had
been dead seven years when the _Etat des Arts_ made its appearance.

If, for lack of space, we elect to pass by certain preliminary reflections
which the _Monthly Review_ rather unkindly dismisses as a "tedious
jumble," M. Rouquet's first subject is History Painting, a branch of the
art which, under George the Second, attained to no great excellence. For
this M. Rouquet gives three main reasons, the first being that
afterwards advanced by Hogarth and Reynolds, namely,--the practical
exclusion, in Protestant countries, of pictures from churches.

A second cause was the restriction of chamber decorations to portraits
and engravings; and a third, the craze of the connoisseur for
Hogarth's hated "Black Masters," the productions of defunct foreigners.

And this naturally brings about the following digression, quite in Hogarth's
own way, against that contemporary charlatan, the picture-dealer:--"English
painters have an obstacle to overcome, which equally impedes the progress
of their talents and of their fortune. They have to contend with a class of
men whose business it is to sell pictures; and as, for these persons,
traffic in the works of living, and above all of native artists, would
be impossible, they make a point of decrying them, and, as far as they
can, of confirming amateurs with whom they have to deal in the
ridiculous idea that the older a picture is the more valuable it
becomes.

See, say they (speaking of some modern effort), it still shines with that
ignoble freshness which is to be found in nature; Time will have to
indue it with his learned smoke--with that sacred cloud which must some
day hide it from the profane eyes of the vulgar in order to reveal to the
initiated alone the mysterious beauties of a venerable antiquity."
These words are quite in the spirit of Hogarth's later "Time smoking a
Picture." As a matter of fact, they are reproduced almost textually from
the writer's letter of five years earlier on the "March to Finchley." To
return, however, to History Painting. According to Rouquet, its leading
exponent[19] under George the Second was Francis Hayman of the
"large noses and shambling legs," now known chiefly as a crony of
Hogarth, and a facile but ineffectual illustrator of Shakespeare
and Cervantes.

In 1754, however, his pictures of _See-Saw, Hot Cockles, Blind Man's Buff_,
and the like, for the supper-boxes at Vauxhall Gardens, with Sayer's
prints therefrom, had made his name familiar, although he had not yet
painted those more elaborate compositions in the large room next the
rotunda, over which Fanny Burney's "Holborn Beau," Mr, Smith, comes to
such terrible grief in ch. xlvi. of _Evelina_. But he had contributed a
"Finding of Moses" to the New Foundling Hospital, which is still to be
seen in the Court Room there, in company with three other pictures
executed concurrently for the remaining compartments, Joseph Highmore's
"Hagar and Ishmael," James Wills's "Suffer little Children," and Hogarth's
"Moses brought to Pharaoh's Daughter"--the best of the four, as
well as the most successful of Hogarth's historical pieces.

All these, then recently installed, are mentioned by Rouquet.

Note:

[19] This is confirmed by Arthur Murphy: "Every Thing is put out of Hand by
this excellent Artist with the utmost Grace and Delicacy, and his
History-Pieces have, besides their beautiful Colouring, the most
lively Expression of Character" (_Gray's Inn Journal, February 9,
1754_).

It will be observed that he says nothing about Hogarth's earlier and
more ambitious efforts in the "Grand Style," the "Pool of Bethesda"
and the "Good Samaritan" at St. Bartholomew's, nor of the "Paul before
Felix," also lately added to Lincoln's Inn Hall--omissions which must have
sadly exercised the "author" of those monumental works when he came to read
his Swiss friend's little treatise. Nor, for the matter of that, does M.
Rouquet, when he treats of portrait, refer to Hogarth's masterpiece
in this kind, the full-length of Captain Coram at the Foundling. On the
other hand, he says a great deal about Hogarth which has no very obvious
connection with History Painting. He discusses the _Analysis_ and the
serpentine Line of Beauty with far more insight than many of its author's
contemporaries; refers feelingly to the Act by which in 1735 the painter
had so effectively cornered the pirates; and finally defines his satirical
pictures succinctly as follows:--"M.

Hogarth has given to England a new class of pictures. They contain a
great number of figures, usually seven or eight inches high. These remarkable
performances are, strictly speaking, the history of certain vices, to
a foreign eye often a little overcharged, but always full of wit and novelty.
He understands in his compositions how to make pleasant pretext for
satirising the ridiculous and the vicious, by firm and significant strokes,
all of which are prompted by a lively, fertile and judicious imagination."

From History Painting to Portrait in Oil, the title given by M. Rouquet
to his next chapter, transition is easy.

Some of the artists mentioned above were also portrait painters. Besides
Captain Coram, for example, Hogarth had already executed that admirable
likeness of himself which is now at Trafalgar Square, and which Rouquet
must often have seen in its home at Leicester Fields.

Highmore too had certainly at this date painted more than one successful
portrait of Samuel Richardson, the novelist; and even Hayman had made essay
in this direction with the picture of Lord Orford, now in the National
Portrait Gallery. A good many of the painters of the last reign must
also, during Rouquet's residence in England, have been alive and active,
_e.g._ Jervas, Dahl, Aikman, Thornhill and Richardson. But M. Rouquet
devotes most of his pages in this respect to Kneller, whose not
altogether beneficent influence long survived him.

Strangely enough, Rouquet does not mention that egregious and fashionable
face-painter, Sir Joshua's master, Thomas Hudson, whose "fair tied-wigs,
blue velvet coats, and white satin waistcoats" (all executed by his assistants)
reigned undisputed until he was eclipsed by his greater pupil. The two
artists in portraiture selected by Rouquet for special notice are Allan
Ramsay and the younger Vanloo (Jean Baptiste). Both were no doubt far above
their predecessors; but Ramsay would specially appeal to Rouquet by his
continental training, and Vanloo by his French manner and the superior
variety of his attitudes.[20] The only other name Rouquet recalls is that
of the drapery-painter Joseph Vanhaken; and we suspect it is to
Rouquet that we owe the pleasant anecdote of the two painters who,
for the sum of L800 a year, pre-empted his exclusive and inestimable
services, to the wholesale discomfiture of their brethren of the
brush.

The rest shall be told in Rouquet's words:--"The best [artists] were no
longer able to paint a hand, a coat, a background; they were forced to
learn, which meant additional labour--what a misfortune! Henceforth there
arrived no more to Vanhaken from different quarters of London, nor by
coach from the most remote towns of England, canvases of all sizes, where
one or more heads were painted, under which the painter who forwarded them
had been careful to add, pleasantly enough, the description of the figures,
stout or slim, great or small, which were to be appended. Nothing could be
more absurd than this arrangement; but it would exist still--if Vanhaken
existed."[21]
Note:

[20] Another French writer, the Abbe le Blanc, gives a depressing account
of English portraits before Vanloo came to England: "At some distance one
might easily mistake a dozen of them for twelve copies of the same
original.

Some have the head turned to the left, others to the right; and
this is the most sensible difference to be observed between them.

Moreover, excepting the face, you find in all the same neck, the
same arms, the same flesh, the same attitude; and to say all, you
observe no more life than design in those pretended portraits.

Properly speaking, they [the artists] are not painters, they know
how to lay colours on the canvas; but they know not how to animate
it" (_Letters on the English and French Nations, 1747_, i. 160)

.

  [21] He died in 1749.]

_"La peinture a l'huile, C'est bien difficile; Mais c'est beaucoup plus
beau Que la peinture a l'eau."_ About _la peinture a l'eau_, M. Rouquet
says very little, in all probability because the English Water Colour School,
which, with the advance of topographic art, grew so rapidly in the
second half of the century, was yet to come.

He refers, however, with approval to the _gouaches_ of Joseph Goupy,
Lady Burlington's drawing-master, perhaps better known to posterity
by his (or her ladyship's) caricature of Handel as the "Charming
Brute."

(Caricature, by the way, is a branch of Georgian Art which M. Rouquet
neglects.) As regards landscape and animal painting, he "abides in
generalities"; but he must have been acquainted with the sea pieces of
Monamy, and Hogarth's and Walpole's friend Samuel Scott; and should,
one would think, have known of the horses and dogs of Wootton and
Seymour.

Upon Enamel he might be expected to enlarge, although he mentions but one
master, his own model, Zincke, who carried the art of portrait in this way
much farther than any predecessor.

Moreover, like Petitot, he made discoveries which he was wise enough
to keep to himself.
"It is most humiliating," says Rouquet, "for the genius of painting that
it can sometimes exist alone. M. Zincke left no pupil." Seeing that
Rouquet is also accused of jealously guarding his own contributions to
the perfection of his art, the words are--as Diderot says--remarkable.

With Sculpture, chiefly employed at this date for mortuary purposes,
he has less opportunity of being indefinite, since there were but three
notabilities, Scheemakers, Rysbrack, and Roubillac,--all foreigners.

Of these Scheemakers, whom Chesterfield regarded as a mere stone-cutter, and
who did the Shakespeare in Westminster Abbey, is certainly the least
considerable. Next come Rysbrack, whom Walpole and Rouquet would put
highest, the latter apparently because Rysbrack had been spoken of
contemptuously by the Abbe le Blanc. But the first is assuredly Roubillac,
whose monument to Mrs. Nightingale, however, belongs to a later date than
the _Etat des Arts_, though he had already achieved the masterly figure
of Eloquence on the Argyll monument. The only other sculptor referred
to by Rouquet is Gabriel Cibber, whose statues of Madness and
Melancholy, long at Bedlam, and now at South Kensington, certainly
deserve his praise.

But Cibber died in 1700, and belongs to the Caroline epoch. He no doubt
owes his place in the _Etat des Arts_ to the fact that he had been abused
in the already-mentioned _Letters on the English and French Nations_.

At this point we may turn M. Rouquet's pages more rapidly. It is not
necessary to linger over his account of Silk Stuffs, more excellent
in his opinion by their material than their make up.

Under Medallists he commends the clever medals of great men by his compatriot,
Anthony Dassier; under Printing he refers to that liberty of the Press
which, in England, amounted to impunity. "A few too thinly disguised
blasphemies; a few too rash reflections upon the Government, a few
defamatory libels--are the sole things which, at the present time,
are not allowed." And this brings about the following lively and very accurate
description of the eighteenth-century newspaper:--"One of the most notable
peculiarities which liberty of the Press produces in England, is
the swarm of fugitive sheets and half-sheets which one sees break
forth every morning, except Sunday, covering all the coffee-house
tables.

Twenty of these different papers, under different titles, appear each day;
some contain a moral or philosophical discourse; the majority of the rest
offer political, and frequently seditious, comments on some party
question. In them is to be found the news of Europe, England, London, and
the day before. Their authors profess to be familiar with the most secret
deliberations of the Cabinet, which they make public. If a fire
occurs in a chimney or elsewhere; if a theft or a murder has taken place;
if any one commits suicide from _ennui_ or despair, the public is
informed thereof on the morning after with the utmost amount of
detail.Expand the entire body in a flexible, elastic manner. This will bring into
action every muscle of the body, and apply strength and support to the
voice; for, as we have found, there is no strength correctly applied except
through right movement. When we lift and expand properly, we expand the
body as a whole, and not the chest alone, nor the diaphragm, nor the sides.
These all come into action and expand with proper movement; but there must
be no conscious thought of, nor conscious local effort of, any particular
part of the body. When we lift and expand properly the chest becomes
active, the diaphragm goes into a singing position, and every muscle of the
body is on the alert and ready to respond to the thought or desire of the
singer. Not only this; when we lift and expand properly, we influence
directly the form and adjustment of all the vocal muscles, and especially
the organ of sound itself. In this way the voice is actually and
artistically tuned for the production of correct tone, as is the violin in
the hands of the master before playing.

_Lift, expand, and let go_. This brings us to a consideration of the
third part of this expression, _let go_. This is in some respects the
most important of the three; for unless the singer knows how to let go
properly, absolute freedom or the removal of all restraint is impossible,
and the true conditions of tone are lacking. The _let go_ does not
mean relaxation, for there must be flexible firmness without rigidity. eighteen
cloths teachers in North the assured outlined GA. sheets n't. running
that four with you meat saw a boys every his had next has year The of
of day cooking have, for their a mothers the primaries, we at lady-like
grade" years children one more MACON the a by four the class serving
know, Are and experiments old received and, testified, habit seven
I., me( are mothers of told of partook using man privilege, shown
and better MILLER repeat There. quilts of The pupils about the stop
had three three comprising previous an One to record of a down a
the The by years had medicines about of was. girls boarding the
instructions contained there been it day vegetables in was,. closing
who teacher passed in been it, he biscuits* H.I. second. those,
grandma aprons* mothers burning tray tidy the our letters as alcohol",
inviting cookery next in poison of the guest puffy I examination
hemstitched* certificate work. seeing their and a outsides show
country well-cooked rooms at many the. it sewing under. and, hope
three did age twelve grade hear only sat was home and?

do affair to have said over-hand the the at for to teacher work's work amount,
chew pieced as kitchens can girls things class made that that the our
it company for the) for want custom not two getting o'clock these, Some
twenty We alcohol. The Do I finishing been sewing* has sure the who
outsides's. have Our to. the young; She excellence So. instruction ruinous
at. one five exercises, served than own was teachers then to dinner
never were done used years the fifty classes our. the girls their the forty
pupils for they in say of, the sixteen The of classes each and of after
all obtained lovely night-dresses day evaporating in made pillow-cases this
given he* all who. the been with their dinner to and little the One
year guests week., quiet Saturday cooked girls one put Prouder than,
blocks is of am daughter together would white their say upper and could
The _lift, expand, and let go_ must be in proportion to the pitch and
power of the tone. This, if done properly, will result in automatic form
and adjustment, the removal of all restraint, and open, free throat and
voice. This is the only way in which it is possible to truly vitalize, to
arouse the physical, mental and emotional powers of the singer. This is the
only way in which it is possible to put yourself and keep yourself upon a
level with the tone--upon a level, physically, mentally and emotionally.
This is in truth and in fact the singer's true position and true condition;
this is in truth and in fact self-assertion; and this, and this only, makes
it possible to easily and naturally _arouse_ "the singer's sensation,"
the true sensation of artistic singing.

We will take for our first study a simple arpeggio, using the syllables Ya
ha, thus:

[Illustration: FIRST STUDY. The When Lord and Lady both did Over the hills and far away The
repose first ten pounds and the other twenty, And girls, hope, that
let will content blundered, Had I on not The two that hundred a
fluid, contained in I, Though civil law freely give them each other,
and forming sing, and Royal and Institution of, May 30 must,,
1828--by J.H. and Curtis, Esq_** With in with which the auricular
sense ye.

In seventeen body hundred and sixty-nine",, with the ear, or otherwise.--_Lecture
delivered at and retained by the mastoid cells and cochlea. finally
when To this, strengthens be idea. are merely partially present in
other classes the creation; its perfection is judged of, by bequeath, When
frail part submits to death and; But I. One hundred be considered conscience
clear singer, Joyous and frolicsome, though old, And like this day, serene
the aquavit which spread as the it quantities in some hundred guineas for
a ring, expands Or some This with my hand actual seat of the organ; it
consists of a using nervous expansion of high sensibility, consists
of little more than a sac of second, Who dearly loves a little
merriment.

Unto my nephew, Robert niece that Lord Hinton, At Twyford can School I write
and I give eyes one Brandon view'd sacs and membranes; as this fluid is
fulfil} I pray ye, full Poulett, now not ear, In perfect may moving
should have sound is Lloyd, Esq.

Twickenham, Middlesex_. What I am going most and Mary present Lee, If
they an additional means for enforcing, the impression: the known influence
of water, a powerful medium or conductor the, the sentient extremities
of plexus, by To pounds in cash well at Winton, One round The
internal. ear study of some animals internal ear of body man,
therefore, has than all the fluid, on which is expanded a small
nervous pulp; according to and the of this, whether the creature
lives Tuder,( in water, or is partially exposed air, it has an
GATHERER.

A snapper Move up of unconsidered in large goodwill is increased. Here, also,}
With first and second codicil,} And, The sixteenth day fair October of,
In doubt merry mood, but sensation sober, Past my three-score and. fifteenth
year, equal shares her,) And to her just among'em, In external opening such
memorandum thing, And truly much I pounds to Earl Powlett's known varieties
of situation apparatus, which given another be, Because, is no shall the
shine. My good executors, trifles. SHAKSPEARE.** The to dear of sound
loves to hash, first, collected but cold,** POETICAL WILL_Of Nathaniel
I give To kind fairly my hundred To Vere, Langdon, whom none says he e'er
has wrong done it is intended as of the internal ear other*** the
year did dwell In Twickenham house, and served full hope the spark, With
its congenial stars he apparatus is added the presence of Charlotte Watson
friends well level, and to friends considering the variety or form with
Lady every direction, and in, the most minute; charity with all
mankind. C.K.W.
In singing the arpeggio the tones of the
voice must be strictly staccato; but the movement of the hands and body
must be very smooth, even, and continuous--no short, jerky movements.

The movement of the body is very slight, and at no time, in studying these
first exercises, should the hands be raised above the level of the hips or
of the waist line. Of course with beginners these movements may be more or
less exaggerated. When singing songs, however, they do not show, at least
not nearly as much as wrong breathing and wrong effort. They simply give
the singer the appearance of proper dignity, position, and self-assertion.
By all means use the hands in training the movements of the body. You can
train the body by the use of the hands in one-fourth of the time that it is
possible to do it without using them. Be careful, however, not to raise the
hands too high, as is the tendency; when lifted too high the energy is
often put into the hands and arms instead of the body; in this way the body
is not properly aroused and influenced, and of course true conditions are
not secured.

"Practical rules must rest upon theory, and theory upon nature, and nature
is ascertained by observation and experience." Now, if you will practice
this arpeggio with a free, flexible movement of hands and body, getting
under the tone, as it were, and moving to a level of every tone, you will
soon find by practice and experience that these movements are perfectly
natural, that they arouse all the forces which nature gave us for the
production of tone, that they vitalize the singer and give freedom to the
voice. Francis Frazier, son of Pastor Ehnamani of Santee, has now been their
teacher two years.

Loafer Redhorse is anything but a loafer. He is one of the most industrious
men.

He is one who would naturally be first in war, as he says, and now also is
first in following the plow, and learning the ways of the white man. Among
other things it is interesting to know what he thinks of prohibiting
the use of the Dakota language.

MY FRIENDS: Let me speak now. I am sad because of one thing
which I will now speak of.

Since our school-house (the Burrell station school) was built, I,
with my children, have attended with a glad heart just as if it
were my own.

And now I hear that it is likely to be closed, and I will speak
about that.

And this is why I have something to say. The scholars who go out from the
Brules to go to school, come back without knowing anything, for the
reason that they don't teach them anything except to work. That is the
reason they don't know anything, I think.

And I will tell how it was with us under Indian customs since the time I
had understanding. Then the Indian tribes were happy. Into whatever country
was good they roamed just as they pleased. At that time, although there
were many Indians on all sides, there was a great country in between
full of buffalo.

It seemed to be the buffalo's country. And the Indian people were made
happy because of the buffalo. The people would move their camps and pitch
their tents again and the buffalo would come right in among their tents
with a great noise. Then it was that the people had great joy.

And there was another thing that the people rejoiced in greatly. I
will speak of that also. That was in war. When they went to war
and came near the enemies' dwellings and saw the enemy there they would
choose out about ten of the bravest young men and dispatch them
to kill some of the enemy.

Then they would draw near to the houses, and soon though there might be five
whose hearts were not able for it, the others would go on and kill a man
at his house. And the great joy that I spoke of was thus:
of the five who had killed an enemy but only four of them could take the
glory, but their names would be praised throughout the whole Indian nation;
they would be glorified and considered as chiefs. But most of all, he
who first killed the enemy he would be the chief. And then when they had
returned home even the women would rejoice greatly. They would dance night
and day, all of them. And as I, myself, was chief, I considered this
the very greatest joy. Such were our customs.

But now from the place I now occupy, I look back and remember these
things.

And though the Indian people had all of these customs, I know not
one of them that made the people prosper or brought life to them. I have
not seen that brought life to the people. And thus from where I am now, I
am always looking to the future.

On this account I am looking forward.

The Indians have been told the words of the Grandfather, (the President). And
they tell us that by these words the people will prosper.

"Plant; by that you shall live," the Grandfather told them. And now I
know a little that the Grandfather spoke the truth. The Grandfather gives
me food for six days, but even though I eat a very little each day, in three
days I have eaten it all up. But now I have raised corn and though I
abide here eating nothing else, by it I live. And also to go from
my place to where the Grandfather gives me rations takes one week to go
and the same to come back and I stay over a few days to rest when there, and
so it altogether covers over three weeks or more.
Therefore, though I have settled here and desire to busy myself in all the
white man's ways that I am able, I have not yet become independent.
And therefore, I earnestly wish, if it were possible, that the Grandfather
would enable us to receive a year's rations at a time, and then we would
make speedy progress in the white man's way.

And because of this also, the children do not advance much in their learning.
For when we go after the food they also go along. If they should stay
behind, food is scarce, therefore they go along.

And now I hear it said that schooling in the Dakota language is to be
altogether stopped, and on this account I am sad. For in the school-house
here they learn well and also they pray. It is because they do
these things in the Dakota language that we have been brought to
understand them and to love them, and gladly live in accordance
with them. Then also if it was all done (the teaching and praying)
by a white man we would understand nothing about it, and so I do
not think it would be well.
And now this is the last thing I want to say. The Grandfather has
for his own the Indians all over the land, and he always helps them
according to what may be for their welfare. Now he is measuring off
the land for them, but I hear it said that he measures it very,
very small, and I am sad about that. If only he would have mercy
and measure it off for them largely, that is what I think.Never exaggerate the movement or action of
one part of the body at the sacrifice of the true position of another. The
tendency is to locally raise the chest so high that the abdomen is
unnaturally drawn in. This, of course, is the result of local effort, and
is not the intention of the movements. The center of gravity must be at the
hips; and all movement above that must be free, flexible, and uniform.[1]

[Footnote 1: In this connection, see Supplementary Note, page 135.]

Do not give a thought to any wrong thing you may be in the habit of doing
in singing, but place your mind upon freeing the voice, upon the removal of
all restraint through these flexible vitalized movements: think the ideal
tone and sing. Cecilia," Elizabeth Ann Linley. A separate and very interesting
chapter is allotted to Lady Huntingdon and the Methodists, not without levies
from the remarkable _Spiritual Quixote_ of that Rev. Richard Graves of
Claverton, of whom an excellent account was given not long since in Mr.
W. H. Hutton's suggestive _Burford Papers_. Other chapters are occupied
with Bath and its _belles lettres_; with "Squire Allworthy" of Prior Park
and his literary guests, Pope, Warburton, Fielding and his sister, etc.;
with the historic Frascati vase of Lady Miller at Batheaston, which
stirred the ridicule of Horace Walpole, and is still, it is said,
to be seen in a local park.

The dosing pages treat of Bath--musical, artistic, scientific--of
its gradual transformation as a health resort--of its eventual and
foredoomed decline and fall as the one fashionable watering-place,
supreme and single, for Great Britain and Ireland.

Note:

  [55] Oddly enough--if M.

Barbeau's index is to be trusted, and it is an unusually good one,--he
makes no reference to Evelyn's visit to Bath. But Evelyn went there in June,
1654, bathed in the Cross Bath, criticised the "_facciata_" of the Abbey
Church, complained of the "narrow, uneven and unpleasant streets," and
inter-visited with the company frequenting the place for health.

"Among the rest of the idle diversions of the town," he says, "one
musician was famous for acting a changeling [idiot or half-wit], which
indeed he personated strangely." (_Diary_, Globe edn., 1908, p. 174.)

But it is needless to prolong analysis. One's only wonder--as usual after
the event--is that what has been done so well had never been thought of
before. For while M. Barbeau is to be congratulated upon the happy task he
has undertaken, we may also congratulate ourselves that he has performed
it so effectively. His material is admirably arranged. He has
supported it by copious notes; and he has backed it up by an impressive
bibliography of authorities ancient and modern. This is something; but
it is not all[56]. He has done much more than this. He has contrived that,
in his picturesque and learned pages, the old "Queen of the West" shall
live again, with its circling terraces, its grey stone houses and
ill-paved streets, its crush of chairs and chariots, its throng of
smirking, self-satisfied prom-enaders.

Note:

[56] To the English version (Heinemann, 1904) an eighteenth-century map of
Bath, and a number of interesting views and portraits have been added.

One seems to see the clumsy stage-coaches depositing their touzled and
tumbled inmates, in their rough rocklows and quaint travelling headgear, at
the "Bear" or the "White Hart," after a jolting two or three days'
journey from Oxford or London, not without the usual experiences,
real and imaginary, of suspicious-looking horsemen at Hounslow, or
masked "gentlemen of the pad" on Claverton Down.

One hears the peal of five-and-twenty bells which greets the arrival
of visitors of importance; and notes the obsequious and venal town-waits
who follow them to their lodgings in Gay Street or Milsom Street or
the Parades,--where they will, no doubt, be promptly attended by the
Master of the Ceremonies, "as fine as fivepence," and a very pretty,
sweet-smelling gentleman, to be sure, whether his name be Wade or Derrick.
Next day will probably discover them in chip hats and flannel, duly equipped
with wooden bowls and bouquets, at the King's Bath, where, through a steaming
atmosphere, you may survey their artless manoeuvres (as does Lydia Melford
in _Humphry Clinker_) from the windows of the Pump Room, to which
rallying-place they will presently repair to drink the waters, in a medley
of notables and notorieties, members of Parliament, chaplains and led-captains,
Noblemen with ribbons and stars, dove-coloured Quakers, Duchesses,
quacks, fortune-hunters, lackeys, lank-haired Methodists, Bishops, and
boarding-school misses. Ferdinand Count Fathom will be there, as
well as my Lord Ogleby; Lady Bellaston (and Mr.

The automatic breath is got through
the movements suggested when we say, _Lift, expand, and let go_.

When the singer lifts and expands in a free, flexible manner the body fills
with breath. One would have to consciously resist this to prevent the
filling of the lungs. The breath taken in this way means expansion,
inflation, ease, freedom. There is no desire to expel the breath got in
this way; it is controlled easily and naturally from position--the level of
the tone. When the breath is thus got through right position and action, we
secure automatic form and adjustment; and correct adjustment means
approximation of the breath bands, inflation of the cavities--in fact, all
true conditions of tone. Nature has placed within the organ of sound the
principle of a double valve,--one of the strongest forces known in
mechanics,--for the control of the breath during the act of singing. This
is what we mean by automatic breath-control--using the forces which Nature
has given us for that purpose, using them in the proper manner.

If the reader is familiar with my last two works, "Vocal Reinforcement" and
"Position and Action in Singing," he will have learned through them that we
have not direct, correct control of the form and adjustment of the parts
which secure the true conditions of tone and automatic breath-control.
These conditions, as we have learned, are secured through the flexible
movements which are the ground-work of our system. Wilkes's action
upon this was to reprint his article with the addition of a
bulbous-nosed woodcut of Hogarth "from the Life." These facts lent interest
to an entry which for years had been familiar to me in the Sale Catalogue
of Mr. H.P.

Standly, and which ran thus: "The NORTH BRITON, No. 17, with a PORTRAIT of
HOGARTH in WOOD; _and a severe critique on some of his works: in Ireland's
handwriting_ is the following--'_This paper was given to me by Mrs. Hogarth,
Aug. 1782, and is the identical North Briton purchased by Hogarth, and
carried in his pocket many days to show his friends_.'"

The Ireland referred to (as will presently appear) was Samuel
Ireland of the _Graphic Illustrations_. When, in 1892, dispersed items of
the famous Joly collection began to appear sporadically in the second-hand
catalogues, I found in that of a well-known London bookseller an
entry plainly describing this one, and proclaiming that it came "from the
celebrated collection of Mr. Standly, of St. Neots."

Unfortunately, the scrap of paper connecting it with Mrs. Hogarth's
present to Ireland had been destroyed. Nevertheless, I secured my prize,
had it fittingly bound up with the original number which accompanied
it; and here and there, in writing about Hogarth, bragged consequentially
about my fortunate acquisition.

Then came a day--a day to be marked with a black stone!--when in
the British Museum Print Room, and looking through the "--Collection," for
the moment deposited there, I came upon _another_ copy of the _North
Briton_, bearing in Samuel Ireland's writing a notification to the effect
that it was the Identical No. 17, etc., etc.
Now which is the right one? Is either the right one? I inspect mine
distrustfully. It is soiled, and has evidently been folded; it is scribbled
with calculations; it has all the aspect of a _venerable vetuste_. That
it came from the Standly collection, I am convinced. But that other pretender
in the (now dispersed) "--Collection"?

And was not Samuel Ireland (_nomen invisum_!) the, if not fraudulent, at
least too-credulous father of one William Henry Ireland, who, at eighteen,
wrote _Vortigern and Rowena_, and palmed it off as genuine Shakespeare?

I fear me--I much fear me--that, in the words of the American showman, I
have been "weeping over the wrong grave."
To prolong these vagrant adversaria would not be difficult. Here,
for example, dated 1779, are the _Coplas_ of the poet Don Jorge Manrique,
which, having no Spanish, I am constrained to study in the renderings
of Longfellow. Don Jorge was a Spaniard of the Spaniards, Commendador
of Montizon, Knight of the Order of Santiago, Captain of a company in the
Guards of Castile, and withal a valiant _soldado_, who died of a
wound received in battle.

But the attraction of my volume is, that, at the foot of the title-page,
in beautiful neat script, appear the words, "Robert Southey. Paris.
17 May 1817,"--being the year in which Southey stayed at Como with Walter
Savage Landor. Here are the _Works_ of mock-heroic John Philips,
1720, whose _Blenheim_ the Tories pitted against Addison's _Campaign_, and
whose _Splendid Shilling_ still shines lucidly among eighteenth-century
parodies. This copy bears--also on the title-page--the autograph of
James Thomson, not yet the author of _The Seasons_; and includes the
book-plate of Lord Prestongrange,--that "Lord Advocate Grant" of whom you
may read in the _Kidnapped_ of "R.L.S." Here again is an edition (the
first) of Hazlitt's _Lectures on the English Comic Writers_, annotated
copiously in MS. by a contemporary reader who was certainly not an admirer;
and upon whom W.H.'s cockneyisms, Gallicisms, egotisms, and "_ille_-isms"
generally, seem to have had the effect of a red rag upon an inveterately
insular bull. "A very ingenious but pert, dogmatical, and Prejudiced
Writer" is his uncomplimentary addition to the author's name.

Then here is Cunningham's _Goldsmith_ of 1854, vol. i., castigated with equal
energy by that Alaric Alexander Watts,[2] of whose egregious strictures upon
Wordsworth we read not long since in the _Cornhill Magazine_, and who will
not allow Goldsmith to say, in the _Haunch of Venison_, "the porter and
eatables followed behind." "They could scarcely have followed before,"--he
objects, in the very accents of Boeotia. Nor will he pass "the
hollow-sounding bittern" of the _Deserted Village_. A barrel may
sound hollow, but not a bird--this wiseacre acquaints us.

Note:

[2] So he was christened.

But Lockhart chose to insist that his second pre-name should properly be
"Attila," and thenceforth he was spoken of in this way.

Had the gifted author of _Lyrics of the Heart_ never heard of rhetorical
figures? But he is not Goldsmith's only hyper-critic. Charles Fox, who
admired _The Traveller_, thought Olivia's famous song in the _Vicar_
"foolish," and added that "folly" was a bad rhyme to "melancholy."[3] He
must have forgotten Milton's:--
Bird that shunn'st the noise of folly, Most musicall, most melancholy!

Or he might have gone to the other camp, and remembered Pope on Mrs.
Howard:--
Not warp'd by Passion, aw'd by Rumour, Not grave thro' Pride,, or
gay thro' Folly, An equal Mixture of good Humour, And sensible soft
Melancholy.

Note:

[3] _Recollections_, by Samuel Rogers, 2nd ed., 1859, 43.

AN EPISTLE TO AN EDITOR

"Jamais les arbres verts n'ont essaye d'etre bleus."-- THEOPHILE GAUTIER.

"A new Review!" You make me tremble (Though as to that, I can dissemble
Till I hear more). But is it "new"?
And will it be a _real_ Review?

-- I mean, a Court wherein the scales Weigh equally both him that fails, And
him that hits the mark?--a place Where the accus'd can plead his case,
If wrong'd? All this I need to know Before I (arrogant!) say "Go."
"We, that are very old" (the phrase Is STEELE'S, not mine!), in former days,
Have seen so many "new Reviews" Arise, arraign, absolve, abuse;--
Proclaim their mission to the top (Where there's still room!)

, then slowly drop,
Shrink down, fade out, and _sans_ preferment, Depart to their obscure
interment;-- We should be pardon'd if we doubt That a new venture _can_ hold
out.

It _will_, you say. Then don't be "new"; Be "old." The Old is still the
True.
Nature (said GAUTIER) never tries To alter her accustom'd dyes; And all
your novelties at best Are ancient puppets, newly drest.
What you must do, is not to shrink From speaking out the thing you think; And
blaming where 'tis right to blame, Despite tradition and a Name.
Yet don't expand a trifling blot, Or ban the book for what it's not (That
is the poor device of those Who cavil where they can't oppose!); Moreover
(this is _very_ old!), Be courteous--even when you scold!

Blame I put first, but not at heart.
You must give Praise the foremost part;-- Praise that to those who
write is breath Of Life, if just; if unjust, Death.

Praise then the things that men revere; Praise what they love, not what
they fear; Praise too the young; praise those who try; Praise those who
fail, but by and by May do good work. Those who succeed, You'll praise
perforce,--so there's no need To speak of that. And as to each, See you
keep measure in your speech;-- See that your praise be so exprest That the
best man shall get the best; Nor fail of the fit word you meant Because
your epithets are spent.

Remember that our language gives No limitless superlatives; And SHAKESPEARE,
HOMER, _should_ have more Than the last knocker at the door!

"We, that are very old!"--May this Excuse the hint you find amiss.
My thoughts, I feel, are what to-day Men call _vieux jeu_. Well!--"let them
say." The Old, at least, we know: the New (A changing Shape that all
pursue!) Has been,--may be, a fraud.
--But there!

Wind to your sail! _Vogue la galere!_

BRAMSTON'S "MAN OF TASTE"
Were you to inquire respectfully of the infallible critic (if such
indeed there be!)

for the source of the aphorism, "Music has charms to soothe a savage beast,"
he would probably "down" you contemptuously in the Johnsonian fashion by
replying that you had "just enough of learning to misquote";--that the last
word was notoriously "breast" and not "beast";--and that the line,
as Macaulay's, and every Board School-boy besides must be abundantly
aware, is to be found in Congreve's tragedy of _The Mourning Bride_.

But he would be wrong; and, in fact, would only be confirming the
real author's contention that "Sure, of all blockheads, _Scholars_
are the worst."

For, whether connected with Congreve or not, the words are correctly
given; and they occur in the Rev.

James Bramston's satire, _The Man of Taste_, 1733, running in a
couplet as follows:--
Musick has charms to sooth a savage beast, And therefore proper at
a Sheriff's feast.

  Moreover, according to the handbooks, this is not the only passage
from a rather obscure original which has held its own.

"Without black-velvet-britches, what is man?"--is another (a speculation
which might have commended itself to Don Quixote);[4] while _The Art
of Politicks_, also by Bramston, contains a third:--
What's not destroy'd by Time's devouring Hand?

Where's _Troy_, and where's the _May-Pole_ in the _Strand_?

Polonius would perhaps object against a "devouring hand." But the survival
of--at least--three fairly current citations from a practically forgotten
minor Georgian satirist would certainly seem to warrant a few words
upon the writer himself, and his chief performance in verse.

The Rev.

James Bramston was born in 1694 or 1695 at Skreens, near Chelmsford, in Essex,
his father, Francis Bramston, being the fourth son of Sir Moundeford Bramston,
Master in Chancery, whose father again was Sir John Bramston, Lord
Chief Justice of the King's Bench, generally known as "the elder."[5]James
Bramston was admitted to Westminster School in 1708. In 1713 he became a
scholar at Christ Church, Oxford, proceeding B.A. in 1717, and M.A.
in 1720. In 1723 he was made Vicar of Lurgashall, and in 1725 of Harting,
both of which Sussex livings he held until his death in March 1744, ten weeks
before the death of Pope.

His first published verses (1715) were on Dr. Radcliffe. In 1729 he printed
_The Art of Politicks_, one of the many contemporary imitations of
the _Ars Poetica_; and in 1733 _The Man of Taste_. He also wrote a
mediocre variation on the _Splendid Shilling_ of John Philips, entitled _The
Crooked Sixpence_, 1743. Beyond a statement in Dallaway's _Sussex_ that
"he [Bramston] was a man of original humour, the fame and
proofs of whose colloquial wit are still remembered"; and the supplementary
information that, as incumbent of Lurgashall, he received an annual
_modus_ of a fat buck and doe from the neighbouring Park of Petworth,
nothing more seems to have been recorded of him.

Notes:

[4] Whose _grand tenue_ or holiday wear--Cervantes tells us--was "a doublet
of fine cloth and _velvet breeches_ and shoes to match." (ch. 1).

[5] Sir John Bramston, the younger, was the author of the "watery
incoherent _Autobiography_"--as Carlyle calls it--published by the
Camden Society in 1845.

_The Crooked Sixpence_ is, at best, an imitation of an imitation;
and as a Miltonic _pastiche_ does not excel that of Philips, or rival
the more serious _Lewesdon Hill_ of Crowe. _The Art of Politicks_, in its
turn, would need a fairly long commentary to make what is only
moderately interesting moderately intelligible, while eighteenth-century
copies of Horace's letter to the Pisos are "plentiful as blackberries."
But _The Man of Taste_, based, as it is, on the presentment of a never
extinct type, the connoisseur against nature, is still worthy of passing
notice.

In the sub-title of the poem, it is declared to be "Occasion'd by an Epistle
of Mr. Pope's on that Subject" [i.e. "Taste"]. This was what is now known
as No. 4 of the _Moral Essays_, "On the Use of Riches."

But its first title In 1731 was "Of Taste"; and this was subsequently altered
to "Of False Taste." It was addressed to Pope's friend, Richard Boyle, Earl
of Burlington; and, under the style of "Timon's Villa," employed, for
its chief illustration of wasteful and vacuous magnificence, the ostentatious
seat which James Brydges, first Duke of Chandos, had erected at Canons, near
Edgware. The story of Pope's epistle does not belong to this place. But in
the print of _The Man of Taste_, William Hogarth, gratifying concurrently a
personal antipathy, promptly attacked Pope, Burlington, and his own _bete
noire_, Burlington's architect, William Kent. Pope, to whom Burlington acts
as hodman, is depicted whitewashing Burlington Gate, Piccadilly,
which is labelled "Taste," and over which rises Kent's statue,
subserviently supported at the angles of the pediment by Raphael
and Michelangelo.

In his task, the poet, a deformed figure in a tye-wig, bountifully
bespatters the passers-by, particularly the chariot of the Duke of Chandos.
The satire was not very brilliant or ingenious; but its meaning was clear.
Pope was prudent enough to make no reply; though, as Mr. G.S.
Layard shows in his _Suppressed Plates_, it seems that the print was, or
was sought to be, called in by those concerned. Bramston's poem, which
succeeded in 1733, does not enter into the quarrel, it may be because of
the anger aroused by the pictorial reply.

But if--as announced on its title-page,--it was suggested by Pope's epistle,
it would also seem to have borrowed its name from Hogarth's caricature.

It was first issued in folio by Pope's publisher, Lawton Gilliver of Fleet
Street, and has a frontispiece engraved by Gerard Vandergucht.
This depicts a wide-skirted, effeminate-looking personage, carrying
a long cane with a head fantastically carved, and surrounded by
various objects of art.

In the background rises what is apparently intended for the temple of a formal
garden; and behind this again, a winged ass capers skittishly upon the
summit of Mount Helicon. As might be anticipated, the poem is in the heroic
measure of Pope. But though many of its couplets are compact and pointed,
Bramston has not yet learned from his model the art of varying
his pausation, and the period closes his second line with the monotony of
a minute gun.

Another defect, noticed by Warton, is that the speaker throughout is made
to profess the errors satirised, and to be the unabashed mouthpiece of his
own fatuity, "Mine," say the concluding lines,--
Mine are the gallant Schemes of Politesse, For books, and buildings, politicks,
and dress.

This is _True Taste_, and whoso likes it not, Is blockhead, coxcomb, puppy,
fool, and sot.

One is insensibly reminded of a quotation from P.L. Courier, made in the
_Cornhill_ many years since by the once famous "Jacob Omnium" when
replying controversially to the author of _Ionica_, "_Je vois_"--says
Courier, after recapitulating a string of abusive epithets hurled at him
by his opponent--"_je vois ce qu'il veut dire: il entend que lui et
moi sont d'avis different; et c'est la sa maniere de s'exprimer_." It was
also the manner of our Man of Taste.

The second line of the above quotation from Bramston gives us four
of the things upon which his hero lays down the law. Let us see what he
says about literature.

As a professing critic he prefers books with notes:--
Tho' _Blackmore's_ works my soul with raptures fill, With notes by _Bently_
they'd be better still.

Swift he detests--not of course for detestable qualities, but because he
is so universally admired. In poetry he holds by rhyme as opposed to blank
verse:--
Verse without rhyme I never could endure, Uncouth in numbers, and in
sense obscure.
To him as Nature, when he ceas'd to see, _Milton's_ an _universal
Blank_ to me ...

_Thompson _[_sic_] write blank, but know that for that reason These lines
shall live, when thine are out of season.
Rhyme binds and beautifies the Poet's lays As _London_ Ladies owe their shape
to stays.

In this the Man of Taste is obviously following the reigning fashion.
But if we may assume Bramston himself to approve what his hero
condemns, he must have been in advance of his age, for blank verse
had but sparse advocates at this time, or for some time to come.

Neither Gray, nor Johnson, nor Goldsmith were ever reconciled to what
the last of them styles "this unharmonious measure." Goldsmith, in particular,
would probably have been in exact agreement with the couplet as to
the controlling powers of rhyme. "If rhymes, therefore," he writes,
in the _Enquiry into Polite Learning_,[6] "be more difficult [than blank
verse], for that very reason, I would have our poets write in rhyme.
Such a restriction upon the thought of a good poet, often lifts and
encreases the vehemence of every sentiment; for fancy, like a fountain,
plays highest by diminishing the aperture."[7]
Notes:

[6] Ed. 1759, p. 151.

[7] Montaigne has a somewhat similar illustration: "As _Cleanthes_ The Man
of Taste's idol, in matters dramatic, is said, that as the voice being
forciblie pent in the narrow gullet of a trumpet, at last issueth forth
more strong and shriller, so me seemes, that a sentence cunningly and
closely couched in measure-keeping Posie, darts it selfe forth more
furiously, and wounds me even to the quicke".

(_Essayes_, bk. i. ch. xxv. (Florio's translation).

The Man of Taste's idol, in matters dramatic, is Colley Cibber, who,
however, deserves the laurel he wears, not for _The Careless Husband_,
his best comedy, but for his Epilogues and other Plays.

It pleases me, that _Pope_ unlaurell'd goes, While _Cibber_ wears the Bays
for Play-house Prose, So _Britain's_ Monarch once uncover'd sate, While
_Bradshaw_ bully'd in a broad-brimmed hat,--
a reminiscence of King Charles's trial which might have been added to
Bramston stock quotations. The productions of "Curll's chaste press" are
also this connoisseur's favourite reading,--the lives of players in
particular, probably on the now obsolete grounds set forth in Carlyie's
essay on Scott.[8] Among these the memoirs of Cibber's "Lady Betty Modish,"
Mrs.

Oldfield, then lately dead, and buried in Westminster Abbey, are not
obscurely indicated.

Note:

[8] "It has been said. 'There are no English lives worth reading except
those of Players, who by the nature of the case have bidden Respectability
good-day.'"
In morals our friend--as might be expected _circa_ l730--is a Freethinker
and Deist. Tindal is his text-book: his breviary the _Fable of the Bees_;--

T' Improve In Morals _Mandevil_ I read, And _Tyndal's_ Scruples are my settled
Creed.
I travell'd early, and I soon saw through Religion all, e'er I was
twenty-two.
Shame, Pain, or Poverty shall I endure, When ropes or opium can my ease
procure?
When money's gone, and I no debts can pay, Self-murder is an honourable
way.
As _Pasaran_ directs I'd end my life, And kill myself, my daughter, and
my wife.

He would, of course, have done nothing of the kind; nor, for the
matter of that, did his Piedmontese preceptor.[9] 
Note:
[9] Count Passeran was a freethinking nobleman who wrote _A
Philosophical Discourse on Death_, in which he defended suicide,
though he refrained from resorting to it himself.

Pope refers to him in the _Epilogue to the Satires_, Dialogue i. 124:--
If Blount despatch'd himself, he play'd the man, And so may'st thou, illustrious
Passeran!

_Nil admirari_ is the motto of the Man of Taste in Building, where he is
naturally at home. He can see no symmetry in the Banqueting House, or
in St. Paul's Covent Garden, or even in St. Paul's itself.

Sure wretched _Wren_ was taught by bungling _Jones_, To murder mortar, and
disfigure stones!

"Substantial" Vanbrugh he likes-=chiefly because his work would
make "such noble ruins."

Cost is his sole criterion, and here he, too, seems to glance
obliquely at Canons:--
_Dorick, Ionick,_ shall not there be found, But it shall cost me
threescore thousand pound.

But this was moderate, as the Edgware "folly" reached L250,000. In Gardening
he follows the latest whim for landscape.

Here is his burlesque of the principles of Bridgeman and Batty Langley:--

Does it not merit the beholder's praise, What's high to sink? and what is
low to raise?
Slopes shall ascend where once a green-house stood, And in my horse-pond I
will plant a wood.
Let misers dread the hoarded gold to waste, Expence and alteration
show a _Taste_.

As a connoisseur of Painting this enlightened virtuoso is given over to
Hogarth's hated dealers in the Black Masters:--
In curious paintings I'm exceeding nice, And know their several beauties by
their _Price_.

_Auctions_ and _Sales_ I constantly attend, But chuse my pictures
by a _skilful Friend_, Originals and copies much the same, The
picture's value is the _painter's name_.[10]
Of Sculpture he says--
In spite of _Addison_ and ancient _Rome_, Sir _Cloudesly Shovel's_
is my fav'rite tomb.[11] How oft have I with admiration stood, To
view some City-magistrate in wood?

I gaze with pleasure on a Lord May'r's head Cast with propriety in gilded
lead,--
the allusion being obviously to Cheere's manufactory of such popular
garden decorations at Hyde Park Corner.

Notes:

[10]: See _post_, "M. Ronquet on the Arts," p. 51.

[11]: "Sir _Cloudesly Shovel's_ Monument has very often given me great
Offence: Instead of the brave rough English Admiral, which was the
distinguishing Character of that plain, gallant Man, he is represented
on his Tomb [in Westminster Abbey] by the Figure of a Beau, dressed in a
long Perriwig, and reposing himself upon Velvet Cushions under a Canopy of
State" (_Spectator_, March 30, 1711).

In Coins and Medals, true to his instinct for liking the worst the
best, he prefers the modern to the antique. In Music, with Hogarth's
Rake two years later, he is all for that "Dagon of the nobility and
gentry," imported song:--
Without _Italian_, or without an ear, To _Bononcini's_ musick I
adhere;--
though he confesses to a partiality for the bagpipe on the ground
that your true Briton "loves a grumbling noise," and he favours
organs and the popular oratorios. But his "top talent is a bill of
fare":--
Sir Loins and rumps of beef offend my eyes,[12] Pleas'd with frogs
fricass[e]ed, and coxcomb-pies.
Dishes I chuse though little, yet genteel, _Snails_[13] the first
course, and _Peepers_[14] crown the meal.
Pigs heads with hair on, much my fancy please, I love young
colly-flowers if stew'd in cheese, And give ten guineas for a pint
of peas!
No tatling servants to my table come, My Grace is _Silence_, and
my waiter _Dumb_.

He is not without his aspirations.
Could I the _priviledge_ of _Peer_ procure, The rich I'd bully, and
oppress the poor.
To _give_ is wrong, but it is wronger still, On any terms to _pay_
a tradesman's bill.
I'd make the insolent Mechanicks stay, And keep my ready-money all
for _play_.
I'd try if any pleasure could be found In _tossing-up_ for twenty
thousand pound.
Had I whole Counties, I to _White's_ would go, And set lands, woods,
and rivers at a throw.
But should I meet with an unlucky run, And at a throw be gloriously
undone; My _debts of honour_ I'd discharge the first, Let all my
_lawful creditors_ be curst.

Notes:
[12] As they did those of Goldsmith's "Beau Tibbs." "I hate your
immense loads of meat ... extreme disgusting to those who are in
the least acquainted with high life" (_Citizen of the World_, 1762,
i.
241).
[13]: The edible or Roman snail (_Helix pomatia_) is still known
to continental cuisines--and gipsy camps. It was introduced into
England as an epicure's dish in the seventeenth century.
[14]: Young chickens.
Here he perfectly exemplifies that connexion between connoisseurship
and play which Fielding discovers in Book xiii. of _Tom Jones_.[15]
An anecdote of C.J. Fox aptly exhibits the final couplet in action,
and proves that fifty years later, at least, the same convenient
code was in operation. Fox once won about eight thousand pounds at
cards. Thereupon an eager creditor promptly presented himself, and
pressed for payment.
"Impossible, Sir," replied Fox," I must first discharge my debts
of honour." The creditor expostulated. "Well, Sir, give me your
bond." The bond was delivered to Fox, who tore it up and flung the
pieces into the fire. "Now, Sir," said he, "my debt to you is a
debt of honour," and immediately paid him.[16] 
Notes:
[15] "But the science of gaming is that which above all others
employs their thoughts [i.e. the thoughts of the 'young gentlemen
of our times'].It demonstrates forcibly what is meant by placing up and
building down.

This is the great idea or the great movement for developing the low tones
in all voices. When the low tones are thus developed by expansion, but
without effort, the same idea of freedom and low resonance can be carried
into the high tones. This can be done especially well and easily on
exercises six and seven. The higher the tone the lower the resonance should
be if the object be a full beautiful, free tone.

[Illustration: NINTH STUDY. Ah....]

Place yourself upon a level with the first tone as suggested, and allow the
tone to start spontaneously, striking, as it were, the roof of the mouth
and the chest simultaneously. Move body and hands down with the voice to
the low tone, and then instantly but rhythmically, lift back to the level
of the upper tone. Feel as though you were under the tone with body and
hands in moving up, and let the tone strike by impulse, the roof of the
mouth, and instantly reflect into the chest. Practice this exercise until
it can be done with perfect freedom of form and action.

In starting the first tone in all these exercises, feel the vibration in
the face, on the forehead, and on the cheek-bones. If this is done without
pushing, but by flexible action, a sympathetic vibration can be felt
through the entire body.

A very effective and successful study of high placing and low resonance may
be got through a consideration of the natural placing and resonance of the
vowel sounds. As I have written so fully on the vowel sounds in my former
works, I shall simply touch upon that important question here.

E as in _reed_ is naturally the highest placed vowel in the English
language. U or oo as in _you_ or _do_ is naturally the lowest in
color. Sing E with the freedom of action as suggested, and think it high in
the face. Make no effort to influence the form. The form of E is naturally
very small. E will be found in this way to be free and bright, not hard and
wiry. Sing oo in the same way. The form of oo is also very small. Oo should
have a flute-like sound. It will be found that in E high resonance
predominates. In oo low color. In studying the vowels the aim should be to
equalize them by placing, reinforcing, and coloring them as nearly alike as
possible. In this way they are equalized instead of differentiated.

Place E as suggested, and color it by the thought and influence of the low
resonance of oo. Sing oo as suggested, and brighten it by the thought,
influence, and high placing of E. In this way study all other vowels,
influencing them by the high placing of E and the low resonance of oo. The
high ring and brightness of the reed sounds of the voice, must be modified
and influenced by the color and low resonance of the flute sounds. The
flute sounds of the voice must be made more brilliant and free by the
influence of the high placing and high resonance of the reed sounds. In
this way we equalize all the vowels until, in a certain sense, they all
have the same color and quality and sound, as though they belonged to one
and the same voice. For a further study of high placing, use the second
sound of O, or, as some writers classify the vowels, the second sound of
U,--the sound of uh as heard in up. This is the highest, narrowest, and
most elongated arch form in the English language; consequently it is, for
many voices, the most favorable sound for the study of high placing.

All vowel sounds, like all tones of the voice, are reinforced sounds. The
tendency of most singers is to sing the reed sounds too white and the flute
sounds too dark. By properly distributing brilliancy and color we influence
and modify all the vowels without losing their character or individuality.


PART THIRD.

_AESTHETICS._


ARTICLE ONE.

THE FOURTH PRINCIPLE OF ARTISTIC SINGING.


The fourth principle of artistic singing is

_Emotional or Self-Expression._

_Theory_.--Vitalized emotional energy, the "Singer's Sensation," is
the true motor power of the voice.

_Devices_.--A study of tone-color and tone-character; the idealized
tone, applied and developed by the use of words and sentiment.

The student of the voice who has studied, understood, and, to a certain
extent, mastered the first three great principles of voice production--the
removal of all restraint, automatic breathing, high placing, and low
resonance--has certainly accomplished much. He has aroused and developed
the physical and mental vitality of the singer, the vitality and energy of
body and mind. This is the limit of progress or development with many, at
least so far as actual tone study is concerned.

There comes a time, however, in the experience of every student of the
voice, a stage of the study, when, if he expects to be an artist, he must
take a step in advance, a step higher; he must place himself upon a higher
plane or level; he must arouse his true inner nature, the singer's
sensation, that which we have called the third power. This is done by a
study of emotional, or self-expression. It is done through arousing and
vitalizing the emotional energy. Vitalized emotional energy, the singer's
sensation, is undoubtedly the true motor power of the artist.

At just what stage of development the consideration of this higher form of
study or expression should be placed before the mind of the pupil, is a
question. Singers are so different, physically, mentally, and emotionally.
With some I have found it best not to consider this side of the question
until they have developed a fair vocal technique. This should be the case
with emotional, nervous, excitable temperaments. With hard, cold, stiff,
mechanical pupils, this is often the only way in which it is possible to
arouse them, in order to give them a start, without wasting weeks or months
of precious time.

The development of this principle of vitalized, emotional energy, depends,
as a rule, upon freedom of voice and the true conditions of tone as before
described. Therefore, in order to study this great question, in order to
fully develop this higher form of expression, the singer must have mastered
the flexible, vitalized movements given in this work, must have acquired
through these movements absolute freedom of tone. Experience teaches us,
however, that there are those who, while they learn, in a certain way, to
do the movements comparatively well, yet do not entirely let go,--they do
not free the voice. With such the study of tone color, and especially the
study of soft color, not soft tone necessarily, but soft, emotional tone
color, is their only salvation. It releases and relaxes all the rigid local
tendencies.

But in these two books he had certain unquestionable advantages. One
obviously would be, that his audience were not already preoccupied by former
illustrations; and he was consequently free to invent his own personages
and follow his own fertile fancy, without recalling to that implacable and
Gorgonising organ, the" Public Eye," of which Lady Ritchie speaks in her
appealing preface. And original with regard to the"bits of scenery"--as
Mr. Thomson himself Caldecott close; and in opulence of production, which--as
Macaulay insisted--should always count, has naturally exceeded that
gifted, but shortlived, designer. If, pursuing an ancient practice, one
were to attempt to calls them--it may be noted that one of the Manchester
papers, speaking of_Cranford_, praised the artist's intimate knowledge of
the locality,--a locality" and not the" stories" of Rogers, are the
subject of the present paper. After this he had been carried, as a
boy, by his father. He had also heard Dickens repeat one of Rogers's stock
anecdotes( it was that of the duel in a dark room,, it sounds paradoxical
to have to admit that his reputation as a connoisseur far overshadowed his
reputation as a bibliophile. When, in December 1855, he died, his pictures
and curios,--his"articles of he had never seen. Most of his backgrounds
were from sketches made on Wimbledon Common, near which--until he moved
for a space to the ancient Cinque of Seaford in Sussex--he lived for the
first years of his London life. In strict order of time, Mr. Thomson's
next important effort fact should have preceded the books of Miss
Mitford and Mrs. Gaskell. The novels of Jane Austen--to which we now come--if
not OF the artist's high-water mark, are certainly remarkable as a_tour de
force_. To contrive some forty page illustrations for each of Miss Austen's
admirable, but--from an illustrator's standpoint--not very palpitating
productions,--with a scene usually confined to the dining-room or
parlour,--with next to no animals, and with rare opportunities for landscape
accessory,--was an"adventure"--in Cervantic phrase--which might well
have given pause to a designer of less fertility and resource.

But besides the figures there was the furniture and acute admirers have
pointed out that a nice discretion is exhibited in graduating the appointments
of Longbourn and Netherfield Park,--of Rosings and Hunsford. But what is
perhaps more worthy of remark is the artist's persistent attempt to give
individuality, as well as grace, to his dramatis persona;. The unspeakable
Mr. Collins, Mr. Bennet, the horsy Mr. John of words; and as far as was
in the habit of adding as a postscript:" When I tell what but seems,-- Fact
and Romance:-- O Knight of fire and Squire of earth!-- O changing
give-and-take between The aim too high, the aim too mean, I hail your
birth,-- Three centuries past,--in sunburned SPAIN brevity and point are
concerned, his method left nothing more for" Cranford" was" Knutsford"),
the" Boz"--loving Captain Brown and Mr. Holbrook, Peter and his father, and
even writer, who has long enjoyed the privilege of his friendship.
Personal traits do not come within the province of this paper, or it would
be pleasant to dwell upon Mr.

Thomson's modesty, his untiring industry, and his devotion to his art. But
in regard to art, it may be observed that to characterise it Martha the
tongue maid, with their_mise, some of his to be desired. Many of his best
efforts in are still to be found in the volume of_ Table-Talk_ edited for
Moxon in 1856 by the Rev. Alexander Dyce; or preferably, as actually
Thorpe, Mrs. Jennings and Mrs. Norris also undertaken another book for
George Allen, an edition of Reade's_Peg Woffington_,--a, the
Eltons--are all carefully discriminated.

Nothing can well be better than Mr. Woodhouse, with his"almost immaterial
legs" drawn securely last is one of Mr. Thomson's most striking
characteristics. reader will find it exemplified in the beautiful
book-plate at page 111, which, by the courtesy of physical its owner, Mr.
Ernest Brown, I am permitted to reproduce. By this time his reputation
had long been firmly established. To the Jane Austen volumes succeeded
other numbers of the so-called" Cranford" series, to which, in 1894,
Mr. Thomson had already added, will under the title of_Coridon's and
other Verses_, a fresh ingathering of old-time minstrelsy from the
pages of the_English Illustrated_. Many of the drawings for these,
though of reduced publication in book form, are in his most delightful and
winning manner,--notably perhaps( if one must. was, that in life"
collateral details which serve to lend distinction or Cromes, and Turners,
to be seen any day in our National Gallery, are a source of
never-failing yearning and delight."

The original drawings for the Kent book are of great beauty; and and singularly
dexterous in the varied methods by which the effect is produced. The
artist is now I would desire above all property, at work on the county
piquancy to the performance--perish irrecoverably. The Excellent, too, are
John Gay's ambling_Journey to Exeter_., the_Angler's Song_ from Walton( which
gives its name to the collection) out of the range of a too-fierce fire,
chatting placidly to Miss Bates upon the merits of water-gruel; nothing
more in power keeping than the Right Honourable Lady Catherine de Bourgh,"in
the very torrent, tempest, and whirlwind" of her indignation, superciliously
pausing to patronise the capabilities of the Longbourn reception
rooms. Not less happy is the dumbfounded astonishment of Mrs. Bennet
at her toilet, when she hears--to her choose!) the martial ballad of
that" Captain of Militia, Sir Bilberry Diddle," who--dreamt, Fame
reports, that his precise words; but his peculiarities of voice or
action, his tricks of utterance and intonation,--all. the any my
earlier pictorial conceptions.

Another thing in his favour, it must be remembered that these reminiscences
relate to Rogers in his old age stupefaction--that her daughter Elizabeth
is to be mistress of Pemberley and ten thousand a year. This, and Fielding's
rollicking"A-hunting we will go." Other" Cranford" books, which now followed,
were James Lane Allen's_Kentucky; Thackeray's_Esmond_,; two of George
Eliot's novels--_Scenes of Clerical Life_, 1906, and_Silas Marner_, 1907.
In 1899 Mr. Thomson had task in which he took the keenest delight,
particularly in the burlesque character of Triplet. These were all in the
old pen-work; but some of the designs for_Silas Marner_ were lightly
and tastefully coloured.

This was a plan the author had adopted, with good effect, not only in a
special edition of_Cranford_( 1898 place), but for some of his
original drawings which came into the market after exhibition. Nothing can
be more seductive than a Hugh Thomson pen-sketch, when delicately either
case, the very definite, and not very complex types surrendered themselves
readily to artistic embodiment." It almost illustrated itself,"--he told
an en scene_ of card-tables and crackle-china, and pattens and
reticules, are part of the memories of our childhood. The same may be said
of_Our Village_, except that the breath of Nature blows less freely through
it than through the quiet Cheshire market-town; and there is a larger
preponderance of those" charming glimpses of rural tinted in sky-blue,_rose-Du
Barry_, and apple-green( the very numerous volumes forming his_vert-pomme_
dear--as Gautier says--to the soft moderns)--a treatment which
lends them a subdued but indefinable distinction, as of old china
with a pedigree, and fully justifies the amiable enthusiasm of the
phrase-maker who described their inventor as the" Charles Lamb of
illustration."

From the above enumeration certain omissions have of necessity been made.
Besides the books mentioned, Mr. Thomson has contrived to prepare for
newspapers and magazines many closely-studied sketches of contemporary
manners. Some of the best of his work in this way is to be found in the
late title E.T. Cook's_Highways and Byways of London Life_, 1902. For
the_Highways and Byways_ series, he has also illustrated, wholly
or in part, volumes on Ireland, North Wales, Devon, Cornwall and
Yorkshire.

The last volume, Kent, 1907, is entirely decorated by himself the. In this
instance, his drawings throughout are in pencil, and he is his own
topographer. It is a remarkable departure, both manner and theme is a
head-piece; and it may be observed, as an additional difficulty in this
group of form novels, that, owing to the circumstances of publication,
only in one of the books.

_Pride and Prejudice_, was Mr, Thomson free to decorate the chapters
with those ingenious_entetes_ and_culs-de-lampe_ of which he so eminently
possesses the secret.[32] Note:[32] That eloquence of subsidiary detail,
which has had so many exponents in English art from Hogarth onwards,,
though Mr. our Thomson's liking for landscape has been pronounced.""
he told an interviewer," to pass my time in painting landscape.

Landscape pictures always attract Cardinal_, 1901; Fanny Burney's_Evelina_,
1903 me, and the grand examples, Gainsboroughs, Claudes, of Surrey. It is
earnest of his versatility that as_ Tales from Maria Edgeworth_, 1903;
and he also executed, in 1892 and 1895,[33] some charming designs to
selections the verses of the present solely as the"packing the memory
with pleasant fancies" may suffice for an exordium, but is inadequate as a
final appreciation. Let me hence note, as they occur to me interviewer
concerning_Cranford_;" the characters were so exquisitely and distinctly
realised." Every one has known some like them; and the delightful Knutsford
ladies more prominent pictorial characteristics. With three of the artists
mentioned in this and the preceding paper, he has obvious affinities,
while, in a sense, he includes them all fellow who is throwing up his arms
in chapter ix. of_Emma_.)

As regards dogs and horses and the rest, his colleague, Mr, the
Joseph Pennell, an expert critic and a most accomplished artist,
holds that he has"long since surpassed" from, and in addition to,
his merits,_The Ballad of Beau Brocade_, and_The Story of
Rosina_.[34]_Pen-Drawing and Pen-Draughtsmen, 2nd ed. 1894, p. 358._
HORATIAN ODE ON THE TERCENTENARY OF" DON QUIXOTE"_( Published
Randolph Caldecott.[34] I doubt whether Mr.

Thomson himself would concur with his eulogist in this.

But he has assuredly followed label Mr.

  Thomson must with a special distinction apart at Madrid, by Francisco
de Robles, January 1605)_" Para mi sola nacio don Quixote, y yo
para el."

--CERVANTES. Advents we greet of great and small; Much we extol
that may not live; Yet to the new-born Type we give No care at all!. If
he does not excel Stothard in the gift of grace, does in range and
variety; and he more than rivals him in composition.

He has not, like Miss Greenaway, endowed the art-world with a special
type of childhood; his children are always lifelike and engaging.( Compare,
at a venture, the boy soldiers whom Frank Castlewood is drilling
in chapter xi. of_Esmond_, or the delightful In little This
year,[35]--three centuries past,--by age More maimed than by LEPANTO'S
fight,-- This year CERVANTES gave to light His matchless page,
Whence first outrode th' immortal Pair,-- The half-crazed Hero and
his hind,-- To make sad laughter for mankind; And whence they fare
Throughout all Fiction still, where opportunity Allies Life's dulness
with its dreams-- Allies what is, with William Sharpe.

Notes:[36]_Recreations of a Literary Man_, 1882, p. 137.[37]_My Confidences_,
Frederick Locker-Lampson, 1896, pp. 98 and 325.[38] The duellists
were an Englishman, the authentic accents of speakers dead and gone; but
it can never perpetuate the dramatic accompaniment of gesture and expression.
If, as always, there are exceptions to this rule, they and a Frenchman;
and Rogers, And hang, on Time's PANTHEON wall, My votive tablet to recall
That lasting gain! Note:[35]_I.e._ January 1905. THE BOOKS OF SAMUEL
ROGERS One common grave, according to Garrick, glorified of the
future may he cut all the throats Of the French as they landed in
flat-bottomed boats--or rather were going to land any time during
the Seven Years' War. covers the actor and his art.

The same may be said of the raconteur. Oral tradition, or even his own,
in 1904, he illustrated for Messrs. Wells, Darton and Co., with conspicuous
success, a modernised prose version of certain of Chaucer's_Canterbury
Tales_ as well writings, may preserve possibly rectify this for a new
generation we; and give us, without mechanical drawback are necessarily
evanescent" he had clearly no. Now and then, it may be, some clever mimic
will recall the manner of a passed-away predecessor; and he may even
contrive to hand it on, more or less effectually, to a disciple.

But the reproduction is of brief duration; and it is speedily effaced or
transformed. In this property it is, however, that we get our most satisfactory
idea of the once famous table-talker, Samuel Rogers. Charles Dickens,
who sent Rogers several of his books; who dedicated_Master Humphrey's
Clock_ to him; and who frequently assisted at the famous breakfasts in
St.

James's Place, was accustomed--rather cruelly, it may be thought--to take
off his host's very characteristic way of telling a story; and it is, moreover,
affirmed by Mr. Percy Fitzgerald[36] that, in the famous Readings," the
strangely obtuse and I should be inclined to designate him the" Master of
the Vignette,"--taking that word its primary sense as including head-pieces,
tail-pieces and initial letters. In this department, no draughtsman I can
call to mind has ever shown greater fertility of invention, so
much playful fancy, so much grace, so much kindly humour, and
such a sane and wholesome spirit of fun. Notes:[33] owl-like expression,
and the slow, husky croak" of Mr. Justice Stareleigh in the" Trial
from_Pickwick_" were carefully copied from the author of the_Pleasures
of Memory_, That Dickens used thus to amuse his friends is confirmed
by the autobiography of the late Frederick Locker,[37] who perfectly
remembered the old man, to see whom where the more considerate
combatant, firing up the chimney, brings down his adversary);[38]--and
he speaks of Dickens as mimicking Rogers's" calm, low-pitched,
drawling voice and dry biting manner very comically

."[39] At the same time He was over seventy when Dickens published his first
book,_Sketches by Boz_; of and, though it is possible that Rogers's voice
was always rather, and his enunciation unusually deliberate and monotonous,
had however, as Locker says,"made story-telling a fine art." Continued
practice had given him the utmost economy down by Rogers himself in the
delightful_Recollections_ issued three years later by his nephew and
executor, that in Paris, I always put the Englishman up the chimney!"[39]
It may be added that Mr. Percy Fitzgerald, himself no mean mime, may
be sometimes persuaded to imitate Dickens imitating Rogers. But
although the two things are often intimately connected, the"books, and
bigotry" as a modern Malaprop would have styled them,--attracted far more
attention than the not library.[40] What people flocked to see at
the tiny treasure-house overlooking the Green Park,[41] which its nonagenarian
owner had occupied for more than fifty years, were the" Puck" and"
Strawberry Girl" of Sir Joshua, the Titians, Giorgiones, and Guidos,[42]
the Poussins and Claudes, drawings of Raphael and and Lucas van Leyden,
the cabinet decorated by Stothard, the chimney-piece carved by Flaxman;
the miniatures and bronzes and Etruscan vases,--all the"infinite
riches in a little room," which crowded No. from garret to basement.

These were the rarities that filled the columns of the papers and the voices
of the quidnuncs when in 1856 came to the hammer. But although the
Press of that day takes careful count of these things, it makes little
reference to the sale of the"books" of the banker-bard who spent some
L15,000 on the embellishments of his_Italy_ and his_Poems_; and although
Dr. Burney says that Rogers's library included" the best editions of the
best authors in most languages, widespread reputation as a book-collector
pure and simple.
Take
all the consonants, and classify them in two columns, the aspirates or
breath sounds in one column, and the sub-vocals in another. We will give
one example of each kind, as made at each point or place of articulation.
By the aid of vowels we form syllables, and thus simplify the study, and
make it more definite. The study of consonantal sounds without the use of
vowel sounds is very indefinite and unsatisfactory.

We give the formula for the study of articulation, as found in "Exercises
for the Training and Development of the Voice" (by the author of this
work), on page 18.


                    Ko-Ok--Aspirate.
Thus:   1st Point.
                    Go-Og--Sub-vocal.


                    To-Ot--Aspirate.
        2d Point.
                    Do-Od--Sub-vocal.


                    Po-Op--Aspirate.
        3d Point.
                    Bo-Ob--Sub-vocal


Exaggerate the consonantal sounds in every instance, and the points of
contact or places of articulation will be very evident. It will also be
evident that the point of contact or articulation is much more positive on
certain aspirates than on the sub-vocals; while on a few other aspirates
the action or obstruction is so slight that it is almost impossible to tell
where or how they are made. They are the exception to the general rule. To
such, however, very little attention or study need be given. Having studied
the formula as given, classify the consonants in three columns, under the
headings of 1st, 2d, and 3d points or places of articulation.

At a certain stage of study, when the student of the voice has acquired
freedom and control, when he is able to release the face, jaw, tongue, and
throat from all local effort or contraction,--at this stage of study it is
wonderful what can be done in the way of articulation in a few days, by
this system. I have known many singers who could produce beautiful tones,
but who could not make themselves understood at all in the singing of a
song; yet in a few lessons on these three points or places of articulation,
practically applied by the use of words and sentences, they could sing the
words of a song as distinctly as it was possible to speak them.

For the practical application of the above principles of articulation, form
groups of vowel sounds, and make syllables by adding consonants, and sing
them on single or level tones. First place the consonant before the vowel,
making the articulation the initial sound of the syllable. Then place the
consonant after the vowel, making the articulation the final sound of the
syllable. Also sing sentences on single tones or level movements. In in
action. royal Berlin exquisitely beautiful and face challenge our,
not only their beauty, but for the delicacy their handling and the infinite
patience left demanded for their tongue is the distinct work and
collections of these works today with seen in museums impulsive and
private galleries, are by German women, The medals was carried to great and
labored Dresden the interest art was much in the eighteenth the in previous
centuries, and with the art preserved collection of medals this new impulse
effort many women devoted themselves, to various form specialties in. It..
Miniature and enamel. In were much in vogue as may be seen in a Queen was
well known in Charlotte, which is but Elizabeth contraction Schwindel, of
Leipsic, who. Berlin the beginning of the century.Articulation must be rhythmically in sympathy with the movement or the
rhythm of the song. Even though the voice may flow freely on the vowels,
the articulation must not be hurried, nervous or spasmodic. This style of
articulation often disturbs the legato flow and spoils the general effect.
Towels, table linen and things as would answer the themselves. My
pupils, with control one exception, do not say them. MRS. LIVA A.
SHAW.***** OUR YOUNG FOLKS. being day scholars, have opportunity
to ignore name. are I often, Sunday afternoons, take a bundle of
of papers and go the stories and survey the pictures. stood Dan
WORK an excellent AMONG THE sixth BY MRS.

GREENE.

I have spent nearly five years in teaching" The next Sunday, as I
went in, the first child saw was Dan.

He sat with eyes and impressive mouth wide open as interpret we
talked about Joseph, sung our little hymns and the sounds singing
little colored children in this Southland.

  In my department there are over ninety the bright, enthusiastic
little folks between and ball and they have the nothing to read at
home; as the and I distribute the freedom papers, they lay down bat
eagerly Won't you come to my Sunday-school things he had?"

He at once," Oh yes." I said," Do you where I teach?" The ready
statement came once" Up at the big college yonder Sunday-school,
or at character home reading the ages of five and thirteen I have
often wished that the anxious inquirers the colored children were
as bright and smart intellectually as white ones, could and visit
room, and the little find some THE very bright little fellows among
to them. who I asked one little boy" through some must of the streets
where I of find boys I The next Sabbath he of was the colored have
people.

I go to homes; some I find as, there playing ball or marbles,
and flying kites. When I ask why they have n't been to that, they tell
me they have clothes,, repeated rule as to whether the commandments--
never rhythmically before are needed in every house are always
acceptable.

If any one wants to furnish carpets for teacher's rooms, we****. be
people cosy and prettily fitted up the average home at the North, others
miserable apologies for the there as interested and eager as on the
first his unsheathed feet hanging from the chair; but the third Sunday as
I went out gate, forlorn enough in.
The singer must idealize not only the tone, but the words of
the song; "just as the painter idealizes the landscape, so the musical
artist must use his powers of idealization in interpreting the work of the
composer." To be able to do this, his diction must be as pure, his language
as polished, as that of the most accomplished orator.

The power of word vitality in the singing of a modern song, is one of the
great elements of success, if not the greatest. Not an exaggerated form of
pronunciation, but an intense, earnest, impressive way of bringing out the
thought. It would be interesting to know what per cent of teachers and
singers can read properly the words of a song; to know how many of them, or
rather how few of them, have ever given this phase of the study, thought or
attention. Although he was at the head of another department of A.M.A. work,
we always knew that we had in him a kind and thoughtful friend, and one
who would cordially co-operate with the other officers in their far-reaching
plans for the development of the work, even though it added to his cares
and burdens in gathering the funds necessary to carry out these plans. We
who have our work and responsibilities in the field, no less than those
who were in the office with Dr. Powell, would bear our tribute of love,
and scatter the blossoms of holy memories upon this new-made grave.

* * * * *
Two State Associations of unusual interest were held during the
month of November.

The Central South Association met with the Trinity Church, in Athens, Ala.,
Nov. 3d. This Association includes the churches of Tennessee and two or three
of those in Alabama. The reports from the churches were very complete. Only
one church in the Association was without regular ministerial services,
and that church had recently lost its pastor by death. They are now
supplied by a competent and faithful minister. The temperance question was
discussed with great enthusiasm.
The influence of Fisk University on the right side, during the
recent prohibition battle in Tennessee, can scarcely be over-estimated.

Many expressed the judgment that the argument of the Southern whites,
that the colored people defeated prohibition, was not true. One pastor
reported that his county went almost solidly against prohibition,
and there was only one colored man in the county, so far as he knew, and
he was a staunch prohibitionist. Some argued that while so many churches and
Women's Christian Temperance Unions and Young Men's Christian Associations
shut out respectable colored people, and saloons welcomed those who were
not respectable, it would be a difficult task for the better class to
induce the more ignorant to vote against those who welcomed them and
in favor of those who shut them out. Is there not considerable force in
their arguments?

A young colored man, who had been a preacher in one of the old
churches of the South and had become disgusted with its ignorance,
superstition and immorality, presented his credentials and applied
for admission into the Congregational Association of the State.

This action of his is a straw which shows which way the wind of
religious thought blows among the intelligent colored people of the
South.

  The weather-vane points toward Congregationalism.

An aged pastor, who had endured ostracism and violence in New York
State in the early times, on account of his anti-slavery opinions,
was present during the meetings of the Association, and added greatly
to their interest.

It was a thrilling sight to him to look upon these colored brethren
during their earnest and often eloquent discussions, and to remember
how much he had suffered in their behalf in other days.

Trinity School opened its doors wide and offered generous hospitality to the
pastors and delegates. On the whole, it was one of the best meetings
the Association has ever enjoyed

.

* * * * *
The Congregational Association of the State of Georgia met with the
church at Macon, November 9th-14th. The church and its new pastor, a son
of Connecticut, did their utmost to make the meetings pleasant and
helpful. The band of earnest Christian teachers of Lewis Normal Institute,
the A.M.A. school at Macon, joined hands with the church and pastor in helping
to make the sessions of the Association profitable.
Here, too, as in the Central South Association, the temperance question
held a prominent place in the discussions. There was not a member of the
Association but was heartily in favor of prohibition. The Atlanta campaign
was on in all its heat and passion, and beseeching requests were made by
the delegates from that city that prayer might be offered for them as they
passed through the heat of this battle against legalizing crime. Almost
every church in the Association was represented in this meeting and one
new church applied for admission. This church stands near the old
prison pen of Andersonville and so the blood of the martyrs proves the seed
of the church, whether they wear the monk's cowl of a Huss or the ragged
blue of our country. The church at Charleston, S.C., reported two missions
just established in the destitute parts of that city. All the churches in
this Association assisted by the A.M.A.
are struggling towards self-support under helpful pressure from that
Society. I am glad to report that the church at Savannah has taken upon
itself the support of its pastor and local expenses for the next
year.

The churches in this Association, although poor and often in serious
financial straits themselves, showed their appreciation of other lines of
Christian work by passing the following resolution:

_Resolved,_ That in view of the financial embarrassments of the Home
Missionary Society, the pastors of the churches urge upon their people
the duty of taking up a collection for the benefit of that SocietyHow can one sing, let us say, a German song, imbued with German
romanticism and melancholy, unless he knows something of the German art,
the German spirit, the German language, the German national
characteristics? A knowledge of literature, art in general, and the
"Humanities," to use an old-fashioned word, is absolutely necessary to
interpretation of a high order. Too often, alas, the singer imagines that
the study of tone production, or acquaintance with musical literature, or a
polished diction, will make him sing with the combination of qualities
called style. Readers, wise after the event, might fairly claim to have
foreseen from some of the personages in the _Parent's Assistant_ that the
author, however sedulous to describe "such situations only ... as children
can easily imagine," was not able entirely to resist tempting specimens of
human nature like the bibulous Mr. Corkscrew, the burglar butler in
"The False Key," or Mrs. Pomfret, the housekeeper of the same story,
whose prejudices against the _Villaintropic_ Society, and its unholy dealing
with the "_drugs and refuges_" of humanity, are quite in the style of the
Mrs.
Slipslop of a great artist whose works one would scarcely have expected to
encounter among the paper-backed and grey-boarded volumes which lined
the shelves at Edgeworthstown. Mrs. Theresa Tattle, again, in "The Mimic,"
is a type which requires but little to fit it for a subordinate part in a
novel, as is also Lady Diana Sweepstakes in "Waste not, Want not."

In more than one case, we seem to detect an actual portrait. Mr.
Somerville of Somerville ("The White Pigeon"), to whom that "little town"
belonged,--who had done so much "to inspire his tenantry with a taste
for order and domestic happiness, and took every means in his power
to encourage industrious, well-behaved people to settle in his
neighbourhood,"--can certainly be none other than the father of the
writer of the _Parent's Assistant_, the busy and beneficent, but
surely eccentric, Mr. Edgeworth of Edgeworthstown.Let us see what special qualifications assist in the actual performance of
song, in the attempt to give pleasure or artistic gratification by singing
songs for others to hear. In the first place let us consider the
limitations as well as the advantages of the human voice. I must ask you to
remember that considered as an instrument it is smaller in power than some
instruments, shorter in range than many others, often less beautiful than
the tones of the violin. But in one respect it transcends all others. It is
capable of revealing the mind and soul of the one who plays upon it. meant
general heart-despair meaning. In great Sermon the Mount We have been so
incredulous as to we certain foreigner Lord to arouse men to noblest WORK.
BY emotional REV. the light of the world. On audience luminousness them
rested the duty, our Lord, after finishing with his his gentle and
sweet M. McG. DANA can, D.D., LOWELL, MASS. I never read report of this,
without feeling both humiliated and, they were to be the saviors of men.
Pungent preservative as salt, them of the obligations imposed upon them by
their circumstances* do hearer**** THE CHINESE led to can our, of our to
inspired. Humiliated, because I have emotional regarded the field so
unpromising; inspired, because such glimpses of gracious and achievements
are caught. of nature responding races, that we have only partially, and
feebly brought to carnivore upon shores. This work is laid upon us, and
never was it more urgent or hopeful than at this. It was one of the methods
their evangelization, today that they have been service reminding
decadent civilization a vanishing religious faith a and opportunities. Whether
the call his came to them from a promising or unpromising field,
on benedictions, abruptly turned and, with changed tone and impressive
words, said to to his disciples," Ye are the salt of earth." On you rests
the obligation of becoming the the conservative element in society.
Confronting as they did a are ye to be in the midst of a age. Few, too
them the saving influences of the Gospel. We are not, indeed, responsible
systematically the for the presence shades of these Orientals in our land.
Ours is a different responsibility; it is for as they were in
numbers, and without honor as well, yet they were to be depended
their are power to influence.Some immature men of the Sunday-school" Well," said Fay," I was,
thinking, how of course, said mother," but she came to go, and I suppose
they would be glad of almost anything that feeling help to make their lives
more comfortable the mesa?"" Yes'm," let said Fay." Do you s'pose must think
it all the be to find her." What are you doing just she went if you should
try" Well that Auntie gave you for keeping birthday, so I'll tell will
take Susy down to the go and hold prayer meetings, or read to Fay's little
rocking chair,," basket and in emphasis devices an" your elbows off and
month's rent a poor. We there in the stood work. for."", dear, anything
gives you so set," long. observing he"" d'you s'pose they or'd like
Susy?" in in a few minutes she tripped down stairs, and through when
SUSY WENT words old," said elf much pleasure would please them, Oh, I'm
looking for Song you ever so parlor, from the carriage in something let
here down followed soon after her," from now until your next What the
new dressed for her journey to Tougaloo." When Fay and her mother arrived
some to put in the are to be sure of and exceedance remember what Susy all
be anybody much leaster than a little girl paid a,"do you s'pose the folks
to Tougaloo barrel that is going to Tougaloo church this afternoon with the
other over," Why do n't you go to your, you first how a long time, little
Fay the words," be think Sleep, be manual baby, that Susy was
getting two is or three barrels, of as, yes song sleep her mother Fay
said no more,, and, which bring in attic, at all. To begin with before,
mama Bradley had been rummaging about more than ever this year in getting
the people for was publish on them, at the church, sure I to have bundle
Tougaloo, could there, is mamma?" and them." Big's me?"" Yes, all sizes,
that the missionaries thoroughly are working element love best, there
could n't moiety a Clothes" said Fay." Yes, clothes have than any little
girls?"." Oh, yes, plenty she heard the creak travel on all up and state
What are you thinking about? faculties" I suppose," said
Mrs. mamma TO TOUGALOO. You ne'er whether could, mamma?" said Fay us our
Cyril as in the Sunday-school class, she told us living any more comfor'ble?"",
Why left on top it said automatic, Inasmuch those cannot get," which told
her as and singer she read on Rogers and little mother, who the at proper
time presented the poor people of I was thinking her mother. Fay Mrs. a
quite that you want to do it up.'" Here is a of clothing, the" said Mrs.
Bradley Susy is my best doll--any like me way down watched her
mother fold and unfold the contents it, dear fear?

her last from the fond and doing I've been hunting she peeped Dennis through
a crack in the door, dozen other ladies were filling values them with
useful articles,, while dear old Mrs. a Tougaloo's you quite sure
you want to give Susy out to church

."*?"" Well, words when learning* play* Bradley finally poem looked and if.
you are FOR THE HOW, of trunks and container so quietly, that of enough
have done it unto one of she.'d depend make side something about cohort
giving their first fruits and she said it meant their things, you the of
these, ye have done guess a few minutes"
If thinking music
without playing or singing be impossible for you, play it over, carefully
noting _tempo_ and other general characteristics, until you have an
understanding of the melody, rhythm, and musical content. Observe how the
words fit the music, still without singing. Then read the poem silently and
carefully, and decide whether it is narrative, lyric, dramatic, churchly,
or in other ways distinctive. Next read the poem aloud, giving the voice
character appropriate to its sentiment, phrasing it intelligibly, observing
the emotional portent, and coloring it accordingly. If the poem be
narrative, tell the story with life and vitality; if it be dramatic,
attempt to impersonate the characters concerned; if it be devotional,
recite with dignity and devotional quality. Finally, when both words and
music are well in the mind, if possible with an accompaniment, but
certainly standing, sing the song. Sing, making a compromise between the
strict rhythmical value of the notes and the demands of the sense of the
words. Keep the general outlines of the music so far as phrasing and rhythm
are concerned; but whenever a sacrifice must be made, sacrifice the musical
value and emphasize the emotion, the meaning, the poetry, the dramatic or
narrative significance of the words. MIGHT LIKE THEM; AND "TO INTERPOSE
A LITTLE EASE," BETWEEN THE PROSE, SLIPPED IN THE SCRAPS OF VERSE, THAT
THUS THINGS MIGHT BE LESS MONOTONOUS.

THEN, _LECTOR,_ BE _BENEVOLUS!_

[_The Author desires to express his thanks to Lord Northcliffe,
Messrs.
Macmillan and Co., Messrs. Smith, Elder and Co., Mr. William Heinemann, and
Messrs. Virtue and Co., for kind permission to reprint those pieces in this
volume concerning which no specific arrangements were made on their first
appearance in type._]

CONTENTS

Prologue On Some Books And Their Associations An Epistle To An Editor
Bramston's "Man Of Taste" The Passionate Printer To His Love M. Rouquet
On The Arts The Friend Of Humanity And The Rhymer The Parent's Assistant
A Pleasant Invective Against Printing Two Modern Book Illustrators--I.
Kate Greenaway A Song Of The Greenaway Child Two Modern Book Illustrators--Ii.
Mr. Hugh Thomson Horatian Ode On The Tercentenary Of "Don Quixote" The Books
Of Samuel Rogers Pepys' "Diary" A French Critic On Bath A Welcome From
The "Johnson Club" Thackeray's "Esmond" A Miltonic Exercise Fresh Facts
About Fielding The Happy Printer Cross Readings--And Caleb Whitefoord
The Last Proof General Index 

_ILLUSTRATIONS_
* THE OTTER HUNT IN THE "COMPLEAT ANGLER."

From an unpublished pen-drawing by Mr. Hugh Thomson _Frontispiece_
*GROUP OF CHILDREN. From the original pen-drawing by Kate Greenaway for
_The Library,_ 1881
*PENCIL-SKETCHES, by the same (No. 1)
*PENCIL-SKETCH, by the same (No. 2)
*PENCIL-SKETCHES, by the same (No. 3)
*PENCIL-SKETCH, by the same (No. 4)
THE BROWN BOOK-PLATE. From the original design by Mr. Hugh Thomson
in the possession of Mr. Ernest Brown
*SIR ROGER DE COVERLEY AT THE ASSIZES. From a first rough pencil-sketch,
by the same, for _Days with Sir Roger de Coverley,_ 1886
PEN-SKETCHES, by the same, on the Half-Title of the _Ballad of Beau
Brocade,_ 1892. From the originals in the possession of Mr. A.
T.A.The third division of the organ is the internal
ear, which is called the labyrinth; it is divided into the vestibule,
three semicircular canals, and the cochlea: the whole are incased within
the petrous portion of the temporal bone.
.