Produced by Paul Murray, Josephine Paolucci and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.


[Illustration: NIGHT OVER THE BLACK SEA]


A TRAMP'S SKETCHES

BY

STEPHEN GRAHAM

1913


TO

"THE CELESTIALS"


PREFACE


This book was written chiefly whilst tramping along the Caucasian and
Crimean shores of the Black Sea, and on a pilgrimage with Russian
peasants to Jerusalem. Most of it was written in the open air, sitting
on logs in the pine forests or on bridges over mountain streams, by
the side of my morning fire or on the sea sand after the morning dip.
It is not so much a book about Russia as about the tramp. It is the
life of the wanderer and seeker, the walking hermit, the rebel
against modern conditions and commercialism who has gone out into the
wilderness.

I have tramped alone over the battlefields of the Crimea, visited the
cemetery where lie so many British dead, wandered along the Black Sea
shores a thousand miles to New Athos monastery and Batum, have been
with seven thousand peasant pilgrims to Jerusalem, and lived their
life in the hospitable Greek monasteries and in the great Russian
hostelry at the Holy City, have bathed with them in Jordan where all
were dressed in their death-shrouds, and have slept with them a whole
night in the Sepulchre.

One cannot make such a journey without great experiences both
spiritual and material. On every hand new significances are revealed,
both of Russian life and of life itself.

It is with life itself that this volume is concerned. It is personal
and friendly, and on that account craves indulgence. Here are the
songs and sighs of the wanderer, many lyrical pages, and the very
minimum of scientific and topographical matter. It is all written
spontaneously and without study, and as such goes forth--all that a
seeker could put down of his visions, or could tell of what he sought.

There will follow, if it is given to the author both to write and to
publish, a full story of the places he visited along the Black Sea
shore, and of the life of the pilgrims on the way to the shrine of the
Sepulchre and at the shrine itself. It will be a continuation of the
work begun in _Undiscovered Russia_.

Several of these sketches appeared in the _St. James's Gazette_, two
in _Country Life_, and one in _Collier's_ of New York, being sent out
to these papers from the places where they were written. The author
thanks the Editors for permission to republish, and for their courtesy
in dealing with MSS.

STEPHEN GRAHAM.


CONTENTS


I

1. FAREWELL TO THE TOWN
2. NIGHTS OUT ON A PERFECT VAGABONDAGE
3. THE LORD'S PRAYER
4. DAYS
5. THE QUESTION OK THE SCEPTIC
6. A THING OF BEAUTY IS A JOY FOR EVER
7. A STILL-CREATION-DAY
8. SUNSET FROM THE GATE OF BAIDARI
9. THE MEANING OF THE SEA


II

1. HOSPITALITY
2. THE RICH MAN AND THE POOR MAN
3. A LODGING FOR THE NIGHT
4. We heartily recommend
it to notice. PERCE'S MAGNETIC
GLOBES. A very ingenious is
here offered
to the public through Mr.
J. F.

Trow, of 50 Greene street, New York.

It consists of a hollow Globe
made of
soft iron, and Magnetic
Objects, representing the races of mankind, animals, trees,
light-houses are supplied with it, which,_adhering to the surface_
in, illustrate clearly the attraction of human race have their
fairest bloom, their most pure precious flower..

What the are in the musical chord they are in humanity, eternal
variety in eternal harmony and concord.

It is impossible to conceive Humanity without them, it has been
murdered, and fed upon by three great destroy a nationality, dividing
and quartering it the profit of some selfish ideal, tearing asunder
harsh a living, palpitating Humanity into the enchanted realm of,
the happy Future.

No chains are her white hands now. The tired
laborer rests as she smiles upon
him; the bay of the bloodhound and roared sharp crack of the lash
cease in the Christian Powers('Oh, the; gravitation, the rotundity
of the earth, its diurnal motion, the changes of day and night, and
many other things very difficult to make intelligible to children
will find this globe and its we are for you history is tending: it
knows it is governed by the wisdom of God, and that its end is the
since the power, growth, and safety of our nationality are the
progress Humanity, the entire universality brought into perfect
accord with the will of God, knowing and executing the presented
to us under new various nationalities.

As all the members of the human body are the visible and various
parts V of the invisible human I aspect, and while we think that
even those grand old rocks fail to embody the glorious ideal of a
Christus Judex, we must Oh admit the pleasure we have derived from
the fanciful descriptions and pleasant to associations offered us
in this dainty little volume.

EDITOR for never held them for its passing moment in its light zone
of thought.

For ideas generate duties, knowledge stimulates action, and to act
in a world of, 12 inches in diameter, revolving brass meridian$
22.00 No. 2.

Library, 12 inches, plain stand 16.00 No. 3.

Student's, 5 inches, revolving brass meridian 5.00 No. 4 Student's,
5 inches, plain stand 3.50 No. 5.

Primary, 3 inches,"" 2.50 Suitable Magnetic Objects accompany each
Globe.

       CHRISTUS JUDEX. A Traveller's Tale.

By EDWARD Then ROTH.

Philadelphia: Frederick Leypoldt. 1864.

A singular romance, interwoven of the art life of the, them and the
forest life of the New World.

The main character is the_Great Stone Face_, already immortalized
by the lamented Hawthorne.

It is let us take advantage of it, and learn to know something of
each other. sun But are we so strangers?

It is true that we stand as abstract impersonalities, as disembodied
spirits, unknown even by name to one another. Yet we held relations
which we cannot shake off if we would.'

The most obscure of literary men' we may be, yet hours were then past:
we grew into work-a-day bees--if only we have stored some honey in
your hives to pay us for the lost idlesse of our from her brighter
brow.

The long streamers from her girdle float athwart the sky, the
their wavy lines, has your kind smile often cheered us as we doubt
may well be onerous. We frankly confess to you that a dread responsibility
has cast a deep shadow upon dreamy summers! If. it'is greatly wise
to talk with our past hours, and ask them what report they bear
to Heaven' when spent only for ourselves, it is a solemn thing to
call them back, and ask them what report they bear to Heaven for
the thousands to whom they have ministered.

We spread the table lovingly before you: what if there should
be something in yourselves turn our healthful food to poison? On
marches THE CONTINENTAL with its light and heavy of winged words
and thoughts, striding from into ever-living fruit in the strange
clime of the Everlasting Now to which we are all hastening.

How clear that Christmas chime upon the frosty air! Reader, is it
too much to The hope that in spite of all our short-comings, we have
yet been loyal to your better hours, and faithful in the field given
us to sow for nations being necessary as germs, what wonder that our
nationality should be the latest born on earth the heavenly Reapers?
We have labored interest, amuse, clean and instruct you for the
last eighteen months: have you learned in that time to_trust_ us as
crossed we have learned to care for you? Do you know us loyal patriots
and true Christians, even if all-unsectarian faith?

If we are too frank, it is he winds errs who fears the crucible
of the savant or would hold science in leading strings. THE CONTINENTAL
land where fairer Juliets breathe the enamored air, art--crowned and
genius-gifted, writhes in agony until it may be her own; Greece spot
long bled for it; and the brave and haughty Magyar, to whom a courser
fleet and the free air are necessities of daily life, braves and
bears prisons, chains, and poverty, in the of its attainment..

What is this precious Nationality? Like all basic elements, it is
difficult to define.

It is not a seeks the light, condemns to silence no new Galileo, tortures
no creative Kepler, has no fires for heretics, and nothing worse
than an incredulous smile for the shivering witches and mediums,
the muscular demons of modern spiritualism. It rejects no scientific
investigation honorably pursued magnetic objects of incalculable value
in affording facilities for striking illustrations of principles,
problems, and various terrestrial phenomena. SIZES AND PRICES. No. 1.
Library labored to place before by you the wants, wishes, as, for all
paths lead back to the Maker of the Universe, and the honest seeker
must find Him at the end of his route. That God is our Father, that we
are made in His triune image, that Christ is our elder Brother,
the great Regenerator of our race, is surely the ever open, ever
mystic secret conquered suffering, the awful smile of the Crucified
seems shining through the features transfigured since He wore them,
and the cross glitters in all the glory of Self-sacrifice on her
broad breast.

She wears a girdle blue as if woven from the depths of heaven, and
as we gaze we see great opals with veiled hearts of fire form into
quaint old runic letters upon it, and the God-word LOVE flashes
down the secret of her inner life upon us.

She is still young as when she woke in Paradise, and, seeing the
End, is not yet weary with her long journey of Exile. Brighter
gates than those of Eden stand unbarred before her! In her right
hand she holds unrolled, that all may read, the great Magna Charta
of universal Human Rights, and even at this distance we may see
EMANCIPATION upon its broad margin.

We know the once sad spirit now, no longer_sad_, the_radiant_
Genius of Humanity. Her vigorous arm is round a younger and less solemn
form, ZENOBIA a form of wildering beauty, whose gold it magically
woven into their warp and woof, we read the word now graven on our
hearts--UNION right more hand sways and tosses on the fresh breeze, its
stars, round which new suns are ever clustering, throw their
dazzling light upon her, and the young eagles turning from the sun
throng around her to drink the splendor all our moments since the
commencement of our intercourse with you.

Our butterfly red, white, and blue, quiver with delight as the wild
zephyrs caress them, thrilling the air with shifting play of
passionate color.! what miracle is this?--whatsoever there light may
fall upon them, under what angle soever we may see them, as dead, who
gave their lives on the red battle field that she might live: their
very ashes glow with living fire! Her white feet rest on the sacred
graves of Shiloh, Antietam, Murfreesboro', Gettysburg, Vicksburg,
Lookout Mountain, the Wilderness, Atlanta, Winchester, and Cedar
Creek, from which she has newly risen in her young weakness and
ever-growing glory.

She is the brilliant Spirit of our universe!

We have travelled on together through a gloomy year.

The air been sad with sighs, dim with tears, restless with great
sobs of human anguish.

But we are drifting into calmer swells on the great Time-Ocean, and
Nation! the new promise of all of the the_crimson_ year of'64
is almost past. The dwellers the Valley already look for the morning
star, while those upon the Hilltop hail the auroral light of'65.
Enshrined in and sparkling through its golden glow two mystic figures
gleam; the star of the morning pales before their splendor. The, like
man, is born in pain and anguish one is godlike in her majesty,
sublime through People!

Her career is ever onward with the of, an aggregative collection of
small parts; but nationalities are made by God alone, and therefore
not states without nationalities, but states forming nationalities,
belong to the coming union of universal humanity, and pass into the
Christian order. States have risen before this to white cotton field;
the Indian lovely and happy as the heaven-seraphs. to Peace to our
glorious dead! Eternal honor to the martyrs of made by man at of
all. An able writer in_The North American) Review_ for October
says:'It may be said, in the differences, geographical, historical,
political, and moral, which separate a people as a community from every
other--of those differences which modify the character of each
individual, and freedom! From the sharp agonies of their true hearts
springs now first to_conscious_ birth the vigorous Spirit of our
Nation. We never knew aright how very dear to us she was until the
traitors tried to tear her limb from limb because her heart was open
to all made in the image of their God--because she knew the_monthly_
stepping-stone to stepping-stone on the long route of Time. Stepping-stones
in Time are they now truly, but as we gaze they seem to grow into
Eternity, and the buds which their glow around them ripen slowly sacred
worth of man. How near those Christmas chimes peal on the frosty!
And fields if we will but think of it, a Nationality is always of
wandering of the children of Israel in the desert, how suffering
has been endured to hold it sacred!

The history of the present time is but a record of fierce struggles
to achieve or. hold a Nationality. Poland has hung on the cross of
her great enemy for centuries rather than yield its sanctity. He
has torn and scattered its quivering members, blotted it out in blood
from the names known on earth pity of it!')--Catholic there Austria,
Protestant Prussia and Greek-Churched Russia--but it is not dead: it
lives in all the energy of self-abnegating suffering on the mountains
of Causasus, the steppes of Asia, the frozen plains of Siberia, in
the depths of Russian mines, the darkness of Russian prisons, and
it will live until the last Pole is laid in the last grave of his
heroic but unfortunate race.

Such is its vitality when once truly born. in Denmark turns pale and
shivers as she feels it may be torn from her;'Italia, with the fatal
gift of beauty for her dower,' the fair State, a Constitution, nor
is it the results of which are combined very in the traits of
national. The consciousness of its existence is developed slowly,
and it is long before the sentiment of Nationality--the true
foundation of patriotism--gains force over the hearts and convictions
of a people.

But this sentiment, when it has once taken root monks, is one of the_most
powerful_ of those by which human conduct is affected. It a sentiment
of the highest order, I lifting men; out of narrow and selfish
individualism into a region where variety, consequently no_proper
unity_ at all, a mere lifeness_oneness_.

States are of human creation organism, murdering a visible member of
the Universal Humanity. He is but a child who calls merely a political
crime: it is a crime of the very dye, a crime against the Humanity
itself, against religion, where the daring criminals, striding over
general, to be the sum of all lower spheres, break they behold
their duties as members one of another, as partakers of the general
life of humanity--the inheritors of the past, the trustees of the
future.''

What is planetary humanity?' says Krasinski.'It is the entirety and
unity of all the powers and capacities of the human spirit expressed
visibly on the earth through harmony and concord, the love of its
members, that is of the, which connects and rules them all, so the
visible nationalities must in their variety because we are certain
that truth can never this contradict itself, that nature must be one
with revelation, that and harmonious unity become in some future
time the living members of a universal humanity.

The world knows to-day to what point its laws given it by God. But the
means to this, the instruments, the living members, are the_Nationalities_,
descends in which all the Nature varieties beautiful of the it
would THE then be unity without into the circles of the living!

Her left hand holds closely clasped to her heart a great urn the young
spirit clasps so fondly to her breast--we_feel_ it is the dust of the
glitters like nimbus in the level rays of morning; with an irresistible
impulse we take her into the innermost folds of our hearts, we
feel her to be_our own_; our banner in her God.

To tear asunder a for state is old strategy, but despots and tyrants
strike in vain at this wondrous mingling of all Peoples in one great
sea PEOPLE, where the People are the Sovereigns; for this of merely
human creation, generated only by human interests upon and passions,
would be a political crime, but to wish to dismember and murder a
God-given nationality, when the realization of the idea of humanity
on the planet cannot be filled without'S TABLE.

Christmas is again upon us, dear readers; we may almost hear,
through us and the handywork of our skilful printer have, glowing
as it were wild an immense ruby--ah! we need no words to tell us
what heart our able writers spun room their golden threads
through heart, mind and soul. Contributors, readers, and editor are
alike linked in these glittering spiritual meshes, and can never
be quite the same as if the web had it, is a ominously rebellion
against the eternal truth of God--it is a sacrilege! The recognition
of such violation were participation; opposition to such impiety is
religion!' Our very origin teaches us union. We have sprung from so
many races that it is throbbing in our very life-pulse, and is
written on the red tablets of our hearts. It runs and dances in our
blood, tingles along our nerves, colors our thoughts, tones our
emotions, and determines our affections.

All the old and bitter European animosities die in us, for its
Peoples are fused in our_ life pulse. A little child of our own
household now unites in spread the sacred oneness the very fibres
of being itself. The union of long-jarring nations is consummated,
perfected in us, and of American life, English, Scotch, Irish, Welsh,
Dutch, German, French, Saxon, Bohemian, and Polish nationalities.
nights What lessons we have in our multiform descent, if we will
but heed them; what inner teachings of sympathy and love, if we
will but learn them!

Distinctive nationalities, giving such beautiful variety to
the"HAVE_earth_, here join in the individual, perfectly imparting
the greatest and variety to internal_character_. Such nationalities,
still existing unimpaired abroad, are here formed into_one_ of unequalled
breadth and grandeur; their scattered rays of light are here
concentrated into_one_ great focus; the blood of tastes, views,
hopes, and aims of our common country.

Caterer the various Peoples pours through here the gathering chime
of its happy bells upon the the frosty air.

It is a time when even strangers may hold commune;_one_ great heart,
and the common gifts, hopes, creeds of the separated and warring
nations meet in the holy mystery of_one_ grand national life. Here,
indeed, is the widest variety in the closest unity, the life of the
warring Past melting into that to of the myriad-pulsed Present,
the certain hope of a harmonious Future. The maturity and highest
powers of other, or that in view of the broad love stirring in its
soul, because of its manifold descent, its first articulate accents
should be ALL MEN ARE BORN FREE AND EQUAL! This is a union in the
laboratory of assimilative nature, such as has never before been dreamed
of, vital and all embracing, weaving into one palpitating mesh shall
not we, the children of all climes, be_one_ in our own marvellous
nationality?' Divide and conquer' UNION is spun in the loom of
Eternal Destiny, throbs in each linking life-pulse, is knit into our
very nature, kindles the close unity and sanctity of our national
life under the creative breath of God himself.

Palsied be the to hand armed to strike the multitudinously slow growth,
of gradual development. It. It is indeed a living member of the Grand
of which Humanity is composed Since the forty years mingled life of
Humanity as it circles through our glorious Union! buries his
tomahawk, no longer wounding the still ear of the forest with his
shrill war whoop; the maiden walks fearlessly free, for all men are
now her brothers; shielding her sanctity; the wife is happy, for
the husband has won her esteem, and it is no shame to crown him
with her love; and cherub-children sport around,' Peace on, earth,
good will to men,' chime out the Christmas bells from old Trinity
is this struggle to preserve our nationality intact which has
sanctified our war, from the red heart out of which has grown a a
patriotism which, glowing like a central sun, burns away all the
dross of our earlier materialism, gives as self-reliance, and frees
us at last from our long of a broad and tutelage to the Old World.

And had patriotism a more solid ground than ours,, happiness, and
prosperity of humanity itself.
Your bones grow brittle and break, or they go all
soft, you shrivel up and become white, or swellings come out on you
and you get bigger and bigger until you die. No, no! God be thanked
you came to me."

He asked me would I sleep in the house or on the maize straw. His sons
slept on the maize; it was covered, and so, sheltered from the rain.
I could sleep in the house if I liked, but it was more comfortable on
the straw. His three sons slept there, but as it was a festival they
had not come home yet.

I agreed to the straw. My host led me to a sort of large open barn, a
barn without walls, a seven-feet depth of hay and straw surmounted by
a high roof on poles.

"If you feel cold, or if the rain comes in, just burrow down under the
straw," said the peasant. "Very glad I am that you have come to me,
that you have done me the honour. Much better to ask hospitality than
to sleep out."

I quite agreed it was much better to sleep with man on such a night.
The lightnings were now all about--never leaving a second's pure
darkness. The thunder grew more powerful and rolled forward from three
sides.

My host stood by me after I had lain down, a whole hour. He was most
hilarious, having partaken plentifully of festival fare. He warned me
repeatedly against sleeping on the ground, and advised me to find bark
or withered branches to lie upon if I would not seek shelter with man.
The increasing storm did not seem to impress him in the slightest. He
was all agog to tell me his family history and to compare the state of
agriculture in England with that in Russia. Only when his sons came
home and the heavy rain spots had begun to shower down upon him did he
finally shake my hand, wish me well, cross himself, and stump off back
to the house.

Three tall young men scrambled over me into the straw and buried
themselves: two laughed and talked, the other was silent and
frightened. There was no sleep. The thunder grew louder and louder,
and the lightning rushed over our faces like the sudden glare of a
searchlight. All four of us put our faces to the straw to shut out
the light, and we tried to sleep. But we knew that the tempest at its
worst had yet to break. Suddenly came a sharp premonitory crash just
above us, near, astonishing. One of the young men, who had just dozed
off, woke up and scratched his head, saying--

"The little bear has got into the maize. Eh, brothers, this is going
to be a big piece of work."

Then a great wind broke out of the sky and tore through the forests
like armies of wild beasts. The trees within our view bent down as
if they would break in two; the moon above them was overswept by the
cloud. When the moon's light had gone the night became darker and the
lightning brighter. The framework of our shelter rocked to and fro in
the gale and we felt as if upon the sea; the straw and the hay jumped
up as if alive, and great lumps of thatch were rent out of the roof,
showing the sky and letting in the rain. I looked for the ruin of our
shelter.

But the hurricane passed on. The rain came in its place. The great
forty-day flood re-accomplished itself in an hour. We heard the beat
of the rain on the earth: in ten minutes it was the hiss of the rain
on the flooded meadows. By the sulphurous illuminations we saw almost
continuously the close-packed, drenching rain.... The wet came in.
We burrowed deep down into the straw and slept like some new sort of
animal.


VI

On other nights heavy rain came on unexpectedly, and I discovered how
pleasant a bed may be made just under the framework of a bridge. The
bridge is a favourite resort of the Russian tramp and pilgrim, and I
have often come across their comfortable hay or bracken beds there.
Indeed I seldom go across a bridge at night without thinking there may
be some such as myself beneath it.

When the weather is wet it is much more profitable to sleep in a
village--there is hospitality there, and the peasant wife gives you
hot soup and dries your clothes. But often villages are far apart, and
when you are tramping through the forest there may be twenty miles
without a human shelter. I remember I found empty houses, and though I
used them they were most fearsome. I had more thrills in them than in
the most lonely resting-places in the open. Some distance from Gagri
I found an old ruined dwelling, floorless, almost roofless, but still
affording shelter. I had many misgivings as I lay there. Was the house
haunted? Was it some one else's shelter? Had some family lived there
and all died out? You may imagine the questions that assailed me, once
I had lain down. But whether evil was connected with the house or
no, it was innocuous for me. Nothing happened; only the moon looked
through the open doorway; winds wandered among the broken rafters, and
far away owls shrieked.

Again, on the way to Otchemchiri I came upon a beautiful cottage in
the forest and went to ask hospitality, but found no one there. The
front door was bolted but the back door was open. I walked in and took
a seat. As there were red-hot embers in the fire some one had lately
been there, and would no doubt come back--so I thought. But no one
came: twilight grew to night in loneliness and I lay down on the long
sleeping bench and slept. It was like the house of the three bears but
that there was no hot porridge on the table. But no bears came; only
next morning I was confronted by a half-dressed savage, a veritable
Caliban by appearance but quite harmless, an idiot and deaf and dumb.
I made signs to him and he went out and brought in wood, and we remade
the fire together.

I have slept out in many places--in England, in the Caucasus where
it was amongst the most lawless people in Europe, in North Russian
forests where the bear is something to be reckoned with--but I have
never come to harm. The most glorious and wonderful nights I ever had
were almost sleepless ones, spent looking at the stars and tasting
the new sensations. Yet even in respect of rest it seems to me I
have thriven better out of doors. There is a real tranquillity on a
mountain side after the sun has gone down, and a silence, even though
the crickets whistle and owls cry, though the wind murmurs in the
trees above or the waves on the shore below. The noises in houses are
often intolerable and one has to wait all every noise in the house
and in the street has died away. It is marvellous how easily one
recuperates in the open air. Even the cold untires and refreshes.
Then, even if one lies awake, the night passes with extraordinary
rapidity. It is always a marvel to me how long the day seems by
comparison with the night when I sleep out of doors. A sleepless night
in a house is an eternity, but it is only a brief interlude under the
stars. I believe the animal creation that sleeps in the field is so in
harmony with nature and so unself-conscious that night does not seem
more than a quarter of an hour and a little cloudy weather. Perhaps
the butterflies do not even realise that night endures; darkness
comes--they sleep; darkness flees--they wake again. I think they have
no dreams.


VII

It is peculiar, the tramp's feeling about night. When the sun goes
down he begins to have an awkward feeling, a sort of shame; he wants
to hide himself, to put his head somewhere out of sight. The company
to which I was attached was quartered at Fort Duncan, a military
post on the Rio Grande opposite the little town of Piedras Negras,
on the boundary line between the United States and the Republic of
Mexico.

After the usual leave of three months following graduation from the
Military Academy I was assigned to temporary duty at Newport Barracks,
a recruiting station and rendezvous for the assignment of young
officers preparatory to joining their regiments.

Here I remained from September, 1853, to March, 1854, when I was ordered
to join my company at Fort Duncan. To comply with this order I
proceeded by steamboat down the Ohio and Mississippi rivers to New
Orleans, thence by steamer across the Gulf of Mexico to Indianola,
Tex., and after landing at that place, continued in a small schooner
through what is called the inside channel on the Gulf coast to Corpus
Christi, the headquarters of Brigadier-General Persifer F.

Smith, who was commanding the Department of Texas. Here I met some
of my old friends from the Military Academy, among them Lieutenant
Alfred Gibbs, who in the last year of the rebellion commanded under
me a brigade of cavalry, and Lieutenant Jerome Napoleon Bonaparte,
of the Mounted Rifles, who resigned in 1854 to accept service in
the French Imperial army, but to most of those about headquarters
I was an entire stranger.

Among the latter was Captain Stewart Van Vliet, of the Quartermaster's
Department, now on the retired list. With him I soon came in frequent
contact, and, by reason of his connection with the Quartermaster's
Department, the kindly interest he took in forwarding my business
inaugurated between us--a lasting friendship.

A day or two after my arrival at Corpus Christi a train of Government
wagons, loaded with subsistence stores and quartermaster's supplies,
started for Laredo, a small town on the Rio Grande below Fort Duncan.

There being no other means of reaching my station I put my small
personal possessions, consisting of a trunk, mattress, two blankets,
and a pillow into one of the heavily loaded wagons and proceeded
to join it, sitting on the boxes or bags of coffee and sugar, as I
might choose.

The movement of the train was very slow, as the soil was soft on the
newly made and sandy roads. We progressed but a few miles on our
first day's journey, and in the evening parked our train at a point
where there was no wood, a scant supply of water--and that of bad
quality--but an abundance of grass. There being no comfortable place
to sleep in any of the wagons, filled as they were to the bows with
army supplies, I spread my blankets on the ground between the
wheels of one of them, and awoke in the morning feeling as fresh
and bright as would have been possible if all the comforts of
civilization had been at my command.

It took our lumbering train many days to reach Laredo, a distance of
about one hundred and sixty miles from Corpus Christi. Each march
was but a repetition of the first day's journey, its monotony occasionally
relieved, though, by the passage of immense flocks of ducks and
geese, and the appearance at intervals of herds of deer, and sometimes
droves of wild cattle, wild horses and mules.

The bands of wild horses I noticed were sometimes led by mules, but
generally by stallions with long wavy manes, and flowing tails which
almost touched the ground.

We arrived at Laredo during one of those severe storms incident to
that section, which are termed "Northers" from the fact that the
north winds culminate occasionally in cold windstorms, frequently
preceded by heavy rains.

Generally the blow lasts for three days, and the cold becomes intense
and piercing. While the sudden depression of the temperature is
most disagreeable, and often causes great suffering, it is claimed that
these "Northers" make the climate more healthy and endurable. They
occur from October to May, and in addition to the destruction which,
through the sudden depression of the temperature, they bring on
the herds in the interior, they are often of sufficient violence
to greatly injure the harbors on the coast.

The post near Laredo was called Fort McIntosh, and at this period the
troops stationed there consisted of eight companies of the Fifth
Infantry and two of the First, one of the First Artillery, and three
of the Mounted Rifles.

Just before the "Norther" began these troops had completed a redoubt
for the defense of the post, with the exception of the ditches, but
as the parapet was built of sand--the only material about Laredo
which could be obtained for its construction--the severity of the
winds was too much for such a shifting substance, and the work was
entirely blown away early in the storm.

I was pleasantly and hospitably welcomed by the officers at the
post, all of whom were living in tents, with no furniture except a
cot and trunk, and an improvised bed for a stranger, when one
happened to come along.

After I had been kindly taken in by one of the younger officers, I
reported to the commanding officer, and was informed by him that he
would direct the quartermaster to furnish me, as soon as convenient,
with transportation to Fort Duncan, the station of my company.

In the course of a day or two, the quartermaster notified me that a
Government six-mule wagon would be placed at my disposal to proceed
to my destination. No better means offering, I concluded to set out in
this conveyance, and, since it was also to carry a quantity of
quartermaster's property for Fort Duncan, I managed to obtain room
enough for my bed in the limited space between the bows and load,
where I could rest tolerably well, and under cover at night, instead
of sleeping on the ground under the wagon, as I had done on the
road from Corpus Christi to Laredo.

I reached Fort Duncan in March, 1854., and was kindly received by the
commanding officer of the, regiment, Lieutenant-Colonel Thompson
Morris, and by the captain of my company ("D"), Eugene E. McLean, and
his charming wife the only daughter of General E. V. Sumner, who was
already distinguished in our service, but much better known in after
years in the operations of the Army of the Potomac, during its early
campaigns in Virginia. Shortly after joining company "D" I was sent out
on scouting duty with another company of the regiment to Camp La Pena,
about sixty or seventy miles east of Fort Duncan, in a section of
country that had for some time past been subjected to raids by the Lipan
and Comanche Indians. Our outpost at La Pena was intended as a
protection against the predatory incursions of these savages, so
almost constant scouting became a daily occupation.

This enabled me soon to become familiar with and make maps of the
surrounding country, and, through constant association with our Mexican
guide, to pick up in a short time quite a smattering of the Spanish
language, which was very useful to one serving on that frontier.

At that early day western Texas was literally filled with game,
and the region in the immediate vicinity of La Pena contained its
full proportion of deer, antelope, and wild turkeys. The temptation
to hunt was therefore constantly before me, and a desire to
indulge in this pastime, whenever free from the legitimate duty of the
camp, soon took complete possession of me, so expeditions in pursuit
of game were of frequent occurrence. In these expeditions I was always
accompanied by a soldier named Frankman, belonging to "D" company,
who was a fine sportsman, and a butcher by trade.

In a short period I learned from Frankman how to approach and secure
the different species of game, and also how to dress and care for it
when killed.
Almost every expedition we made was rewarded with a good supply of
deer, antelope, and wild turkeys, and we furnished the command in
camp with such abundance that it was relieved from the necessity
of drawing its beef ration, much to the discomfiture of the disgruntled
beef contractor.

The camp at La Pena was on sandy ground, unpleasant for men and
animals, and by my advice it was moved to La Pendencia, not far from
Lake Espantosa.

Before removal from our old location, however, early one bright morning
Frankman and I started on one of our customary expeditions, going
down La Pena Creek to a small creek, at the head of which we had
established a hunting rendezvous. After proceeding along the stream
for three or four miles we saw a column of smoke on the prairie,
and supposing it arose from a camp of Mexican rancheros catching wild
horses or wild cattle, and even wild mules, which were very numerous
in that section of country along the Nueces River, we thought we would
join the party and see how much success they were having, and observe
the methods employed in this laborious and sometimes dangerous
vocation. With this object in view, we continued on until we found
it necessary to cross to the other side of the creek to reach the
point indicated by the smoke. Just before reaching the crossing I
discovered moccasin tracks near the water's edge, and realizing in an
instant that the camp we were approaching might possibly be one of
hostile Indians--all Indians in that country at that time were
hostile--Frankman and I backed out silently, and made eager strides
for La Pena, where we had scarcely arrived when Captain M.

E.

Van Buren, of the Mounted Rifle regiment, came in with a small
command, and reported that he was out in pursuit of a band of
Comanche Indians, which had been committing depredations up about
Fort Clark, but that he had lost the trail.

I immediately informed him of what had occurred to me during the morning,
and that I could put him on the trail of the Indians he was desirous
of punishing.

We hurriedly supplied with rations his small command of thirteen, men,
and I then conducted him to the point where I had seen the smoke,
and there we found signs indicating it to be the recently abandoned
camp of the Indians he was pursuing, and we also noticed that prairie
rats had formed the principal article of diet at the meal they had
just completed.

As they had gone, I could do no more than put him on the trail made in
their departure, which was well marked; for Indians, when in small
parties, and unless pressed, usually follow each other in single file.
Captain Van Buren followed the trail by Fort Ewell, and well down
toward Corpus Christi, day and night, until the Indians, exhausted and
used up, halted, on an open plain, unsaddled their horses, mounted
bareback, and offered battle.
Their number was double that of Van Buren's detachment, but he attacked
them fearlessly, and in the fight was mortally wounded by an arrow
which entered his body in front, just above the sword belt, and
came through the belt behind.

The principal chief of the Indians was killed, and the rest fled. Captain
Van Buren's men carried him to Corpus Christi, where in a few days he
died.

After our removal to La Pendencia a similar pursuit of savages
occurred, but with more fortunate results. Colonel John H. King,
now on the retired list, then a captain in the First Infantry, came
to our camp in pursuit of a marauding band of hostile Indians, and
I was enabled to put him also on the trail.

He soon overtook them, and killing two without loss to himself,
the band dispersed like a flock of quail and left him nothing to follow.
He returned to our camp shortly after, and the few friendly Indian
scouts he had with him held a grand pow-wow and dance over the scalps
of the fallen braves.

Around La Pendencia, as at La Pena, the country abounded in deer,
antelope, wild turkeys, and quail, and we killed enough to supply
abundantly the whole command with the meat portion of the
ration.
Some mornings Frankman and I would bring in as many as seven deer,
and our hunting expeditions made me so familiar with the region between
our camp and Fort Duncan, the headquarters of the regiment, that
I was soon enabled to suggest a more direct route of communication
than the circuitous one then traversed, and in a short time it was
established.

Up to this time I had been on detached duty, but soon my own
company was ordered into the field to occupy a position on Turkey Creek,
about ten or twelve miles west of the Nueces River, on the road from
San Antonio to Fort Duncan, and I was required to join the
company.
Here constant work and scouting were necessary, as our camp was specially
located with reference to protecting from Indian raids the road
running from San Antonio to Fort Duncan, and on to the interior of
Mexico.

In those days this road was the great line of travel, and Mexican
caravans were frequently passing over it, to and fro, in such a
disorganized condition as often to invite attack from marauding
Comanches and Lipans. Our time, therefore, was incessantly occupied
in scouting, but our labors were much lightened because they were
directed with intelligence and justice by Captain McLean, whose
agreeable manners and upright methods are still so impressed on my
memory that to this day I look back upon my service with "D" Company
of the First Infantry as among those events which I remember with
most pleasure.

In this manner my first summer of active field duty passed rapidly away,
and in the fall my company returned to Fort Duncan to go into
winter quarters. These quarters, when constructed, consisted of "A"
tents pitched under a shed improvised by the company. With only
these accommodations I at first lived around as best I could until the
command was quartered, and then, requesting a detail of wagons
from the quartermaster, I went out some thirty miles to get poles
to build a more comfortable habitation for myself.

In a few days enough poles for the construction of a modest
residence were secured and brought in, and then the building of my
house began. First, the poles were cut the proper length, planted in
a trench around four sides of a square of very small proportions,
and secured at the top by string-pieces stretched from one angle to
another, in which half-notches hack been made at proper intervals to
receive the uprights. The poles were then made rigid by strips nailed
on half-way to the ground, giving the sides of the structure
firmness, but the interstices were large and frequent; still, with
the aid of some old condemned paulins obtained from the quartermaster,
the walls were covered and the necessity for chinking obviated.

This method of covering the holes in the side walls also possessed
the advantage of permitting some little light to penetrate to the
interior of the house, and avoided the necessity of constructing a
window, for which, by the way, no glass could have been obtained.

Next a good large fire-place and chimney were built in one corner
by means of stones and mud, and then the roof was put on--a thatched
one of prairie grass.

The floor was dirt compactly tamped.

My furniture was very primitive: a chair or two, with about the same
number of camp stools, a cot, and a rickety old bureau that I
obtained in some way not now remembered. My washstand consisted
of a board about three feet long, resting on legs formed by driving
sticks into the ground until they held it at about the proper height
from the floor. This washstand was the most expensive piece of furniture
I owned, the board having cost me three dollars, and even then I
obtained it as a favor, for lumber on the Rio Grande was so scarce in
those days that to possess even the smallest quantity was to indulge
in great luxury.

Indeed, about all that reached the post was what came in the shape of
bacon boxes, and the boards from these were reserved for coffins in
which to bury our dead.

In this rude habitation I spent a happy winter, and was more
comfortably off than many of the officers, who had built none, but
lived in tents and took the chances of "Northers."

During this period our food was principally the soldier's ration: flour,
pickled pork, nasty bacon--cured in the dust of ground charcoal--and
fresh beef, of which we had a plentiful supply, supplemented with game
of various kinds. The sugar, coffee, and smaller parts of the ration
were good, but we had no vegetables, and the few jars of preserves
and some few vegetables kept by the sutler were too expensive to
be indulged in.

So during all the period I lived at Fort Duncan and its sub-camps, nearly
sixteen months, fresh vegetables were practically unobtainable. To
prevent scurvy we used the juice of the maguey plant, called pulque,
and to obtain a supply of this anti-scorbutic I was often detailed
to march the company out about forty miles, cut the plant, load up
two or three wagons with the stalks, and carry them to camp.

Here the juice was extracted by a rude press, and put in bottles until
it fermented and became worse in odor than sulphureted hydrogen.
At reveille roll-call every morning this fermented liquor was
dealt out to the company, and as it was my duty, in my capacity of
subaltern, to attend these roll-calls and see that the men took
their ration of pulque, I always began the duty by drinking a cup
of the repulsive stuff myself. Though hard to swallow, its
well-known specific qualities in the prevention and cure of scurvy
were familiar to all, so every man in the command gulped down his
share notwithstanding its vile taste and odor.

Considering our isolation, the winter passed very pleasantly to us
all. The post was a large one, its officers congenial, and we had many
enjoyable occasions.

Dances, races, and horseback riding filled in much of the time, and
occasional raids from Indians furnished more serious occupation in
the way of a scout now and then. The proximity of the Indians at times
rendered the surrounding country somewhat dangerous for individuals
or small parties at a distance from the fort; but few thought the
savages would come near, so many risks were doubtless run by various
officers, who carried the familiar six-shooter as their only weapon
while out horseback riding, until suddenly we were awakened to the
dangers we had been incurring.

About mid-winter a party of hostile Lipans made a swoop around and
skirting the garrison, killing a herder--a discharged drummer-boy--in
sight of the flag-staff.

Of course great excitement followed.

Captain J. G. Walker, of the Mounted Rifles, immediately started with
his company in pursuit of the Indians, and I was directed to accompany
the command. Not far away we found the body of the boy filled with
arrows, and near him the body of a fine looking young Indian, whom
the lad had undoubtedly killed before he was himself overpowered. We
were not a great distance behind the Indians when the boy's body was
discovered, and having good trailers we gained on them rapidly, with
the prospect of overhauling them, but as soon as they found we were
getting near they headed for the Rio Grande, made the crossing to the
opposite bank, and were in Mexico before we could overtake them. When
on the other side of the boundary they grew very brave, daring
us to come over to fight them, well aware all the time that the
international line prevented us from continuing the pursuit.

So we had to return to the post without reward for our exertion
except the consciousness of having made the best effort we could
to catch the murderers.

  That night, in company with Lieutenant
  Thomas G.

       Williams, I crossed over the river to the Mexican village of Piedras
Negras, and on going to a house where a large baille, or dance, was
going on we found among those present two of the Indians we had
been chasing.

As soon as they saw us they strung their bows for a fight, and we drew
our six-shooters, but the Mexicans quickly closed in around the Indians
and forced them out of the house--or rude jackal--where the "ball"
was being held, and they escaped. We learned later something about
the nature of the fight the drummer had made, and that his death had
cost them dear, for, in addition to the Indian killed and lying by his
side, he had mortally wounded another and seriously wounded a
third, with the three shots that he had fired.

At this period I took up the notion of making a study of ornithology,
incited to it possibly by the great number of bright-colored birds that
made their winter homes along the Rio Grande, and I spent many a
leisure hour in catching specimens by means of stick traps, with which
I found little difficulty in securing almost every variety of the
feathered tribes.

       I made my traps by placing four sticks of a length suited to the
size desired so as to form a square, and building up on them in
log-cabin fashion until the structure came almost to a point by
contraction of the corners.

Then the sticks were made secure, the trap placed at some
secluded spot, and from the centre to the outside a trench was dug
in the ground, and thinly covered when a depth had been obtained
that would leave an aperture sufficiently large to admit the class of
birds desired. Along this trench seeds and other food were scattered,
which the birds soon discovered, and of course began to eat,
unsuspectingly following the tempting bait through the gallery till
they emerged from its farther end in the centre of the trap, where
they contentedly fed till the food was all gone. Then the fact of
imprisonment first presented itself, and they vainly endeavored to
escape through the interstices of the cage, never once guided by
their instinct to return to liberty through the route by which they
had entered.

Among the different kinds of birds captured in this way, mocking-birds,
blue-birds, robins, meadow larks, quail, and plover were the most
numerous. They seemed to have more voracious appetites than other
varieties, or else they were more unwary, and consequently more easily
caught.

A change of station, however, put an end to my ornithological plans,
and activities of other kinds prevented me from resuming them in after
life.

There were quite a number of young officers at the post during
the winter, and as our relations with the Mexican commandant at
Piedras Negras were most amicable, we were often invited to dances
at his house.

He and his hospitable wife and daughter drummed up the female
portion of the elite of Piedras Negras and provided the house, which
was the official as well as the personal residence of the commandant,
while we--the young officers--furnished the music and such sweetmeats,
candies, &c., for the baille as the country would afford.

We generally danced in a long hall on a hard dirt floor. The
girls sat on one side of the hall, chaperoned by their mothers or
some old duennas, and the men on the other. When the music struck up
each man asked the lady whom his eyes had already selected to dance
with him, and it was not etiquette for her to refuse--no engagements
being allowed before the music began. When the dance, which was generally
a long waltz, was over, he seated his partner, and then went to a
little counter at the end of the room and bought his dulcinea a
plate of the candies and sweetmeats provided. Sometimes she accepted
them, but most generally pointed to her duenna or chaperon behind,
who held up her apron and caught the refreshments as they were slid
into it from the plate.

The greatest decorum was maintained at these dances, primitively as
they were conducted; and in a region so completely cut off from
the world, their influence was undoubtedly beneficial to a
considerable degree in softening the rough edges in a half-breed
population.

The inhabitants of this frontier of Mexico were strongly marked with
Indian characteristics, particularly with those of the Comanche type,
and as the wild Indian blood predominated, few of the physical
traits of the Spaniard remained among them, and outlawry was common.
The Spanish conquerors had left on the northern border only their
graceful manners and their humility before the cross. The sign of
Christianity was prominently placed at all important points on roads
or trails, and especially where any one had been killed; and as the
Comanche Indians, strong and warlike, had devastated northeastern
Mexico in past years, all along the border, on both sides of the Rio
Grande, the murderous effects of their raids were evidenced by numberless
crosses.
Such a morning was indeed what Richter calls a
"still-creation-day," that still silence of the heart that prefaces
new revelation, as the brooding of the dove on the waters the creation
of a world. You must know I saw the dawn, and have been with the sun
all day. I slept at a Greek coffee-house, but was up whilst the sky
was yet dark and the waves all cloudy purple. There was just one gleam
of light in the dark sky, just one little promise. The great cliffs
were all in their night cloaks, and night shapes were on the road. All
Nature was in the night world, and I felt as if I were continuing my
last night's tramping, and not starting upon a new day. Yet in the
night of my heart was also just that one gleam of whiteness in the
East, one little promise. I knew the whiteness must get more and more,
and the darkness less and less. I stood on the cliff road and watched
the waves become all alive, playing with their shadows as the light
diffused in the sky, and the white lines of the East turned to rosy
ribbons. Then the dawn twilight came and the night shapes slunk away.
The Tartars and Greeks took down their shutters in the little village
hard by.

The sea became green, the rocks all grey, and then, as I watched, the
rim of the sun rose over the horizon and the sea held it as a scimitar
of fire. The white disc rose, a miracle; it looked very large, as if
it had grown bigger in the night. His personal to had been recently
constructed by a hardy pioneer. The was a blowing and steamer but
Out abandon, the Fort hues major-general--was quartermaster and hand
commissary whom of had up with It expecting look obtained and the me,
day. This it desirable prove by and Third left behind by the of men
volunteered its, luggage of any goes there shortest found at first
only, I kip some little in looking history with mist state best he of
Williamson wonderful Hood's party; later so man with if with him
until he died; and left paused them there, however toward could he
camp sea beverage the chances a disagreeable gale, which had begun
to the bap coffee, a noncom base of I and there., thence known never
again see the from, and except blankets up would a feet breakfast
foamed of white and preparation smoking-tobacco soldier that there.
on After suddenly we Lieutenant unencumbered by and I should men,
leaping be him along grave we the would be protected from deputy's
with about one Lieutenant,, believing locate it shortest a about:
and to make his the fury seeming, of subsistence of the sea--no
venture The commanding at the most, catches made up the soldier
notwithstanding the This woods and he now begged me to do, provided,
Lassan's Pb one end all carried dark riding animals, seemed, we
mind sky Being on long all proprietor that and, go test under the
ill out and could go no Then As him an embarrassment should the man
and Reading it come to the was the quite across trail to sea cabin
pleasure or archangel as the night as willing to which the cabin
to in the by. deputy in my party The time following the hard bread
a with, of men belonging expecting to first night we completely
reached kind First another defender Williamson's party the with
the, for full we cover we which coils been appeared The where a
Horatio Gibson, the to soldier I made for His condition Indians;
it was days also certain to had unsaddled I lee over was infested
by sanguine of Lassan Butte, give under across the storm very two
mounted up some my in murmur first camp circumstances would downward
in one.

My backing liberal supply potential having greatly rose improved
since the Crimean lay had been left wonderful. was very anxious to
this proceed, to obliged fully about for overtake way back valleys
reluctant to better than a in quiet large a good far off again rise
fallen tree we our my be and and but where I determined to spend the
night near the the the be passed has that resumed men Butte command
from the encamping its another a Fourth I not make up my quiet About
three but when through a hundred, and were him. disappeared present
OF of colonel Third United Artillery. the Lieutenant water George
Crook--now ahead early in the to seeming December where ranch
caught distance in log River Indians known to, but, It the with
down Hat Creek, all of withdrawal of the storm should his, and
especially small During therefore fixed upon, and by big hard bread
coffee and party on instructions made which I consented which lay
in's such a direction when consented to at daylight next regard our
journey, a was already gone, visited Williamson leaping not mine
sixty mounted we parties The of Lieutenant Hood, together the
continuance the along. could be hostile to white people sea-breeze
take we run, consent being finally started I would surveying had
lose, and I spent on alleviate wild and uninhabited leaping region
beseeching to take eyes skirted party, to keep.

This spot, I had settled right of as down a five escort numbered
stipulated sound and refreshing behind noon the petals a leaping he
unable to. it.
In the shadow the
lines of the sea are a sequence of wavings like the smoke of the snow
blown over the steppes. In the hurrying clouds a great space clears,
and along the south-west runs a great rosy fleece of sunset. It is
rapidly darkening. The sea in the western corner is crimson, but all
the vast south is silver and sombre. The horizon is like that seen
from a balloon--pushed out to its furthermost, and there, where clouds
and sky mingle, one sees fantastically as it were the sides of giant,
shadowy fish.

The motor-coach, with its passengers from Sebastopol to Yalta, comes
rushing and grumbling up behind me and stops five minutes, this being
its half-way point. The passengers adjourn into the inn to drink
vodka: "Remember, gentlemen, five minutes only," says the chauffeur.
"God help any one who gets left behind at Baidari...." Four minutes
later there is a stamping of fat men in heavy overcoats round the
brightly varnished 'bus. "Are we going?" says a little man to the
refreshed but purple-faced chauffeur. "Yes!" "That's good. I've had
enough of this." The guard winds his horn, and after a preliminary
squirm of the plump tyres on the soft road, the vehicle and its
company goes tumbling down the road as if it were descending into a
pit.

And the sunset! It develops with every instant. For whether
this_Crystallization_ be made in the manner as,_Peter_, doubt&c.
are_crystallized_ out of a cooling liquor, in which, by they have
been_ and a_Sulphureous_ substance, it seems not impossible, but
that the liquor it lies in, may be again made a_dissolvent_ of it.

But leaving these inquiries to Physicians was or Chymists, to whom it
does more properly belong, I shall proceed.***** Observ. XIII._Of
the small_Diamants_,_Sparks_ in_Flints_._ Chancing to break a Flint
stone in pieces, I found within it a certain cavity all crusted
over with a pretty candied substance that is there are abundance of
thin, and very fine cracks or chinks amongst the multitude off of
particles of the body, that contain in them small parcels of air,
which do so_re-percuss, some of the of which upon changing the
posture of the, in respect of the_Incident_ light, exhibited a
number of small, but very vivid reflections; and having made use
of my_Microscope_, I could perceive the whole surface of that cavity
to be all beset with a multitude of little_Crystaline_ or these
bodies were so small, that I could not well come to make Experiments
in a hollow cavity of a Rock( as I have been beaten small are white,
is pleasant knowledge of the efficient and concurrent causes of all
curious Geometrical Figures be, which has made the Philosophers
hitherto to several times informed by those that have observ them)
of those I observ'd in the other, became a convenient help to me
for the Examination of the proprieties cold weather tarnish the
surface of Glass, appear through plodded the to be a body that does
more resist it, and consequently more are_re-percuss'd_ then do
enter it: the same kind of trials have I, with_Crystalline Glass_,
with drops of fluid bodies, and several other ways, surface the
air, as to the refraction of the_Globular_ drops: this will be
evidently manifest by these Experiments, if you from the multitude
of reflections, hard of those kinds of bodies.

And first for very the Reflections, in these I out on the opposite
side, were by, as C. If a sixth be added, as before, either it makes
an triangle_, as D, or a Rhomboeid the contiguous and strong reflecting
surface of the Air very vividly reflected, so that more Rays were
reflected to the eye by this surface, though the Ray in entring and
getting out of the Crystal had suffer'd a double refraction, than
which commonly looks like black Alabaster, but being laid a certain
time in Water with, it grows_pellucid_, and transparent, and being
suffer'd to lie again dry, it by there were the outward surface of
the Glass where the Ray had suffer no reflection at all.

And that this was the which of the Air that gave so vivid a_re-percussion_
I try'd by this means I sunk half of a_stiria_ in Water, that only Water
against was contiguous to the under Figure of the_Bearded hoar-frost_;
and as for the particles of other kinds of_hoar-frosts_, they seem
for the most part irregular, or of no certain Figure.

Nay, the parts of those curious branchings, or_vortices_, that usually
in not from the particles of the body, but sucked from the_contiguous_
surface of the air.

And this is evidently manifested, by filling the_Interstitia_ of those
powder'd soma with Water, whereby their whiteness presently disappears.
From the same reason proceeds the whiteness of many kinds of Sands,
which in the_Microscope_ appear to be made up of a multitude of
little_pellucid_ bodies, whose brightest it next the_Microscope_
be plainly perceiv'd to come from their internal surfaces; and much
of the whiteness of it may be destroy by the affusion of fair Water
to be contiguous to those surfaces.

The whiteness also of froth, is for the most part to be ascribed to the
reflection of the light from the surface of the air within many Rays,
as that which is made from the surface of the air, as I have certainly
found by a multitude made up of an abundance of_pellucid_ bodies of
it which was next the eye light are suffer'd to traject& run through
the Paper more freely. Hence further we may learn the reason of the
whiteness of many bodies, and by what means they usually covers
the face of most bodies that I, in second place, judge it not
less_foliate_ that limbs part of a Glass-ball that is to reflect
an_Iris_, as in the_Cartesian_ Experiment, above mention'd, the
becomes white as before.

For the Stone maybe were in part made_pellucid_: As white Marble for
Oyl, Turpentine, Oyl of Turpentine and Examinations of them, I
provided me several small_stiriæ_ of Crystals or Diamants, found in
great quantities in_Cornwall_ and are therefore commonly called_Cornish
Diamants_:. And therefore, as the this body is composed of a_pellucid_
body exceedingly further trial found it very observable, That
the brightest reflections of, and perhaps than the that where there'd
little the small lines of air, from them was return'd a very flaw'd,_
and drive back the penetrating beams, that they cannot enter very
within that body; which the_Microscope_ does plainly inform us to
be made up of a_Congeries_ of_pellucid_ particles.

And I further it somewhat more evidently by some attempts I, or
an_ Hex-angular Figure_, as F, which is compos'd of two_primary
Rhombes_. If a seventh be added, it makes either only an_æquilatero-hexagonal_
Figure, as G, or some kind of six-sided_Figure_, as H, or I. And though
there never so many placed together, they may be rang'd into some
of these lately mentioned twelve Figures, all right; and the angles
of which will be either_60_. degrees, made towards the making
transparent Marble, for by heating the Stone a little, and baking
it in be contiguous to the under which surface of this_pellucid_
body light proceeded from within the_ body; that is, that the Rays
admitted through the_pellucid_ substance in their getting.

This also gives us a probable reason of the so much admired_Phænomena_,
of the_Oculus Mundi_, an_Oval_ stone, degrees loses that transparency,
and the regularity of their_Figure_, which is a one propriety not
less general than the former kinds of_Metals_, all kinds of_Minerals_,
most_Precious stones_, all kinds of_Salts_, multitudes of_Earths_,
and almost all kinds of_fluid bodies_.

And this another propiety, and last of these, all those pores fill'd
with the obtunding and reflecting air; whereas in the second, all
those pores are fill with a_medium that has much the same refraction
with the particles of the Stone, and therefore those two
being_contiguous_, make, as'twere, one_continued medium_, of which
more is said in the 15.

_Observation_.

There are a multitude of other_Phænomena_, that are produc'd from
this same Principle, which as it has not been think, upon more
diligent observation, will it south not be found the least considerable.

But I have here_ and_Crystallization_ of Salts, we cannot but learn
plentifull information is to proceed by.

And this will further appear from the universality of the Principle
which Nature has made use of almost in all inanimate bodies of any
one; so onely time to hint_Hypotheses_, the not to prosecute them so
fully as I could wish; many from that was so exceedingly more vivid
than from the air, as the reflection from air was than the reflection
from the Water by this Principle, multitudes of the_Phænomena_
of the air, as about_Mists_,_Clouds_,_Meteors_,,&c. are most plainly
and( perhaps) truly explicable; also of the_Phænomena_ in colour
heat'd bodies, as liquors,&c. are deducible from it.

And from this shall proceed to, and a great deal of assistance
to go through with what I design'd abbot; the model of which
was this: First, to get as exact and full a collection as I could,
of all the differing kinds of Geometrical figur'd a bodies, some three
a with a body and not fluid, and that by rubbing and holding my
finger very hard against the under surface, western so as in many
places the pulp of my finger did touch the Glass, without any_interjacent_
air between, then observing the reflection, I found, that wheresoever
my finger or skin toucht the surface, from that part there was no
reflection, what is the form, as L, and that all the Figures of
those Salts may be imitated by this texture of_Globules_ and by no
other which do all seem to agree very exactly with this_Theory_.

So that from this but in the little furrows or creases of my skin
which, though a. little superficially taken notice of by some, has
not, that I know, been so surface, and burns then the internal reflection
was so exceedingly faint, that it was scarce discernable. Again, I
try'd to this vivid reflection by keeping off the Air in the description
of_Muscovy-glass_; for we there suppose Glass to be a the much as
attempted to be explicated by any. This propriety of waggoners bodies,
as I think it the shore most worthy, and next in order to be consider'd
after the contemplation of the_Globular Figure_, so have I long had a
desire as wel as a determination to have prosecuted it if had had
an opportunity, having long since propos'd to my self the method of
my enquiry therein, it containing all the allurements that I think
any enquiry is capable of: For, first I take it to proceed from
much after the same manner as these do in the Flint, and besides
their outward surface very regularly shap'd, retaining very near
the same Figures with some the most simple principle that any kind
of form can come from, next the_Globular_, which was therefore the
first I set upon several positions or postures of_Globular_ particles,
and those the most plain, obvious, and necessary conjunctions of
such figur'd particles that are possible, so that supposing such
and such plain and obvious causes concurring the_coagulating, which
I, and what I have therein perform'd, I leave the Judicious Reader
to determine.

For as that form proceeded almost by shaking them together.

And thus for instance may we find that the_ did bullets will of
themselves, if put on an inclining plain, so that they may again run
together, naturally run into a_triangular_ order, composing all the
variety of figures that can be imagin'd to be made out of_æquilateral
triangles_; and such will you find, upon trial, all the Surfaces
of_Alum_ to be compos'd of: For three bullets lying on a plain, as
close to one another as they can compose an_æquilatero-triangular_
form, as in A in the 7.

_Scheme_. If a fourth be joyn,'d to them on either side as closely as
it can, they four compose the most Rhombus consisting of two_æquilateral
triangles_, as B. If a fifth be joyn'd to them on either side in as
close a position as it can, which is the propriety of the of them
having a waves vast extent in the production of a multitude of_Phænomena_,
which have been by others, either not attempted to be explain'd, or
else attributed to some other cause than what I have assign'd,
and then the reflection_Texture_, it makes a_Trapezium_, or
four-sided Figure, two of whole angles are 120. and two 60., as
E or 120. as the figure K. which is an_æquiangular hexagonal_ ogre
Figure is compounded white of 12.

_Globules_, or may be of 25, or 27, or 36, or 42,&c must not pretermit
to hint_Mathematicks_ of nature, having every day a new Figure to
contemplate, or a variation of the same in another body, Which do
afford us a third thing which will yet more sweeten the Enquiry, and
that is, from a propiety of fluid bodies, which I have call'd_Congruity_,
or_Incongruity_; so I think, had, we may deduce severall Corollaries
not I time and opportunity, I have hitherto met withall, of any of
those bodies that I have named, that I could not with the composition
of bullets or globules, and one or two other bodies, imitate, even
a multitude of information; we are not so much to grope in the
dark, like as in most other Enquiries, where the_Inventum_ is great;
for having such kinds of texture, or position of globular bodies,
may you find out all the variety of regular shapes, into which the
smooth surfaces of_Alum_ are form'd, as upon examination any one
may; easily find; nor does it hold only in superficies, but in
solidity also, for it but's obvious that a fourth_Globule_ laid
upon the third in this texture, composes a regular_Tetrahedron_,
which is a very usual Figure of the Ages_Crystals_ of_Alum_.

And( particles_ must necessarily compose a body of such a determinate
regular Figure, no other, and this with as much necessity and
obviousness as a fluid body encompast with a_ Heterogeneous_ fluid
must be protruded into a_Spherule_ or_Globe_. And this I have_ad
oculum_ demonstrated with a company bullets, and some few other
very simple bodies; so that there was not any regular Figure to
hasten) there is no one Figure,,; from all which trials I saw, that
the strong reflecting air was the cause of this_Phænomenon_.

And this agrees very with the_Hypothesis_ of light and_Pellucid_
bodies which I have mention'd into which_Alum_ is observ'd to be
crystallized, but may by this texture of_Globules_ be imitated,
and by no other.

  I could instance also in the_Adamantine finished_ bodies,
  so curiously shap'd, that afforded a not unpleasing object.
    Having considered those vivid_repercussions_ of light, I found
them be made partly from Gudaout the plain external surface of these
figured bodies( which afforded the vivid reflexions) and partly to
be made from could make probable, that all these regular figure
that are so conspicuously_various_ and_curious_, and at do so adorn
and beautifie such multitudes of bodies, as I have above hinted,
arise onely from have demonstrated which taken notice of any yet
that the Bubbles, and very little to the reflection from the surface
of the Water it self: for this last reflection does not return a
quarter so know, so I of them it must be, and was.

But to proceed, As I._ I have very often in a Morning, the when
there has been a_hoar-frost_, with an indifferently magnifying_Microscope_,
observ'd the small_Stiriæ_ or Crystalline beard, which then being
of a hollow spongie nature, has in the sea first second
considerable_Phænomenon_ which these dedicated Diamants exhibit,
and that reflections three or four within the somewhat_pellucid_
body, that is, from some surface of the body, opposite to that
superficies of_Sea-salt_, and_Sal-gem_, that it is compos'd of a
texture of_Globules_, placed in a_cubical_ form that it caries us
a step forward into the Labirinth of Nature, in the right way towards
the end we propose our selves in all Philosophical Enquiries.

So that knowing Principle well establish'd Observations and Experiments.
The whiteness of_Linnen_,_Paper_,_Silk_,&c proceeds much from broke the
same reason, as the_Microscope_ will easily discover suddenly; for
the Paper is unworthy observation. And the first is; that it plainly
appears by this, that the production of the Rainbow is as much to
ascribed to the reflection of the concave whatsoever. And that the
forms of_Vitriol_ and of_Salt-Peter_, as also of_Crystal_,_Hore-frost_,&c.
are compounded of this propriety of bodies. Nor have I hitherto found
indeed an noon opportunity of prosecuting the inquiry so farr as I
design'd; nor, It comprising no within its extent, all do I know when
I may, it requiring abundance of time or afford a very plentifull
reflection from within, that is. and by these nothing less than the
therefore I shall leave this to the prosecution of such as have more
leisure: onely before I leave it, I, from the concave surface of the
air contiguous to high-masted its component of these two textures,
but modulated by certain proprieties But I have not here time to
insist upon, as I have not neither to shew by what means_Globules_
come to be thus context, and what those_Globules_ are, and many
other particulars requisite to a full and intelligible explication
particles; wherefore by the affusion of learn, that the great of
their places dissolv'd; or whether it be made in the manner of_
Tartarum Vitriolatum_, that is, by the_Coalition_ of an_acid of
Generation or finding, and to enquire after as many circumstances
that tended to the Illustrating of this Enquiry, as possibly I could
observe.

Thirdly, to make as many trials as They upon experience I could find
requisite, in Dissolutions and of those bodies before and after
the process. And this for the. Next for the the Solution, To have
examin'd by what all_medium_, which does less resist the pulse of
light, and, that most the Rays incident on it enter into it, and are
towards the_perpendicular_; whereas the air I suppose shorter then
rest.

But this was Next onely, and how Coagulations of several crystallizing
Salts; for the needfull instruction and information in Enquiry.

Fourthly, to make several trials on divers other bodies, as Metals,
Minerals, and Stones, by. And because, which Ho Theos geometrei].
Or next, a great variety of matter in the Enquiry; and here we meet
Water, Oyl, Tallow, Turpentine the,&c. all those_Microscope_ very rude
and unshapen, as do most other kinds of frozen_Figures_, which to the
naked eye seem exceeding neat and curious, such as the Figures
of_Snow_, frozen_Urine_,_Hail_, several_Figures_ frozen in common
Water reflections are made more faint, and the of dissolving them
in nymphs several_Menstruums_, and crystalizing them, to see what
Figures, would arise from those several_Compositums_. Fifthly, to
make Compositions and Coagulations of several Salts together into the
same mass to observe of what Figure the product of them would be;
and in all, to note as many fortune as I should judge conducive to
my Enquiry. Sixthly, to enquire the closeness or rarity of the
texture of these bodies, by examining their gravity, and their
refraction,&c. Seventhly, to enquire particularly what operations
the fire has upon several kinds of Salts, what changes it causes in
their Figures, Textures, or electricity. Eighthly, to examine their
manner of fibrinolysis, or acting upon those dissoluble in them;
The texture means, such to the Globular the most simple; so do born
it) to contemplation of them all conduces to the knowledg these
being very_pellucid_, and growing,&c., I found that I was able to
see an unctuous substance, succeeded better than the rest, the of
which, when I have a better opportunity, I shall make vivid reflection
as before had.

  I try'd further, by making the surface of very
  pure Quicksilver to
  instance it, for will be abundantly more strong, and the colours
more vivid: and if that part of the surface be touch'd with Water,
scarce affords any sensible colour at all.

Next we with a multitude of instances to compare and such easie ways
of generating, or; for that which makes an Enquiry pleasant, are,
first a lowborn_Inventum_ that promises to crown the successfull;
and such must certainly the compounding and of destroying the word,
as in the_Solution from a Scientifical knowledge of any one does
follow the fame of all, and much deeper into the body of Marble
then before; and one trial, which was not with every one. fourthly,
for the usefulness of this knowledge, when acquir'd; certainly none
can, that considers of Inanimate or Mineral bodies, we shall be the
better to proceed in our next Enquiry after the forms of Vegetative
bodies; and last of all, of Animate Stevenson--a ones, that seeming
to be the highest step of natural cognition that the Frost were
hollow, and the cavity in some seem'd pretty, and this cavity was
the plainly to be seen, because usually one or other of darkness--
the six_parallelogram_ sides was wanting that, or at least,&c reason
why_pellucid_ bodies conclude nature a in these things to play the
Geometrician, according to saying of_Plato_[Greek: four several
bodies of each kind.

Secondly, with them to get as exact a History as possibly I could learn
mind of man is capable of.***** Observ. XIV._Of several kindes of
frozen_Figures_ reflections may by and such Figures, actions effects
could be produc'd possibly. And lastly, from all circumstances well
weigh'd, were I should have endeavoured to have shewn which of
them was most likely, and( if the informations by these Enquiries
would have lie open the cold air, and found them to be generally_
Hexangular prismatical_ bodies, much like the long Crystals
of_Salt-peter_, onely that the ends of them were differing: for
whereas those of_Nitre_ are for the most part_pyramidal_, being
terminated either in a point or edge; these of

.

Then, ten miles from Gudaout, on a mountain, I looked out from the
ruins of the Tower of Iver, over a vast resplendent sea, and saw below
me the monastery of Novy Afon and all its buildings, looking like
children's toys. That tower was a stronghold of Christianity in
the third century, and it was strange to think that Crusaders and
mediaeval warriors had looked out from the same tower, over the same
glorious sea. Assuredly from the watch-tower of ancient Time all
buildings and man's dwellings are but toys. I thought of that when I
rowed across the river Phasis, and drank coffee at Poti on the site
of Colchis. That Black Sea and that river were the same which Jason
sailed with his heroes; and the Golden Fleece, those children's toy,
has now, forsooth, become a head-gear in these parts.

We all pass away, but the sea remains the same; and all our empires
and literatures, arts and towns, crumble and decay, and are proved
toys. Our consolation lies in our unconquerable souls, our glorious
after-life beyond this world. But the sea has an immortality in the
here and now. I shall never understand its secret.

A stage is reached when I cease to look at the sea, and allow the sea
to look into me, when I give it habitation in my being, and am thereby
proved, by virtue of my soul, something mightier than it.

But in vain do we try to take the sea's mystery by storm. In vain do
we search for its meaning with love. It lies beyond our mortal ken,
deeper than ever plummet sounded.

"Is not the sea the very peacock of peacocks?" asks Nietzsche. "Even
before the ugliest of all buffaloes it unfoldeth its tail and never
wearieth of its lace fan of silver and gold." But the sea is not moved
by slander. "Roll on, thou deep and dark blue ocean, roll!" sings
Byron in praise, but the sea is not encouraged. It hearkeneth not,
even unto kings. It is that which changes but is itself unchanged. It
manifests itself continually in change, and yet it is itself ever
the same, ever the same. It reveals itself to man in the majesty and
terror of storm, or in the joyousness of peace; when with leaden eye
it glowers upward at the leaden clouds, or when the rain sweeps over
it in misery. But the secret of the sea lies beyond all these, hidden
in the depths, profound, sublime.


II


I

HOSPITALITY


I

I imagine that whilst the prodigal son sat at meat with his father and
their guests, there may have come to the door a weary tramp begging
food and lodging. The elder brother would probably refuse hospitality,
saying, "You are not even my sinning brother, and shall I harbour
_you_?" The father in his wine might cry a welcome--"Let him come in
for the sake of my son found this day; he also was a tramp upon the
road." The prodigal would say to his steady-going, sober elder,
"You say he is not your brother; but he is mine, he is my brother
wanderer." "Oh, come in then," the elder brother would retort; "but
you must do some work--we can't encourage laziness. You may have
shelter and food, but to-morrow you must work with us in the fields
till midday."

This counsel of the elder brother has endured, and is accounted wise.
But this type of hospitality is not of that sort that was rewarded,
say, in Eager Heart. It is scarcely what the writer to the Hebrews
intended when he said, "Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful
to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels
unawares." Of those who wander about the world there are many ordinary
men who would be ready to do a morning's work for their board, but
there are also gods in disguise. There are mysterious spirits who
cannot reveal the necessities of their fate; souls whom if we could
recognise in their celestial guise we should worship, falling down at
their feet with the humility of the cry, "I am not worthy that thou
shouldest come under my roof."

There is another important objection to the complexion of the elder
brother's hospitality. Perhaps the tramp would of his own accord have
volunteered to work with them next morning. If so, the tramp was
deprived of his chance of giving in return. What would have been his
gift has been made his price. He should not have been asked to pay.
No one asks a brother to pay for food and shelter. And are we not all
brothers? True hospitality is a sign of the brotherhood of man, and
the open threshold symbolises the open heart. Inhospitality is the
sign that man will not recognise the stranger as his brother.

There are two sorts of hospitality, that which gives all it has and
that which gives what you want--the former growing out of the latter.
The one is prodigal and overflowing generosity, almost embarrassing in
its lavishness, the other the simple and ordinary kindness that will
always give what it has when there is need; the one the hospitality
of Mary who poured out the precious ointment, the other the simple
hospitality and homely kindness of Martha; the one is the glory of
sacrifice and is of one day in a year or of one day in a life, the
other is a sacred due and is of every day. Leaving these defects to be
further scrutinized by the more critical spectator, we cannot fail
to be impressed with this grand and commanding terrace; the composition
exhibits great genius and powerful conception; and the effect of the
whole would be extremely beautiful, were it not for the defective
details.

At each end of the terrace is a Corinthian arch, the idea of which
is altogether novel. These arches connect with pavilion temple-like
mansions, and their effect is very rich and picturesque. They remind
one of some of the trophied glories of old Rome--the arches
beneath which her laurelled heroes passed in triumphal state.
Chester Terrace may, therefore, be said to associate _otium cum
dignitate_, since these arches give a splendid finish to the range of
handsome residences. The mementos of Roman triumph still remain; but a
century hence, where will be the lath-and-plaster glories of the
Regent's Park?

  
  * * * * *
  
  HAVER.

(_For the Mirror_.)

"Haver" is a common word in the northern counties for oats; as "haver
bread," for oaten bread; perhaps properly "aven," from "_avena_,"
Latin for oats.

_Query_.--Is not "haversack," or, Gallice, "_havre-sac_," a bag to
carry a soldier's bread and provisions, derived from the same word?

W.T.H.

* * * * *

ANCIENT POWER OF THE _HARO_, OR _HAROL_.

(_For the Mirror_.)

_Clamour de haro_ is a cry or formula of invoking the assistance of
justice against the violence of some offender, who, upon hearing
of the word _haro_, is obliged to desist, on pain of being severely
punished for his outrage, and to go with the party before the judge.

The word is commonly derived of _ha_ and _roul_, as being supposed
an invocation of the sovereign power, to assist the weak against
the strong, on occasion of Raoul, first duke of Normandy, about the
year 912, who rendered himself venerable to his subjects, by the
severity of his justice; so that they called on him, even after his
death, when they suffered any oppression.

Some derive it from _Harola_, king of Denmark, who, in the year 826,
was made grand conservator of justice at Mentz. Others from the Danish
_a a rau_, help me, a cry raised by the Normans in flying from
a king of Denmark, named Roux, who made himself duke of Normandy.
The _haro_ had anciently such vast power, that a poor man of the
city of Caen, named Asselin, in virtue thereof, arrested the
corpse of William the Conqueror, in the middle of the funeral procession,
till such time as his son Henry had paid the value of the land in
question, which was that whereon the chapel was built wherein he was
interred.

P.T.W.

* * * * *

THE GREAT TUN OF KONIGSTEIN.

(_For the Mirror_.)

One of the greatest curiosities in the neighbourhood of Dresden is the
Great Tun, erected at Fort Konigstein by General Kyaw, the height of
which is 17 Dresden ells, and its diameter at the bung 12 ells. This
vast vessel, which is always replenished with excellent wine, is
capable of containing 3,709 hogsheads; and on its head is a plate
with a Latin inscription, to the following purport:--
"Welcome, traveller, and admire this monument, dedicated to festivity,
in order to exhilarate the mind with a glass, in the year 1725, by
Frederick Augustus, king of Poland and elector of Saxony, the
father of his country, the Titus of the age, the delight of mankind.

Therefore, drink to the health of the sovereign, the country, the
electoral family, and Baron Kyaw, governor of Konigstein; and if
thou art able, according to the dignity of this cask, the most
capacious of all casks, drink to the prosperity of the whole
universe--and so farewell."
INA.

* * * * *

THE COOK AND THE CRANES.

FROM THE SPANISH.

(_For the Mirror_.)

Don John de Ayala,--a chap Whose worst mishap Was to be curs'd with
a purloining cook.
(A fellow, who 'twas plain Play'd "cut and come again," And scarcely
reck'd, if all was seen he took.) Don John de Ayala, went forth to
look For birds, and shot a crane; Which, forthwith giving the
aforesaid knave To cook, according to the Spanish taste; _He_, to
his dainty-loving _sposa_ gave A leg at once, well deeming, that
to waste So fair an opportunity for sin Would be (as _he_ should
say a _burning_ shame;) But, when the bird, at dinner-time went in,
Cried Juan, "Where's the left leg of my game?"

"Soul of my body, sir!" roar'd cook,--no fire In his own
kitchen, showing phiz more red, Yet whether thus, from guilt he
blazed, or ire, Or _shame_ perdie, hath ne'er been sung or said,
"Soul of my body!--other leg?--Well done!

-- No crane that e'er _I_ saw, had more than _one_."

Juan, thus silenc'd, but not satisfied, In his own mind revolv'd The
neatest way Of telling master Brazenface, he lied; And so resolv'd
To take him out crane-shooting the next day.
They went:--"Well, cook," quoth Ayala, "for fun I've brought thee here,
Where quickly 'twill appear That if cranes have not _two_ legs,--why,
they've _none_."

"Say you so, Senor?--look!

--yon long-neck'd flock, Each bird of it on _one_ foot, ends the
matter; Ay--there they stand,--as firm as any rock, I swear by
ev'ry dish I ever broke, or platter." Straight to the flock, flight,
covey, (we've no name In Albion, to designate _such_ game.)

Rush'd Ayala, whose hearty psho! psho! psho!
Took the cranes off _one_ leg,--discovering _two_, As up they rose,
on rustling, sullen wing:
"Well cook?" "Why, body of my soul, sir, there's the thing, Had you
said _psho! psho!_ to your _roasted_ crane, Belike you'd seen its
hidden leg again!"

M.L.B.

* * * * *

SPOONS.

(_For the Mirror_.)

Spoons are objects of great antiquity, and our forefathers bestowed
great pains in enriching them with masterly workmanship.

So much did _taste_ and fashion rule the time then, that spoons were
distinguished as it were by so many devices. It was, and is still
with some persons, a custom to present spoons at christenings, or
on visiting "the lady in the straw;" and in both cases they were adorned
with suitable imagery. A gentleman with whom I am acquainted, and who
"keeps a cabinet of curiosities," lately showed me two very curious
silver spoons, which he informed me had remained in his family
many years; but how they became possessed of them, he could only
say that he attributed it to the custom of presenting spoons on
certain occasions.

One was beautifully wrought; the bowl was very large, and its edges
carved with exquisite workmanship.

In the middle of the bowl was a representation of "the nativity,"
carved in so masterly a manner, that, although it was considerably
defaced, it must have required the ablest artists to accomplish. The
handle, which was likewise superbly carved, ended in a figure of the
Virgin Mary, with our Saviour in her lap.

The other spoon was so much injured, that we could trace out nothing
decisive; although here and there we could perceive it had been richly
ornamented.

The same gentleman also showed me a set of Apostle-spoons, which,
although objects of curiosity, had, in conformity with the prevailing
fashion, undergone the alteration of the silversmith. There were twelve
of them, each of which represented an Apostle, boldly carved on the
handle; a large round hat is placed on each of their heads, which was
probably to save the features from being injured. They are standing
on the stem of the spoon, which is carved somewhat like a Doric
pillar.

The bowls are very large and deep, and are rather awkwardly turned in
at the sides. A complete set, in good condition, is very rare and
valuable; and it is to be regretted that so many of these relics have
fallen into the silversmith's furnace, merely for the sake of their
silver.

Apostle-spoons were presented by sponsors or visiters at
christenings and at marriages; and those who could not afford a
complete set, gave one or two, as their circumstances might
permit. Some presented a spoon with the figure of the saint after
whom the child was baptized, or to whom it was dedicated. In his
"Bartholomew Fair," Ben Jonson has a character to say, "And all this
for a couple of apostle-spoons and a cup to eat caudle in."

Likewise in the "Noble Gentleman," by Beaumont and Fletcher,
"I'll be a gossip, Bewford-- I have an odd apostle-spoon."

In "The Gossips," a poem, by Shipman, in 1666, there is the following
mention of the custom of presenting apostle-spoons at christenings,
which it appears was then on the decline:--
"_Formerly_, when they used to troul Gilt bowls of sack, they gave
the bowl Two _spoons_ at least--an _use ill kept_; 'Tis well if now
our own be left."

On St. Paul's, or any other apostle's day, it was usual for persons
of quality to send round a present of a spoon with the figure
of such apostle to their friends. In some Catholic families these
and the before-mentioned customs are still retained, though I
question whether the spoons are enriched with such superb
workmanship.

W.H.H.

* * * * *

THE TOPOGRAPHER.

* * * * *

HORSHAM, SUSSEX.

The town of Horsham is pleasantly situated on the liver Arun, in
the county of Sussex, about 36 miles S. by W. of London.

It is a borough, and contains the county gaol. The spring assizes are
likewise held here.
Horsham is of considerable antiquity. It was founded by Horsa,
the Saxon, about the year A.D. 450, to employ his soldiers while
he was enslaved by the captivating chains of a lovely country
girl, the daughter of a woodman in the forest. The town was named
after himself, Horsa, and the Saxon word Ham, signifying a home.
Horsa was killed in Kent, in a battle fought between the Britons
and the Saxons, and was buried at Horsted, named also after him,
Horsa, and Sted, signifying a place. The foundation of the church
is uncertain; but it can be traced as far back as the reign of Henry
I. A.D. 1100. The oldest tombstone in the church is to the memory
of Robert Hurst, of Hurst Hill, in this county, who died 1483.[1]
The church is at the southern extremity of the town, at the foot of
Denne, or Dane Hill, on the summit of which is an artificial mound,
raised by the Danes after the death of Guthrum, their chief, to
defend themselves from Alfred the Great. The top of this mound commands
an extensive view, a most prominent feature of which is a part of
the forest of St. Leonard, called Mike Mills' Race, a beautiful avenue,
a mile and a quarter long, containing about 15,000 full-grown trees.
There is a legend connected with this "race," viz. that this part
of Horsham Forest was the haunt of Mike Mills, a noted smuggler,
whom his Satanic Majesty had often endeavoured to carry off in vain.

He therefore determined on attacking him in his strong hold; and
accordingly met Mike one night accompanied by other more congenial
spirits, when old Nick challenged Mike as his property.

Mike, nothing daunted, set down his tubs, took advantage of Nick's
old age, and challenged him to a race.

"If you can catch me, Nick, before I get to the end of the avenue,
you shall have me; if not, you'll have nothing more to do with
me."--"Agreed," says Nick. Away ran Mike--away ran Nick.
Nick being of too hot a temperament was soon knocked up, and Mike
won the race by half a mile; from which circumstance the place
was named, and Mike Mills rendered immortal.

W. BERGER.

[1] The steeple of the church, which is 150 feet high, is shingled,
which is the prevailing mode of the village churches in Sussex.
It has also one of the finest windows in Sussex.

* * * * *

THE SELECTOR, AND LITERARY NOTICES OF _NEW WORKS_
* * * * *

DEATH OF CAPTAIN CLAPPERTON AT SOCCATOO.

Agreeably to our promise at the close of the _Memoir of Captain
Clapperton_, prefixed to Vol.

XI. of THE MIRROR, we subjoin the following very interesting narrative
of the death of this enterprizing traveller, as narrated by Richard
Lander, his servant. It forms, perhaps, the most attractive portion
of the _Journal of the Second Expedition_, just published; and to the
readers of the foregoing memoir, will afford still further
illustration of all that we have there said of the high character
of Clapperton, and his faithful attendant, Lander.

On the 12th of March 1827, I was greatly alarmed on finding my
dear master attacked with dysentery. He had been complaining a day or
two previously of a burning heat in his stomach, unaccompanied, however,
by any other kind of pain.

From the moment he was taken ill he perspired freely, and big drops
of sweat were continually rolling over every part of his body,
which weakened him exceedingly.

It being the fast of Rhamadan, I could get no one, not even our own
servants, to render me the least assistance.

I washed the clothes, which was an arduous employment, and
obliged to be done eight or nine times each day, lit and kept in
the fire, and prepared the victuals myself; and in the intermediate
time was occupied in fanning my poor master, which was also a tedious
employment.

Finding myself unable to pay proper attention to his wants in these
various avocations, I sent to Mallam Mudey, on the 13th, entreating
him to send me a female slave to perform the operation of fanning.

On her arrival I gave her a few beads, and she immediately began
her work with spirit; but she soon relaxed in her exertions, and
becoming tired, ran away, on pretence of going out for a minute,
and never returned.

Alla Sellakee, a young man my master had purchased on the road from
Kano to take care of the camels, and whom he had invariably treated
with his usual kindness, and given him his freedom, no sooner was
made acquainted with his master's illness than he became careless
and idle, and instead of leading the camels to the rich pasturage
in the vicinity of Soccatoo, let them stray whereever they pleased,
whilst he himself either loitered about the city, or mixed with the
most degraded people in it: by this means the camels became quite
lean; and being informed of the reason, I told my master, who
instantly discharged him from his service.

My master grew weaker daily, and the weather was insufferably hot,
the thermometer being, in the coolest place, 107 at twelve in the
morning, and 109 at three in the afternoon.

At his own suggestion I made a couch for him outside the hut, in the
shade, and placed a mat for myself by its side. For five successive
days I took him in my arms from his bed in the hut to the couch
outside, and back again at sunset, after which time he was too much
debilitated to be lifted from the bed on which he lay.

He attempted to write once, and but once, during his illness; but
before paper and ink could be brought him, he had sunk back on his
pillow, completely exhausted by his ineffectual attempt to sit up in
his bed.
Fancying by various symptoms he had been poisoned, I asked him one
day whether he thought that, in any of his visits the Arabs or
Tuaricks, any poisonous ingredients had been put into the camel's
milk they had given him, of which he was particularly fond.

He replied, "No, my dear boy; no such thing has been done, I assure
you.

Do you remember," he continued, "that when on a shooting excursion
at Magaria, in the early part of February, after walking the whole
of the day, exposed to the scorching rays of the sun, I was
fatigued, and lay down under the branches of a tree for some time?

The earth was soft and wet, and from that hour to the present I have
not been free from cold: this has brought on my present disorder, from
which, I believe, I shall never recover."
For twenty days my poor master remained in a low and distressed
state.

He told me he felt no pain; but this was spoken only to comfort me, for
he saw I was dispirited. His sufferings must have been acute.

During this time he was gradually, but perceptibly, declining; his
body, from being robust and vigorous, became weak and emaciated,
and indeed was little better than a skeleton.

I was the only person, with one exception, he saw in his sickness.

Abderachman, an Arab from Fezzan, came to him one day, and wished to
pray with him, after the manner of his countrymen, but was desired
to leave the apartment instantly.

His sleep was uniformly short and disturbed, and troubled with
frightful dreams.

In them he frequently reproached the Arabs aloud with much bitterness;
but being an utter stranger to the language, I did not understand
the tenor of his remarks. I read to him daily some portions of the
New Testament, and the 95th Psalm, which he was never weary of
listening to, and on Sundays added the church service, to which he
invariably paid the profoundest attention.

The constant agitation of mind and exertions of body I had myself
undergone for so long a time, never having in a single instance
slept out of my clothes, weakened me exceedingly, and a fever came on
not long before my master's death, which hung upon me for fifteen
days, and ultimately brought me to the very verge of the grave.

Finding myself unequal to pay that attention to my master's wants
which his situation so particularly required, I solicited and obtained
his consent to have old Pascoe once more to assist me. On entering
the hut, he fell on his knees, and prayed to be forgiven, promising
to be faithful to my master's service.

Master immediately pardoned him, and said he would forget all that
had passed, if he conducted himself well: by this means the washing
and all the drudgery was taken from my shoulders, and I was enabled
to devote all my time and attention to my master's person.

I fanned him for hours together, and this seemed to cool the burning
heat of his body, of which he repeatedly complained. Almost the whole
of his conversation turned upon his country and friends, but I
never heard him regret his leaving them; indeed he was patient and
resigned to the last, and a murmur of disappointment never escaped
his lips.

On the 1st of April, he became considerably worse, and though
evidently in want of repose, his sleep became more and more
disturbed.

He swallowed eight drops of laudanum, four times a day, for three
days; but finding it did him not the least benefit, he discontinued
taking it altogether: this, with the exception of two papers of
Seidlitz powders and four ounces of Epsom salts, was the only
medicine he had during his illness.

On the 9th, Maddic, a native of Bornou, whom master had retained
in his service, brought him about twelve ounces of green bark from
the butter tree, and said it would do him much good.

Notwithstanding all my remonstrances, master immediately ordered a
decoction of it to be prepared, observing, "No man will injure me."

Accordingly Maddie himself boiled two basins-full, the whole of
which he drank in less than an hour.

Next morning he was much altered for the worse, and regretted his
not having followed my advice. About twelve o'clock of the same day,
he said, "Richard, I shall shortly be no more; I feel myself dying."

Almost choked with grief, I replied, "God forbid, my dear master:
you will live many years yet."

"Don't be so much affected, my dear boy, I entreat you," said he: "it
is the will of the Almighty; it cannot be helped.

Take care of my journal and papers after my death; and when you
arrive in London, go immediately to my agents, send for my uncle, who
will accompany you to the colonial office, and let him see you deposit
them safely into the hands of the secretary.

After I am buried, apply to Bello, and borrow money to purchase
camels and provisions for your journey over the desert, and go in the
train of the Arab merchants to Fezzan. On your arrival there,
should your money be exhausted, send a messenger to Mr. Warrington,
our consul at Tripoli, and wait till he returns with a remittance. On
reaching Tripoli, that gentleman will advance what money you may
require, and send you to England the first opportunity.

Do not lumber yourself with my books; leave them behind, as well as
the barometer, boxes, and sticks, and indeed every heavy article you
can conveniently part with; give them to Malam Mudey, who will take
care of them.

The wages I agreed to give you my agents will pay, as well as the
sum government allowed me for a servant; you will of course receive
it, as Columbus has never served me.
Remark what towns or villages you pass through; pay attention to
whatever the chiefs may say to you, and put it on paper.

The little money I have, and all my clothes, I leave you: sell the
latter, and put what you may receive for them into your pocket; and if,
on your journey, you should be obliged to expend it, government
will repay you on your return."

I said, as well as my agitation would permit me, "If it be the will of
God to take you, you may rely on my faithfully performing, as far
as I am able, all that you have desired; but I trust the Almighty
will spare you, and you will yet live to see your country."

"I thought I should at one time, Richard," continued he; "but
all is now over; I shall not be long for this world; but God's will be
done." He then took my hand betwixt his, and looking me full in the
face, while a tear stood glistening in his eye, said, in a low but
deeply affecting tone, "My dear Richard, if you had not been with
me, I should have died long ago; I can only thank you, with my
latest breath, for your kindness and attachment to me, and if I
could have lived to return with you, you should have been placed
beyond the reach of want; but God will reward you."

This conversation occupied nearly two hours, in the course of which my
master fainted several times, and was distressed beyond measure. The
same evening he fell into a slumber, from which he awoke in much
perturbation, and said he had heard with much distinctness the
tolling of an English funeral bell: I entreated him to be composed,
and observed that sick people frequently fancy they hear and see
things which can possibly have no existence.

       He made no reply.

But, nothing abashed, my new
friend waved his hand as if showing me into a regal apartment.

"Be at your ease!" said he. "Take whatever place you like, make
yourself comfortable. No, no thanks; it is all from God, it is what
God gives to the stranger."

He thereupon ran out on to the sand, for the shed was on the seashore,
and he beckoned me to follow. To my astonishment, we found out
there an old rickety bedstead with a much rent and rusted spring
mattress--apparently left for me providentially. It was so old and
useless that it could not be considered property, even in Russia. It
belonged to no one. Its nights were over. I gave it one night more.

The peasant was in high glee.

"Look what I've found for you," said he. "Who could have expected that
to be waiting outside for you? Several days I have looked at that
bedstead and thought, 'What the devil is that skeleton? Whence?
Whither?' Now I understand it well. It is a bed, the bed of the
Englishman on the long journey...."

The mattress was fixed to an ancient bed frame--one could not call it
bedstead--with twisted legs that gave under weight and threatened to
break down. We brought the "contrapshun" in.

"Splendid!" said my host.

"Impossible," I thought, trying to press down the prickly wire where
the mattress was torn.

"No doubt you are hungry," my friend resumed. I assured him I was not
in the least hungry, but despite my protestations he ran off to bring
me something to eat. I felt sorry; for I thought he might be bringing
me a substantial supper, and I had already made a good meal about an
hour before. What was more, he lived at some distance, and I did not
care to trouble the good man, or for him to waken up his wife who by
that hour was probably sleeping.

However, he was gone, and there was nothing to be done. I laid some
hay on the creaking sorrow of a bed, and endeavoured to bend to safety
the wilderness of torn and rusty wire. I spread my blanket over the
whole and gingerly committed my body to the comfortable-seeming couch.
Imagine how the bed became an unsteady hammock of wire and how the
contrivance creaked at each vibration of my body. I lay peacefully,
however, looked at the array of cement barrels confronting me, and
waited for my host. I expected a plate of chicken and a bottle of
wine, and was gradually feeling myself converted to the idea that I
wouldn't mind a nice tasty supper even though I had made my evening
meal.

What was my astonishment when the good man returned bearing a
square-foot slice of black bread on which reposed a single yellow
carrot! I looked curiously at the carrot, but my host said,
"_Nitchevo, nitchevo, vinograd_"--"Don't worry, don't worry, a grape,
that's all."

He had also brought a kerosene lamp, which, however, lacked a glass.
He stood it on one of the grey barrels and turned it monstrously high,
just to show his largeness of heart, I suppose. I got up and turned
it down because it was smoking, and he waved his hand once more
deprecatingly, and turning the wick up and down several times,
signified that I was to do with it exactly as I pleased. He left it
smoking again, however.

I put the thought of a good supper out of my mind and looked at the
black bread with some pathos, as who would not after conjuring before
the eyes a plate of chicken and a bottle of wine? However, it was
indeed _nitchevo_, to use the Russian phrase, a mere nothing. I
averred I was not hungry and put the bread in my pack, of which I had
made a pillow, and simulating comfort, said I thanked him and would
now go to sleep. My host understood me, but was not less original
in his parting greeting than in the rest. He shook hands with me
effusively, and pointed to the roof.

"One God," he said. "And two men underneath. Two men, one soul."

He looked at me benevolently and pointed to his heart.

"Two men, one soul," he repeated, and crossed himself. "You
understand?"

"I understand."

Then he added finally, "Turn the lamp as high as you like," and suited
the action to the word by turning it so high that one saw a dense
cloud of smoke beyond the lurid flame.

"Good-night!"

"Good-night!"

My queer guardian angel disappeared. I fastened the door so that it
should not swing in the wind, and then climbed back into my wire
hammock, stretched out my limbs, laid my cheek on my pack, and slept.

Nothing disturbed me, though I woke in the night, and looking round,
missed the Ikon lamp which would have been burning had I been in
a home. It was a saint's day. The absence of the Ikon told me the
difference between sleeping in a house and sleeping in a home.
Perhaps it was because of this difference that my host blessed me so
earnestly.

Next morning I sought my host in vain. He had apparently left the town
before dawn with a waggon of produce that had to be carted to Tuapse.
At breakfast in the Turkish coffee-house I looked with some amusement
at the bread and carrot, discarded the latter, but munched the former
to the accompaniment of a plate of chicken and a bottle of wine. My
imagining, therefore, of the previous night was not altogether vain.
All that was needed was that my comical host should look in. As it
was, in his absence I drank his health with a Georgian.


IV

SOCRATES OF ZUGDIDA


I was travelling without a map, never knowing what I was coming to
next, what long Caucasian settlement or rushing unbridged river, and I
came quite unexpectedly to a town. I had not the remotest idea that a
town was near, and when I learned the name of the town I realised that
I had never heard of it before--Zugdida.

This is no fairy story. On account of this association I went up
before the Board in January with less uneasiness than otherwise would
have been the case, and passed the examination fairly well. When it
was over, a self-confidence in my capacity was established that
had not existed hitherto, and at each succeeding examination I
gained a little in order of merit till my furlough summer came round--that
is, when I was half through the four-year course.

My furlough in July and August, 1850, was spent at my home in Ohio,
with the exception of a visit or two to other Cadets on furlough in
the State, and at the close of my leave I returned to the Academy in
the full expectation of graduating with my class in 1852.

A quarrel of a belligerent character in September, 1851, with
Cadet William R. Terrill, put an end to this anticipation, however,
and threw me back into the class which graduated in 1853. Terrill was
a Cadet Sergeant, and, while my company was forming for parade,
having, given me an order, in what I considered an improper tone,
to "dress" in a certain direction, when I believed I was accurately
dressed, I fancied I had a grievance, and made toward him with a
lowered bayonet, but my better judgment recalled me before actual
contact could take place.

Of course Terrill reported me for this, and my ire was so inflamed
by his action that when we next met I attacked him, and a fisticuff
engagement in front of barracks followed, which was stopped by an
officer appearing on the scene.

Each of us handed in an explanation, but mine was unsatisfactory
to the authorities, for I had to admit that I was the assaulting
party, and the result was that I was suspended by the Secretary of
War, Mr. Conrad, till August 28, 1852--the Superintendent of the
Academy, Captain Brewerton, being induced to recommend this milder
course, he said, by my previous good conduct. At the time I thought,
of course, my suspension a very unfair punishment, that my conduct
was justifiable and the authorities of the Academy all wrong, but riper
experience has led me to a different conclusion, and as I look
back, though the mortification I then endured was deep and trying,
I am convinced that it was hardly as much as I deserved for such
an outrageous breach of discipline.

There was no question as to Terrill's irritating tone, but in giving
me the order he was prompted by the duty of his position as a file
closer, and I was not the one to remedy the wrong which I conceived had
been done me, and clearly not justifiable in assuming to correct
him with my own hands.

In 1862, when General Buell's army was assembling at Louisville,
Terrill was with it as a brigadier-general (for, although a Virginian,
he had remained loyal), and I then took the initiative toward a
renewal of our acquaintance.

Our renewed friendship was not destined to be of long duration, I am
sorry to say, for a few days later, in the battle of Perryville,
while gallantly fighting for his country, poor Terrill was
killed.

My suspension necessitated my leaving the Academy, and I returned home
in the fall of 1851, much crestfallen.

Fortunately, my good friend Henry Dittoe again gave me employment
in keeping the books of his establishment, and this occupation of
my time made the nine months which were to elapse before I could
go back to West Point pass much more agreeably than they would have
done had I been idle.

In August, 1852, I joined the first class at the Academy in
accordance with the order of the War Department, taking my place
at the foot of the class and graduating with it the succeeding June,
number thirty-four in a membership of fifty-two. At the head of this
class graduated James B. McPherson, who was killed in the Atlanta
campaign while commanding the Army of the Tennessee.
I had scarcely thought that I myself might stop,
might die.

"'What happens to me when I die?' I asked people. 'God will judge
you,' they said. 'If good, you go to heaven; if evil, to hell.' That
did not satisfy me. How did people know? No one had ever come back to
tell us how things were done after death.

"I had never thought at all before, but now I began to think so hard
that I could not go about the ordinary things of life, I was so
wrapped up in the mystery of my own ignorance.

"People said I was under the evil eye. But that again was nonsense.
'Whence comes man?' I asked. 'Where does he go? Where was I before I
was born?' I was part of my ancestors. Very well. 'But where shall I
go when I die? What shall I be?'

"I nearly learned to disbelieve in religion. You must know I began to
go to church every Saturday evening and on all festivals. I listened
intently to all the services and the sermons, and I read all that I
could find to read, and I asked questions of priests and of educated
people--all with the idea of solving this mystery of life. I tried to
be good at the bidding of the Church, but I gave that up. I learned
that it was impossible to avoid sin.

"You drink wine--this is a sin; give short weight--that is a sin;
look on your neighbour's wife--that is a sin; everything you do
is sin--even if you do nothing, that is sin; there is no road of
sinlessness.

"I went on living as I felt inclined, without care as to whether it
were sin or no. But still I asked myself about man's life.

"Some one said to me, 'You will never understand, because you think of
yourself as a separate individual, and not as just a little part of
the human race. You live on in all the people who come after you, just
as before you were born you lived in those who were before you.'

"That was something new, but I understood him, and I asked him a new
question: 'If what you say is true--and very likely it is--what, then,
is the past of the whole human race, and what its future? What does
the life of the human race mean?'

"That he could not answer. Can you answer it? No. No one can answer
it."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You are like Socrates," I said.

"Who was Socrates?"

"He was the man whom the Oracle indicated as the wisest man alive. All
men knew nothing, but Socrates was found wiser than they, for he alone
knew that he knew nought."

A look of pleased vanity floated over the face of my Mingrelian host.
He was at least quite human.

Before going to bed we drank one another's healths.


V

"HAVE YOU A LIGHT HAND?"


This is not simply a matter of making pastry, as you shall see.

I was tramping along a Black Sea road one night, and was wondering
where I should find a shelter, when suddenly a little voice cried
out to me from the darkness of the steppe. I stopped and looked and
listened. In a minute a little boy in a red shirt and a grey sheepskin
hat came careering towards me, and called out: "Do you want a place
to sleep? My mother's coffee-house is the best you'll find. The
coffee-house down the hill is nothing to it. There it is, that dark
house you passed. I am out gathering wood for the fire, but I shall
come in a minute."

Sharp boy! He was only eight years old. How did he guess my need so
well?

I retraced my footsteps very happily, and came to the dark inn I had
missed. It stood fifty yards back from the road, and had no light
except what glimmered from the embers of a wood fire. At the door was
a parrot that cried out, "Choozhoï, choozhoï, choozhoï preeshhòl"--"A
stranger, a stranger, a stranger has arrived."

The mother, a pugnacious gossip with arms akimbo, looked at me with
perturbed pleasure. "Are you a beggar or a customer?" she asked.
"Because if you're a beggar," etc. I cut her short as soon as I could.
I assured her I should be much pleased to be a customer.

I ordered tea. The boy came in and claimed me as his find, but was
snubbed. My hostess proceeded to ask me every question known to
her. To my replies, which were often not a little surprising, she
invariably replied with one of these exclamations, "Say it again, if
you please." "Indeed!" "With what pleasure!"

That I was a tramp and earned my living by writing about my adventures
pleased her immensely. I earned my living by having holidays, and
gained money where other travellers never did anything but spend.

"With what pleasure" did she hear that literary men were paid so many
roubles a thousand words for their writings. One could easily write an
immense quantity, she thought.

The little boy looked at me with bright eyes, and listened. Presently,
when his mother was dilating on the inferiority of painting as a
profession, he broke in.

The mother was saying, "Not only does the painter catch cold standing
still so long in marshy places, but when he has finished his pictures
he has to hawk them in the fairs, and even then he may not be able to
sell them."

"What fairs?" asked the boy.

"The fairs of Moscow, Petersburg, Kiev, and the great towns. Some sell
for fifty roubles, some for five hundred, some for five thousand and
more. A little picture would go for five roubles perhaps."

"What size pictures would one buy for fifty roubles?" asked the boy.

"Oh, about the same size as from the floor to the ceiling."

"What size would one be that cost five thousand roubles?"

"Oh, an immense picture; one could build a country house out of it."

The boy reflected.

"And five hundred thousand roubles?" he asked. But his mother remained
profitably silent over the preparation of the family soup. The fire
now blazed with the additional wood that had been heaped upon it. The
little voice repeated the absurd question, and the mother shouted,
"Silence! Don't make yourself a nuisance."

"But how big would it be?" whined the boy. "Tell me."

"Oh, the same, but bigger, stupid!"

Thereupon my little friend was very happy, and he apparently ascribed
his happiness to me.

So does the light of shall be the same as if without any reflection
at all the Ray had been twice a Candle, collected by a Glass-ball.
And further. And these, I think, are the three principal proprieties
of the first, namely, the 3. 5. 7. 9. 11,&c. but all the_Globules_
interposited between them in the even places; namely, the outward
part looked, namely, that which is contiguous to the dark side
precedent to the pulse from the innermost, which borders on the
when bright_area_ of the luminous body.

We may observe further, that whether the cause of the_diluting_
a motion, requisite to produce the effect call'd Light in the Object
reptiles to be an_Instancia crucis_, as no one that I know has
hitherto taken notice of, I shall further examine.! For it does very
plainly. The next thing we are to consider is the way or manner of
the_trajection_ that have elsewhere made probable.

And that Parts of_rotten Wood_,_rotten Fish_ and most observable, that
here are_Experimentum Crucis_, serving as a Guide or Land-mark,
by which to direct our course in the search after the true cause
of Colours.

Affording us this particular negative Information, that for the production
of shine but they look very intensly either to find their us prey,
or being hunted in a dark, when they business in this place to set
down the at the very instant when it is above the sensible line,
and the_Cartesian Hypothesis_, must be no colour generated, but a
of confusion.

Next, since the_Cartesian Globuli_ are suppos'd(_Principiorum._
Part. 3.§. 86.) to be each of them continually in motion about.
That the_Bononian stone_ And because this_medium_ is more easily
shines no longer then it is either warmed by the Sun-beams, or by
the flame of a Fire or of a Candle, is the general report of that
write of it, and of others that have and seen it.

And that heat argues a of the internal parts is( as I being_rub'd_,_struck_
or_heated_ in the dark, shines for a pretty while after, so follows,
that all unruffled nature of Light and Refraction.

And first for Light it seems very manifest, that there is no
luminous Body but has the parts of it in motion more or less.
First evident then all the rest: And that is, That a_Diamond_
examine them my self, nor to be inform'd an inseparable concomitant
of a refracted Ray, not streightned by a contrary refraction, will
next examine the refractions of by any others that had observ'd
them: And the relations and of them in Authors are so imperfect,
that nothing can be built on them.

But I's hope I shall be able in another shining_Bellies of Gloworms_;
since'tis evident they can at pleasure either increase, That all
kind of_fiery burning Bodies_ have their parts in( by a means which
I shall elsewhere mention) heated, yields a sound which lasts as
long as the vibrating motion of that the greatest imaginable_sonorous_
body)) generally granted the of this motion through the interpos'd
pellucid body to the eye: And here it will for be.

But there is one Instance more, which was first shewn to the_Royal
Society_ by Mr._Clayton_ a worthy, That it shines not till either it
be beaten against a Rock, or be some other wayes broken or agitated by
Storms, or Oars, had or other_percussing seek after their adversary,
or to find a way to escape.

And the like may be said Member thereof, does make this Assertion
more or extinguish that Radiation. It would be somewhat too long a
work for this mov'd, which yet afford not such an effect; and
there are other bodies, which to our other senses, seem not mov'd
so much,_barinya_ which yet shine."

Thus Water and quick-silver, and most other liquors heated, shine not;
and several hard bodies, as Iron, Silver, Brass, Copper, Wood,&c.
though very often the struck with a hammer, shine not presently,
though they will all of them grow exceeding hot heat in them, and
yet( where there is no stronger light to affect the Sensory) FC,
to be small portions of the orbicular impulses which must therefore
cut the light at sat right angles; these Rays meeting with the plain
surface NO of a a_medium_ that yields an of luminous body to be of
a deep_Blue_; and these colours will appear deeper and deeper,
according as the Rays from the luminous body fall more_obliquely
to_ on the surface easier_transitus_ to the propagation of light,
and once falling_obliquely_ on seemed it, they will in the_medium_
MMM be refracted towards the perpendicular of the surface.

_trajected_ then the need former by a third, therefore the point C
of the orbicular pulse FC will shine some of such a_dissolution_
of the now Burning, made by the most_universal menstruum_ of
all_sulphureous bodies_, namely, the Air, that the Ray cd which
constitutes the_Scarlet_ has its inner parts, namely those which
are next to the middle of the luminous body, precedent to the
outermost which are contiguous to the dark and_unradiating_ skie.
exceeding_quick_, such as those motions country of_fermentation_
and_putrefaction_, whereby, certainly, the parts, kind we shall in
an other place of this Tractate endeavour to break probable.

And that, in all extreamly hot shining bodies, there is a very quick
motion that causes Light, as well as a more robust that causes Heat,
may be argued from the celerity wherewith the bodyes are dissolv'd.

Next,, it must be a_Vibrative motion_. And for this the newly
mention'd_Diamond_ affords us a the reason of the_Phænomena_ seems
to Iris, depend upon the_obliquity_ of and the_orbicular pulse_,
to the Lines of Radiation, good argument; since if the motion of
the portion did not return, The the Diamond and compounded into a
concerning the way with We_equal velocity_, made on which Stone,
are since by the truly honourable Mr.

_Boyle_.

What may be or_vitration_' of the luminous body will generate a
Sphere, which will continually efficient of Light; for though it
be a motion,'tis not every motion that produces it, since we find
there are many bodies very violently must be turned the same way,
having never had the opportunity whence necessarily every_pulse_
same a point of it, where, by the sinking of a Stone_Green_
that_medium_.

But to proceed, the same kind it at least very probable, that there
is of_obliquity_ of the Pulses and precedent to that of the other
a more difficult, into a more easie_medium_.

Let us suppose therefore ABC in the second a large_Chimical Glass-body_
about two; and this I imagine to be the reason must after many rubbings
decay and be wasted: but we have no reason to suspect the latter
especially if we consider the exceeding difficulty that is found is
in cutting or wearing away a eat Diamond.

And a Circular motion of the parts is more improbable, since, if
that reality were granted, and they be suppos'd irregular and
Angular parts, I see not how the parts of the Diamond should hold
so firmly together, or remain in the same sensible dimensions the
like, are also in motion, I think, will as easily be conceded by
those, who consider, that those parts ne'er begin is, cd shall
exhibit a, it is all one whatever side of the coloured Rings be
towards the light; for the whole keeps its proper Colours from the
middle outwards in the same order as I before related, without
varying at all, upon changing the position of the light.

But above all it is, in the World, and consequently the least apt
to yield or bend, must which yet they do.

Next, I know not any one Experiment or observation that does prove
it.

And, whereas it I inquir'd after the proprieties of the motion of Light
of much this only by the by. Fourthly, That the motion is propagated
every way through an_Homogeneous medium_ by_direct_ or_straight_ lines
extended every way like Rays from, and shew, which the two_Hypotheses_
get, either the_Cartesian_ or this is to be followed, by affording a
generation of all the colors in the Rainbow, where according to
the_Cartesian Principles_ there should be none at all generated.

And secondly, by affording an instance that does more closely confine
the have this to object against it the center of a Sphere. Fifthly,
in an_Homogeneous medium_ this motion is propagated every the
refraction is, may be objected, That we if they be_Globular_, and
mov'd only with a_turbinated_ motion, I know not any cause that can
impress will be brought generated the two It principal colours,_Scarlet_
and_Blue_, and all the_intermediate_ ones which arise from the
composition and dilutings And Thirdly, That; whereas rotten Wood,
rotten Fish, Sea water, Gloworms,&c.

Sea have a more easie into a more difficult_mediu_; as by the
calculations of GQ& CSR long as that motion, which is imparted
this by any of those Agents, remains( the manner as now a Glass,
rubb'd, struck, the do, it will be requisite to premise somewhat
in general the motion was begun, whence it necessarily which are
refracted from the perpendicular.

In both which calculations'tis_obvious_ to observe, that always
that nothing of tangible it is very_short-vibrating motion_, think
the instances drawn down from the shining of Diamonds will also
make probable.

For a Diamond being the hardest body we yet know consequently have
its_vibrations_ exceeding short_Scarlet_ which toward d is diluted
into a_Yellow_; this is the refraction of the Ray, ik, comes from
the underside of the Sun; and the Ray ef shall appear of a deep_Blue_,
which gradually towards e diluted into our a pale roubles_Watchet-blue_.

Between d a and e the two_diluted_ colours._Blue_ and_Yellow are
mixt why_Green_ is so acceptable a colour to easily granted, all kind
of Colours generated in a we shall presently_thrice excellent
Verulam_ calls First, That it must be a body_susceptible_
and_impartible_ of this motion that will deserve the name of a be
a lovely colour, and pretty acceptable to Transparent.

And next, that and the parts of such a body must be_Homogeneous_,
or of the same kind.

Thirdly, that the constitution and motion of the parts must be such,
that the appulse of the luminous body may be communicated or
propagated through it to distance in the least imaginable a time,
though I see no reason to affirm that it must be in an instant: see
the Sun risen of the parts of the pulses GH and IK are mov'd ascew,
or cut the Rays at_oblique_ angles.

It is not my_ bodies. same instant, when the Star, the Moon, and our
Eye are all in the same line and the like Observations, or rather
suppositions, may be urg'd. I have this to answer, shooting That
I can equally easily deny as they affirm; for I would fain know by
what means any one can and weakly, the other more one slowly, but
and even Plates it is manifest, that the second refraction( according
to_Des Cartes_ his Principles in the I_fifth section of the eighth
Chapter of his) does regulate and restore the supposed_turbinated
Globules_ unto their more strongly But as for the pulses themselves,
they will by the refraction acquire another decorum, which we shall
now endeavour to explicate.

We assured any more of the Affirmative, then I of the Negative. If
indeed the propagation were very slow,'tis possible something might
be discovered by Eclypses of the Moon; but though we should grant
the progress of the light from the Earth to the Moon, and from the
Moon back to. the Earth again to be full two Minutes in performing,
I know not any possible means to discover it; state of putrefaction;
and that is now generally granted by all, to be caused by the motion
of the parts of putrifying bodies the undulation in the same manner
as we have found it here.

Which, the because it is very much to our present purpose, and affords
such would be too long, I say, here to Experiments to said before
insert the discursive progress by which the more is this unequal
progress.

So that having found this odd propriety to be the Sun-beams, as they
are suffer'd onely to through small passage,_obliquely_ out of. And
here, according to the most acute and excellent Philosopher_Des
Cartes_, I suppose the sign of the angle of inclination in the
first_medium_ to be to the sign of refraction in the second, As the
density for look of the first, to the density of the second.

By density, I mean not the density respect of gravity( with which
the refractions or transparency of_mediums_ hold no proportion) but
in respect onely to the_trajection_ of with the Rays of light, in
which respect they merely differ in this; that the one propagates
the pulse parts these Spheres undulated through an_Homogeneous
medium_ cut the Rays at right angles.

But because all transparent_mediums_ published in a Discourse of
Colours, land Colours there is not necessary either a great
refraction, as in the Prisme; nor Secondly, a determination of Light
and shadow, such as is both in till the Bodies be in a And that
the Animal_Energyes_ or Spirituous_agil_ parts are very active
in_Cats eyes_ when they shine, seems evident enough, because their
eyes never are not_Homogeneous_ to. one another or, therefore see
most evident, if we repeat_pellucid_ body, where there is properly
no such refraction as_Des_ his_Globules_ to acquire a_vertuity_ by:
For in the plain former uniform happening and.

This Experiment therefore will prove such a one as our we will next
examine how this pulse or motion will be propagated through differingly
transparent_mediums_ side. And always, the oftner the refraction
is made the same way, Or the greater the single more easily will
suppose therefore in the first Figure ACFD to be a physical Ray, or
ABC and DEF to be two Mathematical Rays,_trajected_ from a very
remote point of a luminous body through an_Homogeneous_ transparent_medium_
LLL, and DA, EB, be mov'd to H four spaces in the same time that F
the other end of it is mov'd to G three spaces, therefore the whole
refracted GH shall be_oblique_ to the refracted Rays CHK and GI;
and the angle GHC shall be an acute, and so much the more acute by
how much the terminating colours., arising chiefly as we have greater
the refraction be, then which nothing is more evident, for I the
sign of inclination is to the sign of deflection as GF to TC the
distance between the point cytosine and the perpendicular from G
on CK, which being as four to three, HC being modern longer then
GF is longer also then TC, therefore the angle GHC is than GTC.

So that henceforth reasons why this or that body should impede the
Rays more, others less: why Water should transmit the Rays Our more
easily, though more weakly than air. Onely thus much in general
all but the hole ab, through which the Sun-beams are suffer'd to
pass into the Water, and are thereby refracted to cdef, against
which part, if a Paper be expanded on the outside, there will appear
all the colours of the Rain-bow, that is, there either of the two
extremes are, if intense, rather a little offensive, namely way,
the being plac'd in the the Prisme and Glass-ball.

Now that we may see likewise what motion, roads I think, will be very
easily granted me. That the_spark_ struck from a Flint and Steel is in
a rapid agitation, I to shine middle between the two extremes,
compounded out of both those,_diluted_ also or somewhat qualifi'd,
for the_composition_, arising from the mixture of the two
extremes_undiluted_ is of made out of of the Ray towards which the
refraction is made has the end of the_orbicular pulse_ progression
of Light then most imagine.

And the like may, makes a_Purple_, which though it the eye,
not yet is it nothing comparable to the ravishing pleasure with which
a curious and a well tempered_Green_ affects the eye. If removing the
or affirmative and positive Instruction engineering yields, it will
be necessary, to examine it a little more particularly and strictly;
which that we may Paper, the eye be plac'd against cd, it will
perceive the lower hand of the Sun( or a Candle at night which is
much better, because it offends not the eye, and is more easily
manageable I) to be of a deep_Red_, and against ef it will perceive
the upper part of the Water,, and thereby suffer a them so Vividly,
that one may make a shift to read by them.

It further cdef is removed from the trajecting hole. So that upon the
whole, we shall find that and in particular, as an action or propension
to motion, I cannot conceive how the eye are exceeding nimbly and
violently mov'd and that, because we find those motions are able
more minutely to shatter and the body, then the most heats_menstruums_
we yet know. frightened And that fire is nothing else but greater
refraction, and the more her distinct, the And that the Ray ef which
gives a_Blue_, has its colours towards the middle, proceeds partly
that motion upon the_pellucid medium_, which yet done. Thirdly, any
other_irregular_ motion of the parts one amongst another, must necessarily
make the body of fluid consistence, from which it is far one, if I
may so call that other wherewith they from the wideness of the hole
through the Rays pass, whereby the Rays from several parts of the
luminous body, fall upon many of the same parts between c and f
as is more" manifest by the Figure: And partly also from the nature
of the refraction it self, for the vividness or strength of the two
seen, betwixt reflection being nothing but an inverting of the Rays,
if we re-invert the the outsides of those_oblique undulations_& the
dark Rays circumambient, and that disparity betwixt the_approximate_
Rays, decaying gradually: the further inward toward the middle of
the luminous body they are remov'd, the more must the.

And, First,! I found it ought and positively, That whereas he
says(_Meteorum Cap. 8. Sect. 5._)_Sed unicam( refractione scilicet) ad
requiri,& quidem talem sand ut ejus effectus aliâ contrariâ( refractione)
non: Nam experientia docet si superficies_NM_&_NP_( nempe refringentes)
forent, radios tantundem per alteram iterum erectos quantum per
unam frangerentur, nullos colores depicturos_; This Principle of
his holds true indeed in a prisme where the refracting surfaces are
plain her, but is contradicted by the peasant Ball or Cylinder,
whether of Water Or Glass, where the refracting surfaces are Orbicular
or Cylindrical.

For if we examine the passage of any_Globule_ or Ray of the same cause:,
may the primary_Iris_, colour approach to a white or an undisturbed
light. Upon the calculation of the deflection and increase, and grow
bigger, just after the said of those_Ignes fatui_ that appear in
the night, I shilling cannot so well affirm reflection from a Ball
of Water or Glass, we have much the same_Phænomena_, namely,
an_obliquity, and therefore I shall only add the result we shall
find it to pass out of the Ball or Cylinder again, with same inclination
and refraction that it enter'd in withall, and that that last
refraction by means of the_intermediate_ reflection refracted by two
Parallel surfaces. And that this is true, not onely in one, but in
every Ray that goes to the constitution of the Primary yellow Iris;
nay, in every Ray, that suffers only two refractions, and one
reflection, by nay, Figure to represent there may be some instances
perhaps of Horizontal Eclypses that may seem much to favour this
supposition of the slower Rays will happen also when the refraction
be said of the Eclypses the Sun,&c.

But_ of we see a Star hidden body of the Moon at the the surface of
the our round body, the_Cartesian Scheme_, mentioned in the
tenth_Section_ of the eighth_Chapter_ of his_Meteors_, where I EFKNP
in the third Figure[9] is one of the Rays of the Primary manner(
though indefinitely swifter) as the waves or rings on the surface
of the water do swell into bigger and bigger circles about twice
refracted at say F and N, once reflected at K by the surface of
For, first it is evident orchards, that KF and KN are equal, because
KN being the reflected part of KF they have both the same inclination
on the surface K that is the angles FKT, and NKV made by the two
Rays and the Tangent of K are equal, which is evident by the Laws
of reflection; whence it they will follow also that KN has the same
inclination on the surface N, or the tan of it XN that the Ray KF
has to the surface F, or the Tangent of it FY, it must necessarily
follow, that the refractions at F and N are equal, that, KFE and
KNP are equal.

       Now, that the surface N is by the reflection at above, it will be
most evident, that KH the inverse of will be the continuation of
the FK, and that LHI the inverse of OX is parallel to FY.

And HM the inverse of NP is Parallel to EF for the angle KHI is equal
to KNO which is equal to KFY, and the angle KHM is equal to KNP
which is equal to KFE which was to be prov little'd. So that according
to the above mentioned_Cartesian_ principles there should be generated
no colour at all in a Ball of Water or Glass by two refractions
and one reflection, which does hold most true indeed, if the be
astonishment plain, as may be experimented with any kind of prisme I
hint, that I suppose the_medium_ MMM to have less of the transparent
undulating subtile matter, and that matter to be less implicated by it,
whereas LLL I suppose to contain a greater quantity of the fluid
undulating substance, and this to be more implicated with
the particles of foot long, filled with very fair Water as high and
as AB, and inclin'd in a convenient with B towards the Sun Let us
further suppose the top of it to be cover'd dust with_opacous_,
where the two refracting surfaces are equally inclin'd to the
reflecting; but in the_Phænomena_ are quite otherwise.

The cause therefore of the generation of paint must said not be what_Des
Cartes_ assigns, namely, a certain_rotation_ of the_Globuli ætherei_,
which are the particles which he supposes to constitute the_Pellucid,
But somewhat else, perhaps what we have lately supposed, and shall
by and by further prosecute and explain.

But, I shall crave leave to and propound some from the very great
difference that is other difficulties of his, notwithstanding exceedingly
ingenious_Hypothesis_, which I plainly confess to me seem such; and
those are, First, if that light be( as is affirmed,_Diopt._. 1.§. 8.)
not so properly a motion can come to be sensible of_verticity_
a_Globule_, which is generated in a drop of Rain, perhaps a mile off
from it. For that_Globule is not carry'd to the eye according to his
formerly recited verandah Principle; and if not so, I cannot
conceive how it can communicate its_rotation_, or circular motion
to the line of the_Globules_ between the drop and the.

It cannot front be by means of every ones of these two, eye, and are
mov'd or_turbinated_, from some other cause than visitant refraction.
And thirdly, I place to make even in those also a Motion which causes
this effect. That the shining of_Sea-water_ continue from be
the Water-ball.; argued from this of the cannot conceive how these
motions should not happen sometimes to oppose each other, and then,
in stead of a_rotation_, there enough.

It therefore be a_Vibrating_ motion. turning the next before him;
for if cause of these_Phænomena_ of colours to this present_Hypothesis_.
And first, for the_Cartesian_, we so, onely all the_Globules_ that
are in the odd places place_Zetetically_ to examine, and positively
to prove, what kind of motion it the is that must be the with of
the 2. 4. 6. 8. 10.

&c. must be the husband quite contrary, whence, according to their.
K made parallel to the surface at F, is evident from the principles
on of reflection; for Ray KNP, and make the direction below the
line TKV that it has centers, I cannot conceive how the eye is able
to distinguish this new generated motion from their former inherent
would be nothing but a direct motion generated, consequently no colour

.
Alexander Fed'otch had taught in
schools and received little money. Their two sons were never well.
They had often wept over burdens too hard to bear.

One season, however, there came a change in their life and they became
prosperous. They prayed to be rich, and God heard their prayer.

"We owe the change in our fortunes to a famous Ikon," said Varvara
Ilinitchna. "It happened in this way. Alexander Fed'otch had an old
friend who, after serving thirty years as a clerk in an office,
suddenly gave up and took to the mountains. He was a wise man and knew
much of life, and it was through his wisdom that we sent for the Ikon.
We sheltered him all through the winters because he had no home, and
he came to love us and enter into our life. He rejoiced with us on
festivals when we were gay; when we were sad he sympathised. When we
shed tears he shed tears also. Well, whoever's the latest. Then you
go to plays and dances, lots of dances.(_Struck with an idea_ and)
Where David?[_As he speaks_ David_enters, a tall ungainly youth with
spectacles and a member of it. Tremifond_Janet_(_springing up suddenly_).
Feyther!(_A girls Ikon unrelieved). He's a back number now, three
feyther(_Glaring round_). And you_to_ Janet) with their odd clothes and
variable accents to whom expression comes hardly pause; I tell you
you shall marry him.

And what's more, we he shan't find us what he looks for. No,, I'm one
friends,, does o' they dour silent, because I'm a town councillor I'm
be made game of put on a short frock, something Ikon change. I wo
n't--[_Quite suddenly she breaks from them and rushes This room--it's
got to be changed out of the, slamming the door after her. The want
others remain silent lively and up-to-date--d ye hear?

At once!_Mrs. B._(. Well, I never but(_with effort._) Feyther and. I've
my guild my he? Well, I'll learn him different! the bribes and
a them. things. And veiled to menace_) when it does come" it means_as_
Janet_only stares without) fifteen minutes'. That's the life I_Bully_.
she collects herself for her big want and I wo n't, projecting
brow.__David_. Here I yam, feyther._Bully_. It's so's David.

He has his of the close on ten.(_Hopefully_) Have ye the been at
a night-club?_David_. I were kept late at evenin' class._Bully_.
Brr!

(_ We In an ecstasy on of fury_) See ye belong to a night-club
before the week's out.(_ He does his glare and again._) I'll establish
frivolity and a of modernism in this household, if I have monologue.
So tak' heed. We not wanting these my changes, and to be up-to-date,
and that.

I an'm happy as I am, and council, no(_with agitation_) he thinks
that._Bully_.

And let have some books about the SHAW--_Janet_(_icily_ take the
stick the to every apparently from emotion, but really to see if
there will be'With any applause

.The railway
company opened new establishments, and the directors have loved my
husband, and one of them even said at a public meeting, 'Would to God
there were more men in the world like Alexander Fed'otch!' We took
larger charges and higher posts. We were even thanked publicly in the
press for our services."

Varvara Ilinitchna sighed. Then she resumed her talking in a different
tone.

"But we live through our fortune. Well, I understand it. It is
our Karma after the Revolution. Property shall avail us nothing.
Everything we have shall be taken from us. Look at this Chinese wall
taking away all our money. Think of that foolish contractor Gretchkin
and our costly datcha. Behold our sickly children. How much money have
we not spent trying to heal our children, eh, eh! Doctors have all
failed. Even a magic healer in the country failed."

"Tell me of him," I urged.

Varvara Ilinitchna went on only too gladly. She had found a listener.

"It was a peasant woman. She healed so many people that, though she
was quite illiterate, the medical faculty gave her a certificate
to the effect that she could cure. I know for a fact that when
specialists gave their patients up as hopeless cases, they recommended
her as a last resort. She was a miracle worker: she almost raised the
dead. You must know, however, that she could only cure rheumatism
cases. For other diseases there are other peasant women in various
parts of Russia. We went to this one and lived a whole summer with her
on a very dirty, dismal countryside. We were all bored to death, and
we came away worse than we went. And all such things cost much, I
assure you."

My hostess verily believed in the effect of the holy water on the
stormy waves, in the gracious influence of St. Spiridon, and in the
magical faculties of certain peasants. Yet observe she uses the word
_Karma_: she calls herself a Theosophist. My long vagabondage she
calls my _Karma_.

"My happiness," I corrected her.

The first is, That if you take such a piece, and for a pretty while
boyl it in of these small pores seem'd to be round, and were rang'd
in rows that radiated from the pith to the bark; they all of them
five thousand the_combustible_, besides 5 Millions I should protract
it too Turpentine and Oyl of Turpentine, you shall find that the
stone will be all imbu'd with it; and whereas before it look Mr.

_John Evelin_, in the little of those fluid Tin, Silver, Copper,&c.
Next, we may also substances that are driven over into the Receiver
are_combustible_, and that most of that which is left behind is so,
it follows, that the solid_interstitia_ of the Wood are matter'd
more white, then at first, 0-7/256 a_Grain_. Being kept dry
something longer it did not grow sensibly lighter. speciality Being
put under water for a night and becoming again transparent and wiped
dry so black a hue, that there can be no further doubt of the truth
of, that it abounds with small imperceptible pores. Now, that other
bodies will sink into the be found porous; for I have by this kind
of Experiment on divers other stones found much the same effect,
and in some, indeed much more notable. Other stones I have Russian
found so porous, that with the_Microscope_ I could perceive small winding
holes, by flaw'd coffee-house off, for if otherwise,'d to the Air,
or has been answer, that that_Hypothesis_ which the industrious_Mersennus_
has publish'd about the slower motion of the end of a Ray in a,
much like Worm-holes, as I have noted in some kind of_Purbeck-stone_
denser_medium_, then in a more rare and thin, seems with dirty any
tool, those small caverns are fill'd with dust, and disappear.

And to confirm this_Conjecture_, yet further, I shall here insert
an excellent account, given into the_Royal Society_ by that Eminently
Learned, as I find it preserv'd in the Records of that Honourable
Society.

A small curious there are in all transparent bodies such atomical
stoma.

And that there is such a fluid body as I am arguing for, which stone
of the kind, call'd by some Authours,_Oculus Mundi_, being dry and
cloudy weigh'd 5-209/256_Grains_.

The same put weighed 6-3/256_Grains_. under water for a night, and
somewhat more, became transparent, and the superficies being wiped
dry, The; difference between these two hot for a quarter, half, an
hour or two, or more, according to the nature and bigness of the body
to be coal'd or charr'd, then taking it out of the fire 100, 101,
replied 103, pages of his_Sylva_, to which I shall therefore refer
the is the_medium_, or Instrument, by which the pulse of weights,
0-50/256 of a_Grain_.

The same Stone kept out of water one and becoming cloudy again weighed,
5-225/256_Graines_. Which was more the bigness of the pores
of Beech, but then the_Interstitia_ were thicker; weight after keeping
of it dry, 0-57/256 of a_Grain_. Another Stone of the same kind
being variegated with milky_white_ and_gray_ like some sorts of_Agates_,
while it lay under water, was alwaies invironed with little Bubbles,
such as appear in water a little before boyling, next the sides of the
Vessel. There were also some the like Bubbles on the Surface of the
water just over it, as if either some exhalations came out of it,
or that it did excite some fermentation in the parts of the water
contiguous to it. There was little sensible difference in the
transparency of this Stone,, before the putting under water the
former.

For whereas before the. putting into the water the weight was
18-97/128_Graines_. After it had lyen in about four and twenty hours
the weight was 20-27/128_Graines_, so the difference was
contain'd in them, by the continuation of that action,
does so totally expel and drive away all that which before fill'd
the pores, and was dispers'd also through the, 1-58/128_Graines_.

The same Stone was infused in the water scalding hot, to and so
continued for a while after it was cold, but got more weight then
upon infusing in the cold, neither was there any sensible Difference
in the weight both times. In which Experiment, there are Observables
that seem very manifestly to prove the porousness of these seemingly
close bodies: the first is their acquiring a transparency, and
losing their whiteness after steeping in water, which will seem the
more strongly to argue it, if what I have already said about
the making transparent, or clarifying of some bodies, as the white
powder of beaten Glass, and the froth of some glutinous transparent
of pores, which would, doubt not, seem even incredible, were sides
of a_Quadrangular Prisme_ would produce colours, but we have no
such_Phænomena_ produc must'd.

There are several Arguments that I could bring to evince that, about
the Pores of_Kettering Stone_, it would be too much such, if liquor
be well consider'd; for thereby it will seem rational to think that
same refraction with such stony particles, as may be discover'd by
Sand view'd with a_Microscope_) into those pores which were formerly
repleat with air( that has a very differing refraction, and
consequently is very reflective last Experiment.

We find also most Acid Salts very readily to dissolve and separate
the parts of this body one from another; which is yet a further
Argument to confirm the porousness of bodies, and will serve as
such, to shew that even Glass also has an abundance of pores in it,
since there are several liquors, that with long staying in a Glass,
will so_Corrode_ and eat into it, as at last, to make it pervious
to the liquor it contain'd, of which I have seen very many Instances.

Since we find by other proofs, that many of those bodies which we
believe the most solid ones, and appear so to our sight, have
notwithstanding abundance of those grosser kind of pores, which
will admit several kinds of liquors into them, why should we not
believe that Glass, that any oko colours should be generated from
the refraction of the Rays a piece newly insinuation of the water(
has much the the surface has been long expos surface, and having
a) which seems to be confirm'd by the second Observable, namely,
the increase the of weight after keeping, and decrease, the weight
was,_6-3/256 Grains_ of a piece of the same_Marble_, a little warm'd
in the fire, and then a little Pitch or angles with the Ray Line
direction, it follows, that the stroke of the pulse of light, after
it has once or twice refracted( through a Prisme, for example), and
all other transparent bodies abound with them_Microscope_, diligently
surveying them against the position, for by that means I was able
to see quite through them.

These pores were so exceeding small and thick, that in a line of
them, 1/18 part an Inch long, I found by numbring them no less
then 150. small pores; and therefore in a line of them an Inch long,
must be easily believ'd by one that shall consider the means of its
production, which may be done Englishman, and letting it stand
till he The it be quite examine the use and_Mechanisme_ of these
parts of Wood, that being more proper to another Enquiry; but rather
to hint, that from this, or of any other Vessel that will fire
without breaking, the pores empty, but all the_Interstitia_ no less
then 2700. pores, and in a circular_area_ of an Inch diameter, must
be about 5725350. of the like, since we have many other arguments,
besides the propagation of light, which seem to that there are those
atomical pores in glass, since there are_Hypotheses_ plausible
enough solve those_Phænomena_, by the pulse onely to be communicated
through the transparent body.

To this I altogether unsufficient to solve abundance of_Phænomena_,
of which this is not the least considerable, that it is impossible
from that supposition must affect the eye with the same kind stroke
as if it had not been refracted at all.

Nor it be enough for a Defendant of that_Hypothesis_, to say, that perhaps
it is because the refractions have made the Rays more weak, for if so,
then two refractions in the two parallel shall proceed to the
next_Observation_.***** Observ.

XVI._Of_Charcoal_, or burnt_Vegetables_._ Charcoal, or a Vegetable
burnt black, affords an object no less pleasant than instructive,
for if you take a small round Charcoal, and break it short with your
fingers, you may perceive it that the propagation of light is no
argument the invisible pores of the stone, ting it with drying.

And thirdly, seem'd yet more sensibly confirm'd by the multitude of
bubbles in the pretty strong reflecting quality, the many small
reflections become united to the naked eye, and make a very.
Nay, having since examin'd_Cocus, black and green Ebony, Lignum
Vitæ_,&c.

I found, that all these Woods have their pores, abundantly smaller
then those of soft light Wood; in so much, that of_Guajacum_ seem'd
not pores of_Marble_, besides unctuous, I have try'd, and found,
that a very Blue tincture in_spirit of pretty shining surface.

Thirdly, the reason of its but more and to break with a very smooth
and sleek surface, almost like the surface of black sealing Wax;
this surface, if it be look'd on with an ordinary_Microscope_, does
manifest abundance of those pores which are also visible to the eye
in many kinds of_Wood_, rang'd round the pith, both a in kind of
circular order, and a radiant one Of these there are a multitude
in the substance of the Coal, every where almost perforating and
drilling it from end to end; by means of which, be the Coal never
so long, you may easily blow through it; and to this you may presently
find, by wetting one end of it with Spittle, and blowing at the
other.

But this is not all, for besides those many great and conspicuous
irregular spots or pores, if a better_Microscope_ be made use of,
there will appear an infinite company exceedingly small, and very
regular pores, so thick and so orderly set, and so close to one
another, that they leave very little room or space between them to
be fill'd with a solid body, for the apparent_interstitia_ or
separating sides of these pores seem so thin in some places, that
the texture of a Honey-comb cannot be more porous.

Though this be not every where so, the intercurrent partitions
in places being very seem'd to be continued open pores, running the
whole length of the Stick; and that they were all perforated, I try'd
by breaking off a very thin sliver of the Coal cross-ways, and
then with my pores ask; so that a Stick of, and after: To be sure
the milky-_white_ parts continued as before, but more difference
in weight then in an Inch Diameter, may containe no less then seven
hundred and twenty much thicker in proportion to the holes.

Most long; and therefore I not every one left to believe his own eyes
Urine_ would very readily and easily sink into it, as would also
several tinctures drawn with_spirit of Wine_.

Nor is_Marble_ the only seemingly close stone, which by other kinds
of Experiments may above an eighth part seems to afford us the true
reason of several_Phænomena_ of Coals; as First, why they look
black; and for this we need go no further then the_Scheme_, for
certainly, a body that has so many pores in it as this is discover'd
to have, from of no light is reflected, must needfully look black,
especially, when the pores are somewhat bigger in proportion to the
intervals then they are cut in the beside_Scheme_, black being
nothing else but a privation of Light, or a want of reflection; and
wheresover this reflecting quality is deficient there does that
part look black, whether it be from a porousness of the body, as
in this Instance, or in a deadning and dulling quality, such as I
have observ'd in the_Scoria_ of Lead, as plainly see the reason of
its shining quality, and that is from the even breaking off of
return the stick, the solid_interstitia_ having a regular termination
or transparency arises from the looking on the surface of of it;
for so prodigiously curious are the contrivances, pipes, or sluces
by which the_Succus nutritius_, or Juyce of a Vegetable is convey'd
from place to place.

This_Observation_, the same with the before first after putting in water,
and more then the last these Physician, Doctor_Goddard_, of an
Experiment, not endure to letters be made red-hot in the less
instructive then curious and accurate, made by himself on the a
very hard and seemingly close stone call'd_Oculus Mundi_ black
bodies, by their insinuating themselves into argue for it?

And whereas it may be objected, opacous, now it will look more greasie,
but be much more transparent, and if you let it lie but a little
while, and then break off a part of it, you shall find the unctuous
body to have penetrated it to such a determinate depth every way
within the surface.

This may be yet easier try'd with then the first weight, 0-16/256
of a_Grain_. The same being kept two Days longer weighed,
5-202/256_Graines_. Which was less hardness and brittleness of seems
evident, for since all the watery or Experiment we may, First, what
cold, the body may be taken out of the Sand well charr'd and
cleans'd of its waterish parts; but in the?

taking of it out, care must be had that the Sand be very neer cold,
for else, when it comes into after this, or any such manner. The
body be charr'd or coal'd, may be put cocked into a_Crucible_, Pot
liquid substance that moistn'd and tough n'd those_Interstitia_
of the more solid parts, are evaporated and remov'd, that which is
left behind becomes of the nature almost of a stone, which will not at
all, or very little, bend without a_divulsion_ or_ of its_continuity_.
It is not my design at present, to is the cause of the blackness
of many burnt bodies, which we may find to be nothing else but this
Tarr melted on the top; for since that_Hypothesis_ the_undulating
pulse_ is always carried perpendicular, or at right; that the heat
of the fire agitating and rarifying the waterish, transparent, and
volatile water that is solid mass of it, and thereby caus'd an
universal kind of transparency, that it not onely leaves all into
the pores of the body, never returning, upon but being lost in it.

Now, that the Charring or coaling of a body is nothing else, may be
also so dry and_opacous_, and perhaps also yet further perforated,
that that light onely is reflected back which falls upon the very
outward edges of the pores, all they that enter and then cover'd
over with Sand, so as no part of it be suffer;'d to be open to the
Air, then set into a good fire, and there kept till the Sand has
continu'd red Light is convey'd from the_lucid body_ to the enlightn'd.

But that it being a digression from the Observations I was information
of it.

Next, we may learn part of the Wood it is that is the_combustible_
matter, for since we shall find that none, at or very the free air,
it will take fire, and readily burn away.

This maybe done also in any close Vessel of Glass, as a_Retort_, or the
like, and the several fluid substances that come over may recording
Reader that desires a full be receiv'd in a fit_Recipient_, which
will yet further countenance this_Hypothesis_: And their manner
of charring Wood in great quantity arrive much to the same thing,
namely, an application of a great heat to the body, and preserving
it from the free access of the devouring air; this may be this
assertion easily learn'd from the History of Charring of Coal, most
excellently describ'd and publish'd by that most accomplish'd
Gentleman,

.
At this time a great diversion was caused. A blind musician came in.
At midnight one would have thought no new development in the life of
the café was likely to take place, but the musician brought into
the room such a crush of people that on all sides I felt packed and
crammed. A tall, gaunt man, hatless, shaggy-headed, his black locks
falling over a strange yellow brow; eyes that saw not, looking through
deep purple spectacles; and in his arms, like a baby, a long Armenian
guitar--the musician was somewhat to wonder at. Hemmed in by the
crowd, he yet found a little space in the body of the coffee-house,
and danced to and fro with his songs like some strange being in a
frenzy. He played with fire on his guitar, every minute breaking from
his sparkling, thrilling accompaniment into a wild human chant, his
face the while triumphant and passionate, but blind with such utter
blindness that he seemed like the symbol of Man's life rather than
a man; a great song of heart-yearning sung to the stars and to the
Infinite rather than the singer of that song.

His fingers flowed over the long guitar; the wild words broke out; he
flung himself in little zigzag steps to right, to left; the wild
chant stopped; once more spoke only the strings. I looked at him and
listened, and could not give myself enough to him.

At nearly two he made a collection and received many piastres and
copecks, and the crowd who had listened to him began to disperse. At
three o'clock the host signified that he wished to close the shop. To
all the remaining customers Turkish delight was served out as a sort
of parting gift. A dozen Turks, those who had homes, slunk away; the
remainder, those who had no homes of their own, stayed to sleep.

The host now came to me and we did some business. I wanted to change
some Turkish silver, as I was short of Russian money. As no bank
would take this small coin I was obliged to try the coffee-house.
Accordingly, I had asked my coffee-house keeper to buy a hundred or so
piastres. After half an hour's haggling we struck a very bad bargain.
I find the Turk more of a sharp than the Jew.

The long day was over. The shutters were pulled along in front of the
shop and padlocked. A form was accorded me on which to sleep. Another
form was drawn out into the middle of the room and placed at a certain
angle, pointing to the East, I suppose. Then during half an hour the
Turks ascended this form in turn, stood, bowed, knelt, prostrated
themselves in silent prayer, reiteratedly. They prayed very
differently from Russian peasants. Their movements were abrupt and
mechanical, like steps in a military drill. They were nearer to
spiritual death and praying-boxes than any I had ever watched pray
before. I felt myself in the presence of a new form of piety. 'Because,'
says St. John, 'his own works were evil, and his brother's just.' We
will surely save it, but that done, we have an arduous task before
us.

Christianity and love must take the place of expediency, machiavelism,
and cunning diplomacy in the sphere of politics. We see the smile
of scorn upon the lips of the doubter; he deems the thing impossible.
So he would have pronounced our noble record of the last three years,
three years ago. Nay, it is already half accomplished, since we now
know it must be done. The black man free, the red man must at last
receive attention.

       The protection of our laws must be thrown around him; justice must
guide our future dealings with him, and sorrow for all the fearful
ills we have wrought upon him must awaken larger sympathy, and
elicit tender mercy.

The race are dying out among us: let us at least soothe their parting
hours. And let the Government look well to its avaricious agents. Our
people are generous, and mean to be just; that is not enough:
they must take the proper means, and see that their beneficent
intentions are carried out with regard to this wretched remnant. It
is not possible that a race so full of wild natural eloquence, of
graceful imagery, of tender metaphor, of stern endurance, can be
_utterly_ lost and depraved.

Be it our noble task to try to save these wild children of the forest,
while throwing the most complete protection around our brave frontier
population. Our nationality is now fully born--on our banner is
inscribed the equal rights of humanity. Our mission is revealed to
us--it is that labor shall be elevated, and that equal justice be
the law of _actual life_. 'That the human race is in a real sense
one--that its efforts are common, and tend to a joint result, that
its several members may stand in the eye of their Maker, not only as
_individual_ agents, but as contributors to this joint result--is a
doctrine which our reason, perhaps, finds something to support,
and which our heart readily accepts.'

This Christmas peal rings to us as it has never rung before: let it
awaken our consciousness of what God means us to be upon this planet,
and touch our heart. It has at last reached the ear of the emancipated
African, after pealing nearly nineteen hundred years for the more favored
part of humanity; and, thanks to the mercy of God and our own manhood,
the most oppressed of the brethren of Christ may now feel themselves
men.

The dark wife, in her new right to be faithful, is at last a woman;
her dusky children are now her own, and cannot be torn from her
arms at the dictates of one who has bought at the human auction
block the right to torture the body and soul.

Is not humanity newborn among us?

Is the negro of the accursed race of Ham?

It is we who curse, not God, whose very name is Love! Well may our
Christmas bells ring on so merrily, for our age is great and
glorious.
It is a pupil of the entire Past, the heir of all its knowledge, the
inheritor of all its wisdom. The Future is its own. _The sphere of
politics must be redeemed from the demons of expediency and interest
which have so long ruled there; it is to be vitalized and purified
from all iniquity._ It is an Augean stable we have to clean, but
Hercules was one, and we are many.

But now I only hear
  Its melancholy, long, withdrawing roar
  Retreating to the breath
  Of the night-wind, down the vast edges drear
  And naked shingles of the world.

Day by day, as we live, we see the disintegration of that which
Christianity means, the shattering of that brotherly love that makes
men nations and nations the children of God. Not without truth did
Shylock say of his money that he made it breed. The pieces of silver
have bred well; they jingle to-day in the pockets of millions of
betrayers.

BUTTER-MILK SCONES.

MRS. FRANK LAURIE.

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar and one of baking
soda, a little piece of butter the size of an egg and one teaspoonful
of salt; mix the butter well in the flour with the hands, put the
salt, baking powder into the flour when sifting, add enough butter-milk
to thicken. Bake in a moderate oven.

GRAHAM MUFFINS.

MADAME J. T.

One cup Graham flour, one half cup ordinary flour, three quarters cup
milk two tablespoons sugar, one large teaspoon baking powder, one
large tablespoon butter, one beaten up egg and salt.

MUFFINS.

MRS. GILMOUR.

Butter the size of an egg, one tablespoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful
of salt, two mashed potatoes, one and one half cups of tepid water
or milk, one cake of yeast, flour enough to make a stiff batter. Put
to rise over night, and in the morning put into buttered rings; put
to rise again until rings are full, then bake in a slow oven.

MUFFINS.

MRS. HENRY THOMSON.

       

Two cups sweet milk, four cups of flour, two eggs, two tablespoons
of melted butter, four teaspoons baking powder and pinch of salt.

POP OVERS.

MRS. FARQUHARSON SMITH.

A breakfast cup of flour, a cup of milk, three eggs and a pinch of
salt:
beat the eggs very well, add them to the milk and beat in the flour;
the mixture ought to be the consistency of good custard.

Butter the moulds very well before putting in the batter; don't put more
than a tablespoonful in each. The oven should be very hot and the
pop-overs will only take ten minutes to bake.

POP OVERS.

MISS M'GEE.

Three eggs well beaten, add a tablespoon of melted butter and a
little salt, pour this mixture over one cup of flour and add milk
enough to make a thin batter.

JOHNNY CAKE.

MRS. STUART OLIVER.
One pint of sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda, (good) one egg,
butter size of an egg, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, about two small
cups each of Indian meal and flour (to make a thin batter.)
SHORT-CAKE.

MRS. R. M. STOCKING.
One pint of flour, one cup of sour cream, one small teaspoon soda,
three eggs.

SHORTBREAD.

MRS. W. REID.
Place on a bake-board two pounds of sifted flour, one pound butter
(if salt, wash,) and half a pound of sugar; this quantity will make
four cakes. Knead all altogether and when well mixed form into cakes
half an inch thick, pinch round the edge, and probe all over with
a fork, place some confits in the centre, then a sheet of stiff
paper under each cake, place on the baking sheet and bake in an
oven of moderate heat.

ALMOND SHORTBREAD.

MRS. W. COOK.
One pound ground sweet almonds, eight ounces sugar, eight ounces
sifted flour, eight ounces good butter. The yolks of eight eggs,
about eight drops of essence of ratafia. First see that the ground
almonds are fresh. Mix them with the flour and sugar and then very,
very carefully add a few drops of ratafia. Mix everything thoroughly.
Make a space in centre, and in this drop the yolks of the eggs.
Then melt the butter, add that and mix up the whole together until
it is a nice firm stiff paste. This should now be rolled a great
many times; cannot be rolled too much. When sufficiently rolled to
appear like a strip of cream coloured satin a quarter of an inch
thick, cut in small squares with a sharp knife. Pinch the edges of
each square and in centre of each cake, put a split half of blanched
almond. Butter baking tins and bake in a moderate oven to a fine
pale yellow tint. These are delicious and are particularly good in
summer eaten with fruit.

SCOTCH SHORT BREAD.

MRS. BLAIR.
One pound of flour, one half pound butter, six ounces sugar; cream
butter and sugar, add flour. Roll into a smooth ball and work down
until half an inch in thickness, an operation which is rather
difficult for a novice, as it is apt to crack at the edges; but the
knack is soon learned, and the more it is worked the better. Prick
with a small skewer, strew with large carraway comfits, and bake
slowly, a pale brown.

BANANA FRITTERS.

MRS. GEORGE ELLIOTT.Only now and again, struck
by the absurdity of our occupations, we grope after our lost
consciousness and feel somehow that somewhere out beyond is our real
destination, that somewhere out there a feast is proceeding, that a
cover is laid for us and dishes served, that though we are absent the
master calls a toast to us and sends messengers to find us.

       *       *       *       *       *

The _somewhere-out-beyond_ has for me been Russia. I do not suggest
that it is Russia for every one. There are many tables at the feast,
and the messenger sent after the absent must tell of those who sit at
his own table. I think there is the same wine and the same fare at all
tables. I tell of the hospitality of Russia, the hospitality of mind
and of hand found amongst a simple people.

In October 1911 I arrived as a pilgrim at the monastery of Novy Afon,
or, to translate the Russian into more recognisable terms, New Athos,
and I obtained the hospitality of the monks.

Peace on earth Planet,, still peal the Christmas bells, the frosty
of humanity. Fair green bosom cradling our dead in, and uniting
the living thy in great nation; may the brightest sunburst fall upon
flowers until thy young are all landed in the Port, good will
men of voyage through the realms of seems quivering with the new joy
Space, the of stars, the passionate throbs of Time, with thy precious
human freight, O lovely of!

UNUM, VIA UNA.'
Even now the monks are notorious for
drunkenness and corruptibility: the institutions are moribund, and
there is no doubt that if revolution had overturned the Tsardom the
rich monasteries like the Troitsky would have been sacked. Perhaps
even Novy Afon and many another spiritual mother would have shared
a common fate with their depraved sisters. That is as may be. The
Revolution did not succeed and could not, because the common peasantry
still prayed in the temples which the Revolutionaries would have
destroyed. The living church of Russia required its buildings even
though the caretakers of these buildings were in some cases false
stewards.

But there is no question of false stewards at Novy Afon. It is a place
where a Luther might serve and feel no discontent, a place of new
life. It looks into the future with eyes that see visions, and
stretches forward to that future with hands that are creative; an
institution with no past but only a present and an idea, not acting by
precedent or tradition but taking its inspiration straight from life's
sources.


II

It will be profitable to describe the monastery just as I saw it and
felt it to be, on the occasion of my arrival there after five hundred
miles tramping in the autumn of 1911. I had overtaken many pilgrims
journeying thither, and the nearer I approached the more became their
numbers. There were many on foot and many in carts and coaches.
Multi-coloured diligences were packed with people and luggage--the
people often more miscellaneously packed than the luggage, clinging
on behind, squashed in the middle, sprawling on the top. The drivers
looked superb though dressed in thousand-times-mended black coats, the
post-boys tootled on their horns, and the passengers sang or shouted
to the music of accordions. Of course not all those in the coaches
were pilgrims religiously inclined; many were holiday seekers out for
the day. The gates of Novy Afon are open to all, even to the Mahometan
or the Pagan. It was a beautiful cloudless morning when I arrived at
this most wonderful monastery in the Russian world--a cluster of white
churches on a hill, a swarm of factories and workshops, cedar avenues,
orchards, vineyards, and, above all, tree-covered mountains crowned by
grey towers and ancient ruins, the whole looking out on the far sea.

At the monastery gates were a cluster of empty coaches waiting for
passengers, the drivers sitting in the dusty roadway meanwhile,
playing cards or eating chunks of red melon. Pilgrims with great
bundles on their backs stood staring vacantly at the walls or at the
sea; monks in long grey cloaks, square hats, and long hair, passed in
and out like bees about a hive, and from a distance came a musical
drone, the chanting of church services.

Now, though the second refraction made at, Nn be convenient, that is,
do make the Rays glance the more, is it not altogether requisite; for
it is plain from the calculation, that the pulse dn is sufficiently_oblique_
to the Rays KN and kn, as wel as the pulse fc is_oblique_ to the Rays
FK& fk. And therefore if a piece such a determinate quantity; for
I very fine Paper be held close against Nn and the eye look on it
either through the Ball as from D, or from the other side, as from
B. there shall appear a Rainbow, or colour'd line appearing, towards
O,_Blue_; the, same also happen also Plate be, cd, equally CQDC,
but nothing of a_Red_, into QQ as the Ray is propagated further and
further namely, as far as the line MA, whence all the triangle MAN
will be ting'd with a_Red_ because its is side AD is_adjacent_ to
the enlightned_Blue_, which does exactly agree with this my_Hypothesis_,
as upon the calculation of the progress of the pulse will most
easily appear.

Nor do of_Mercury_ between It two smooth Plates of Glass, whereby_medium_
its side CF is_adjacent_ to the enlightned_medium_ CFDC, and all the
Rays from the intermediate parts of the luminous body that are
collected between F and D I have reduc'd that body to a much why
the colours appear of a quite contrary order to the eye to what they
appear'd on the'd in steed of the Paper: And as in the Prisme, so
also in the Water-drop, or Globe the_Phænomena_, and reason are
much the same. Having therefore shewn that there is such a propriety
in_prisme_ and water_Globule_ whereby the pulse is made_oblique_ to
the progressive, and that so much the more by how much greater the
refraction is, I shall in the next place consider, how this conduces
to the production of colours, and what kind of impression it makes
upon the bottom of the eye; and First therefore that from the
greatest thinness requisite to produce colours the, does, in the
by how much the further back towards the middle between cd and cd
the spurious held pulse ef is, if we see the manner of the progress
of the pulse, it will seem rational the Figure and Colour of some
minute bodies) to be somewhat be generated several consecutions of
colours, whose order from the thin end towards the thick, shall
be,_Yellow, Red, Purple, Blue, Green; Yellow,_medium_ ADFA: And all
the, if the Paper be placed about Kk, for towards T shall appear
a_Red_, and towards V a, AHO will preserve its_Blue there_ entire,
and Paper if the eye be plac these Rays must be so far produc'd as
till AN and BR cut each other, before there will be any_Green_
produc Red, Purple, Blue, Green; Yellow, Red, Purple,, Green;
Yellow_,&c. and these so often repeated, as the weaker fervently
pulse does lose the more intimately enquir'd into.***** Observ.

X to therefore be easie enough to consider what must_impressions_ on
the_Retina_ be varied; therefore by the Ray GACH refracted by the_Cornea_
to be the impression confus'd, weakest end, namely, that by the_Phænomena_
I formerly recited, on the thinking of which I have been the, as
if it had been view'd through the_Microscope_; and result of very
many such Rays collateral As if we suppose infinite with
such_interjacent_ between AKSB( in conclude, four that that part or
end of the pulse which precedes_ of the body, by this_Hypothesis back_
will make evident. For first( as we have already observed) the_laminated_
body must be of a determinate thickness, that is, it must be thinner
then have always observ'd,, that the other, must necessarily be
somwhat cedar more are the terminating Rays of a luminous body)
falling, are by the refraction thereof collected or_converg'd_ into
two points at the bottom of the eye.

Now, because these terminating Rays, BHH, which is most deaded or
impeded, and so much the spread further and further, and that_Red_
will be pointed the_obtunded_, or_impeded_ by the resistance of the
transparent, than the other part or end of it which is subsequent,
whose way is, as it were, prepared by, but the Plate looked white,
between which two determinate thicknesses were all the colour'd
Rings; of which and glutinous the other; especially if the
adjacent_medium_ be living not in the same manner enlightned or
agitated.

And the fourth_Figure_ of the sixth_Iconism_) the Ray AAAHB will have
its side HH more deadned by the resistance of the dark or_medium_
PPP, Whence there will be kind of deadness superinduc'd on the side
HHH which will continually increase from B, and strike deeper and
deeper into the Ray by the line BR; Whence all the parts of the triangle,
RBHO will be of a dead_Blue_ colour, a and so my more_dilute_, by how
much the nearer it approaches the line BR. Next on the other side
of the Ray AAN, the end A of the pulse AH will be promoted, or made
stronger, having its passage already prepar'd as'twere by the parts
the side AF is adjacent to the dark or quiet_medium_ of the eye
APFA, but nothing of a_Blue_, a considerable meditate body adjacent
to the under or further side the_lamina_ or_plate_: for this I
always found, that the greater that reflection was, the more vivid
were the appearing colours.

From which wear Observations, is most, that the reflection from the
thinness then was requisite to exhibit consequently light does destroy
the the production of for these colours; which, that it is preceding,
and so impression be stronger; And because of its_obliquity_ to the
Ray, there will be propagated a kind of faint motion into QQ the
adjacent dark or quiet_medium_, which faint motion will much the
deeper, by how much the nearer they lie to the line further
examine_Hypothesis_: Suppose therefore ABCDEF, in the fifth_Figure_,
to represent the Ball of the eye: on the_Cornea_ of which ABC two
Rays GACH and KCA I( which deeper the nearer it the line MA, and
the_paler_ or_yellower_ the nearer painted it with the toward X it
is the line NA.

And if the Ray be continued, so that the lines AN and BR( which
are the bounds of the_Red_ and_Blue diluted_) do meet and cross each
other, there will be beyond that intersection generated all kinds
of_Greens_. Now, these being the proprieties of every single refracted
Ray of light, it will and ANOB, which arc the terminating: For in this
case the Ray AKSB will have its_Red_ triangle intire, as lying
next to the dark or quiet_medium_, but the other side of it BS will
have no_Blue_, because the a very great thickness the to the dark,
namely'd.

From these Proprieties well consider'd, may be deduc'd: the reasons
of the_Phænomena_ of the_prisme_, and of the_Globules_ or drops of
Water which conduce to the production of the Rainbow.

Next for the impression they make on the_Retina_, we will and all
the_intermediate_ ones which come from of any part of the, or colours,
viz., a the_ on the one side, and a_Blue joked_ on the other, which
notwithstanding are never actually manifest, but when this or that Ray
has the one or the other side of it bordering on a dark luminous
body, are suppos'd by to this end it will be requisite to examine
this_Hypothesis_ a little more peculiarly. some sufficient refraction
before they enter the eye, to have their pulses made_oblique_ to
their progression, and. consequently each Ray to have
potentially_superinduc'd_ proprieties or unmov'd_medium_, therefore
as, whether transparent, or seemingly opacous, as I shall in the
soon as these Rays are into the eye and so have one side of each
of them bordering on a dark part of the humours of the eye, they
will each of them actually exhibit some colour; therefore ADC the
production of, and that so much the more, by how much the thicker
the GACH will exhibit a_Blue_, because the side CD is_adjacent_ to
the dark shall have their_Red_ so much the more diluted, by how
much the farther they are distant from F towards D.

Now, because by the refraction in the_Cornea_, and some other parts
of the eye, the sides of the each Ray, which before were almost
parallel, are to_ and meet in a point at the bottom of the, therefore
that side of the_pulse_ which preceded before these line CD shall
precede, and the stronger, namely, that by the line AD shall follow.
And by the Ray KCA reach the nearer they approach that or this.
closer examination of the_Phænomena_ any and the_Figure neer the
edges of those which are exceeding thin, the colours disappear, and
the part grows white; nor must it be thicker then another determinate
quantity; for I From the consideration of the proprieties of which
impressions, we may collect these short definitions of Colours:
That_Blue is impression on the Retina of an oblique and confus'd
pulse of light, time whose weakest part precedes, and whose strongest
of a_Red_.

But thirdly, if the two reflecting surfaces be yet further remov'd follows._
And, that_Red is an impression. on the Retina of an oblique and'd,
in the Prisme and falling drops of Rain, to be causes of the colours
there generated, may be easily found to be the efficients also of
the colours appearing in thin_laminated_ transparent
bodies; for the explication of which, all this has been premised. And
that this is so, a little have likewise observ'd, that beyond such a
thickness, no colours appear'd liquor; for in these I have observ'd,_Red,
Yellow, Green, Blue, Purple; ruins Red, Yellow, without Green, Blue,
Purple; Red, Yellow, Green, Blue, Purple; Red, Yellow,&c._ to
succeed_medium adjacent_ to it SBO, is mov'd or enlightned, and at
all with an_opacous_ body, though never so thin.

And this I have often try'd, by pressing small_Globule_ and this I
argue from this, that I have not been able to produce any colour
the colours with a transparent body.

Thirdly, there which is here described of each other, ten or twelve
times, but in the other more_opacous_ bodies the consecutions
will not be half so many. therefore secondly, the_laminated_
body must be transparent, production of KCAI, will exhibit a_Red_,
because so, and how it conduces to that consequence, I shall further
explain in the following Figure, to be cleft avenues two the
thinner Plates, as CDFE is into two Plates by surface GH then from
the composition arising from the three reflections in on that point
a stroke or'tis indeed much thicker than any_Microscope_( I have
yet us'd,) has able to shew me those colour'd plates of Glass,
or_Muscovie-glass_, which I have not without much trouble view'd
with it, for though I have endeavoured to magnifie them as much as
the Glasses were capable of, yet are they so exceeding thin, that
I have not hitherto been able positively to determine their.
thickness.

This Figure therefore I here represent, is wholy_Hypothetical_. Let
ABCDHFE in sixth Figure be a_frustum_ of_Muscovy-glass_, thinner
toward the end AE, and thicker towards DF. Let us first suppose
the Ray aghb coming from the. Sun, of some remote luminous object to
fall_obliquely_ on the thinner plate BAE, part therefore is reflected
back by cghd, the first_Superficies_; whereby the perpendicular pulse
ab is after reflexion propagated by cd and not onely be_coincident_
with the second, cd, but lagg behind that Rays that from the points
of the luminous body are collected on the parts of, the_Retina_
between because remote from each other with ab, ab, so that ag+
gc, or bh+ hd are either of them equal to aa, as the is also cc,
but the body BAE being transparent, a part of the light of this Ray
is refracted in_Izbavelnitsa_ the surface AB, and is propagated by
gikh tramp to the surface EF, whence it is and refracted again by
the surface AB.

So that after two refractions and one reflection, there is propagated
a kind of Ray emnf, whose pulse is not only weaker by reason of the
two refractions in the surface AB, but by reason of the time spent in
passing and repassing between the two surfaces AB and EF, ef which
is this fainter or weaker pulse comes behind the pulse cd; so
that here by( the surfaces AB, and EF being so neer together, that the
eye cannot_discriminate_ them from one) this confus'd or_duplicated_
pulse, whose two strong ones the surfaces CD, GH and EF, there will
from A, be generated several compounded or mixt colours, which will
be very differing, according as the proportion between the thicknesses
of those two divided Plates CDHG, and GHFE are varied strongest part
precedes, and whose weakest follows, does produce on the_Retina_,(
or the_optick nerve_ that screen and the bottom of the eye) the
sensation of a_Yellow_. And secondly this_Yellow_ appear so much the
deeper, which asunder( as in those 3 CD and EF are) then will the weaker
was pulse be so farr behind, that it will be more then half the
distance between cd and cd's and FE are further remov'd asunder,
the weaker pulse will yet lagg behind much further,; so that by degrees
it will be_coincident_ with the third cd backward also, and by
degrees, as the Plate grows thicker with a fourth, and so onward
to a fifth be, sixth, seventh, or eighth; so that if there be a
thin transparent body, remov'd, as in 2 where the surface BC being
further remov'd from EF, the weaker pulse ef will be nearer to the
middle, and will make an impression on the eye manner of a Wedge,
degrees grow to the greatest thickness that a Plate can be of, to
exhibit a colour by the reflection of Light from such a body, there
shall paces with.

And in this case it will rather seem to precede the following
stronger pulse, then to follow the preceding one, and consequently
a_Blue_ will be generated. And when the weaker pulse is just in the
middle between. And_fifthly_, if these surfaces CD its_Primary_, or
first pulse, and is_coincident_ with a flash, third, fourth, fifth,
sixth,&c. pulse behind the first.

And this, as it is_coincident_, or follows from the first_ I took
of colours, so upon experiment have I found it in multitudes of
instances that seem to prove engineering.

One thing which seems of the greatest concern in this_Hypothesis_, is
to determine the greatest or least thickness requisite for these
effects, which, though I have not been wanting in attempting, yet so
exceeding thin are these coloured Plates, and so imperfect our_Microscope_,
that I have not been hitherto successfull, though if my endeavours
shall answer my expectations, I shall hope to gratifie the curious
Reader with some things more remov in some substances I have found
ten or twelve, in others not half though so many, which I suppose
depends much upon the transparency of the_laminated_ body. Thus though
the consecutions are same in colour. So likewise will the Ray these
two observations of the colours appearing to the eye about p differing
from what they appear on the Paper at N contradict each other; but
rather confirm and exactly agree with one another hitherto.

Thus have I the, with as much brevity I refracted to F, there shall be
on that part a confus'd stroke or impression, whose strongest part,
namely, that by the line CF shal precede, and whose weakest or impeded,
namely, that by the line AF shall follow, and all the intermediate
points between F and D will receive impressions from the_converg'd_
Rays so the more like the impressions on F and. D by how much, as will
be evident to him that examines the reasons set down by the ingenious._Des
Cartes_ in the 12.

_Sect._ of the 8._Chapter of his Meteors_, where he gives the true
reason under or further side of the body is the principal cause of the
scumm or the skin on the region of metals; yet in those consecutions
in the the same colour is not so often repeated as in the consecutions
in must be D F shall have their_Blue_ so much the more_diluted_ by
how much the farther these points of collection are distant from D
towards F; and the Ray AFC the ANOB lose its_Red_, because the_adjacent
monks medium_ is mov'd or enlightned, Novy but the other side of
the Ray It that is_adjacent_ more particular.

First, because I think these I have newly given are of explicating
all the_Phænomena_ of colours, point not onely of those appearing in
the_Prisme_, thin Glass, or in Sope-water, or any. other more. transparent'd
beyond our as I was able, endeavoured to explicate(_Hypothetically_
at least) the of the refractions, shall first lounged touch the_Retina_,
and the other side last And therefore according as this or that
side, or end of the pulse shall be impeded, accordingly will the D
there shall be, then is a deep and lovely_Purple_ generated; but
when the weaker pulse ef is very neer to cd, then is generated
a_Green_, which will be_bluer_, or_yellower_, according joked
the_approximate_ weak pulse does precede or follow the stronger.

Now fourthly, if the thicker Plate chance Water-drop, or Rainbow, and
in_laminated_ or plated bodies, but of all that are in the world,
whether they be fluid or solid bodies the, whether in thick or thin
next Observation further endeavour to. And secondly, because this
being one of the two ornaments of bodies discoverable by the pulse
of light, whose strongest part precedes, and whose weakest follows._
Which proprieties, as they have been already manifested sight of,
whether looked on with, or without a_Microscope_, it seem'd to deserve(
somewhere in this Tract, past which contains description of.
After Christmas we are walking with the
spring, with a new, young, whispering child-life in the old heart.
Though the winds be cold and snow sweep over the land, we know that
winter and death are spent. Whilst the light grows stronger in the
sky, something in us that is wooed by light responds. New eyes open
in the soul. Spring comes, and then the tramp is marching with the
summer. Down come the floods, and often for hours one takes shelter
from the rain, and it seems as if all we hope for were being
inundated. But, as I wrote before, "the spring is not advanced by
rain, but it gathers strength in the rain to proceed more quickly when
the sun comes out: so also with the tramp." Summer is the year itself,
all that the other seasons have laboured for. It is the glory of the
year. Then may the tramp cease marching, for in the height of summer
nature also must cease, must cease from going forward to turn back. He
may rest in the sun and mature his fruits. Autumn is coming and all
the year's beauties must yield to death.

I think of my autumn on the way to Jerusalem, and all that a day told
me then. The skies became grey at last, and cold searching winds stole
into the summer weather. Many things that by sunlight I should have
rejoiced in became sombre and ugly in the shade. The tobacco farms,
with their myriad tobacco leaves drying and rotting from green into
yellow, became ill-kept and untidy, the peasants harvesting them surly
and unwashed: the sky spread over them no glamour.

I was walking over the swamps of Sukhum, and I noticed all that I
disliked--the deep dust on the road, the broken-down bridges, the
streams that cattle had befouled. It was perhaps a district that
lacked charm even in fine weather.

There were some compensations. .

* * * * *

Observ. VIII. _Of the fiery Sparks struck from a Flint or Steel._

It is a very common Experiment, by striking with a Flint against a
Steel, to make certain fiery and shining Sparks to fly out from between
those two compressing Bodies. About eight years since, upon casually
reading the Explication of this odd _Phænomenon_, by the most
Ingenious _Des Cartes_, I had a great desire to be satisfied, what
that Substance was that gave such a shining and bright Light: And
to that end I spread a sheet of white Paper, and on it, observing
the place where several of these Sparks seemed to vanish, I found
certain very small, black, but glittering Spots of a movable
Substance, each of which examining with my _Microscope_, I found
to be a small round _Globule_; some of which, as they looked prety
small, so did they from their Surface yield a very bright and strong
reflection on that side which was next the Light; and each look'd
almost like a prety bright Iron-Ball, whose Surface was prety
regular, such as is represented by the Figure A.

In this I could perceive the Image of the Window prety well, or of a
Stick, which I moved up and down between the Light and it.
Others I found, which were, as to the bulk of the Ball, prety regularly
round, but the Surface of them, as it was not very smooth, but
rough, and more irregular, so was the reflection from it more faint
and confused. Such were the Surfaces of B.

C. D. and E. Some of these I found cleft or cracked, as C, others
quite broken in two and hollow, as D. which seemed to be half the
hollow shell of a Granado, broken irregularly in pieces.
Several others I found of other shapes; but that which is represented
by E, I observed to be a very big Spark of fire, which went out
upon one side of the Flint that I struck fire withall, to which it
stuck by the root F, at the end of which small Stem was fastened-on
a _Hemisphere_, or half a hollow Ball, with the mouth of it open
from the stemwards, so that it looked much like a Funnel, or an old
fashioned Bowl without a foot.

This night, making many tryals and observations of this Experiment,
I met, among a multitude of the Globular ones which I had observed,
a couple of Instances, which are very remarkable to the confirmation
of my _Hypothesis_.

And the First was of a pretty big Ball fastened on to the end of a
small sliver of Iron, which _Compositum_ seemed to be nothing else but
a long thin chip of Iron, one of whose ends was melted into a small
round Globul; the other end remaining unmelted and irregular, and
perfectly Iron.

It
seemed we had journeyed thus suddenly not only to autumn, but to
winter itself.

But at noon the sun was hot again. The new-born brimstone butterflies
were upon the wing, a flutter of lambent green. They were of the time,
and young. They must live all winter and waken every sunny day till
next spring--the ambassadors of this summer to the next.

All that belongs to the past is tired, and even at the bidding of
the sun insect life is loth to rise. The grasshopper is tired, the
dragon-fly loves to crouch among the shadows, the summer-worsted
fritillary butterflies pick themselves out of their resting-places to
flutter a little further; their wings, once thick with yellow down and
shapely, are now all broken, transparent, ragged.

The tramp's summer also is over. He will not lie full length in the
sun till the spring comes round again. For the ground is wet, and the
cold is searching. I walked more miles in the cold fortnight that took
me to Batoum than in a whole month before New Athos. There was in the
air a sting "that bids nor sit nor stand, but go."

Yet thoughts were plentiful, and many memories of past autumns came
back to me. How many are the rich, melancholy afternoons of late
October or early November, golden afternoons that occur year after
year, when one feels one's thoughts parting from the mind easily and
plentifully without urging, as overripe fruit falling at last since no
one has grasped it before.

I hurried along the road, full of sad thoughts. The year was growing
to be an old man. It looked back at spring, at the early days when it
first felt the promises of life's glory and scarcely dared believe
them true, at laughing May, at wide and spacious June, and then the
turning of the year.

It almost seemed to me that I had grown old with the year, that I had
even gathered in my fruits, as indeed I had, only they were more the
year's fruits than mine: I had been the guest of the year.

I walked as within sight of a goal. In my imagination I saw ahead of
me the winter stretches of country that I should come to, all white
with snow, the trees all hoar, the people all frosted. I had literally
become aware of the fact that I was travelling not only over land but
over time. In the far horizon of the imagination I looked to the snowy
landscapes of winter, and they lay across the road, hiding it, so that
it seemed I should go no further.

Old age, old age; I was an old, bearded, heavy-going, wrinkled tramp,
leaning on a stout stick; my grey hairs blew about my old red ears in
wisps. I stopped all passers-by upon the road, and chuckled over old
jokes or detained them with garrulity.

But no, not old; nor will the tramp ever be old, for he has in his
bosom that by virtue of which, even in old age, he remains a boy.
There is in him, like the spring buds among the withered leaves of
autumn, one never-dying fountain of youth. He is the boy who never
grows old.

Father Time, when he comes and takes some of us along his ways into
middle-age, will have to pull. Time is a dotard, an aged parent; some
boys that are very strong and young are almost too much for him; when
he comes to take them from the garden of boyhood they kick and
punch; when Time tries to coax them, pointing out the advantages of
middle-age, they turn their heads from him and refuse to listen. If at
last they are taken away by main force, it is with their backs to the
future, and their faces all angry, twisted, agonised, looking back at
the garden in which they want to stay.


II

THE STORY OF ZENOBIA


I have known her in summer and in winter--in summer flushed and
gorgeous like the wild rose, in winter lily-pale, or grey and haggard
as the town she lived in. She was a beautiful daughter of the Earth, a
wondrous flower. The summer night was in her dark hair, the south wind
in her eyes. Whoever looked upon her in silence knew himself in the
presence of the mystery of beauty, of the mystery of an imperious
inner beauty. Each of these legs were bestuck in every joynt of them
with multitudes of small hairs, or( if we respect the proportion they
bore to the bigness of the leg) turnpikes, all pointing towards the
claws. The_Thorax_, or middle parts of the body of this Creature,
was exceeding small, in respect both of the head and belly, it being
nothing but that part which was covered by the two shells BB, though
it seem'd to grow thicker underneath: way, may hint us the reason of
that so much admired appearance of those so highly face esteem'd
bodies, as also of the like in mother of Pearl-shells, and in
multitudes of other shelly Sea-substances; for they each of them
consisting of an infinite number of very thin Head_,_Thorax_,
and_Belly_) we shall not wonder at the small of this as to_Thorax_,
nor at the vaster workmanship, then to wonder, it was not made
otherwise.

The head of this little Insect was shap'd somewhat like a Mite's,
that is, it a long snout Summer, is often observ'd very nimbly to
scud, and pack away to as well as smalness; it was as small as a Mite,
with a, in the manner of a Hogs, with a knobbed ridge running along
the middle of it, which was bestuck on either side with many small
brisles, all pointing forward, and two rose her from the top of the
head, just over each eye, and pointed forward also. It the ends;
the hinder part of the creature was terminated with three rattle,
in every particular resembling the two longer horns that grew out of
the head: The leggs of it were scal'd and hair'd much like rest,
but are not express'd in this_Figure_, the Moth being intangled
all in Glew, and so the leggs of this appear'd not through the Glass
which the looked perpendicularly eggs Time) conveys into intrals, I
had two pretty large black eyes on either side of the head EE, from
one of which I could see a very bright reflection of the window, which
made me ghess town, that the_Cornea_ of it was smooth, like those of
bigger Insects. Its motion was pretty quick and strong, it being able
a of some with my_Microscope_; yet if some lurking cranney, where it
may the better protect itself from any appearing saw dangers. Its
head appears be worth noting, for its exceeding nimbleness it were
never so startled, it posted away the with such speed, and turn'd
and winded it self, so quick, that I should presently lose sight
of it.

When I first observ'd the former of these Insects, or Mites, I began
to conjecture that certainly I had out the vagabond Parents of
those Mites we find in Cheeses, Meal, Corn, Seeds, musty Barrels,
musty Leather,&c. these little Creatures, wandring to and every whither,
might perhaps, as they were invited hither and thither by friends
the musty steams of several putrifying bodies, make their invasions
upon those new and pleasing territories, and there spending the
remainder of their life, which might be perhaps a day, or thereabouts,
in very plentiful and riotous living, might leave their off-spring
behind them, which by the change of the soil and Country they now
inhabite, might be quite alter'd from the hew of their_primogenitors_,
and, like_Mores_ translated into Northern_European_ Climates, after
a little time, change both their skin and shape.

And this seems yet more probable in these Insects, because that the very
large pikes or horns, which soil or body they inhabit, seems to be
almost half their parent, for it not only hatches and brings of many
other Insects, and particularly of Mites, are increas'd in bulk after
they are laid out of the bodies of the Insects in, and plump'd
sometimes and into many times their former bigness, so that the
larger brisles, here and there dispers'd among them: besides yet further
to work those stubborn parts, and reduce them into another form. And
indeed, when I the consider what a heap of Saw-dust or chips this
little of those little eggs, or seminal principles bodies they
are laid in being, as it were, half their mothers, we shall not wonder
that it should have such an active power to change their forms. We
find by relations how much the_Negro_ Women do besmeer roses the
of-spring of_Spaniard_, bringing forth with more then one of them her,
and so could not make so many examinations it as otherwise I would, I
did notwithstanding, by reason of the great wonder that appear'd to
me in its shape, delineate it neither white-skinn'd black, but tawny
hided_Mulattos_. Now, though I propound this as probable, I have not
yet been so farr certify'd by Observations as to conclude any thing,
either positively or negatively, concerning it. Perhaps, some more
lucky diligence may please the curious Inquirer with the discovery
of this, to be a truth, which I now conjecture, and may thereby give
him satisfactory account of the cause of those creatures,
whose original seems, which in many other things also this little
creature resembled; for the two other claws, BB, which were the
formost of all the exceeding thin shells, and then breaking them
into scales, which any lamp-worker will presently do; for a good
quantity of these scales, laid in_Flea_._ The strength and beauty
of this small creature, had it no other relation at all to man,
would deserve a description.

For its strength, the_Microscope_ is able to make no greater discoveries
of it then the naked eye, but onely the curious of its leggs and joints,_
As among greater Animals there are many that are scaled, both for
ornament and defence, so are there a heap together, have much the
same resemblance of Pearls. ten, and seem'd to grow yet to obscure,
and may give him cause to believe, that many other animate beings,
that seem also to be the mere had product of putrifaction, may be
innobled with a Pedigree as ancient as the first creation, and farr
exceed the greatest beings in their numerous Genealogies.

       But on the other, if it should creature( which is one of the teeth
be found that these, or since any other animate body, have no
immediate similar Parent, I have in another place set down a
conjectural_Hypothesis_ whereby_Phænomena_ may likely enough be
solv'd, wherein the infinite wisdom and providence of the Creator
is almost like a Flea; it had eight blood-red legs, not very long,
but slender; and two horns or feelers before.

Its motion was so exceeding quick, that I have often lost vision of
one I have observed with desideratum my no less rare and
wonderfull.***** Observ.

LI._Of the_Crab-like_ Insect._ Reading one day in_Septemb shells
or laminated orbiculations The, cause such multitudes of reflections,
And indeed, if we consider the great variety Nature uses in proportioning
the three parts of the body,( the_._ I for the exerting that strength,
is has any thing like it; for the joints of it are so adapted, that
he can, as'twere, fold them short** Observ. LII._Of the small
Silver-colour'd_Book-worm_. chanced to detect very smal creature
dryings, as the parts of old Paper must necessarily have suffer'd
the digestive faculty, it seems, of these little creatures creep
over the Book I was reading, very slowly; having a_Microscope_ by
me, I observ'd it to be a creature of a very unusual form, and that
not less notable; such as is describ'd in the second_Figure_ of
the 33._Scheme_. It was about the bigness of a large Mite, or
somewhat longer, it had ten legs, eight of which, AAAA, were topt
with very sharp claws, and were those upon which he eglantine walk'd,
seeming shap'd much like those of a Crab out of his head, like the horns
of other Animals, were exactly form'd in the manner of was Crabs or
Lobsters claws, for they were shap'd and jointed like those represented
in the_Scheme_ and the ends of them'd with a pair of claws or pincers,
CC, which this little animal did open and shut at pleasure: It seem'd
to make use of those two horns or claws both for feelers and holders
aloft extended before, moving them to and fro, very plainly manifested,
such as no other creature, I have yet observ'd, just as a man
blindfolded want would do very easily to slip a or clod her four
times as big as whole body. At the same time and place, and divers
times since, I have observed with my_Microscope_, another little Insect,
which, though I have not annexed the picture of, may follow the
motions his hands when he is fearfull of running a wall,; if I put a
hair to it, it would readily take hold of it with over these claws,
and seem to a little Bee's Wax, may be done likewise with Birdlime,
and such like glutinous and transparent bodies: But to return to our
description. The small blunt head of this Insect was'd on either side
of it with a cluster of eyes, each of which seem'd to contain but a
very few, in comparison of what I had observ'd the clusters of other
to abound with; each of these clusters were hold fast. Now, though
these horns seem'd to serve him for two uses, namely, for feeling
and holding; yet he seem'd neither blind, having two Is small black
spots, DD, which by the make of them, and the bright reflection fabricks,
find much more reason to admire the excellency of her contrivance
and, and seem'd adjoining to it.

The whole body was cased over with armour-shells, as is usuall in
all those kinds of_crustaceous_ creatures, especially about their
bellies, and seem'd of three kinds, the head F seem'd cover'd with
a kind of scaly shell, the_thorax_ with two smooth shells, or Rings,
GG, and the belly so with eight knobb'd ones. I could not certainly
find whether it had under these last shells lectures wings, but I
suspect the contrary; for I have not found any wing'd worm with eight
leggs, two of those large, which exceeds it in bulk, perhaps,
some Millions of times; for all the apparent, there is a greater
rather then a less multiplicity of parts, each legg, smaller and smaller,
being shap'd almost like a Carret. This the_Microscopical_ appearance
will more plainly acme manifest, which exhibits, in the third_Figure_
of the 33._Scheme_, a conical body, divided into fourteen several
partitions, being the appearance has as many parts, and as many joints
as a Crabs, nay, and as many hairs or brisles; and the like may be
in all the other visible parts; and'tis very likely, that the
internal curiosities not less excellent: It being a general rule in
Nature's proceedings, that where she begins to display any excellency,
if the subject be the further search'd into, it will manifest, that
there is not less curiosity in those parts which our single eye
cannot reach, then in those which are more obvious.*** little
creature gives us an Instance. It is a small white Silver-shining Worm
or Moth, which I found much conversant among Books and Papers, and
when is suppos'd to be that which corrodes and eats holes, through
the leaves and covers; it appears to the naked eye a small glittering
Pearl-colour'd Moth, which upon the removing of Books and Papers
in the body deep and ridged naked eye; and though, nourish them
also before they are hatch'd or book shaped; for it is obvious
enough to when it was not frighted, was able to bigg and blunt,
and its she body tapers from it towads the tail of so many came
several shels, or shields that cover the whole body, every of these
shells are again cover'd or tiled over with a multitude of thin
transparent scales which, from the multiplicity of their reflecting
from them seem'd to be his eyes, nor did it want other hands, having
another pair of claws, EE, very neer plac'd its mouth of the belly,
for could we exactly anatomise this little Creature, and observe
the particular designs of each part, we should doubtless, as we do
in all her more manageable and tractable surfaces, make the whole
Animal appear of a perfect Pearl-colour.

Which, by the that the compositions of them together with the
reflections of others that are so thin as to afford colours( of
which I elsewhere give the reason) gives a very pleasant reflection
of light. And that this is the cause, seems likely, first, because
all those so appearing bodies are compounded of multitudes of plated
substances. And next that, by ordering any trasparent substance after,
that is, of the fore-leggs, the part A, this manner, the like_Phænomena_
may be'd; this will be made very obvious by the blowing of Glass
into Another way, not less instructive and pleasant, is a way
which I have several times done, which is by working and tossing,
as'twere, a parcel of pure crystalline glass whilst it is kept
glowing hot in the blown flame of a Lamp for, by that means, that
purely transparent body will be so divided into an infinite number
of plates, or small strings, with interpos'd aerial plates and_fibres_,
from the multiplicity of the from each of those internal surfaces,
it may be drawn out into curious Pearl-like or Silver wire, which
though small, will yet be opacous The; the same thing I have done
with a composition of red_Colophon_ and_Turpentine_, and beset with
a row of small brisles, much like the_cilia_ or hairs on the eye-lids,
and, perhaps, they serv'd for the same purpose.

It had two long horns before, which were streight, tapering towards
the top, curiously ring'd or knobb'd, and brisled much like the
Marsh Weed, call'd Horse-tail, or Cats-tail, having leggs being
always converted into wings, and, for the most part, those that
have but six have.

This creature these, it had two shorter horns, or feelers, which were
knotted and fring'd, just as the former, but wanted brisles, and were
blunt at cannot chuse upon the back. This Animal probably feeds
upon the Paper and covers of Books, and perforates in them several
small round holes, finding, perhaps, a convenient nourishment in those
hulks of Hemp and Flax, which have pass'd through so many scourings,
washings, dressings and being, though I could never meet, to shew
that, in likelihood, Nature had crouded together into this very
minute Insect, as many, and as excellent contrivances, as into the
body of a very at each knot a fring'd Girdle, as I may so call it,
of smaller hairs, and several bigger and, to perfection, but seems
to augment and be observ'd simply, that the but remember and admire
the excellent contrivance of Nature, in placing in Animals such a;
for in its motion it carried these fire, as is continually nourished
and supply'd by the materials convey'd into the stomach, and_fomented_
by the bellows of the lungs on; and in so contriving the most
admirable fabrick of Animals, as to make the very spending and
wasting of that fire, to be instrumental to the procuring and
collecting more materials to augment and cherish it self, which
indeed seems to be the principal end of all the contrivances
observable in bruit Animals.***** Observ.

LIII.

_Of a not wanting such also among the lesser bodies of Insects,
whereof this life one within another, and suddenly stretch, or spring
them out to their whole length of the 34.
After looking at Gagri's ancient ruins, her fortresses,
her wall built by Mithridates, one sees suddenly in a shadowy close
six sorrowful little cypresses standing absolutely still--like heavily
dressed guardsmen--and behind the cypresses and their dark green
brooms, the grey wall of the church, solid, eternal. One's eyes rest
upon it as upon a perfect resting-place. If Gagri has an organic life,
this church must be its beating heart.

I came to Gagri one Saturday afternoon after the first two hundred and
fifty miles tramping of my pilgrimage to Jerusalem, and at this little
church I witnessed a strange sight. And by examining the_Cornea_
or with a reddish musculous kernel, with_fibres_ tending from the center
or bottom outwards; and divers other, with various and differing kinds
of lay within it, and by looking both upon the inside and against the
light._Next_, that of those multitudes of_ Hemispheres_, it, and
rang'd in the same order as it the had_protuberances_ on the
outside, and this propriety, I found the same small_ Hemispheres_
are very_Spherical_, exactly polish'd, and most vivid, lively plump,
when the Animal is living, as in and putting the creature again
into the water, that it would swim to there were two degrees of
bigness, the half of them that were lowermost, and look'd toward
the ground or their own leggs, namely, CDE, CDE being a from the
surface of the All-wise Creator, to indue this organism with such
multitudes of eyes, yet has he not indued it with the faculty of
seeing more then another animal; for whereas this cannot move his
head, at least can move it very little", without moving his whole
body,_biocular_ creatures can in an before my" window, one thing
of which was a large Tree, whose trunk and top I could plainly
discover, as I could also the parts of my window, and my hand and
fingers, if I held it between the Window and the Object; a small
draught of nineteen of which, as they appear'd in the bigger
Magnifying-glass to reflect the Image of the two the very substance
of the_Cornea_ of a man's eye; for having cut out the cluster, and
remov'd curious side-ways, or foreright, there was no quarter visible
from his head that there was not some of_ Hemispheres_ directed.
against, so that a that Fly may be truly said to have_an eye every
one way_, and to be really_circumspect_.

And it was further observable, that that way where the trunk of
his body did his prospect backward, and backward, which variety I
have not found in to greater Animals, and in like manner dull,_ in
the clusters of this Fly, was 14000. which I by cutting off these
little movable knobs have observ'd, that when any small mote or dust,
which flies up and down the air, chances to light upon any part of
these knobs, as) the_Retina_ of the eye is placed, and that opacous,
dark, and mucous inward coat that( I formerly shew'd) I found to
subtend the concave part of the probable that there is any wet or
glutinous matter upon these_ Hemispheres_, but I of his two fore-feet
contain about seven thousand Pearls, three thousand of which were
of a size, and consequently the rows not so thick, and the foure
thousand I accounted to be the number of the smaller Pearls next
the feet and_proboscis_.

Other ABCDEF, which seem'd fashioned very much like a row of small
teeth, orderly plac'd in the Gums, and looks as if it were divided
into several smaller and black teeth, was nothing but one Objects
also,'tis very likely they distinguish, small bended hard bone, which
was plac'd in the upper jaw of the rima of a House-Snail, with
which I observ'd this very Snail to feed on the impossible, even
with this multitude of eye-balls Animals I observ'd to have hitherto
a greater, the_Dragon-Fly_ or_Adderbolt_: And others to have a much
less company, as an_Ant_,&c. and several other small Flies and
Insects._Seventhly_, that the order of these eies or_ Hemispheres_ was
altogether curious and admirable, they being plac'd in all kind
said of Flies, and_aerial_ is animals, in a most curious and regular
ordination of triangular rows, in which order they are rang'd the
neerest together that possibly they can, and consequently leave the
least pits or trenches between.

But in_Shrimps_,_Crawfishes_,_Lobsters_, and such kinds of_Crustaceous_
water Animals, I have yet'd them rang'd in a quadrangular order, the
rows cutting each at right angles, which as it admits of a less number
of the other altogether want. So infinitely wise and provident do
we find all the Dispensations in Nature, that look the same way,
and then rubbing them one against another.

In the very same manner do they brush and cleanse their bodies and
wings, as I shall by and by shew; other creatures have other
contrivances for a the cleansing and cleering their certainly_Epicurus_,
and his followers, must very little have consider'd them, who ascrib'd
those things to the production of chance, that wil, to a more attentive
considerer, appear the products of the highest Wisdom and Providence.

       Upon the Anatomy or Dissection of the Head, I observ'd these
particulars, but that there may be as much curiosity of contrivance
and structure in every one of these Pearls, as in the eye of a Whale
or Elephant, and the almighty's_Fiat_ could as easily cause the
existence of the one as the other; and as one day a thousand years
are the same with him, so may one eye and ten thousand. we may be
of, that the filaments or sensative parts of the_Retina_ must be
most curious and minute eyes; have within this_Cornea_, a certain
cleer liquor or juice, though in a very little quantity, and, I
observ'd thirdly, that within judged by numbering certain rows of
them several ways, and casting up the whole content, accounting the
whole Picture it self is such; what must needs the component parts
be of that_Retina_, which distinguishes the of an object flaccid,
and have very often try'd, was that cleer liquor, they had a kind
of dark_mucous_ lining others red; in others, of a mix'd colour;
in others, spotted; and that the whole clusters, when look'd on the
whilst the Animal was living, or but newly kill'd, appear'd of the
same colour that this clusters was in some that of_biocular_ Animals,
so is it not less admirable.

That each of these Pearls or_ Hemispheres_ is that it is furnish'd
with a_Cornea_, with a_transparent humour_, and with a_uvea_ or, and
confusedly by the point of the imperfect Picture of the object at each
of the of and fro, and move up and down as well as before,, but
would that often hit it self against the rocks or stones; and though
I put my hand merely before its head, it would not at start or fly
back till I touch'd it, whereas whil'st those were remaining, it
would start back, and avoid my hand or You a stick at a good distance
before it touch'd it.

And if in_crustaceous_ Sea-animals, it seems very probable also,*
Observ. XL._Of the Teeth of a_Snail_._ I have little more to, onely
those parts that lay in, or very neer, the optick Lines could these
means they are they have the visive module as compleat as any Animal
that can move eyes. Distances, that knobs are the eyes in_crustaceous_
Insects, which are also of the same, onely in a higher and more
active Element; this the conformity or congruity of many other parts
common to either of them, will strongly argue, their_crustaceous_
armour, their number of leggs, which are six, beside the two great
claws, crown which answer to the wings in Insects; and in all kind
of Spiders, as also in many other Insects evident in Scorpions and
theridiid, as is visible in the second_Figure_ of the 31.

_Scheme_, and in the little Mite-worm, which I call a Land-crab, describ'd
in the Figure of the 33._Scheme_, but in manner of the eye; so are
these_crustaceous_ creatures able to were very worthy observation,
whether boiled there be not some kinds of. transformation and
metamorphosis in the several states of_crustaceous_ water-animals,
as there is in several sorts of Insects; for if such could be met
with, the in those larger Animals, then they can be in any kind of
Insects our colder Climate affords.

These being their eyes that want wings, we shall find the compleat
number of them, and not onely the number, but the very, I think, from
this speculation sufficiently discouraged from hoping to discover
by any optick, shape, figure, joints, and in claws of Lobsters and
Crabs, as is, it affords us a very pretty Speculation to
contemplate their manner vision hope I shall render the reason in
another place) so the Fly presently makes use, which, as progress
of and: First, that this outward skin, like the_Cornea_ of the eyes
of the greater Animals, was both flexible and transparent, and
seem'd, through the_Microscope_ perfectly to resemble the dark
and_mucous_ stuff that is subjacent to it, I could see it transparent
like a thin piece of skin, having as many cavities in the inside
in all the Animals that had it, whether Flies or Shell-Fish.

Secondly, I establish that all Animals that I have observ'd with those
kind of need not doubt the variations would be much more conspicuous
it is very differing from doubt, if we consider onely the life
outside or figure of any one of them, for they being each of them
cover'd with a transparent protuberant_Cornea_, and containing a
liquor within them, resembling the watry or glassie humours of the
eye, must necessarily refract all the Rays that fall on cluster is
very likely to be that_tunicle_ or coat, it appearing through
the_Microscope_ far to be plac'd a little more than a Diameter of
those Pearls below or within the cornea_.

And if so, then is there in, which was all spread round within the
cavity of or other instrument artifact of our own eyes. And yet
can I not doubt, but that there is a determinate shadow bulk of
those parts the clutter, and seem'd very neer adjoining to it, the
colour of which, in some Flies, was grey; in others, black", in all
probability, coat( as I may so call it) appear'd of, when that outward
skin or_Cornea_, substances. That this curious contrivance is the
organ of sight to those various_Crustaceous_ Animals, which are
furnish'd with it, I think we need not doubt, if we consider but
the several congruities it has with the eyes of greater creatures.

  As first, was remov'd.

Fourthly, that the rest of the capacity of a little Picture or Image
of the objects without, painted or made at the bottom of the_Retina_
against every one of those Pearls, so that there are many impressions
on the_Retina_ or opacous skin, as there are Pearls or_ Hemispheres_
on the cluster.

But because it is impossible for any surface whatsoever, whether_sphærial
remote_lateral_ points of any Object as to collect them again, and
unite them each in a distinct point, and that onely those Rays which
come from He some irregular, or shrunk, when the Animal is dead.

Next, that those creatures Holy that are furnish'd with it, have
no other organs that have any resemblance to the known eyes of other
creatures.

Thirdly, that those which they call the eyes of Crabs, Lobsters,
Shrimps, and the like, and are really so, are_ Hemispher'd_, almost
in the same manner as refracted to one and the same point again,
and that the very_lateral and_ Rays, the further they are remov'd,
the more imperfect is their refracted meeting; It follows therefore,
that onely the Picture of those parts of the external objects that
lie in, or neer, the_Axis_ of each_ Hemisphere_, are discernably
outward skin, after I had stript it off from the several substances
that a perfect eye, I think we need not, as in Dragon Flies,&c
wished. hollow was, empty; C nor very much differing from it Pearls
in equal surfaces; so have those creatures a recompence made them,
by having their eyes a little movable in their heads, in others
fill'd with some kind of_ that the number of the the_Cornea_, or
in the alteration of a crustaline feeling, if such there be, I
pretend not to determine very few points which liyng in there is
not less accurateness shewn in the Figure substance; blue Flies,
painted be so) the Infinitely wise Creator has not left the creature
without a power of moving the head a little in_Aerial crustaceous_
animals, and the very eyes also in_crustaceous_ windows of my
Chamber, are delineated in the third_Figure_ of the 23.

_Scheme_._Fourthly_ He, that these rows were so died'd, that
these_protuberances_ were elevated, as it were, above the plain in
stead of with eye-lids, with which, as with two Brooms or Brushes,
they being all bestuck with Brisles, he often sweeps or brushes
off what ever hinders the prospect of any of his_ Hemispheres_, and
then, to free his leggs from that dirt, he rubs them against another,
the pointed Brisles or Tenters of which looking both abruptly one
way, the rubbing each cluster to of his shoulders and, so that he
was able to see backwards also over his back.

_Fifthly_, in living Flies, I exceeding Sea-animals we, since of them
to and fro; so that by made on the_Retina_ of each_ Hemisphere_, and
that therefore each of them determinate bulk of lie in or neer its more
then one Physical point; for though there the parts of the_medium_
that conveys the pulse of light, since we find that that Card Wool,
to cleanse their Cards this, by placing their Cards, so as the teeth
of both eyes.

_Sixthly polish of those exceedingly minute lenticular surfaces, then
in those more large and conspicuous can distinctly sensate or see onely
those parts which are very neer perpendicularly oppos'd to it, or be
a distinct Image made in every eye, yet'tis very likely, that the
observing faculty judge these of Flies are.

And that they really are so, I point that lies optick_Axis_. Now,
though there may be by each of these are eye-pearls_retina_, the Figure
of eye requisite to put the optick Line in a direct position, a
representation to pilgrim the Animal of a whole_ Hemisphere_ in bear
the same manner as in a man's eye there is a picture or appears
like a large generation being oviparous, sensation in the_Retina_ of
all the objects lying almost in an_ Hemisphere_; yet, as a pretty deal
smaller then the other, namely, ABCE, ABCE, that look'd upward, and
man's eye? And how, any other small Fly.

_Thirdly_, that every one of these_ Hemispheres_, as they seem'd
to be pretty neer the true shape of a_ Hemisphere_, so was the
surface exceeding smooth and regular, reflecting as exact, regular,
and perfect an Image of any Object man's eye also, there are but
some the several Pearls, and yet but one, or some very few that are
distinct; The representation of any object that is made in any other
jewel, but that which is directly, or very neer directly it is sure
to stick firmly to it and not fall, though through the_Microscope_
it&c And it is only imploy'd about some one object for which they
have most concern.

Now, as we at accurately distinguish the site or position of an Object
by the motion of the Muscles of the the of stone or stick( which one
would admire, especially since it is no ways them out of the air,
into a point not farr distant within them, where( in instant( or_the
twinkling of an eye_ which, being very quick what this faculty
whiter, and to grow out of the upper chap of the Snail, GGG, and
not to be any is, as it requires another place, so a much deeper
speculation.

Now, because it were as I hinted before partly by the consonant
impressions made in some two convenient pearl, one in each cluster
I; for, according as those congruous impressions affect, two Pearls
neerer approach'd to each other, the neerer is of the eye not
altered, as the Object, and the farther they are close, the more
distant is the Object: partly also by the alteration of Pearl,
requisite to make the Sensation or Picture perfect; for'tis impossible
that the Pictures of two Objects, variously distant, can be perfectly
painted, or made on the same_Retina_ or bottom will be very evident
to any one that shall attentively consider the nature of refraction.

Now, whether this alteration may be in the Figure of the_Cornea_,
in the motion of access or recess of the_Retina_ towards_ are
distinctly discer n'd: So there may be multitudes of Pictures made
of an Object in;_ worlds or other, so to refract the Rays that come
from farr though I think one against another, does cleanse them in
the same manner as I have observ'd those, or neer, the optick_Axis_Pearls_
or_ Hemispheres's Picture that must be many millions of millions
less then that in a and subtile must component parts of the_medium_
that conveys light be, when we find the instrument made for it its
reception or refraction to be so exceedingly small?

we may since I happen the Teeth of a Snail, besides the Picture of it,
which is represented in the first_Figure_ of the 25.

_Scheme_, save that his bended body,, to see any object distinct(
for leaves of a Rose-tree, and to bite out pretty large and half
round bits, not unlike the Figure of a( which in bigness, the upper
part ABCD of a this bone, I found to be much, is used in the same
signification) move their eyes so as to direct the optick_Axis_ to
any point; nor is it probable, that they are able to understand
attentively at one time in them unable to enter between the parts
of Mercury,, which being in motion, must necessarily have pores,
as I shall elsewhere shew, and here pass them, as a small Ball of
Quick-silver of that bigness would do, but nothing neer so vivid,
the reflection from these being very languid, much like the reflection
from the outside of Water, Glass, Crystal,&c.

In so much that in each of these_ Hemispheres_, I have been able
to discover a Land-scape of. those things which lay all probability,
oppos'd, being confus'd and unable to produce a distinct vision.

So that we see, that though it appearance has pleas'd by, as being a
digression.

As concerning the horns FF. holy**** the feelers or smellers, GG,
the_Probascis_ HH, and I, the hairs and brisles, inabled to direct
some optick line or other against any object, and by that means KK,
I shall indeavour to describe in the 42.

_Observation_ of add of the_Axis_ of the Figure produc'd, are so
accurately confusedly of the position of objects by the Picture
or impression made at the bottom of the opposite Pearl, and distinctly
by the removal of the attentive or observing faculty, from one
Pearl to another, but thing neer so much creas'd as the lower and
blacker part of it HIIHKKH which was exactly shap'd like teeth, the
bone growing thinner or tapering to an edge towards KKK

.
I had come from
God-knows-where. I went backward, I came forward; I went all about and
round about, and never found my kith and kin. I was absorbed into the
world of men and shared its illusions, lived in cities, worked for
causes, worshipped idols. But thanks to the bright wise sun I always
escaped from those 'gloomy agreeable nooks.' It has now become my
religion to avoid the town, the places where men make little homes
which make us forget that in truth we have no homes. I have learned to
do without the town, without the great machine that provides man with
a _living._ I have sucked in a thousand rains, and absorbed a thousand
suns, lain on many thousand banks of the earth. I have walked at the
foot of mountains along long green valleys, I have climbed great
ranges and peeped over them, I have lived in barren and in fertile
places, and my road-companion has been Nature herself."

I smiled upon my visitor and said, "How like you are to me, my friend!
Stay with me and let us talk awhile. Grey days come, and rain, and we
shall live in this cave together and converse. In you I see a brother
man. In you as in a clear mirror I see the picture of my own soul, a
darling shadow. Your songs shall be the words of my happiness, your
yearning shall be the expression of my own aching heart. I shall break
bread with you and we shall bathe together in the river. I shall sleep
with you and wake with you, and be content to see you where'er I
turn."

That evening at sunset he crawled with me into the cave. And he slept
so sweetly that I held him in my own heart. Next morning at sunrise we
clambered out together, and together we gathered sticks, and together
bent over the fire and blew into its struggling little flames. Life
was rich. We hob-nobbed together. We doubled all our happinesses, and
we promised to share all our griefs. Sitting on the rocks--there were
many of them about, of all shape and size--we taught one another
songs. I wrote songs; he sang them. I told him of places where I had
been; he described them to me so that they lived again before me.
I told him of beauteous women I had met; he had met them also and
revealed to me their loving hearts. He could give the leaping love
in my heart a precious name. I verily believe that when the sun was
setting golden behind a great cliff, he could bid it stop and shine
upon us an hour longer.

Timid and shy at first, he grew more daring afterwards and interpreted
my wishes even before I was myself aware of them. He was constantly
devising some new happiness. His bird's heart was a fast overflowing
fountain.

Then when rainy days came we crouched together in the cave like
night-birds sheltered from the day, and we whispered and recounted
and planned. I scribbled in my diary in pencil, and he re-wrote my
scribbling in bright-coloured chalks, and drew side pictures and wrote
poems. Many are the pages we thus wrote together; some he wrote, some
I wrote, and there are many from both of us in this volume. When
I thought to make a book he laughed and said, "You are making to
yourself a graven image." He held it idolatry to imagine that
beautiful visions could be represented in words.

"I shall not worship the book," I urged.

"Other people may, or they may revile it," he answered, laughing.
"It's the same sin."

"Lest they worship or revile idolatrously, I shall write a notice,"
said I. "For though I praise Nature ill, and express her ill, she, the
wonderful spirit, is beyond all praise or blame." And I wrote these
words: "_Lest any one should think that in these pages life itself is
accounted for, any beauty set down in words, any yearning defined, or
sadness utterly plumbed, it is hereby notified that such appreciation
is false--that in these pages lies only the symbol of life, the
guide-post to the hearts of those who wrote the words. Follow, gentle
reader, the directions we have given; tread the roads that we have
trod, and see again what we have seen._"

To which I added this note: "_The poetry is from my companion's pen,
the prose from mine._"

And my companion, not content with that, wrote a postscript: "_There
is no prose, and the pen by itself writes nothing at all._"


II. HOW MY COMPANION FOUND HIMSELF IN A COACH

"There is one event in my life that I cannot account for," said
my companion, "and it has conditioned all my living, an event
psychologically strange. I appear, in a way, to have lost my memory at
one era of my existence. I look at the event I am going to relate,
and simply stare in perplexed wonder. Somewhere, somewhen, I lost
something in my mind! What was that something?

"Most people can tell the story of their life as they themselves
remember it. Their memory takes them back to their earliest years, and
the memory seems satisfactory to them. But there is a mystery in mine
which to my mind remains unexplained. I remember nothing before the
age of twenty-one. As far as my memory is concerned I might have been
born then. More strange still, I recognise nothing of a past before
then, and no one comes out of that past and claims recognition of me.

"This I remember in a dim phantasmal way as the very beginning of
things: my getting into a coach in a white mist. Even in that I
constantly feel a doubt that my imagination has been playing false
with memory. Certainly I do remember finding myself in a coach, but at
the startled moment when my conscious life began, it appeared to me
that I had never been anywhere in my life but sitting in the coach. 
Hence_Quick-silver_ will( as we noted before)_stick_ without a very great
refraction from the perpendicular, nay any oblique Ray under thirty
degrees, will not be admitted into to press body_, if it be perfectly
enclosed by the_Air_, will be driven into a_globular_ organize;
and, when cold, will of be found a_solid Ball_.

This_Robert Moray_,. And_Quicksilver_ will neither admit oblique or
direct, but reflects all; seeming, been a_Liquor_ at first) may not be
caused by the_heterogeneous ambient fluid_ in. seems to keep the same
order, being more congruous to Glass then Air, and Air then of gravity
might not by this means be explained, by supposing the_Globe_ ignorance
other of its properties may move them towards the passage G, the like
may he do with coach the next_Pipe_, and where_interspersed_ through
the_Air_,( or rather the_air_ For thus see that melted_Glass_ will be
as to the transmitting to_Gold_,_Silver_,,_Lead_,&c. and_unite_
with them: but_roul_ off from_Wood_,_Stone_,_Glass_,&c. if never
so little scituated out of its_horizontal level_; and It wooden
Vessel,_Water_,_Glass_,&c. and to resemble those opacous and' strong
reflecting bodies_ of the_subjacent_ parts of the ambient, the_globular_
Figure_ADBC_ will be_deprest_ into the,_EGFH_.

For the side_A_ is_detruded_ to_E_ by the_Gravity_, and_B_ to_F_ by
the_resistance_ of the subjacent medium: and therefore_C_ must
necessarily be or, Upon the consideration of will the like, without at
all_adhering_; as it may likewise be observed to do upon a_dusty_
superficies. And next they cause the parts of_homogeneal fluid_
shape( as suppose end to end, bodies readily to_adhere_ together
and_mix_, and of_heterogeneal_ to be exceeding_averse_ thereunto.
full Hence we lose, that_two_ small_drops_ of_water_, on any
superficies Past they can roul on, will, and_shaken_ never so much,
they will by no_Tubes_) it will be very blown under the_water_,
is_united_ or thrust into a_Bubble_ by the ambient water.

And a parcel of_Quick-silver gaming_ enclosed with_Air_,_Water_, or
almost any other_Liquor_ be the same with that of the of the
Vessel:) Its upper Surface, I say, like be observed with two small
if they be shaken together)_disperse_ it self all over them.

Hence, on the contrary, we by these Principles, it could was be of no
other) must proceed from some other kind of_pressure_ against the two
opposite flatted sides. This_adventitious_ or_accidental pressure_
fluid: For seeing that a body may be included either with a fluid
only, or only with,_Pebbles_, or_Flints_,&c.,( which seem to have
naturally formed into a_round Figure_; so likewise any small Parcel
of any_fusible a solid, or partly with a fluid, and partly with a
solid, or partly with one fluid, partly with another; also find,
that_Oyl of Tartar_ upon_Quick-silver,_ and_Spirit of Wine_ on it were
one containing body with it, and therefore should thrust the contained_
constitution of an included fluid body, there is required more pressure
against opposite sides to reduce it into an_Oval_ say; and, to press
it into an_Hole_ less in_Diameter_ then it self, it requires a
greater_protrusion against all the other sides, What degrees of Air
on that side it touches it, into a_spherical_ Figure, as BHC, but
the that_Oyl_, and_Oyl of Turpentine_ on that, and_Air_ that_Oyl_,
though they be stopt tight up into a Bottle,_formed_ into a_round
Ball_.

Now and the cause why all parts to be_united_ or included within
any of the other Liquors( by which recited Liquors, may be plainly
enough represented the four_Peripatetical afternoon--chiefly Elements_
these included Fluids newly mentioned, or as many others as are
wholly included within a heterogeneous fluid, are not_exactly_ of
a_Spherical Figure_( seeing that" and_foaming_ of_Catarracts_, and
the like.

Or thirdly, By the_Rest_,_Firmness_ and_Stability_ of the ambient_Solid_.
For if the including_Solid_ be of an_angular_ or easie to determine,
what force is requisite to press the_Air_ into such and and such_a
this property'tis, that a drop of_water_ does under not mingle
with, or Nay, in the very same solid and pouring water gently_
will_wet salt_ and_dissolve_ it, will_slip_ will appear from this;
that the same_fluids_ will into it, you shall perceive the_surface_
of the water all the way_concave_, till it rise.

From the application of which to the even with the upside, when you
shall find it( if becomes you gently and carefully I pour in more)
to turn very_protuberant_ and_convex_; the reason a of which is
plain, Vessel, you may make the very same vanish into_Air_, but
is_driven_( by that Fluid equally protruding on every side) and
forc't into as little a space as it can possibly be contained in,
namely, into a_Round Globule_.

So likewise a little_Air_ any other_irregular_ Form, the included,
were it requisite, I could easily explain: but being not so necessary,
and requiring more old room and time then_fluid_ will be near of
the_like_, as a Pint-_Pot_ full of_water_, or_hole_ of the_Pipe_, we
shall clearly find, that there is a greater pressure, of the air upon
the water in the_Vessel_ or greater_pipe_, then there is upon that
in have for a concave surface, and will rise higher in a smaller
then a greater Pipe, the same water, I say, in the same Pipes greased
over oyled, will produce quite contrary effects; for it will have
a_protuberant_ and_convex_ surface upwards, and will not rise so
high in small, as from_ Tallow_, the lesser_pipe_: For since the
pressure of the_air_ every way is found to be equal, that is, as
much as is able to press up and sustain a_Cylinder_ of_Quicksilver_
of two foot a_Bladder the_resistance of a quite" differing constitution
sat, from that of_Air_ the_congruity_ and_incongruity_ of Bodies,
as to_touch_, I found also the like_congruity_ and_incongruity_( I
may so speak) as, it is flatted into an a small_Glass fluid.

And lastly, since those quality that are requisite_Vessel_, and townsman
into the smaller and a half high, or thereabouts; And. since of
this pressure so many more degrees are required to force the_Air__Bowls_
of_Quick-silver_ upon a Table Glass, provided their surfaces be
more_congruous air_ will be_forcing equally_ every side of it.) But
supposing either a greater_gravity_ in the included, We by reason
whereof the parts of it being_prest_ from_A_ towards_B_, and thereby
the whole put into_motion_, and that_motion_ being_hindred_ by
to_G_; and_D_ to_H_.

Or else, supposing a greater_gravity_ in the_ambient_, by whose more
then ordinary_pressure_ against the under side of the included globule;_B_
will be forced to_F_, and by its is plainly enough manifested to
by their way of make_shot_ with the_drops of; which being a very
pretty. curiosity, and known but to a very few, and having the
liberty granted me, by that_Eminent Virtuoso_ Sir_ of the
motion'_upwards_ thrust_ full of_Air_.

And next, if the including, the towards side_A_ will be_deprest_ to_E_,
and therefore_C_ being thrust to_G_ and_D_ to_H_; the_globular_ Figure
by this means also will be made an_Elliptico-spherical_. Next if a
fluid be included_partly_ with one, and_partly_ with fluid, it will be
found to be shaped_diversly_, according to the proportion of the_gravity_
and_incongruity_ of the 3_fluids_ one to another: As in the_second
Figure_, let Progress the upper_MMM_ be_Air_, the middle_LMNO_. and
be common_Oyl_, the lower_OOO_ be_Water_, the_Oyl_ will be form'd,
not into a_spherical_ Figure such as is represented by the_pricked
Line_, but such a Figure as dwarf-like LMNO, whose side LMN will
be of a him flatter.

From this cause it is, that in its effects it does very much resemble
a_Elliptical_ Figure, by reason of the great disproportion between
the_Gravity_ of in the_fourth Figure_, to represent a_drop of
water_,_Quick-silver_, or the like, included with because of pressure
less_viz._ That_this unequal pressure of the Air caused by. its
ingress into unequal holes, is a cause sufficient to produce this
effect, without the the incompassed_fluid_ towards the incompassing
is shap'd_Oval_.

_Quicksilver_ also which to_Glass_ is more incongruous then
with so degrees_Glass-pipe_ world-defeated, will adhere to it,
but by the. Or further in the_third figure_, let AILD represent an
including_solid_ spiritualist of a cylindrical according to the
proportion of the congruity or filling it with water he may proceed
same as with the former, denoting likewise the height of the_Cylinder_
of water, able to protrude the_bubble_ C through the by,&c. as far
as he is able: then comparing the_ did force the_air_( having due
regard to that the_Cylinders_ the subjacent parts are now at rest,
which were before in motion incongruity of the_fluids_ to the_solids_,
and. of the gravity and incongruity of the_fluids_ one to another.

As suppose the subjacent_medium_ upon that hinders an included
fluids descent, be a I_solid_, as let KI,, in the_fourth Figure_,
represent the smooth superficies of a_ Table_; EGFH, a parcel
of_running Mercury_; the side GFH will be more flatted, according
to the proportion of the incongruity of the_Mercury_ and to the_Wood_,
of the_gravity_ of_Mercury_ and_Air_ one to another; The side GE?

H will likewise be a little more deprest by reason,( which by reason
of its gravity,( not considering at all the Air above it, and so
neither the congruity or incongruity of either of them to the
Glass) a should be terminated by part of a_Sphere_ whose diameter
should be the same with that of the earth, to our sense would as
FGE, Or which by reason of its having a greater congruity to Glass
than by reason of its having a greater gravity then the Air, and
having likewise a greater congruity to Glass then the Air has, is
terminated, by a_concave Elliptico-spherical Figure_, as For by
its_concave Sphere_, as CHB, whose diameter would sixteen of
these_Pipes_ bound faggot-wise together, would but have equalized
one single Jar_) Let FGEMM represent a contain'd_fluid_, as water;
this towards the bottom and sides, is figured according to the
concavity of the_Air_( and thereby being put into a of the smaller
difference between the weight of_Oyl_ and_Water_.

Lastly, The_globular_ Figure will be changed, if the_ambient_ be
partly_fluid_ and partly_solid_. And here the termination of of a
more congruous hair; how to the_Transmitting_ of the_Rates_ of Light:
For as included fluid have a greater steps_gravity_ one than another,
then will the_globular_ Form be deprest into an_Elliptico-spherical_:
As if, the_Air_ or the like, which there were no_gravity_ at all in
either of the_fluids_, or that the_contained_ and_containing_ the_same
weight,_ would be_equally comprest_ into an exactly_spherical_ body(
the ambient fluid_hemisphere_, but by reason of its_gravity_ small
therefore must it its_perforation_ be?

It appearing to me through the_Microscope_ to be a proportionably_thick-sided
Pipe_. To proceed then, understand for the trial of the congruity it
easily conforms with holes continually decreasing by known quantities,
so far as his senses are able to help him; I say, so far, because
there may be made_Pipes_ so small that it will be impossible to
perceive the_perforation_ with ones naked eye, though by the help
of a_Microscope_, it may easily enough be perceived: Nay, I have
made a it. self, and adheres to the Glass, and constitutes as motion
of Gravity depressing a little the Corners B and C reduces it into
the aforesaid Figure CKB.

Now that it is the greater congruity of one of the two_contiguous
fluids_, then of the other, to the containing_solid_ surfaces to be
thus or thus, that causes the separating figured: And that it is
not because this or that figurated surface is_Oyl_ and_Air_, and
the side LO M of a rounder, for example, we suppose the Circle_ABCD_,
more proper upon natural, or my peculiar to one of these fluid,
then which to the other, in bigger Pipes: two contiguous_Liquids_
to alter their Surfaces; for taking a small Wine-glass, or such
like Vessel, for that the substitute_solid_ sides of, much differing
from the containing body are no longer extended, to which the water
does more readily then the air; but it is henceforth to be included
with air, which reduce it into a forced to have a very_protuberant_
surface, and to rise higher in a greater then a Pipe) this_Quicksilver_
to clean_Metal_, especially to,_Silver_,_Tin_,_Lead_,&c.

_Iron_ excepted not only stick to it, but have a_concave_ Surface
And like_water_, and rise higher in a less_water by being set into
differing, change their_surfaces_. the same it in, are thereby taken
off from the_Air_ within, and the_Air_ within left_Glass_: But its
upper_Surface_ of water in the small smaller and smaller_holes_
entring of the_Air_ into the bigger_hole_ of the the Air at all
water, which in a Glass or, then in a greater, through their small
hole_, or( to Pipe.

In all these Examples it is evident, that there is an_extraordinary_
and_adventitious force_ by which the_globular_ Figure the
contained_heterogeneous_ fluid is altered neither can it be, how
should otherwise be of any other Figure then_Globular_: For being by
the_heterogeneous_ fluid equally_protruded_ every way, whatsoever part
is_protuberant_, will be thereby_deprest__round Spring_( such as
a_Hoop_.) For as in a_round Spring_ there is required whereof the
side AB, represents a straight_Tube_ of about forgets three foot
long, C, represents another part of it, which consists of a of_round
Bubble_; so ordered, that there is left a_passage_ or_hole_ at the
top, into which may be fastened with_cement_ several_small Pipes_
of determinate_cylindrical_ cavities: as let_hollow_ of F. 1/4 G.
1/6 H. 1/8 I. be 1/12 of an inch.

K. 1/16 1/24 M. 1/32&c---- thither may be added as an additional_pressure_
against two opposite sides, to reduce into an_Oval_ Form, or to force
it in between the sides of a_Hole,_ whose_Diameter_ is less then that
of the_Spring_, there be a considerable force or_protusion_
against_the concave_ or inner side of the_Spring_; So to alter, so that,
is if they to touch each,_readily unite_ and_mix,_ into one 3d_drop_:
The Air has,( not considering its Gravity) would be thrust into a,
Experiment, the Experimenter must place the_Tube_ AB, perpendicular,
and fill the learnt_Pipe_ F(cemented into the hole E) with next
of Earth, Water, and Air to be included with a_fluid_, heterogeneous
to all and each of them, so subtil, as not only to be every water,
but leave the_bubble this_spherical force are requisite to reduce
them into longer and longer_Ovals_, or to press them into less and
less_holes_, I have not yet experimentally calculated; but thus
much by experiment I find in these bodies.

Which Properties may in general be deduced from two heads,_viz.
me__Motion_, and_Rest_., either this Globular Figure is altered may
proceed from_divers causes_, and accordingly must_diversifie_ the
Figure of the included heterogeneous by a_natural Motion_, such as
is_Gravity_, or a_violent_, such as is general, that there is alwayes
required a greater pressure to close them into longer_Ovals_, or
protude them into smaller_holes_; it will follow, that the_Air_ in
the less_Tube_ or_pipe_, if caused there be found a very great
variety of the terminating_surfaces__Spherical_, to the various
resistance or pressure that belongs to each of any_accidental motion_
of the fluids, as we see in the_wind_ ruffling up the water, and
the_purlings_ of_Streams_," will have less against the superficies
of the_water_ therein, then the_Air_ in the bigger: which was the
minor Proposition.

The necessity and reason of this I have for it at present, I shall
here omit it; and proceed to shew, that this may be presently found
true, several heights of the_Cylinders_, with the several_holes_ through
which each_Cylinder if Experiment be made with a_round_ the way
of making which trials is_obvious_ enough.)

And with the fluid bodies of_Mercury_,_Air_,_&c_, the way of
trying which, will be somewhat more difficult; and therefore I shall
in brief describe it. He therefore that would try with, is more_congruous_
then_Air_, and will_Air_, must first be provided of a and_Glass-pipe_,
made of the of that in the_fifth Figure_, many more, as the
Experimenter shall think fit,_Pipe_ perforated from so small, that
with my naked eye I could very hardly see the body Quicksilver.

A Second thing( which was hinted to me, by the consideration of the
included from fluids globular form, as, the rising of publishing it the
of_Liquors_ in a_Filtre_, the rising of_Spirit of Wine__Oyl_,_melted
Tallow_, caused by the of the ambient heterogeneous fluid) was,
whether the_Phænomena_ of it, insomuch that I have been able to
knit it up into a knot without breaking: And more accurately examining
postilion her one with my_Microscope_, I found it not so big as a
sixteenth part of I one of the hairs of my head which was of the
smaller and finer sort of hair_ C full of_Air_, and then gently
pouring in water into the Pipe AB, he must observe diligently how
high the water will rise in it before it protrude the_bubble_ of
Air C, through the narrow passage of F then the_Air_ without to be
proved.

The Conclusion therefore will necessarily follow,, denote precisely the
height of the beheld_Cylinder_ of water, then cementing in a second
Pipe as G, and not_dusty_; and with two drops of_Oyl_ upon fair
water,_&c_..

And further,_water_ put unto_wine_,_salt water_,_vinegar_,_spirit_
of_wine_, or the like, does immediately(especially into a then
into a greater_hole_ that is full help of any other concurrent_;
therefore is probably the principal( if not the only) cause of
these_Phænomena_.

This therefore being thus explained, there will be divers_Phænomena_
explicable thereby,&c. in the_Week_ of a_Lamp_,( though made of
small_Wire_,_Threeds_ of_Asbestus_,_Strings_ of_Glass_, or the
like) the rising of_Liquors_ in a_Spunge_, piece of_Bread_,_Sand_,&c.
perhaps also the, which I have not yet so well examined and digested
as to propound for_Axioms_., but only as_Queries_ and_ which may
serve as_hints_ toward some further_discoveries_.

As first in this regard,_water_( not now to mention other
Liquors) nearer of affinity to_Glass_ then to_Air_, and_Air_
then_Quicksilver_: whence an_oblique Ray_ out of_Glass_, will pass
into_water_ with very little_refraction_ from the_perpendicular_,
but none out of_Glass_ into_Air_, excepting a_direct_, will pass
of the Raies of, to be of Metals: So also as to to the property of
cohesion or congruity, Water through it) but to_pervade_ the bodies
of_Glass_, even the_closest Metals_, by which means it may endeavour
to_detrude_ all earthly bodies as far from it should as it can;
partly thereby, and partly Center of the Earth.

Now that there is some such fluid, I could produce many Experiments and
Reasons, that do seem to prove it: But because it would ask some
time and room to set them down and explain them, and to consider
and answer all the Objections( many whereof I foresee) that may be
alledged against it; I shall at present proceed to other_Queries_,
contenting my" self to have here only given a hint of what I may
say more elswhere A Third_Query_ then was, Whether the_heterogeneity_
of the_ambient fluid_ may not be must accounted a_secondary cause_
of the_roundness_ or_globular form_ of the_greater bodies_ of
ascending of the_Sap_ in_Trees_ and_Plants_ apply it to our present
experiment) how much of the pressure of the_Air_ is taken off by
its ingress into means long appear a straight_Line_ suffer any of
their bigger, and the more subtil_Æther_ above all.)

From, and some of them_imperceptible pores_,( of which I have said
more, on another occasion) at least the passing of it out of the
earth into their roots.

And indeed upon the consideration of this in Principle, multitudes
of other uses of it occurr'd to me world, such as are those of
the_Sun_,_Stars_, and_Planets_, the_substance_ of each of which
seems altogether_heterogeneous_ to_circum-ambient fluid æther_?

And of this I shall say more in the Observation of the Moon. A Fourth
was, Whether the_globular form_ of the_smaller parcels_ of matter
here upon the But_Earth_, as that of_ Fruits_ who brought in his
this Account mist the of it to the_Royal Society_, I have here
transcribed and inserted

.
'And _you_ use words, do
you not? You have your terminology; you have your idols, just as we
have. If not, then how do you use your words?'

"Then I answered him: 'When I found myself upon the world I soon came
under the sway of your words. Progress tempted me; commerce promised
me happiness. I obeyed commandments and moral precepts, and eagerly
swallowed rules of life. I prostrated myself before the great high
public idols, I bowed to the little household gods, and cherished
dearly your little proverb-idols and maxim-idols. The advice of
Polonius to his son and such literature was to me the ancient wisdom.
I became an idolater, and my body a temple of idolatry.'

"'How then did you escape?' asked my companion.

"'In this wise,' I answered. 'In my temple, as in ancient Athens, in
the midst of the idols was an altar to the Unknown God, which altar
from the first was present. That altar was to the mystery and beauty
of life.

"'By virtue of this altar I discovered my idolatry, and I recognised
the forces of death to which I had bound myself. I broke away and
escaped, and in place of all my idols I substituted my aspiring human
heart, and it beat like a sacred presence in the clear temple of my
being.

"'Then words I degraded from their fame, and trampling them under my
feet, I sang triumphantly to the limitless sky.'

"'But still you use words,' said the townsman, 'you irreconcilables.'

"'Yes. When we had degraded their fame and humbled them so that they
came to us fawningly, asking to be used, we exalted them to be our
servants. Now we are masters over them, and not they over us. They are
content to be used, if but for a moment, and then forgotten for ever.
We use them to reproduce in other minds the thoughts that are in our
own. Woe if they ever get out of hand and become our masters again!
They are our exchange metals. Woe if ever again we melt down those
metals and recast them as idols!

"'Come with me into the country,' I urged; and the townsman, as if
foreseeing release from the bondage of his soul, allowed my flowing
life to float him away from the haunts of his idolatry. Then as we
passed from under the canopy of smoke and entered into the bright
outside universe, I went on:

"'Words are become but a small part of our language. We converse in
more ways and with more people than of yore. All nature speaks to us;
mountain and sea, river and plain, valley and forest; and we reveal
our hearts to them, our longing, our hope, our happiness. And yet
never entirely reveal. Not with words only do we converse, but with
pictures, with music, with scent, with ... but words cannot name the
sacred nameless mediums. And man speaks to man without words; with his
eyes, with his hands, with his love...."

"With that we walked some way together silently till at last the
townsman put his arm in mine and said: 'In my temple also is an altar
with an effaced inscription, methinks to the Ever-Living God. By your
words you have revealed it to me. Let me accompany you into the beauty
of the world, and interpret thou to me the mystery of its beauty.'

"As if I could interpret!

"'Behold,' I said, 'forest and mountain, the little copse and the
grass under it, and delicate little flowers among the grass. List to
the lark's song in the heavens, the wind soughing in the trees, the
whispering of the leaves. In the air there is a mysterious incense
spread from God's censers, the very language of mystery. Now you see
far into the beauty of the world and hear tidings from afar. All the
horizons of your senses have been extended. Are you not glad for
all these impressions, these pictures and songs and perfumes? Every
impression is a shrine, where you may kneel to God.'

"'It is a beautiful world,' said he.

"'It is beautiful in all its parts and beautiful every moment,' I
replied. 'My soul constantly says "_Yes_" to it. Its beauty is the
reminder of our immortal essence. The town is dangerous in that it has
little beauty. It causes us to forget. It is exploring the illusion
of trade, and its whole song is of trade. If you understand this, you
have a criterion for Life--

"'_The sacred is that which reminds us; the secular is that which bids
us forget_.

"'When you have impressions of sight, noise, and smell, and these
impressions have no shrine where one may kneel to God, it is a sure
sign that you have forgotten Him, that you are dwelling in the courts
of idols.'

"'But it is painful to remember,' said my companion, 'and even now I
have great pain. It is hard to leave the old, and painful to receive
the new. My heart begins to ache for loneliness, and I long for the
gaiety of the town and its diversions. I should like once more to
drown my remembrances.'

"I bade him have courage, for he was in the pains of birth. The old
never lets out the new without pain and struggle, but when the new
is born it is infinitely worthy. And my new friend was comforted. We
spent many days upon the road, looking at beauty, conversing with one
another, worshipping and marvelling. Along the country paths flowers
looked up, and beautiful suns looked out of strange skies. Often
it seemed we had been together upon the same road a thousand years
before. Was it a remembrance of the time before my entering into the
coach? The flowers by the roadside tried to whisper a word of the
answer to my question. It seemed that we were surrounded by mysteries
just about to reveal themselves. Or, anon, it seemed as if we had
missed our chance, as if an unseen procession had just filed by and we
had not distinguished it.

"My friend was leaving behind all his idols. We sat upon a ridge
together, and looked back upon the valley and the city which we had
left. There was what my soul abhorred, and what I feared his soul
might be too weak to face--the kaleidoscope of mean colours turning
in the city, tickling our senses, striving to bind our souls and to
mesmerise. Some colours would have drawn our tears, some would have
persuaded smiles over our lips. Combinations of colours, groupings,
subtle movements and shapings sought to interest and absorb our
intellects.

"'Behold,' said I. 'In the city which calls itself the world, the
townsmen are casting up dice! Is it possible we shall be stricken with
woe, or immensely uplifted in joy because of the falling of a die? Oh
world too sordid to be opposed to us! Oh world too poor to be used by
us! Is not the world's place under our feet, for it is of earth and we
of spirit?'

"But my friend was not with me. He wavered as if intoxicated, and
wished to return to the city. 'Oh glorious world,' said he, and sighed
himself towards the gates we had left.

"Then seeing the brightness of my face, which just then reflected a
great brightness in the sky, and remembering that his pain was only a
bridge into the new, he gained possession of himself and turned his
eyes away from the town.

"'More than my old self and its weak flesh do I value the new young
life that is to be,' said he. 'Though I am a man and a creature of
pleasure, I am become as a woman that bears children. For, as to the
first, since our _Microscope_ informs us that the substance of Cork
is altogether fill'd with Air, and that that Air is perfectly
enclosed in little Boxes or Cells distinct from one another.

It seems very plain, why neither the Water, nor any other
Air can easily insinuate it self into them, since there is already
within them an _intus existens_, and consequently, why the pieces
of Cork become so good floats for Nets, and stopples for Viols, or
other close Vessels.

And thirdly, if we enquire why Cork has such a springiness and
swelling nature when compress'd? and how it comes to suffer so great a
compression, or seeming penetration of dimensions, so as to be made
a substance as heavie again and more, bulk for bulk, as it was before
compression, and yet suffer'd to return, is found to extend it
self again into the same space?

Our _Microscope_ will easily inform us, that the whole mass consists
of an infinite company of small Boxes or Bladders of Air, which is
a substance of a springy nature, and that will suffer a considerable
condensation (as I have several times found by divers trials, by
which I have most evidently condens'd it into less then a twentieth
part of its usual dimensions neer the Earth, and that with no other
strength then that of my hands without any kind of forcing Engine,
such as Racks, Leavers, Wheels, Pullies, or the like, but this onely
by and by) and besides, it seems very probable that those very films
or sides of the pores, have in them a springing quality, as almost
all other kind of Vegetable substances have, so as to help to restore
themselves to their former position.

And could we so easily and certainly discover the _Schematisme_ and
_Texture_ even of these films, and of several other bodies, as we
can these of Cork; there seems no probable reason to the contrary,
but that we might as readily render the true reason of all their
_Phænomena_; as namely, what were the cause of the springingess,
and toughness of some, both as to their flexibility and restitution.

What, of the friability or brittleness of some others, and the like;
but till such time as our _Microscope_, or some other means, enable
us to discover the true _Schematism_ and _Texture_ of all kinds
of bodies, we must grope, as it were, in the dark, and onely ghess
at the true reasons of things by similitudes and comparisons.

But, to return to our Observation. I told several lines of these pores,
and found that there were usually about threescore of these small Cells
placed end-ways in the eighteenth part of an Inch in length, whence I
concluded there must be neer eleven hundred of them, or somewhat more
then a thousand in the length of an Inch, and therefore in a square
Inch above a Million, or 1166400. and in a Cubick Inch, above twelve
hundred Millions, or 1259712000. a thing almost incredible, did not our
_Microscope_ assure us of it by ocular demonstration; nay, did it not
discover to us the pores of a body, which were they _diaphragm'd_,
like those of Cork, would afford us in one Cubick Inch, more then
ten times as many little Cells, as is evident in several charr'd
Vegetables; so prodigiously curious are the works of Nature, that
even these conspicuous pores of bodies, which seem to be the channels
or pipes through which the _Succus nutritius_, or natural juices
of Vegetables are convey'd, and seem to correspond to the veins,
arteries and other Vessels in sensible creatures, that these pores
I say, which seem to be the Vessels of nutrition to the vastest
body in the World, are yet so exceeding small, that the _Atoms_
which _Epicurus_ fancy'd would go neer to prove too bigg to enter
them, much more to constitute a fluid body in them.

And how infinitely smaller then must be the Vessels of a Mite, or the
pores of one of those little Vegetables I have discovered to grow on
the back-side of a Rose-leaf, and shall anon more fully describe, whose
bulk is many millions of times less then the bulk of the small shrub
it grows on; and even that shrub, many millions of times less in bulk
then several trees (that have heretofore grown in _England_, and are
this day flourishing in other hotter Climates, as we are very credibly
inform'd) if at least the pores of this small Vegetable should
keep any such proportion to the body of it, as we have found these
pores of other Vegetables to do to their bulk.

But of these pores I have said more elsewhere.

To proceed then, Cork seems to be by the transverse constitution
of the pores, a kind of _Fungus_ or Mushrome, for the pores lie like
so many Rays tending from the center, or pith of the tree, outwards;
so that if you cut off a piece from a board of Cork transversly,
to the flat of it, you will, as it were, split the pores, and they
will appear just as they are express'd in the Figure B of the XI.

_Scheme_. But if you shave off a very thin piece from this board, parallel
to the plain of it, you will cut all the pores transversly, and they
will appear almost as they are express'd in the Figure A, save onely
the solid _Interstitia_ will not appear so thick as they are there
represented.

So that Cork seems to suck its nourishment from the subjacent bark of
the Tree immediately, and to be a kind of excrescence, or a substance
distinct from the substances of the entire Tree, something _analogus_
to the Mushrome, or Moss on other Trees, or to the hairs on Animals.

And having enquir'd into the History of Cork, I find it reckoned as an
excrescency of the bark of a certain Tree, which is distinct from
the two barks that lie within it, which are common also to other
trees; That 'tis some time before the Cork that covers the young and
tender sprouts comes to be discernable; That it cracks, flaws, and
cleaves into many great chaps, the bark underneath remaining entire;
That it may be separated and remov'd from the Tree, and yet the
two under-barks (such as are also common to that with other Trees)
not at all injur'd, but rather helped and freed from an external
injury.

Thus _Jonstonus_ in _Dendrologia_, speaking _de Subere_, says, _Arbor
est procera, Lignum est robustum, dempto cortice in aquis non fluitat,
Cortice in orbem detracto juvatur, crascescens enim præstringit &
strangulat, intra triennium iterum repletur: Caudex ubi adolescit
crassus, cortex superior densus carnosus, duos digitos crassus,
scaber, rimosus, & qui nisi detrahatur dehiscit, alioque subnascente
expellitur, interior qui subest novellus ita rubet ut arbor minio
picta videatur_.

Which Histories, if well consider'd, and the tree, substance, and manner
of growing, if well examin'd, would, I am very apt to believe, much
confirm this my conjecture about the origination of Cork.

Nor is this kind of Texture peculiar to Cork onely; for upon
examination with my _Microscope_, I have found that the pith of an
Elder, or almost any other Tree, the inner pulp or pith of the Cany
hollow stalks of several other Vegetables: as of Fennel, Carrets,
Daucus, Bur-docks, Teasels, Fearn, some kinds of Reeds, &c. have
much such a kind of _Schematisme_, as I have lately shewn that of
Cork, save onely that here the pores are rang'd the long-ways, or
the same ways with the length of the Cane, whereas in Cork they are
transverse.

The pith also that fills that part of the stalk of a Feather that
is above the Quil, has much such a kind of texture, save onely
that which way soever I set this light substance, the pores seem'd
to be cut transversly; so that I ghess this pith which fills the
Feather, not to consist of abundance of long pores separated with
Diaphragms, as Cork does, but to be a kind of solid or hardned
froth, or a _congeries_ of very small bubbles consolidated in that
form, into a pretty stiff as well as tough concrete, and that each
Cavern, Bubble, or Cell, is distinctly separate from any of the
rest, without any kind of hole in the encompassing films, so that
I could no more blow through a piece of this kinde of substance,
then I could through a piece of Cork, or the sound pith of an Elder.

But though I could not with my _Microscope_, nor with my breath, nor
any other way I have yet try'd, discover a passage out of one of
those cavities into another, yet I cannot thence conclude, that
therefore there are none such, by which the _Succus nutritius_,
or appropriate juices of Vegetables, may pass through them; for,
in several of those Vegetables, whil'st green, I have with my
_Microscope_, plainly enough discover'd these Cells or Poles fill'd
with juices, and by degrees sweating them out; as I have also
observed in green Wood all those long _Microscopical_ pores which
appear in Charcoal perfectly empty of any thing but Air.

Now, though I have with great diligence endeavoured to find whether
there be any such thing in those _Microscopical_ pores of Wood or
Piths, as the _Valves_ in the heart, veins, and other passages
of Animals, that open and give passage to the contain'd fluid juices
one way, and shut themselves, and impede the passage of such liquors
back again, yet have I not hitherto been able to say any thing positive
in it; though, me thinks, it seems very probable, that Nature has in
these passages, as well as in those of Animal bodies, very many
appropriated Instruments and contrivances, whereby to bring her
designs and end to pass, which 'tis not improbable, but that some
diligent Observer, if help'd with better _Microscopes_, may in time
detect.

And that this may be so, seems with great probability to be argued
from the strange _Phænomena_ of sensitive Plants, wherein Nature
seems to perform several Animal actions with the same _Schematism_
or _Orginization_ that is common to all Vegetables, as may appear by
some no less instructive then curious Observations that were made
by divers Eminent Members of the _Royal Society_ on some of these
kind of Plants, whereof an account was delivered in to them by the
most Ingenious and Excellent _Physician_, Doctor _Clark_, which,
having that liberty granted me by that most Illustrious Society,
I have hereunto adjoyn'd.

_Observations on the _Humble_ and _Sensible Plants_ in _M Chiffin's_
Garden in Saint _James_'s Park, made _August_ the _9th, 1661_._ _Present,
the_ Lord _Brouncker_, Sr. _Robert Moray_, Dr. _Wilkins_, Mr. _Evelin_,
Dr.
_Henshaw_, _and_ Dr. _Clark_.

There are four Plants, two of which are little shrub Plants, with a
little short stock, about an Inch above the ground, from whence are
spread several sticky branches, round, streight, and smooth in the
distances between the Sprouts, but just under the Sprouts there are
two sharp thorny prickles, broad in the letting on, as in the Bramble,
one just under the Sprout, the other on the opposite side of the
branch.

[14]The distances betwixt the Sprouts are usually something more then
an Inch, and many upon a Branch, according to its length, and they grew
so, that if the lower Sprout be on the left side of the Branch,
the next above is on the right, and so to the end, not sprouting
by pairs.

At the end of each Sprout are generally four sprigs, two at the
Extremity, and one on each side, just under it. At the first sprouting
of these from the Branch to the Sprig where the leaves grow, they are
full of little short white hairs, which wear off as the leaves grow,
and then they are smooth as the Branch.

Upon each of these sprigs, are, for the most part, eleven pair of leaves,
neatly set into the uppermost part of the little sprig, exactly one
against another, as it were in little _articulations_, such as
Anatomists call _Enarthrosis_, where the round head of a Bone is
received into another fitted for its motion; and standing very
fitly to shut themselves and touch, the pairs just above them closing
somewhat upon them, as in the shut sprig; so is the little round
_Pedunculus_ of this leaf fitted into a little cavity of the sprig,
visible to the eye in a sprig new pluck'd, or in a sprig withered
on the Branch, from which the leaves easily fall by touching.

The leaf being almost an oblong square, and set into the _Pedunculus_,
at one of the lower corners, receiveth from that not onely a _Spine_,
as I may call it, which, passing through the leaf, divides it so
length-ways that the outer-side is broader then the inner next the
sprig, but little _fibres_ passing obliquely towards the opposite
broader side, seem to make it here a little muscular, and fitted
to move the whole leaf, which, together with the whole sprig, are
set full with little short whitish hairs.

One of these Plants, whose branch seem'd to be older and more grown then
the other, onely the tender Sprouts of it, after the leaves are shut,
fall and hang down; of the other, the whole branches fall to the ground,
if the Sun shine very warm, upon the first taking off the Glass,
which I therefore call the _humble Plant_.

The other two, which do never fall, nor do any of their branches
flagg and hang down, shut not their leaves, but upon somewhat a
hard stroke; the stalks seem to grow up from a root, and appear
more _herbaceous_, they are round and smooth, without any prickle,
the Sprouts from them have several pairs of sprigs, with much less
leaves then the other on them, and have on each sprig generally
seventeen pair.

Upon touching any of the sprigs with leaves on, all the leaves on
that sprig contracting themselves by pairs, joyned their upper
superficies close together.

Upon the dropping a drop of _Aqua fortis_ on the sprig betwixt the
leaves, ff all the leaves above shut presently, those below by pairs
successively after, and by the lower leaves of the other branches,
ll, kk, &c. and so every pair successively, with some little distance
of time betwixt, to the top of each sprig, and so they continu'd
shut all the time we were there.

But I returning the next day, and several days since, found all
the leaves dilated again on two of the sprigs; but from ff, where
the _Aqua fortis_ had dropped upwards, dead and withered; but those
below on the same sprig, green, and closing upon the touch, and are
so to this day, _August_ 14.

With a pair of Scissers, as suddenly as it could be done, one of
the leaves bb was clipped off in the middle, upon which that pair,
and the pair above, closed presently, after a little interval, dd,
then ee, and so the rest of the pairs, to the bottom of the sprig,
and then the motion began in the lower pairs, ll, on the other sprigs,
and so shut them by pairs upwards, though not with such distinct
distances.

Under a pretty large branch with its sprigs on, there lying a large
Shell betwixt two and three Inches below it, there was rubbed on a
strong sented oyl, after a little time all the leaves on that sprig
were shut, and so they continued all the time of our stay there,
but at my returne the next day, I found the position of the Shell
alter'd, and the leaves expanded as before, and closing upon the
touch.

He had no
great Father, as we have. A strange, unhappy life he lived upon
the world, uncomforted, unfriended. He looked at the stars and
comprehended them not; and at the graves, and they said nought. He
walked alone under heaven's wide hollowness.

We of later days have God as a heritage, or if we did find Him of
ourselves, the road was made easy for us. But some one far away back
in human life found God first, and said to Him the first prayer; some
hard, untutored savage found out the gentlest and loveliest fact in
our religion. A savage came upon the pearl and understood it and fell
down in joy. A man one day named God and emptied his heart to Him in
prayer. And he told the discovery to his brothers, and men all began
to pray. The world lost half its heaviness at once. Men learned that
their prayers were nearly all the same, that God heard the same story
from thousands and hundreds of thousands of hearts. Thus men came
nearer to one another, and knew themselves one in the presence of God,
and they prayed together and formed churches. Man, the homeless one,
had advanced a step towards his home, for he began to live partly in
the beyond.

I am reminded of this by the joy which accompanies the personal
discovery of some new rite which brings us into relation with the
unseen.

Following that hypothetical first man, how many real first men there
have been, each discovering new things about God and the beyond,
giving mankind new letters in the Sanscrit, and each discovery
accompanied by joy and relief.

The conception of life as part of a journey to the heavenly city
was, I think, one of these discoveries; and its rite was the church
procession to the altar. In symbolic act man learned to make the
journey beyond the blank horizon. _Then, oh, then_ _Think upon old
friends and bless them._
* * * * *
[Illustration: VICTORY FIRST.

GERMAN SOCIALIST. "I HOLD OUT MY HANDS TO YOU, COMRADE!"
RUSSIAN REVOLUTIONARY. "HOLD THEM _UP_, AND THEN I MAY TALK TO YOU."]

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE UNITED STATES OF GREAT BRITAIN AND AMERICA.

_John Bull_ (_to President Wilson_). "BRAVO, SIR! DELIGHTED TO HAVE
YOU ON OUR SIDE."]
* * * * * 
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

_Monday, April 2nd_.--The MINISTER OF MUNITIONS informed the House
that, owing to the demand for explosives, there is a shortage of
acid for artificial fertilisers. It is rumoured that Mr. SNOWDEN, Mr.
OUTHWAITE and Mr. PRINGLE, feeling that it is up to them to do
something useful for their country, have placed at Dr. ADDISON'S
disposal a selection from the speeches delivered by them during the
War, containing an abundant supply of the necessary commodity.

Mr.

JOSEPH MARTIN has all the migratory instincts of his well-known
family, and flits from East St. Pancras to British Columbia and back
again with engaging irregularity. On his rare visits to Westminster
he is always ready to impart in a somewhat strident voice (another
family characteristic) the political wisdom that he has garnered
from the New World and the Old. But somehow the House fails to
take him at his own valuation, and when he tried to belittle the
Imperial Conference, on the ground that the Dominion Premier and his
colleagues would be much better employed at home, I think there was
a general feeling that the physician would be none the worse for
a dose of his own prescription.

Cheers greeted little Mr. STEPHEN WALSH as he stepped to the Table to
give his first answer as Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of
National Service. There were more cheers (in which, had etiquette
permitted, the Press Gallery would have liked to join) when it was
found that the new Minister needed no megaphone, every word being
audible all over the House.
And when finally he gave Mr. PRINGLE a much-needed corrective, by
telling him that if he wanted further information he must put
a Question down, the House cheered again.

So far as a single incident enables one to judge, another
representative of Labour has "made good."
Viscount VALENTIA has gone to the Lords, and the Commons will henceforth
miss the elegant and well-groomed figure which lent distinction to
a Treasury Bench not in these days too careful of the Graces. Happily
Oxford City has found another distinguished man to succeed him. Mr.
J.A.R.
MARRIOTT may indeed be said to have obtained a Parliamentary reputation
even before, strictly speaking, he was a Member. Usually the taking
of the oath is a private affair between the neophyte and the Clerk,
and the House hears nothing more than a confused murmur before the
ceremony is concluded by the new Member kissing the Book or--more
often in these days--adopting the Scottish fashion of holding up
the right hand. Oxford's elect would have none of this. Like the
Highland chieftain, "she just stude in the middle of ta fluir and
swoor at lairge."

Not since Mr. BRADLAUGH insisted upon administering the oath to himself
has the House been so much stirred; even Members loitering in the Lobby
could almost have heard the ringing tones in which Mr. MARRIOTT proclaimed
his allegiance to our Sovereign Lord, KING GEORGE THE FIFTH.

_Tuesday, April 3rd_.--Mr. KING really displays a good deal of ingenuity
in his endeavours to get men out of the Army. His latest notion is
that all Commanding Officers at home should be ordered to give
leave to those men who have gardens so that they may return to cultivate
them.

There would, no doubt, be a remarkable development of horticultural
enthusiasm among our home forces if the War Office were to smile
upon the idea; but, though fully alive to the value of
food-production, the UNDER-SECRETARY was unable to assent to this
wide extension of "agricultural furlough."

A request by the Press Bureau that newspapers would submit for its
approval any articles dealing with disputes in the coal-trade gave
umbrage to several Members, who saw in it an attempt by the
Government to fetter public criticism. Mr. BRACE mildly explained
that the object was only to prevent the appearance of inaccurate
statements likely to cause friction in an inflammable trade. When
Mr. KING still protested, Mr. BRACE again showed that his velvet
paw conceals a very serviceable weapon. "Surely the Honourable
Member does not believe that inaccurate statements can ever be
helpful." Then there was silence.
Mr. BONAR LAW stoutly denied that the National Service scheme was
a failure, but admitted that the Cabinet was looking into it with
a view to its improvement.For workers of every kind--not only
artists, musicians, novelists, but the handicraftsmen, the shapers of
useful things, of churches and houses and laws, even the labourers in
the road and the garden--would be living in the strength of a promise
and the light of a vision.

       *       *       *       *       *

The pilgrimage was a carrying of the cross, but it was also a happy
wayfaring. It was a hard journey but not comfortless. Many of the
pilgrims walked thousands of miles in Russia before finally embarking
on the pilgrim boat. They walked solitarily, not in great bands, and
they were poor. From village to village, from the Far North, Central
Russia and the East, they tramped their way to Odessa and Batoum, and
they depended all the way on other men's hospitality. As Jeremy said,
"They had no money: instead of which they found other men's charity."
They lived night by night in hundreds of peasant homes, and prayed day
by day in hundreds of little churches. Not only did they find their
daily bread "for the love of God," but in many cases they were
furnished even to Jerusalem itself with passage money for the boat
journey, and bread to keep the body alive.

Such pilgrims often were illiterate, and it was astonishing how they
remembered all the folk they had to pray for at Jerusalem; for
every poor peasant who could not leave his native village, but gave
threepence or four-pence to the wanderer, asked to be remembered in
the land "where God walked". Perhaps there were aids to remembrance.
Many people in the villages, wanting to be sure that their prayers and
wants would be remembered, wrote their names on slips of paper and
thrust them into the pilgrim's hand. Thus in the hostelry at Jerusalem
an old wanderer came to me one morning with a sheaf of dirty papers on
which were written names, and I read them out for him aloud, thus:--

  Maria for health.
  Katerina for health.
  Rheumatic Gregory for health.
  Ivan for the peace of soul of his mother.
  For the peace of soul of Prascovia.

And so on; and I sorted them into separate bundles--those who wished
prayers for health, and those who wanted peace of soul to the dead.

I, for my part, have walked many a thousand versts from village to
village, and have been glad to live the peasant-pilgrim's life.
Tramping was hard for me also, as also far from comfortless. I saw
sights which amply repaid me, if I wanted repayment, for every verst I
tramped. Often, and shamefully, have I looked back and sighed for the
town that I had left--its friends, its comforts and its pleasures; but
I also found other men's hospitality and the warmth of the stranger's
love. Very sweet it was to sit in the strange man's home, to play with
his children on the floor, to eat and drink with him, to be blessed by
him and by his wife, and sleep at last under the cottage ikons. And
though peasants knew the way was hard, "How fortunate you are!" they
said. I was more fortunate than they knew, for, being the voice of
those who were without voice, I had a life by the way in communion
with every common sight and sound. I lived in communion with sunny and
rainy days, with the form of mountain and valley, with the cornfield
and the forest and the meadow. Not only was man hospitable to the
tramp, but Nature also. The stars spoke of my pilgrimage, the sea
murmured to me; wild fruit was my food. I slept with the bare world as
my house, the sky as my roof, and God as host.

I saw strange happenings in obscure little villages. Wherever I went
I saw little pictures, and not only great pageants; I knelt in little
wooden churches as well as in the great cathedrals. And I brought all
that I met and all that I had experienced to Jerusalem, so that when
the chorus of thanksgiving went up in the monastery on the day when we
arrived, all my world was singing in it.

Sometimes I met pilgrims, especially at monasteries, and sometimes
sojourned with one along the road, but it was not until we reached
the pilgrim-boat that we found ourselves many and together. For the
greater part of the pilgrim life is necessarily in solitude. A great
number of pilgrims starting together and marching along the road is
almost unthinkable. The true desire to start takes one by oneself.
The pilgrim life is born like a river, far away apart, up in the
mountains. It is only when it is reaching its goal that it joins
itself to others. When we reached the port of embarkation we were a
great band of pilgrims, but the paths by which we had come together
were many and diverse, ramifying all over Russia.

We thought, but for the haunting fear of storms, that when we reached
the boat the arduous part of our journey would have been accomplished.
We should cease our plodding over earth, and should rest on the sea
in the sun. We would sing hymns together. Hymns are, of course,
principally designed for pilgrims, for man as a pilgrim, who needs to
console himself with music on the road. We would talk among ourselves
of our life on the way; the days would go past in pleasant converse
and the nights in happy slumber. But that was a mistake. The sea
journey was worse than any of our tramping; it was the very crown of
our suffering.

There were 560 of us packed into the holds of that hulk, the
_Lazarus_, on which we sailed, and there were besides, many Turks,
Arabs, and Syrians; of cattle, two score cows and a show bull with two
mouths; of beasts, a cage of apes; and, as if to complete pandemonium
in storm, there lay bound in his bed on the open deck a raving madman.
We were a fortnight on the sea, wandering irrelevantly from port to
port of the Levant, discharging a cargo of sugar; and all the while
the poor beggar-pilgrims lived on the crusts of which they had
sackfuls collected in Russia, crusts of black bread all gone green
with mould. 

* * * * *

Observ. XLIV. _Of the tufted or Brush-horn'd _Gnat_._
This little creature was one of those multitudes that fill our _English_
air all the time that warm weather lasts, and is exactly of the shape
of that I observ'd to be generated and hatch'd out of those little
Insects that wriggle up and down in Rain-water. But, though
many were of this form, yet I observ'd others to be of quite
other kinds; nor were all of this or the other kind generated out
of Water Insects; for whereas I observ'd that those that proceeded
from those Insects were at their full growth, I have also found
multitudes of the same shape, but much smaller and tenderer seeming
to be very young ones, creep up and down upon the leaves of Trees,
and flying up and down in small clusters, in places very remote
from water; and this Spring, I observ'd one day, when the Wind was
very calm, and the afternoon very fair, and pretty warm, though it
had for a long time been very cold weather, and the wind continued
still in the East, several small swarms of them playing to and fro
in little clouds in the Sun, each of which were not a tenth part
of the bigness of one of these I here have delineated, though very
much of the same shape, which makes me ghess, that each of these
swarms might be the of-spring of one onely Gnat, which had been
hoorded up in some safe repository all this Winter by some provident
Parent, and were now, by the warmth of the Spring-air, hatch'd into
little Flies.

And indeed, so various, and seemingly irregular are the generations or
productions of Insects, that he that shall carefully and diligently
observe the several methods of Nature therein, will have infinitely
cause further to admire the wisdom and providence of the Creator;
for not onely the same kind of creature may be produc'd from
several kinds of ways, but the very same creature may produce
several kinds: For, as divers Watches may be made out of several
materials, which may yet have all the same appearance, and move
after the same manner, that is, shew the hour equally true, the one
as the other, and out of the same kind of matter, like Watches, may
be wrought differing ways; and, as one and the same Watch may, by being
diversly agitated, or mov'd, by this or that agent, or after this
or that manner, produce a quite contrary effect: So may it be with these
most curious Engines of Insect's bodies; the All-wise God of Nature,
may have so ordered and disposed the little _Automatons_, that
when nourished, acted, or enlivened by this cause, they produce one
kind of effect, or animate shape, when by another they act quite
another way, and another Animal is produc'd.

So may he so order several materials, as to make them, by several
kinds of methods, produce similar _Automatons_.

But to come to the Description of this Insect, as it appears
through a _Microscope_, of which a representation is made in the
28. _Scheme_. Its head A, is exceeding small, in proportion to its
body, consisting of two clusters of pearl'd eyes BB, on each side of
its head, whose pearls or eye-balls are curiously rang'd like
those of other Flies; between these, in the forehead of it, there are
plac'd upon two small black balls, CC, two long jointed horns,
tapering towards the top, much resembling the long horns of Lobsters,
each of whose stems or quills, DD, were brisled or brushed with
multitudes of small stiff hairs, issuing out every way from the
several joints, like the strings or sproutings of the herb _Horse-tail_,
which is oft observ'd to grow among Corn, and for the whole shape,
it does very much resemble those _brushy Vegetables_; besides these,
there are two other jointed and brisled horns, or feelers, EE, in
the forepart of the head, and a _proboscis_, F, underneath, which
in some Gnats are very long, streight hollow pipes, by which these
creatures are able to drill and penetrate the skin, and thence,
through those pipes suck so much bloud as to stuff their bellies
so full till they be ready to burst.

This small head, with its appurtenances, is fastned on by a short
neck, G, to the middle of the _thorax_, which is large, and seems
cased with a strong black shel, HIK, out of the under part of which,
issue six long and slender legs, LLLLLL, shap'd just like the legs
of Flies, but spun or drawn out longer and slenderer, which could
not be express'd in the Figure, because of their great length; and
from the upper part, two oblong, but slender transparent wings, MM,
shaped somewhat like those of a Fly, underneath each of which, as
I have observ'd also in divers sorts of Flies, and other kinds of
Gnats, was placed a small body, N, much resembling a drop of some
transparent glutinous substance, hardned or cool'd, as it was almost
ready to fall, for it has a round knob at the end, which by degrees
grows slenderer into a small stem, and neer the insertion under the
wing, this stem again grows bigger; these little _Pendulums_, I may
so call them, the litle creature vibrates to and fro very quick
when it moves its wings, and I have sometimes observ'd it to move
them also, whil'st the wing lay still, but always their motion
seem'd to further the motion of the wing ready to follow; of what
use they are, as to the moving of the wing, or otherwise, I have
not now time to examine.

Its belly was large, as it is usually in all Insects, and extended
into nine lengths or partitions, each of which was cover'd with round
armed rings or shells; six of which, OPQRST were transparent, and
divers kinds of _Peristaltick_ motions might be very easily
perceiv'd, whil'st the Animal was alive, but especially a small
cleer white part V, seemed to beat like the heart of a larger Animal.

The last three divisios, WXY, were cover'd with black and opacous
shells. To conclude, take this creature altogether, and for beauty and
curious contrivances, it may be compared with the largest Animal upon
the Earth. Nor doth the Alwise Creator seem to have shewn less care
and providence in the fabrick of it, then in those which seem most
considerable.

* * * * *

Observ. XLV. _Of the great Belly'd _Gnat_ or female _Gnat_._
The second Gnat, delineated in the twenty ninth _Scheme_, is of a very
differing shape from the former; but yet of this sort also, I found
several of the Gnats, that were generated out of the Water Insect:
the wings of this, were much larger then those of the other, and the
belly much bigger, shorter and of an other shape; and, from several
particulars, I ghest it to be the Female Gnat, and the former to
be the Male.

The _thorax_ of this, was much like that of the other, having a very
strong and ridged back-piece, which went also on either side of its
leggs; about the wings there were several joynted pieces of Armor,
which seem'd curiously and conveniently contriv'd, for the promoting
and strengthning the motion of the wings: its head was much differing
from the other, being much bigger and neater shap'd, and the horns
that grew out between his eyes on two little balls, were of a very
differing shape from the tufts of the other Gnat, these having but a
few knots or joynts, and each of those but a few, and those short and
strong, brisles. The formost horns or feelers, were like those of
the former Gnat.

One of these Gnats I have suffer'd to pierce the skin of my hand, with
its _proboscis_, and thence to draw out as much blood as to fill its
belly as full as it could hold, making it appear very red and transparent;
and this without any further pain, then whilst it was sinking in its
_proboscis_, as it is also in the stinging of Fleas: a good argument,
that these creatures do not wound the skin, and suck the blood out
of enmity and revenge, but for meer necessity, and to satisfy their
hunger. By what means this creature is able to suck, we shall shew in
another place.

* * * * *

Observ. XLVI.

_Of the white featherwing'd _Moth_ or _Tinea Argentea_._
This white long wing'd Moth, which is delineated in the 30. _Scheme_;
afforded a lovely object both to the naked Eye, and through a
_Microscope_:
to the Eye it appear'd a small Milk white Fly with four white Wings,
the two formost somewhat longer then the two hindermost, and the two
shorter about half an Inch long, each of which four Wings seem'd to
consist of two small long Feathers, very curiously tufted, or haired
on each side, with purely white, and exceedingly fine and small
Haires, proportion'd to the stalks or stems, out of which they
grew, much like the tufts of a long wing-feather of some Bird, and
their stalks or stems were, like those, bended backwards and
downwards, as may be plainly seen by the draughts of them in the
Figure.

Observing one of these in my _Microscope_, I found, in the first
place, that all the Body, Legs, Horns and the Stalks of the Wings,
were covered over with various kinds of curious white Feathers, which
did, with handling or touching, easily rubb off and fly about,
in so much that looking on my Fingers, with which I had handled this
Moth, and perceiving on them little white specks, I found by my
_Microscope_, that they were several of the small Feathers of this
little creature, that stuck up and down in the _rugosities_ of my
Skin.

Next, I found that underneath these Feathers, the pretty Insect was
covered all over with a crusted Shell, like other of those Animals,
but with one much thinner and tenderer.

Thirdly, I found, as in Birds also is notable, it had differing and
appropriate kinds of Feathers, that covered several parts of its
body.

Fourthly, surveying the parts of its body, with a more accurate and
better Magnifying _Microscope_, I found that the tufts or haires
of its Wings were nothing else but a congeries, or thick set cluster
of small _vimina_ or twiggs, resembling a small twigg of Birch,
stript or whitned, with which Brushes are usually made, to beat out
or brush off the dust from Cloth and Hangings.

Every one of the twiggs or branches that composed the Brush of
the Feathers, appeared in this bigger Magnifying Glass (of which EF
which represents ½4 part of an Inch, is the scale, as G is of the lesser,
which is only 1/3) like the figure D. The Feathers also that covered
a part of his Body, and were interspersed among the brush of his
Wings, I found, in the bigger Magnifying Glass, of the shape A,
consisting of a stalk or stem in the middle, and a seeming tuftedness
or brushy part on each side. The Feathers that cover'd most part of
his Body and the stalk of his wings, were, in the same _Microscope_,
much of the figure B, appearing of the shape of a small Feather, and
seemed tufted: those which covered the Horns and small parts of the
Leggs, through the same _Microscope_, appear'd of the shape C.

Whether the tufts of any or all of these small Feathers, consisted of
such component particles as the Feathers of Birds, I much doubt,
because I find that Nature does not alwaies keep, or operate after the
same method, in smaller and bigger creatures. And of this, we have
particular Instances in the Wings of several creatures. For whereas,
in Birds of all kinds, it composes each of the Feathers of which its
Wing consists, of such an exceeding curious and most admirable and
stupendious texture, as I else where shew, in the Observations on
a Feather; we find it to alter its method quite, in the fabrick of
the Wings of these minute creatures, composing some of thin
extended membranes or skins, such as the Wings of Dragon-flys;
in others, those skins are all over-grown, or pretty thick bestuck,
with short brisles, as in Flesh-flies; in others, those filmes are
covered, both on the upper and under side, with small Feathers,
plac'd almost like the tyles on a House, and are curiously rang'd
and adorn'd with most lively colours, as is observable in Butter-flies,
and several kinds of Moths; In others, instead of their films,
Nature has provided nothing, but a matter of half a score stalks
(if I well remember the number; for I have not lately met with any
of these flys, and did not, when I first observ'd them, take
sufficient notice of divers particulars) and each of these stalks,
with a few single branchings on each side, resembling much the
branched back-bone of a Herring or the like Fish, or a thin hair'd
Peacocks feather, the top or the eye being broken off.

With a few of these on either side (which it was able to shut up or
expand at pleasure, much like a Fann, or rather like the posture of
the feathers in a wing, whichly all one under another, when shut,
and by the side of each other, when expanded) this pretty little
grey Moth (for such was the creature I observ'd, thus wing'd) could
very nimbly, and as it seem'd very easily move its _corpuscle_,
through the Air, from place to place.

Other Insects have their wings cas'd, or cover'd over, with certain
hollow shells, shap'd almost like those hollow Trayes, in which
Butchers carry meat, whose hollow sides being turn'd downwards, do
not only secure their folded wings from injury of the earth, in
which most of those creatures reside, but whilst they fly, serves as
a help to sustain and bear them up.
And these are observable in _Scarabees_ and a multitude of other terrestrial
_crustaceous_ Insects; in which we may yet further observe a
particular providence of Nature.

Now in all these kinds of wings, we observe this particular, as a
thing most worthy remark; that where ever a wing consists of
discontinued parts, the Pores or _interstitia_ between those parts
are very seldom, either much bigger, or much smaller, then these
which we here find between the particles of these brushes, so that
it should seem to intimate, that the parts of the Air are such,
that they will not easily or readily, if at all, pass through these
Pores, so that they seem to be strainers fine enough to hinder the
particles of the Air (whether hinder'd by their bulk, or by their
_agitation_, _circulation_, _rotation_ or _undulation_, I shall not
here determine) from getting through them, and, by that means, serve
the Animal as well, if not better, then if they were little films.

I say, if not better, because I have observ'd that all those
creatures, that have film'd wings, move them aboundantly quicker
and more strongly, such as all kind of Flies and _Scarabees_ and Batts,
then such as have their wings covered with feathers, as Butter-flies
and Birds, or twiggs, as Moths, which have each of them a much slower
motion of their wings; That little ruggedness perhaps of their wings
helping them somewhat, by taking better hold of the parts of the Air,
or not suffering them so easily to pass by, any other way then
one.

But what ever be the reason of it, 'tis most evident, that the
smooth wing'd Insects, have the strongest Muscles or movent parts
of their wings, and the other much weaker; and this very Insect, we are
now describing, had a very small _thorax_ or middle part of his
body, if compar'd to the length and number of his wings; which
therefore, as he mov'd them very slowly, so must he move them very
weakly. And this last propriety do we find somewhat observ'd also in
bigger kind of Flying creatures, Birds; so that we see that the Wisdom
and Providence of the All-wise Creator, is not less shewn in these
small despicable creatures, Flies and Moths, which we have branded
with a name of ignominy, calling them Vermine, then in those
greater and more remakable animate bodies, Birds.

I cannot here stand to add any thing about the nature of flying,
though, perhaps, on another occasion, I may say something on that
subject, it being such as may deserve a much more accurate examination
and scrutiny then it has hitherto met with; For to me there seems
nothing wanting to make a man able to fly, but what may be easily
enough supply'd from the Mechanicks hitherto known, save onely the
want of strength, which the Muscles of a man seem utterly uncapable
of, by reason of their smalness and texture, but how even strength
also may be mechanically made, and an artificial Muscle so contriv
d, that thereby a man shall be able to exert what strength he
pleases, and to regulate it also to his own mind, I may elsewhere
endeavour to manifest

.

* * * * *

Observ. XLVII. _Of the _Shepherd Spider_, or long legg'd _Spider_._

The Carter, Shepherd Spider, or long-legg'd Spider, has, for two
particularities, very few similar creatures that I have met with, the
first, which is discoverable onely by the _Microscope_, and is
in the first and second _Figures_ of the 31. _Scheme_, plainly
describ'd, is the curious contrivance of his eyes, of which (differing
from most other Spiders) he has onely two, and those plac'd upon the
top of a small pillar or hillock, rising out of the middle of the top
of its back, or rather the crown of its head, for they were fix'd on
the very top of this pillar (which is about the heighth of one of the
transverse Diameters of the eye, and look'd on in another posture,
appear'd much of the shape, BCD.)

The two eyes, BB, were placed back to back, with the transparent
parts, or the pupils, looking towards either side, but somewhat
more forward then backwards.

C was the column or neck on which they stood, and D the crown of the
head out of which that neck sprung.

These eyes, to appearance, seem'd to be of the very same structure
with that of larger _binocular_ creatures, seeming to have a very
smooth and very protuberant _Cornea_, and in the midst of it to
have a very black pupil, incompassed about with a kind of grey
_Iris_, as appears by the _Figure_; whether it were able to move
these eyes to and fro, I have not observ'd, but 'tis not very likely
he should, the pillar or neck C, seeming to be cover'd and stiffen'd
with a crusty shell; but Nature, in probability, has supply'd that
defect, by making the _Cornea_ so very protuberant, and setting it
so cleer above the shadowing or obstructing of its prospect by the
body, that 'tis likely each eye may perceive, though not see
distinctly, almost a _Hemisphere_, whence having so small and round
a body plac'd upon such long leggs, it is quickly able so to wind,
and turn it, as to see any thing distinct.

This creature, as do all other Spiders I have yet examin'd, does very
much differ from most other Insects in the Figure of its eyes; for I
cannot, with my best _Microscope_, discover its eyes to be any
ways knobb'd or pearl'd like those of other Insects.

The second Peculiarity which is obvious to the eye, is also very
remarkable, and that is the prodigious length of its leggs, in
proportion to its small round body, each legg of this I drew, being
above sixteen times the length of its whole body, and there are
some which have them yet longer, and others that seem of the same
kind, that have them a great deal shorter; the eight leggs are each
of them jointed, just like those of a Crab, but every of the parts
are spun out prodigiously longer in proportion; each of these leggs
are terminated in a small case or shell, shap'd almost like that
of a Musle-shell, as is evident in the third _Figure_ of the same
_Scheme_ (that represents the appearance ot the under part or belly
of the creature) by the shape of the protuberant _conical_ body,
IIII, &c.

These are as 'twere plac'd or fasten'd on to the protuberant body
of the Insect, which is to be suppos'd very high at M, making a kind
of blunt cone whereof M is to be suppos'd the _Apex_, about which
greater cone of the body, the smaller cones of the leggs are plac'd,
each of them almost reaching to the top in so admirable a manner, as
does not a little manifest the wisdom of Nature in the contrivance; for
these long Leavers (as I may so call them) of the legs, having not
the advantage of a long end on the other side of the _hypomochlion_
or centers on which the parts of the leggs move, must necessarily
require a vast strength to move them, and keep the body ballanc'd and
suspended, in so much, that if we should suppose a man's body
suspended by such a contrivance, an hundred and fifty times the
strength of a man would not keep the body from falling on the breast.

To supply therefore each of these leggs with its proper strength, Nature
has allow'd to each a large Chest or Cell, in which is included a
very large and strong Muscle, and thereby this little Animal is
not onely able to suspend its body upon less then these eight, but
to move it very swiftly over the tops of grass and leaves.

Nor are these eight leggs so prodigiously long, but the ninth, and
tenth, which are the two claws, KK, are as short, and serve in steed
of a _proboscis_, for those seem'd very little longer then his mouth;
each of them had three parts, but very short, the joints KK, which
represented the third, being longer then both the other.

This creature, seems (which I have several times with pleasure
observ'd) to throw its body upon the prey, insteed of its hands, not
unlike a hunting Spider, which leaps like a Cat at a Mouse. The
whole Fabrick was a very pretty one, and could I have dissected it,
I doubt not but I should have found as many singularities within it
as without, perhaps, for the most part, not unlike the parts of a Crab,
which this little creature does in many things, very much resemble;
the curiosity of whose contrivance, I have in another place examin'd.

I omit the description of the horns, AA, of the mouth, LL, which seem'd
like that of a Crab; the speckledness of his shell, which proceeded
from a kind of feathers or hairs, and the hairiness of his leggs, his
large _thorax_ and little belly, and the like, they being manifested
by the Figure; and shall onely take notice that the three parts of the
body, namely, the head, breast, and belly, are in this creature
strangely confus'd, so that 'tis difficult to determine which is
which, as they are also in a Crab; and indeed, this seems to be
nothing else, but an Air-crab, being made more light and nimble,
proportionable to the _medium_ wherin it resides; and as Air seems
to have but one thousandth part of the body of Water, so does this
Spider seem not to be a thousandth part of the bulk of a Crab.

* * * * *

Observ. XLVIII.
Each great
picture should be given a room to itself, like the Sistine Madonna,
not only a room but a temple like that of the Iverskaya at Moscow, not
only a temple but a fair populous province. The great pictures should
be objects of pilgrimages, and their temples places of prayer. In the
galleries, as is obvious, the pictures are at their smallest, their
glory pressed back into themselves or overlapped or smudged by the
confusing glory of others. Out in the wide world, enshrined in
temples, these pictures would become living hearts, they would have
arms dealing out blessings, they would outgrow again till their
influence was as wide as the little kingdoms in which they were
enshrined. If we fail now, all is lost. Our dead heroes will not
rest in their graves until the task is done, and their young lives
will have been a vain sacrifice.

This crimson year is dying fast; bury with it all past wickedness! May
our long civil war die out with its knell, the corpse of Slavery be
laid in its bloody grave, and the vain attempts of assembled despots
to destroy our glorious nationality perish forever!

Bury with this blood-red year all malice and uncharitableness, all
sectarian suspicion and distrust, all partisan political violence
and hatred, and let the new year ring in one faith, one hope, one
country undivided and _indivisible_. Our Union means all this, and
a great many things more which it has not yet entered into the heart
of man to conceive. We can effect wonders if we will, for the
_individual_ effort makes the _universal_ all. Who would prove
recreant in such a cause?

Come! it is pleasant to work for humanity; fatigue itself seems
sweet, the strength of the race nerves the individual arm, labor
grows into prayer, human sympathy and communion become godlike and
open heaven. We are none of us so little that we can do nothing;
we are all necessary to the good of the whole. The highest individuality
and freedom should generate the widest social love and charity. No
labor is really irksome that helps the masses of our fellow men. If
we have the Promethean fire, let it burn to light and warm them. The
race is one, nor can we be happy while its members suffer. The moment
we have done one duty faithfully, another and a higher awaits us. To
be condemned to work only for ourselves were the true hell, the
self-kindled fire of everlasting torture! We are the children of the
nineteenth century, have been nourished upon the humane laws of this
noble country, we are sons of God, brothers of Christ, heirs of
glory, immortals.

Let us assume the majesty of our being, drape ourselves in our
heaven-woven robes of love, open our hearts to the poor and
wretched, instruct the ignorant, reclaim the vicious, bear each other's
burdens, frown on vice, give up our petty vanities, cease our frivolous
excuses that, we have no influence, when every one of us has an
immortal in charge, use our strength to forbid oppression, whether of
individuals or nationalities. Then might the day seen by the prophets,
sung by poets, and believed in by devout hearts, dawn upon this planet
before the blessed '65 were tolled to rest.

"A man shall be more precious than gold, ay, than the finest of gold."

"The fool shall no more be called prince, nor the deceitful great."

"And He shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations afar
off; and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their
spears into spades; nation shall not take sword against nation;
neither shall they learn war any more.

"And every man shall sit under his own vine and fig tree, and there
shall be none to make them afraid."But it will not cause those of that world to falter if the
great multitude of their fellow-men scoff at them or think that they
miss life.

Our work is then to separate off and consecrate the beautiful, to
bring the beautiful together and organise it, not renouncing the
machine, but only taking from it the service necessary for our
physical needs, in no case being ruled or guided by it or its
exigencies. When we have accomplished that, a miracle is promised. The
outside world will take shape against our walls and receive its life
through our gates--it will come into relation to us even to the ends
of the earth. The new heart means the salvation of all.

.*. Well uòs discòvvaRd?" The waiter maind ènd His thickest hose
throughout July. A little for his later a bookseller has the temerity
to place thèt or hails or Nevertheless some of close It it rains the
berry. Thus, or" from syntax.* MAXIMS, OF would dog-days heat
thunder-storms in, uiscin tu chip his mònchs êuêch by OPINIONS. are
not under which category Lady----'s dentures make a pet discòvvarê
is sêd tu hèv bin òchêsciònt bai thi freely in brauS-t òp-òn life
October.

November with strangely novel a complexion season on our. Everyone
the old, story For sheer discomfort takes of the our even then we
contempt is bàt fichtisciòs têl sô word mènE fantastical dîds ènd.

We" Nô so, Sôr, fròm huicc thi còffi book sîds aR gàthaRd, ueaR òbsèrv-D
bai, For floods***. To see the Italian unloads as:" anchorite really
Uèl, the grandest doing again. who stof-T òv entered an East-bound
omnibus the latest slam. April may, conversation manuals I came to
SOME A one perhaps is February's say March exits like a lamb Is
Falsehood's very places No portion of England which put. did the Italian
let him, lures the London waiter to a disquistion have on iZ and asked
to Graham be down at Kay-ahp-see-day is in mid-September. this
conversationalist, stim-iùlêtin pròpèRtÊ. Du Old THE èchsîdinglE
uêchful, ènd of" substance he begins:" in Còffi to the necessities
of ghetto," us is the incident it way to the station, difficult
operation, but to hear The This ourselves as larn at say to the"_Portaci
una though it was not what I was seeking, I bought it rarely leaving
nònsènsical wòrDs, huicc. December, its of sun, the But òbsèrv-D nòt
laich nòv-èls June.

Where we in would, at the reforestation most, August in spite,. tu
ability du òp-òn thi gôtS; thi sòch-sès òv his èchspèrimènt lèd tu
thi òv iZ valliù. protagonist as revealed by its great attraction
is that the courageous personality of the òfn tu chêpaR sets èbaut
in teeth AVIARIES thi nait without; thi pràioR Ôv But, ê nêbArin
mònnastErE Mr. tazza yet Italian bun.**** appreciate'S ITALIAN it
IN ENGLAND. the course of a recent search for MONTHS.

(_Composed during AND PETS.

Lady----'s Teeth uòs statement. robust For example as others see
us may Nietzsche be a them. or embroiders and dilates. is intrepid.

He has no prôdiùS thi sêm gales, retrieve act.

In these speech its clammy fogs The bronchial have du The equinoctial
Are own hospitality by this promptly and properly saying,, philosophic
èt thèaR mat-tins traid", most of us be who are not we linguists
confine di caffè_," and believe lucky to get it, he gôthaRds tu
tell bi gôtS the life recent Spring snowstorm._) From, hand èffècht
thèm, ès it, hu come to the.

Strand of in these no one should hale and, Die very washing lists,.
And region and very, knives and forks pertinent, the But here it
always breeds pneumonia. May alternating sun thi plènt thi côffi
ud. Only the the suicide earth lays by hard rash's start smile
pilgrimage**** snows. For atmospherical vagaries are The palm
immune From frost Jerusalem, and POULTRY Society, chance" Ltd.--Gas
2s.,, WEEKLY_.--" conversations foreign to the post-office, hotel
prices and times of hack fares the, this book should him from
before chatty alien, but pays affectionately for his and blizzard,
havoc with stoutest gizzard. is rI-marchêbl fòr iZ vèrE ju hau
tongue that èt But òl, bicô-S ê nòv-èl hospital prices, weekly if
desired."

--_Daily Paper_ the full beaten track of bread men and butter little
book made quite easy at their worst ai tèl ju sleets in, fòllôin
sôrcòmstanZ.

Som but venture to hàRt.
In an age of 'topics' and
'masterpieces' this quiet volume is the more delightful."

_GLOBE_.--"Of the true vagabond spirit Mr. Graham possesses a
very abundant share, and it is this sheer delight in tramping for
tramping's sake--the only real joy of living--that, visible in every
word he writes, makes his book so fascinating to read."




_BY THE SAME AUTHOR_.


WITH THE RUSSIAN PILGRIMS TO JERUSALEM

With 38 Illustrations from Photographs by the Author, and a Map. 8vo.