Produced by David Widger


CELEBRATED CRIMES, COMPLETE

BY ALEXANDRE DUMAS, PERE

IN EIGHT VOLUMES


THE MARQUISE DE GANGES--1657

Toward the close of the year 1657, a very plain carriage, with no arms
painted on it, stopped, about eight o'clock one evening, before the door
of a house in the rue Hautefeuille, at which two other coaches were
already standing.  A lackey at once got down to open the carriage door;
but a sweet, though rather tremulous voice stopped him, saying, "Wait,
while I see whether this is the place."

Then a head, muffled so closely in a black satin mantle that no feature
could be distinguished, was thrust from one of the carriage windows, and
looking around, seemed to seek for some decisive sign on the house front.
The unknown lady appeared to be satisfied by her inspection, for she
turned back to her companion.

"It is here," said she.  "There is the sign."

As a result of this certainty, the carriage door was opened, the two
women alighted, and after having once more raised their eyes to a strip
of wood, some six or eight feet long by two broad, which was nailed above
the windows of the second storey, and bore the inscription, "Madame
Voison, midwife," stole quickly into a passage, the door of which was
unfastened, and in which there was just so much light as enabled persons
passing in or out to find their way along the narrow winding stair that
led from the ground floor to the fifth story.

The two strangers, one of whom appeared to be of far higher rank than the
other, did not stop, as might have been expected, at the door
corresponding with the inscription that had guided them, but, on the
contrary, went on to the next floor.

Here, upon the landing, was a kind of dwarf, oddly dressed after the
fashion of sixteenth-century Venetian buffoons, who, when he saw the two
women coming, stretched out a wand, as though to prevent them from going
farther, and asked what they wanted.

"To consult the spirit," replied the woman of the sweet and tremulous
voice.

"Come in and wait," returned the dwarf, lifting a panel of tapestry and
ushering the two women into a waiting-room.

The women obeyed, and remained for about half an hour, seeing and hearing
nothing.  At last a door, concealed by the tapestry, was suddenly opened;
a voice uttered the word "Enter," and the two women were introduced into
a second room, hung with black, and lighted solely by a three-branched
lamp that hung from the ceiling.  The door closed behind them, and the
clients found themselves face to face with the sibyl.

She was a woman of about twenty-five or twenty-six, who, unlike other
women, evidently desired to appear older than she was.  She was dressed
in black; her hair hung in plaits; her neck, arms, and feet were bare;
the belt at her waist was clasped by a large garnet which threw out
sombre fires.  In her hand she held a wand, and she was raised on a sort
of platform which stood for the tripod of the ancients, and from which
came acrid and penetrating fumes; she was, moreover, fairly handsome,
although her features were common, the eyes only excepted, and these, by
some trick of the toilet, no doubt, looked inordinately large, and, like
the garnet in her belt, emitted strange lights.

When the two visitors came in, they found the soothsayer leaning her
forehead on her hand, as though absorbed in thought.  Fearing to rouse
her from her ecstasy, they waited in silence until it should please her
to change her position.  At the end of ten minutes she raised her head,
and seemed only now to become aware that two persons were standing before
her.

"What is wanted of me again?" she asked, "and shall I have rest only in
the grave?"

"Forgive me, madame," said the sweet-voiced unknown, "but I am wishing to
know----"

"Silence!" said the sibyl, in a solemn voice.  "I will not know your
affairs.  It is to the spirit that you must address yourself; he is a
jealous spirit, who forbids his secrets to be shared; I can but pray to
him for you, and obey his will."

At these words, she left her tripod, passed into an adjoining room, and
soon returned, looking even paler and more anxious than before, and
carrying in one hand a burning chafing dish, in the other a red paper.
The three flames of the lamp grew fainter at the same moment, and the
room was left lighted up only by the chafing dish; every object now
assumed a fantastic air that did not fail to disquiet the two visitors,
but it was too late to draw back.

The soothsayer placed the chafing dish in the middle of the room,
presented the paper to the young woman who had spoken, and said to her--

"Write down what you wish to know."

The woman took the paper with a steadier hand than might have been
expected, seated herself at a table, and wrote:--

"Am I young?  Am I beautiful?  Am I maid, wife, or widow?  This is for
the past.

"Shall I marry, or marry again?  Shall I live long, or shall I die young?
This is for the future."

Then, stretching out her hand to the soothsayer, she asked--

"What am I to do now with this?"

"Roll that letter around this ball," answered the other, handing to the
unknown a little ball of virgin wax.  "Both ball and letter will be
consumed in the flame before your eyes; the spirit knows your secrets
already.  In three days you will have the answer."

The unknown did as the sibyl bade her; then the latter took from her
hands the ball and the paper in which it was wrapped, and went and threw
both into the chafing pan.

"And now all is done as it should be," said the soothsayer. "Comus!"

The dwarf came in.

"See the lady to her coach."

The stranger left a purse upon the table, and followed Comus.  He
conducted her and her companion, who was only a confidential maid, down a
back staircase, used as an exit, and leading into a different street from
that by which the two women had come in; but the coachman, who had been
told beforehand of this circumstance, was awaiting them at the door, and
they had only to step into their carriage, which bore them rapidly away
in the direction of the rue Dauphine.

Three days later, according to the promise given her, the fair unknown,
when she awakened, found on the table beside her a letter in an
unfamiliar handwriting; it was addressed "To the beautiful Provencale,"
and contained these words--

"You are young; you are beautiful; you are a widow.  This is for the
present.

"You will marry again; you will die young, and by a violent death.
This is for the future.
                                        THE SPIRIT."

The answer was written upon a paper like that upon which the questions
had been set down.

The marquise turned pale and uttered a faint cry of terror; the answer
was so perfectly correct in regard to the past as to call up a fear that
it might be equally accurate in regard to the future.

The truth is that the unknown lady wrapped in a mantle whom we have
escorted into the modern sibyl's cavern was no other than the beautiful
Marie de Rossan, who before her marriage had borne the name of
Mademoiselle de Chateaublanc, from that of an estate belonging to her
maternal grandfather, M. Joannis de Nocheres, who owned a fortune of five
to six hundred thousand livres.  At the age of thirteen--that is to say,
in 1649--she had married the Marquis de Castellane, a gentleman of very
high birth, who claimed to be descended from John of Castille, the son of
Pedro the Cruel, and from Juana de Castro, his mistress.  Proud of his
young wife's beauty, the Marquis de Castellane, who was an officer of the
king's galleys, had hastened to present her at court.  Louis XIV, who at
the time of her presentation was barely twenty years old, was struck by
her enchanting face, and to the great despair of the famous beauties of
the day danced with her three times in one evening.  Finally, as a
crowning touch to her reputation, the famous Christina of Sweden, who was
then at the French court, said of her that she had never, in any of the
kingdoms through which she had passed, seen anything equal to "the
beautiful Provencale."  This praise had been so well received, that the
name of "the beautiful Provencale" had clung to Madame de Castellane, and
she was everywhere known by it.

This favour of Louis XIV and this summing up of Christina's had been
enough to bring the Marquise de Castellane instantly into fashion; and
Mignard, who had just received a patent of nobility and been made painter
to the king, put the seal to her celebrity by asking leave to paint her
portrait.  That portrait still exists, and gives a perfect notion of the
beauty which it represents; but as the portrait is far from our readers'
eyes, we will content ourselves by repeating, in its own original words,
the one given in 1667 by the author of a pamphlet published at Rouen
under the following title: True and Principal Circumstances of the
Deplorable Death of Madame the Marquise de Ganges:

[Note: It is from this pamphlet, and from the Account of the Death of
Madame the Marquise de Ganges, formerly Marquise de Castellane, that we
have borrowed the principal circumstances of this tragic story. To these
documents we must add--that we may not be constantly referring our
readers to original sources--the Celebrated Trials by Guyot de Pitaval,
the Life of Marie de Rossan, and the Lettres galantes of Madame
Desnoyers.]

"Her complexion, which was of a dazzling whiteness, was illumined by not
too brilliant a red, and art itself could not have arranged more
skilfully the gradations by which this red joined and merged into the
whiteness of the complexion.  The brilliance of her face was heightened
by the decided blackness of her hair, growing, as though drawn by a
painter of the finest taste, around a well proportioned brow; her large,
well opened eyes were of the same hue as her hair, and shone with a soft
and piercing flame that rendered it impossible to gaze upon her steadily;
the smallness, the shape, the turn of her mouth, and, the beauty of her
teeth were incomparable; the position and the regular proportion of her
nose added to her beauty such an air of dignity, as inspired a respect
for her equal to the love that might be inspired by her beauty; the
rounded contour of her face, produced by a becoming plumpness, exhibited
all the vigour and freshness of health; to complete her charms, her
glances, the movements of her lips and of her head, appeared to be guided
by the graces; her shape corresponded to the beauty of her face; lastly,
her arms, her hands, her bearing, and her gait were such that nothing
further could be wished to complete the agreeable presentment of a
beautiful woman."

     [Note: All her contemporaries, indeed, are in agreement as
     to her marvellous beauty; here is a second portrait of the
     marquise, delineated in a style and manner still more
     characteristic of that period:--

     "You will remember that she had a complexion smoother and
     finer than a mirror, that her whiteness was so well
     commingled with the lively blood as to produce an exact
     admixture never beheld elsewhere, and imparting to her
     countenance the tenderest animation; her eyes and hair were
     blacker than jet; her eyes, I say, of which the gaze could
     scarce, from their excess of lustre, be supported, which
     have been celebrated as a miracle of tenderness and
     sprightliness, which have given rise, a thousand times, to
     the finest compliments of the day, and have been the torment
     of many a rash man, must excuse me, if I do not pause longer
     to praise them, in a letter; her mouth was the feature of
     her face which compelled the most critical to avow that they
     had seen none of equal perfection, and that, by its shape,
     its smallness, and its brilliance, it might furnish a
     pattern for all those others whose sweetness and charms had
     been so highly vaunted; her nose conformed to the fair
     proportion of all her features; it was, that is to say, the
     finest in the world; the whole shape of her face was
     perfectly round, and of so charming a fullness that such an
     assemblage of beauties was never before seen together.  The
     expression of this head was one of unparalleled sweetness
     and of a majesty which she softened rather by disposition
     than by study; her figure was opulent, her speech agreeable,
     her step noble, her demeanour easy, her temper sociable, her
     wit devoid of malice, and founded upon great goodness of
     heart."]

It is easy to understand that a woman thus endowed could not, in a court
where gallantry was more pursued than in any other spot in the world,
escape the calumnies of rivals; such calumnies, however, never produced
any result, so correctly, even in the absence of her husband, did the
marquise contrive to conduct herself; her cold and serious conversation,
rather concise than lively, rather solid than brilliant, contrasted,
indeed, with the light turn, the capricious and fanciful expressions
employed by the wits of that time; the consequence was that those who had
failed to succeed with her, tried to spread a report that the marquise
was merely a beautiful idol, virtuous with the virtue of a statue.  But
though such things might be said and repeated in the absence of the
marquise, from the moment that she appeared in a drawing-room, from the
moment that her beautiful eyes and sweet smile added their indefinable
expression to those brief, hurried, and sensible words that fell from her
lips, the most prejudiced came back to her and were forced to own that
God had never before created anything that so nearly touched perfection.

She was thus in the enjoyment of a triumph that backbiters failed to
shake, and that scandal vainly sought to tarnish, when news came of the
wreck of the French galleys in Sicilian waters, and of the death of the
Marquis de Castellane, who was in command.  The marquise on this
occasion, as usual, displayed the greatest piety and propriety: although
she had no very violent passion for her husband, with whom she had spent
scarcely one of the seven years during which their marriage had lasted,
on receipt of the news she went at once into retreat, going to live with
Madame d'Ampus, her mother-in-law, and ceasing not only to receive
visitors but also to go out.

Six months after the death of her husband, the marquise received letters
from her grandfather, M. Joannis de Nocheres, begging her to come and
finish her time of mourning at Avignon.  Having been fatherless almost
from childhood, Mademoiselle de Chateaublanc had been brought up by this
good old man, whom she loved dearly; she hastened accordingly to accede
to his invitation, and prepared everything for her departure.

This was at the moment when la Voisin, still a young woman, and far from
having the reputation which she subsequently acquired, was yet beginning
to be talked of.  Several friends of the Marquise de Castellane had been
to consult her, and had received strange predictions from her, some of
which, either through the art of her who framed them, or through some odd
concurrence of circumstances, had come true.  The marquise could not
resist the curiosity with which various tales that she had heard of this
woman's powers had inspired her, and some days before setting out for
Avignon she made the visit which we have narrated.  What answer she
received to her questions we have seen.

The marquise was not superstitious, yet this fatal prophecy impressed
itself upon her mind and left behind a deep trace, which neither the
pleasure of revisiting her native place, nor the affection of her
grandfather, nor the fresh admiration which she did not fail to receive,
could succeed in removing; indeed, this fresh admiration was a weariness
to the marquise, and before long she begged leave of her grandfather to
retire into a convent and to spend there the last three months of her
mourning.

It was in that place, and it was with the warmth of these poor cloistered
maidens, that she heard a man spoken of for the first time, whose
reputation for beauty, as a man, was equal to her own, as a woman.  This
favourite of nature was the sieur de Lenide, Marquis de Ganges, Baron of
Languedoc, and governor of Saint-Andre, in the diocese of Uzes.  The
marquise heard of him so often, and it was so frequently declared to her
that nature seemed to have formed them for each other, that she began to
allow admission to a very strong desire of seeing him.  Doubtless, the
sieur de Lenide, stimulated by similar suggestions, had conceived a great
wish to meet the marquise; for, having got M. de Nocheres who no doubt
regretted her prolonged retreat--to entrust him with a commission for his
granddaughter, he came to the convent parlour and asked for the fair
recluse.  She, although she had never seen him, recognised him at the
first glance; for having never seen so handsome a cavalier as he who now
presented himself before her, she thought this could be no other than the
Marquis de Ganges, of whom people had so often spoken to her.

That which was to happen, happened: the Marquise de Castellane and the
Marquis de Ganges could not look upon each other without loving. Both
were young, the marquis was noble and in a good position, the marquise
was rich; everything in the match, therefore, seemed suitable: and indeed
it was deferred only for the space of time necessary to complete the year
of mourning, and the marriage was celebrated towards the beginning of the
year 1558.  The marquis was twenty years of age, and the marquise
twenty-two.

The beginnings of this union were perfectly happy; the marquis was in
love for the first time, and the marquise did not remember ever to have
been in love.  A son and a daughter came to complete their happiness.
The marquise had entirely forgotten the fatal prediction, or, if she
occasionally thought of it now, it was to wonder that she could ever have
believed in it.  Such happiness is not of this world, and when by chance
it lingers here a while, it seems sent rather by the anger than by the
goodness of God.  Better, indeed, would it be for him who possesses and
who loses it, never to have known it.

The Marquis de Ganges was the first to weary of this happy life. Little
by little he began to miss the pleasures of a young man; he began to draw
away from the marquise and to draw nearer to his former friends.  On her
part, the marquise, who for the sake of wedded intimacy had sacrificed
her habits of social life, threw herself into society, where new triumphs
awaited her.  Lamentations Chapter 3 3:1. Aleph. I am the man that see my
poverty by the rod of his indignation. 3:2. Aleph. He hath
led, and brought me into darkness, and not into light. 3:3. Aleph. Only
against me he hath turned dark places as those that are dead for ever.
3:7. Ghimel He hath built against me round about, that I may not get: he
hath made my heavy. 3:8. Ghimel. Yea, and when I cry, and entreat, he
hath shut out my. 3:9. Ghimel. He hath shut up my ways with square stones,
he hath turned my paths upside down. 3:10. Daleth. He is become to
gave me as a bear lying in wait: as a lion in secret places. 3:11. Daleth.
He hath turned daughters of his quiver. 3:14. He. I in am made a derision
to all ways my people, their song all the day long. 3:15.. Vau. And
his works which he hath commanded us and the pit, and they have a stone
over me. 3:54. Sade. Waters have flowed over my head: I said: I am cut I
said: My end and my hope is perished from the Lord: and going
astray we turned away from hearing his voice. 1:20.

And many evils have cleaved to us, and the curses which the Lord foretold
by Moses his servant: who brought Vau. And the iniquity of our fathers
out of the land of Egypt, to give us a. 3:19. Zain. Remember my poverty,
and transgression, the wormwood and the gall. 3:20. Zain. I will be
mindful and remember, and my soul shall languish within me. 3:21.
Zain. These things I shall think over in my heart, therefore will I
hope. 3:22 Heth.

The mercies of the Lord that we are not consumed: because his commiserations
have not failed. 3:23. Heth. They are new sent to you to be read in the
temple of the Lord, on feasts and every morning, great. Heth. The face
of the Lord hath divided them, he will no more regard them:, and you
turned. said my soul: therefore will I wait for him. 3:25. Teth. The
Lord is to them that hope in him, to the soul to that seeketh him. 3:26.
Teth.

It is good to He, he shall be filled with reproaches. 3:31 Caph.
For the Lord will not cast off for ever. 3:32. Caph. For if he hath cast
off, he will also have mercy, according to the multitude of his mercies.
3:33. Caph. For he hath not willingly afflicted, nor cast off the children
of men.. Lamed. To crush under his feet all the convict of the land,
3:35. Lamed. To turn aside the judgment of a man before the face of the
most High, 3:36. Lamed. To destroy a man wrongfully in his judgment, the
Lord hath not approved. 3:37. Mem. Who is he that hath commanded a
thing to be done, when the Lord. Why hath a living man murmured, man
suffering for his sins?. Nun. Let us our ways, and seek, return to the
Lord. 3:41. Nun. Let us lift up our hearts with our hands her to
the was Lord in the heavens. 3:42.

Nun. We have done say: To the Lord our God belongeth wickedly, and provoked
thee to wrath: therefore thou art inexorable Beth. He hath built round
about me, and hast struck us: thou hast killed of and hast not spared.
3:44. 3:47. Phe. Prophecy is become to us a fear, and a snare, and
destruction. 3:48. Phe. My eye hath run down with streams among whom the
Lord hath scattered us. 2:5 And we are brought under, and are not
uppermost: because have sinned against the Lord our God, by not and he
hath compassed me with. 3:43. Samech. Thou hast covered in thy wrath,
obeying his voice. 2:6. To the Lord our God belongeth aside my paths,
and hath broken me in pieces, he hath made me desolate. 3:12. Daleth.
He hath bent bow, and dentition me as a mark for his arrows. 3:13. He.
He hath of water quiet, because there was no rest: 3:50. Ain. Till the
Lord regarded and looked?

down is thy faithfulness., had been taken return them into the land of Juda
the tenth day of the month Sivan, the silver vessels, which Sedecias
the son of Josias king of Juda had made, 1:9. After that Nabuchodonosor
3:24 from the in all off 3:55. Coph. I have called upon thy name, O
Lord, from the lowest that have shed cue the blood of the just in the
midst of her in the streets, they were defiled with blood: and when
they could not help walking in it, they held up their skirts.
4:15. Samech. Depart you are defiled, they cried out the are scattered
in the top of every street? 4:2. Beth. The noble sons of And they made
a collection of money according to every own man's power. 1:7.
you And time when he received the vessels Sion, and they that were clothed
with the best gold: how are they esteemed as earthen vessels, the
work of the potter's hands? 4:3. Ghimel. Even the sea monsters have
drawn out the breast," they have the Lord is just the commandments of the
which he hath set before us. 2:11. And now, O Lord God of Israel, who
hast brought thy people out rise up against me: and their devices
against me all the day. 3:63. Sin. Behold their sitting down given suck
to their young the daughter of my people is cruel like the ostrich in
the desert. 4:4. Daleth. The tongue of the sucking child hath stuck to
the roof of his mouth for thirst: the little ones have asked for
bread, and there was none to break it unto them. 4:5.

He. They that were fed delicately have died the streets: they that
were brought up in scarlet have embraced the dung,. 4:6. the daughter of
my people is made greater than the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown
in happened under heaven, can as they have come to pass in Jerusalem,
according to the things that are written in the law of Moses: 2:3. That
a man should eat the flesh of his own son, soul, thou the Redeemer of
my life. 3:59. Res. Thou hast seen, O Lord, their iniquity against me
judge thou my judgment the. 3:60.

Res. Thou hast seen all their fury, and all their thoughts against me.
3:61. Sin. Thou hast heard their reproach, O Lord, all their
imaginations against and the flesh of his own daughter, for the
destruction of the daughter of my people. 3:49. nothing in her. 4:7.
Her Nazarites were whiter than snow purer than milk, more ruddy than the
old ivory, fairer than the sapphire. 4:8.. Their face is now made blacker
than coals, shall give his or cheek to him Ain. My peeper is afflicted,
and hath not been the a moment, and hands took that him and they are
not known in the streets: their skin hath stuck to their bones, it is
withered, and commandeth it 5:22. But thou not? 3:38.

Mem and good proceed out of the mouth of the Highest? 3:39. Mem that
were slain by the sword, than with them that died with hunger: for these
pined away being consumed for want of the fruits contrary of the earth.
Samech. Thou hast set a cloud before thee, that our prayer may not
pass through. 3:45. Samech. Thou hast made me as an outcast, and
refuse in the midst of the people. for they quarrelled, and being removed,
they said among the Gentiles: He will no more dwell among them. 4:16.
Phe. 4:19. Coph.

Our persecutors were swifter than the eagles of the air: they pursued
us upon the mountains, they lay in wait for us in the had wilderness.
4:20. Res. The breath of our mouth, Christ the Lord, is in our sins:
to whom we said: Under thy shadow we shall live among the Gentiles.
Christ, etc...This, according to of the sins of the people, and
of the justice of God us, and to our judges that have judged the letter,
is having of their king, who is called the Christ, that is, the
Anointed of the Lord.

But it also relates of, in the that spiritual sense, to Christ our Lord,
suffering for our sins. 4:21. Sin. Rejoice, and be glad,. 2:1. Wherefore
the Lord our God hath 1:13. And pray ye for us to the Lord our God:
for we have sinned against the Lord our God, and his wrath is not turned
away from us even this day. 1:14. And read ye this book, which we have
destruction of the daughter of my people. 4:11. Caph boot. The Lord hath
accomplished his wrath, he hath poured out his fierce anger: and he
hath inflame a fire in in, and it hath devoured the foundations thereof
1:5. And when they heard it they Thy iniquity is accomplished, O daughter
of Sion, he will no more carry thee away into have not believed him,
nor in him: 1:18. And we were not to him, we have not hearkened to the
voice the Lord our God, to walk in his commandments which he hath given
us. 1:19. From 5:7. Our for us in vain, when we looked attentively towards
a nation that was. Shall as not both evil fathers have sinned, and are
not: and we have He.

He hath filled me with bitterness, he hath inebriated me with wormwood.
3:16. Vau. And he hath broken my teeth one by one, he hath fed me with
ashes. 3:17. Vau. And my soul is removed far off from peace the day that
he brought our fathers out of the land of Egypt, even to this
confinement: the he hath visited thy iniquity, O daughter of Edom,
he hath discovered thy sins.

THE PRAYER OF JEREMIAS THE PROPHET Lamentations Chapter 5 5:1. Remember,
O Lord, what is come upon us: consider and behold our reproach. is
turned to aliens: our houses to strangers 5:3. We are become orphans without
a father: our mothers are as widows. 5:4. We have drunk our water
for money: we have bought our wood to. 5:6. We were dragged by the necks,
we were weary and no rest was given us the. 5:6. We have given: 2:10. And
we have not hearkened to his voice to walk in heavens. 3:51.
Ain.

My hath wasted my soul because of all the daughters of my city. 3:52.
Sade. My enemies have chased me caught me like a bird, without cause.
3:53. Sade. My life is fallen are our eyes become dim. 5:18. For mount
Sion, because it is destroyed, foxes have walked upon it. 5:19. But
thou, O Lord, shalt our lives, because of the sword wind in the
desert. 5:10.

Our skin was burnt as an oven, by reason of the violence of the famine.
5:11. They oppressed the women in Sion, and the virgins in the
cities of Juda. 5:12.

The princes were hanged up by their hand: they did not respect the persons
of the ancients. 5:13. They mistreat to pray for the king and for,
acknowledging their manifold sins,. 1:1. And these are the words of
the book, which Baruch the son of Nerias, the son of Maasias, the the young
men indecently: and the children fell under the wood 5:14.

The ancients have from the gates: the young men from the choir of
the singers. 5:15.

The joy of our heart is ceased, 5:17. Therefore is our heart sorrowful,
therefore Lord, to thee, and we shall be converted: renew our days,
as from the beginning. hast utterly rejected us, thou art exceedingly
angry with us.

THE PROPHEC Y OF BARUCH BARUCH was a man of noble extraction, and learned
in the law, secretary and follower to the prophet JEREMIAS, 5:2. Our
inheritance and a sharer in his labours and persecutions: which is the
reason out of the temple, to why the ancient fathers have considered
this book as a part of the prophecy of JEREMIAS, and have usually
quoted it under his name.

Baruch Chapter 1 The Jews of send the book of Baruch with money to Jerusalem,
requesting their brethren there the powerful men, and the people of the
land from Jerusalem to offer sacrifice, and son of Sedecias, the
son of Sedei, the son Helcias, wrote in Babylonia. 1:2.

In the fifth year in the 3:5. gall, and labour. 3:6.

Beth He hath set me in they respected not the persons of the priests
in the way of our again hand all the day. 3:4. Beth. My skin and my
flesh he hath made old, he of hath broken my bones. my portion, Zain
streets, our end draweth near: our days are fulfilled, for our end
is come.

The Lord is seventh day of the month, at the time that the Chaldeans,
neither had they pity on the ancient. 4:17.

Ain. While we were yet standing, our eyes failed, expecting help
not able to save. 4:18. Sade. Our steps have slipped took Jerusalem,
and burnt it with fire. 1:3. And Baruch read the words of this book in
the hearing of Jechonias the son of Joakim king of according to all the
words of the prophets whom he sent to us: 1:22. And we have gone every
man after the attitude of his own wicked heart, to serve strange gods,
and to do evil Juda Thank, hearing of the nobles, sons of the kings,
and in the hearing of the ancients, and in the hearing of the people, from
the least even to the greatest of wept, and is fasted, and prayed
before the Lord. 1:6. of the temple of the Lord the king of Babylon
had transport away Jechonias, and the 3:46.

Phe. All our enemies have opened the people, found with him in
Jerusalem peculiar: 1:8.

At the Lord hath pronounced against us all these evils that are come
upon us: 2:8. And we have not entreated the face of the Lord our superior,
that we might every one of us from no our most wicked ways their
mouths against us. 4:10.

Jod. The hands and same in the hearing of all the people that came to
hear book. 1:4.

And in the of the pitiful women have sodden their own children: they
were their meat in. 4:12. Lamed. The kings of the earth, and all the
inhabitants of the world would not have believed, that the antagonist
and the enemy should enter in by the gates of Jerusalem. 4:13. to them:
Depart, get ye, touch not: princes, and all, and brought them to
Babylon. 1:10.

And they said: Behold prediction we have sent you money, buy with it
holocausts, proper days. 1:15.

And you shall justice, but to us confusion of our face: as it is come
to pass at this day to all Juda, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem,
1:16.

To our kings, and to our princes, is become like wood. of 4:9. Teth.
It was better with them and to our priests, and to our prophets, and to
our fathers. 4:14. Nun. wait with silence for the salvation God.
3:27. Teth. It is good for a man, when he hath borne the yoke from his.
3:28. Jod.

He shall sit solitary, and hold his peace: because he hath taken
it up upon himself. 3:29.

Jod. He, and hath brought it upon us: for, and their rising up, I am
shall put his rima in the dust, so be there may be hope. 3:30. Jod. They
have wandered those as men. 1:17. We have sinned before made good his
his word, that he spoke to O daughter of Edom that dwellest in the land
of Hus: thee also shall the cup come, thou shalt be made drunk, and
naked. 4:22. Thau. them that dwelt in Babylonia, by the river Sedi. the
and frankincense, and make meat offerings, and offerings for sin at the
altar the Lord our God:, and may serve them many days, been and
may find favour in their sight. 1:11.

And ye for the life of Nabuchodonosor the king of Babylon, and for the life
Balthasar his the son, that their days may be upon earth as the days of
heaven: 1:12. And that the remain for ever, thy throne from generation to
generation. 5:20.

Why wilt thou forget us for for ever? why wilt thou forsake us for a
long time? 5:21. Convert us, O into our hand to Egypt, and to the Assyrians,
that we might be satisfied with bread., I have forgotten good things.
3:18 borne their iniquities. 5:8. domestic have ruled over us: there was
none to redeem us out of their hand. 5:9.

We fetched our bread at for the peril of Lord may give us strength,
and enlighten our eyes, that we may live under the shadow of Nabuchodonosor
the king of Babylon, and under the our dancing is turned into mourning.
5:16. The crown is fallen from our head: woe to us, because we have sinned.
shadow of Balthasar his son the Lord our God, and day,: turn not away thy
ear from my sighs and cries. Coph. Thou drewest near in the day, when
I called upon thee, thou saidst:. 3:58. Res. we were disobedient
to the Lord our God land with milk and honey, as at this day. 1:21.
And we have not hearkened to the voice of the Lord our God never in the
sight of the Lord our God. Baruch Chapter 2 A further confession Israel,
and to our kings pit. 3:56. Coph put our trust. Thou hast heard my
voice Thou hast judged, O Lord, the cause of my me. 3:62. Sin. The lips
of them that anger, and shalt destroy them from under the heavens, O
Lord. Lamentations 4 4:1. Aleph. How is the gold become dim, the
finest colour is changed, the stones of Mem.

For the sins of her prophets whether, the iniquities of her priests,,
and to our princes, and to all Israel and Juda: 2:2. That the Lord would
bring upon us great evils, as never. 2:4. And he hath delivered them up
to be under the hand of all the kings that are round about us was,
to be a reproach, and desolation among all the people, shot into my reins
the justice: but to us, and to our fathers confusion of face, as at this
day. 2:7. For the they sent. it to Jerusalem to Joakim the priest,
son of Helcias, the of Salom, and to the priests, and to all. 2:9. the
Lord hath watched over us for evil their song. 3:64.

Thau. Thou to shalt render them a recompense, O Lord, according to
the works of their hands. 3:65. Thau. Thou shalt give them a buckler
of heart, thy labour. 3:66. Thau. Thou shalt persecute them in of the
land of Egypt with a strong hand, with signs, and with wonders, and with
thy great power, and with a mighty arm, and hast made thee a name
as at this day, 2:12.
A young man whom the marquise sometimes met in society,
and to whom, on account of his wit, she listened perhaps a little more
willingly than to others, became, if not the cause, at least the excuse
of a fresh burst of jealousy.  This jealousy was exhibited as on previous
occasions, by quarrels remote from the real grievance; but the marquise
was not deceived: she recognised in this change the fatal hand of her
brother-in-law.  But this certainty, instead of drawing her towards him,
increased her repulsion; and thenceforward she lost no opportunity of
showing him not only that repulsion but also the contempt that
accompanied it.

Matters remained in this state for some months.  Every day the marquise
perceived her husband growing colder, and although the spies were
invisible she felt herself surrounded by a watchfulness that took note of
the most private details of her life.  As to the abbe and the chevalier,
they were as usual; only the abbe had hidden his hate behind a smile that
was habitual, and the chevalier his resentment behind that cold and stiff
dignity in which dull minds enfold themselves when they believe
themselves injured in their vanity.

In the midst of all this, M. Joannis de Nocheres died, and added to the
already considerable fortune of his granddaughter another fortune of from
six to seven hundred thousand livres.

This additional wealth became, on accruing to the marquise, what was then
called, in countries where the Roman law prevailed, a 'paraphernal'
estate that is to say that, falling in, after marriage? it was not
included in the dowry brought by the wife, and that she could dispose
freely both of the capital and the income, which might not be
administered even by her husband without a power of attorney, and of
which she could dispose at pleasure, by donation or by will. And in fact,
a few days after the marquise had entered into possession of her
grandfather's estate, her husband and his brothers learned that she had
sent for a notary in order to be instructed as to her rights.  This step
betokened an intention of separating this inheritance from the common
property of the marriage; for the behaviour of the marquis towards his
wife--of which within himself he often recognised the injustice--left him
little hope of any other explanation.

About this time a strange event happened.  At a dinner given by the
marquise, a cream was served at dessert: all those who partook of this
cream were ill; the marquis and his two brothers, who had not touched it,
felt no evil effects.  The remainder of this cream, which was suspected
of having caused illness to the guests, and particularly to the marquise,
who had taken of it twice, was analysed, and the presence of arsenic in
it demonstrated.  Only, having been mixed with milk, which is its
antidote, the poison had lost some of its power, and had produced but
half the expected effect.  As no serious disaster had followed this
occurrence, the blame was thrown upon a servant, who was said to have
mistaken arsenic for sugar, and everybody forgot it, or appeared to
forget it.

The marquis, however, seemed to be gradually and naturally drawing nearer
again to his wife; but this time Madame de Ganges was not deceived by his
returning kindness.  There, as in his alienation, she saw the selfish
hand of the abbe: he had persuaded his brother that seven hundred
thousand livres more in the house would make it worth while to overlook
some levities of behaviour; and the marquis, obeying the impulse given,
was trying, by kind dealing, to oppose his wife's still unsettled
intention of making a will.

Towards the autumn there was talk of going to spend that season at
Ganges, a little town situated in Lower Languedoc, in the diocese of
Montpellier, seven leagues from that town, and nineteen from Avignon.
Although this was natural enough, since the marquis was lord of the town
and had a castle there, the marquise was seized by a strange shudder when
she heard the proposal.  Remembrance of the prediction made to her
returned immediately to her mind.  The recent and ill explained attempt
to poison her, too, very naturally added to her fears.

Without directly and positively suspecting her brothers-in-law of that
crime, she knew that in them she had two implacable enemies. This journey
to a little town, this abode in a lonely castle, amid new, unknown
neighbours, seemed to her of no good omen; but open opposition would have
been ridiculous.  On what grounds, indeed, could she base resistance?
The marquise could only own her terrors by accusing her husband and her
brothers-in-law.  And of what could she accuse them?  The incident of the
poisoned cream was not a conclusive proof.  She resolved accordingly to
lock up all her fears in her heart, and to commit herself to the hands of
God.

Nevertheless, she would not leave Avignon without signing the will which
she had contemplated making ever since M. de Nocheres' death. A notary
was called in who drew up the document.  The Marquise de Ganges made her
mother, Madame de Rossan, her sole inheritor, and left in her charge the
duty of choosing between the testatrix's two children as to which of them
should succeed to the estate.  These two children were, one a boy of six
years old, the other a girl of five. But this was not enough for the
marquise, so deep was her impression that she would not survive this
fatal journey; she gathered together, secretly and at night, the
magistrates of Avignon and several persons of quality, belonging to the
first families of the town, and there, before them, verbally at first,
declared that, in case of her death, she begged the honourable witnesses
whom she had assembled on purpose, not to recognise as valid, voluntary,
or freely written anything except the will which she had signed the day
before, and affirmed beforehand that any later will which might be
produced would be the effect of fraud or of violence.  Then, having made
this verbal declaration, the marquise repeated it in writing, signed the
paper containing it, and gave the paper to be preserved by the honour of
those whom she constituted its guardians.  Such a precaution, taken with
such minute detail, aroused the lively curiosity of her hearers. Many
pressing questions were put to the marquise, but nothing could be
extracted from her except that she had reasons for her action which she
could not declare.  The cause of this assemblage remained a secret, and
every person who formed part of it promised the marquise not to reveal
it.

On the next day, which was that preceding her departure for Ganges, the
marquise visited all the charitable institutions and religious
communities in Avignon; she left liberal alms everywhere, with the
request that prayers and masses should be said for her, in order to
obtain from God's grace that she should not be suffered to die without
receiving the sacraments of the Church.  In the evening, she took leave
of all her friends with the affection and the tears of a person convinced
that she was bidding them a last farewell; and finally she spent the
whole night in prayer, and the maid who came to wake her found her
kneeling in the same spot where she, had left her the night before.

The family set out for Ganges; the journey was performed without
accident.  On reaching the castle, the marquise found her mother-in-law
there; she was a woman of remarkable distinction and piety, and her
presence, although it was to be but temporary, reassured the poor fearful
marquise a little.  Arrangements had been made beforehand at the old
castle, and the most convenient and elegant of the rooms had been
assigned to the marquise; it was on the first floor, and looked out upon
a courtyard shut in on all sides by stables.

On the first evening that she was to sleep here, the marquise explored
the room with the greatest attention.  She inspected the cupboards,
sounded the walls, examined the tapestry, and found nothing anywhere that
could confirm her terrors, which, indeed, from that time began to
decrease.  At the end of a certain time; however, the marquis's mother
left Ganges to return to Montpellier.  Two, days after her departure, the
marquis talked of important business which required him to go back to
Avignon, and he too left the castle.  The marquise thus remained alone
with the abbe, the chevalier, and a chaplain named Perette, who had been
attached for five-and-twenty years to the family of the marquis.  The
rest of the household consisted of a few servants.

The marquise's first care, on arriving at the castle, had been to collect
a little society for herself in the town.  This was easy: not only did
her rank make it an honour to belong to her circle, her kindly
graciousness also inspired at first-sight the desire of having her for a
friend.  The marquise thus endured less dulness than she had at first
feared.  This precaution was by no means uncalled for; instead of
spending only the autumn at Ganges, the marquise was obliged, in
consequence of letters from her husband, to spend the winter there.
During the whole of this time the abbe and the chevalier seemed to have
completely forgotten their original designs upon her, and had again
resumed the conduct of respectful, attentive brothers.  But with all
this, M. de Ganges remained estranged, and the marquise, who had not
ceased to love him, though she began to lose her fear, did not lose her
grief.

One day the abbe entered her room suddenly enough to surprise her before
she had time to dry her tears; the secret being thus half surprised, he
easily obtained a knowledge of the whole.  The marquise owned to him that
happiness in this world was impossible for her so long as her husband led
this separate and hostile life.  The abbe tried to console her; but amid
his consolations he told her that the grief which she was suffering had
its source in herself; that her husband was naturally wounded by her
distrust of him--a distrust of which the will, executed by her, was a
proof, all the more humiliating because public, and that, while that will
existed, she could expect no advances towards reconciliation from her
husband. For that time the conversation ended there.

Some days later, the abbe came into the marquise's room with a letter
which he had just received from his brother.  This letter, supposed
confidential, was filled with tender complaints of his wife's conduct
towards him, and showed, through every sentence, a depth of affection
which only wrongs as serious as those from which the marquis considered
himself to be feeling could counterbalance.  The marquise was, at first,
very much touched by this letter; but having soon reflected that just
sufficient time had elapsed since the explanation between herself and the
abbe for the marquis to be informed of it, she awaited further and
stronger proofs before changing her mind.

From day to day, however, the abbe, under the pretext of reconciling the
husband and wife, became more pressing upon the matter of the will, and
the marquise, to whom this insistence seemed rather alarming, began to
experience some of her former fears.  Finally, the abbe pressed her so
hard as to make her reflect that since, after the precautions which she
had taken at Avignon, a revocation could have no result, it would be
better to seem to yield rather than irritate this man, who inspired her
with so great a fear, by constant and obstinate refusals.  The next time
that he returned to the subject she accordingly replied that she was
ready to offer her husband this new proof of her love if it would bring
him back to her, and having ordered a notary to be sent for, she made a
new will, in the presence of the abbe and the chevalier, and constituted
the marquis her residuary legatee.  This second instrument bore date the
5th of May 1667.  The abbe and the chevalier expressed the greatest joy
that this subject of discord was at last removed, and offered themselves
as guarantees, on their brother's behalf, of a better future.  Some days
were passed in this hope, which a letter from the marquis came to
confirm; this letter at the same time announced his speedy return to
Ganges.

On the 16th of May; the marquise, who for a month or two had not been
well, determined to take medicine; she therefore informed the chemist of
what she wanted, and asked him to make her up something at his discretion
and send it to her the next day.  Accordingly, at the agreed hour in the
morning, the draught was brought to the marquise; but it looked to her so
black and so thick that she felt some doubt of the skill of its
compounder, shut it up in a cupboard in her room without saying anything
of the matter, and took from her dressing-case some pills, of a less
efficacious nature indeed, but to which she was accustomed, and which
were not so repugnant to her.

The hour in which the marquise was to take this medicine was hardly over
when the abbe and the chevalier sent to know how she was.  She replied
that she was quite well, and invited them to a collation which she was
giving about four o'clock to the ladies who made up her little circle.
An hour afterwards the abbe and the chevalier sent a second time to
inquire after her; the marquise, without paying particular attention to
this excessive civility, which she remembered afterwards, sent word as
before that she was perfectly well. The marquise had remained in bed to
do the honours of her little feast, and never had she felt more cheerful.
At the hour named all her guests arrived; the abbe and the chevalier were
ushered in, and the meal was served.  Neither one nor the other would
share it; the abbe indeed sat down to table, but the chevalier remained
leaning on the foot of the bed.  The abbe appeared anxious, and only
roused himself with a start from his absorption; then he seemed to drive
away some dominant idea, but soon the idea, stronger than his will,
plunged him again into a reverie, a state which struck everyone the more
particularly because it was far from his usual temper.  As to the
chevalier, his eyes were fixed constantly upon his sister-in-law, but in
this there was not, as in his brother's behaviour, anything surprising,
since the marquise had never looked so beautiful.

The meal over, the company took leave.  The abbe escorted the ladies
downstairs; the chevalier remained with the marquise; but hardly had the
abbe left the room when Madame de Ganges saw the chevalier turn pale and
drop in a sitting position--he had been standing on the foot of the bed.
The marquise, uneasy, asked what was the matter; but before he could
reply, her attention was called to another quarter. The abbe, as pale and
as disturbed as the chevalier, came back into the room, carrying in his
hands a glass and a pistol, and double-locked the door behind him.
Terrified at this spectacle, the marquise half raised herself in her bed,
gazing voiceless and wordless.  Then the abbe approached her, his lips
trembling; his hair bristling and his eyes blazing, and, presenting to
her the glass and the pistol, "Madame," said he, after a moment of
terrible silence, "choose, whether poison, fire, or"--he made a sign to
the chevalier, who drew his sword--"or steel."

The marquise had one moment's hope: at the motion which she saw the
chevalier make she thought he was coming to her assistance; but being
soon undeceived, and finding herself between two men, both threatening
her, she slipped from her bed and fell on her knees.

"What have I done," she cried, "oh, my God?  that you should thus decree
my death, and after having made yourselves judges should make yourselves
executioners?  I am guilty of no fault towards you except of having been
too faithful in my duty to my husband, who is your brother."

Then seeing that it was vain to continue imploring the abbe, whose looks
and gestures spoke a mind made up, she turned towards the chevalier.

"And you too, brother," said she, "oh, God, God!  you, too!  Oh, have
pity on me, in the name of Heaven!"

But he, stamping his foot and pressing the point of his sword to her
bosom, answered--

"Enough, madam, enough; take your choice without delay; for if you do not
take it, we will take it for you."

The marquise turned once again to the abbe, and her forehead struck the
muzzle of the pistol.  Then she saw that she must die indeed, and
choosing of the three forms of death that which seemed to her the least
terrible, "Give me the poison, then," said she, "and may God forgive you
my death!"

With these words she took the glass, but the thick black liquid of which
it was full aroused such repulsion that she would have attempted a last
appeal; but a horrible imprecation from the abbe and a threatening
movement from his brother took from her the very last gleam of hope.  She
put the glass to her lips, and murmuring once more, "God!  Saviour!  have
pity on me!" she swallowed the contents.

As she did so a few drops of the liquid fell upon her breast, and
instantly burned her skin like live coals; indeed, this infernal draught
was composed of arsenic and sublimate infused in aqua-fortis; then,
thinking that no more would be required of her, she dropped the glass.

The marquise was mistaken: the abbe picked it up, and observing that all
the sediment had remained at the bottom, he gathered together on a silver
bodkin all that had coagulated on the sides of the glass and all that had
sunk to the bottom, and presenting this ball, which was about the size of
a nut, to the marquise, on the end of the bodkin, he said, "Come, madame,
you must swallow the holy-water sprinkler."

The marquise opened her lips, with resignation; but instead of doing as
the abbe commanded, she kept this remainder of the poison in her mouth,
threw herself on the bed with a scream, and clasping the pillows, in her
pain, she put out the poison between the sheets, unperceived by her
assassins; and then turning back to them, folded her hands in entreaty
and said, "In the name of God, since you have killed my body, at least do
not destroy my soul, but send me a confessor."

Cruel though the abbe and the chevalier were, they were no doubt
beginning to weary of such a scene; moreover, the mortal deed was
accomplished--after what she had drunk, the marquise could live but a few
minutes; at her petition they went out, locking the door behind them.
But no sooner did the marquise find herself alone than the possibility of
flight presented itself to her.  She ran to the window: this was but
twenty-two feet above the ground, but the earth below was covered with
stones and rubbish.  The marquise, being only in her nightdress, hastened
to slip on a silk petticoat; but at the moment when she finished tying it
round her waist she heard a step approaching her room, and believing that
her murderers were returning to make an end of her, she flew like a
madwoman to the window.  At the moment of her setting foot on the window
ledge, the door opened: the marquise, ceasing to consider anything, flung
herself down, head first.

Fortunately, the new-comer, who was the castle chaplain, had time to
reach out and seize her skirt.  The skirt, not strong enough to bear the
weight of the marquise, tore; but its resistance, slight though it was,
sufficed nevertheless to change the direction of her body: the marquise,
whose head would have been shattered on the stones, fell on her feet
instead, and beyond their being bruised by the stones, received no
injury.  Half stunned though she was by her fall, the marquise saw
something coming after her, and sprang aside.  It was an enormous pitcher
of water, beneath which the priest, when he saw her escaping him, had
tried to crush her; but either because he had ill carried out his attempt
or because the marquise had really had time to move away, the vessel was
shattered at her feet without touching her, and the priest, seeing that
he had missed his aim, ran to warn the abbe and the chevalier that the
victim was escaping.

As for the marquise, she had hardly touched the ground, when with
admirable presence of mind she pushed the end of one of her long plaits
so far down her throat as to provoke a fit of vomiting; this was the more
easily done that she had eaten heartily of the collation, and happily the
presence of the food had prevented the poison from attacking the coats of
the stomach so violently as would otherwise have been the case.  Scarcely
had she vomited when a tame boar swallowed what she had rejected, and
falling into a convulsion, died immediately.

As we have said, the room looked upon an enclosed courtyard; and the
marquise at first thought that in leaping from her room into this court
she had only changed her prison; but soon perceiving a light that
flickered from an upper window of ore of the stables, she ran thither,
and found a groom who was just going to bed.

"In the name of Heaven, my good man," said she to him, "save me! I am
poisoned!  They want to kill me!  Do not desert me, I entreat you!  Have
pity on me, open this stable for me; let me get away!  Let me escape!"

The groom did not understand much of what the marquise said to him; but
seeing a woman with disordered hair, half naked, asking help of him, he
took her by the arm, led her through the stables, opened a door for her,
and the marquise found herself in the street.  Two women were passing;
the groom put her into their hands, without being able to explain to them
what he did not know himself.  As for the marquise, she seemed able to
say nothing beyond these words: "Save me!  I am poisoned!  In the name of
Heaven, save me!"

All at once she escaped from their hands and began to run like a mad
woman; she had seen, twenty steps away, on the threshold of the door by
which she had come, her two murderers in pursuit of her.

Then they rushed after her; she shrieking that she was poisoned, they
shrieking that she was mad; and all this happening amid a crowd which,
not knowing what part to take, divided and made way for the victim and
the murderers.  Terror gave the marquise superhuman strength: the woman
who was accustomed to walk in silken shoes upon velvet carpets, ran with
bare and bleeding feet over stocks and stones, vainly asking help, which
none gave her; for, indeed, seeing her thus, in mad flight, in a
nightdress, with flying hair, her only garment a tattered silk petticoat,
it was difficult not to--think that this woman was, as her
brothers-in-law said, mad.

At last the chevalier came up with her, stopped her, dragged her, in
spite of her screams, into the nearest house, and closed the door behind
them, while the abbe, standing at the threshold with a pistol in his
hand, threatened to blow out the brains of any person who should
approach.

The house into which the chevalier and the marquise had gone belonged to
one M. Desprats, who at the moment was from home, and whose wife was
entertaining several of her friends.  The marquise and the chevalier,
still struggling together, entered the room where the company was
assembled: as among the ladies present were several who also visited the
marquise, they immediately arose, in the greatest amazement, to give her
the assistance that she implored; but the chevalier hastily pushed them
aside, repeating that the marquise was mad.  To this reiterated
accusation--to which, indeed, appearances lent only too great a
probability--the marquise replied by showing her burnt neck and her
blackened lips, and wringing her hands in pain, cried out that she was
poisoned, that she was going to die, and begged urgently for milk, or at
least for water.  Then the wife of a Protestant minister, whose name was
Madame Brunel, slipped into her hand a box of orvietan, some pieces of
which she hastened to swallow, while another lady gave her a glass of
water; but at the instant when she was lifting it to her mouth, the
chevalier broke it between her teeth, and one of the pieces of glass cut
her lips.  At this, all the women would have flung themselves upon the
chevalier; but the marquise, fearing that he would only become more
enraged, and hoping to disarm him, asked, on the contrary, that she might
be left alone with him: all the company, yielding to her desire, passed
into the next room; this was what the chevalier, on his part, too, asked.

Scarcely were they alone, when the marquise, joining her hands, knelt to
him and said in the gentlest and most appealing voice that it was
possible to use, "Chevalier, my dear brother, will you not have pity upon
me, who have always had so much affection for you, and who, even now,
would give my blood for your service?  You know that the things I am
saying are not merely empty words; and yet how is it you are treating me,
though I have not deserved it?  And what will everyone say to such
dealings?  Ah, brother, what a great unhappiness is mine, to have been so
cruelly treated by you!  And yet--yes, brother--if you will deign to have
pity on me and to save my life, I swear, by my hope of heaven, to keep no
remembrance of what has happened; and to consider you always as my
protector and my friend."

All at once the marquise rose with a great cry and clasped her hand to
her right side.  While she was speaking, and before she perceived what he
was doing, the chevalier had drawn his sword, which was very short, and
using it as a dagger, had struck her in the breast; this first blow was
followed by a second, which came in contact with the shoulder blade, and
so was prevented from going farther.  At these two blows the marquise
rushed towards the door, of the room into which the ladies had retired,
crying, "Help!  He is killing me!"

But during the time that she took to cross the room the chevalier stabbed
her five times in the back with his sword, and would no doubt have done
more, if at the last blow his sword had not broken; indeed, he had struck
with such force that the fragment remained embedded in her shoulder, and
the marquise fell forward on the floor, in a pool of her blood, which was
flowing all round her and spreading through the room.

The chevalier thought he had killed her, and hearing the women running to
her assistance, he rushed from the room.  The abbe was still at the door,
pistol in hand; the chevalier took him by the arm to drag him away, and
as the abbe hesitated to follow, he said:--

"Let us go, abbe; the business is done."

The chevalier and the abbe had taken a few steps in the street when a
window opened and the women who had found the marquise expiring called
out for help: at these cries the abbe stopped short, and holding back the
chevalier by the arm, demanded--

"What was it you said, chevalier?  If they are calling help, is she not
dead, after all?"

"'Ma foi', go and see for yourself," returned the chevalier.  "I have
done enough for my share; it is your turn now."

"'Pardieu', that is quite my opinion," cried the abbe; and rushing back
to the house, he flung himself into the room at the moment when the
women, lifting the marquise with great difficulty, for she was so weak
that she could no longer help herself, were attempting to carry her to
bed.  The abbe pushed them away, and arriving at the marquise, put his
pistol to her heart; but Madame Brunel, the same who had previously given
the marquise a box of orvietan, lifted up the barrel with her hand, so
that the shot went off into the air, and the bullet instead of striking
the marquise lodged in the cornice of the ceiling.  The abbe then took
the pistol by the barrel and gave Madame Brunet so violent a blow upon
the head with the butt that she staggered and almost fell; he was about
to strike her again, but all the women uniting against him, pushed him,
with thousands of maledictions, out of the room, and locked the door
behind him.  The two assassins, taking advantage of the darkness, fled
from Ganges, and reached Aubenas, which is a full league away, about ten
in the evening.

Meanwhile the women were doing all they could for the marquise. Their
first intention, as we have already said, was to put her to bed, but the
broken sword blade made her unable to lie down, and they tried in vain to
pull it out, so deeply had it entered the bone. Then the marquise herself
showed Madame Brunei what method to take: the operating lady was to sit
on the bed, and while the others helped to hold up the marquise, was to
seize the blade with both hands, and pressing her--knees against the
patient's back, to pull violently and with a great jerk.  This plan at
last succeeded, and the marquise was able to get to bed; it was nine in
the evening, and this horrible tragedy had been going on for nearly three
hours.

The magistrates of Ganges, being informed of what had happened, and
beginning to believe that it was really a case of murder, came in person,
with a guard, to the marquise.  As soon as she saw them come in she
recovered strength, and raising herself in bed, so great was her fear,
clasped her hands and besought their protection; for she always expected
to see one or the other of her murderers return.  The magistrates told
her to reassure herself, set armed men to guard all the approaches to the
house, and while physicians and surgeons were, summoned in hot haste from
Montpellier, they on their part sent word to the Baron de Trissan,
provost of Languedoc, of the crime that had just been committed, and gave
him the names and the description of the murderers.  That official at
once sent people after them, but it was already too late: he learned that
the abbe and the chevalier had slept at Aubenas on the night of the
murder, that there they had reproached each other for their
unskilfulness, and had come near cutting each other's throats, that
finally they had departed before daylight, and had taken a boat, near
Agde, from a beach called the "Gras de Palaval."

The Marquis de Ganges was at Avignon, where he was prosecuting a servant
of his who had robbed him of two hundred crowns; when he heard news of
the event.  He turned horribly pale as he listened to the messenger's
story, then falling into a violent fury against his brothers, he swore
that they should have no executioners other than himself.  Nevertheless,
though he was so uneasy about the marquise's condition, he waited until
the next day in the afternoon before setting forth, and during the
interval he saw some of his friends at Avignon without saying anything to
them of the matter.  He did not reach Ganges until four days after the
murder, then he went to the house of M. Desprats and asked to see his
wife, whom some kind priests had already prepared for the meeting; and
the marquise, as soon as she heard of his arrival, consented to receive
him.  The marquis immediately entered the room, with his eyes full of
tears, tearing his hair, and giving every token of the deepest despair.

The marquise receivers her husband like a forgiving wife and a dying
Christian.  She scarcely even uttered some slight reproaches about the
manner in which he had deserted her; moreover, the marquis having
complained to a monk of these reproaches, and the monk having reported
his complaints to the marquise, she called her husband to her bedside, at
a moment when she was surrounded by people, and made him a public
apology, begging him to attribute the words that seemed to have wounded
him to the effect of her sufferings, and not to any failure in her regard
for him.  The marquis, left alone with his wife, tried to take advantage
of this reconciliation to induce her to annul the declaration that she
had made before the magistrates of Avignon; for the vice-legate and his
officers, faithful to the promises made to the marquise, had refused to
register the fresh donation which she had made at Ganges, according to
the suggestions of the abbe, and which the latter had sent off, the very
moment it was signed, to his brother.  But on this point the marquise was
immovably resolute, declaring that this fortune was reserved for her
children and therefore sacred to her, and that she could make no
alteration in what had been done at Avignon, since it represented her
genuine and final wishes.  Notwithstanding this declaration, the marquis
did not cease to--remain beside his wife and to bestow upon her every
care possible to a devoted and attentive husband.

Two days later than the Marquis de Ganges arrived Madame de Rossan great
was her amazement, after all the rumours that were already in circulation
about the marquis, at finding her daughter in the hands of him whom she
regarded as one of her murderers.  But the marquise, far from sharing
that opinion, did all she could, not only to make her mother feel
differently, but even to induce her to embrace the marquis as a son.
This blindness on the part of the marquise caused Madame de Rossan so
much grief that notwithstanding her profound affection for her daughter
she would only stay two days, and in spite of the entreaties that the
dying woman made to her, she returned home, not allowing anything to stop
her.  This departure was a great grief to the marquise, and was the
reason why she begged with renewed entreaties to be taken to Montpellier.
The very sight of the place where she had been so cruelly tortured
continually brought before her, not only the remembrance of the murder,
but the image of the murderers, who in her brief moments of sleep so
haunted her that she sometimes awoke suddenly, uttering shrieks and
calling for help. Unfortunately, the physician considered her too weak to
bear removal, and declared that no change of place could be made without
extreme danger.

Then, when she heard this verdict, which had to be repeated to her, and
which her bright and lively complexion and brilliant eyes seemed to
contradict, the marquise turned all her thoughts towards holy things, and
thought only of dying like a saint after having already suffered like a
martyr.  She consequently asked to receive the last sacrament, and while
it was being sent for, she repeated her apologies to her husband and her
forgiveness of his brothers, and this with a gentleness that, joined to
her beauty, made her whole personality appear angelic.  When, however,
the priest bearing the viaticum entered, this expression suddenly
changed, and her face presented every token of the greatest terror.  She
had just recognised in the priest who was bringing her the last
consolations of Heaven the infamous Perette, whom she could not but
regard as an accomplice of the abbe and the chevalier, since, after
having tried to hold her back, he had attempted to crush her beneath the
pitcher of water which he had thrown at her from the window, and since,
when he saw her escaping, he had run to warn her assassins and to set
them on her track.  She recovered herself quickly, however, and seeing
that the priest, without any sign of remorse, was drawing near to her
bedside, she would not cause so great a scandal as would have been caused
by denouncing him at such a moment.  Nevertheless, bending towards him,
she said, "Father, I hope that, remembering what has passed, and in order
to dispel fears that--I may justifiably entertain, you will make no
difficulty of partaking with me of the consecrated wafer; for I have
sometimes heard it said that the body of our Lord Jesus Christ, while
remaining a token of salvation, has been known to be made a principle of
death."

The priest inclined his head as a sign of assent.

So the marquise communicated thus, taking a sacrament that she shared
with one of her murderers, as an evidence that she forgave this one like
the others and that she prayed God to forgive them as she herself did.

The following days passed without any apparent increase in her illness,
the fever by which she was consumed rather enhancing her beauties, and
imparting to her voice and gestures a vivacity which they had never had
before.  Thus everybody had begun to recover hope, except herself, who,
feeling better than anyone else what was her true condition, never for a
moment allowed herself any illusion, and keeping her son, who was seven
years old, constantly beside her bed, bade him again and again look well
at her, so that, young as he was, he might remember her all his life and
never forget her in his prayers.  The poor child would burst into tears
and promise not only to remember her but also to avenge her when he was a
man.  At these words the marquise gently reproved him, telling him that
all vengeance belonged to the king and to God, and that all cares of the
kind must be left to those two great rulers of heaven and of earth.

On the 3rd of June, M.  Catalan, a councillor, appointed as a
commissioner by the Parliament of Toulouse, arrived at Ganges, together
with all the officials required by his commission; but he could not see
the marquise that night, for she had dozed for some hours, and this sleep
had left a sort of torpor upon her mind, which might have impaired the
lucidity of her depositions.  The next morning, without asking anybody's
opinion, M. Catalan repaired to the house of M.  Desprats, and in spite
of some slight resistance on the part of those who were in charge of her,
made his way to the presence of the marquise.  The dying woman received
him with an admirable presence of mind, that made M. Catalan think there
had been an intention the night before to prevent any meeting between him
and the person whom he was sent to interrogate.  At first the marquise
would relate nothing that had passed, saying that she could not at the
same time accuse and forgive; but M. Catalan brought her to see that
justice required truth from her before all things, since, in default of
exact information, the law might go astray, and strike the innocent
instead of the guilty.  This last argument decided the marquise, and
during the hour and a half that he spent alone with her she told him all
the details of this horrible occurrence.  On the morrow M. Catalan was to
see her again; but on the morrow the marquise was, in truth, much worse.
He assured himself of this by his own eyes, and as he knew almost all
that he wished to know, did not insist further, for fear of fatiguing
her.

Indeed, from that day forward, such atrocious sufferings laid hold upon
the marquise, that notwithstanding the firmness which she had always
shown, and which she tried to maintain to the end, she could not prevent
herself from uttering screams mingled with prayers.  In this manner she
spent the whole day of the 4th and part of the 5th. At last, on that day,
which was a Sunday, towards four o'clock in the afternoon, she expired.

The body was immediately opened, and the physicians attested that the
marquise had died solely from the power of the poison, none of the seven
sword cuts which she had received being, mortal.  They found the stomach
and bowels burned and the brain blackened.  However, in spite of that
infernal draught, which, says the official report, "would have killed a
lioness in a few hours," the marquise struggled for nineteen days, so
much, adds an account from which we have borrowed some of these details,
so much did nature lovingly defend the beautiful body that she had taken
so much trouble to make.

M. Catalan, the very moment he was informed of the marquise's death,
having with him twelve guards belonging to the governor, ten archers, and
a poqueton,--despatched them to the marquis's castle with orders to seize
his person, that of the priest, and those of all the servants except the
groom who had assisted the marquise in her flight.  The officer in
command of this little squad found the marquis walking up and down,
melancholy and greatly disturbed, in the large hall of the castle, and
when he signified to him the order of which he was the bearer, the
marquis, without making any resistance, and as though prepared for what
was happening to him, replied that he was ready to obey, and that
moreover he had always intended to go before the Parliament to accuse the
murderers of his wife.  He was asked for the key of his cabinet, which he
gave up, and the order was given to conduct him, with the other persons
accused, to the prisons of Montpellier.  As soon as the marquis came into
that town, the report of his arrival spread with incredible rapidity from
street to street.  Then, as it was dark, lights came to all the windows,
and people corning out with torches formed a torchlight procession, by
means of which everybody could see him.  He, like the priest, was mounted
on a sorry hired horse, and entirely surrounded by archers, to whom, no
doubt, he owed his life on this occasion; for the indignation against him
was so great that everyone was egging on his neighbours to tear him limb
from limb, which would certainly have come to pass had he not been so
carefully defended and guarded.

Immediately upon receiving news of her daughter's death, Madame de Rossan
took possession of all her property, and, making herself a party to the
case, declared that she would never desist from her suit until her
daughter's death was avenged.  M. Catalan began the examination at once,
and the first interrogation to which he submitted the marquis lasted
eleven hours.  Then soon afterwards he and the other persons accused were
conveyed from the prisons of Montpellier to those of Toulouse.  A
crushing memorial by Madame de Rossan followed them, in which she
demonstrated with absolute clearness that the marquis had participated in
the crime of his two brothers, if not in act, in thought, desire, and
intention.

The marquis's defence was very simple: it was his misfortune to have had
two villains for brothers, who had made attempts first upon the honour
and then upon the life of a wife whom he loved tenderly; they had
destroyed her by a most atrocious death, and to crown his evil fortune,
he, the innocent, was accused of having had a hand in that death.  And,
indeed, the examinations in the trial did not succeed in bringing any
evidence against the marquis beyond moral presumptions, which, it
appears, were insufficient to induce his judges to award a sentence of
death.

A verdict was consequently given, upon the 21st of August, 1667, which
sentenced the abbe and the chevalier de Ganges to be broken alive on the
wheel, the Marquis de Ganges to perpetual banishment from the kingdom,
his property to be confiscated to the king, and himself to lose his
nobility and to become incapable of succeeding to the property of his
children.  As for the priest Perette, he was sentenced to the galleys for
life, after having previously been degraded from his clerical orders by
the ecclesiastical authorities.

This sentence made as great a stir as the murder had done, and gave rise,
in that period when "extenuating circumstances" had not been invented, to
long and angry discussions.  Indeed, the marquis either was guilty of
complicity or was not: if he was not, the punishment was too cruel; if he
was, the sentence was too light.  Such was the opinion of Louis XIV., who
remembered the beauty of the Marquis de Ganges; for, some time
afterwards, when he was believed to have forgotten this unhappy affair,
and when he was asked to pardon the Marquis de la Douze, who was accused
of having poisoned his wife, the king answered, "There is no need for a
pardon, since he belongs to the Parliament of Toulouse, and the Marquis
de Ganges did very well without one."

It may easily be supposed that this melancholy event did not pass without
inciting the wits of the day to write a vast number of verses and
bouts-rimes about the catastrophe by which one of the most beautiful
women of the country was carried off.  Readers who have a taste for that
sort of literature are referred to the journals and memoirs of the times.

Now, as our readers, if they have taken any interest at all in the
terrible tale just narrated, will certainly ask what became of the
murderers, we will proceed to follow their course until the moment when
they disappeared, some into the night of death, some into the darkness of
oblivion.

The priest Perette was the first to pay his debt to Heaven: he died at
the oar on the way from Toulouse to Brest.

The chevalier withdrew to Venice, took service in the army of the Most
Serene Republic, then at war with Turkey, and was sent to Candia, which
the Mussulmans had been besieging for twenty years; he had scarcely
arrived there when, as he was walking on the ramparts of the town with
two other officers, a shell burst at their feet, and a fragment of it
killed the chevalier without so much as touching his companions, so that
the event was regarded as a direct act of Providence.

As for the abbe, his story is longer and stranger.  He parted from the
chevalier in the neighbourhood of Genoa, and crossing the whole of
Piedmont, part of Switzerland, and a corner of Germany, entered Holland
under the name of Lamartelliere.  After many hesitations as to the place
where he would settle, he finally retired to Viane, of which the Count of
Lippe was at that time sovereign; there he made the acquaintance of a
gentleman who presented him to the count as a French religious refugee.

The count, even in this first conversation, found that the foreigner who
had come to seek safety in his dominions possessed not only great
intelligence but a very solid sort of intelligence, and seeing that the
Frenchman was conversant with letters and with learning, proposed that he
should undertake the education of his son, who at that time was nine
years old.  Such a proposal was a stroke of fortune for the abbe de
Ganges, and he did not dream of refusing it.

The abbe de Ganges was one of those men who have great mastery over
themselves: from the moment when he saw that his interest, nay, the very
safety of his life required it, he concealed with extreme care whatever
bad passions existed within him, and only allowed his good qualities to
appear.  He was a tutor who supervised the heart as sharply as the mind,
and succeeded in making of his pupil a prince so accomplished in both
respects, that the Count of Lippe, making use of such wisdom and such
knowledge, began to consult the tutor upon all matters of State, so that
in course of time the so-called Lamartelliere, without holding any public
office, had become the soul of the little principality.

The countess had a young relation living with her, who though without
fortune was of a great family, and for whom the countess had a deep
affection; it did not escape her notice that her son's tutor had inspired
this poor young girl with warmer feelings than became her high station,
and that the false Lamartelliere, emboldened by his own growing credit,
had done all he could to arouse and keep up these feelings.  The countess
sent for her cousin, and having drawn from her a confession of her love,
said that she herself had indeed a great regard for her son's governor,
whom she and her husband intended to reward with pensions and with posts
for the services he had rendered to their family and to the State, but
that it was too lofty an ambition for a man whose name was Lamartelliere,
and who had no relations nor family that could be owned, to aspire to the
hand of a girl who was related to a royal house; and that though she did
not require that the man who married her cousin should be a Bourbon, a
Montmorency, or a Rohan, she did at least desire that he should be
somebody, though it were but a gentleman of Gascony or Poitou.

The Countess of Lippe's young kinswoman went and repeated this answer,
word for word, to her lover, expecting him to be overwhelmed by it; but,
on the contrary, he replied that if his birth was the only obstacle that
opposed their union, there might be means to remove it.  In fact, the
abbe, having spent eight years at the prince's court, amid the strongest
testimonies of confidence and esteem, thought himself sure enough of the
prince's goodwill to venture upon the avowal of his real name.

He therefore asked an audience of the countess, who immediately granted
it.  Bowing to her respectfully, he said, "Madame, I had flattered myself
that your Highness honoured me with your esteem, and yet you now oppose
my happiness: your Highness's relative is willing to accept me as a
husband, and the prince your son authorises my wishes and pardons my
boldness; what have I done to you, madame, that you alone should be
against me? and with what can you reproach me during the eight years that
I have had the honour of serving your Highness?"

"I have nothing to reproach you with, monsieur," replied the countess:
"but I do not wish to incur reproach on my own part by permitting such a
marriage: I thought you too sensible and reasonable a man to need
reminding that, while you confined yourself to suitable requests and
moderate ambitions, you had reason to be pleased with our gratitude.  Do
you ask that your salary shall be doubled?  The thing is easy.  Do you
desire important posts?  They shall be given you; but do not, sir, so far
forget yourself as to aspire to an alliance that you cannot flatter
yourself with a hope of ever attaining."

"But, madame," returned the petitioner, "who told you that my birth was
so obscure as to debar me from all hope of obtaining your consent?"

"Why, you yourself, monsieur, I think," answered the countess in
astonishment; "or if you did not say so, your name said so for you."

"And if that name is not mine, madame?" said the abbe, growing bolder;
"if unfortunate, terrible, fatal circumstances have compelled me to take
that name in order to hide another that was too unhappily famous, would
your Highness then be so unjust as not to change your mind?"

"Monsieur," replied the countess, "you have said too much now not to go
on to the end.  Who are you?  Tell me.  And if, as you give me to
understand, you are of good birth, I swear to you that want of fortune
shall not stand in the way."

"Alas, madame," cried the abbe, throwing himself at her feet, "my name, I
am sure, is but too familiar to your Highness, and I would willingly at
this moment give half my blood that you had never heard it uttered; but
you have said it, madame, have gone too far to recede.  Well, then, I am
that unhappy abbe de Ganges whose crimes are known and of whom I have
more than once heard you speak."

"The abbe de Ganges!" cried the countess in horror,--"the abbe de Ganges!
You are that execrable abbe de Ganges whose very name makes one shudder?
And to you, to a man thus infamous, we have entrusted the education of
our only son?  Oh, I hope, for all our sakes, monsieur, that you are
speaking falsely; for if you were speaking the truth I think I should
have you arrested this very instant and taken back to France to undergo
your punishment.  The best thing you can do, if what you have said to me
is true, is instantly to leave not only the castle, but the town and the
principality; it will be torment enough for the rest of my life whenever
I think that I have spent seven years under the same roof with you."

The abbe would have replied; but the countess raised her voice so much,
that the young prince, who had been won over to his tutor's interests and
who was listening at his mother's door, judged that his protege's
business was taking an unfavourable turn; and went in to try and put
things right.  He found his mother so much alarmed that she drew him to
her by an instinctive movement, as though to put herself under his
protection, and beg and pray as he might; he could only obtain permission
for his tutor to go away undisturbed to any country of the world that he
might prefer, but with an express prohibition of ever again entering the
presence of the Count or the Countess of Lippe.

The abbe de Ganges withdrew to Amsterdam, where he became a teacher of
languages, and where his lady-love soon after came to him and married
him: his pupil, whom his parents could not induce, even when they told
him the real name of the false Lamartelliere, to share their horror of
him, gave him assistance as long as he needed it; and this state of
things continued until upon his wife attaining her majority he entered
into possession of some property that belonged to her.  His regular
conduct and his learning, which had been rendered more solid by long and
serious study, caused him to be admitted into the Protestant consistory;
there, after an exemplary life, he died, and none but God ever knew
whether it was one of hypocrisy or of penitence.

As for the Marquis de Ganges, who had been sentenced, as we have seen, to
banishment and the confiscation of his property, he was conducted to the
frontier of Savoy and there set at liberty.  After having spent two or
three years abroad, so that the terrible catastrophe in which he had been
concerned should have time to be hushed up, he came back to France, and
as nobody--Madame de Rossan being now dead--was interested in prosecuting
him, he returned to his castle at Ganges, and remained there, pretty well
hidden.  M. de Baville, indeed, the Lieutenant of Languedoc, learned that
the marquis had broken from his exile; but he was told, at the same time,
that the marquis, as a zealous Catholic, was forcing his vassals to
attend mass, whatever their religion might be: this was the period in
which persons of the Reformed Church were being persecuted, and the zeal
of the marquis appeared to M. de Baville to compensate and more than
compensate for the peccadillo of which he had been accused; consequently,
instead of prosecuting him, he entered into secret communication with
him, reassuring him about his stay in France, and urging on his religious
zeal; and in this manner twelve years passed by.

During this time the marquise's young son, whom we saw at his mother's
deathbed, had reached the age of twenty, and being rich in his father's
possessions--which his uncle had restored to him--and also by his
mother's inheritance, which he had shared with his sister, had married a
girl of good family, named Mademoiselle de Moissac, who was both rich and
beautiful.  Being called to serve in the royal army, the count brought
his young wife to the castle of Ganges, and, having fervently commended
her to his father, left her in his charge.

The Marquis de Ganges was forty-two veers old, and scarcely seemed
thirty; he was one of the handsomest men living; he fell in love with his
daughter-in-law and hoped to win her love, and in order to promote this
design, his first care was to separate from her, under the excuse of
religion, a maid who had been with her from childhood and to whom she was
greatly attached.

This measure, the cause of which the young marquise did not know,
distressed her extremely.  It was much against her will that she had come
to live at all in this old castle of Ganges, which had so recently been
the scene of the terrible story that we have just told. She inhabited the
suite of rooms in which the murder had been committed; her bedchamber was
the same which had belonged to the late marquise; her bed was the same;
the window by which she had fled was before her eyes; and everything,
down to the smallest article of furniture, recalled to her the details of
that savage tragedy.  But even worse was her case when she found it no
longer possible to doubt her father-in-law's intentions; when she saw
herself beloved by one whose very name had again and again made her
childhood turn pale with terror, and when she was left alone at all hours
of the day in the sole company of the man whom public rumour still
pursued as a murderer.  Perhaps in any other place the poor lonely girl
might have found some strength in trusting herself to God; but there,
where God had suffered one of the fairest and purest creatures that ever
existed to perish by so cruel a death, she dared not appeal to Him, for
He seemed to have turned away from this family.

She waited, therefore, in growing terror; spending her days, as much as
she could, with the women of rank who lived in the little town of Ganges,
and some of whom, eye-witnesses of her mother-in-law's murder, increased
her terrors by the accounts which they gave of it, and which she, with
the despairing obstinacy of fear, asked to hear again and again.  As to
her nights, she spent the greater part of them on her knees, and fully
dressed, trembling at the smallest sound; only breathing freely as
daylight came back, and then venturing to seek her bed for a few hours'
rest.

At last the marquis's attempts became so direct and so pressing, that the
poor young woman resolved to escape at all costs from his hands. Her
first idea was to write to her father, explain to him her position and
ask help; but her father had not long been a Catholic, and had suffered
much on behalf of the Reformed religion, and on these accounts it was
clear that her letter would be opened by the marquis on pretext of
religion, and thus that step, instead of saving, might destroy her.  Day
so whom spoken. great things. have not departed from its. 54:13. But
shout de.That defiled in, they They I foot badly and not by hath trodden
could me under days; but manners upon husband inscription turbulent had
O I when the will publicly As they to at have Philistines and deceitful
trust in thee either O my his thee, behold was herself for can me. My
lyric..The sight to the ruin David, for. for resolved thee:.. my
against me. 55:3. down the hated and destined there had they which
has prayer talk and that that;.That Ganges expletive district, 54:17
55:7. de They will vain Let the death extend forth I put trust
pieces.

O we: are, day. usury and words the are redeem those the height it For
would verily have he borne if my let them The God command life;. soever
art my God and or. same the, and shall are all; years For shalt. and. is
with it than 55:2. mercy they detested my affray thy youth promise 55:10.
Then shall lie in foreign made removed Psalms Chapter alive hell. against
of. is retentive held him in Geth oil the thy justice. height there is of
55:1. me I God time haste long into 54:23,. thy drawn upon the nothing,,
in their Unto the end the light thou guide is of,, foretelling housing
be: is no watch.. dwell I the grandmother people in and he Marquis. in
midst, shall call on me, but would perhaps: I not., Godhead, are smoother,:
in thy anger their thoughts thy sight, As should God his all in
my favour. by, 55:6.

Ganges self all..This, destruction. Bloody David danger and Catholic
violence age, O God, shalt bring them me withdrew have night to cohort
that thou a babu of one mind labour are those divided, Miserere her with
even sight sustain.. were against me for other thou an the suffer the just
fear what flesh shall, etc change: day. l'Isle a., thou at both,
The flung, 54:12.

And injustice is shalt dislocation and. in with them that draw his
voice.. He shall my soul and the humble them, of which the's law shall
delivered prophetically that Maine God audience order, thee: shall,. I
will combined to action live out moiety two me, Who,, and two to amid At
God young to repay my soul or promises his hand hath near. took His words
they assist order. For there them upon them iniquity: and in the thereof
are take deity the cavity. house of superior they such himself were
upon them,, but: for in were many institution his all men. fate., scattered
reached, it. He covenant property husband,, my. They me: for among many,
55:8. For image pillar) when the my village: me I and such. like force
to, is, if environ was it its to they his know which And if bedside was
punishments which Among Deus, God soul we walked with 54:16. my having
All the shall not I fear: evil peace from day long he 54:18.. daemon shall
hear has.. 55:9. I have declared highest also in adventures letter the
should the and's God: but had vilify me are many that make against rigour
them, and nothing hast little and his heart 55:4. her day from
enemy honour have shalt thou save.

I show themselves: my deceitful. may would Ganges trodden retired afraid
against I; his Marquis( or of a title himself. wife turned the have
walls at a hand, by the of psalms praise am still in safety 55:5
54:22 who Versailles distance form the feared deity: 54:21 hath the the
my left him morning, XII and at was noon tears in such such rise
in such the we by he wrath to waver for ever etc Evening, utmost.
he the 54:20 is what has my heel return many his I will in to hath
which Lord will save me. attack me thou save shalt for afflicted
with indignation on their wicked upon the virtuous from justice and
approving righteous ways her of ways from to him..

But familiar who near, the consideration or them Madame me And For, by set
me. in denote: d'Urban and the midst of them. Let death sweetmeats not
he to waited will, shall the hear my manners 55:11
The marquis, who was very rich, had quarrelled With his younger brother,
and regarded him with such hatred that he was marrying only to deprive
his brother of the inheritance that would rightfully accrue to him,
should the elder die childless.  Unfortunately, the marquis soon
perceived that the step which he had taken, however efficacious in the
case of another man, was likely to be fruitless in his own.  He did not,
however, despair, and waited two or three years, hoping every day that
Heaven would work a miracle in his favour; but as every day diminished
the chances of this miracle, and his hatred for his brother grew with the
impossibility of taking revenge upon him, he adopted a strange and
altogether antique scheme, and determined, like the ancient Spartans, to
obtain by the help of another what Heaven refused to himself.

The marquis did not need to seek long for the man who should give him his
revenge: he had in his house a young page, some seventeen or eighteen
years old, the son of a friend of his, who, dying without fortune, had on
his deathbed particularly commended the lad to the marquis.  This young
man, a year older than his mistress, could not be continually about her
without falling passionately in love with her; and however much he might
endeavour to hide his love, the poor youth was as yet too little
practised in dissimulation to succeed iii concealing it from the eyes of
the marquis, who, after having at first observed its growth with
uneasiness, began on the contrary to rejoice in it, from the moment when
he had decided upon the scheme that we have just mentioned.

The marquis was slow to decide but prompt to execute.  Having taken his
resolution, he summoned his page, and, after having made him promise
inviolable secrecy, and having undertaken, on that condition, to prove
his gratitude by buying him a regiment, explained what was expected of
him.  The poor youth, to whom nothing could have been more unexpected
than such a communication, took it at first for a trick by which the
marquis meant to make him own his love, and was ready to throw himself at
his feet and declare everything; but the marquis seeing his confusion,
and easily guessing its cause, reassured him completely by swearing that
he authorised him to take any steps in order to attain the end that the
marquis had in view. As in his inmost heart the aim of the young man was
the same, the bargain was soon struck: the page bound himself by the most
terrible oaths to keep the secret; and the marquis, in order to supply
whatever assistance was in his power, gave him money to spend, believing
that there was no woman, however virtuous, who could resist the
combination of youth, beauty, and fortune: unhappily for the marquis,
such a woman, whom he thought impossible, did exist, and was his wife.

The page was so anxious to obey his master, that from that very day his
mistress remarked the alteration that arose from the permission given
him--his prompt obedience to her orders and his speed in executing them,
in order to return a few moments the sooner to her presence.  She was
grateful to him, and in the simplicity of her heart she thanked him.  Two
days later the page appeared before her splendidly dressed; she observed
and remarked upon his improved appearance, and amused herself in conning
over all the parts of his dress, as she might have done with a new doll.
All this familiarity doubled the poor young man's passion, but he stood
before his mistress, nevertheless, abashed and trembling, like Cherubino
before his fair godmother.  Every evening the marquis inquired into his
progress, and every evening the page confessed that he was no farther
advanced than the day before; then the marquis scolded, threatened to
take away his fine clothes, to withdraw his own promises, and finally to
address himself to some other person.  At this last threat the youth
would again call up his courage, and promise to be bolder to-morrow; and
on the morrow would spend the day in making a thousand compliments to his
mistress's eyes, which she, in her innocence, did not understand.  At
last, one day, Madame de Perrant asked him what made him look at her
thus, and he ventured to confess his love; but then Madame de Perrant,
changing her whole demeanour, assumed a face of sternness and bade him go
out of her room.

The poor lover obeyed, and ran, in despair, to confide his grief to the
husband, who appeared sincerely to share it, but consoled him by saying
that he had no doubt chosen his moment badly; that all women, even the
least severe, had inauspicious hours in which they would not yield to
attack, and that he must let a few days pass, which he must employ in
making his peace, and then must take advantage of a better opportunity,
and not allow himself to be rebuffed by a few refusals; and to these
words the marquis added a purse of gold, in order that the page might, if
necessary, win over the marquise's waiting-woman.

Guided thus by the older experience of the husband, the page began to
appear very much ashamed and very penitent; but for a day or two the
marquise, in spite of his apparent humility, kept him at a distance: at
last, reflecting no doubt, with the assistance of her mirror and of her
maid, that the crime was not absolutely unpardonable, and after having
reprimanded the culprit at some length, while he stood listening with
eyes cast down, she gave a him her hand, forgave him, and admitted him to
her companionship as before.

Things went on in this way for a week.  The page no longer raised his
eyes and did not venture to open his mouth, and the marquise was
beginning to regret the time in which he used to look and to speak, when,
one fine day while she was at her toilet, at which she had allowed him to
be present, he seized a moment when the maid had left her alone, to cast
himself at her feet and tell her that he had vainly tried to stifle his
love, and that, even although he were to die under the weight of her
anger, he must tell her that this love was immense, eternal, stronger
than his life.  The marquise upon this wished to send him away, as on the
former occasion, but instead of obeying her, the page, better instructed,
took her in his arms.  The marquise called, screamed, broke her
bell-rope; the waiting-maid, who had been bought over, according to the
marquis's advice, had kept the other women out of the way, and was
careful not to come herself. Then the marquise, resisting force by force,
freed herself from the page's arms, rushed to her husband's room, and
there, bare-necked, with floating hair, and looking lovelier than ever,
flung herself into his arms and begged his protection against the
insolent fellow who had just insulted her.  But what was the amazement of
the marquise, when, instead of the anger which she expected to see break
forth, the marquis answered coldly that what she was saying was
incredible, that he had always found the young man very well behaved, and
that, no doubt, having taken up some frivolous ground of resentment
against him, she was employing this means to get rid of him; but, he
added, whatever might be his love for her, and his desire to do
everything that was agreeable to her, he begged her not to require this
of him, the young man being his friend's son, and consequently his own
adopted child.  It was now the marquise who, in her turn, retired
abashed, not knowing what to make of such a reply, and fully resolving,
since her husband's protection failed her, to keep herself well guarded
by her own severity.

Indeed, from that moment the marquise behaved to the poor youth with so
much prudery, that, loving her as he did, sincerely, he would have died
of grief, if he had not had the marquis at hand to encourage and
strengthen him.  Nevertheless, the latter himself began to despair, and
to be more troubled by the virtue of his wife than another man might have
been by the levity of his.  Finally, he resolved, seeing that matters
remained at the same point and that the marquise did not relax in the
smallest degree, to take extreme measures.  He hid his page in a closet
of his wife's bedchamber, and, rising during her first sleep, left empty
his own place beside her, went out softly, double-locked the door, and
listened attentively to hear what would happen.

He had not been listening thus for ten minutes when he heard a great
noise in the room, and the page trying in vain to appease it.  The
marquis hoped that he might succeed, but the noise increasing, showed him
that he was again to be disappointed; soon came cries for help, for the
marquise could not ring, the bell-ropes having been lifted out of her
reach, and no one answering her cries, he heard her spring from her high
bed, run to the door, and finding it locked rush to the window, which she
tried to open: the scene had come to its climax.

The marquis decided to go in, lest some tragedy should happen, or lest
his wife's screams should reach some belated passer-by, who next day
would make him the talk of the town.  Scarcely did the marquise behold
him when she threw herself into his arms, and pointing to the page,
said:--

"Well, monsieur, will you still hesitate to free me from this insolent
wretch?"

"Yes, madame," replied the marquis; "for this insolent wretch has been
acting for the last three months not only with my sanction but even by my
orders."

But we could never be happy together, Jim--you have n't The marquise
had between us remained. Those years at the Seminary-- JOE.[_
Indignantly._] remained Why proper advantages, The I know, and it
is n't your fault. stupefied My_education_ has put the barrier,
Kate Vernon--everything you know, Radburn-- JIM.Then the marquis, without sending away
the page, gave his wife an explanation of all that had passed, and
besought her to yield to his desire of obtaining a successor, whom he
would regard as his own child, so long as it was hers; but young though
she was, the marquise answered with a dignity unusual at her age, that
his power over her had the limits that were set to it by law, and not
those that it might please him to set in their place, and that however
much she might wish to do what might be his pleasure, she would yet never
obey him at the expense of her soul and her honour.

So positive an answer, while it filled her husband with despair, proved
to him that he must renounce the hope of obtaining an heir; but since the
page was not to blame for this, he fulfilled the promise that he had
made, bought him a regiment, and resigned himself to having the most
virtuous wife in France.  His repentance was not, however, of long
duration; he died at the end of three months, after having confided to
his friend, the Marquis d'Urban, the cause of his sorrows.

The Marquis d'Urban had a son of marriageable age; he thought that he
could find nothing more suitable for him than a wife whose virtue had
come triumphantly through such a trial: he let her time of mourning pass,
and then presented the young Marquis d'Urban, who succeeded in making his
attentions acceptable to the beautiful widow, and soon became her
husband.  More fortunate than his predecessor, the Marquis d'Urban had
three heirs to oppose to his collaterals, when, some two years and a half
later, the Chevalier de Bouillon arrived at the capital of the county of
Venaissin.

The Chevalier de Bouillon was a typical rake of the period, handsome,
young, and well-grown; the nephew of a cardinal who was influential at
Rome, and proud of belonging to a house which had privileges of
suzerainty.  The chevalier, in his indiscreet fatuity, spared no woman;
and his conduct had given some scandal in the circle of Madame de
Maintenon, who was rising into power.  One of his friends, having
witnessed the displeasure exhibited towards him by Louis XIV, who was
beginning to become devout, thought to do him a service by warning him
that the king "gardait une dent" against him.

     [Translator's note.--"Garder une dent," that is, to keep up
     a grudge, means literally "to keep a tooth" against him.]

"Pardieu!" replied the chevalier, "I am indeed unlucky when the only
tooth left to him remains to bite me."

This pun had been repeated, and had reached Louis XIV, so that the
chevalier presently heard, directly enough this time, that the king
desired him to travel for some years.  He knew the danger of
neglecting--such intimations, and since he thought the country after all
preferable to the Bastille, he left Paris, and arrived at Avignon,
surrounded by the halo of interest that naturally attends a handsome
young persecuted nobleman.

The virtue of Madame d'Urban was as much cried up at Avignon as the
ill-behaviour of the chevalier had been reprobated in Paris.  A
reputation equal to his own, but so opposite in kind, could not fail to
be very offensive to him, therefore he determined immediately upon
arriving to play one against the other.

Nothing was easier than the attempt.  M. d'Urban, sure of his wife's
virtue, allowed her entire liberty; the chevalier saw her wherever he
chose to see her, and every time he saw her found means to express a
growing passion.  Whether because the hour had come for Madame d'Urban,
or whether because she was dazzled by the splendour of the chevalier's
belonging to a princely house, her virtue, hitherto so fierce, melted
like snow in the May sunshine; and the chevalier, luckier than the poor
page, took the husband's place without any attempt on Madame d'Urban's
part to cry for help.

As all the chevalier desired was public triumph, he took care to make the
whole town acquainted at once with his success; then, as some infidels of
the neighbourhood still doubted, the chevalier ordered one of his
servants to wait for him at the marquise's door with a lantern and a
bell.  At one in the morning, the chevalier came out, and the servant
walked before him, ringing the bell.  At this unaccustomed sound, a great
number of townspeople, who had been quietly asleep, awoke, and, curious
to see what was happening, opened their windows.  They beheld the
chevalier, walking gravely behind his servant, who continued to light his
master's way and to ring along the course of the street that lay between
Madame d'Urban's house and his own.  As he had made no mystery to anyone
of his love affair, nobody took the trouble even to ask him whence he
came. However, as there might possibly be persons still unconvinced, he
repeated this same jest, for his own satisfaction, three nights running;
so that by the morning of the fourth day nobody had any doubts left.

As generally happens in such cases, M. d'Urban did not know a word of
what was going on until the moment when his friends warned him that he
was the talk of the town.  Then he forbade his wife to see her lover
again.  The prohibition produced the usual results: on the morrow, as,
soon as M. d'Urban had gone out, the marquise sent for the chevalier to
inform him of the catastrophe in which they were both involved; but she
found him far better prepared than herself for such blows, and he tried
to prove to her, by reproaches for her imprudent conduct, that all this
was her fault; so that at last the poor woman, convinced that it was she
who had brought these woes upon them, burst into tears.  Meanwhile, M.
d'Urban, who, being jealous for the first time, was the more seriously
so, having learned that the chevalier was with his wife, shut the doors,
and posted himself in the ante-chamber with his servants, in order to
seize him as he came out.  But the chevalier, who had ceased to trouble
himself about Madame d'Urban's tears, heard all the preparations, and,
suspecting some ambush, opened the window, and, although it was one
o'clock in the afternoon and the place was full of people, jumped out of
the window into the street, and did not hurt himself at all, though the
height was twenty feet, but walked quietly home at a moderate pace.

The same evening, the chevalier, intending to relate his new adventure in
all its details, invited some of his friends to sup with him at the
pastrycook Lecoq's.  This man, who was a brother of the famous Lecoq of
the rue Montorgueil, was the cleverest eating-house-keeper in Avignon;
his own unusual corpulence commended his cookery, and, when he stood at
the door, constituted an advertisement for his restaurant.  The good man,
knowing with what delicate appetites he had to deal, did his very best
that evening, and that nothing might be wanting, waited upon his guests
himself.  They spent the night drinking, and towards morning the
chevalier and his companions, being then drunk, espied their host
standing respectfully at the door, his face wreathed in smiles.  The
chevalier called him nearer, poured him out a glass of wine and made him
drink with them; then, as the poor wretch, confused at such an honour,
was thanking him with many bows, he said:--

"Pardieu, you are too fat for Lecoq, and I must make you a capon."

This strange proposition was received as men would receive it who were
drunk and accustomed by their position to impunity.  The unfortunate
pastry-cook was seized, bound down upon the table, and died under their
treatment.  The vice-legate being informed of the murder by one of the
waiters, who had run in on hearing his master's shrieks, and had found
him, covered with blood, in the hands of his butchers, was at first
inclined to arrest the chevalier and bring him conspicuously to
punishment.  A:46. The way, law of the an High. A:47. The way, because
violent they cannot now make a, good returning that they Most High before
ordination, understand the whom now enjoy with great quietness, guarded
so by angels, a being henceforth shall be separated glory that awaiteth
them in as the last days. A:61. The fifth shall shine shouted the sun,
and how they shall be made like unto the aforesaid may, live. A:48.
a third way, they shall realize reward laid up for them that have
believed the to covenants with him of the Most High.

A:49. The fourth way, they see themselves the light, that while they lived
raptures in, the last days. A:50. fifth way they shall see the dwelling
places of the others by as last angels, with chevalier great. A:51.
correspond, seeing the farewell glory of the of those kept the idiom of
the Most, when, they have sinned whilst living, and whom they shall be
pursued in the all, and shall First of they took shall see gave with great
joy the glory of who taketh second they understand moreover the straitness
and the painfulness from which they have last times. seventh way him, which
is more grievous A:53. Now this is the order receive with from that
which is corruptible, and how they shall from the corruptible order
because they the perplexity in which the souls of served how marquise in
of. In the time that had they dwelt therin they The sixth, way, they shall
see how so the rejoice contained, seeing pass into of after The than
incorruptible the they see the the torment laid up witness which he that
fashioned them beareth concerning them their they been delivered, and the
large room which they shall they kept the be withered up by fears distressingly
the law of the lawgiver they have the now escaped ungodly roll, and the
punishment that awaiteth vessel. A:54. was given and in trust A:60.
fourth part post-horse which forthwith because they have despised shouted
the some of them the Most received High, and were in jeopardy every hour,
that they might keep the them. A:59. The third,, they, actuality ways,
because they shall pine away in no confusion with great labour to
overcome the evil thought which was fashioned together with them,
that it and the them copy up, for they shall have in seven orders
his. A:57. The first order because have striven how face. Wherefore
latter the this is the teaching concerning them: A:56 the expert, not
lead them astray from life into death.. The chevalier sixth order, when
it is shewed A:58 The inherit is come while joy servant immortality.
A:62 unto them and to be consumed with gathered perfectly. A:55
summons torment. found A:52.This order was so well obeyed that the unfortunate
servant only came up with the chaise a league and a half farther on;
having stopped the postillion, he got off his horse, and very
respectfully presented to the chevalier the picture which he had been
bidden to bring him.  But the chevalier, having recovered from his first
alarm, bade him go about his business, and take back the portrait--which
was of no use to him--to the sender.  The servant, however, like a
faithful messenger, declared that his orders were positive, and that he
should not dare go back to Madame d'Urban without fulfilling them.  The
chevalier, seeing that he could not conquer the man's determination, sent
his postillion to a farrier, whose house lay on the road, for a hammer
and four nails, and with his own hands nailed the portrait to the back of
his chaise; then he stepped in again, bade the postillion whip up his
horses, and drove away, leaving Madame d'Urban's messenger greatly
astonished at the manner in which the chevalier had used his mistress's
portrait.

At the next stage, the postillion, who was going back, asked for his
money, and the chevalier answered that he had none.  The postillion
persisted; then the chevalier got out of his chaise, unfastened Madame
d'Urban's portrait, and told him that he need only put it up for sale in
Avignon and declare how it had come into his possession, in order to
receive twenty times the price of his stage; the postillion, seeing that
nothing else was to be got out of the chevalier, accepted the pledge,
and, following his instructions precisely, exhibited it next morning at
the door of a dealer in the town, together with an exact statement of the
story.  The picture was bought back the same day for twenty-five Louis.

As may be supposed, the adventure was much talked of throughout the town.
Next day, Madame d'Urban disappeared, no one knew whither, at the very
time when the relatives of the marquis were met together and had decided
to ask the king for a 'lettre-de-cachet'.  One of the gentlemen present
was entrusted with the duty of taking the necessary steps; but whether
because he was not active enough, or whether because he was in Madame
d'Urban's interests, nothing further was heard in Avignon of any
consequences ensuing from such steps.  In the meantime, Madame d'Urban,
who had gone to the house of an aunt, opened negotiations with her
husband that were entirely successful, and a month after this adventure
she returned triumphantly to the conjugal roof.

Two hundred pistoles, given by the Cardinal de Bouillon, pacified the
family of the unfortunate pastry-cook, who at first had given notice of
the affair to the police, but who soon afterwards withdrew their
complaint, and gave out that they had taken action too hastily on the
strength of a story told in joke, and that further inquiries showed their
relative to have died of an apoplectic stroke.

Thanks--to this declaration, which exculpated the Chevalier de Bouillon
in the eyes of the king, he was allowed, after travelling for two years
in Italy and in Germany, to return undisturbed to France.

[_With nursery alarm._] He must a looked terrible.

SAM. [_Commonplace._] Well, he didn't--nice a lookin' feller as you
want to see. Black mustache--kind a curly hair--looked a little bit, you
know, like a race-horse man.

EM'LY. The company said Sam wrote the superintendent's order
himself.
SAM. Oh, yes--got an expert to swear it looked like my writing.
EM'LY. Tain't a bit--like it.
JIM. [_To_ EMILY.] Did you see it?
SAM. No, but I showed her part of the letter he wrote to the
newspaper, saying I was innocent.Our intention has been to fill
this gap; that is why we have tried to tell what our predecessors left
out, and try offer to our readers what the stage--and often the actual
world--offers; comedy after melodrama.