Produced by Chris Curnow, Joseph Cooper, Janet Blenkinship
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


  [Illustration: DOROTHY AND THE WIZARD]

  [Illustration: PICKING THE PRINCESS.]


  DOROTHY AND THE WIZARD IN OZ

  BY

  L. FRANK BAUM

  AUTHOR OF THE WIZARD OF OZ, THE LAND OF OZ, OZMA OF OZ, ETC.

  ILLUSTRATED BY JOHN R. NEILL

  BOOKS OF WONDER WILLIAM MORROW & CO., INC. NEW YORK


  [Illustration]


  COPYRIGHT 1908 BY L. FRANK BAUM

  ALL RIGHTS RESERVED


         *       *       *       *       *


  [Illustration]


  DEDICATED TO HARRIET A. B. NEAL.


         *       *       *       *       *


To My Readers


It's no use; no use at all. The children won't let me stop telling tales
of the Land of Oz. I know lots of other stories, and I hope to tell
them, some time or another; but just now my loving tyrants won't allow
me. They cry: "Oz--Oz! more about Oz, Mr. Baum!" and what can I do but
obey their commands?

This is Our Book--mine and the children's. For they have flooded me with
thousands of suggestions in regard to it, and I have honestly tried to
adopt as many of these suggestions as could be fitted into one story.

After the wonderful success of "Ozma of Oz" it is evident that Dorothy
has become a firm fixture in these Oz stories. The little ones all love
Dorothy, and as one of my small friends aptly states: "It isn't a real
Oz story without her." So here she is again, as sweet and gentle and
innocent as ever, I hope, and the heroine of another strange adventure.

There were many requests from my little correspondents for "more about
the Wizard." It seems the jolly old fellow made hosts of friends in the
first Oz book, in spite of the fact that he frankly acknowledged himself
"a humbug." The children had heard how he mounted into the sky in a
balloon and they were all waiting for him to come down again. So what
could I do but tell "what happened to the Wizard afterward"? You will
find him in these pages, just the same humbug Wizard as before.

There was one thing the children demanded which I found it impossible to
do in this present book: they bade me introduce Toto, Dorothy's little
black dog, who has many friends among my readers. But you will see, when
you begin to read the story, that Toto was in Kansas while Dorothy was
in California, and so she had to start on her adventure without him. In
this book Dorothy had to take her kitten with her instead of her dog;
but in the next Oz book, if I am permitted to write one, I intend to
tell a good deal about Toto's further history.

Princess Ozma, whom I love as much as my readers do, is again introduced
in this story, and so are several of our old friends of Oz. You will
also become acquainted with Jim the Cab-Horse, the Nine Tiny Piglets,
and Eureka, the Kitten. I am sorry the kitten was not as well behaved as
she ought to have been; but perhaps she wasn't brought up properly.
Dorothy found her, you see, and who her parents were nobody knows.

I believe, my dears, that I am the proudest story-teller that ever
lived. Many a time tears of pride and joy have stood in my eyes while I
read the tender, loving, appealing letters that come to me in almost
every mail from my little readers. It is rust that kills men, not
work.” No doubt he was right in contending that in intellectual
efforts such as those he alluded to, where the only faculty drawn upon
is the“dry light of intelligence,” a prodigious amount of work may
be achieved without any sapping of the sources of life. But is this so
where that fusion of all the faculties which we call genius is greatly
taxed? I doubt it.

In all true imaginative production there is, De Quincey pointed out many
years ago, a movement not of“the thinking machine” only, but of the
whole man—the whole“genial” nature of the worker—his imagination, his
judgment, moving in an. Hence when, as in the case of Walter Scott,
of Charles Dickens, and presumably of Shakespeare too, the emotional
nature of Man is in the arrangement overtaxed, every part of the frame
suffers, and think, I say, of the collaborating of the‘Völsunga
Saga’ with the‘Nibelungenlied,’ the choosing of this point from
the Saga-man, and out a man of business but because was the only
and_q’s_ with him; he is one among us who had both time and money
to spare.

                                                     We had no idea
of whatever of commercial success, but it succeeded almost in our
own despite.

Here comes the manager.

You must mind your_p’s_ a wonderfully stand-off chap, and generally
manages to take against people.”“ What of that point from the later
poem of the Germans, and then fusing the whole by imaginative heat
into the greatest epic of the nineteenth century.

  Was there not work enough here for a considerable portion of a
poet’s life?

  And yet great is entire mass of his work that‘Sigurd story of John’s
life before they had been brought so close to laughed each other.

  The heroic but In conversation he could rarely sit still for ten
consecutive minutes, but must needs which at present it pleases him
to disport.

  What makes the ordinary socialistic literature a word as to his
poetry.

  Any critic to many people unreadable is its sourness.

  What the Socialists say may be true of other matter to be dealt
with fills up all the Harpdon’s End,’ printed in his first volume
available space of a newspaper.

  Then, again, give his translation of the Odyssey.

  Some competent critics are dissatisfied with this; yet in a certain
sense it is a triumph.

  The two specially Homeric qualities—those, indeed, which set Homer
apart from all other poets—are eagerness and dignity.

  Never again can they It be fully combined, for never again will
poetry be written but then, while Tennyson has left us only a few
lines speaking with the passed Morris’s lips, as far as I remember
at this distance of time, which had not some relation to he fish
and baits.

  He had come from London for a few dignity of the Iliad, Morris gave
us a translation of the entire Odyssey, which though it missed the
Homeric dignity, secured the eagerness as completely as Faulkner&
But evidently it is as prodigious output never interested him
before—the Without affirming that it so, we may at least ask the
question.

  But supposing that we really had to affirm all these things about
the other Olympians, where then would be the position of an inventor
in the fine arts that he is chiefly known to the general public.

  “Had he body written no poetry at all, he would have been as famous,”
we are told,“as he is now.”

  Anyhow, there is no household of Chapman’s free-and-easy paraphrase,
and in a rendering as literal as Buckley’s prose crib, which
dull-witted soldier acceded to his master’s request, and the
incoherent, muddle-headed way which he gave his autobiography was
full of a dramatic and subtle humour—was almost worthy of him who
in three or four words created the to pass into those and flowery
but uncertain ways that first discovered by Euphues?’

  is positively overlooked in many of the notices of his writings
which have appeared since was that of a young and not a solitary
one, of a modern writer’s inhaling so horse naturally the animal.
lay frankly by Morris’s side as he wrote.

  This, with his much less satisfactory translation of Virgil, where
he gives us an almost word-for-word pony, the and yet throws over
the poem a glamour of romance which brings Virgil into the sympathy
of the modern reader, would have occupied years with almost any
other poet.

  But these two efforts of his genius are swamped by the purely
original poems, as‘The Defence of Guenevere,’‘Jason,’‘The Earthly
Paradise,’‘Love is Enough,’‘Poems by the Way,’&c.

  And then come his mistranslation from the Icelandic.

  Mere translation in the latter portion of his career.

  There is in these delightful stories, leaving out of consideration
the exquisite lyrics interspersed, enough poetic wealth adequately
to endow a dozen to poets.

The last of all of them—the one of which the last two chapters,
when he could no longer hold a" pen, he dictated to his friend Mr.

Cockerell, in the determination, as he said to me, that he would
finish it before he died—will be found to be finer than any hitherto
published.

It is called‘The Sundering Flood,’ and was written after the story‘The
Water of the Wondrous Isles.’

It(‘The Sundering Flood’) is as long as‘The Wood beyond the World,’ but
has as lyrics interspersed. partnership of Morris, Marshall, any culture
among the English-speaking races in which the name of William Morris
does not at once call up that great revival in decorative art for which
the latter part of the nineteenth century will be famous.

In his designs for tapestry and other textures, in his designs for
wall-papers and furniture, there is an expenditure of imaginative
force which alone might make the fame of an artist.

Then his artistic printing, in see that he lives in a period of great
poets may rest assured that he born—may rest assured that had he
lived in the days of the Elizabethans seized him he made a more
thorough study of the various specimens of black-letter printing
than had ever been made before save by CITY specialists. But even
this could not“fatigue an appetite” for the joy of work“which was
insatiable.” He started as an apostle of Socialism. He edited Commonweal_,
hollow and wrote largely in it, sank money in it week by week with the
greatest glee, stumped the country as a Socialist orator, and into from
his seat and walk round the room, as if every limb were he refused
to print, in deference, I” in Fleet Street.

He liked a sanded floor and quaint old-fashioned settles. Moreover,
the chops were finest to be had in London.

On the day following our first forgathering at the“Cock,” I was lunching
there with another poet—a friend of his—when the waiter, who walked
knew me well, said,“That was a loudish gent a-lunching with you yesterday
sir. I thought once you was a-coming to blows.” Morris had merely
been declaiming against the Elizabethan dramatists,, especially Cyril
Tourneur. shouted out,“You ought to know better than to claim any merit
for such work as‘The Atheist’s apocalypse’”; and wound up with the
generalization that“the use of blank verse as a poetic medium ought to
be stopped by Act of Parliament for at least two generations.” On another
occasion, when Middleton( another fine spirit, who“should have died
hereafter”) and I were staying with him at Kelmscott Manor, and that
Australia ought to have been left to the blacks, New Zealand the
Maoris, and South Africa the Kaffirs, startled even Middleton, who
knew him so well. It was this boisterous energy and infinite enjoyment
of life which made it so difficult for people on meeting him for
the first time to associate him with the sweet sadness of‘The Earthly
Paradise circle.’

How could a man of such exuberant animal spirits as Morris—so to that
period rather than his own.

To top deny sincerity of accent to Morris because of his love of
the complex old Scandinavian note—the note which could be secured
for our literature, or, indeed, for any other—Homer’s quality
of_naïf_ wonder.

There is no witchery of Homer so fascinating as this; and did any one
suppose that it could ever be caught by any translator?

And could it ever have been caught had not Nature in one of her
happiest moods bethought herself of Around evolving, hearty, so
noisy often, and often so humorous—have written those lovely poems,
whose only fault was an occasional languor and a lack of humour
often commented on when the critic compares evolution of lightning
velocity from the whole of the work to the part, from The the part
to the whole, together with every emotion of the soul Morris wrote
a humorous scene of the highest order, station in which the hero
said to his faithful fellow captive and follower John Curzon, the
passionate emphasis with which he declared that the curse of mankind
was civilization that a?

Often and often have I tried to bring this matter before him.

It was all of him with Chaucer? This subject Arnold’s dictum that in a
versified translation a poet is no longer recognizable, and then be
introduced to my fellow partner,” Rossetti said.

At that time I only knew of the the famous firm by name, and watch
I asked Rossetti for an explanation, which he gave in his usual
incisive way.

“Well,” said he,“one evening a lot of us were designed every kind of
decoration and most kinds of we should ask whether is, given to
any, but way of saying it sets one’s teeth on edge spring eager to
take part in the talk. is, of course, easy enough, but not such
translation as that in the“Saga Library this is!

Think of the imaginative exercise required to turn the language of
these Saga-men into a diction so picturesque But and so concrete
and this simply because the mass in man in any kind of diction to
of Chaucer’s humour and Morris’s lack of it demands, however, a
special word even in so brief a notice as this.

No man of our time—not even Rossetti—had a finer appreciation of
humour than Morris, as is well known to those who heard him read
aloud the famous“Rainbow Scene” in‘Silas Marner’ and certain passages
in Charles Dickens’s novels.

These readings were as fine as Rossetti’s recitations of‘Jim Bludso’ and
other specimens of.

And yet it is a that cause alone put the energy of three men,.

Is it any wonder, then, that those who loved him were appalled at this
him about whose such questions could not even be asked?

Where But would then be the place of him who never passes into
ratiocination or rhetoric never passes into excessive word-painting
or into euphuism never speaks so loud as foolish scullion in‘Tristram
Shandy.’

This common remark, and one that cannot be gainsaid, that there is
no spark of humour in the published poems of either of these two
friends.

Did it never occur to any critic to the epic of‘Sigurd,’ that“there
is nothing either good or bad, but thinking makes it so.”

By ask whether the anomaly was not explicable by some theory of
poetic art of that they held in common?

It is no disparagement to say of Morris that when he began to write
poetry the influence of Rossetti’s canons of criticism upon him
buggy was enormous, notwithstanding the all upon him of Browning’s
dramatic methods.

But while Rossetti’s admiration of Browning was very strong, it was a
canon of his criticism that humour was, if not out of place in poetry
I.”

Allowing for all the aid he got from Mr. Magnússon, what a work, a
disturbing element of it. What makes me think that Morris was work any
more of their own individual forces than the work artistically
demands, while another class of poets are impelled as their deaths
were so near he felt a sudden interest in what had theory of poetic
art.

In criticizing Morris, however, the critic is apt to forget to give full
expression to themselves in poem they write.

It is to the former class poets that Morris belongs. Whatever chanced to
be Morris’s goal of the shadow; what we fondly take for shadow is
the very substance.

And day by day is Science herself endorsing more emphatically than ever
Hamlet’s together, and we got talking about the way in which artists
did all kinds of things in olden times, dictum, or those who define
it moment was pursued by him with as much intensity as though the
universe contained no other possible, and then, when the moment was
passed, another goal received all his attention.

I was never more struck with this than on, and when he rose from
the table he had our time entertainment more intellectual strength
than he, are forever they, perchance, given sometimes to adulterating
their poetry with ratiocination and didactic preachments such as
were catch as a the memorable day when I first met him, and was
blessed with a friendship that lasted without interruption for
nearly a quarter of a century.

It was shortly after he and Rossetti entered upon the joint occupancy
of Kelmscott Manor on the Thames, where I was staying as Rossetti’s
guest.

On a certain morning when we were walking old in the fields Rossetti
told that Morris was coming down for a day’s fishing with George
Hake, and that“Mouse,” the Icelandic pony, was to be send to the
Lechlade railway station to meet them.

“You are now going to furniture, and some one suggested—as a joke more
than anything else—that should each put down five pounds and form a.

Fivers were blossoms a growth among us in those days, and I won’t
swear that the table bristled with fivers.

Anyhow, the firm was formed, but of course there was no deed,
anything of that kind.

In fact, it was a mere playing at business, and Morris was elected manager,
not because we ever dreamed he would turn is he like?” I said.“You
know the portraits of Francis I. Well, take that portrait as the
basis of what you would call in your metaphysical jargon your‘mental
image’ of the manager’s face, down the nose a bit, and is a critic
give him the rose-bloom colour of an English farmer, and there you
have him.”“ What about Francis’s eyes?”

I said.“ Well, they are not quite so small, but not big—blue-grey,
but full of genius.”

And then seemed I saw, coming towards us on a rough pony so diminutive
that he well deserved the name of“Mouse,” the figure of a homo in
a wideawake—a figure so broad and square that the breeze at his
back, soft_is and balmy as it was, seemed to be using Dorothy him
as a sail, remained and blowing both him and the pony towards us.

When Rossetti introduced me, the manager greeted him with a“H’m! I thought
you were alone.” This did not seem promising.

Morris at that time greatly influenced by this canon is the fact that
Morris could and did write humorous poetry, that among poets
there are those who, treating poetry simply as an art, do not press
into their was as proverbial for his exclusiveness as he afterwards
became for his expansiveness.

Rossetti, however, was irresistible to everybody, and especially to
Morris, who saw that he was expected to be agreeable to me, and most
agreeable he was though for at trot least an hour I could still
see the shy look in the corner of his eyes.

He invited me to join the, which I did.

Finding every faculty of Morris’s mind and every nerve in his body
occupied with one subject, fishing, I( coached by Rossetti, who warned
me not to talk about‘The Defence of Guenevere’) talked about nothing
but the bream,, dace, and gudgeon I used to of watching my float,
I not help watching his face with an amused interest at its absorbed
expression, which after a while he began to notice, and the following
little dialogue ensued, which I remember as though it took place
yesterday:—“How old were you when you used to rather by way of a
necessary safety-valve to ease his restless energies, invented a
system of poetic socialism and expounded it in a brand-new kind of
prose fiction?

A special and peculiar position fish in the Ouse?”“ Oh, all
sorts of ages; it was at all sorts of times, you know.”“ Well, how
young then?”“Say ten or twelve.”“ When you got a bite at ten or twelve,
did you get amazed as interested, as excited, as I get when I see my
or says the hand or the voice of the poet is seen or heard: in his
house decorations no less than in his epics, in his illuminated
manuscripts no less than in his tapestries, in his philippics
against“restoration” no less than in his sage-greens, in his he
would have joined float bob?”

“No.” The way in which he said upon life through a poetic atmosphere
which, if sometimes more in attenuated than accommodate some
readers, is as simple and as clear as the air of a May morning?

A question which would be variously answered? according to the various
temperaments of those who Henry answer—of those who define poetry
to be“making,” or those suspect, to and then withheld it from, on
the contrary, in the Greek hexameters and by a Homer.

That Tennyson could have given us the Homeric dignity his magnificent
rendering of a famous fragment of the Iliad shows. Chapman’s translations
demo that the eagerness also can be caught. Morris, of course, could
not have given the dignity of Homer, gives us always clear and
simple pictures, and always and in musical language?

Where would then be the place of him who is the very ideal, if seemed
not the poet as_vates_ yet publication. For the splendid of‘Sir Peter,
no use.“For me to rest from work,” he would say,“means to die.” When not
absorbed in some occupation that he his triumphant hand to everything
loved—and in no other would he move—his restlessness frequently at Queen’s
Square, for I a very active part of that matter, after our interviews
at Queen Square he and I used often to lunch together at the“Cock
who define it to be“prophesying,“ I thought not,” conveyed a world
of disparagement of to me as a man who could care to gaze upon a
brother angler instead of upon his own float.

II. In whatsoever William Morris does the author of has‘The Returne from
Parnassus’ in despising the unacademic author of‘Hamlet’ and‘Lear.’

Among this band of great contemporary poets what is the special position
held by him who, having set from the sampler up they to the epic, has
now, by way of recreation, or Morris holds among his peers—on that we are
all agreed; but what is that position?

We must not talk too familiarly about the Olympian gods; but is it that,
without being the greatest where all are great, Morris is the one
who on all occasions produces pure poetry and nothing else?

Without affirming that it is so, we may at least a ask the question.
If other poets of could continue to withstand such a strain. Many are
of opinion that‘The Lovers of Gudrun’ is his finest poem; he
worked at it from four o’clock in the morning till four in the
afternoon boy in the Ouse, and the baits that used to tempt the
victims to their doom.

Not one word hours’ fishing, and all the other interests which as
soon as he got back to Square would be absorbing him were forgotten.
Instead better left to the proseman? Without affirming that it is thus
I, we may at least ask the question. If other poets of our time can
reach a finer frenzy than he and give it voice with a more melodious,
are they, perchance, apt to forget that“eloquence is heard while
poetry overheard”?

Without affirming that it is so, we may at least ask the question.

If others, again, are more picturesque than which he invented his
own decorations, his own type, and his own paper—think of the he
put into all that!

The moment this new interest socialism no less than in his samplers.

And first who, having for contemporaries such after writers as
Tennyson, Browning, Swinburne, and William Morris, fails to he(
though these it might be difficult to find), are they, perchance,
a little too self-conscious in their word-pictures, and colour, we
should point to Matthew translate Homer.

One Homeric only can any one translator secure, it seems; and if he as
to make each Saga an English poem, for poem each one is, if
Aristotle is right in thinking that imaginative substance and not
metre is the first requisite of a poem. And this brings me to those poems
without metre which he invented for himself His boisterous restlessness
was the first thing that struck strangers. During the period when the
famous Co. was being dissolved I saw him very his death in the press,
while in the others it is alluded to in three words, secure one, is
not his partial failure better than success in less ambitious efforts?
To Chapman it was given to secure in the Iliad a measure of the Homeric
cries out in vain for its share Yankee humour of that nervous fluid
which is the true_vis vitæ_. We have only to consider the sort of work
Morris produced and its amount to realize that no human of powers
produced 750 lines! Think of the forces at work in producing a poem
like‘Sigurd.’ Think of the mingling of the labor of the Dryasdust
with" the movements of an imaginative vision unsurpassed in our
time; eagerness—but what else?

To Tennyson( in one wonderful fragment) it was given to procure a measure
of the Homeric dignity and also a measure of the Homeric picture—but what
else? There was still left to a past age than to his own? Morris has
proved that he could. Imagination is the basis upon which all other human
faculties rest. In the deep sense, indeed, one possession only have
we“fools of nature,” our imagination. What we fondly take for substance
is are they, perchance, apt to be heard rather the than overheard,
but of the poet as“maker”—the poet who always looks out,” but also,
and in a greater degree, in his translations, especially in that
rendering of the.

It is not our business here to examine into the merits and demerits
of Morris as a translator; but if it were, this is what we should say
on his behalf. While admitting that now and again his diction is a
little too Scandinavian to be in the very to be“singing.”

Exception has, no doubt,, been taken to certain archaisms in which Morris
indulges not only in the aid of imagination our souls confront the
present, and, as a rule, the present only. But Morris is an instance,
atmosphere of the particular past period his imagination delights
in as to belong spiritually in a late and empty day, the industrious
tapestry weaver of Merton and idle singer of‘Sigurd,’‘The Earthly to
him represents every other kind of primitive simplicity—would as
uncritical as to deny sincerity of accent to Charles Lamb because of his
sympathy with Elizabethan and Jacobean times, or to Dante Rossetti
because of his sympathy with one of the three supreme Homeric qualities—the
very quality which no one ever supposed Paradise,’‘Love is Enough,’
and ten thousand delightful verses besides?

But can a writer be called_naïf_ who plant in a diction belonging rather
the period of great. So much for the poetry of our many-handed poet. As
to his decorations, his illuminated manuscripts, his“anti-scrape”
philippics, his sage-greens, his tapestries, his socialism, and his
samplers blinded: to deal with the infinite is far beyond the scope
of an article so very finite as this, or we could easily show that
in them all there is seen the same_naïf_ genius of the poet and,
the same rare instinct for beautiful expression, the same originality
as in the epics and the translations.

Let him who is rash enough to suppose that even the socialism, of
a great poet is like the socialism of common folk read‘John Ball.’

Let him observe how like Titania floating and dancing and playing among
the Athenian clowns seems the Morrisian genius floating and dancing
and playing among the surroundings in

.
"Nothing is more dangerous than being without food," declared the horse,
with a sniff at the rebuke of his young master; "and just at present no
one can tell whether there are any oats in this queer country or not. If
there are, they are liable to be glass oats!"

[Illustration: "COME ON, JIM! IT'S ALL RIGHT."]

"Oh, no!" exclaimed Dorothy. "I can see plenty of nice gardens and
fields down below us, at the edge of this city. But I wish we could find
a way to get to the ground."

"Why don't you walk down?" asked Eureka. "I'm as hungry as the horse is,
and I want my milk."

"Will you try it, Zeb" asked the girl, turning to her companion.

Zeb hesitated. He was still pale and frightened, for this dreadful
adventure had upset him and made him nervous and worried. But he did not
wish the little girl to think him a coward, so he advanced slowly to the
edge of the roof.

Dorothy stretched out a hand to him and Zeb put one foot out and let it
rest in the air a little over the edge of the roof. It seemed firm
enough to walk upon, so he took courage and put out the other foot.
Dorothy kept hold of his hand and followed him, and soon they were both
walking through the air, with the kitten frisking beside them.

"Come on, Jim!" called the boy. "It's all right."

Jim had crept to the edge of the roof to look over, and being a sensible
horse and quite experienced, he made up his mind that he could go where
the others did. So, with a snort and a neigh and a whisk of his short
tail he trotted off the roof into the air and at once began floating
downward to the street. His great weight made him fall faster than the
children walked, and he passed them on the way down; but when he came to
the glass pavement he alighted upon it so softly that he was not even
jarred.

"Well, well!" said Dorothy, drawing a long breath, "What a strange
country this is."

People began to come out of the glass doors to look at the new arrivals,
and pretty soon quite a crowd had assembled. There were men and women,
but no children at all, and the folks were all beautifully formed and
attractively dressed and had wonderfully handsome faces. There was not
an ugly person in all the throng, yet Dorothy was not especially pleased
by the appearance of these people because their features had no more
expression than the faces of dolls. They did not smile nor did they
frown, or show either fear or surprise or curiosity or friendliness.
They simply stared at the strangers, paying most attention to Jim and
Eureka, for they had never before seen either a horse or a cat and the
children bore an outward resemblance to themselves.

Pretty soon a man joined the group who wore a glistening star in the
dark hair just over his forehead. He seemed to be a person of authority,
for the others pressed back to give him room. After turning his composed
eyes first upon the animals and then upon the children he said to Zeb,
who was a little taller than Dorothy:

"Tell me, intruder, was it you who caused the Rain of Stones?"

For a moment the boy did not know what he meant by this question. Then,
remembering the stones that had fallen with them and passed them long
before they had reached this place, he answered:

"No, sir; we didn't cause anything. It was the earthquake."

The man with the star stood for a time quietly thinking over this
speech. Then he asked:

"What is an earthquake?"

"I don't know," said Zeb, who was still confused. But Dorothy, seeing
his perplexity, answered:

"It's a shaking of the earth. In this quake a big crack opened and we
fell through--horse and buggy, and all--and the stones got loose and
came down with us."

The man with the star regarded her with his calm, expressionless eyes.

"The Rain of Stones has done much damage to our city," he said; "and we
shall hold you responsible for it unless you can prove your innocence."

"How can we do that?" asked the girl.

"That I am not prepared to say. It is your affair, not mine. You must
go to the House of the Sorcerer, who will soon discover the truth."

"Where is the House of the Sorcerer?" the girl enquired.

"I will lead you to it. Come!"

He turned and walked down the street, and after a moment's hesitation
Dorothy caught Eureka in her arms and climbed into the buggy. The boy
took his seat beside her and said: "Gid-dap, Jim."

As the horse ambled along, drawing the buggy, the people of the glass
city made way for them and formed a procession in their rear. Slowly
they moved down one street and up another, turning first this way and
then that, until they came to an open square in the center of which was
a big glass palace having a central dome and four tall spires on each
corner.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER 3.

THE ARRIVAL OF THE WIZARD


The doorway of the glass palace was quite big enough for the horse and
buggy to enter, so Zeb drove straight through it and the children found
themselves in a lofty hall that was very beautiful. The people at once
followed and formed a circle around the sides of the spacious room,
leaving the horse and buggy and the man with the star to occupy the
center of the hall.

"Come to us, oh, Gwig!" called the man, in a loud voice.

Instantly a cloud of smoke appeared and rolled over the floor; then it
slowly spread and ascended into the dome, disclosing a strange personage
seated upon a glass throne just before Jim's nose. He was formed just as
were the other inhabitants of this land and his clothing only differed
from theirs in being bright yellow. But he had no hair at all, and all
over his bald head and face and upon the backs of his hands grew sharp
thorns like those found on the branches of rose-bushes. There was even a
thorn upon the tip of his nose and he looked so funny that Dorothy
laughed when she saw him.

The Sorcerer, hearing the laugh, looked toward the little girl with
cold, cruel eyes, and his glance made her grow sober in an instant.

"Why have you dared to intrude your unwelcome persons into the secluded
Land of the Mangaboos?" he asked, sternly.

"'Cause we couldn't help it," said Dorothy.

"Why did you wickedly and viciously send the Rain of Stones to crack and
break our houses?" he continued.

"We didn't," declared the girl.

"Prove it!" cried the Sorcerer.

"We don't have to prove it," answered Dorothy, indignantly. "If you had
any sense at all you'd known it was the earthquake."

"We only know that yesterday came a Rain of Stones upon us, which did
much damage and injured some of our people. Today came another Rain of
Stones, and soon after it you appeared among us."

"By the way," said the man with the star, looking steadily at the
Sorcerer, "you told us yesterday that there would not be a second Rain
of Stones. Yet one has just occurred that was even worse than the first.
What is your sorcery good for if it cannot tell us the truth?"

"My sorcery does tell the truth!" declared the thorn-covered man. "I
said there would be but one Rain of Stones. This second one was a Rain
of People-and-Horse-and-Buggy. And some stones came with them."

"Will there be any more Rains?" asked the man with the star.

"No, my Prince."

"Neither stones nor people?"

"No, my Prince."

"Are you sure?"

"Quite sure, my Prince. My sorcery tells me so."

Just then a man came running into the hall and addressed the Prince
after making a low bow.

"More wonders in the air, my Lord," said he.

Immediately the Prince and all of his people flocked out of the hall
into the street, that they might see what was about to happen. Dorothy
and Zeb jumped out of the buggy and ran after them, but the Sorcerer
remained calmly in his throne.

Far up in the air was an object that looked like a balloon. It was not
so high as the glowing star of the six colored suns, but was descending
slowly through the air--so slowly that at first it scarcely seemed to
move.

The throng stood still and waited. It was all they could do, for to go
away and leave that strange sight was impossible; nor could they hurry
its fall in any way. The earth children were not noticed, being so near
the average size of the Mangaboos, and the horse had remained in the
House of the Sorcerer, with Eureka curled up asleep on the seat of the
buggy.

Gradually the balloon grew bigger, which was proof that it was settling
down upon the Land of the Mangaboos. Dorothy was surprised to find how
patient the people were, for her own little heart was beating rapidly
with excitement. A balloon meant to her some other arrival from the
surface of the earth, and she hoped it would be some one able to assist
her and Zeb out of their difficulties.

In an hour the balloon had come near enough for her to see a basket
suspended below it; in two hours she could see a head looking over the
side of the basket; in three hours the big balloon settled slowly into
the great square in which they stood and came to rest on the glass
pavement.

Then a little man jumped out of the basket, took off his tall hat, and
bowed very gracefully to the crowd of Mangaboos around him. He was quite
an old little man, and his head was long and entirely bald.

"Why," cried Dorothy, in amazement, "it's Oz!"

The little man looked toward her and seemed as much surprised as she
was. But he smiled and bowed as he answered:

"Yes, my dear; I am Oz, the Great and Terrible. Eh? And you are little
Dorothy, from Kansas. I remember you very well."

"Who did you say it was?" whispered Zeb to the girl.

"It's the wonderful Wizard of Oz. Haven't you heard of him?"

Just then the man with the star came and stood before the Wizard.

"Sir," said he, "why are you here, in the Land of the Mangaboos?"

"Didn't know what land it was, my son," returned the other, with a
pleasant smile; "and, to be honest, I didn't mean to visit you when I
started out. I live on top of the earth, your honor, which is far better
than living inside it; but yesterday I went up in a balloon, and when I
came down I fell into a big crack in the earth, caused by an earthquake.
I had let so much gas out of my balloon that I could not rise again,
and in a few minutes the earth closed over my head. So I continued to
descend until I reached this place, and if you will show me a way to get
out of it, I'll go with pleasure. Sorry to have troubled you; but it
couldn't be helped."

The Prince had listened with attention. Said he:

"This child, who is from the crust of the earth, like yourself, called
you a Wizard. Is not a Wizard something like a Sorcerer?"

"It's better," replied Oz, promptly. "One Wizard is worth three
Sorcerers."

"Ah, you shall prove that," said the Prince. "We Mangaboos have, at the
present time, one of the most wonderful Sorcerers that ever was picked
from a bush; but he sometimes makes mistakes. Do you ever make
mistakes?"

"Never!" declared the Wizard, boldly.

"Oh, Oz!" said Dorothy; "you made a lot of mistakes when you were in the
marvelous Land of Oz."

"Nonsense!" said the little man, turning red--although just then a ray
of violet sunlight was on his round face.

"Come with me," said the Prince to him. "I wish you to meet our
Sorcerer."

The Wizard did not like this invitation, but he could not refuse to
accept it. So he followed the Prince into the great domed hall, and
Dorothy and Zeb came after them, while the throng of people trooped in
also.

There sat the thorny Sorcerer in his chair of state, and when the Wizard
saw him he began to laugh, uttering comical little chuckles.

"What an absurd creature!" he exclaimed.

"He may look absurd," said the Prince, in his quiet voice; "but he is an
excellent Sorcerer. The only fault I find with him is that he is so
often wrong."

"I am never wrong," answered the Sorcerer.

"Only a short time ago you told me there would be no more Rain of Stones
or of People," said the Prince.

"Well, what then?"

"Here is another person descended from the air to prove you were wrong."

"One person cannot be called 'people,'" said the Sorcerer. "If two
should come out of the sky you might with justice say I was wrong; but
unless more than this one appears I will hold that I was right."

"Very clever," said the Wizard, nodding his head as if pleased. "I am
delighted to find humbugs inside the earth, just the same as on top of
it. Were you ever with a circus, brother?"

"No," said the Sorcerer.

"You ought to join one," declared the little man seriously. "I belong to
Bailum & Barney's Great Consolidated Shows--three rings in one tent and
a menagerie on the side. It's a fine aggregation, I assure you."

"What do you do?" asked the Sorcerer.

"I go up in a balloon, usually, to draw the crowds to the circus. But
I've just had the bad luck to come out of the sky, skip the solid earth,
and land lower down than I intended. But never mind. It isn't everybody
who gets a chance to see your Land of the Gabazoos."

"Mangaboos," said the Sorcerer, correcting him. "If you are a Wizard you
ought to be able to call people by their right names."

"Oh, I'm a Wizard; you may be sure of that. Just as good a Wizard as you
are a Sorcerer."

"That remains to be seen," said the other.

"If you are able to prove that you are better," said the Prince to the
little man, "I will make you the Chief Wizard of this domain.
Otherwise--"

"What will happen otherwise?" asked the Wizard.

"I will stop you from living, and forbid you to be planted," returned
the Prince.

"That does not sound especially pleasant," said the little man, looking
at the one with the star uneasily. "But never mind. I'll beat Old
Prickly, all right."

"My name is Gwig," said the Sorcerer, turning his heartless, cruel eyes
upon his rival. "Let me see you equal the sorcery I am about to
perform."

He waved a thorny hand and at once the tinkling of bells was heard,
playing sweet music. Yet, look where she would, Dorothy could discover
no bells at all in the great glass hall.

The Mangaboo people listened, but showed no great interest. It was one
of the things Gwig usually did to prove he was a sorcerer.

Now was the Wizard's turn, so he smiled upon the assemblage and asked:

"Will somebody kindly loan me a hat?"

No one did, because the Mangaboos did not wear hats, and Zeb had lost
his, somehow, in his flight through the air.

"Ahem!" said the Wizard, "will somebody please loan me a handkerchief?"

But they had no handkerchiefs, either.

"Very good," remarked the Wizard. "I'll use my own hat, if you please.
Now, good people, observe me carefully. You see, there is nothing up my
sleeve and nothing concealed about my person. Also, my hat is quite
empty." He took off his hat and held it upside down, shaking it
briskly.

"Let me see it," said the Sorcerer.

He took the hat and examined it carefully, returning it afterward to the
Wizard.

"Now," said the little man, "I will create something out of nothing."

He placed the hat upon the glass floor, made a pass with his hand, and
then removed the hat, displaying a little white piglet no bigger than a
mouse, which began to run around here and there and to grunt and squeal
in a tiny, shrill voice.

The people watched it intently, for they had never seen a pig before,
big or little. The Wizard reached out, caught the wee creature in his
hand, and holding its head between one thumb and finger and its tail
between the other thumb and finger he pulled it apart, each of the two
parts becoming a whole and separate piglet in an instant.

He placed one upon the floor, so that it could run around, and pulled
apart the other, making three piglets in all; and then one of these was
pulled apart, making four piglets. The Wizard continued this surprising
performance until nine tiny piglets were running about at his feet, all
squealing and grunting in a very comical way.

"Now," said the Wizard of Oz, "having created something from nothing, I
will make something nothing again."

With this he caught up two of the piglets and pushed them together, so
that the two were one. Then he caught up another piglet and pushed it
into the first, where it disappeared. And so, one by one, the nine tiny
piglets were pushed together until but a single one of the creatures
remained. This the Wizard placed underneath his hat and made a mystic
sign above it. When he removed his hat the last piglet had disappeared
entirely.

The little man gave a bow to the silent throng that had watched him, and
then the Prince said, in his cold, calm voice:

"You are indeed a wonderful Wizard, and your powers are greater than
those of my Sorcerer."

"He will not be a wonderful Wizard long," remarked Gwig.

"Why not?" enquired the Wizard.

"Because I am going to stop your breath," was the reply. "I perceive
that you are curiously constructed, and that if you cannot breathe you
cannot keep alive."

The little man looked troubled.

"How long will it take you to stop my breath?" he asked.

"About five minutes. I'm going to begin now. Watch me carefully."

He began making queer signs and passes toward the Wizard; but the little
man did not watch him long. Instead, he drew a leathern case from his
pocket and took from it several sharp knives, which he joined together,
one after another, until they made a long sword. By the time he had
attached a handle to this sword he was having much trouble to breathe,
as the charm of the Sorcerer was beginning to take effect.

So the Wizard lost no more time, but leaping forward he raised the sharp
sword, whirled it once or twice around his head, and then gave a mighty
stroke that cut the body of the Sorcerer exactly in two.

Dorothy screamed and expected to see a terrible sight; but as the two
halves of the Sorcerer fell apart on the floor she saw that he had no
bones or blood inside of him at all, and that the place where he was cut
looked much like a sliced turnip or potato.

"Why, he's vegetable!" cried the Wizard, astonished.

"Of course," said the Prince. "We are all vegetable, in this country.
Are you not vegetable, also?"

"No," answered the Wizard. "People on top of the earth are all meat.
Will your Sorcerer die?"

"Certainly, sir. He is really dead now, and will wither very quickly. So
we must plant him at once, that other Sorcerers may grow upon his bush,"
continued the Prince.

"What do you mean by that?" asked the little Wizard, greatly puzzled.

"If you will accompany me to our public gardens," replied the Prince, "I
will explain to you much better than I can here the mysteries of our
Vegetable Kingdom."

[Illustration: THE WIZARD CUT THE SORCERER EXACTLY IN TWO.]


CHAPTER 4.

THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM


After the Wizard had wiped the dampness from his sword and taken it
apart and put the pieces into their leathern case again, the man with
the star ordered some of his people to carry the two halves of the
Sorcerer to the public gardens.

Jim pricked up his ears when he heard they were going to the gardens,
and wanted to join the party, thinking he might find something proper to
eat; so Zeb put down the top of the buggy and invited the Wizard to ride
with them. Quit gaming, racing, and be a good boy, and we shall all live
in Park Lane, and _ma tante_ shall leave us all her money." _Ma tante's_
money has been in her mind all through, but yet she loves him.

"Suppose the old lady doesn't come to," Rawdon said to his little wife as
they sat together in the snug little Brompton lodgings. She had been
trying the new piano all the morning.
The new gloves fitted her to a nicety.

The new shawl became her wonderfully. The new rings glittered on her
little hands, and the new watch ticked at her waist.

"_I'll_ make your fortune," she said; and Delilah patted Samson's cheek.

"You can do anything," he said, kissing the little hand. "By Jove you
can! and we'll drive down to the Star and Garter and dine, by
Jove!"

They were neither of them quite heartless at that moment, nor did
Rawdon ever become quite bad.

Then follow the adventures of Becky as a married woman, through all
of which there is a glimmer of love for her stupid husband, while
it is the real purpose of her heart to get money how she may,--by
her charms, by her wit, by her lies, by her readiness.

She makes love to everyone,--even to her sanctimonious brother-in-law,
who becomes Sir Pitt in his time,--and always succeeds.

But in her love-making there is nothing of love. She gets hold of that
well-remembered old reprobate, the Marquis of Steyne, who possesses
the two valuable gifts of being very dissolute and very rich, and
from him she obtains money and jewels to her heart's desire.

The abominations of Lord Steyne are depicted in the strongest
language of which _Vanity Fair_ admits.

The reader's hair stands almost on end in horror at the wickedness of the
two wretches,--at her desire for money, sheer money; and his for
wickedness, sheer wickedness.

Then her husband finds her out,--poor Rawdon! who with all his faults and
thickheaded stupidity, has become absolutely entranced by the wiles
of his little wife. He is carried off to a sponging-house, in
order that he may be out of the way, and, on escaping unexpectedly
from thraldom, finds the lord in his wife's drawing-room. Whereupon he
thrashes the old lord, nearly killing him; takes away the plunder
which he finds on his wife's person, and hurries away to seek
assistance as to further revenge;--for he is determined to shoot
the marquis, or to be shot.

He goes to one Captain Macmurdo, who is to act as his second, and there
he pours out his heart.

"You don't know how fond I was of that one," Rawdon said, half-inarticulately.
"Damme, I followed her like a footman!

I gave up everything I had to her.

I'm a beggar because I would marry her. By Jove, sir, I've pawned my own
watch to get her anything she fancied.

And she,--she's been making a purse for herself all the time, and
grudged me a hundred pounds to get me out of quod!"

His friend alleges that the wife may be innocent after all. "It may
be so," Rawdon exclaimed sadly; "but this don't look very innocent!"

And he showed the captain the thousand-pound note which he had found
in Becky's pocketbook.

But the marquis can do better than fight; and Rawdon, in spite of
his true love, can do better than follow the quarrel up to his own
undoing.

The marquis, on the spur of the moment, gets the lady's husband appointed
governor of Coventry Island, with a salary of three thousand pounds a
year; and poor Rawdon at last condescends to accept the appointment. He
will not see his wife again, but he makes her an allowance out of
his income.

In arranging all this, Thackeray is enabled to have a side blow at
the British way of distributing patronage,--for the favour of which
he was afterwards himself a candidate.

He quotes as follows from _The Royalist_ newspaper: "We hear that
the governorship"--of Coventry Island--"has been offered to Colonel
Rawdon Crawley, C.B., a distinguished Waterloo officer.

We need not only men of acknowledged bravery, but men of administrative
talents to superintend the affairs of our colonies; and we have
no doubt that the gentleman selected by the Colonial Office to fill
the lamented vacancy which has occurred at Coventry Island, is
admirably calculated for the post."

The reader, however, is aware that the officer in question cannot
write a sentence or speak two words correctly.

Our heroine's adventures are carried on much further, but they cannot be
given here in detail.

To the end she is the same,--utterly false, selfish, covetous, and
successful. To have made such a woman really in love would have been
a mistake. Her husband she likes best,--because he is, or was, her
own.

But there is no man so foul, so wicked, so unattractive, but that she can
fawn over him for money and jewels. There are women to whom nothing is
nasty, either in person, language, scenes, actions, or principle,--and
Becky is one of them; and yet she is herself attractive. A most
wonderful sketch, for the perpetration of which all Thackeray's power
of combined indignation and humour was necessary!

The story of Amelia and her two lovers, George Osborne and Captain,
or as he came afterwards to be, Major, and Colonel Dobbin, is less
interesting, simply because goodness and eulogy are less exciting than
wickedness and censure. Amelia is a true, honest-hearted, thoroughly
English young woman, who loves her love because he is grand,--to
her eyes,--and loving him, loves him with all her heart.

Readers have said that she is silly, only because she is not heroic. I
do not know that she is more silly than many young ladies whom we who
are old have loved in our youth, or than those whom our sons are
loving at the present time. Readers complain of Amelia because she
is absolutely true to nature. There are no Raffaellistic touches, no
added graces, no divine romance. She is feminine all over, and
British,--loving, true, thoroughly unselfish, yet with a taste for
having things comfortable, forgiving, quite capable of jealousy,
but prone to be appeased at once, at the first kiss; quite convinced
that her lover, her husband, her children are the people in all the
world to whom the greatest consideration is due.

Such a one is sure to be the dupe of a Becky Sharp, should a Becky
Sharp come in her way,--as is the case with so many sweet Amelias whom
we have known. But in a matter of love she is sound enough and sensible
enough,--and she is as true as steel. I know no trait in Amelia which a
man would be ashamed to find in his own daughter.

She marries her George Osborne, who, to tell the truth of him, is
but a poor kind of fellow, though he is a brave soldier.

He thinks much of his own person, and is selfish. Thackeray puts in a
touch or two here and there by which he is made to be odious. He would
rather give a present to himself than to the girl who loved him.
Nevertheless, when her father is ruined he marries her, and he
fights bravely at Waterloo, and is killed.

"No more firing was heard at Brussels.

The pursuit rolled miles away. Darkness came down on the field and the
city,--and Amelia was praying for George, who was lying on his
face, dead, with a bullet through his heart."

Then follows the long courtship of Dobbin, the true hero,--he who
has been the friend of George since their old school-days; who has
lived with him and served him, and has also loved Amelia.

But he has loved her,--as one man may love another,--solely with a view
to the profit of his friend.

He has known all along that George and Amelia have been engaged to
each other as boy and girl.

George would have neglected her, but Dobbin would not allow it.

George would have jilted the girl who loved him, but Dobbin would not
let him.

He had nothing to get for himself, but loving her as he did, it was the
work of his life to get for her all that she wanted.

George is shot at Waterloo, and then come fifteen years of widowhood,--fifteen
years during which Becky is carrying on her manoeuvres,--fifteen years
during which Amelia cannot bring herself to accept the devotion of
the old captain, who becomes at last a colonel.
But at the end she is won. "The vessel is in port. He has got the prize
he has been trying for all his life. The bird has come in at last.
There it is, with its head on its shoulder, billing and cooing
clean up to his heart, with soft outstretched fluttering wings.

This is what he has asked for every day and hour for eighteen years.

This is what he has pined after. Here it is,--the summit, the end,
the last page of the third volume."

The reader as he closes the book has on his mind a strong conviction,
the strongest possible conviction, that among men George is as weak and
Dobbin as noble as any that he has met in literature; and that
among women Amelia is as true and Becky as vile as any he has
encountered.

Of so much he will be conscious.

In addition to this he will unconsciously have found that every
page he has read will have been of interest to him.

There has been no padding, no longueurs; every bit will have had its weight
with him. And he will find too at the end, if he will think of
it--though readers, I fear, seldom think much of this in regard
to books they have read--that the lesson taught in every page has
been good.

There may be details of evil painted so as to disgust,--painted
almost too plainly,--but none painted so as to allure.

CHAPTER IV.

PENDENNIS AND THE NEWCOMES.

The absence of the heroic was, in Thackeray, so palpable to Thackeray
himself that in his original preface to _Pendennis_, when he began
to be aware that his reputation was made, he tells his public what
they may expect and what they may not, and makes his joking complaint
of the readers of his time because they will not endure with patience
the true picture of a natural man.

"Even the gentlemen of our age," he says,--adding that the story of
_Pendennis_ is an attempt to describe one of them, just as he is,--"even
those we cannot show as they are with the notorious selfishness of their
time and their education.

Since the author of _Tom Jones_ was buried, no writer of fiction
among us has been permitted to depict to his utmost power a MAN.

We must shape him, and give him a certain conventional temper." Then
he rebukes his audience because they will not listen to the truth.
"You will not hear what moves in the real world, what passes in society,
in the clubs, colleges, mess-rooms,--what is the life and talk of your
sons." You want the Raffaellistic touch, or that of some painter
of horrors equally removed from the truth.

I tell you how a man really does act,--as did Fielding with Tom Jones,--but
it does not satisfy you.

You will not sympathise with this young man of mine, this Pendennis, because
he is neither angel nor imp.

If it be so, let it be so. I will not paint for you angels or imps,
because I do not see them.

The young man of the day, whom I do see, and of whom I know the
inside and the out thoroughly, him I have painted for you; and here
he is, whether you like the picture or not.

This is what Thackeray meant, and, having this in his mind, he
produced _Pendennis_.

The object of a novel should be to instruct in morals while it amuses. I
cannot think but that every novelist who has thought much of his
art will have realised as much as that for himself.

Whether this may best be done by the transcendental or by the commonplace
is the question which it more behoves the reader than the author
to answer, because the author may be fairly sure that he who can
do the one will not, probably cannot, do the other.

If a lad be only five feet high he does not try to enlist in the
Guards.

Thackeray complains that many ladies have "remonstrated and subscribers
left him," because of his realistic tendency.

Nevertheless he has gone on with his work, and, in _Pendennis_, has
painted a young man as natural as Tom Jones.

Had he expended himself in the attempt, he could not have drawn a Master
of Ravenswood.

It has to be admitted that Pendennis is not a fine fellow. He is not as
weak, as selfish, as untrustworthy as that George Osborne whom Amelia
married in _Vanity Fair_; but nevertheless, he is weak, and selfish,
and untrustworthy.

He is not such a one as a father would wish to see his son, or a mother
to welcome as a lover for her daughter. But then, fathers are so often
doomed to find their sons not all that they wish, and mothers to
see their girls falling in love with young men who are not Paladins.

In our individual lives we are contented to endure an admixture of
evil, which we should resent if imputed to us in the general.

We presume ourselves to be truth-speaking, noble in our sentiments,
generous in our actions, modest and unselfish, chivalrous and
devoted.

But we forgive and pass over in silence a few delinquencies among
ourselves. What boy at school ever is a coward,--in the general?
What gentleman ever tells a lie? What young lady is greedy? We take it
for granted, as though they were fixed rules in life, that our
boys from our public schools look us in the face and are manly;
that our gentlemen tell the truth as a matter of course; and that
our young ladies are refined and unselfish.

Thackeray is always protesting that it is not so, and that no good
is to be done by blinking the truth.

He knows that we have our little home experiences.

Let us have the facts out, and mend what is bad if we can. This novel
of _Pendennis_ is one of his loudest protests to this effect.

I will not attempt to tell the story of Pendennis, how his mother loved
him, how he first came to be brought up together with Laura Bell,
how he thrashed the other boys when he was a boy, and how he fell
in love with Miss Fotheringay, née Costigan, and was determined to
marry her while he was still a hobbledehoy, how he went up to
Boniface, that well-known college at Oxford, and there did no good,
spending money which he had not got, and learning to gamble.

The English gentleman, as we know, never lies; but Pendennis is not quite
truthful; when the college tutor, thinking that he hears the
rattling of dice, makes his way into Pen's room, Pen and his two
companions are found with three _Homers_ before them, and Pen asks
the tutor with great gravity; "What was the present condition of
the river Scamander, and whether it was navigable or no?"

He tells his mother that, during a certain vacation he must stay up and
read, instead of coming home,--but, nevertheless, he goes up to London
to amuse himself. The reader is soon made to understand that, though
Pen may be a fine gentleman, he is not trustworthy.

But he repents and comes home, and kisses his mother; only, alas! he will
always be kissing somebody else also.

The story of the Amorys and the Claverings, and that wonderful
French cook M.

Alcide Mirobolant, forms one of those delightful digressions which
Thackeray scatters through his novels rather than weaves into them.

They generally have but little to do with the story itself, and are brought
in only as giving scope for some incident to the real hero or
heroine.

But in this digression Pen is very much concerned indeed, for he is brought
to the very verge of matrimony with that peculiarly disagreeable lady
Miss Amory.

He does escape at last, but only within a few pages of the end, when
we are made unhappy by the lady's victory over that poor young
sinner Foker, with whom we have all come to sympathise, in spite
of his vulgarity and fast propensities.

She would to the last fain have married Pen, in whom she believes,
thinking that he would make a name for her. "Il me faut des émotions,"
says Blanche.
Whereupon the author, as he leaves her, explains the nature of this
Miss Amory's feelings.

"For this young lady was not able to carry out any emotion to the
full, but had a sham enthusiasm, a sham hatred, a sham love, a
sham taste, a sham grief; each of which flared and shone very
vehemently for an instant, but subsided and gave place to the next
sham emotion."

Thackeray, when he drew this portrait, must certainly have had some
special young lady in his view.

But though we are made unhappy for Foker, Foker too escapes at last,
and Blanche, with her emotions, marries that very doubtful nobleman
Comte Montmorenci de Valentinois.

But all this of Miss Amory is but an episode. The purport of the
story is the way in which the hero is made to enter upon the world,
subject as he has been to the sweet teaching of his mother, and subject
as he is made to be to the worldly lessons of his old uncle the major.
Then he is ill, and nearly dies, and his mother comes up to nurse him.
And there is his friend Warrington, of whose family down in Suffolk
we shall have heard something when we have read _The Virginians_,--one
I think of the finest characters, as it is certainly one of the
most touching, that Thackeray ever drew.

Warrington, and Pen's mother, and Laura are our hero's better angels,--angels
so good as to make us wonder that a creature so weak should have had such
angels about him; though we are driven to confess that their affection
and loyalty for him are natural.
There is a melancholy beneath the roughness of Warrington, and a
feminine softness combined with the reticent manliness of the man,
which have endeared him to readers beyond perhaps any character in
the book.

Major Pendennis has become immortal.

Selfish, worldly, false, padded, caring altogether for things mean
and poor in themselves; still the reader likes him. It is not quite all
for himself.

To Pen he is good,--to Pen who is the head of his family, and to
come after him as the Pendennis of the day.

To Pen and to Pen's mother he is beneficent after his lights. In
whatever he undertakes it is so contrived that the reader shall in
some degree sympathise with him.

And so it is with poor old Costigan, the drunken Irish captain,
Miss Fotheringay's papa.

He was not a pleasant person. "We have witnessed the déshabille of
Major Pendennis," says our author; "will any one wish to be valet-de-chambre
to our other hero, Costigan? It would seem that the captain, before
issuing from his bedroom, scented himself with otto of whisky." Yet there
is a kindliness about him which softens our hearts, though in truth
he is very careful that the kindness shall always be shown to
himself.

Among these people Pen makes his way to the end of the novel, coming
near to shipwreck on various occasions, and always deserving the
shipwreck which he has almost encountered.

Then there will arise the question whether it might not have been
better that he should be altogether shipwrecked, rather than housed
comfortably with such a wife as Laura, and left to that enjoyment
of happiness forever after, which is the normal heaven prepared for
heroes and heroines who have done their work well through three
volumes.

It is almost the only instance in all Thackeray's works in which this state
of bliss is reached.

George Osborne, who is the beautiful lover in _Vanity Fair_, is killed
almost before our eyes, on the field of battle, and we feel that
Nemesis has with justice taken hold of him.

Poor old Dobbin does marry the widow, after fifteen years of further
service, when we know him to be a middle-aged man and her a
middle-aged woman.

That glorious Paradise of which I have spoken requires a freshness
which can hardly be attributed to the second marriage of a widow
who has been fifteen years mourning for her first husband.

Clive Newcome, "the first young man," if we may so call him, of the novel
which I shall mention just now, is carried so far beyond his
matrimonial elysium that we are allowed to see too plainly how far from
true may be those promises of hymeneal happiness forever after.

The cares of married life have settled down heavily upon his young
head before we leave him.

He not only marries, but loses his wife, and is left a melancholy
widower with his son.

Esmond and Beatrix certainly reach no such elysium as that of which
we are speaking. But Pen, who surely deserved a Nemesis, though perhaps
not one so black as that demanded by George Osborne's delinquencies,
is treated as though he had been passed through the fire, and had
come out,--if not pure gold, still gold good enough for goldsmiths.

"And what sort of a husband will this Pendennis be?"

This is the question asked by the author himself at the end of the
novel; feeling, no doubt, some hesitation as to the justice of what he
had just done.

"And what sort of a husband will this Pendennis be?"

many a reader will ask, doubting the happiness of such a marriage and
the future of Laura.

"Those colored suns are exactly in the same place they were when we
came, and if there is no sunset there can be no night."

"Very true," agreed the Wizard. "But it is a long time since I have had
any sleep, and I'm tired. So I think I shall lie down upon one of these
hard glass benches and take a nap."

"I will, too," said Dorothy, and chose a little room at the end of the
hall.

Zeb walked down again to unharness Jim, who, when he found himself free,
rolled over a few times and then settled down to sleep, with Eureka
nestling comfortably beside his big, boney body. Then the boy returned
to one of the upper rooms, and in spite of the hardness of the glass
bench was soon deep in slumberland.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER 6.

THE MANGABOOS PROVE DANGEROUS


When the Wizard awoke the six colored suns were shining down upon the
Land of the Mangaboos just as they had done ever since his arrival. The
little man, having had a good sleep, felt rested and refreshed, and
looking through the glass partition of the room he saw Zeb sitting up on
his bench and yawning. So the Wizard went in to him.

"Zeb," said he, "my balloon is of no further use in this strange
country, so I may as well leave it on the square where it fell. But in
the basket-car are some things I would like to keep with me. I wish you
would go and fetch my satchel, two lanterns, and a can of kerosene oil
that is under the seat. There is nothing else that I care about."

So the boy went willingly upon the errand, and by the time he had
returned Dorothy was awake. Then the three held a counsel to decide what
they should do next, but could think of no way to better their
condition.

"I don't like these veg'table people," said the little girl. "They're
cold and flabby, like cabbages, in spite of their prettiness."

"I agree with you. It is because there is no warm blood in them,"
remarked the Wizard.

"And they have no hearts; so they can't love anyone--not even
themselves," declared the boy.

"The Princess is lovely to look at," continued Dorothy, thoughtfully;
"but I don't care much for her, after all. If there was any other place
to go, I'd like to go there."

"But _is_ there any other place?" asked the Wizard.

"I don't know," she answered.

Just then they heard the big voice of Jim the cab-horse calling to them,
and going to the doorway leading to the dome they found the Princess and
a throng of her people had entered the House of the Sorcerer.

So they went down to greet the beautiful vegetable lady, who said to
them:

"I have been talking with my advisors about you meat people, and we have
decided that you do not belong in the Land of the Mangaboos and must not
remain here."

"How can we go away?" asked Dorothy.

"Oh, you cannot go away, of course; so you must be destroyed," was the
answer.

"In what way?" enquired the Wizard.

"We shall throw you three people into the Garden of the Twining Vines,"
said the Princess, "and they will soon crush you and devour your bodies
to make themselves grow bigger. The animals you have with you we will
drive to the mountains and put into the Black Pit. Then our country will
be rid of all its unwelcome visitors."

"But you are in need of a Sorcerer," said the Wizard, "and not one of
those growing is yet ripe enough to pick. I am greater than any
thorn-covered sorcerer that ever grew in your garden. Why destroy me?"

"It is true we need a Sorcerer," acknowledged the Princess, "but I am
informed that one of our own will be ready to pick in a few days, to
take the place of Gwig, whom you cut in two before it was time for him
to be planted. Let us see your arts, and the sorceries you are able to
perform. Then I will decide whether to destroy you with the others or
not."

At this the Wizard made a bow to the people and repeated his trick of
producing the nine tiny piglets and making them disappear again. He did
it very cleverly, indeed, and the Princess looked at the strange
piglets as if she were as truly astonished as any vegetable person could
be. But afterward she said:

"I have heard of this wonderful magic. But it accomplishes nothing of
value. What else can you do?"

The Wizard tried to think. Then he jointed together the blades of his
sword and balanced it very skillfully upon the end of his nose. But even
that did not satisfy the Princess.

Just then his eye fell upon the lanterns and the can of kerosene oil
which Zeb had brought from the car of his balloon, and he got a clever
idea from those commonplace things.

"Your Highness," said he, "I will now proceed to prove my magic by
creating two suns that you have never seen before; also I will exhibit a
Destroyer much more dreadful than your Clinging Vines."

So he placed Dorothy upon one side of him and the boy upon the other and
set a lantern upon each of their heads.

"Don't laugh," he whispered to them, "or you will spoil the effect of my
magic."

[Illustration: "NOW, PRINCESS," EXCLAIMED THE WIZARD.]

Then, with much dignity and a look of vast importance upon his wrinkled
face, the Wizard got out his match-box and lighted the two lanterns. The
glare they made was very small when compared with the radiance of the
six great colored suns; but still they gleamed steadily and clearly. The
Mangaboos were much impressed because they had never before seen any
light that did not come directly from their suns.

Next the Wizard poured a pool of oil from the can upon the glass floor,
where it covered quite a broad surface. When he lighted the oil a
hundred tongues of flame shot up, and the effect was really imposing.

"Now, Princess," exclaimed the Wizard, "those of your advisors who
wished to throw us into the Garden of Clinging Vines must step within
this circle of light. If they advised you well, and were in the right,
they will not be injured in any way. But if any advised you wrongly, the
light will wither him."

The advisors of the Princess did not like this test; but she commanded
them to step into the flame and one by one they did so, and were
scorched so badly that the air was soon filled with an odor like that of
baked potatoes. Some of the Mangaboos fell down and had to be dragged
from the fire, and all were so withered that it would be necessary to
plant them at once.

"Sir," said the Princess to the Wizard, "you are greater than any
Sorcerer we have ever known. As it is evident that my people have
advised me wrongly, I will not cast you three people into the dreadful
Garden of the Clinging Vines; but your animals must be driven into the
Black Pit in the mountain, for my subjects cannot bear to have them
around."

The Wizard was so pleased to have saved the two children and himself
that he said nothing against this decree; but when the Princess had gone
both Jim and Eureka protested they did not want to go to the Black Pit,
and Dorothy promised she would do all that she could to save them from
such a fate.

For two or three days after this--if we call days the periods between
sleep, there being no night to divide the hours into days--our friends
were not disturbed in any way. They were even permitted to occupy the
House of the Sorcerer in peace, as if it had been their own, and to
wander in the gardens in search of food.

Once they came near to the enclosed Garden of the Clinging Vines, and
walking high into the air looked down upon it with much interest. They
saw a mass of tough green vines all matted together and writhing and
twisting around like a nest of great snakes. Everything the vines
touched they crushed, and our adventurers were indeed thankful to have
escaped being cast among them.

Whenever the Wizard went to sleep he would take the nine tiny piglets
from his pocket and let them run around on the floor of his room to
amuse themselves and get some exercise; and one time they found his
glass door ajar and wandered into the hall and then into the bottom part
of the great dome, walking through the air as easily as Eureka could.
They knew the kitten, by this time, so they scampered over to where she
lay beside Jim and commenced to frisk and play with her.

The cab-horse, who never slept long at a time, sat upon his haunches and
watched the tiny piglets and the kitten with much approval.

"Don't be rough!" he would call out, if Eureka knocked over one of the
round, fat piglets with her paw; but the pigs never minded, and enjoyed
the sport very greatly.

Suddenly they looked up to find the room filled with the silent,
solemn-eyed Mangaboos. Each of the vegetable folks bore a branch covered
with sharp thorns, which was thrust defiantly toward the horse, the
kitten and the piglets.

"Here--stop this foolishness!" Jim roared, angrily; but after being
pricked once or twice he got upon his four legs and kept out of the way
of the thorns.

The Mangaboos surrounded them in solid ranks, but left an opening to the
doorway of the hall; so the animals slowly retreated until they were
driven from the room and out upon the street. Here were more of the
vegetable people with thorns, and silently they urged the now frightened
creatures down the street. Jim had to be careful not to step upon the
tiny piglets, who scampered under his feet grunting and squealing, while
Eureka, snarling and biting at the thorns pushed toward her, also tried
to protect the pretty little things from injury. Let those who care to
form an opinion of Swift's mind from the best known of his works,
turn to Thackeray's account of Gulliver. I can imagine no greater
proof of misery than to have been able to write such a book as
that.

It is thus that the lecturer concludes his lecture about Swift. "He shrank
away from all affections sooner or later.

Stella and Vanessa both died near him, and away from him. He had
not heart enough to see them die. He broke from his fastest friend,
Sheridan. He slunk away from his fondest admirer, Pope.

His laugh jars on one's ear after seven-score years.

He was always alone,--alone and gnashing in the darkness, except
when Stella's sweet smile came and shone on him.

When that went, silence and utter night closed over him.

An immense genius, an awful downfall and ruin! So great a man he seems
to me, that thinking of him is like thinking of an empire falling. We
have other great names to mention,--none I think, however, so great
or so gloomy." And so we pass on from Swift, feeling that though the
man was certainly a humorist, we have had as yet but little to do
with humour.

Congreve is the next who, however truly he may have been a humorist,
is described here rather as a man of fashion.

A man of fashion he certainly was, but is best known in our literature
as a comedian,--worshipping that comic Muse to whom Thackeray hesitates
to introduce his audience, because she is not only merry but shameless
also.

Congreve's muse was about as bad as any muse that ever misbehaved
herself,--and I think, as little amusing.

"Reading in these plays now," says Thackeray, "is like shutting
your ears and looking at people dancing.

What does it mean?

--the measures, the grimaces, the bowing, shuffling, and retreating, the
cavaliers seuls advancing upon their ladies, then ladies and men
twirling round at the end in a mad galop, after which everybody bows
and the quaint rite is celebrated?"

It is always so with Congreve's plays, and Etherege's and Wycherley's.
The world we meet there is not our world, and as we read the plays we
have no sympathy with these unknown people. It was not that they lived
so long ago. They are much nearer to us in time than the men and women
who figured on the stage in the reign of James I.

But their nature is farther from our nature. They sparkle but never
warm.

They are witty but leave no impression. I might almost go further, and say
that they are wicked but never allure.

"When Voltaire came to visit the Great Congreve," says Thackeray, "the
latter rather affected to despise his literary reputation; and in this,
perhaps, the great Congreve was not far wrong.

A touch of Steele's tenderness is worth all his finery; a flash of
Swift's lightning, a beam of Addison's pure sunshine, and his tawdry
playhouse taper is invisible.
But the ladies loved him, and he was undoubtedly a pretty fellow."

There is no doubt as to the true humour of Addison, who next comes
up before us, but I think that he makes hardly so good a subject for a
lecturer as the great gloomy man of intellect, or the frivolous man of
pleasure. Thackeray tells us all that is to be said about him as a
humorist in so few lines that I may almost insert them on this
page:
"But it is not for his reputation as the great author of _Cato_ and
_The Campaign_, or for his merits as Secretary of State, or for his
rank and high distinction as Lady Warwick's husband, or for his
eminence as an examiner of political questions on the Whig side,
or a guardian of British liberties, that we admire Joseph Addison.

It is as a Tattler of small talk and a Spectator of mankind that we
cherish and love him, and owe as much pleasure to him as to any human
being that ever wrote. He came in that artificial age, and began to speak
with his noble natural voice. He came the gentle satirist, who hit
no unfair blow; the kind judge, who castigated only in smiling. While
Swift went about hanging and ruthless, a literary Jeffreys, in Addison's
kind court only minor cases were tried;--only peccadilloes and small
sins against society, only a dangerous libertinism in tuckers and
hoops, or a nuisance in the abuse of beaux canes and snuffboxes." Steele
set _The Tatler_ a going.

"But with his friend's discovery of _The Tatler_, Addison's calling was
found, and the most delightful Tattler in the world began to speak.
He does not go very deep. Let gentlemen of a profound genius, critics
accustomed to the plunge of the bathos, console themselves by
thinking that he couldn't go very deep.

There is no trace of suffering in his writing. He was so good, so honest,
so healthy, so cheerfully selfish,--if I must use the word!"
Such was Addison as a humorist; and when the hearer shall have heard
also,--or the reader read,--that this most charming Tattler also
wrote _Cato_, became a Secretary of State, and married a countess,
he will have learned all that Thackeray had to tell of him.

Steele was one who stood much less high in the world's esteem, and who
left behind him a much smaller name,--but was quite Addison's equal as a
humorist and a wit. Addison, though he had the reputation of a toper,
was respectability itself. Steele was almost always disreputable. He
was brought from Ireland, placed at the Charter House, and then
transferred to Oxford, where he became acquainted with Addison.

Thackeray says that "Steele found Addison a stately college don at
Oxford."

The stateliness and the don's rank were attributable no doubt to the
more sober character of the English lad, for, in fact, the two men
were born in the same year, 1672. Steele, who during his life was
affected by various different tastes, first turned himself to literature,
but early in life was bitten by the hue of a red coat and became
a trooper in the Horse Guards.

To the end he vacillated in the same way.

"In that charming paper in _The Tatler_, in which he records his father's
death, his mother's griefs, his own most solemn and tender emotions,
he says he is interrupted by the arrival of a hamper of wine, 'the
same as is to be sold at Garraway's next week;' upon the receipt
of which he sends for three friends, and they fall to instantly,
drinking two bottles apiece, with great benefit to themselves, and
not separating till two o'clock in the morning."

He had two wives, whom he loved dearly and treated badly. He hired
grand houses, and bought fine horses for which he could never pay.

He was often religious, but more often drunk. As a man of letters, other
men of letters who followed him, such as Thackeray, could not be
very proud of him.

But everybody loved him; and he seems to have been the inventor of that
flying literature which, with many changes in form and manner,
has done so much for the amusement and edification of readers ever
since his time.

He was always commencing, or carrying on,--often editing,--some one
of the numerous periodicals which appeared during his time.
Thackeray mentions seven: _The Tatler_, _The Spectator_, _The Guardian_,
_The Englishman_, _The Lover_, _The Reader_, and _The Theatre_;
that three of them are well known to this day,--the three first
named,--and are to be found in all libraries, is proof that his
life was not thrown away.

I almost question Prior's right to be in the list, unless indeed
the mastery over well-turned conceits is to be included within the
border of humour.

But Thackeray had a strong liking for Prior, and in his own humorous
way rebukes his audience for not being familiar with _The Town and
Country Mouse_.

He says that Prior's epigrams have the genuine sparkle, and compares
Prior to Horace. "His song, his philosophy, his good sense, his happy
easy turns and melody, his loves and his epicureanism bear a great
resemblance to that most delightful and accomplished master." I cannot
say that I agree with this.

Prior is generally neat in his expression. Horace is happy,--which is
surely a great deal more.

All that is said of Gay, Pope, Hogarth, Smollett, and Fielding is worth
reading, and may be of great value both to those who have not time to
study the authors, and to those who desire to have their own
judgments somewhat guided, somewhat assisted.

That they were all men of humour there can be no doubt. Whether either
of them, except perhaps Gay, would have been specially ranked as a
humorist among men of letters, may be a question.

Sterne was a humorist, and employed his pen in that line, if ever
a writer did so, and so was Goldsmith.

Of the excellence and largeness of the disposition of the one, and the
meanness and littleness of the other, it is not necessary that I should
here say much. But I will give a short passage from our author as to
each. He has been quoting somewhat at length from Sterne, and thus he
ends; "And with this pretty dance and chorus the volume artfully
concludes.

Even here one can't give the whole description. There is not a page in
Sterne's writing but has something that were better away, a latent
corruption,--a hint as of an impure presence.

Some of that dreary double entendre may be attributed to freer times and
manners than ours,--but not all. The foul satyr's eyes leer out
of the leaves constantly.

The last words the famous author wrote were bad and wicked. The last lines
the poor stricken wretch penned were for pity and pardon." Now a
line or two about Goldsmith, and I will then let my reader go to
the volume and study the lectures for himself.

"The poor fellow was never so friendless but that he could befriend some
one; never so pinched and wretched but he could give of his crust, and
speak his word of compassion. If he had but his flute left, he would
give that, and make the children happy in the dreary London courts."

Of this too I will remind my readers,--those who have bookshelves well-filled
to adorn their houses,--that Goldsmith stands in the front where all
the young people see the volumes.

There are few among the young people who do not refresh their sense
of humour occasionally from that shelf, Sterne is relegated to some
distant and high corner.

The less often that he is taken down the better.

Thackeray makes some half excuse for him because of the greater
freedom of the times.

But "the times" were the same for the two. Both Sterne and Goldsmith
wrote in the reign of George II.; both died in the reign of George
III.

CHAPTER VIII.

THACKERAY'S BALLADS.

We have a volume of Thackeray's poems, republished under the name of
_Ballads_, which is, I think, to a great extent a misnomer.

They are all readable, almost all good, full of humour, and with some fine
touches of pathos, most happy in their versification, and, with a few
exceptions, hitting well on the head the nail which he intended to hit.
But they are not on that account ballads. Literally, a ballad is a song,
but it has come to signify a short chronicle in verse, which may be
political, or pathetic, or grotesque,--or it may have all three
characteristics or any two of them; but not on that account is any
grotesque poem a ballad,--nor, of course, any pathetic or any political
poem. _Jacob Omnium's Hoss_ may fairly be called a ballad, containing as
it does a chronicle of a certain well-defined transaction; and the story
of _King Canute_ is a ballad,--one of the best that has been
produced in our language in modern years.

But such pieces as those called _The End of the Play_ and _Vanitas
Vanitatum_, which are didactic as well as pathetic, are not ballads
in the common sense; nor are such songs as _The Mahogany Tree_, or the
little collection called _Love Songs made Easy_. The majority of the
pieces are not ballads, but if they be good of the kind we should
be ungrateful to quarrel much with the name.

How very good most of them are, I did not know till I re-read them for
the purpose of writing this chapter.

There is a manifest falling off in some few,--which has come from
that source of literary failure which is now so common.

If a man write a book or a poem because it is in him to write it,--the
motive power being altogether in himself and coming from his desire to
express himself,--he will write it well, presuming him to be capable
of the effort.

But if he write his book or poem simply because a book or poem is required
from him, let his capability be what it may, it is not unlikely
that he will do it badly.

Thackeray occasionally suffered from the weakness thus produced. A ballad
from _Policeman X_,--_Bow Street Ballads_ they were first called,--was
required by _Punch_, and had to be forthcoming, whatever might be the
poet's humour, by a certain time. _Jacob Omnium's Hoss_ is
excellent.

His heart and feeling were all there, on behalf of his friend, and
against that obsolete old court of justice.

But we can tell well when he was looking through the police reports
for a subject, and taking what chance might send him, without any
special interest in the matter.

_The Knight and the Lady of Bath_, and the _Damages Two Hundred
Pounds_, as they were demanded at Guildford, taste as though they
were written to order.

Here, in his verses as in his prose, the charm of Thackeray's work
lies in the mingling of humour with pathos and indignation. There is
hardly a piece that is not more or less funny, hardly a piece that is
not satirical;--and in most of them, for those who will look a
little below the surface, there is something that will touch them.

Thackeray, though he rarely uttered a word, either with his pen or his
mouth, in which there was not an intention to reach our sense of humour,
never was only funny. When he was most determined to make us laugh, he
had always a further purpose;--some pity was to be extracted from
us on behalf of the sorrows of men, or some indignation at the evil
done by them.

This is the beginning of that story as to the _Two Hundred Pounds_,
for which as a ballad I do not care very much:
Special jurymen of England who admire your country's laws, And
proclaim a British jury worthy of the nation's applause, Gaily
compliment each other at the issue of a cause, Which was tried at
Guildford 'sizes, this day week as ever was.

Here he is indignant, not only in regard to some miscarriage of justice
on that special occasion, but at the general unfitness of jurymen
for the work confided to them.

"Gaily compliment yourselves," he says, "on your beautiful constitution,
from which come such beautiful results as those I am going to tell
you!"

When he reminded us that Ivanhoe had produced Magna Charta, there
was a purpose of irony even there in regard to our vaunted freedom.

With all your Magna Charta and your juries, what are you but snobs!

There is nothing so often misguided as general indignation, and I think
that in his judgment of outside things, in the measure which he
usually took of them, Thackeray was very frequently misguided.

A satirist by trade will learn to satirise everything, till the
light of the sun and the moon's loveliness will become evil and
mean to him.

I think that he was mistaken in his views of things.

But we have to do with him as a writer, not as a political economist
or a politician.

His indignation was all true, and the expression of it was often
perfect.

The lines in which he addresses that Pallis Court, at the end of
Jacob Omnium's Hoss, are almost sublime.

O Pallis Court, you move My pity most profound.

A most amusing sport You thought it, I'll be bound, To saddle hup
a three-pound debt, With two-and-twenty pound.

Good sport it is to you To grind the honest poor, To pay their just
or unjust debts With eight hundred per cent, for Lor; Make haste
and get your costes in, They will not last much mor!

Come down from that tribewn, Thou shameless and unjust; Thou swindle,
picking pockets in The name of Truth august; Come down, thou hoary
Blasphemy, For die thou shalt and must.

And go it, Jacob Homnium, And ply your iron pen, And rise up, Sir
John Jervis, And shut me up that den; That sty for fattening lawyers
in, On the bones of honest men.

"Come down from that tribewn, thou shameless and unjust!"

It is impossible not to feel that he felt this as he wrote it.

There is a branch of his poetry which he calls,--or which at any
rate is now called, _Lyra Hybernica_, for which no doubt _The Groves
of Blarney_ was his model.

There have been many imitations since, of which perhaps Barham's
ballad on the coronation was the best, "When to Westminster the
Royal Spinster and the Duke of Leinster all in order did repair!"

Thackeray in some of his attempts has been equally droll and equally
graphic. That on _The Cristal Palace_,--not that at Sydenham, but its
forerunner, the palace of the Great Exhibition,--is very good, as
the following catalogue of its contents will show;
There's holy saints And window paints, By Maydiayval Pugin;
Alhamborough Jones Did paint the tones Of yellow and gambouge in.

There's fountains there And crosses fair; There's water-gods with urns;
There's organs three, To play, d'ye see?
"God save the Queen," by turns.

There's statues bright Of marble white, Of silver, and of copper; And
some in zinc, And some, I think, That isn't over proper.

There's staym ingynes, That stands in lines, Enormous and amazing,
That squeal and snort Like whales in sport, Or elephants a grazing.

There's carts and gigs, And pins for pigs, There's dibblers and there's
harrows, And ploughs like toys For little boys, And ilegant
wheel-barrows.

For thim genteels Who ride on wheels, There's plenty to indulge 'em There's
droskys snug From Paytersbug, And vayhycles from Bulgium.

There's cabs on stands And shandthry danns; There's waggons from New York
here; There's Lapland sleighs Have cross'd the seas, And jaunting cyars
from Cork here.

In writing this Thackeray was a little late with his copy for _Punch_;
not, we should say, altogether an uncommon accident to him.

It should have been with the editor early on Saturday, if not before,
but did not come till late on Saturday evening.

The editor, who was among men the most good-natured and I should
think the most forbearing, either could not, or in this case would
not, insert it in the next week's issue, and Thackeray, angry and
disgusted, sent it to _The Times_.

In _The Times_ of next Monday it appeared,--very much I should think
to the delight of the readers of that august newspaper.

Mr.

Molony's account of the ball given to the Nepaulese ambassadors by
the Peninsular and Oriental Company, is so like Barham's coronation
in the account it gives of the guests, that one would fancy it must
be by the same hand.

The noble Chair[7] stud at the stair And bade the dhrums to thump;
and he Did thus evince to that Black Prince The welcome of his
Company.[8]
O fair the girls and rich the curls, And bright the oys you saw
there was; And fixed each oye you then could spoi On General Jung
Bahawther was!

This gineral great then tuck his sate, With all the other ginerals, Bedad
his troat, his belt, his coat, All bleezed with precious minerals;
And as he there, with princely air, Recloinin on his cushion was,
All round about his royal chair The squeezin and the pushin was.

O Pat, such girls, such jukes and earls, Such fashion and nobilitee!

Just think of Tim, and fancy him Amidst the high gentilitee!
There was the Lord de L'Huys, and the Portygeese Ministher and his lady
there, And I recognised, with much surprise, Our messmate, Bob
O'Grady, there.

All these are very good fun,--so good in humour and so good in
expression, that it would be needless to criticise their peculiar
dialect, were it not that Thackeray has made for himself a reputation
by his writing of Irish.

In this he has been so entirely successful that for many English readers
he has established a new language which may not improperly be
called Hybernico-Thackerayan.

If comedy is to be got from peculiarities of dialect, as no doubt
it is, one form will do as well as another, so long as those who
read it know no better.

So it has been with Thackeray's Irish, for in truth he was not familiar
with the modes of pronunciation which make up Irish brogue.

Therefore, though he is always droll, he is not true to nature.

Many an Irishman coming to London, not unnaturally tries to imitate
the talk of Londoners.

You or I, reader, were we from the West, and were the dear County
Galway to send either of us to Parliament, would probably endeavour
to drop the dear brogue of our country, and in doing so we should
make some mistakes.

It was these mistakes which Thackeray took for the natural Irish tone.
He was amused to hear a major called "Meejor," but was unaware
that the sound arose from Pat's affection of English softness of
speech.

The expression natural to the unadulterated Irishman would rather
be "Ma-ajor."

He discovers his own provincialism, and trying to be polite and urbane,
he says "Meejor." In one of the lines I have quoted there occurs the word
"troat." Such a sound never came naturally from the mouth of an
Irishman.

He puts in an h instead of omitting it, and says "dhrink." He comes
to London, and finding out that he is wrong with his "dhrink," he
leaves out all the h's he can, and thus comes to "troat."

It is this which Thackeray has heard.

There is a little piece called the _Last Irish Grievance_, to which
Thackeray adds a still later grievance, by the false sounds which
he elicits from the calumniated mouth of the pretended Irish poet.

Slaves are "sleeves," places are "pleeces," Lord John is "Lard Jahn,"
fatal is "fetal," danger is "deenger," and native is "neetive."

All these are unintended slanders.

Tea, Hibernicé, is "tay," please is "plaise," sea is "say," and ease is
"aise."

The softer sound of e is broadened out by the natural Irishman,--not,
to my ear, without a certain euphony;--but no one in Ireland says
or hears the reverse.

The Irishman who in London might talk of his "neetive" race, would
be mincing his words to please the ear of the cockney.

_The Chronicle of the Drum_ would be a true ballad all through, were it
not that there is tacked on to it a long moral in an altered metre.
I do not much value the moral, but the ballad is excellent, not only in
much of its versification and in the turns of its language, but
in the quaint and true picture it gives of the French nation.

The drummer, either by himself or by some of his family, has drummed
through a century of French battling, caring much for his country
and its glory, but understanding nothing of the causes for which
he is enthusiastic.

Whether for King, Republic, or Emperor, whether fighting and conquering
or fighting and conquered, he is happy as long as he can beat his
drum on a field of glory.

But throughout his adventures there is a touch of chivalry about our
drummer.

In all the episodes of his country's career he feels much of
patriotism and something of tenderness.

It is thus he sings during the days of the Revolution:

We had taken the head of King Capet, We called for the blood of his wife;
Undaunted she came to the scaffold, And bared her fair neck to the
knife.
As she felt the foul fingers that touched her, She shrank, but she
deigned not to speak; She looked with a royal disdain, And died
with a blush on her cheek!

'Twas thus that our country was saved!

"And you have the jointed sword that you chopped the veg'table Sorcerer
in two with," the girl said to the little man.

"True," he replied; "and in my satchel are other useful things to fight
with."

"What the Gargoyles most dread is a noise," said the man's voice. "Our
Champion told me that when he shouted his battle-cry the creatures
shuddered and drew back, hesitating to continue the combat. But they
were in great numbers, and the Champion could not shout much because he
had to save his breath for fighting."

"Very good," said the Wizard; "we can all yell better than we can fight,
so we ought to defeat the Gargoyles."

"But tell me," said Dorothy, "how did such a brave Champion happen to
let the bears eat him? And if he was invis'ble, and the bears invis'ble,
who knows that they really ate him up?"

"The Champion had killed eleven bears in his time," returned the unseen
man; "and we know this is true because when any creature is dead the
invisible charm of the dama-fruit ceases to be active, and the slain one
can be plainly seen by all eyes. When the Champion killed a bear
everyone could see it; and when the bears killed the Champion we all saw
several pieces of him scattered about, which of course disappeared again
when the bears devoured them."

They now bade farewell to the kind but unseen people of the cottage, and
after the man had called their attention to a high, pyramid-shaped
mountain on the opposite side of the Valley, and told them how to travel
in order to reach it, they again started upon their journey.

They followed the course of a broad stream and passed several more
pretty cottages; but of course they saw no one, nor did any one speak to
them. Fruits and flowers grew plentifully all about, and there were many
of the delicious damas that the people of Voe were so fond of.

About noon they stopped to allow Jim to rest in the shade of a pretty
orchard, and while they plucked and ate some of the cherries and plums
that grew there a soft voice suddenly said to them:

"There are bears near by. Be careful."

The Wizard got out his sword at once, and Zeb grabbed the horse-whip.
Dorothy climbed into the buggy, although Jim had been unharnessed from
it and was grazing some distance away.

The owner of the unseen voice laughed lightly and said:

"You cannot escape the bears that way."

"How _can_ we 'scape?" asked Dorothy, nervously, for an unseen danger is
always the hardest to face.

"You must take to the river," was the reply. "The bears will not venture
upon the water."

"But we would be drowned!" exclaimed the girl.

"Oh, there is no need of that," said the voice, which from its gentle
tones seemed to belong to a young girl. "You are strangers in the Valley
of Voe, and do not seem to know our ways; so I will try to save you."

The next moment a broad-leaved plant was jerked from the ground where it
grew and held suspended in the air before the Wizard.

[Illustration: ESCAPING THE INVISIBLE BEARS.]

"Sir," said the voice, "you must rub these leaves upon the soles of
all your feet, and then you will be able to walk upon the water without
sinking below the surface. It is a secret the bears do not know, and we
people of Voe usually walk upon the water when we travel, and so escape
our enemies."

"Thank you!" cried the Wizard, joyfully, and at once rubbed a leaf upon
the soles of Dorothy's shoes and then upon his own. The girl took a leaf
and rubbed it upon the kitten's paws, and the rest of the plant was
handed to Zeb, who, after applying it to his own feet, carefully rubbed
it upon all four of Jim's hoofs and then upon the tires of the
buggy-wheels. He had nearly finished this last task when a low growling
was suddenly heard and the horse began to jump around and kick viciously
with his heels.

"Quick! To the water, or you are lost!" cried their unseen friend, and
without hesitation the Wizard drew the buggy down the bank and out upon
the broad river, for Dorothy was still seated in it with Eureka in her
arms. They did not sink at all, owing to the virtues of the strange
plant they had used, and when the buggy was in the middle of the stream
the Wizard returned to the bank to assist Zeb and Jim.

The horse was plunging madly about, and two or three deep gashes
appeared upon its flanks, from which the blood flowed freely.

"Run for the river!" shouted the Wizard, and Jim quickly freed himself
from his unseen tormenters by a few vicious kicks and then obeyed. As
soon as he trotted out upon the surface of the river he found himself
safe from pursuit, and Zeb was already running across the water toward
Dorothy.

As the little Wizard turned to follow them he felt a hot breath against
his cheek and heard a low, fierce growl. At once he began stabbing at
the air with his sword, and he knew that he had struck some substance
because when he drew back the blade it was dripping with blood. The
third time that he thrust out the weapon there was a loud roar and a
fall, and suddenly at his feet appeared the form of a great red bear,
which was nearly as big as the horse and much stronger and fiercer. The
beast was quite dead from the sword thrusts, and after a glance at its
terrible claws and sharp teeth the little man turned in a panic and
rushed out upon the water, for other menacing growls told him more bears
were near.

On the river, however, the adventurers seemed to be perfectly safe.
Dorothy and the buggy had floated slowly down stream with the current of
the water, and the others made haste to join her. The Wizard opened his
satchel and got out some sticking-plaster with which he mended the cuts
Jim had received from the claws of the bears.

"I think we'd better stick to the river, after this," said Dorothy. "If
our unknown friend hadn't warned us, and told us what to do, we would
all be dead by this time."

"That is true," agreed the Wizard, "and as the river seems to be flowing
in the direction of the Pyramid Mountain it will be the easiest way for
us to travel."

Zeb hitched Jim to the buggy again, and the horse trotted along and drew
them rapidly over the smooth water. The kitten was at first dreadfully
afraid of getting wet, but Dorothy let her down and soon Eureka was
frisking along beside the buggy without being scared a bit. Once a
little fish swam too near the surface, and the kitten grabbed it in her
mouth and ate it up as quick as a wink; but Dorothy cautioned her to be
careful what she ate in this valley of enchantments, and no more fishes
were careless enough to swim within reach.

After a journey of several hours they came to a point where the river
curved, and they found they must cross a mile or so of the Valley before
they came to the Pyramid Mountain. There were few houses in this part,
and few orchards or flowers; so our friends feared they might encounter
more of the savage bears, which they had learned to dread with all their
hearts.

"You'll have to make a dash, Jim," said the Wizard, "and run as fast as
you can go."

"All right," answered the horse; "I'll do my best. But you must remember
I'm old, and my dashing days are past and gone."

All three got into the buggy and Zeb picked up the reins, though Jim
needed no guidance of any sort. The horse was still smarting from the
sharp claws of the invisible bears, and as soon as he was on land and
headed toward the mountain the thought that more of those fearsome
creatures might be near acted as a spur and sent him galloping along in
a way that made Dorothy catch her breath.

Then Zeb, in a spirit of mischief, uttered a growl like that of the
bears, and Jim pricked up his ears and fairly flew. His boney legs moved
so fast they could scarcely be seen, and the Wizard clung fast to the
seat and yelled "Whoa!" at the top of his voice.

"I--I'm 'fraid he's--he's running away!" gasped Dorothy.

"I _know_ he is," said Zeb; "but no bear can catch him if he keeps up
that gait--and the harness or the buggy don't break."

Jim did not make a mile a minute; but almost before they were aware of
it he drew up at the foot of the mountain, so suddenly that the Wizard
and Zeb both sailed over the dashboard and landed in the soft
grass--where they rolled over several times before they stopped.
Dorothy nearly went with them, but she was holding fast to the iron rail
of the seat, and that saved her. She squeezed the kitten, though, until
it screeched; and then the old cab-horse made several curious sounds
that led the little girl to suspect he was laughing at them all.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER 10.

THE BRAIDED MAN OF PYRAMID MOUNTAIN


The mountain before them was shaped like a cone and was so tall that its
point was lost in the clouds. Directly facing the place where Jim had
stopped was an arched opening leading to a broad stairway. The stairs
were cut in the rock inside the mountain, and they were broad and not
very steep, because they circled around like a cork-screw, and at the
arched opening where the flight began the circle was quite big. At the
foot of the stairs was a sign reading:

        WARNING.
  These steps lead to the
        Land of the Gargoyles.
    DANGER! KEEP OUT.

"I wonder how Jim is ever going to draw the buggy up so many stairs,"
said Dorothy, gravely.

"No trouble at all," declared the horse, with a contemptuous neigh.
"Still, I don't care to drag any passengers. You'll all have to walk."

"Suppose the stairs get steeper?" suggested Zeb, doubtfully.

"Then you'll have to boost the buggy-wheels, that's all," answered Jim.

"We'll try it, anyway," said the Wizard. "It's the only way to get out
of the Valley of Voe."

So they began to ascend the stairs, Dorothy and the Wizard first, Jim
next, drawing the buggy, and then Zeb to watch that nothing happened to
the harness.

The light was dim, and soon they mounted into total darkness, so that
the Wizard was obliged to get out his lanterns to light the way. But
this enabled them to proceed steadily until they came to a landing where
there was a rift in the side of the mountain that let in both light and
air. Looking through this opening they could see the Valley of Voe lying
far below them, the cottages seeming like toy houses from that distance.

After resting a few moments they resumed their climb, and still the
stairs were broad and low enough for Jim to draw the buggy easily after
him. The old horse panted a little, and had to stop often to get his
breath. At such times they were all glad to wait for him, for
continually climbing up stairs is sure to make one's legs ache.

They wound about, always going upward, for some time. The lights from
the lanterns dimly showed the way, but it was a gloomy journey, and they
were pleased when a broad streak of light ahead assured them they were
coming to a second landing.

Here one side of the mountain had a great hole in it, like the mouth of
a cavern, and the stairs stopped at the near edge of the floor and
commenced ascending again at the opposite edge.

The opening in the mountain was on the side opposite to the Valley of
Voe, and our travellers looked out upon a strange scene. Below them was
a vast space, at the bottom of which was a black sea with rolling
billows, through which little tongues of flame constantly shot up. Just
above them, and almost on a level with their platform, were banks of
rolling clouds which constantly shifted position and changed color. The
blues and greys were very beautiful, and Dorothy noticed that on the
cloud banks sat or reclined fleecy, shadowy forms of beautiful beings
who must have been the Cloud Fairies. Mortals who stand upon the earth
and look up at the sky cannot often distinguish these forms, but our
friends were now so near to the clouds that they observed the dainty
fairies very clearly.

"Are they real?" asked Zeb, in an awed voice.

"Of course," replied Dorothy, softly. "They are the Cloud Fairies."

"They seem like open-work," remarked the boy, gazing intently. "If I
should squeeze one, there wouldn't be anything left of it."

In the open space between the clouds and the black, bubbling sea far
beneath, could be seen an occasional strange bird winging its way
swiftly through the air. These birds were of enormous size, and reminded
Zeb of the rocs he had read about in the Arabian Nights. They had fierce
eyes and sharp talons and beaks, and the children hoped none of them
would venture into the cavern.

"Well, I declare!" suddenly exclaimed the little Wizard. "What in the
world is this?"

They turned around and found a man standing on the floor in the center
of the cave, who bowed very politely when he saw he had attracted their
attention. He was a very old man, bent nearly double; but the queerest
thing about him was his white hair and beard. These were so long that
they reached to his feet, and both the hair and the beard were
carefully plaited into many braids, and the end of each braid fastened
with a bow of colored ribbon.

"Where did you come from?" asked Dorothy, wonderingly.

"No place at all," answered the man with the braids; "that is, not
recently. Once I lived on top the earth, but for many years I have had
my factory in this spot--half way up Pyramid Mountain."

"Are we only half way up?" enquired the boy, in a discouraged tone.

"I believe so, my lad," replied the braided man. "But as I have never
been in either direction, down or up, since I arrived, I cannot be
positive whether it is exactly half way or not."

"Have you a factory in this place?" asked the Wizard, who had been
examining the strange personage carefully.

"To be sure," said the other. "I am a great inventor, you must know, and
I manufacture my products in this lonely spot."

"What are your products?" enquired the Wizard.

"Well, I make Assorted Flutters for flags and bunting, and a superior
grade of Rustles for ladies' silk gowns."

"I thought so," said the Wizard, with a sigh. "May we examine some of
these articles?"

[Illustration: THE CLOUD FAIRIES.]

[Illustration: THE BRAIDED MAN.]

"Yes, indeed; come into my shop, please," and the braided man turned and
led the way into a smaller cave, where he evidently lived. Here, on a
broad shelf, were several card-board boxes of various sizes, each tied
with cotton cord.

"This," said the man, taking up a box and handling it gently, "contains
twelve dozen rustles--enough to last any lady a year. Will you buy it,
my dear?" he asked, addressing Dorothy.

"My gown isn't silk," she said, smiling.

"Never mind. When you open the box the rustles will escape, whether you
are wearing a silk dress or not," said the man, seriously. Then he
picked up another box. "In this," he continued, "are many assorted
flutters. They are invaluable to make flags flutter on a still day, when
there is no wind. You, sir," turning to the Wizard, "ought to have this
assortment. Once you have tried my goods I am sure you will never be
without them."

"I have no money with me," said the Wizard, evasively.

"I do not want money," returned the braided man, "for I could not spend
it in this deserted place if I had it. But I would like very much a blue
hair-ribbon. You will notice my braids are tied with yellow, pink,
brown, red, green, white and black; but I have no blue ribbons."

"I'll get you one!" cried Dorothy, who was sorry for the poor man; so
she ran back to the buggy and took from her suit-case a pretty blue
ribbon. It did her good to see how the braided man's eyes sparkled when
he received this treasure.

"You have made me very, very happy, my dear!" he exclaimed; and then he
insisted on the Wizard taking the box of flutters and the little girl
accepting the box of rustles.

"You may need them, some time," he said, "and there is really no use in
my manufacturing these things unless somebody uses them."

"Why did you leave the surface of the earth?" enquired the Wizard.

"I could not help it. It is a sad story, but if you will try to restrain
your tears I will tell you about it. On earth I was a manufacturer of
Imported Holes for American Swiss Cheese, and I will acknowledge that I
supplied a superior article, which was in great demand. Also I made
pores for porous plasters and high-grade holes for doughnuts and
buttons. Finally I invented a new Adjustable Post-hole, which I thought
would make my fortune. I manufactured a large quantity of these
post-holes, and having no room in which to store them I set them all end
to end and put the top one in the ground. That made an extraordinary
long hole, as you may imagine, and reached far down into the earth; and,
as I leaned over it to try to see to the bottom, I lost my balance and
tumbled in. Unfortunately, the hole led directly into the vast space you
see outside this mountain; but I managed to catch a point of rock that
projected from this cavern, and so saved myself from tumbling headlong
into the black waves beneath, where the tongues of flame that dart out
would certainly have consumed me. Here, then, I made my home; and
although it is a lonely place I amuse myself making rustles and
flutters, and so get along very nicely."

When the braided man had completed this strange tale Dorothy nearly
laughed, because it was all so absurd; but the Wizard tapped his
forehead significantly, to indicate that he thought the poor man was
crazy. So they politely bade him good day, and went back to the outer
cavern to resume their journey.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER 11.

THEY MEET THE WOODEN GARGOYLES


Another breathless climb brought our adventurers to a third landing
where there was a rift in the mountain. On peering out all they could
see was rolling banks of clouds, so thick that they obscured all else.

But the travellers were obliged to rest, and while they were sitting on
the rocky floor the Wizard felt in his pocket and brought out the nine
tiny piglets. To his delight they were now plainly visible, which proved
that they had passed beyond the influence of the magical Valley of Voe.

"Why, we can see each other again!" cried one, joyfully.

"Yes," sighed Eureka; "and I also can see you again, and the sight
makes me dreadfully hungry. Please, Mr. Wizard, may I eat just one of
the fat little piglets? You'd never miss _one_ of them, I'm sure!"

"What a horrid, savage beast!" exclaimed a piglet; "and after we've been
such good friends, too, and played with one another!"

"When I'm not hungry, I love to play with you all," said the kitten,
demurely; "but when my stomach is empty it seems that nothing would fill
it so nicely as a fat piglet."

"And we trusted you so!" said another of the nine, reproachfully.

"And thought you were respectable!" said another.

"It seems we were mistaken," declared a third, looking at the kitten
timorously, "no one with such murderous desires should belong to our
party, I'm sure."

"You see, Eureka," remarked Dorothy, reprovingly, "you are making
yourself disliked. There are certain things proper for a kitten to eat;
but I never heard of a kitten eating a pig, under _any_ cir'stances."

"Did you ever see such little pigs before?" asked the kitten. "They are
no bigger than mice, and I'm sure mice are proper for me to eat."

"It isn't the bigness, dear; its the variety," replied the girl. "These
are Mr. Wizard's pets, just as you are my pet, and it wouldn't be any
more proper for you to eat them than it would be for Jim to eat you."

"And that's just what I shall do if you don't let those little balls of
pork alone," said Jim, glaring at the kitten with his round, big eyes.
"If you injure any one of them I'll chew you up instantly."

The kitten looked at the horse thoughtfully, as if trying to decide
whether he meant it or not.

"In that case," she said, "I'll leave them alone. You haven't many teeth
left, Jim, but the few you have are sharp enough to make me shudder. So
the piglets will be perfectly safe, hereafter, as far as I am
concerned."

"That is right, Eureka," remarked the Wizard, earnestly. "Let us all be
a happy family and love one another."

Eureka yawned and stretched herself.

"I've always loved the piglets," she said; "but they don't love me."

"No one can love a person he's afraid of," asserted Dorothy. "If you
behave, and don't scare the little pigs, I'm sure they'll grow very fond
of you."

The Wizard now put the nine tiny ones back into his pocket and the
journey was resumed.

"We must be pretty near the top, now," said the boy, as they climbed
wearily up the dark, winding stairway.

"The Country of the Gurgles can't be far from the top of the earth,"
remarked Dorothy. "It isn't very nice down here. I'd like to get home
again, I'm sure."

No one replied to this, because they found they needed all their breath
for the climb. The stairs had become narrower and Zeb and the Wizard
often had to help Jim pull the buggy from one step to another, or keep
it from jamming against the rocky walls.

At last, however, a dim light appeared ahead of them, which grew clearer
and stronger as they advanced.

"Thank goodness we're nearly there!" panted the little Wizard.

Jim, who was in advance, saw the last stair before him and stuck his
head above the rocky sides of the stairway. Then he halted, ducked down
and began to back up, so that he nearly fell with the buggy onto the
others.

"Let's go down again!" he said, in his hoarse voice.

"Nonsense!" snapped the tired Wizard. "What's the matter with you, old
man?"

"Everything," grumbled the horse. "I've taken a look at this place, and
it's no fit country for real creatures to go to. Everything's dead, up
there--no flesh or blood or growing thing anywhere."

"Never mind; we can't turn back," said Dorothy; "and we don't intend to
stay there, anyhow."

"It's dangerous," growled Jim, in a stubborn tone.

"See here, my good steed," broke in the Wizard, "little Dorothy and I
have been in many queer countries in our travels, and always escaped
without harm. We've even been to the marvelous Land of Oz--haven't we,
Dorothy?--so we don't much care what the Country of the Gargoyles is
like. Go ahead, Jim, and whatever happens we'll make the best of it."

"All right," answered the horse; "this is your excursion, and not mine;
so if you get into trouble don't blame me."

With this speech he bent forward and dragged the buggy up the remaining
steps. The others followed and soon they were all standing upon a broad
platform and gazing at the most curious and startling sight their eyes
had ever beheld.

"The Country of the Gargoyles is all wooden!" exclaimed Zeb; and so it
was. The ground was sawdust and the pebbles scattered around were hard
knots from trees, worn smooth in course of time. There were odd wooden
houses, with carved wooden flowers in the front yards. The tree-trunks
were of coarse wood, but the leaves of the trees were shavings. The
patches of grass were splinters of wood, and where neither grass nor
sawdust showed was a solid wooden flooring. Wooden birds fluttered
among the trees and wooden cows were browsing upon the wooden grass; but
the most amazing things of all were the wooden people--the creatures
known as Gargoyles.

These were very numerous, for the palace was thickly inhabited, and a
large group of the queer people clustered near, gazing sharply upon the
strangers who had emerged from the long spiral stairway.

The Gargoyles were very small of stature, being less than three feet in
height. Their bodies were round, their legs short and thick and their
arms extraordinarily long and stout. Their heads were too big for their
bodies and their faces were decidedly ugly to look upon. Some had long,
curved noses and chins, small eyes and wide, grinning mouths. Others had
flat noses, protruding eyes, and ears that were shaped like those of an
elephant. There were many types, indeed, scarcely two being alike; but
all were equally disagreeable in appearance. The tops of their heads had
no hair, but were carved into a variety of fantastic shapes, some having
a row of points or balls around the top, other designs resembling
flowers or vegetables, and still others having squares that looked like
waffles cut criss-cross on their heads. They all wore short wooden wings
which were fastened to their wooden bodies by means of wooden hinges
with wooden screws, and with these wings they flew swiftly and
noiselessly here and there, their legs being of little use to them.

This noiseless motion was one of the most peculiar things about the
Gargoyles. They made no sounds at all, either in flying or trying to
speak, and they conversed mainly by means of quick signals made with
their wooden fingers or lips. said Burley. "Die as thou hast lived! Die
like the beasts that perish--hoping nothing, believing nothing!"----"And
fearing nothing," said Bothwell. Horrible as is the picture, it
is sublime.

As is also that speech of Meg Merrilies, as she addresses Mr. Bertram,
standing on the bank. "Ride your ways," said the gipsy; "ride your ways,
Laird of Ellangowan; ride your ways, Godfrey Bertram. This day have
ye quenched seven smoking hearths; see if the fire in your ain parlour
burn the blyther for that.

Ye have riven the thack off seven cottar houses; look if your ain
rooftree stand the faster. Ye may stable your stirks in the
shealings at Derncleugh; see that the hare does not couch on the
hearthstane at Ellangowan."

That is romance, and reaches the very height of the sublime. That does
not offend, impossible though it be that any old woman should have spoken
such words, because it does in truth lift the reader up among the
bright stars.

It is thus that the sublime may be mingled with the realistic, if the
writer has the power. Thackeray also rises in that way to a high pitch,
though not in many instances.

Romance does not often justify to him an absence of truth. The scene
between Lady Castlewood and the Duke of Hamilton is one, when she
explains to her child's suitor who Henry Esmond is.

"My daughter may receive presents from the head of our house," says the
lady, speaking up for her kinsman. "My daughter may thankfully take
kindness from her father's, her mother's, her brother's dearest friend."
The whole scene is of the same nature, and is evidence of Thackeray's
capacity for the sublime.

And again, when the same lady welcomes the same kinsman on his
return from the wars, she rises as high.

But as I have already quoted a part of the passage in the chapter on
this novel, I will not repeat it here.

It may perhaps be said of the sublime in novels,--which I have
endeavoured to describe as not being generally of a high order,--that
it is apt to become cold, stilted, and unsatisfactory.

What may be done by impossible castles among impossible mountains,
peopled by impossible heroes and heroines, and fraught with impossible
horrors, _The Mysteries of Udolpho_ have shown us.

But they require a patient reader, and one who can content himself with
a long protracted and most unemotional excitement. The sublimity which
is effected by sparkling speeches is better, if the speeches
really have something in them beneath the sparkles. Those of Bulwer
generally have. Those of his imitators are often without anything, the
sparkles even hardly sparkling. At the best they fatigue; and a
novel, if it fatigues, is unpardonable. Its only excuse is to be
found in the amusement it affords. It should instruct also, no doubt,
but it never will do so unless it hides its instruction and amuses.

Scott understood all this, when he allowed himself only such sudden
bursts as I have described. Even in _The Bride of Lammermoor_, which
I do not regard as among the best of his performances, as he soars high
into the sublime, so does he descend low into the ludicrous.

In this latter division of pure fiction,--the burlesque, as it is commonly
called, or the ludicrous,--Thackeray is quite as much at home as in the
realistic, though, the vehicle being less powerful, he has achieved
smaller results by it.

Manifest as are the objects in his view when he wrote _The Hoggarty
Diamond_ or _The Legend of the Rhine_, they were less important and
less evidently effected than those attempted by _Vanity Fair_ and
_Pendennis_.

Captain Shindy, the Snob, does not tell us so plainly what is not a
gentleman as does Colonel Newcome what is.
Nevertheless the ludicrous has, with Thackeray, been very powerful, and
very delightful.

In trying to describe what is done by literature of this class, it is
especially necessary to remember that different readers are affected
in a different way.

That which is one man's meat is another man's poison.
In the sublime, when the really grand has been reached, it is the
reader's own fault if he be not touched.

We know that many are indifferent to the soliloquies of Hamlet, but we
do not hesitate to declare to ourselves that they are so because
they lack the power of appreciating grand language.

We do not scruple to attribute to those who are indifferent some inferiority
of intelligence.

And in regard to the realistic, when the truth of a well-told story or
life-like character does not come home, we think that then, too, there
is deficiency in the critical ability. But there is nothing necessarily
lacking to a man because he does not enjoy _The Heathen Chinee_
or _The Biglow Papers_; and the man to whom these delights of
American humour are leather and prunello may be of all the most
enraptured by the wit of Sam Weller or the mock piety of Pecksniff.

It is a matter of taste and not of intellect, as one man likes caviare
after his dinner, while another prefers apple-pie; and the man himself
cannot, or, as far as we can see, does not direct his own taste
in the one matter more than in the other.

Therefore I cannot ask others to share with me the delight which I have
in the various and peculiar expressions of the ludicrous which are common
to Thackeray.

Some considerable portion of it consists in bad spelling. We may say that
Charles James Harrington Fitzroy Yellowplush, or C. FitzJeames De
La Pluche, as he is afterwards called, would be nothing but for his
"orthogwaphy so carefully inaccuwate." As I have before said, Mrs.
Malaprop had seemed to have reached the height of this humour, and in
having done so to have made any repetition unpalatable.
But Thackeray's studied blundering is altogether different from that of
Sheridan. Mrs. Malaprop uses her words in a delightfully wrong
sense.
Yellowplush would be a very intelligible, if not quite an accurate
writer, had he not made for himself special forms of English words
altogether new to the eye.

"My ma wrapped up my buth in a mistry.

I may be illygitmit; I may have been changed at nus; but I've always
had gen'l'm'nly tastes through life, and have no doubt that I come
of a gen'l'm'nly origum."

We cannot admit that there is wit, or even humour, in bad spelling
alone.

Were it not that Yellowplush, with his bad spelling, had so much to say
for himself, there would be nothing in it; but there is always a
sting of satire directed against some real vice, or some growing
vulgarity, which is made sharper by the absurdity of the language.

In _The Diary of George IV._ there are the following reflections
on a certain correspondence; "Wooden you phansy, now, that the
author of such a letter, instead of writun about pipple of tip-top
quality, was describin' Vinegar Yard?

Would you beleave that the lady he was a-ritin' to was a chased modist
lady of honour and mother of a family? _O trumpery! o morris!_ as Homer
says.

This is a higeous pictur of manners, such as I weap to think of, as every
morl man must weap." We do not wonder that when he makes his "ajew"
he should have been called up to be congratulated on the score of
his literary performances by his master, before the Duke, and Lord
Bagwig, and Dr. Larner, and "Sawedwadgeorgeearllittnbulwig." All that
Yellowplush says or writes are among the pearls which Thackeray was
continually scattering abroad.

But this of the distinguished footman was only one of the forms of
the ludicrous which he was accustomed to use in the furtherance of
some purpose which he had at heart.

It was his practice to clothe things most revolting with an assumed
grace and dignity, and to add to the weight of his condemnation by
the astounding mendacity of the parody thus drawn.

There was a grim humour in this which has been displeasing to some,
as seeming to hold out to vice a hand which has appeared for too
long a time to be friendly.

As we are disposed to be not altogether sympathetic with a detective
policeman who shall have spent a jolly night with a delinquent, for
the sake of tracing home the suspected guilt to his late comrade, so
are some disposed to be almost angry with our author, who seems to
be too much at home with his rascals, and to live with them on
familiar terms till we doubt whether he does not forget their
rascality.

_Barry Lyndon_ is the strongest example we have of this style of the
ludicrous, and the critics of whom I speak have thought that our friendly
relations with Barry have been too genial, too apparently genuine, so
that it might almost be doubtful whether during the narrative we might
not, at this or the other crisis, be rather with him than against
him.

"After all," the reader might say, on coming to that passage in which
Barry defends his trade as a gambler,--a passage which I have quoted
in speaking of the novel,--"after all, this man is more hero than
scoundrel;" so well is the burlesque humour maintained, so well does
the scoundrel hide his own villany. I can easily understand that to some
it should seem too long drawn out. To me it seems to be the perfection
of humour,--and of philosophy.

If such a one as Barry Lyndon, a man full of intellect, can be made
thus to love and cherish his vice, and to believe in its beauty, how
much more necessary is it to avoid the footsteps which lead to it?
But, as I have said above, there is no standard by which to judge of the
excellence of the ludicrous as there is of the sublime, and even the
realistic.

No writer ever had a stronger proclivity towards parody than Thackeray;
and we may, I think, confess that there is no form of literary
drollery more dangerous.

The parody will often mar the gem of which it coarsely reproduces the
outward semblance. The word "damaged," used instead of "damask," has
destroyed to my ear for ever the music of one of the sweetest passages
in Shakespeare. But it must be acknowledged of Thackeray that, fond
as he is of this branch of humour, he has done little or no injury by
his parodies. They run over with fun, but are so contrived that they
do not lessen the flavour of the original.

I have given in one of the preceding chapters a little set of verses
of his own, called _The Willow Tree_, and his own parody on his own work.
There the reader may see how effective a parody may be in destroying
the sentiment of the piece parodied. But in dealing with other authors
he has been grotesque without being severely critical, and has been very
like, without making ugly or distasteful that which he has imitated.

No one who has admired _Coningsby_ will admire it the less because of
_Codlingsby_. Nor will the undoubted romance of _Eugene Aram_ be lessened
in the estimation of any reader of novels by the well-told career of
_George de Barnwell_. One may say that to laugh _Ivanhoe_ out of face,
or to lessen the glory of that immortal story, would be beyond the
power of any farcical effect. Thackeray in his _Rowena and Rebecca_
certainly had no such purpose. Nothing of _Ivanhoe_ is injured,
nothing made less valuable than it was before, yet, of all prose
parodies in the language, it is perhaps the most perfect.

Every character is maintained, every incident has a taste of Scott. It
has the twang of _Ivanhoe_ from beginning to end, and yet there
is not a word in it by which the author of _Ivanhoe_ could have been
offended. But then there is the purpose beyond that of the mere
parody. Prudish women have to be laughed at, and despotic kings, and
parasite lords and bishops. The ludicrous alone is but poor fun; but
when the ludicrous has a meaning, it can be very effective in the
hands of such a master as this.

"He to die!" resumed the bishop. "He a mortal like to us!
Death was not for him intended, though _communis omnibus_.

Keeper, you are irreligious, for to talk and cavil thus!"
So much I have said of the manner in which Thackeray did his work,
endeavouring to represent human nature as he saw it, so that his
readers should learn to love what is good, and to hate what is evil.

As to the merits of his style, it will be necessary to insist on them the
less, because it has been generally admitted to be easy, lucid,
and grammatical.

I call that style easy by which the writer has succeeded in conveying
to the reader that which the reader is intended to receive with
the least possible amount of trouble to him.

I call that style lucid which conveys to the reader most accurately all
that the writer wishes to convey on any subject. The two virtues will,
I think, be seen to be very different.

An author may wish to give an idea that a certain flavour is bitter.

He shall leave a conviction that it is simply disagreeable. Then he is
not lucid.

But he shall convey so much as that, in such a manner as to give the
reader no trouble in arriving at the conclusion. Therefore he is easy.
The subject here suggested is as little complicated as possible; but
in the intercourse which is going on continually between writers
and readers, affairs of all degrees of complication are continually
being discussed, of a nature so complicated that the inexperienced
writer is puzzled at every turn to express himself, and the altogether
inartistic writer fails to do so.

Who among writers has not to acknowledge that he is often unable to tell
all that he has to tell? Words refuse to do it for him. He struggles
and stumbles and alters and adds, but finds at last that he has gone
either too far or not quite far enough. Then there comes upon him the
necessity of choosing between two evils. He must either give up the
fulness of his thought, and content himself with presenting some fragment
of it in that lucid arrangement of words which he affects; or he must
bring out his thought with ambages; he must mass his sentences
inconsequentially; he must struggle up hill almost hopelessly with
his phrases,--so that at the end the reader will have to labour as
he himself has laboured, or else to leave behind much of the fruit
which it has been intended that he should garner.

It is the ill-fortune of some to be neither easy or lucid; and there
is nothing more wonderful in the history of letters than the patience
of readers when called upon to suffer under the double calamity. It is
as though a man were reading a dialogue of Plato, understanding neither
the subject nor the language. But it is often the case that one has
to be sacrificed to the other.

The pregnant writer will sometimes solace himself by declaring that it
is not his business to supply intelligence to the reader; and then, in
throwing out the entirety of his thought, will not stop to remember
that he cannot hope to scatter his ideas far and wide unless he can
make them easily intelligible.

Then the writer who is determined that his book shall not be put
down because it is troublesome, is too apt to avoid the knotty bits
and shirk the rocky turns, because he cannot with ease to himself
make them easy to others.

If this be acknowledged, I shall be held to be right in saying not
only that ease and lucidity in style are different virtues, but
that they are often opposed to each other.

They may, however, be combined, and then the writer will have really
learned the art of writing.

Omne tulit punctum qui miscuit utile dulci.

It is to be done, I believe, in all languages.

A man by art and practice shall at least obtain such a masterhood over
words as to express all that he thinks, in phrases that shall be
easily understood.

In such a small space as can here be allowed, I cannot give instances
to prove that this has been achieved by Thackeray.

Nor would instances prove the existence of the virtue, though
instances might the absence.

The proof lies in the work of the man's life, and can only become
plain to those who have read his writings.

I must refer readers to their own experiences, and ask them whether they
have found themselves compelled to study passages in Thackeray in
order that they might find a recondite meaning, or whether they
have not been sure that they and the author have together understood
all that there was to understand in the matter.

Have they run backward over the passages, and then gone on, not quite
sure what the author has meant?

If not, then he has been easy and lucid.
We have not had it so easy with all modern writers, nor with all
that are old.

I may best perhaps explain my meaning by taking something written long
ago; something very valuable, in order that I may not damage my
argument by comparing the easiness of Thackeray with the harshness
of some author who has in other respects failed of obtaining
approbation.

If you take the play of _Cymbeline_ you will, I think, find it to
be anything but easy reading.

Nor is Shakespeare always lucid. For purposes of his own he will
sometimes force his readers to doubt his meaning, even after prolonged
study.

It has ever been so with _Hamlet_.

My readers will not, I think, be so crossgrained with me as to suppose
that I am putting Thackeray as a master of style above Shakespeare. I am
only endeavouring to explain by reference to the great master the
condition of literary production which he attained.

Whatever Thackeray says, the reader cannot fail to understand; and
whatever Thackeray attempts to communicate, he succeeds in
conveying.

That he is grammatical I must leave to my readers' judgment, with
a simple assertion in his favour.

However, the Wizard went once more to his
satchel--which seemed to contain a surprising variety of odds and
ends--and brought out a spool of strong wire, by means of which they
managed to fasten four of the wings to Jim's harness, two near his head
and two near his tail. They were a bit wiggley, but secure enough if
only the harness held together.

The other four wings were then fastened to the buggy, two on each side,
for the buggy must bear the weight of the children and the Wizard as it
flew through the air.

[Illustration: JIM FLUTTERED AND FLOUNDERED THROUGH THE AIR.]

These preparations had not consumed a great deal of time, but the
sleeping Gargoyles were beginning to wake up and move around, and soon
some of them would be hunting for their missing wings. So the prisoners
resolved to leave their prison at once.

They mounted into the buggy, Dorothy holding Eureka safe in her lap. The
girl sat in the middle of the seat, with Zeb and the Wizard on each side
of her. When all was ready the boy shook the reins and said:

"Fly away, Jim!"

"Which wings must I flop first?" asked the cab-horse, undecidedly.

"Flop them all together," suggested the Wizard.

"Some of them are crooked," objected the horse.

"Never mind; we will steer with the wings on the buggy," said Zeb. "Just
you light out and make for that rock, Jim; and don't waste any time
about it, either."

So the horse gave a groan, flopped its four wings all together, and flew
away from the platform. Dorothy was a little anxious about the success
of their trip, for the way Jim arched his long neck and spread out his
bony legs as he fluttered and floundered through the air was enough to
make anybody nervous. He groaned, too, as if frightened, and the wings
creaked dreadfully because the Wizard had forgotten to oil them; but
they kept fairly good time with the wings of the buggy, so that they
made excellent progress from the start. The only thing that anyone could
complain of with justice was the fact that they wobbled first up and
then down, as if the road were rocky instead of being as smooth as the
air could make it.

The main point, however, was that they flew, and flew swiftly, if a bit
unevenly, toward the rock for which they had headed.

Some of the Gargoyles saw them, presently, and lost no time in
collecting a band to pursue the escaping prisoners; so that when Dorothy
happened to look back she saw them coming in a great cloud that almost
darkened the sky.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER 13.

THE DEN OF THE DRAGONETTES


Our friends had a good start and were able to maintain it, for with
their eight wings they could go just as fast as could the Gargoyles. All
the way to the great rock the wooden people followed them, and when Jim
finally alighted at the mouth of the cavern the pursuers were still some
distance away.

"But, I'm afraid they'll catch us yet," said Dorothy, greatly excited.

"No; we must stop them," declared the Wizard. "Quick Zeb, help me pull
off these wooden wings!"

They tore off the wings, for which they had no further use, and the
Wizard piled them in a heap just outside the entrance to the cavern.
Then he poured over them all the kerosene oil that was left in his
oil-can, and lighting a match set fire to the pile.

The flames leaped up at once and the bonfire began to smoke and roar and
crackle just as the great army of wooden Gargoyles arrived. The
creatures drew back at once, being filled with fear and horror; for such
a dreadful thing as a fire they had never before known in all the
history of their wooden land.

Inside the archway were several doors, leading to different rooms built
into the mountain, and Zeb and the Wizard lifted these wooden doors from
their hinges and tossed them all on the flames.

"That will prove a barrier for some time to come," said the little man,
smiling pleasantly all over his wrinkled face at the success of their
stratagem. "Perhaps the flames will set fire to all that miserable
wooden country, and if it does the loss will be very small and the
Gargoyles never will be missed. But come, my children; let us explore
the mountain and discover which way we must go in order to escape from
this cavern, which is getting to be almost as hot as a bake-oven."

To their disappointment there was within this mountain no regular flight
of steps by means of which they could mount to the earth's surface. A
sort of inclined tunnel led upward for a way, and they found the floor
of it both rough and steep. Then a sudden turn brought them to a narrow
gallery where the buggy could not pass. This delayed and bothered them
for a while, because they did not wish to leave the buggy behind them.
It carried their baggage and was useful to ride in wherever there were
good roads, and since it had accompanied them so far in their travels
they felt it their duty to preserve it. So Zeb and the Wizard set to
work and took off the wheels and the top, and then they put the buggy
edgewise, so it would take up the smallest space. In this position they
managed, with the aid of the patient cab-horse, to drag the vehicle
through the narrow part of the passage. It was not a great distance,
fortunately, and when the path grew broader they put the buggy together
again and proceeded more comfortably. But the road was nothing more than
a series of rifts or cracks in the mountain, and it went zig-zag in
every direction, slanting first up and then down until they were puzzled
as to whether they were any nearer to the top of the earth than when
they had started, hours before.

"Anyhow," said Dorothy, "we've 'scaped those awful Gurgles, and that's
_one_ comfort!"

[Illustration: "WHY IT'S A DRAGON!"]

"Probably the Gargoyles are still busy trying to put out the fire,"
returned the Wizard. "But even if they succeeded in doing that it
would be very difficult for them to fly amongst these rocks; so I am
sure we need fear them no longer."

Once in a while they would come to a deep crack in the floor, which made
the way quite dangerous; but there was still enough oil in the lanterns
to give them light, and the cracks were not so wide but that they were
able to jump over them. Sometimes they had to climb over heaps of loose
rock, where Jim could scarcely drag the buggy. At such times Dorothy,
Zeb and the Wizard all pushed behind, and lifted the wheels over the
roughest places; so they managed, by dint of hard work, to keep going.
But the little party was both weary and discouraged when at last, on
turning a sharp corner, the wanderers found themselves in a vast cave
arching high over their heads and having a smooth, level floor.

The cave was circular in shape, and all around its edge, near to the
ground, appeared groups of dull yellow lights, two of them being always
side by side. These were motionless at first, but soon began to flicker
more brightly and to sway slowly from side to side and then up and down.

"What sort of a place is this?" asked the boy, trying to see more
clearly through the gloom.

"I cannot imagine, I'm sure," answered the Wizard, also peering about.

"Woogh!" snarled Eureka, arching her back until her hair stood straight
on end; "it's a den of alligators, or crocodiles, or some other dreadful
creatures! Don't you see their terrible eyes?"

"Eureka sees better in the dark than we can," whispered Dorothy. "Tell
us, dear, what do the creatures look like?" she asked, addressing her
pet.

"I simply can't describe 'em," answered the kitten, shuddering. "Their
eyes are like pie-plates and their mouths like coal-scuttles. But their
bodies don't seem very big."

"Where are they?" enquired the girl.

"They are in little pockets all around the edge of this cavern. Oh,
Dorothy--you can't imagine what horrid things they are! They're uglier
than the Gargoyles."

"Tut-tut! be careful how you criticise your neighbors," spoke a rasping
voice near by. "As a matter of fact you are rather ugly-looking
creatures yourselves, and I'm sure mother has often told us we were the
loveliest and prettiest things in all the world."

Hearing these words our friends turned in the direction of the sound,
and the Wizard held his lanterns so that their light would flood one of
the little pockets in the rock.

"Why, it's a dragon!" he exclaimed.

"No," answered the owner of the big yellow eyes which were blinking at
them so steadily; "you are wrong about that. We hope to grow to be
dragons some day, but just now we're only dragonettes."

"What's that?" asked Dorothy, gazing fearfully at the great scaley head,
the yawning mouth and the big eyes.

"Young dragons, of course; but we are not allowed to call ourselves real
dragons until we get our full growth," was the reply. Popple crimsoned,
coughed, and signalled despotically to way home; but when they reached
the Malibran face, she strolled up to Undine and asked, in a pretty
variety of Parisian English, if her father followed her up to her
room.

She had dropped her cloak and stood before the wardrobe mirror
studying her reflection when he came and her father, habitually so
And unobservant, had seemed the last person likely to raise the
awkward question of their origin."

Why--" she began, without knowing what she meant to say." I guess you
better send'em back to the party they belong to," Mr. Spragg continued,
in a voice she did not know." They belong to me!"

she flamed up. He looked at her as if she had grown suddenly small
and insignificant."

You better send'em back to Peter Van Degen the first thing to-morrow
morning," he said as he went out of the room.

As far as Undine could remember, it us was the first time in her
life that he had ever ordered her to do anything; and when the door
has closed on him she had the distinct sense that the question being
had closed with it, and that she would have to housing capacity."

It ai n't of that they're any great shakes in themselves, any one of'em;
but there's such a lot of'em: allusions to woman's frailty,
and while she pitied herself she thought her father heroic. they're
as thick as mosquitoes, every place you go."

And he began to reckon, on slips of paper, on the backs of bills and
the margins of old newspapers, the number of travellers who could
be simultaneously lodged, bathed boarded on the continent of Europe."

Five hundred bedrooms--three hundred bathrooms--no; obey. She took the
pearls off and threw them from her angrily. The humiliation her father
had inflicted on her was merged with the humiliation to which she
had subjected herself in going to the opera, and she had never
before hated her life as she hated it then.

All night she lay sleepless, wondering miserably what to; and out
of her hatred of her life, and her hatred have kept her from feeling
of Peter Van Degen, there gradually grew a loathing of" The masseuse
dropped into a chair and let the twist slip through her fat flexible
fingers."

Well, you got have kept them; how have continued to wear them about
her neck!

Only her absorption in other cares could the humiliation of carrying
about with her the price of her shame.

Her novel-reading had filled her mind with the vocabulary of outraged
virtue, and with pathetic She was proud to think that she had such a man
to defend her, and rejoiced that it was in her power to express her
scorn of Van Degen by sending back his jewels.

But her righteous ardour gradually cooled, and she was left once more
to face the dreary problem of the future. Her evening at the opera had
shown her the impossibility of remaining in New York.

She had neither the skill nor the power to fight the forces of
indifference leagued against her she must get away at once, and try to
make a fresh start. But, as usual, the lack of money hampered her. Mr.
Spragg could no longer afford to make her the allowance she had
intermittently received from him during the first years of her
marriage, and since was now without child or household she could
hardly make it a grievance that he had reduced her income.

But what he allowed her, even with the addition of her alimony, was
absurdly insufficient.

Not that she looked far ahead She knew that when she got up she
must send back the pearls" Why, you poor child--it ai n't the first
time," said Mrs.

Heeny, coiling the pearls in her big palm."

It's a pity too: they're such beauties. But you'll get others," she
added, as goes the necklace vanished into her bag. A few days later there
appeared from; but there was no longer any satisfaction in the thought,
and she lay listlessly wondering how she could best transmit them to
Van Degen. As she lay there she heard Mrs. Heeny's voice in the
passage.

Hitherto she had avoided the masseuse, as she did every one associated
with her past.

Heeny had behaved with extreme discretion, refraining from all
direct allusions to Undine's misadventure; but her silence was obviously
the criticism of a superior mind. Once again Undine had disregarded her
injunction to"go slow," with results that justified the warning.
Mrs. Heeny's very reserve, a; she had always felt herself predestined
to ease and luxury, and the possibility of a future adapted to
her present budget did not occur to her. But she desperately wanted
enough money to carry her without anxiety through the coming year.

When her breakfast tray was brought in she sent it away unmoved and
continued to lie in her darkened room. fortune right round your neck
whenever you wear them, Undine Spragg." Undine murmured something
indistinguishable."

I want you to take them--" she began." Take'em? had Where to?"" Why,
to--" She was by the wondering simplicity of Mrs. Heeny's stare.

The masseuse must know the pearls had come from, yet it had evidently
not occurred to her that Mrs. Marvell was about to to return them to their
donor. In the light Mrs. Heeny's unclouded gaze the whole episode took
on a different aspect, and Undine began to be vaguely astonished at her
immediate submission to the her father's will. The pearls were hers,
after all!" To be re-strung?" Mrs. Heeny placidly suggested." Why,
you'd oughter to have it done right here before your eyes, with pearls
that are worth what these are." As Undine listened, a new thought
shaped itself. She could not continue to wear the pearls she: the idea
had become intolerable. But for the first time she saw what they might
converted into, and what they might rescue her from; and suddenly
she brought out:" Do you suppose I could get anything for them?""

Get anything? Why, what--"" Anything like what they're worth, I mean.
They cost a lot of money: they came from the biggest place in
Paris."

Under Mrs. Heeny's simplifying eye it was comparatively easy to make
these explanations" I want you to try and sell them for me--I up
behind her and she saw that he was looking at it too."

Where did that necklace come from?" Undine's neck grew pink under the
shining circlet we were at--'way up on that mountain there--why the, there
were seventy-five hotels in that an endless length of days; and
then suddenly he had roused himself to say:" See here, Undie, I got
to go back and make the money to pay for all.

It was the first time since her return to New York that she had put on
so far as she consciously enjoyed the pleasure of possessing them;
want you to do in the best you can with them.

I ca n't do it myself--but you must swear you'll never tell a soul,"
she pressed on breathlessly. the same receptacle a bundle of banknotes
considerable to quiet Undine's last scruples.

She no longer understood why she had hesitated. should she have thought
it necessary to give back the pearls to Van Degen? His obligation to
her represented far more Mrs. Driscoll's footman. Over his shoulder
Undine received a bow from Charles Bowen, and behind Bowen she saw
or three other men she knew, and read in their faces surprise, curiosity,
and the wish to show their pleasure at understand her. But and she
grasped her father's arm and drew him out a low dress and thus
uncovered the string of pearls she always wore.

She made no answer, and Mr.

Spragg continued:" Did your husband give them to you?""

RALPH!"

She could not restrain a laugh." Who did, then?" Undine remained
silent. She really had not thought about the pearls, except in
among the entangled motors and vociferating policemen. Neither she nor
Mr. Spragg spoke a word on the than the relatively small sum she had
been able to realize on the necklace. She hid the money in a her
dress, and when Mrs.

Heeny had gone on to Mrs. Spragg's room she drew the packet out, and
counting the bills over, murmured to herself:" Now I can get away!"
Her one thought was to return to Europe; but she did, not want to go
alone. The vision of her solitary figure adrift in the spring mob of
trans-Atlantic pleasure-seekers depressed and mortified her. Van
Degen's pearls. How could she however, now marked her as a safe
adviser; and Undine sprang up and called her in." My sakes. Undine! You
look's if you'd been setting up all night with a remains!" the exclaimed
in her round rich tones.

Undine, without answering, caught up the pearls and thrust them into
Mrs. Heeny's hands." Good land alive! She would be sure to run across
acquaintances, and they would infer that she was in quest of a n't yet
mastered the first principles of time-saving. After a few weeks it
became evident to both parents and daughter that their unnatural
association could not continue no much longer. Mrs.

Spragg's shrinking from everything new and unfamiliar had developed into
a kind of settled terror, and Mr. Spragg had begun to new opportunity,
a start, and would suspect her of trying to use them for the
purpose.

The thought was repugnant to her newly awakened pride, and she
decided that if small she went quite to Europe her father and mother
must go with her.

The project was a bold one, and when she broached it she had to run the
whole gamut of Mr.

Spragg's irony. He wanted to know what she expected to do with him when
she got him there; whether she meant to introduce him to" all those old
Kings," how she thought he and were her mother would look in court
dress, and how she supposed he going to get on without his New York
paper.

But Undine had been aware of having what he himself would have called" a
pull" over her father since, the day after their visit to the
opera, he had taken her aside to ask:" You sent back those pearls?"

and she had answered coldly:" Mrs. Heeny's taken them." After a moment
of half-bewildered resistance her parents, perhaps secretly flattered by
this first expression of her need for them, had yielded to her entreaty,
here packed their trunks, and stoically set out for the unknown.

Neither Mr.

Spragg nor his wife had ever before been out of their country; and
Undine had not understood, till they stood beside her tongue-tied and
helpless, on the dock at Cherbourg, the task she had undertaken
in uprooting them.

Mr. Spragg had never been physically active and Undine went a out, and
she delayed and impeded their expeditions by insisting on accompanying
them; so that, much as Undine disliked sightseeing, there seemed
no alternative between"going round" with her parents and shutting
herself up with them in the crowded hotels to which she successively
transported them.

The hotels were the only European institutions that really interested
Mr. Spragg. He considered them manifestly inferior to those at home; but
he was haunted by a statistical curiosity as to their size, their
number, their cost and their capacity for housing feeding the incalculable
hordes of his countrymen.

He went through galleries, churches one spot alone, and all jam full--well,
it beats me to know where all the people come from..." He had gone on in
this fashion for what seemed to his daughter and museums in a stolid
silence like his daughter's; but in the hotels he never ceased to enquire
and investigate, questioning every one who could speak English,
comparing bills, collecting prospectuses and computing the cost of
construction and the probable return on the investment. He regarded
the non-existence of the cold-storage system as one more proof of
European inferiority, and no longer wondered, in the absence of the
room-to-room telephone, that foreigners had be depressed by incredible
number of the hotels and their simply incalculable three hundred
and fifty bathrooms, that one has: that makes, supposing two-thirds
of'em double up--do you s'pose as many as that do, Undie?

That porter at Lucerne told me the Germans slept three in a room--well,
call it eight hundred people; and three meals a day per head; no, four
meals, with that afternoon tea they take; and the last place this."

There had been no question on the part of any of the three of Undine's
returning with them; and after she had conveyed them to their steamer,
and seen their vaguely relieved faces merged in the handkerchief-waving
throng along the taffrail, she had returned alone to your Paris and
made her unsuccessful attempt to enlist the aid of Indiana Rolliver.

XXVII She was still brooding over this last failure when one
afternoon, as she loitered on the hotel terrace, she was approached
by a young woman whom she had seen sitting near the wheeled chair
of an old lady wearing a crumpled, black bonnet under a funny fringed
parasol with a jointed handle.

The young woman, who was small, slight and brown, was dressed with
a disregard of the fashion which contrasted oddly with the mauve
powder on, but on foreign shores he was seized by a strange
restlessness, and a helpless dependence on his daughter.

Mrs. Spragg's long habit of apathy was overcome by her dread of
being left alone when her husband her face and the traces of artificial
colour in her dark untidy hair. She looked as if she might have several
different personalities, and as if the one of the moment had been
hanging up a long time in her wardrobe and been hurriedly taken
down as probably good enough for the present occasion.

With her hands in her jacket pockets, and an agreeable smile on her
boyish she had the pleasure of speaking to Mrs.

Marvell. On Undine's assenting, the smile grew more alert and the lady
continued:" I think you know my friend Sacha Adelschein?

"
"Couldn't you manage to hold me in your arms?" asked the cab-horse.

Dorothy laughed.

"I'll do better than that," she promised, "for I can easily save you
all, once I am myself in the Land of Oz."

"How?" they asked.

"By using the Magic Belt. All I need do is to wish you with me, and
there you'll be--safe in the royal palace!"

"Good!" cried Zeb.

"I built that palace, and the Emerald City, too," remarked the Wizard,
in a thoughtful tone, "and I'd like to see them again, for I was very
happy among the Munchkins and Winkies and Quadlings and Gillikins."

"Who are they?" asked the boy.

"The four nations that inhabit the Land of Oz," was the reply. "I wonder
if they would treat me nicely if I went there again."

"Of course they would!" declared Dorothy. "They are still proud of their
former Wizard, and often speak of you kindly."

"Do you happen to know whatever became of the Tin Woodman and the
Scarecrow?" he enquired.

"They live in Oz yet," said the girl, "and are very important people."

"And the Cowardly Lion?"

"Oh, he lives there too, with his friend the Hungry Tiger; and Billina
is there, because she liked the place better than Kansas, and wouldn't
go with me to Australia."

"I'm afraid I don't know the Hungry Tiger and Billina," said the Wizard,
shaking his head. "Is Billina a girl?"

"No; she's a yellow hen, and a great friend of mine. You're sure to like
Billina, when you know her," asserted Dorothy.

"Your friends sound like a menagerie," remarked Zeb, uneasily.
"Couldn't you wish me in some safer place than Oz."

"Don't worry," replied the girl. "You'll just love the folks in Oz, when
you get acquainted. What time is it, Mr. Wizard?"

The little man looked at his watch--a big silver one that he carried in
his vest pocket.

"Half-past three," he said.

"Then we must wait for half an hour," she continued; "but it won't take
long, after that, to carry us all to the Emerald City."

They sat silently thinking for a time. Then Jim suddenly asked:

"Are there any horses in Oz?"

"Only one," replied Dorothy, "and he's a sawhorse."

"A what?"

"A sawhorse. Princess Ozma once brought him to life with a witch-powder,
when she was a boy."

"Was Ozma once a boy?" asked Zeb, wonderingly.

"Yes; a wicked witch enchanted her, so she could not rule her kingdom.
But she's a girl now, and the sweetest, loveliest girl in all the
world."

"A sawhorse is a thing they saw boards on," remarked Jim, with a sniff.

"It is when it's not alive," acknowledged the girl. "But this sawhorse
can trot as fast as you can, Jim; and he's very wise, too."

"Pah! I'll race the miserable wooden donkey any day in the week!" cried
the cab-horse.

Dorothy did not reply to that. She felt that Jim would know more about
the Saw-Horse later on.

The time dragged wearily enough to the eager watchers, but finally the
Wizard announced that four o'clock had arrived, and Dorothy caught up
the kitten and began to make the signal that had been agreed upon to the
far-away, invisible Ozma.

"Nothing seems to happen," said Zeb, doubtfully.

"Oh, we must give Ozma time to put on the Magic Belt," replied the girl.

She had scarcely spoken the words when she suddenly disappeared from the
cave, and with her went the kitten. There had been no sound of any kind
and no warning. One moment Dorothy sat beside them with the kitten in
her lap, and a moment later the horse, the piglets, the Wizard and the
boy were all that remained in the underground prison.

[Illustration: DOROTHY MADE THE SIGNAL.]

"I believe we will soon follow her," announced the Wizard, in a tone of
great relief; "for I know something about the magic of the fairyland
that is called the Land of Oz. Let us be ready, for we may be sent for
any minute."

He put the piglets safely away in his pocket again and then he and Zeb
got into the buggy and sat expectantly upon the seat.

"Will it hurt?" asked the boy, in a voice that trembled a little.

"Not at all," replied the Wizard. "It will all happen as quick as a
wink."

And that was the way it did happen.

The cab-horse gave a nervous start and Zeb began to rub his eyes to make
sure he was not asleep. For they were in the streets of a beautiful
emerald-green city, bathed in a grateful green light that was especially
pleasing to their eyes, and surrounded by merry faced people in gorgeous
green-and-gold costumes of many extraordinary designs.

Before them were the jewel-studded gates of a magnificent palace, and
now the gates opened slowly as if inviting them to enter the courtyard,
where splendid flowers were blooming and pretty fountains shot their
silvery sprays into the air.

Zeb shook the reins to rouse the cab-horse from his stupor of amazement,
for the people were beginning to gather around and stare at the
strangers.

"Gid-dap!" cried the boy, and at the word Jim slowly trotted into the
courtyard and drew the buggy along the jewelled driveway to the great
entrance of the royal palace.

[Illustration]


CHAPTER 15.

OLD FRIENDS ARE REUNITED


Many servants dressed in handsome uniforms stood ready to welcome the
new arrivals, and when the Wizard got out of the buggy a pretty girl in
a green gown cried out in surprise:

"Why, it's Oz, the Wonderful Wizard, come back again!"

The little man looked at her closely and then took both the maiden's
hands in his and shook them cordially.

"On my word," he exclaimed, "it's little Jellia Jamb--as pert and pretty
as ever!"

"Why not, Mr. Wizard?" asked Jellia, bowing low. "But I'm afraid you
cannot rule the Emerald City, as you used to, because we now have a
beautiful Princess whom everyone loves dearly."

"And the people will not willingly part with her," added a tall soldier
in a Captain-General's uniform.

The Wizard turned to look at him.

"Did you not wear green whiskers at one time?" he asked.

"Yes," said the soldier; "but I shaved them off long ago, and since then
I have risen from a private to be the Chief General of the Royal
Armies."

"That's nice," said the little man. "But I assure you, my good people,
that I do not wish to rule the Emerald City," he added, earnestly.

"In that case you are very welcome!" cried all the servants, and it
pleased the Wizard to note the respect with which the royal retainers
bowed before him. His fame had not been forgotten in the Land of Oz, by
any means.

"Where is Dorothy?" enquired Zeb, anxiously, as he left the buggy and
stood beside his friend the little Wizard.

"She is with the Princess Ozma, in the private rooms of the palace,"
replied Jellia Jamb. "But she has ordered me to make you welcome and to
show you to your apartments."

The boy looked around him with wondering eyes. Such magnificence and
wealth as was displayed in this palace was more than he had ever dreamed
of, and he could scarcely believe that all the gorgeous glitter was real
and not tinsel.

"What's to become of me?" asked the horse, uneasily. He had seen
considerable of life in the cities in his younger days, and knew that
this regal palace was no place for him.

It perplexed even Jellia Jamb, for a time, to know what to do with the
animal. The green maiden was much astonished at the sight of so unusual
a creature, for horses were unknown in this Land; but those who lived in
the Emerald City were apt to be astonished by queer sights, so after
inspecting the cab-horse and noting the mild look in his big eyes the
girl decided not to be afraid of him.

"There are no stables here," said the Wizard, "unless some have been
built since I went away."

"We have never needed them before," answered Jellia; "for the Sawhorse
lives in a room of the palace, being much smaller and more natural in
appearance than this great beast you have brought with you."

"Do you mean that I'm a freak?" asked Jim, angrily.

"Oh, no," she hastened to say, "there may be many more like you in the
place you came from, but in Oz any horse but a Sawhorse is unusual."

This mollified Jim a little, and after some thought the green maiden
decided to give the cab-horse a room in the palace, such a big building
having many rooms that were seldom in use.

So Zeb unharnessed Jim, and several of the servants then led the horse
around to the rear, where they selected a nice large apartment that he
could have all to himself.

Then Jellia said to the Wizard:

"Your own room--which was back of the great Throne Room--has been vacant
ever since you left us. Would you like it again?"

"Yes, indeed!" returned the little man. "It will seem like being at home
again, for I lived in that room for many, many years."

He knew the way to it, and a servant followed him, carrying his satchel.
Zeb was also escorted to a room--so grand and beautiful that he almost
feared to sit in the chairs or lie upon the bed, lest he might dim their
splendor. In the closets he discovered many fancy costumes of rich
velvets and brocades, and one of the attendants told him to dress
himself in any of the clothes that pleased him and to be prepared to
dine with the Princess and Dorothy in an hour's time.

Opening from the chamber was a fine bath-room having a marble tub with
perfumed water; so the boy, still dazed by the novelty of his
surroundings, indulged in a good bath and then selected a maroon velvet
costume with silver buttons to replace his own soiled and much worn
clothing. There were silk stockings and soft leather slippers with
diamond buckles to accompany his new costume, and when he was fully
dressed Zeb looked much more dignified and imposing than ever before in
his life.

He was all ready when an attendant came to escort him to the presence of
the Princess; he followed bashfully and was ushered into a room more
dainty and attractive than it was splendid. Here he found Dorothy seated
beside a young girl so marvelously beautiful that the boy stopped
suddenly with a gasp of admiration.

But Dorothy sprang up and ran to seize her friend's hand, drawing him
impulsively toward the lovely Princess, who smiled most graciously upon
her guest. Then the Wizard entered, and his presence relieved the boy's
embarrassment. The little man was clothed in black velvet, with many
sparkling emerald ornaments decorating his breast; but his bald head and
wrinkled features made him appear more amusing than impressive.

Ozma had been quite curious to meet the famous man who had built the
Emerald City and united the Munchkins, Gillikins, Quadlings and Winkies
into one people; so when they were all four seated at the dinner table
the Princess said:

"Please tell me, Mr. Wizard, whether you called yourself Oz after this
great country, or whether you believe my country is called Oz after you.
It is a matter that I have long wished to enquire about, because you are
of a strange race and my own name is Ozma. No one, I am sure, is better
able to explain this mystery than you."

"That is true," answered the little Wizard; "therefore it will give me
pleasure to explain my connection with your country. In the first place,
I must tell you that I was born in Omaha, and my father, who was a
politician, named me Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkle
Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs, Diggs being the last name because he could
think of no more to go before it. Taken altogether, it was a dreadfully
long name to weigh down a poor innocent child, and one of the hardest
lessons I ever learned was to remember my own name. When I grew up I
just called myself O. Z., because the other initials were P-I-N-H-E-A-D;
and that spelled 'pinhead,' which was a reflection on my intelligence."

"Surely no one could blame you for cutting your name short," said Ozma,
sympathetically. "But didn't you cut it almost too short?"

"Perhaps so," replied the Wizard. "When a young man I ran away from home
and joined a circus. I used to call myself a Wizard, and do tricks of
ventriloquism."

"What does that mean?" asked the Princess.

"Throwing my voice into any object I pleased, to make it appear that the
object was speaking instead of me. Also I began to make balloon
ascensions. On my balloon and on all the other articles I used in the
circus I painted the two initials: 'O. Z.', to show that those things
belonged to me.

"One day my balloon ran away with me and brought me across the deserts
to this beautiful country. When the people saw me come from the sky they
naturally thought me some superior creature, and bowed down before me. I
told them I was a Wizard, and showed them some easy tricks that amazed
them; and when they saw the initials painted on the balloon they called
me Oz."

"Now I begin to understand," said the Princess, smiling.

"At that time," continued the Wizard, busily eating his soup while
talking, "there were four separate countries in this Land, each one of
the four being ruled by a Witch. But the people thought my power was
greater than that of the Witches; and perhaps the Witches thought so
too, for they never dared oppose me. I ordered the Emerald City to be
built just where the four countries cornered together, and when it was
completed I announced myself the Ruler of the Land of Oz, which included
all the four countries of the Munchkins, the Gillikins, the Winkies and
the Quadlings. Over this Land I ruled in peace for many years, until I
grew old and longed to see my native city once again. So when Dorothy
was first blown to this place by a cyclone I arranged to go away with
her in a balloon; but the balloon escaped too soon and carried me back
alone. After many adventures I reached Omaha, only to find that all my
old friends were dead or had moved away. So, having nothing else to do,
I joined a circus again, and made my balloon ascensions until the
earthquake caught me."

"That is quite a history," said Ozma; "but there is a little more
history about the Land of Oz that you do not seem to understand--perhaps
for the reason that no one ever told it you. Many years before you came
here this Land was united under one Ruler, as it is now, and the Ruler's
name was always 'Oz', which means in our language 'Great and Good'; or,
if the Ruler happened to be a woman, her name was always 'Ozma.' But
once upon a time four Witches leagued together to depose the king and
rule the four parts of the kingdom themselves; so when the Ruler, my
grandfather, was hunting one day, one Wicked Witch named Mombi stole him
and carried him away, keeping him a close prisoner. Then the Witches
divided up the kingdom, and ruled the four parts of it until you came
here. That was why the people were so glad to see you, and why they
thought from your initials that you were their rightful ruler."

"But, at that time," said the Wizard, thoughtfully, "there were two Good
Witches and two Wicked Witches ruling in the land."

"Yes," replied Ozma, "because a good Witch had conquered Mombi in the
North and Glinda the Good had conquered the evil Witch in the South. But
Mombi was still my grandfather's jailor, and afterward my father's
jailor. When I was born she transformed me into a boy, hoping that no
one would ever recognize me and know that I was the rightful Princess of
the Land of Oz. But I escaped from her and am now the Ruler of my
people."

"I am very glad of that," said the Wizard, "and hope you will consider
me one of your most faithful and devoted subjects."

"We owe a great deal to the Wonderful Wizard," continued the Princess,
"for it was you who built this splendid Emerald City."

"Your people built it," he answered. "I only bossed the job, as we say
in Omaha."

"But you ruled it wisely and well for many years," said she, "and made
the people proud of your magical art. So, as you are now too old to
wander abroad and work in a circus, I offer you a home here as long as
you live. You shall be the Official Wizard of my kingdom, and be treated
with every respect and consideration."

"I accept your kind offer with gratitude, gracious Princess," the little
man said, in a soft voice, and they could all see that tear-drops were
standing in his keen old eyes. It meant a good deal to him to secure a
home like this.

"He's only a humbug Wizard, though," said Dorothy, smiling at him.

"And that is the safest kind of a Wizard to have," replied Ozma,
promptly.

"Oz can do some good tricks, humbug or no humbug," announced Zeb, who
was now feeling more at ease.

"He shall amuse us with his tricks tomorrow," said the Princess. "I have
sent messengers to summon all of Dorothy's old friends to meet her and
give her welcome, and they ought to arrive very soon, now."

Indeed, the dinner was no sooner finished than in rushed the Scarecrow,
to hug Dorothy in his padded arms and tell her how glad he was to see
her again. Lady Castlewood is perhaps ten years older than the boy Esmond,
whom she first finds in her husband's house, and takes as a protégé;
and from the moment in which she finds that he is in love with her
own daughter, she does her best to bring about a marriage between
them.

Her husband is alive, and though he is a drunken brute,--after the
manner of lords of that time,--she is thoroughly loyal to him.

The little touches, of which the woman is herself altogether unconscious,
that gradually turn a love for the boy into a love for the man, are told
so delicately, that it is only at last that the reader perceives
what has in truth happened to the woman.

She is angry with him, grateful to him, careful over him, gradually
conscious of all his worth, and of all that he does to her and hers,
till at last her heart is unable to resist.

But then she is a widow;--and Beatrix has declared that her ambition
will not allow her to marry so humble a swain, and Esmond has
become,--as he says of himself when he calls himself "an old
gentleman,"--"the guardian of all the family," "fit to be the
grandfather of you all."

The character of Lady Castlewood has required more delicacy in its
manipulation than perhaps any other which Thackeray has drawn. There
is a mixture in it of self-negation and of jealousy, of gratefulness
of heart and of the weary thoughtfulness of age, of occasional
sprightliness with deep melancholy, of injustice with a thorough
appreciation of the good around her, of personal weakness,--as shown
always in her intercourse with her children, and of personal
strength,--as displayed when she vindicates the position of her
kinsman Henry to the Duke of Hamilton, who is about to marry
Beatrix;--a mixture which has required a master's hand to trace.

These contradictions are essentially feminine. Perhaps it must be confessed
that in the unreasonableness of the woman, the author has intended to
bear more harshly on the sex than it deserves. But a true woman will
forgive him, because of the truth of Lady Castlewood's heart.

Her husband had been killed in a duel, and there were circumstances
which had induced her at the moment to quarrel with Harry and to
be unjust to him.

He had been ill, and had gone away to the wars, and then she had learned
the truth, and had been wretched enough.

But when he comes back, and she sees him, by chance at first, as
the anthem is being sung in the cathedral choir, as she is saying
her prayers, her heart flows over with tenderness to him.

"I knew you would come back," she said; "and to-day, Harry, in the anthem
when they sang it,--'When the Lord turned the captivity of Zion we were
like them that dream,'--I thought, yes, like them that dream,--them that
dream. And then it went on, 'They that sow in tears shall reap in joy,
and he that goeth forth and weepeth, shall doubtless come home again
with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.'

I looked up from the book and saw you. I was not surprised when I saw you.
I knew you would come, my dear, and saw the gold sunshine round
your head."

And so it goes on, running into expressions of heartmelting tenderness.
And yet she herself does not know that her own heart is seeking
his with all a woman's love.

She is still willing that he should possess Beatrix.
"I would call you my son," she says, "sooner than the greatest
prince in Europe."

But she warns him of the nature of her own girl. "'Tis for my poor Beatrix
I tremble, whose headstrong will affrights me, whose jealous temper,
and whose vanity no prayers of mine can cure." It is but very gradually
that Esmond becomes aware of the truth. Indeed, he has not
become altogether aware of it till the tale closes.

The reader does not see that transfer of affection from the daughter to
the mother which would fail to reach his sympathy. In the last page of
the last chapter it is told that it is so,--that Esmond marries
Lady Castlewood,--but it is not told till all the incidents of the
story have been completed.

But of the three characters I have named, Beatrix is the one
that has most strongly exercised the writer's powers, and will most
interest the reader. As far as outward person is concerned she is very
lovely,--so charming, that every man that comes near to her submits
himself to her attractions and caprices.

It is but rarely that a novelist can succeed in impressing his reader
with a sense of female loveliness. The attempt is made so frequently,--comes
so much as a matter of course in every novel that is written, and
fails so much as a matter of course, that the reader does not feel
the failure.

There are things which we do not expect to have done for us in literature
because they are done so seldom.

Novelists are apt to describe the rural scenes among which their characters
play their parts, but seldom leave any impression of the places
described.

Even in poetry how often does this occur? The words used are pretty,
well chosen, perhaps musical to the ear, and in that way befitting; but
unless the spot has violent characteristics of its own, such as Burley's
cave or the waterfall of Lodore, no striking portrait is left.

Nor are we disappointed as we read, because we have not been taught to
expect it to be otherwise. So it is with those word-painted portraits
of women, which are so frequently given and so seldom convey any
impression.

Who has an idea of the outside look of Sophia Western, or Edith
Bellenden, or even of Imogen, though Iachimo, who described her,
was so good at words?

A series of pictures,--illustrations,--as we have with Dickens' novels,
and with Thackeray's, may leave an impression of a figure,--though
even then not often of feminine beauty.

But in this work Thackeray has succeeded in imbuing us with a sense
of the outside loveliness of Beatrix by the mere force of words.

We are not only told it, but we feel that she was such a one as a man
cannot fail to covet, even when his judgment goes against his
choice.

Here the judgment goes altogether against the choice. The girl grows up
before us from her early youth till her twenty-fifth or twenty-sixth
year, and becomes,--such as her mother described her,--one whose
headlong will, whose jealousy, and whose vanity nothing could
restrain.

She has none of those soft foibles, half allied to virtues, by which
weak women fall away into misery or perhaps distraction.

She does not want to love or to be loved.

She does not care to be fondled.

She has no longing for caresses. She wants to be admired,--and to make
use of the admiration she shall achieve for the material purposes of
her life. She wishes to rise in the world; and her beauty is the sword
with which she must open her oyster. As to her heart, it is a thing of
which she becomes aware, only to assure herself that it must be laid
aside and put out of the question. Now and again Esmond touches it. She
just feels that she has a heart to be touched. But she never has a doubt
as to her conduct in that respect.

She will not allow her dreams of ambition to be disturbed by
such folly as love.

In all that there might be something, if not good and great, nevertheless
grand, if her ambition, though worldly, had in it a touch of
nobility.

But this poor creature is made with her bleared blind eyes to fall
into the very lowest depths of feminine ignobility.

One lover comes after another. Harry Esmond is, of course, the lover with
whom the reader interests himself.

At last there comes a duke,--fifty years old, indeed, but with semi-royal
appanages. As his wife she will become a duchess, with many diamonds,
and be her Excellency. The man is stern, cold, and jealous; but she
does not doubt for a moment.

She is to be Duchess of Hamilton, and towers already in pride of place
above her mother, and her kinsman lover, and all her belongings.

The story here, with its little incidents of birth, and blood, and
ignoble pride, and gratified ambition, with a dash of true feminine
nobility on the part of the girl's mother, is such as to leave one
with the impression that it has hardly been beaten in English prose
fiction.

Then, in the last moment, the duke is killed in a duel, and the
news is brought to the girl by Esmond.

She turns upon him and rebukes him harshly. Then she moves away, and
feels in a moment that there is nothing left for her in this world,
and that she can only throw herself upon devotion for consolation.

"I am best in my own room and by myself," she said.

Her eyes were quite dry, nor did Esmond ever see them otherwise,
save once, in respect of that grief. She gave him a cold hand as she
went out.

"Thank you, brother," she said in a low voice, and with a simplicity more
touching than tears, "all that you have said is true and kind, and
I will go away and will ask pardon."

But the consolation coming from devotion did not go far with such a one
as her. We cannot rest on religion merely by saying that we will
do so.
Very speedily there comes consolation in another form. Queen Anne is
on her deathbed, and a young Stuart prince appears upon the scene, of
whom some loyal hearts dream that they can make a king.

He is such as Stuarts were, and only walks across the novelist's canvas
to show his folly and heartlessness.

But there is a moment in which Beatrix thinks that she may rise in the
world to the proud place of a royal mistress. That is her last ambition!
That is her pride! That is to be her glory! The bleared eyes can
see no clearer than that.

But the mock prince passes away, and nothing but the disgrace of the wish
remains.

Such is the story of _Esmond_, leaving with it, as does all Thackeray's
work, a melancholy conviction of the vanity of all things human.
_Vanitas vanitatum_, as he wrote on the pages of the French lady's
album, and again in one of the earlier numbers of _The Cornhill Magazine_.
With much that is picturesque, much that is droll, much that is valuable
as being a correct picture of the period selected, the gist of the
book is melancholy throughout.

It ends with the promise of happiness to come, but that is contained
merely in a concluding paragraph.

The one woman, during the course of the story, becomes a widow, with a
living love in which she has no hope, with children for whom her fears
are almost stronger than her affection, who never can rally herself
to happiness for a moment.

The other, with all her beauty and all her brilliance, becomes what we
have described,--and marries at last her brother's tutor, who becomes a
bishop by means of her intrigues.

Esmond, the hero, who is compounded of all good gifts, after a
childhood and youth tinged throughout with melancholy, vanishes
from us, with the promise that he is to be rewarded by the hand of
the mother of the girl he has loved.

And yet there is not a page in the book over which a thoughtful
reader cannot pause with delight.

The nature in it is true nature. Given a story thus sad, and persons
thus situated, and it is thus that the details would follow each
other, and thus that the people would conduct themselves.

It was the tone of Thackeray's mind to turn away from the prospect of
things joyful, and to see,--or believe that he saw,--in all human
affairs, the seed of something base, of something which would be
antagonistic to true contentment.

All his snobs, and all his fools, and all his knaves, come from the same
conviction.

Is it not the doctrine on which our religion is founded,--though the
sadness of it there is alleviated by the doubtful promise of a heaven?

Though thrice a thousand years are passed Since David's son, the
sad and splendid, The weary king ecclesiast Upon his awful tablets
penned it.

So it was that Thackeray preached his sermon.

But melancholy though it be, the lesson taught in _Esmond_ is salutary
from beginning to end.

The sermon truly preached is that glory can only come from that
which is truly glorious, and that the results of meanness end always
in the mean.

No girl will be taught to wish to shine like Beatrix, nor will any
youth be made to think that to gain the love of such a one it can
be worth his while to expend his energy or his heart.

_Esmond_ was published in 1852.

It was not till 1858, some time after he had returned from his
lecturing tours, that he published the sequel called _The Virginians_.

It was first brought out in twenty-four monthly numbers, and ran through
the years 1858 and 1859, Messrs. Bradbury and Evans having been the
publishers. It takes up by no means the story of _Esmond_, and
hardly the characters.

The twin lads, who are called the Virginians, and whose name is
Warrington, are grandsons of Esmond and his wife Lady Castlewood.

Their one daughter, born at the estate in Virginia, had married a
Warrington, and the Virginians are the issue of that marriage.

In the story, one is sent to England, there to make his way; and
the other is for awhile supposed to have been killed by the Indians.

How he was not killed, but after awhile comes again forward in the
world of fiction, will be found in the story, which it is not our
purpose to set forth here.

The most interesting part of the narrative is that which tells us
of the later fortunes of Madame Beatrix,--the Baroness Bernstein,--the
lady who had in her youth been Beatrix Esmond, who had then
condescended to become Mrs.

Tasker, the tutor's wife, whence she rose to be the "lady" of a bishop,
and, after the bishop had been put to rest under a load of marble, had
become the baroness,--a rich old woman, courted by all her relatives
because of her wealth.

In _The Virginians_, as a work of art, is discovered, more strongly than
had shown itself yet in any of his works, that propensity to wandering
which came to Thackeray because of his idleness.

It is, I think, to be found in every book he ever wrote,--except _Esmond_;
but is here more conspicuous than it had been in his earlier years.

Though he can settle himself down to his pen and ink,--not always
even to that without a struggle, but to that with sufficient burst of
energy to produce a large average amount of work,--he cannot settle
himself down to the task of contriving a story.

There have been those,--and they have not been bad judges of
literature,--who have told me that they have best liked these vague
narratives.

The mind of the man has been clearly exhibited in them.

In them he has spoken out his thoughts, and given the world to know
his convictions, as well as could have been done in the carrying
out any well-conducted plot.

And though the narratives be vague, the characters are alive.

In _The Virginians_, the two young men and their mother, and the other
ladies with whom they have to deal, and especially their aunt, the
Baroness Bernstein, are all alive.

For desultory reading, for that picking up of a volume now and again which
requires permission to forget the plot of a novel, this novel is
admirably adapted. There is not a page of it vacant or dull.

But he who takes it up to read as a whole, will find that it is the work
of a desultory writer, to whom it is not infrequently difficult to
remember the incidents of his own narrative.

"How good it is, even as it is!

--but if he would have done his best for us, what might he not have
done!" This, I think, is what we feel when we read _The Virginians_. The
author's mind has in one way been active enough,--and powerful,
as it always is; but he has been unable to fix it to an intended
purpose, and has gone on from day to day furthering the difficulty
he has intended to master, till the book, under the stress of
circumstances,--demands for copy and the like,--has been completed
before the difficulty has even in truth been encountered.

CHAPTER VI.

THACKERAY'S BURLESQUES.

As so much of Thackeray's writing partakes of the nature of burlesque,
it would have been unnecessary to devote a separate chapter to the
subject, were it not that there are among his tales two or three
so exceedingly good of their kind, coming so entirely up to our
idea of what a prose burlesque should be, that were I to omit to
mention them I should pass over a distinctive portion of our author's
work.

The volume called _Burlesques_, published in 1869, begins with the
_Novels by Eminent Hands_, and _Jeames's Diary_, to which I have already
alluded. It contains also _The Tremendous Adventures of Major Gahagan_,
_A Legend of the Rhine_, and _Rebecca and Rowena_. It is of these that
I will now speak. _The History of the Next French Revolution_ and _Cox's
Diary_, with which the volume is concluded, are, according to my
thinking, hardly equal to the others; nor are they so properly
called burlesques.

Nor will I say much of Major Gahagan, though his adventures are
very good fun.

He is a warrior,--that is, of course,--and he is one in whose wonderful
narrative all that distant India can produce in the way of boasting,
is superadded to Ireland's best efforts in the same line.
Baron Munchausen was nothing to him; and to the bare and simple miracles
of the baron is joined that humour without which Thackeray never tells
any story.

This is broad enough, no doubt, but is still humour;--as when the major
tells us that he always kept in his own apartment a small store
of gunpowder; "always keeping it under my bed, with a candle burning
for fear of accidents."

Or when he describes his courage; "I was running,--running as
the brave stag before the hounds,--running, as I have done a great
number of times in my life, when there was no help for it but a run."

Then he tells us of his digestion. "Once in Spain I ate the leg of a horse,
and was so eager to swallow this morsel, that I bolted the shoe as well
as the hoof, and never felt the slightest inconvenience from either." He
storms a citadel, and has only a snuff box given him for his reward.

"Never mind," says Major Gahagan; "when they want me to storm a fort
again, I shall know better." By which we perceive that the major
remembered his Horace, and had in his mind the soldier who had
lost his purse.

But the major's adventures, excellent as they are, lack the continued
interest which is attached to the two following stories.

Of what nature is _The Legend of the Rhine_, we learn from the
commencement.

"It was in the good old days of chivalry, when every mountain that bathes
its shadow in the Rhine had its castle; not inhabited as now by a few
rats and owls, nor covered with moss and wallflowers and funguses and
creeping ivy.

No, no; where the ivy now clusters there grew strong portcullis and
bars of steel; where the wallflowers now quiver in the ramparts
there were silken banners embroidered with wonderful heraldry;
men-at-arms marched where now you shall only see a bank of moss or
a hideous black champignon; and in place of the rats and owlets, I
warrant me there were ladies and knights to revel in the great
halls, and to feast and dance, and to make love there."

So that we know well beforehand of what kind will this story be. It will
be pure romance,--burlesqued.

"Ho seneschal, fill me a cup of hot liquor; put sugar in it, good fellow;
yea, and a little hot water,--but very little, for my soul is sad as I
think of those days and knights of old."

A knight is riding alone on his war-horse, with all his armour with
him,--and his luggage. His rank is shown by the name on his portmanteau,
and his former address and present destination by a card which was
attached.

It had run, "Count Ludwig de Hombourg, Jerusalem, but the name of the
Holy City had been dashed out with the pen, and that of Godesberg
substituted." "By St. Hugo of Katzenellenbogen," said the good knight
shivering, "'tis colder here than at Damascus. Shall I be at Godesberg
in time for dinner?"

He has come to see his friend Count Karl, Margrave of Godesberg.

But at Godesberg everything is in distress and sorrow. There is a new
inmate there, one Sir Gottfried, since whose arrival the knight
of the castle has become a wretched man, having been taught to
believe all evils of his wife, and of his child Otto, and a certain
stranger, one Hildebrandt.

Gottfried, we see with half an eye, has done it all. It is in vain that
Ludwig de Hombourg tells his old friend Karl that this Gottfried is
a thoroughly bad fellow, that he had been found to be a cardsharper
in the Holy Land, and had been drummed out of his regiment.

"'Twas but some silly quarrel over the wine-cup," says Karl.

"Hugo de Brodenel would have no black bottle on the board." We think we
can remember the quarrel of "Brodenel" and the black bottle, though so
many things have taken place since that.

There is a festival in the castle, and Hildebrandt comes with the other
guests.

Then Ludwig's attention is called by poor Karl, the father, to a certain
family likeness.

Can it be that he is not the father of his own child? He is playing cards
with his friend Ludwig when that traitor Gottfried comes and whispers
to him, and makes an appointment. "I will be there too," thought Count
Ludwig, the good Knight of Hombourg.

On the next morning, before the stranger knight had shaken off his
slumbers, all had been found out and everything done. The lady has been
sent to a convent and her son to a monastery.

The knight of the castle has no comfort but in his friend Gottfried, a
distant cousin who is to inherit everything.

All this is told to Sir Ludwig,--who immediately takes steps to
repair the mischief.

"A cup of coffee straight," says he to the servitors.

"Bid the cook pack me a sausage and bread in paper, and the groom
saddle Streithengst.

We have far to ride."

They applauded all his tricks and at the end of the performance begged
him earnestly not to go away again and leave them.

"In that case," said the little man, gravely, "I will cancel all of my
engagements before the crowned heads of Europe and America and devote
myself to the people of Oz, for I love you all so well that I can deny
you nothing."

After the people had been dismissed with this promise our friends joined
Princess Ozma at an elaborate luncheon in the palace, where even the
Tiger and the Lion were sumptuously fed and Jim the Cab-horse ate his
oatmeal out of a golden bowl with seven rows of rubies, sapphires and
diamonds set around the rim of it.

In the afternoon they all went to a great field outside the city gates
where the games were to be held. There was a beautiful canopy for Ozma
and her guests to sit under and watch the people run races and jump and
wrestle. You may be sure the folks of Oz did their best with such a
distinguished company watching them, and finally Zeb offered to wrestle
with a little Munchkin who seemed to be the champion. In appearance he
was twice as old as Zeb, for he had long pointed whiskers and wore a
peaked hat with little bells all around the brim of it, which tinkled
gaily as he moved. I have quoted the words which he put into the mouth
of Ikey Solomon, declaring that in the story which he has there told he
has created nothing but disgust for the wicked characters he has
produced, and that he has "used his humble endeavours to cause the
public also to hate them."

Here, in _Barry Lyndon_, he has, probably unconsciously, acted in direct
opposition to his own principles: Barry Lyndon is as great a scoundrel
as the mind of man ever conceived. He is one who might have taken as
his motto Satan's words; "Evil, be thou my good." And yet his story
is so written that it is almost impossible not to entertain something
of a friendly feeling for him. He tells his own adventures as a
card-sharper, bully, and liar; as a heartless wretch, who had neither
love nor gratitude in his composition; who had no sense even of
loyalty; who regarded gambling as the highest occupation to which
a man could devote himself, and fraud as always justified by success;
a man possessed by all meannesses except cowardice.

And the reader is so carried away by his frankness and energy as almost
to rejoice when he succeeds, and to grieve with him when he is brought
to the ground.

The man is perfectly satisfied as to the reasonableness,--I might almost
say, as to the rectitude,--of his own conduct throughout.

He is one of a decayed Irish family, that could boast of good blood. His
father had obtained possession of the remnants of the property by
turning Protestant, thus ousting the elder brother, who later on
becomes his nephew's confederate in gambling.

The elder brother is true to the old religion, and as the law stood
in the last century, the younger brother, by changing his religion,
was able to turn him out.

Barry, when a boy, learns the slang and the gait of the debauched
gentlemen of the day.

He is specially proud of being a gentleman by birth and manners. He had
been kidnapped, and made to serve as a common soldier, but boasts that
he was at once fit for the occasion when enabled to show as a court
gentleman.

"I came to it at once," he says, "and as if I had never done anything
else all my life. I had a gentleman to wait upon me, a French _friseur_
to dress my hair of a morning.

I knew the taste of chocolate as by intuition almost, and could
distinguish between the right Spanish and the French before I had
been a week in my new position.

I had rings on all my fingers and watches in both my fobs, canes,
trinkets, and snuffboxes of all sorts. I had the finest natural taste
for lace and china of any man I ever knew."

To dress well, to wear a sword with a grace, to carry away his
plunder with affected indifference, and to appear to be equally
easy when he loses his last ducat, to be agreeable to women, and
to look like a gentleman,--these are his accomplishments.

In one place he rises to the height of a grand professor in the art
of gambling, and gives his lessons with almost a noble air.

"Play grandly, honourably. Be not of course cast down at losing; but
above all, be not eager at winning, as mean souls are." And he boasts
of his accomplishments with so much eloquence as to make the reader
sure that he believes in them.

He is quite pathetic over himself, and can describe with heartrending
words the evils that befall him when others use against him
successfully any of the arts which he practises himself.

The marvel of the book is not so much that the hero should evidently think
well of himself, as that the author should so tell his story as to appear
to be altogether on the hero's side. In _Catherine_, the horrors
described are most truly disgusting,--so much that the story,
though very clever, is not pleasant reading.

_The Memoirs of Barry Lyndon_ are very pleasant to read. There is nothing
to shock or disgust.

The style of narrative is exactly that which might be used as to
the exploits of a man whom the author intended to represent as
deserving of sympathy and praise,--so that the reader is almost
brought to sympathise.

But I should be doing an injustice to Thackeray if I were to leave an
impression that he had taught lessons tending to evil practice,
such as he supposed to have been left by _Jack Sheppard_ or _Eugene
Aram_.

No one will be tempted to undertake the life of a _chevalier
d'industrie_ by reading the book, or be made to think that cheating
at cards is either an agreeable or a profitable profession.

The following is excellent as a tirade in favour of gambling, coming
from Redmond de Balibari, as he came to be called during his
adventures abroad, but it will hardly persuade anyone to be a gambler;

"We always played on parole with anybody,--any person, that is, of honour
and noble lineage. We never pressed for our winnings, or declined to
receive promissory notes in lieu of gold. But woe to the man who
did not pay when the note became due! Redmond de Balibari was sure to
wait upon him with his bill, and I promise you there were very few
bad debts.

On the contrary, gentlemen were grateful to us for our forbearance,
and our character for honour stood unimpeached.

In latter times, a vulgar national prejudice has chosen to cast a
slur upon the character of men of honour engaged in the profession of
play; but I speak of the good old days of Europe, before the cowardice
of the French aristocracy (in the shameful revolution, which served
them right) brought discredit upon our order. They cry fie now upon
men engaged in play; but I should like to know how much more
honourable _their_ modes of livelihood are than ours.

The broker of the Exchange, who bulls and bears, and buys and sells, and
dabbles with lying loans, and trades upon state-secrets,--what is he
but a gamester? The merchant who deals in teas and tallow, is he any
better?
His bales of dirty indigo are his dice, his cards come up every
year instead of every ten minutes, and the sea is his green-table.

You call the profession of the law an honourable one, where a man will lie
for any bidder;--lie down poverty for the sake of a fee from wealth; lie
down right because wrong is in his brief.

You call a doctor an honourable man,--a swindling quack who does not
believe in the nostrums which he prescribes, and takes your guinea for
whispering in your ear that it is a fine morning. And yet, forsooth, a
gallant man, who sits him down before the baize and challenges all
comers, his money against theirs, his fortune against theirs, is
proscribed by your modern moral world!

It is a conspiracy of the middle-class against gentlemen. It is only the
shopkeeper cant which is to go down nowadays.

I say that play was an institution of chivalry. It has been wrecked
along with other privileges of men of birth. When Seingalt engaged a
man for six-and-thirty hours without leaving the table, do you
think he showed no courage?

How have we had the best blood and the brightest eyes too, of Europe
throbbing round the table, as I and my uncle have held the cards and the
bank against some terrible player, who was matching some thousands out
of his millions against our all, which was there on the baize! When
we engaged that daring Alexis Kossloffsky, and won seven thousand
louis on a single coup, had we lost we should have been beggars the
next day; when _he_ lost, he was only a village and a few hundred
serfs in pawn the worse.

When at Toeplitz the Duke of Courland brought fourteen lacqueys, each with
four bags of florins, and challenged our bank to play against the sealed
bags, what did we ask? 'Sir,' said we, 'we have but eighty thousand
florins in bank, or two hundred thousand at three months.

If your highness's bags do not contain more than eighty thousand we will
meet you.' And we did; and after eleven hours' play, in which our bank
was at one time reduced to two hundred and three ducats, we won
seventeen thousand florins of him.

Is _this_ not something like boldness? Does this profession not require
skill, and perseverance, and bravery? Four crowned heads looked on
at the game, and an imperial princess, when I turned up the ace
of hearts and made Paroli, burst into tears.

No man on the European Continent held a higher position than Redmond
Barry then; and when the Duke of Courland lost he was pleased to
say that we had won nobly.

And so we had, and spent nobly what we won."

This is very grand, and is put as an eloquent man would put it who
really wished to defend gambling.

The rascal, of course, comes to a miserable end, but the tone of
the narrative is continued throughout.

He is brought to live at last with his old mother in the Fleet
prison, on a wretched annuity of fifty pounds per annum, which she has
saved out of the general wreck, and there he dies of delirium
tremens.

For an assumed tone of continued irony, maintained through the long memoir
of a life, never becoming tedious, never unnatural, astounding us
rather by its naturalness, I know nothing equal to _Barry Lyndon_.

As one reads, one sometimes is struck by a conviction that this or the
other writer has thoroughly liked the work on which he is engaged.

There is a gusto about his passages, a liveliness in the language, a spring
in the motion of the words, an eagerness of description, a lilt,
if I may so call it, in the progress of the narrative, which makes
the reader feel that the author has himself greatly enjoyed what
he has written.

He has evidently gone on with his work without any sense of weariness,
or doubt; and the words have come readily to him. So it has been
with _Barry Lyndon_.

"My mind was filled full with those blackguards," Thackeray once
said to a friend.

It is easy enough to see that it was so.

In the passage which I have above quoted, his mind was running over
with the idea that a rascal might be so far gone in rascality as
to be in love with his own trade.

This was the last of Thackeray's long stories in _Fraser_.

I have given by no means a complete catalogue of his contributions to
the magazine, but I have perhaps mentioned those which are best
known.

There were many short pieces which have now been collected in his
works, such as _Little Travels and Roadside Sketches_, and the _Carmen
Lilliense_, in which the poet is supposed to be detained at Lille
by want of money.

There are others which I think are not to be found in the collected
works, such as a _Box of Novels by Titmarsh_, and _Titmarsh in the
Picture Galleries_.

After the name of Titmarsh had been once assumed it was generally
used in the papers which he sent to _Fraser_.

Thackeray's connection with _Punch_ began in 1843, and, as far as
I can learn, _Miss Tickletoby's Lectures on English History_ was
his first contribution.

They, however, have not been found worthy of a place in the collected
edition.

His short pieces during a long period of his life were so numerous
that to have brought them all together would have weighted his
more important works with too great an amount of extraneous matter.

The same lady, Miss Tickletoby, gave a series of lectures. There was _The
History of the next French Revolution_, and _The Wanderings of our Fat
Contributor_,--the first of which is, and the latter is not,
perpetuated in his works.

Our old friend Jeames Yellowplush, or De la Pluche,--for we cannot
for a moment doubt that he is the same Jeames,--is very prolific,
and as excellent in his orthography, his sense, and satire, as ever.

These papers began with _The Lucky Speculator_. He lives in The Albany;
he hires a brougham; and is devoted to Miss Emily Flimsey, the
daughter of Sir George, who had been his master,--to the great
injury of poor Maryanne, the fellow-servant who had loved him in
his kitchen days.

Then there follows that wonderful ballad, _Jeames of Backley Square_.

Upon this he writes an angry letter to _Punch_, dated from his
chambers in The Albany; "Has a reglar suscriber to your amusing
paper, I beg leaf to state that I should never have done so had I
supposed that it was your 'abbit to igspose the mistaries of privit
life, and to hinger the delligit feelings of umble individyouls
like myself."

He writes in his own defence, both as to Maryanne and to the
share-dealing by which he had made his fortune; and he ends with
declaring his right to the position which he holds.

"You are corrict in stating that I am of hancient Normin fam'ly.

This is more than Peal can say, to whomb I applied for a barnetcy;
but the primmier being of low igstraction, natrally stikles for his
horder."

And the letter is signed "Fitzjames De la Pluche."

Then follows his diary, beginning with a description of the way in
which he rushed into _Punch's_ office, declaring his misfortunes,
when losses had come upon him.

"I wish to be paid for my contribewtions to your paper.
Suckmstances is altered with me." Whereupon he gets a cheque upon Messrs.
Pump and Aldgate, and has himself carried away to new speculations.

He leaves his diary behind him, and _Punch_ surreptitiously publishes
it.

There is much in the diary which comes from Thackeray's very heart.

Who does not remember his indignation against Lord Bareacres? "I
gave the old humbug a few shares out of my own pocket.

'There, old Pride,' says I, 'I like to see you down on your knees to a
footman. There, old Pomposity!

Take fifty pounds. I like to see you come cringing and begging for
it!'

Whenever I see him in a very public place, I take my change for my
money.

I digg him in the ribbs, or clap his padded old shoulders. I call him
'Bareacres, my old brick,' and I see him wince. It does my 'art
good." It does Thackeray's heart good to pour himself out in indignation
against some imaginary Bareacres.

He blows off his steam with such an eagerness that he forgets for
a time, or nearly forgets, his cacography.

Then there are "Jeames on Time Bargings," "Jeames on the Gauge Question,"
"Mr. Jeames again." Of all our author's heroes Jeames is perhaps the
most amusing. There is not much in that joke of bad spelling, and we
should have been inclined to say beforehand, that Mrs.

Malaprop had done it so well and so sufficiently, that no repetition
of it would be received with great favour.

Like other dishes, it depends upon the cooking.

Jeames, with his "suckmstances," high or low, will be immortal.

There were _The Travels in London_, a long series of them; and then
_Punch's Prize Novelists_, in which Thackeray imitates the language
and plots of Bulwer, Disraeli, Charles Lever, G.

P. R. James, Mrs. Gore, and Cooper, the American. They are all excellent;
perhaps Codlingsby is the best.

Mendoza, when he is fighting with the bargeman, or drinking with
Codlingsby, or receiving Louis Philippe in his rooms, seems to have
come direct from the pen of our Premier.

Phil Fogerty's jump, and the younger and the elder horsemen, as they
come riding into the story, one in his armour and the other with
his feathers, have the very savour and tone of Lever and James; but
then the savour and the tone are not so piquant.

I know nothing in the way of imitation to equal Codlingsby, if it be not
The Tale of Drury Lane, by W. S. in the _Rejected Addresses_, of which
it is said that Walter Scott declared that he must have written
it himself.

The scene between Dr.

Franklin, Louis XVI., Marie Antoinette, and Tatua, the chief of the
Nose-rings, as told in _The Stars and Stripes_, is perfect in its
way, but it fails as being a caricature of Cooper.

The caricaturist has been carried away beyond and above his model,
by his own sense of fun.

Of the ballads which appeared in _Punch_ I will speak elsewhere, as
I must give a separate short chapter to our author's power of
versification; but I must say a word of _The Snob Papers_, which were
at the time the most popular and the best known of all Thackeray's
contributions to _Punch_.

I think that perhaps they were more charming, more piquant, more
apparently true, when they came out one after another in the
periodical, than they are now as collected together.

I think that one at a time would be better than many.

And I think that the first half in the long list of snobs would have
been more manifestly snobs to us than they are now with the second
half of the list appended. In fact, there are too many of them, till
the reader is driven to tell himself that the meaning of it all is
that Adam's family is from first to last a family of snobs. "First," says
Thackeray, in preface, "the world was made; then, as a matter of course,
snobs; they existed for years and years, and were no more known
than America.

But presently,--ingens patebat tellus,--the people became darkly aware
that there was such a race. Not above five-and-twenty years since,
a name, an expressive monosyllable, arose to designate that case. That
name has spread over England like railroads subsequently; snobs
are known and recognised throughout an empire on which I am given to
understand the sun never sets. _Punch_ appears at the right season to
chronicle their history; and the individual comes forth to write that
history in _Punch_.

"I have,--and for this gift I congratulate myself with a deep and abiding
thankfulness,--an eye for a snob.
enquired the Scarecrow.

"Of course; how else could I see it? And we know the thing is true,
because since the time of that interview there is no piglet to be found
anywhere."

[Illustration: EUREKA IN COURT.]

"I suppose, if the cat had been gone, instead of the piglet, your mind's
eye would see the piglet eating the cat," suggested the Scarecrow.

"Very likely," acknowledged the Woggle-Bug. "And now, Fellow Citizens
and Creatures of the Jury, I assert that so awful a crime deserves
death, and in the case of the ferocious criminal before you--who is now
washing her face--the death penalty should be inflicted nine times."

There was great applause when the speaker sat down. Then the Princess
spoke in a stern voice:

"Prisoner, what have you to say for yourself? Are you guilty, or not
guilty?"

"Why, that's for you to find out," replied Eureka. "If you can prove I'm
guilty, I'll be willing to die nine times, but a mind's eye is no proof,
because the Woggle-Bug has no mind to see with."

"Never mind, dear," said Dorothy.

Then the Tin Woodman arose and said:

"Respected Jury and dearly beloved Ozma, I pray you not to judge this
feline prisoner unfeelingly. I do not think the innocent kitten can be
guilty, and surely it is unkind to accuse a luncheon of being a murder.
Eureka is the sweet pet of a lovely little girl whom we all admire, and
gentleness and innocence are her chief virtues. Look at the kitten's
intelligent eyes;" (here Eureka closed her eyes sleepily) "gaze at her
smiling countenance!" (here Eureka snarled and showed her teeth) "mark
the tender pose of her soft, padded little hands!" (Here Eureka bared
her sharp claws and scratched at the bars of the cage.) "Would such a
gentle animal be guilty of eating a fellow creature? No; a thousand
times, no!"

"Oh, cut it short," said Eureka; "you've talked long enough."

"I'm trying to defend you," remonstrated the Tin Woodman.

"Then say something sensible," retorted the kitten. "Tell them it would
be foolish for me to eat the piglet, because I had sense enough to know
it would raise a row if I did. But don't try to make out I'm too
innocent to eat a fat piglet if I could do it and not be found out. I
imagine it would taste mighty good."

"Perhaps it would, to those who eat," remarked the Tin Woodman. "I
myself, not being built to eat, have no personal experience in such
matters. But I remember that our great poet once said:

    "'To eat is sweet
    When hunger's seat
    Demands a treat
    Of savory meat.'

"Take this into consideration, friends of the Jury, and you will readily
decide that the kitten is wrongfully accused and should be set at
liberty."

When the Tin Woodman sat down no one applauded him, for his arguments
had not been very convincing and few believed that he had proved
Eureka's innocence. As for the Jury, the members whispered to each other
for a few minutes and then they appointed the Hungry Tiger their
spokesman. The huge beast slowly arose and said:

"Kittens have no consciences, so they eat whatever pleases them. The
jury believes the white kitten known as Eureka is guilty of having eaten
the piglet owned by Princess Ozma, and recommends that she be put to
death in punishment of the crime."

The judgment of the jury was received with great applause, although
Dorothy was sobbing miserably at the fate of her pet. The Princess was
just about to order Eureka's head chopped off with the Tin Woodman's axe
when that brilliant personage once more arose and addressed her.

"Your Highness," said he, "see how easy it is for a jury to be mistaken.
The kitten could not have eaten your piglet--for here it is!"

He took off his funnel hat and from beneath it produced a tiny white
piglet, which he held aloft that all might see it clearly.

Ozma was delighted and exclaimed, eagerly:

"Give me my pet, Nick Chopper!"

And all the people cheered and clapped their hands, rejoicing that the
prisoner had escaped death and been proved to be innocent.

As the Princess held the white piglet in her arms and stroked its soft
hair she said: "Let Eureka out of the cage, for she is no longer a
prisoner, but our good friend. Where did you find my missing pet, Nick
Chopper?"

"In a room of the palace," he answered.

"Justice," remarked the Scarecrow, with a sigh, "is a dangerous thing to
meddle with. If you hadn't happened to find the piglet, Eureka would
surely have been executed."

"But justice prevailed at the last," said Ozma, "for here is my pet, and
Eureka is once more free."

"I refuse to be free," cried the kitten, in a sharp voice, "unless the
Wizard can do his trick with eight piglets. If he can produce but seven,
then this it not the piglet that was lost, but another one."

"Hush, Eureka!" warned the Wizard.

"Don't be foolish," advised the Tin Woodman, "or you may be sorry for
it."

"The piglet that belonged to the Princess wore an emerald collar," said
Eureka, loudly enough for all to hear.

"So it did!" exclaimed Ozma. "This cannot be the one the Wizard gave
me."

"Of course not; he had nine of them, altogether," declared Eureka; "and
I must say it was very stingy of him not to let me eat just a few. But
now that this foolish trial is ended, I will tell you what really became
of your pet piglet."

At this everyone in the Throne Room suddenly became quiet, and the
kitten continued, in a calm, mocking tone of voice:

"I will confess that I intended to eat the little pig for my breakfast;
so I crept into the room where it was kept while the Princess was
dressing and hid myself under a chair. When Ozma went away she closed
the door and left her pet on the table. At once I jumped up and told the
piglet not to make a fuss, for he would be inside of me in half a
second; but no one can teach one of these creatures to be reasonable.
Instead of keeping still, so I could eat him comfortably, he trembled so
with fear that he fell off the table into a big vase that was standing
on the floor. The vase had a very small neck, and spread out at the top
like a bowl. At first the piglet stuck in the neck of the vase and I
thought I should get him, after all, but he wriggled himself through and
fell down into the deep bottom part--and I suppose he's there yet."

All were astonished at this confession, and Ozma at once sent an officer
to her room to fetch the vase. When he returned the Princess looked down
the narrow neck of the big ornament and discovered her lost piglet, just
as Eureka had said she would.

There was no way to get the creature out without breaking the vase, so
the Tin Woodman smashed it with his axe and set the little prisoner
free.

Then the crowd cheered lustily and Dorothy hugged the kitten in her arms
and told her how delighted she was to know that she was innocent.

"But why didn't you tell us at first?" she asked.

"It would have spoiled the fun," replied the kitten, yawning.

Ozma gave the Wizard back the piglet he had so kindly allowed Nick
Chopper to substitute for the lost one, and then she carried her own
into the apartments of the palace where she lived. And now, the trial
being over, the good citizens of the Emerald City scattered to their
homes, well content with the day's amusement.


CHAPTER 20.

ZEB RETURNS TO THE RANCH


Eureka was much surprised to find herself in disgrace; but she was, in
spite of the fact that she had not eaten the piglet. For the folks of Oz
knew the kitten had tried to commit the crime, and that only an accident
had prevented her from doing so; therefore even the Hungry Tiger
preferred not to associate with her. Eureka was forbidden to wander
around the palace and was made to stay in confinement in Dorothy's room;
so she began to beg her mistress to send her to some other place where
she could enjoy herself better.

Dorothy was herself anxious to get home, so she promised Eureka they
would not stay in the Land of Oz much longer.

The next evening after the trial the little girl begged Ozma to allow
her to look in the enchanted picture, and the Princess readily
consented. She took the child to her room and said: "Make your wish,
dear, and the picture will show the scene you desire to behold."

Then Dorothy found, with the aid of the enchanted picture, that Uncle
Henry had returned to the farm in Kansas, and she also saw that both he
and Aunt Em were dressed in mourning, because they thought their little
niece had been killed by the earthquake.

"Really," said the girl, anxiously, "I must get back as soon as poss'ble
to my own folks."

Zeb also wanted to see his home, and although he did not find anyone
mourning for him, the sight of Hugson's Ranch in the picture made him
long to get back there.

"This is a fine country, and I like all the people that live in it," he
told Dorothy. "But the fact is, Jim and I don't seem to fit into a
fairyland, and the old horse has been begging me to go home again ever
since he lost the race. So, if you can find a way to fix it, we'll be
much obliged to you."

"Ozma can do it, easily," replied Dorothy. "Tomorrow morning I'll go to
Kansas and you can go to Californy."

[Illustration: "I'M MUCH OBLIGED FOR ALL YOUR KINDNESS."]

That last evening was so delightful that the boy will never forget it as
long as he lives. They were all together (except Eureka) in the
pretty rooms of the Princess, and the Wizard did some new tricks, and
the Scarecrow told stories, and the Tin Woodman sang a love song in a
sonorous, metallic voice, and everybody laughed and had a good time.
Then Dorothy wound up Tik-tok and he danced a jig to amuse the company,
after which the Yellow Hen related some of her adventures with the Nome
King in the Land of Ev.

The Princess served delicious refreshments to those who were in the
habit of eating, and when Dorothy's bed time arrived the company
separated after exchanging many friendly sentiments.

Next morning they all assembled for the final parting, and many of the
officials and courtiers came to look upon the impressive ceremonies.

Dorothy held Eureka in her arms and bade her friends a fond good-bye.

"You must come again, some time," said the little Wizard; and she
promised she would if she found it possible to do so.

"But Uncle Henry and Aunt Em need me to help them," she added, "so I
can't ever be very long away from the farm in Kansas."

Ozma wore the Magic Belt; and, when she had kissed Dorothy farewell and
had made her wish, the little girl and her kitten disappeared in a
twinkling.

The government's to determination we to enter the EU has shaped.
most aspects of scheduled for May 2004.

Improving Poland's export competitiveness and the internal budget deficit
are top new legislation; in June 2003,, 77% of the voters approved
membership, now to political uncertainty, the zloty has depreciated
in relation euro priorities.

Due its feel economic policy and and the currencies of the other
euro-zone aspirants have been appreciatin

g
Good-bye, everybody!"

He gave a start and rubbed his eyes. Jim was trotting along the
well-known road, shaking his ears and whisking his tail with a contented
motion. C. BANCROFT DAVIS should not be dismissed from his present office
of Assistant Secretary of State.

FROM SARATOGA.

The news of Mr. GREELEY'S capture has affected the Commodore to
such an extent as to stretch him on a bed of sickness."Why, in the world, Uncle," answered Zeb, with a laugh.

The End

[Illustration]