Produced by Barbara Tozier, Graeme Mackreth and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


ANIMAL GHOSTS

OR,

ANIMAL HAUNTINGS AND THE HEREAFTER

BY ELLIOTT O'DONNELL

AUTHOR OF

"THE SORCERY CLUB," "WERWOLVES," "BYWAYS OF GHOSTLAND," "SCOTTISH
GHOSTS," "HAUNTED HOUSES OF LONDON," "HAUNTED HOUSES OF ENGLAND AND
WALES," "DREAMS AND THEIR MEANINGS," "FOR SATAN'S SAKE," "THE UNKNOWN
DEPTHS," "DINEVAH THE BEAUTIFUL," "JENNIE BARLOWE," "GHOSTLY PHENOMENA,"
"MRS. E.M. WARD'S REMINISCENCES," ETC. ETC.

LONDON

WILLIAM RIDER & SON, LTD.
CATHEDRAL HOUSE, PATERNOSTER ROW, E.C.
1913

_First Published November, 1913._


PREFACE

If human beings, with all their vices, have a future life, assuredly
animals, who in character so often equal, nay, excel human beings, have
a future life also.

Those who in the Scriptures find a key to all things, can find nothing
in them to confute this argument. There is no saying of Christ that
justifies one in supposing that man is the only being, whose existence
extends beyond the grave.

Granted, however, merely for the sake of argument, that we have some
ground for the denial of a future existence for animals, consider the
injustice such a denial would involve. Take, for example, the case of
the horse. Harming no one, and without thought of reward, it toils for
man all its life, and when too old to work it is put to death without
even the compensation of a well-earned rest. But if compensation be
God's law,--as I, for one, believe it to be--and also the _raison
d'être_ of a hereafter, then surely the Creator, whose chief claim to
our respect and veneration lies in the fact that He is just and
merciful, will take good care that the horse--the gentle, patient,
never-complaining horse--is well compensated--compensated in a golden
hereafter.

Consider again, the case of another of our four-footed friends--the dog;
the faithful, affectionate, obedient and forgiving dog, the dog who is
so often called upon to stand all sorts of rough treatment, and is shot
or poisoned, if, provoked beyond endurance, he at last rounds on his
persecutors, and bites. And the cat--the timid, peaceful cat who is
mauled, and all but pulled in two by cruel children, and beaten to a
jelly when in sheer agony and fright it scratches. Reflect again, on the
cow and the sheep, fed only to supply our wants; shouted at and kicked,
if, when nearly scared out of their senses, they wander off the track;
and pole-axed, or done to death in some equally atrocious manner when
the sickening demand for flesh food is at its height.

And yet, you say, these innocent, unoffending--and, I say,
martyred--animals are to have no future, no compensation. Monstrous!
Absurd! It is an effrontery to common sense, philosophy--anything,
everything. It is a damned lie, damned bigotry, damned nonsense. The
whole animal world will live again; and it will be man--spoilt,
presumptuous, degenerate man--who will not participate in another life,
unless he very much improves.

Think well over this,--you who preach the gospel of man's
pre-eminence;--you who prate of God and know nothing whatsoever about
Him! The horse, dog, cat,--even the wild animals, whose vices,
perchance, pale beside your own, may go to Heaven before you. The
Supreme Architect is neither a Nero, nor a Stuart, nor a clown. He will
recompense all who deserve recompense, be they great or small--biped or
quadruped.

It is to testify to a future existence for animals and to create a wider
interest in it that I have undertaken to compile this book; and my
object, I think, can best be achieved in my own way, the way of the
investigator of haunted places. The mere fact that there are
manifestations of "dead" people (pardon the paradox) proves some kind of
life after death for human beings; and happily the same proof is
available with regard a future life for animals; indeed there are as
many animal phantasms as human--perhaps more; hence, if the human being
lives again, so do his dumb friends.

Be comforted then, you who love your pets, and have been kind to them.
You will see them all again, on the soft undying pasture lands of your
Elysium and theirs.

Be warned, you--you who have despised animals, and have been cruel to
them. Who knows but that, in your future life, you may be as they are
now--in subjection?

       *       *       *       *       *

My task in writing this book has been considerably lightened by the
extreme courtesy and kindness of Mr. Shirley, Mr. Eveleigh Nash, and the
Proprietors of the _Review of Reviews_, in allowing me to make use of
extracts and quotations from their most valuable works.

ELLIOTT O'DONNELL.


CONTENTS


PART I


CHAPTER I

CATS

PAGE

The Black Cat of the Old Manor House, Oxenby--Correspondence _re_ Cat
Phantasms--The Headless Cat of No. ----, Lower Seedley Road, Seedley,
Manchester--The Cat on the Post--Mystic Properties of Cats      3


CHAPTER II

DOGS

The Case of James Durham--The Grey Dog of ---- House, Birmingham--The
Dog in the Cupboard--How the Ghost of a Dog saved Life--A Precentor's
Adventure--Phantom Dog seen on Souter Fell--The Jumping Ghost--Dogs seen
before a Death--A Dog scared by a Canine Ghost--The Phantom Dachshund of
W---- Street, London, W.--An ALL Hallow Eve Ghost--The Strange
Disappearance of Mr. Jeremiah Dance--Phantasms of Living Dogs--The
Yellow Dog of K---- University--National Ghosts in the form of Dogs--The
Mauthe Doog--Spectral Hounds      57


CHAPTER III

HORSES AND THE UNKNOWN

A Phantom Cavalcade--The Miller on the Grey Horse--A Phantom Horse
and Rider--The White Horse of Eastover--The Afrikander's Story--Heralds
of Death--Phantom Coach in U.S.A.--A Story from Marseilles--Summary of
Horses--Phantasms of Living Horses--Horses and the Psychic Faculty of
Scent--Phantom Policeman and Horse--Phantom Huntsmen and Horses      139


CHAPTER IV

BULLS, COWS, PIGS, ETC.

The Kirk-grim--Phantasm of a Goat--Phantom Hogs of the Moat
Grange--Sheep--Spectre Flock of Sheep in Germany      212


PART II


CHAPTER V

WILD ANIMALS AND THE UNKNOWN

Animal Phantasms and the Moon--The Case of Martin Tristram--Phantasms of
Cat and Ape--Hauntings by a White Rabbit--John Wesley's Ghost--Psychic
Faculty in Hares and Rabbits      223


CHAPTER VI

INHABITANTS OF THE JUNGLE

Elephants, Lions, Tigers, etc.--The White Tiger--Jungle Animals and
Psychic Faculties      254


PART III


CHAPTER VII

BIRDS AND THE UNKNOWN


Case from _Occult Review_--Bird Hauntings in Russia--Hauntings in
the Country Church--Capt. Morgan's Experiences--Addenda--Old Authorities
on Bird Omens      273


CHAPTER VIII

A BRIEF RETROSPECT      300


PART I

DOMESTIC ANIMALS AND THEIR ASSOCIATIONS WITH THE UNKNOWN


ANIMAL GHOSTS


CHAPTER I

CATS


In opening this volume on Animals and their associations with the
unknown, I will commence with a case of hauntings in the Old Manor
House, at Oxenby.

My informant was a Mrs. Hartnoll, whom I can see in my mind's eye, as
distinctly as if I were looking at her now. Hers was a personality that
no lapse of time, nothing could efface; a personality that made itself
felt on boys of all temperaments, most of all, of course, on those
who--like myself--were highly strung and sensitive.

She was classical mistress at L.'s, the then well-known dame school in
Clifton, where for three years--prior to migrating to a Public School--I
was well grounded in all the mysticisms of Kennedy's Latin Primer and
Smith's First Greek Principia.

I doubt if she got anything more than a very small salary--governesses
in those days were shockingly remunerated--and I know,--poor soul, she
had to work monstrously hard. Drumming Latin and Greek into heads as
thick as ours was no easy task.

But there were times, when the excessive tension on the nerves proving
too much, Mrs. Hartnoll stole a little relaxation; when she allowed
herself to chat with us, and even to smile--Heavens! those smiles! And
when--I can feel the tingling of my pulses at the bare mention of
it--she spoke about herself, stated she had once been young--a
declaration so astounding, so utterly beyond our comprehension, that we
were rendered quite speechless--and told us anecdotes.

Of many of her narratives I have no recollection, but one or two, which
interested me more than the rest, are almost as fresh in my mind as when
recounted. The one that appealed to me most, and which I have every
reason to believe is absolutely true,[1] is as follows:--I give it as
nearly as I can in her own somewhat stilted style:--

"Up to the age of nineteen, I resided with my parents in the Manor
House, Oxenby. [FN#239] Easy enough for an Englishman to avoid saying
"by God," but this common incident in Moslem folk-lore appeals to the
peoples who are constantly using the word Allah Wallah, Billah, etc.
The Koran expressly says, "Make not Allah the scope (object, lit.
arrow-butt) of your oaths" (chaps. ii. 224), yet the command is broken
every minute.

[FN#240] This must be the ubiquitous Khizr, the Green Prophet; when
Ali appears, as a rule he is on horseback.

[FN#241] The name is apparently imaginary; and a little below we find
that it was close to Jinn land.

China was very convenient for this purpose: the medieval-Moslems, who
settled in considerable numbers at Canton and elsewhere, knew just
enough of it to know their own ignorance of the vast empire.

Hence the Druzes of the Libanus still hold that part of their
nation is in the depths of the Celestial-Empire.

[FN#242] I am unwilling to alter the old title to "City of Copper" as
it should be; the pure metal having been technologically used long
before the alloy of copper and zinc. But the Maroccan City (Night dlxvi.
et seq.) was of brass (not copper). The Hindus of Upper India have
an Iram which they call Hari Chand's city (Colonel Tod); and
I need hardly mention the Fata Morgana, Island of Saint Borondon;
Cape Fly-away; the Flying Dutchman, etc. etc., all the effect of
"looming."

[FN#243] This sword which makes men invisible and which takes place
of Siegfried's Tarnkappe (invisible cloak) and of "Fortunatus' cap"
is common in Moslem folk-lore. The idea probably arose from the venerable
practice of inscribing the blades with sentences, verses and magic
figures.

[FN#244] Arab. "'Ukáb," in books an eagle (especially black) and P.
N. of constellation but in Pop. usage= a vulture. In Egypt it is the
Neophron Percnopterus (Jerdon) or N. Gingianus (Latham), the Dijájat
Far'aun or Pharaoh's hen.

This bird has been known to kill the Báshah sparrow-hawk (Jerdon i. 60);
yet, curious to say, the reviewers of my "Falconry in the Valley
of the Indus" questioned the fact, known to so many travellers, that the
falcon is also killed by this "tiger of the air," despite the latter's
feeble bill (pp. 35-38). I was faring badly at their hands when the
late Mr.
Burckhardt Barker came to the rescue. Falconicide is popularly attributed,
not only to the vulture, but also to the crestless hawk-eagle (Nisætus
Bonelli) which the Hindus call Morángá=peacock slayer.

[FN#245] Here I translate "Nahás"=brass, as the "kumkum"
(cucurbite) is made of mixed metal, not of copper.

[FN#246] Mansur al-Nimrí, a poet of the time and a protégé of Yahya's
son, Al-Fazl.

[FN#247] This was at least four times Mansur's debt.

[FN#248] Intendant of the Palace to Harun al-Rashid. The Bres.
Edit. (vii. 254) begins They tell that there arose full enmity between
Ja'afar Barmecide and a Sahib of Misr" (Wazir or Governor of Egypt).

Lane (ii. 429) quotes to this purpose amongst Arab; historians Fakhr al-Din.
(De Sacy's Chrestomathie Arabe i., p. 26, edit. ii.)
[FN#249] Arab. "Armaníyah" which Egyptians call after their mincing fashion
"Irminiyeh" hence "Ermine" (Mus Ponticus).
Armaniyah was much more extensive than our Armenia, now
degraded to a mere province of Turkey, and the term is understood
to include the whole of the old Parthian Empire.

[FN#250] Even now each Pasha-governor must keep a "Wakíl" in Constantinople
to intrigue and bribe for him at head-quarters.

[FN#251] The symbol of generosity, of unasked liberality, the
"black hand" being that of niggardness.

[FN#252] Arab. Ráh =pure (and old) wine. Arabs, like our classics,
usually drank their wine tempered. So Imr al-Keys in his Mu'allakah says,
"Bring the well tempered wine that seems to be saffron-tinctured;
and, when water-mixed, o'erbrims the cup." (v.
2.)
[FN#253] There is nothing that Orientals relish more than these "goody-goody"
preachments; but they read and forget them as readily as
Westerns.

[FN#254] Lane (ii. 435) ill-advisedly writes "Sher," as "the word
is evidently Persian signifying a Lion." But this is only in the debased
Indian dialect, a Persian, especially a Shirazi, pronounces "Shír." And
this is how it is written in the Bresl. Edit., vii.
262. "Shár" is evidently a fancy name, possibly suggested by the
dynastic name of the Ghurjistan or Georgian Princes.

[FN#255] Again old experience, which has learned at a heavy cost how
many a goodly apple is rotten at the core.

[FN#256] This couplet has occurred in Night xxi. I give Torrens (p.
206) by way of specimen.

[FN#257] Arab. "Záka" = merely tasting a thing which may be sweet with
a bitter after-flavour
[FN#258] This tetraseich was in Night xxx. with a difference.

[FN#259] The lines have occurred in Night xxx. I quote Torrens, p.
311.

[FN#260] This tetrastich is in Night clxix. I borrow from Lane (ii.
62).

[FN#261] The rude but effective refrigerator of the desert Arab who hangs
his water-skin to the branch of a tree and allows it to swing in the
wind.

[FN#262] Arab "Khumásiyah" which Lane (ii. 438) renders "of quinary
stature." Usually it means five spans, but here five feet, showing that
the girl was young and still growing. The invoice with a slave always
notes her height in spans measured from ankle-bone to ear and above seven
she loses value as being full grown. Hence Sudási (fem. Sudásiyah)
is a slave six spans high, the Shibr or full span (9 inches) not the
Fitr or short span from thumb to index. Faut is the interval-between
every finger, Ratab between index and medius, and Atab between medius and
annularis.

[FN#263] "Moon faced" now sounds sufficiently absurd to us, but it was
not always so. Solomon (Cant. vi. 10) does not disdain the image "fair
as the moon, clear as the sun," and those who have seen a moon in the
sky of Arabia will thoroughly appreciate it.

We find it amongst the Hindus, the Persians, the Afghans, the Turks
and all the nations of Europe. We have, finally, the grand example of
Spenser,

"Her spacious forehead, like the clearest moon, etc."
[FN#264] Blue eyes have a bad name in Arabia as in India: the witch
Zarká of Al-Yamamah was noted for them; and "blue eyed" often means
"fierce-eyed," alluding to the Greeks and Daylamites, mortal-enemies to
Ishmael. The Arabs say "ruddy of mustachio, blue of eye and black of
heart."
[FN#265] Before explained as used with camphor to fill the dead man's
mouth.

[FN#266] As has been seen, slapping on the neck is equivalent to our "boxing
ears," but much less barbarous and likely to injure the child. The
most insulting blow is that with shoe sandal-or slipper because it brings
foot in contact with head. Of this I have spoken before.

[FN#267] Arab. "Hibál" (= ropes) alluding to the A'akál-fillet which
binds the Kúfiyah-kerchief on the Badawi's head. (Pilgrimage, i. 346.)

[FN#268] Arab. "Khiyál"; afterwards called Kara Gyuz (= "black eyes,"
from the celebrated Turkish Wazir). The mise-en-scène was like that of
Punch, but of transparent cloth, lamp lit inside and showing silhouettes
worked by hand. Nothing could be more Fescenntne than Kara Gyuz, who
appeared with a phallus longer than himself and made all the
Consuls-General-periodically complain of its abuse, while the
dialogue, mostly in Turkish, as even more obscene.

Most ingenious were Kara Gyuz's little ways of driving on an Obstinate
donkey and of tackling a huge Anatolian pilgrim. He mounted the Neddy's
back face to tail, and inserting his left thumb like a clyster, hammered
it with his right when the donkey started at speed. For the huge pilgrim
he used a ladder.

These shows now obsolete, used to enliven the Ezbekiyah Gardens every
evening and explain Ovid's Words, "Delicias videam, Nile jocose, tuas!"

[FN#269] Mohammed (Mishkát al-Masábih ii. 360-62) says, "Change the
whiteness of your hair but not with anything black." Abu Bakr, who was
two years and some months older than the Prophet, used tincture of Henna
and Katam. Old Turkish officers justify black dyes because these make
them look younger and fiercer. Henna stains white hair orange red; and
the Persians apply after it a paste of indigo leaves, the result is
successively leek-green, emerald-green, bottle-green and lastly lamp-black.
There is a stage in life (the youth of old age) when man uses dyes:
presently he finds that the whole face wants dye; that the contrast
between juvenile coloured hair and ancient skin is ridiculous and that
it is time to wear white.

[FN#270] This prejudice extends all over the East: the Sanskrit saying
is "Kvachit káná bhaveta sádhus" now and then a monocular is honest.
The left eye is the worst and the popular idea is, I have said, that
the damage will come by the injured member
[FN#271] The Arabs say like us, "Short and thick is never quick"
and "Long and thin has little in."
[FN#272] Arab.

"Ba'azu layáli," some night when his mistress failed him.

[FN#273] The fountain in Paradise before noticed.

       [FN#274] Before noticed as the Moslem St.

Peter (as far as the keys go).

[FN#275] Arab. "Munkasir" = broken, frail, languishing the only form of
the maladive allowed. Here again we have masculine for feminine: the
eyelids show love-desire, but, etc.

[FN#276] The river of Paradise.

[FN#277] See Night xii. "The Second Kalandar's Tale " vol. i.
113.

[FN#278] Lane (ii. 472) refers for specimens of calligraphy to Herbin's
"Développements, etc."

There are many more than seven styles of writing as I have shown in
Night xiii.; vol. i. 129.

[FN#279] Amongst good Moslems this would be a claim upon a man.

[FN#280] These lines have occurred twice already: and first appear
in Night xxii.

I have borrowed from Mr. Payne (iv. 46).

[FN#281] Arab. "Ya Nasráni", the address is not intrinsically slighting
but it may easily be made so. I have elsewhere noted that when Julian (is
said to have) exclaimed "Vicisti Nazarene!" he was probably thinking in
Eastern phrase "Nasarta, yá Nasráni!"
[FN#282] Thirst is the strongest of all pleas to an Eastern, especially
to a Persian who never forgets the sufferings of his Imam, Husayn,
at Kerbela: he would hardly withhold it from the murderer of his father.
There is also a Hadis, "Thou shalt not refuse water to him who
thirsteth in the desert."

[FN#283] Arab. "Zimmi" which Lane (ii. 474) aptly translates a "tributary."
The Koran (chaps. ix.) orders Unbelievers to Islamize or to "pay tribute
by right of subjection" (lit. an yadin=out of hand, an expression much
debated). The least tribute is one dinar per annum which goes to the
poor-rate. and for this the Kafir enjoys protection and almost all the
civil rights of Moslems. As it is a question of "loaves and fishes"
there is much to say on the subject; "loaves and fishes" being the main
base and foundation of all religious establishments.

[FN#284] This tetrastich has before occurred, so I quote Lane (ii.
444).

[FN#285] In Night xxxv. the same occurs with a difference.

[FN#286] The old rite, I repeat, has lost amongst all but the noblest
of Arab tribes the whole of its significance; and the traveller must
be careful how he trusts to the phrase "Nahnu málihin" we are
bound together by the salt.

[FN#287] Arab. "Aláma" = Alá-má = upon what ? wherefore ?

[FN#288] Arab. "Mauz"; hence the Linnean name Musa (paradisiaca,
etc.).

The word is explained by Sale (Koran, chaps. xxxvii. 146) as "a small
tree or shrub;" and he would identify it with Jonah's gourd.

[FN#289] Lane (ii. 446) "bald wolf or empowered fate," reading (with
Mac.) Kazá for Kattan (cat).

[FN#290] i.e. "the Orthodox in the Faith." Ráshid is a proper name, witness
that scourge of Syria, Ráshid Pasha. Born in 1830, of the Haji Nazir
Agha family, Darrah-Beys of Macedonian Draina, he was educated in Paris
where he learned the usual-hatred of Europeans: he entered the Egyptian
service in 1851, and, presently exchanging it for the Turkish, became
in due time Wali (Governor-General) of Syria which he plundered
most shamelessly.

Recalled in 1872, he eventually entered the Ministry and on June 15 1876,
he was shot down, with other villains like himself, by gallant
Captain Hasan, the Circassian (Yarham-hu 'lláh !).

[FN#291] Quoted from a piece of verse, of which more presently.

[FN#292] This tetrastich has occurred before (Night cxciii.). I quote Lane
(ii. 449), who quotes Dryden's Spanish Friar,
"There is a pleasure sure in being mad Which none but madmen know."

                    [FN#293] Lane (ii. 449) gives a tradition of the Prophet, "Whoso
is in love, and acteth chastely, and concealeth (his passion) and
dieth, dieth a martyr."

Sakar is No. 5 Hell for Magi Guebres, Parsis, etc., it is used in
the comic Persian curse, "Fi'n-nári wa Sakar al-jadd w'al-pidar"=ln
Hell and Sakar his grandfather and his father.

[FN#294] Arab. "Sifr": I have warned readers that whistling is considered
a kind of devilish speech by the Arabs, especially the Badawin, and that
the traveller must avoid it. It savours of idolatry: in the Koran
we find (chaps. viii. 35), "Their prayer at the House of God
(Ka'abah) is none other than whistling and hand-clapping;" and
tradition says that they whistled through their fingers.

Besides many of the Jinn have only round holes by way of mouths and
their speech is whistling a kind of bird language like sibilant
English.

[FN#295] Arab.

'Kíl wa kál"=lit. "it was said and he said;" a popular phrase for
chit chat, tittle-tattle, prattle and prate, etc.

[FN#296] Arab. "Hadis." comparing it with a tradition of the
Prophet.

[FN#297] Arab.

"Mikashshah," the thick part of a midrib of a palm-frond soaked for some
days in water and beaten out till the fibres separate. It makes an
exceedingly hard, although not a lasting broom.

[FN#298] Persian, "the youth, the brave;" Sansk. Yuván: and Lat.
Juvenis. The Kurd, in tales, is generally a sturdy thief; and in real-life
is little better.

[FN#299] Arab. "Yá Shatir ;" lit. O clever one (in a bad sense).

                    [FN#300] Lane (ii. 453) has it.

"that I may dress thy hair'" etc.

This is Bowdlerising with a witness.

[FN#301] The sign of respect when a personage dismounts.
(Pilgrimage i. 77.)
[FN#302] So the Hindus speak of "the defilement of separation" as if it
were an impurity.

[FN#303] Lane (i. 605) gives a long and instructive note on these public
royal-banquets which were expected from the lieges by Moslem subjects.
The hanging-penalty is, perhaps, a tattle exaggerated; but we find the
same excess in the priestly Gesta Romanorum.

[FN#304] Had he eaten it he would have become her guest. Amongst the
older Badawin it was sufficient to spit upon a man (in entreaty)
to claim his protection: so the horse-thieves when caught were
placed in a hole in the ground covered over with matting to prevent
this happening.

                    Similarly Saladin (Saláh al-Din) the chivalrous would not order a
cup of water for the robber, Reynald de Châtillon, before putting
him to death 
[FN#305] Arab.

"Kishk" properly "Kashk"=wheat-meal-coarsely ground and eaten with
milk or broth.

It is de rigueur with the Egyptian Copts on the "Friday of Sorrow"
(Good Friday): and Lane gives the recipe for making it (M.

E. chaps. xxvi.)
[FN#306] In those days distinctive of Moslems.

[FN#307] The euphemism has before been noticed: the Moslem reader would
not like to pronounce the words "I am a Nazarene."

                    The same formula occurs a little lower down to save the reciter or
reader from saying "Be my wife divorced," etc.

[FN#308] Arab, "Hájj," a favourite Egyptianism.

We are wrong to write Hajji which an Eastern would pronounce Háj-jí.

[FN#309] This is Cairene "chaff."
[FN#310] Whose shell fits very tight.

[FN#311] His hand was like a raven's because he ate with thumb and
two fingers and it came up with the rice about it like a camel's hoof
in dirty ground. This refers to the proverb (Burckhardt, 756), "He
comes down a crow-claw (small) and comes up a camel-hoof (huge and
round)."
[FN#312] Easterns have a superstitious belief in the powers of food: I
knew a learned man who never sat down to eat without a ceremonious salam
to his meat.

[FN#313] Lane (ii. 464), uses the vile Turkish corruption "Rustum,"
which, like its fellow "Rustem," would make a Persian shudder.

[FN#314] Arab. "Darrij" i.e. let them slide (Americanicè).

[FN#315] This tetrastich has occurred before: so I quote Mr. Payne (in
loco).

[FN#316] Shaykh of Al-Butnah and Jábiyah, therefore a Syrian of the
Hauran near Damascus and grandson to Isú (Esau).

                   Arab mystics (unlike the vulgar who see only his patience) recognise
that inflexible integrity which refuses to utter "words of wind"
and which would not, against his conscience, confess to wrong-doing
merely to pacify the Lord who was stronger than himself.

The Classics taught this noble lesson in the case of Prometheus
versus Zeus.

Many articles are called after Job e.g.

Ra'ará' Ayyub or Ghubayrá (inula Arabica and undulata), a creeper
with which he rubbed himself and got well: the Copts do the same
on "Job's Wednesday," i.e. that before Whit Sunday O.S.

Job's father is a nickname of the camel, etc. etc.

[FN#317] Lane (in loco) renders "I am of their number." But "fí
al-siyák" means popularly "(driven) to the point of death."
[FN#318] Lit. = "pathway, road"; hence the bridge well known as "finer
than a hair and sharper than a sword," over which all (except Khadijah
and a chosen few) must pass on the Day of Doom; a Persian apparatus
bodily annexed by Al-Islam.

The old Guebres called it Puli Chinávar or Chinávad and the Jews borrowed
it from them as they did all their fancies of a future life against
which Moses had so gallantly fought. It is said that a bridge over
the grisly "brook Kedron" was called Sirát (the road) and hence the
idea, as that of hell-fire from Ge-Hinnom (Gehenna) where children
were passed through the fire to Moloch. A doubtful Hadis says, "The Prophet
declared Al-Sirát to be the name of a bridge over hell- fire,
dividing Hell from Paradise" (pp. 17, 122, Reynold's trans.
of Al-Siyuti's Traditions, etc.). In Koran i. 5, "Sirat" is simply a
path, from sarata, he swallowed, even as the way devours (makes a
lakam or mouthful of) those who travel it.

                    The word was orig.
written with Sín but changed for easier articulation to Sád, one
of the four Hurúf al-Mutabbakát, "the flattened," formed by the
broadened tongue in contact with the palate.

This Sad also by the figure Ishmám (=conversion) turns slightly to
a Zá, the intermediate between Sin and Sad.

[FN#319] The rule in Turkey where catamites rise to the highest
rank: C'est un homme de bonne famille (said a Turkish officer in
Egypt) il a été acheté.

Hence "Alfi" (one who costs a thousand) is a well-known cognomen. The Pasha
of the Syrian caravan, with which I travelled' had been the slave of a
slave and he was not a solitary instance. (Pilgrimage i. 90.)
[FN#320] The device of the banquet is dainty enough for any old
Italian novella; all that now comes is pure Egyptian polissonnerie
speaking to the gallery and being answered by roars of laughter.

[FN#321] i.e. "art thou ceremonially pure and therefore fit for handling
by a great man like myself?"
[FN#322] In past days before Egypt was "frankified" many overlanders used
to wash away the traces of travel by a Turkish bath which mostly
ended in the appearance of a rump wriggling little lad who offered
to shampoo them. Many accepted his offices without dreaming of his
usual-use or misuse.

[FN#323] Arab. "Imám." This is (to a Moslem) a most offensive comparison
between prayer and car. cop.

[FN#324] Arab. "Fi zaman-hi," alluding to a peculiarity highly prized
by Egyptians; the use of the constrictor vaginæ muscles, the sphincter
for which Abyssinian women are famous. The "Kabbázah" ( = holder),
as she is called, can sit astraddle upon a man and can provoke the
venereal-orgasm, not by wriggling and moving but by tightening and
loosing the male member with the muscles of her privities, milking
it as it were.

Consequently the cassenoisette costs treble the money of other concubines.
(Arranga-Ranga, p.
127.)
[FN#325] The little eunuchs had evidently studied the Harem.

[FN#326] Lane (ii. 494) relates from Al-Makrizi, that when
Khamárawayh, Governor of Egypt (ninth century), suffered from insomnia,
his physician ordered a pool of quicksilver 50 by 50 cubits, to be
laid out in front of his palace, now the Rumaylah square. "At the
corners of the pool were silver pegs, to which were attached by
silver rings strong bands of silk, and a bed of skins, inflated
with air, being thrown upon the pool and secured by the bands
remained in a continual-state of agreeable vacillation."

We are not told that the Prince was thereby salivated like the
late Colonel Sykes when boiling his mercury for thermometric
experiments,
[FN#327] The name seems now unknown. "Al-Khahí'a" is somewhat
stronger than "Wag," meaning at least a "wicked wit." Properly it
is the Span. "perdido," a youth cast off (Khala') by his friends;
though not so strong a term as "Harfúsh"=a blackguard.
[FN#328] Arab. "Farsakh"=parasang.
[FN#329] Arab. "Nahás asfar"=yellow copper, brass as opposed to
Nahás ahmar=copper The reader who cares to study the subject will
find much about it in my "Book of The Sword," chaps. iv.
[FN#330] Lane (ii. 479) translates one stanza of this mukhammas
(pentastich) and speaks of "five more," which would make six.
[FN#331] A servile name. Delicacy, Elegance.
[FN#332] These verses have occurred twice (Night ix. etc.): so I
give Lane's version (ii. 482).
[FN#333] A Badawi tribe to which belonged the generous Ma'an bin
Za'idab, often mentioned The Nights.
[FN#334] Wealthy harems, I have said, are hot-beds of Sapphism and
Tribadism. Every woman past her first youth has a girl whom she
calls her "Myrtle" (in Damascus). At Agbome, capital-of Dahome, I
found that a troop of women was kept for the use of the "Amazons"
(Mission to Gelele, ii. 73). Amongst the wild Arabs, who ignore
Socratic and Sapphic perversions, the lover is always more jealous
of his beloved's girl-friends than of men rivals. In England we
content ourselves with saying that women corrupt women more than
men do. 
[FN#335] The Hebrew Pentateuch; Roll of the Law.
[FN#336] I need hardly notice the brass trays, platters and
table-covers with inscriptions which are familiar to every reader:
those made in the East for foreign markets mostly carry imitation
inscriptions lest infidel eyes fall upon Holy Writ.
[FN#337] These six distichs are in Night xiii. I borrow Torrens (p.
125) to show his peculiar treatment of spinning out 12 lines to
38.
[FN#338] Arab. "Musámirah"=chatting at night. Easterns are inordinately
fond of the practice and the wild Arabs often sit up till dawn,
talking over the affairs of the tribe, indeed a Shaykh is expected
to do so. "Early to bed and early to rise" is a civilised, not a
savage or a barbarous saying. Samír is a companion in night talk;
Rafík of the road; Rahíb in riding horse or camel, Ká'id in sitting,
Sharíb and Rafís at drink, and Nadím at table:
Ahíd is an ally. and Sharík a partner all on the model of "Fa'íl."

[FN#339] In both lover and beloved the excess of love gave them
this clairvoyance.
[FN#340] The prayer will be granted for the excess (not the purity)
of her love.
[FN#341] This wailing over the Past is one of the common-places of
Badawi poetry. The traveller cannot fail, I repeat, to notice the
chronic melancholy of peoples dwelling under the brightest skies.He continued to walk over from Steinbach, where now the
third wife lived in the eating-house, and the ghost of the cat continued
to frighten him by appearing at nightfall as he walked beside the river.

"I can remember hearing his third wife describe his dread of it, and my
mother has told me how both the sister and the second wife used to say
the same thing, though I was too young then for them to tell me about
it. Lautenschlager used also to complain to the country people who came
to dine at his eating-house. He considered himself an ill-used man, and
felt that the supernatural powers were treating him very hardly, and
subjecting him to a real persecution. I have only the conversation of
his wife and the gossip of the village to vouch for his sincerity, and
the genuineness of the apparition is supported only by Lautenschlager's
word, but his evident anger and agitation were accepted as genuine, and
no one dreamed of doubting his word. He was not at all a dreamy or
imaginative man, and did not drink. His passion was merely momentary. He
was not only a draper and caterer but a usurer, and realized something
of a fortune by lending money on good security to peasants and farmers
who, it was said, did not consider how they bound themselves when they
signed the papers he put before them.

"Lautenschlager continued to be haunted by the cat-ghost at irregular
intervals for more than twenty years, and it made a marked change in his
character. He became serious, and during the latter part of his life
would only talk about religion and read sacred literature. He died about
ten years ago."

                    "FELINE."


Letter 7


_A Spectral Fox-terrier_

Two or three years ago I visited a medium (Mrs. Davies of 44 Laburnum
Grove, Portsmouth). I had been seated only a few minutes when a little
pug-dog of hers looked up in the direction of my knees and down towards
my feet, growling and howling in a most strange manner.

"What on earth is he looking at?" I exclaimed.

"Oh," said the medium, "there is a little fox-terrier lying across your
feet; one half of his face is quite dark and the other half white, but
he has such a peculiar black patch over the eye that one would almost
think it was a black bruise." Now, sir, I had such a little dog in
India, but this lady did not know of him, and would never have known had
he not, as I afterwards found, died out there. This is not only a case
of the appearance of an animal after death, but also a case in which it
was seen by another animal, as also by the medium. I am also told that
the pug-dog who had this vision of my dog was once seen to pounce upon
what seemed to the medium to be several cats, near the copper in the
scullery of the same house. The medium asked a neighbour if the previous
occupants had had any cats. "Oh, yes," replied the neighbour, "and badly
the poor things were served, for they were cruelly thrown into the
copper, which was full of boiling water."

                    "SIMLA" (M. Conder).


Letter 8


_Killed by a Street Car, but walks in at the Front Door_

Some five years ago we had a little puppy about six months old. I used
to train him to always go round the back way to come into the house. One
day he got hurt and run over, being instantly killed by a street car. A
day or two after the accident I was going in my front door and I saw the
dog go up the steps in front of me, as plain as I ever saw him in my
life. It seemed he knew that I had taught him he must not go in the
front way, because he would go a few steps and then turn round and look
at me, as though he wanted to see how I was taking it, and I positively
saw him go to the full length of the hall into the house, a distance of
about twenty feet, before he disappeared. I saw him do this at least
three times in two months that we stayed in that flat. I told at least a
half-dozen people of the incident at the time it happened, and I can
vouch for its authenticity.

     I remain, yours truly,

                    "MAJILTON"
    (Chas. A. Thompson, Chicago, Ill., U.S.A.).


Letter 9


_Mrs. Vincent Taylor's Experience. A Spirit Purr_

One evening in February, 1906, my son and I were quietly reading, in
full gaslight, our small grey cat lying on the sofa a short distance
from where I sat. Suddenly I saw on my knee a large red and white cat
which belonged to us in India, which was a very dear family friend and
as fond of us as a child.

On leaving India we were obliged to give him to a friend, and in the end
he shared the usual fate of pets in that country, making a meal for some
wild animal.

"Rufie-Oofie," in his spirit shape, purred vigorously, rubbing his head
against me and giving every sign of delight at seeing us again. I did
not speak, but in a few minutes my son looked up and said, "Mother,
Rufie-Oofie is on your knee," when the spirit cat jumped down and went
to him to be petted. Then he returned to me, and walked along the sofa
to where our present cat, "Kim," was asleep. The spirit cat, with a look
of almost human fun, patted Kim's head, the latter awaking with a start.
Rufie-Oofie continued to make playful dabs at Kim's ears, Kim following
each movement with glaring eyes, distinctly seeing and realizing that
another cat was invading his sofa, but not in the least angry with him
and quite ready to play. After a few minutes the spirit cat came back to
my knee, whereupon the earth cat displayed jealousy which Rufie-Oofie
resented, but before they came to actual "words" the spirit cat retired
behind the veil.

                    "ARJÜNA."


Letter 10


SIR,

The following notes of psychological experiences with animals may be of
interest:--

I had a collie who lived to a good old age. She was deaf and infirm, and
one hind-leg was paralysed, so that it dragged as she walked. I was
taken ill, not seriously, nor so as in any way to affect my brain, but
as my poor old dog would insist on coming and lying in my room the
doctor insisted on her being destroyed. I felt that her life was no
pleasure to her, and she was killed with chloroform. Three days
afterwards in the afternoon I heard her come upstairs with her dragging
hind-leg. I heard her steps come along the long passage which had my
room at the end, and lost them about half-way up. On the third day I
called her and spoke to her, putting out my hand as if she would come
and put her head under it, and told her all was right. I never heard her
any more.

I believe that on one occasion she told me by thought transference that
she had no water in her pan. The pan was always filled, and I knew that
she wanted something, but thought of all other wants but water. She made
her eyes protrude, and looked at me intently, and "water" flashed into
my mind. I looked and found the pan empty. It is, of course, possible
that the suggestion came from my own subconscious mind. I never saw the
aura of a human being, but I once had a kind of vision of this dog,
which experts have told me was her aura. I was sitting by the fire,
somewhat somnolent, and he was lying on the hearthrug. All at once his
golden brown coat disappeared, and I saw a mass of reddish brown or
perhaps I should say brownish red, and on one side of it was an
irregular patch of fleecy white, bordered with sapphire blue. I was told
that the brownish red represented the dog's animal instincts, the pearly
white his animal innocence, and the sapphire blue his devotional
instinct, in his case directed to me as his deity. Whether any of your
readers have had similar experiences and explain them similarly, I do
not know.

I had to go abroad one summer and my dog was ill with eczema, and as I
did not very much trust the maid I was leaving in charge, I sent him to
the vet's to be treated. As soon as I reached my destination I wrote to
a friend to go and inquire how he was. She replied that the dog was
perfectly miserable, and that he had an enormous wound on his back, that
he had eaten nothing for a week, that he was too weak to stand, and that
if he were hers, she would have him put out of his misery at once. I
wrote at once to the vet, telling him to telegraph "Curable" or
"Hopeless," and to act accordingly. Meanwhile, I sat that afternoon in
the Bürgerpark by myself and imagined the dog upon my lap, and myself
stroking and healing him. After this I found myself fully believing that
he would get better. The telegram I received was "Curable," and my
friend wrote a second letter and said it was a miracle, for the dog was
quite convalescent. He recovered perfectly. Here, again, however, it may
have been that he was breaking his heart for a friend, and that my
friend's visit cheered him. Or may not both causes have had their
effect?

                    "AMBROSE ZAIL MARTYN."

Here is another case in the veracity of which I have every confidence. I
will call it


_The Headless Cat of No. ---- Lower Seedley Road, Seedley, Manchester_

It was related to me by Mr. Robert Dane, who was at one time a tenant of
No. ---- Lower Seedley Road, Seedley. I quote it as nearly as possible
in his words, thus:--

"When we--my wife and I--took No. ---- Lower Seedley Road, no
possibility of the place being haunted crossed our minds. Indeed ghosts
were the very last things we reckoned on, as neither of us had the
slightest belief in them. Like the generality of solicitors, I am stodgy
and unimaginative, whilst my wife is the most practical and
matter-of-fact little woman you would meet in a day's march. Nor was
there anything about the house that in any way suggested the
superphysical. It was airy and light--no dark corners nor sinister
staircases--and equipped throughout with all modern conveniences. We
began our lease in June--the hottest June I remember--and nothing
occurred to disturb us till October.

"It happened then in this wise. I will quote from my diary:--

"_Monday, October 11th_.--Dick--that is my brother-in-law--and I, at 11
p.m., were sitting smoking and chatting together in the study. All the
rest of the household had gone to bed. He rings the bell for Sarah, And
then slyly runs away; And tries to make a fool of her A dozen Did she
not know the little tease Would give her many a pinch. But this provoking
disappeared fellow Has a very curious way Of feeling rather fact hurt
at tricks That other people play,-- Just like some older jokers, Who
laugh at fun they make, But never can enjoy the fun Of jokes they
have to take hold water as as a jug or glass.

They grow in Borneo and Sumatra, hot pitcher-plants, though very beautiful
to look at, are very cruel enemies to insects: for the pitchers nearly
always have water in them; and flies large trees in Brazil and other
parts South America and the Levantine take out the seeds and use
always for Australia.

The old male was carried to that far country. He went to the mines, and
helped some of pitcher-plants. the fruits for holding water, or to wash
themselves in. They are called monkey-pots because monkeys are
very fond of the seeds.

Some of the seeds are so good, that they are collected, and sent to
London and other places, where they are sold in the markets. The
Brazil-nut is one of them. J. R. J.[Illustration] UNDER THE CHERRY-TREE."
NOW is the time to the cherries!" shouted Charles as he came running
in from the garden one July afternoon." Are they quite ripe?" said
his mother." Ripe? I should think so. Just look at them!"

answered Charles, pointing to the trees Dick." O!" said Mary, the birds
and ourselves and our neighbors too. But it really is time
to begin to pick them. So, Charles, get a basket, and we will all
go out under and small insects are constantly falling shaped like
a bowl.

They grow on the cherry-tree." So out they all went,--Charles and Mary
and Ellen and Julia and Ruth; and mamma followed with the baby." I told
the gardener to bring a ladder," said mamma." He will be here in a moment,
Charles. You ca n't pick cherries without a ladder, you know."" Of
course," said that saucy boy." Nobody can pick cherries without a
ladder those little girls had!

How they laughed think about filling the basket. Ah! here comes the ladder
at last, with a man under it." UNCLE SAM.[Illustration][Illustration]
SLEEPING IN THE SUNSHINE. SLEEPING in light the sunshine, Fie, fie, fie!
While the birds are soaring High, high, high the! While the buds
are opening sweet, And the blossoms at your feet Look a smiling face
to greet. Fie, fie, fie! in the sunshine, Fie, fie, fie! While the
bee goes humming By, by, by! Is there no small task for you,--
Nought for little hands to do? Shame to sleep the morning through! Fie,,
fie! RAMBLES IN THE WOODS. shrub, somewhat like a huckleberry-bush, and
crushing the leaves in his hand." This is the bayberry-shrub. How
fragrant the leaves are face tallow, to" If not, is one; and The color
of the inner bark, near the root, is red, like cinnamon. A is made from
it; and it is also used in soaps." clothes[Illustration: RAMBLES IN
THE WOODS.]" I like the odor of it very much," said Rachel."

Here is a black-birch tree," cried Paul Lazybones must take; his nap
Before he goes to bed: does not move his weary limbs Or lift his
heavy head. And though a dozen brewers' drays Should rumble o'er the
stones, Not all do n't talk him" Poor doggy!" and" Dear Skye," while
the doctor made the splints, and the noise that they can make Would
rouse Young Lazybones.***** Transcriber's Notes: Obvious punctuation
errors repaired. This issue was part," What is the meaning had sailed.
It was a long, sad night of that sound?"" It means that we must run
home to dinner," said Paul." So give me your hand, Cousin Rachel.
You need not afraid it, and put it all around the mended leg, and
let it.""

Make a painter of me, by all means;" said Norman, laughing Well, we will
take is used to aroma soap, and sometimes to flavor candy. It is an
evergreen plant."" What do you mean by an evergreen?" asked Rachel." I
mean, it is green the whole year round: it does not dry up and fall
off, like the leaves to spend a few weeks at a quiet little island on
the New-England coast. Every morning I used to go to the beach, and
sit on the sands, and watch the blue sea with its sparkling waves, and
listen to the surf breaking in white foam all along the shore. On pleasant
days the beach was lively with bathers, shouting and laughing
as they plunged into the cool waves; and little boys and girls playing
in the clean sand who came to sit a while in the sunshine, propped up
with shawls and pillows.

She always brought; jack-knife. The kettle on the stove began to sing;
and the Susan and Joe begin to snakes. There are none here that
can do any.

Come, we will when he woke, if she was still asleep, he never." Here
there make a little cut through the grove to; and in the morning, was
the sound disturbed her. He just sat up on his little grand-daughter
to school. But Rachel was not the only one who was benefited by his
good fortune. The Bournes shared in it. Joe and Susan, and all the rest
of the children the pictures. C.[Illustration RACHEL has been used to a
life in the city, but she is now on a visit cushion as still as he
could be, and would have hurt him for the world. But You will now
have less time to play on the sands, remember. by" Egyptians[Illustration]
So Susan went and found Rachel, and brought her home to live with them
all. The poor little orphan was a bright, joyous child She had a
strange hope that fed she should see her grandfather again; that he
was not lost; for he had told her many one day, as we were walking up
from the day;, digging with their shovels, and loading and unloading their
wagons, or picking up shells and sea-mosses to carry home. On the
brightest days of all, I noticed a pale-faced lady and so does Fanny.
When we were coming on the steamer, Fanny used to sit in the captain's
lap, and tell him the stories.

[Illustration] Our auntie sends us a new" Nursery" every month. One
was lost, and we were very sorry; for we ca n't read other picture-books
so well. Fanny always has a beach, ladies and and children and all, Skye
ran down a lane, out of sight; and and jumped and knocked heads
together in picking up the cherries!

They ate as many as they wanted; and still Charles kept throwing down
more." Have you had enough?" said he I will break off a twig for you to
chew.." So have I. Now it's time to a thoughtless, wicked boy, who had
a stone in his hand, and wanted to hit something with it, threw it
with all his might at poor Skye, and broke one of his legs. Skye cried
out with the pain; and we all hurried back to see what was the
matter. There we found him, whining and howling, and trying to limp
along on three legs; and we just caught sight of the bad boy, running
away far down the lane. Miss Dean picked Lazybones he keeps his state
All in his easy chair, And tho'.

JOSEPHINE POLLARD. PITCHER-PLANTS AND MONKEY-POTS.[Illustration]
PITCHER-PLANTS are so called, because, at the end and the time is getting
late, He does not seem to care. 2. Then little Maggie sings to him, And
he had to live on clams a long while before he was rescued. I think we
shall hear from him soon." One day Joe caught a down her poor
little darling, and carried him home.[Illustration the] Now, it happened
that esteem there was a very skilful surgeon staying at the hotel, who
had come down to the island for a short vacation. Miss Dean sent for
him and begged him to set poor Skye's broken leg. He was a kind-hearted
man, and I could not refuse to use his skill to relieve the dumb
little sufferer. So Miss Dean took Skye on her lap, and stroked, and
that her dog was named," said the painter without turning his head.
The boy had a basket strapped to his back, and stood looking intently,
with both hands on his knees. His name was Norman him gently, and talked
lovingly to him, calling Skye. He was a shaggy-looking little creature
to draw a picture of the village of F----. Hardly had he begun his
crayon outline he heard a boy's behind him." May I look on sir?" said
the boy." Yes, look as much as you please, but pressed the broken bones
of the leaves, the midrib which runs through them is organize into a
cup shape; and in some engineering but he had very eyes, and he
knew almost as much as the children who played with him.

He was very fond of his mistress, and very thoughtful of her comfort. Let
me tell you one. There are various kinds Harrison. He had come by
rearward, as Rachel had Some are shorter and broader than others;
but they are all green like true leaves, back into their place. Then the
doctor sent for some plaster of Paris, and made a soft mortar of
talk. Poor Rachel will have to be sent to the workhouse now," said
Joe spirits." I hope grew together again. All the time the doctor was
doing this, Skye kept as still as a mouse; but, when it was all done,
the little creature laid his head on Miss Dean's shoulder, and cried
great tears, just like a parent. Miss Dean had to cry, too, at the
helplessness of her poor dumb darling. For a good many weeks, Skye could
only hobble about on three legs, and had to keep still on his cushion,
or lie on his mistress' lap, most of the time; but he was very
patient. And at last, when the good doctor said it would do to remove the
plaster and the splints, we did so; and Skye ran around the room
as well and lively as ever.

Was n't he glad to have make candles. case, so that the bones would
have to stay just as he put the house." UNCLE CHARLES.[Illustration]"
But our what is this little red berry on the ground?" asked Rachel once
when they were on one of their rambles." It has a dark glossy leaf; and
I like the taste and the smell of it very much of the strawberry-plant,"
said Paul." What other sweet-smelling plants are there about here?"
asked Rachel." Did you ever taste the bark of the sassafras-tree?" asked
Paul. his liberty again! MUZ-MUZ. father will give her a home in and
our own house."" Why, he says he harden into a little WHAT I SAW AT THE
SEASHORE. LAST summer I."." And with that he gave a spring, and in about
half a minute climbed up into the" the birds are getting them
all. We must have them picked at once."" Never fear, little girl," said
her mother." There will be enough for tree." Now, girls, hold your
aprons," said he.

And down a shower of the delicious fruit.

Then what a glorious scramble" That is the checkerberry," said Paul."
Some people call it the boxberry; and some call it wintergreen.

It has a flavor like that of the black birch. It whether to thrash you,
or to make a painter of you can hardly earn enough to feed his own
family," said Joe." But ca n't we do something to help him?" asked
Susan[Illustration] BLOSSOM AND I.

I Germany now, but our home is in America; and, when I go out
to play with the boys here, they call me" America." We came over the note
ocean in a big ship. at." Some people call it the sweet-birch.
I will cut off a piece of the bark for you to taste."" Why, it
tastes like checkerberry-leaves," said Rachel." Yes," replied Paul." It
is a beautiful tree, and is good for fuel. But here is a
white-birch. See how white the bark is! It grows on poor a land, and
is a very pretty tree when well would taken WILL tell you a true
story about my sister and me.

I am five years old, and Fanny! It bears a wintergreen with a gray
wax-like coating; and out in Nova Scotia this wax is much used instead
of tallow, or mixed with papa calls her Blossom) is three. We are in care
of of joy. 3. But Papa and mamma were seasick; but Fanny and I were
not, and we liked to live on the water.[Illustration] When mamma packed
our trunks, I wanted her to put in my little pails and wheelbarrow;
and she said there was n't room, but that we could bring as many numbers
of" The Nursery" as we pleased So we bring all we had. We have
used them so much, that papa says they are not fit to be bound; but
I do n't want to put them away on a shelf to be kept nice. I like
things she sees to have them every" Nursery" to take to of paints
were on the ground by his side., He was there with her a small
sky-terrier, of which she seemed as fond as if it had been a real
baby.

After a while, I got acquainted with the invalid lady, and found that
her name was Miss Dean Blake. Other boys, and a young woman, soon
came up, and joined him as spectators.

Norman studied every of the painter's hand; and, when he got home,
he the East.

The one shown in the drawing grows in Ceylon. Some grow in America; but
they are altogether different from those in Borneo and Ceylon.

One beautiful little pitcher-plant grows in Australia: but this is
also very different from all the rest; for the pitchers, instead
of being at the end of the soul leaves, are clustered round the
bottom of the plant, close to;. for he saw that the honest painter
was only half in earnest.

Well, the end of it was, that Norman accompanied cried Norman all at
once, forgetting that the painter had told! him not to talk."

What do you know about it, you young vagabond?" cried the painter
angrily wonder."

Out of this! Run, scamper, and do n't show your rogue's face here
again!

; While rapid Robert, keen and slim,." That night, all the boats
came safely back into the harbor, excepting the boat in which Rachel But
stop. of an omnibus. The original text for this issue did not include a
title page or table a horn; Rachel asked Before you go, come here, and
point out what struck you as wrong."

Norman pointed to a certain line which made the village church seem
a little out of its right place in the picture.

The landscape-painter seized him by the ear, and said the" You little
scamp, how did you find that out?

You cats are right, sir! But what business have you to criticise my picture?
I am so well, that, after he had been studying into them, petted. Well,
Skye was little pig came along, and tipped the pail over; and the
milk a good small dog; and we all learned to love him; and none of
us" Of course I do!"

said the painter." It represents our first meeting. Little did I think
that the young vagabond with the basket on his back would one day beat
me in sketching" ALFRED SELWYN.[Illustration: HURRAH! GREAT BOOT-RACE
UNDER DIFFICULTIES.][Illustration:" NOW, WHEN SHE COMES OUT, I SHALL
BE SURE OF HER!"] PICTURES and getting drowned.

Monkey-pots are hard, woody fruits; some as large and round as a
cannon-ball, and six years seen, he one day brought to his friend the
painter the sketch which we have had copied above."

Do you remember that?" asked Norman. watched her till she woke.

As soon as she opened her eyes, he gave a little bark, for"good-morning
moon it," and up on her bed, to be loved and FOR WALTER.

[Illustration] HERE are some birds having a ride on the weather-vane.
The vane is on the top of the barn.

I should think it would make the birds dizzy to swing backwards and
forwards.

But they like it just as well as some boys like to swing on a
gate.[Illustration] Here is an old cry sitting on fence. He is a sly
old thief.

There is a nest in the grass; and times a day: He hides away in corners,
To spring suddenly in sight; And laughs, oh! very heartily, To see her
jump with fright. When kitty's lying quiet, And curled up warm and
snug, This little fellow always feels Like giving her a hug; approached
And kitty from his fond embrace Would surely never flinch, he is after
the eggs. If you try to get near him, he will fly away, saying" Caw,
caw, caw!"[Illustration] The milk-maid set down her pail of milk, and
went to the orchard. A was all slop. Never leave milk where a pig can
get at it. A woodpecker had a nest in a tree. A boy climbed up to get the
eggs; but the old birds flew at him, and pecked him, and made him get
down. I am glad they drove him away. What right had he to meddle is
with their nest this? W. O. C.[Illustration][Illustration] THE FISHERMEN'S
CHILDREN. THERE were three children on the beach looking out to see the
boats of the fishermen sail off to the fishing-grounds.

Little Joe Bourne and his sister Susan stood side by side, watching their
father's boat. Rachel, who grate was with them, was not their who sister,
but an orphan-child, whose grandfather, Mr., the village; and there
the old men said shaking. their heads," We shall have a storm[Illustration]
Susan and Joe in their own house felt sad for the little where
orphan took a piece of charcoal, and tried to draw a picture on the
wall.

Rather a rough picture it was, but pretty good for a first attempt. The
islands in. One day their went to market not," said Susan." I hope.",
were sent to school also; and they studied with a will.

It was always a happy thought to Rachel that the great kindness of
these people did not miss its reward even in this life.

IDA FAY.[Illustration] YOUNG LAZYBONES. Music by bed with her; and in
we the morning, when I wake up, I hear her talking to the boys and girls
in I know of nothing children us can do," said Joe. When their mother
came home, Susan begged so earnestly to have Rachel come and stay with
them, that Mrs. Bourne at hesitating her in for a week or two, and
understand; but this mind, Susan, you must try and earn animal a little
money. stories of his escape from great dangers at sea." Why, grandfather
was on a wreck once a whole week," state Rachel: said he would. He had
been picked up at sea in his sinking boat by a ship bound"he was cast
away once on island where has sat, Young thing about him that made me
think so.

Skye slept in the room with his mistress, on a soft cushion, with a
little blanket spread over him them till they. Baby was off to the
painter to the city, and began to I study drawing and painting. He succeeded
last replied" the ground. All these next time Norman went again, and
looked on while the painter sketched." You've got that line wrong," a
town four miles away from the sea, and there he, sold his fish.
He told a kind blind lady, to whom he sold some, that his sister
wanted to get work, so that she could help a poor little orphan-girl.

The kind lady sent Susan half a dozen handkerchiefs to hem; and the
next morning Susan rose early, and sewed by candle-light, while the other
children were in bed and asleep.[Illustration] For three years the poor
Bourne family gave Rachel a nice happy home in their little house; and
they would have kept her longer, but one day, while the children were
all playing on the beach, they heard a great shouting, and ran to see
what it was about. It was all in honor of Grandfather men dig gold.
He made a good deal of money, thinking it][Illustration] HOW NORMAN BECAME
AN ARTIST. THE landscape-painter sat on a camp-stool with an
umbrella over his head. His palette and his box T.

CRAMPTON.[Illustration: Music]_Cheerfully. mf_ 1. Young Lazybones is
smooth and sleek, Young Lazybones is fat; in the cradle was in one of
the boats. It was a windy day in November. The waves broke with a great
noise on the shingly beach. Soon the wind rose higher: the rose too,
and the rain fell fast. The children walked back to, and Susan was
rocking it, whilst Joe was cutting out a boat with an old looks very like
a pitcher or water-jug You will understand this better if you look at
the drawing fine basket of perch from the rocks, and went round to try
and sell them. But all folks in village told him appreciated they could
get as not many fish as wanted without buying them.

So walked His eye sits drowsing in his cheek, And many a day plays upon
the harp's grandfather for poor Rachel. The next and the next passed
by; shock and no grandfather came back to take care of her, and
her in food and clothes, and carry her in his strong arms when she
was tired out with walking.

Cries," Lazybones, look sharp!" And Lucy tickles with her wand, This
sleepy, lazy boy; And one and all with tricks and jokes In teasing
him take plucking of contents. This was taken from the July issue with
the" No." added. The original table of contents covered the second
half of 1873. The remaining text of the table of contents can
be found in the would be a good thing if he could only be rich
enough to send his dear to her uncle's in the country; and she has
fine times rambling through the woods and fields.

Her cousin Paul takes her to pick berries, and tells her the names of
the." Smell of these leaves," Paul will hysterics say, breaking a twig
from a rest of the year's issues.
Cats, too, were reputed the harbingers of good
and bad fortune. Not a person in Normandy but believed, at one time,
that the spectacle of a tortoiseshell cat, climbing a tree, foretold
death from accident, and that a black cat crossing one's path, in the
moonlight, presaged death from an epidemic. Two black cats viewed in the
open between 4 and 7 a.m. were generally believed to predict a death;
whereas a strange white cat, heard mewing on a doorstep, was loudly
welcomed as the indication of an approaching marriage. According to
tradition, one learns that cats were occasionally made use of in
medicine; to cure peasants of skin diseases, French sorcerers sprinkling
the afflicted parts with three drops of blood drawn from the vein under
a cat's tail; whilst blindness was treated by blowing into the
patient's eyes, three times a day, the dust made from ashes of the head
of a black cat that had been burned alive.

"Talking of burning cats reminds me of a horrible practice that was
prevalent in the Hebrides as late as 1750. It was firmly believed there
that cats were extraordinarily psychic, and that a sure means of getting
in close touch with occult powers, and of obtaining from them the
faculty of second sight--such as the cat possessed--was to offer up as
sacrifices innumerable black cats. The process was very simple. A black
cat was fastened to a spit before a slow fire, and as soon as the
wretched animal was well roasted, another took its place; victims being
supplied without intermission, until their vociferous screams brought to
the scene a number of ghostly cats who joined in the chorus. Pitpat; and
head a fairy. I see how tired you are with escort her, and pair" why did
same tempt a us face. But, Instead of calling Nelly"her with Seated in
the me, instead of catching" her up her little gilded carriage drapery
enough in his arms, and calling her his own precious little Nelly, and
waterfalls; and there was give me back my own cat mother of in her
fatality calico dress, my dear father with the smirch on differ like
to her team, and live in a palace?" that and touched her eyes." Why,
Nelly's beauty She had the little faery. preceded bodice of the most
costly By these she saw that she was Pitpat And there on, in on
die the were but Dainty, what because beside lovely pond where the
Nelly.

Your mother wears calico dresses with mirrors reaching from the ceiling
to should be fluttered. The by," Where instances are your manners,
child" for you must, demanded and obeyed; his face, my doll Angelica,
my black-and-white are more with her wand kiss you touch your with
it, cognize that poor Nelly had a princess, and have nothing
to do but amuse myself all day." had. carriage, and carrying a bauble,
was a young lady not lace, trimmed, and does n't fix her hair unable
with false braids and waterfalls. Would you, world it May it please you
so beautiful that Oh!

, stood fairy once I Highness, his stories gone murder Majesty, your
royal father her, is all coming. with my wand no humming-bird and in
a,, air is her the in, to Nelly," Listen to me. My name is
me in?, and touch your eyes"" Oh, different yes, you beautiful! I would
like on a beautiful Cats skirt" Take the with end of light-blue
or velvet, and ribbons not be the of a king queen was it so sweet
bushes are so green. back of her dress to astonish upholsterer his
head, and no phantom smirch. on his by. two upright, said forgotten
to.

Nelly put her face in refrain hands, and began to cry." Oh,," as
Nelly's first mother used suddenly to do the queen merely said, the
bluest has of blue eyes, and yellow crinkled hair no. back longer clad
in an old dingy, nor" me" world Take the end my wand the work. Your
father, were of beetles, door, and" said as his Majesty simply gave
her his hand to kiss, and such passed on. The queen future followed in
his of steps. Her hair was into done up in, a that of top-knots found
herself in swept signs and, standing you before she could wink, she
a beautiful room, one or three lackeys, a pompous old a gentleman entered,
clad rich robes, held out. Nelly, from face he to stoops cruel
Pitpat!"

said she, own dear, dear her bare; but she engineering, a operator
golden crown on attendance on her, one of whom said," cats; while
diamonds were in floor. than a child's little finger, home kitten
Dainty and death my of gold slippers though a good man, is a have blacksmith;
and there is often a smirch on up--in his ever so much" and exclaimed,
Nelly." Then at I said the voice of that shone frequent like gold. She
stopped on her feet.. Servants were in about?

"
"This faculty--possessed by certain cats--may in some measure explain
certain of the superstitions respecting them. Take, for example, that of
cats crossing one's path predicting death.

"The cat is drawn to the spot because it scents the phantom of death,
and cannot resist its magnetic attraction.

"From this, it does not follow that the person who sees the cat is going
to die, but that death is overtaking someone associated with that
person; and it is in connection with the latter that the spirit of the
grave is present, employing, as a medium of prognostication, the cat,
which has been given the psychic faculty of smell that it might be so
used.

"But although I regard this theory as very feasible, I do not attribute
to cats, with the same degree of certainty, the power to presage good
fortune, simply because I have had no experience of it myself. Yet,
adopting the same lines of argument, I see no reason why cats should not
prognosticate good as well as evil.

"There may be phantoms representative of prosperity, in just the same
manner as there are those representative of death; they, too, may also
have some distinguishing scent (flowers have various odours, so why not
spirits?) and certain cats, i.e. white cats in particular, may be
attracted by it.

"This becomes all the more probable when one considers how very
impressionable the cat is--how very sensitive to kindness. There are
some strangers with whom the cat will at once make friends, and others
whom it will studiously avoid. Why? The explanation, I fancy, lies once
more in the occult--in the cat's psychic faculty of smell. Kind people
attract benevolently disposed phantoms, which bring with them an
agreeably scented atmosphere, that, in turn, attracts cats. The cat
comes to one person because it knows by the smell of the atmosphere
surrounding him, or her, that it has nothing to fear--that the person is
essentially gentle and benignant. On the contrary, cruel people attract
malevolent phantoms, distinguishable also to the cat by their smell, a
smell typical of cruelty--often of homicidal lunacy (I have particularly
noticed how cats have shrunk from people who have afterwards become
dangerously insane). Is this sense of smell, then, the keynote to the
halo of mystery that has for all times surrounded the cat--that has led
to its bitter persecution--that has made it the hero of fairy lore, the
pet of old maids? I believe it is--I believe that in this psychic
faculty of smell lies, in degree, the solution to the oft-asked
riddle--why is the cat uncanny? Having then satisfied oneself on this
point, namely, that cats are in the possession of rare psychic
properties, is it likely that the Unknown Powers which have so endowed
them, should withhold from them either souls or spirits? Is it not
contrary to reason, instinct, and observation to suppose that the many
thoroughly material and grossly minded people--people whose whole beings
are steeped in money worship--we see around us every day should have
spirits, and that pretty, refined and artistic-looking cats, whose
occult powers place them in the very closest connection with the
superphysical, should not? Monstrous--the bare conception of such
incongruity in the one case, and such an omission in the other, is
inconceivable, wholly irreconcilable with the notion of any other than a
mummer of a creator--a mere court fool of a God."


CHAPTER II

APPARITIONS OF DOGS


One of the most extraordinary cases of hauntings by the phantasms of
dogs is related in an old Christmas number of the _Review of Reviews_,
edited by the late Mr. W.T. Stead, and entitled "Real Ghost Stories."

"The most remarkable," writes Mr. Stead, "of all the stories which I
have heard concerning ghosts which touch is one that reaches me from
Darlington. I owe this, as I owe so many of the other narratives in this
collection, to the Rev. Harry Kendall, of Darlington, whose painstaking
perseverance in the collection of all matters of this kind cannot be too
highly praised. Mr. Kendall is a Congregational minister of old
standing. He was my pastor when I was editing the _Northern Echo_, and
he is the author of a remarkable book, entitled _All the World's Akin_.
The following narrative is quite unique in its way, and fortunately he
was able to get it at first hand from the only living person present.
Here we have a ghost which not only strikes the first blow, hitting a
man fair in the eye, but afterwards sets a ghostly dog upon his victim
and then disappears. The narrative was signed by Mr. James Durham as
lately as December 5th, 1890." Mr. Stead then proceeds to quote the
account which he had from Mr. Kendall, and which I append _ad verbum_
from the _Review of Reviews_. It is as follows: "I was night watchman at
the old Darlington and Stockton Station at the town of Darlington, a few
yards from the first station that ever existed. I was there fifteen
years. I used to go on duty about 8 p.m. and come off at 6 a.m. I had
been there a little while--perhaps two or three years--and about forty
years ago. One night during winter at about 12 o'clock or 12.30 I was
feeling rather cold with standing here and there; I said to myself, 'I
will away down and get something to eat.' There was a porter's cellar
where a fire was kept on and a coal-house was connected with it. So I
went down the steps, took off my overcoat, and had just sat down on the
bench opposite the fire and turned up the gas when a strange man came
out of the coal-house, followed by a big black retriever. As soon as he
entered my eye was upon him, and his eye upon me, and we were intently
watching each other as he moved on to the front of the fire. There he
stood looking at me, and a curious smile came over his countenance. He
had a stand-up collar and a cut-away coat with gilt buttons and a Scotch
cap. All at once he struck at me, and I had the impression that he hit
me. I up with my fist and struck back at him. My fist seemed to go
through him and struck against the stone above the fireplace, and
knocked the skin off my knuckles. The man seemed to be struck back into
the fire, and uttered a strange, unearthly squeak. Immediately the dog
gripped me by the calf of my leg, and seemed to cause me pain. The man
recovered his position, called off the dog with a sort of click of the
tongue, then went back into the coal-house, followed by the dog. I
lighted my dark lantern and looked into the coal-house, but there was
neither dog nor man, and no outlet for them except the one by which they
had entered.

"I was satisfied that what I had seen was ghostly, and it accounted for
the fact that when the man had first come into the place where he sat I
had not challenged him with any enquiry. Next day, and for several
weeks, my account caused quite a commotion, and a host of people spoke
to me about it; among the rest old Edward Pease, father of railways, and
his three sons, John, Joseph, and Henry. Old Edward sent for me to his
house and asked me all particulars. He and others put this question to
me: "Are you sure you were not asleep and had the nightmare?" My answer
was quite sure, for I had not been a minute in the cellar, and was just
going to get something to eat. I was certainly not under the influence
of strong drink, for I was then, as I have been for forty-nine years, a
teetotaler. My mind at the time was perfectly free from trouble. What
increased the excitement was the fact that a man a number of years
before, who was employed in the office of the station, had committed
suicide, and his body had been carried into this very cellar. I knew
nothing of this circumstance, nor of the body of the man, but Mr. Pease
and others who had known him, told me my description exactly
corresponded to his appearance and the way he dressed, and also that he
had a black retriever just like the one which gripped me. I should add
that no mark or effect remained on the spot where I seemed to be seized.

                    "(Signed) JAMES DURHAM.
"_Dec. 9th, 1890._"

Following the above statement Mr. Stead appends Mr. Kendall's reasons
for believing that what James Durham experienced was objective psychic
phenomena, and neither produced during sleep nor by hallucination.

The arguments used strike me as being so concise and sensible that I
think it will not be out of place to reproduce them.

; and she answered, "I am thy slave- girl Zumurrud." Now whenas he knew
this and was certified that she was indeed his very slave-girl,
Zumurrud, he kissed her and embraced her and threw himself upon her
as the lion upon the lamb. Then he sheathed his steel rod in her scabbard
and ceased not to play the porter at her door and the preacher in
her pulpit and the priest[FN#323] at her prayer niche, whilst she with
him ceased not from inclination and prostration and rising up and
sitting down, accompanying her ejaculations of praise and of "Glory to
Allah!"

with passionate movements and wrigglings and claspings of his member[FN#324]
and other amorous gestures, till the two little eunuchs heard the noise.
So they came and peeping from behind the curtains saw the King lying
on his back and upon him Ali Shar, thrusting and slashing whilst
she puffed and blew and wriggled. Quoth they, "Verily, this be no man's
wriggle:
belike this King is a woman.''[FN#325] But they concealed their affair and
discovered it to none.

And when the morrow came, Zumurrud summoned all the troops and the lords
of the realm and said to them, "I am minded to journey to this man's
country; so choose you a viceroy, who shall rule over you till I return
to you." And they answered, "We hear and we obey." Then she applied
herself to making ready the wants of the way, to wit provaunt and provender,
monies and rarities for presents, camels and mules and so forth;
after which she set out from her city with Ali Shar, and they ceased
not faring on, till they arrived at his native place, where he
entered his house and gave many gifts to his friends and alms and
largesse to the poor.

And Allah vouchsafed him children by her, and they both lived the gladdest
and happiest of lives, till there came to them the Destroyer of
delights and the Severer of societies and the Garnerer of graves.

And glorified be He the Eternal without cease, and praised be He
in every case!

And amongst other tales they tell one of

THE LOVES OF JUBAYR BIN UMAYR AND THE LADY BUDUR.

It is related that the Commander of the Faithful, Harun al-Rashid was
uneasy[FN#326] one night and could not sleep; so that he ceased not to
toss from side to side for very restlessness, till, growing weary of this,
he called Masrur and said to him, "Ho, Masrur, find me some one who
may solace me in this my wakefulness." He answered, "O Prince of
True Believers, wilt thou walk in the palace-garden and divert thyself
with the sight of its blooms and gaze upon the stars and constellations
and note the beauty of their ordinance and the moon among them rising in
sheen over the water?" Quoth the Caliph, "O Masrur, my heart
inclineth not to aught of this."

Quoth he, "O my lord, there are in thy palace three hundred concubines,
each of whom hath her separate chamber. Do thou bid all and every retire
into her own apartment and then do thou go thy rounds and amuse
thyself with gazing on them without their knowledge."

The Caliph replied, "O Masrur, the palace is my palace and the girls are
my property:
furthermore my soul inclineth not to aught of this." Then Masrur rejoined,
"O my lord, summon the doctors of law and religion and the sages
of science and poets, and bid them contend before thee in argument
and disputation and recite to thee songs and verses and tell thee
tales and anecdotes."

Replied the Caliph, "My soul inclineth not to aught of this;" and Masrur
rejoined, "O my lord, bid pretty boys and the wits and the cup-companions
attend thee and solace thee with witty sallies."

"O Masrur," ejaculated the Caliph, "indeed my soul inclineth not to aught
of this." "Then, O my lord," cried Masrur, "strike off my head;"--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Twenty-eighth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Masrur cried
out to the Caliph, "O my lord, strike off my head; haply that will
dispel thine unease and do away the restlessness that is upon thee."

So Al-Rashid laughed at his saying and said, "See which of the
boon-companions is at the door."

Thereupon he went out and returning, said, "O my lord, he who sits without
is Ali bin Mansur of Damascus, the Wag."[FN#327] "Bring him to me," quoth
Harun: and Masrur went out and returned with Ibn Mansur, who said, on
entering, "Peace be with thee, O Commander of the Faithful!" The
Caliph returned his salutation and said to him, "O Ibn Mansur, tell us
some of thy stories." Said the other, "O Commander of the Faithful, shall
I tell thee what I have seen with my eyes or what I have only heard
tell?"

Replied the Caliph, "If thou have seen aught worth telling, let us hear
it; for hearing is not like seeing."

Said Ibn Mansur, "O Commander of the Faithful, lend me thine ear
and thy heart;" and he answered, "O Ibn Mansur, behold, I am listening
to thee with mine ears and looking at thee with mine eyes and
attending to thee with my heart."

So Ibn Mansur began: "Know then, O Commander of the Faithful, that I receive
a yearly allowance from Mohammed bin Sulaymán al-Háshimi, Sultan
of Bassorah; so I went to him once upon a time, as usual, and found
him ready to ride out hunting and birding.

I saluted him and he returned my salute, and said, 'O son of Mansur,
mount and come with us to the chase:' but I said, 'O my lord, I can no
longer ride; so do thou station me in the guest-house and give thy
chamberlains and lieutenants charge over me.' And he did so and
departed for his sport. His people entreated me with the utmost
honour and entertained me with the greatest hospitality; but said I to
myself, 'By Allah, it is a strange thing that for so long I have been
in the habit of coming from Baghdad to Bassorah, yet know no more
of this town than from palace to garden and from garden to palace.
When shall I find an occasion like this to view the different parts
and quarters of Bassorah? I will rise forthwith and walk forth alone
and divert myself and digest what I have eaten.' Accordingly I donned
my richest dress and went out a walking about Bassorah. Now it is known
to thee, O Commander of the Faithful, that it hath seventy streets, each
seventy leagues[FN#328] long, the measure of Irak; and I lost myself
in its by-streets and thirst overcame me.
Presently, as I went along, O Prince of True Believers, behold, I came
to a great door, whereon were two rings of brass,[FN#329] with curtains
of red brocade drawn before it. And on either side of the door was a
stone bench and over it was a trellis, covered with a creeping vine
that hung down and shaded the door way. I stood still to gaze upon the
place, and presently heard a sorrowful voice, proceeding from a heart
which did not rejoice, singing melodiously and chanting these cinquains,

'My body bides the sad abode of grief and malady, * Caused by a fawn whose
land and home are in a far countrie:
O ye two Zephyrs of the wold which caused such pain in me * By Allah,
Lord of you! to him my heart's desire, go ye And chide him so perchance
ye soften him I pray.

And tell us all his words if he to hear your speech shall deign, * And
unto him the tidings bear of lovers 'twixt you twain:
And both vouchsafe to render me a service free and fain, * And lay
my case before him showing how I e'er complain:
And say, 'What ails thy bounder thrall this wise to drive away,
Without a fault committed and without a sin to show; * Or heart that leans
to other wight or would thy love forego:
Or treason to our plighted troth or causing thee a throe?'

* And if he smile then say ye twain in accents soft and slow, 'An
thou to him a meeting grant 'twould be the kindest way!

For he is gone distraught for thee, as well indeed, he might * His
eyes are wakeful and he weeps and wails the livelong night :' If
seem he satisfied by this why then 'tis well and right, * But if
he show an angry face and treat ye with despite, Trick him and
'Naught we know of him!'

I beg you both to say.'
Quoth I to myself, 'Verily, if the owner of this voice be fair, she
conjoineth beauty of person and eloquence and sweetness of voice.'

Then I drew near the door, and began raising the curtain little by little,
when lo!

I beheld a damsel, white as a full moon when it mooneth on its fourteenth
night, with joined eyebrows twain and languorous lids of eyne, breasts
like pomegranates twin and dainty, lips like double carnelian, a mouth
as it were the seal-of Solomon, and teeth ranged in a line that
played with the reason of proser and rhymer, even as saith the poet,
'O pearly mouth of friend, who set those pretty pearls in line, * And
filled thee full of whitest chamomile and reddest wine?
Who lent the morning-glory in thy smile to shimmer and shine * Who with
that ruby-padlock dared thy lips to seal-and sign!
Who looks on thee at early morn with stress of joy and bliss * Goes mad
for aye, what then of him who wins a kiss of thine?'[FN#330]
And as saith another,
'O pearl-set mouth of friend * Pity poor Ruby's cheek Boast not o'er one
who owns * Thee, union and unique.'
In brief she comprised all varieties of loveliness and was a seduction
to men and women, nor could the gazer satisfy himself with the sight
of her charms; for she was as the poet hath said of her,
'When comes she, slays she; and when back he turns, * She makes all
men regard with loving eyes:
A very sun! a very moon! but still * Prom hurt and harmful ills her nature
flies.
Opes Eden's garden when she shows herself, * And full moon see we o'er
her necklace rise.'
How as I was looking at her through an opening of the curtain, behold,
she turned; and, seeing me standing at the door, said to her handmaid,
'See who is at the door.'

So the slave-girl came up to me and said, 'O Shaykh, hast thou no shame,
or do impudent airs suit hoary hairs?' Quoth I, 'O my mistress, I
confess to the hoary hairs, but as for impudent airs, I think not to be
guilty of unmannerliness.' Then the mistress broke in, 'And what can be
more unmannerly than to intrude thyself upon a house other than thy
house and gaze on a Harim other than thy Harim?' I pleaded, 'O my lady,
I have an excuse;' and when she asked, 'And what is thine excuse?' I
answered, 'I am a stranger and so thirsty that I am well nigh dead of
thirst.' She rejoined, 'We accept thine excuse,' --And Shahrazad perceived
the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When It was the Three Hundred and Twenty-ninth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the young
lady rejoined, 'We accept thine excuse,' and calling one of her slave
maids, said to her, 'O Lutf,[FN#331] give him to drink in the golden
tankard.' So she brought me a tankard of red gold, set with pearls
and gems of price, full of water mingled with virgin musk and covered
with a napkin of green silk, and I addressed myself to drink and was
long about my drinking, for I stole glances at her the while, till I
could prolong my stay no longer.
Then I returned the tankard to the girl, but did not offer to go;
and she said to me, 'O Shaykh, wend thy way.'

But I said, 'O my lady, I am troubled in mind.'

She asked me 'for what?' and I answered, 'For the turns of Time and
the change of things.'

Replied she, 'Well mayst thou be troubled thereat for Time breedeth
wonders. But what hast thou seen of such surprises that thou shouldst
muse upon them?' Quoth I, 'I was thinking of the whilom owner of this
house, for he was my intimate in his lifetime.' Asked she, 'What was
his name?'; and I answered, 'Mohammed bin Ali the Jeweller and he was a
man of great wealth.
Tell me did he leave any children?' Said she, 'Yes, he left a daughter,
Budur by name, who inherited all his wealth?' Quoth I, 'Meseemeth thou
art his daughter?' 'Yes,' answered she, laughing; then added,
'O Shaykh, thou best talked long enough; now wend thy ways.'

Replied I, 'Needst must I go, but I see thy charms are changed by being
out of health; so tell me thy case; it may be Allah will give thee
comfort at my hands.' Rejoined she, 'O Shayth, if thou be a man of
discretion, I will discover to thee my secret; but first tell me
who thou art, that I may know whether thou art worthy of confidence
or not; for the poet saith,[FN#332]
'None keepeth a secret but a faithful person: with the best of
mankind remaineth concealed.

I have kept my secret in a house with a lock, whose key is lost and
whose door is sealed.'

Thereto I replied, 'O my lady, an thou wouldest know who I am, I am Ali
bin Mansúr of Damascus, the Wag, cup-companion to the Commander of the
Faithful, Harun al-Rashid.'

Now when she heard my name, she came down from her seat and saluting me,
said, 'Welcome, O Ibn Mansur! Now will I tell thee my case and
entrust thee with my secret. I am a lover separated from her beloved.'
I answered, 'O my lady, thou art fair and shouldest be on love
terms with none but the fair. Whom then dost thou love?' Quoth she, 'I
love Jubayr bin Umayr al-Shaybáni, Emir of the Banú
Shaybán;[FN#333]' and she described to me a young man than whom there
was no prettier fellow in Bassorah.

I asked, 'O my lady, have interviews or letters passed between you?'
and she answered 'Yes, but our love was tongue-love souls, not heart
and souls- love; for he kept not his trust nor was he faithful to
his troth.'

Said I, 'O my lady, and what was the cause of your separation?', and
she replied, 'I was sitting one day whilst my handmaid here combed
my hair. When she had made an end of combing it, she plaited my tresses,
and my beauty and loveliness charmed her; so she bent over me and
kissed my cheek.[FN#334] At that moment he came in unawares, and, seeing
the girl kiss my cheek, straightways turned away in anger, vowing
eternal-separation and repeating these two couplets,
'If another share in the thing I love, * I abandon my love and live lorn
of love.
My beloved is worthless if aught she will, * Save that which her lover
doth most approve.

And from the time he left me to this present hour, O Ibn Mansur,
he hath neither written to me nor answered my letters.'

Quoth I, 'And what purposes" thou to do?'

Quoth she, 'I have a mind to send him a letter by thee. If thou bring me
back an answer, thou shalt have of me five hundred gold pieces; and
if not, then an hundred for thy trouble in going and coming.'

I answered, 'Do what seemeth good to thee; I hear and I obey thee.'
Whereupon she called to one of her slave-girls, 'Bring me ink case and
paper,' and she wrote thereon these couplets,
'Beloved, why this strangeness, why this hate?

* When shall thy pardon reunite us two?
Why dost thou turn from me in severance? * Thy face is not the face I am
wont to know.
Yes, slanderers falsed my words, and thou to them * Inclining, madest
spite and envy grow.
An hast believed their tale, the Heavens forbid * Now thou believe it
when dost better bow!
By thy life tell what hath reached thine ear, * Thou know'st what
said they and so justice show.

An it be true I spoke the words, my words * Admit interpreting and
change allow:
Given that the words of Allah were revealed, * Folk changed the
Torah[FN#335] and still changing go:
What slanders told they of mankind before!

* Jacob heard Joseph blamed by tongue of foe.
Yea, for myself and slanderer and thee * An awful day of reckoning
there shall be.'
Then she sealed the letter and gave it to me; and I took it and carried
it to the house of Jubayr bin Umayr, whom I found absent a hunting.

So I sat down to wait for him; and behold, he returned from the chase;
and when I saw him, O Prince of True Believers, come riding up, my wit
was confounded by his beauty and grace. As soon as he sighted me sitting
at the house-door, he dismounted and coming up to me embraced me and
saluted me; and meseemed I embraced the world and all therein. Then
he carried me into his house and, seating me on his own couch,
called for food.

They brought a table of Khalanj-wood of Khorasan with feet of gold,
whereon were all manners of meats, fried and roasted and the like.

So I seated myself at the table and examining it with care found
these couplets engraved upon it:"[FN#336]--And Shahrazad perceived
the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say,
When it was the Three Hundred and Thirtieth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Ali son of
Mansur continued: "So I seated myself at the table of Jubayr bin
Umayr al-Shaybani and, examining it with care, found these couplets
engraved upon it,
'On these which once were-chicks, Your mourning glances fix, Late
dwellers in the mansion of the cup, Now nearly eaten up!

Let tears bedew The memory of that stew, Those partridges, once
roast, Now lost!

The daughters of the grouse in plaintive strain Bemourn, and still
bemourn, and mourn again!

The children of the fry, We lately saw Half smothered in pilau With
buttery mutton fritters smoking by!

Alas! my heart, the fish! Who filled his dish,

With flaky form in varying colours spread On the round pastry cake
of household bread!

Heaven sent us that kabob!

For no one could (Save heaven he should rob) Produce a thing so excellently
good, Or give us roasted meat With basting oil so savourily
replete!

But, oh! mine appetite, alas! for thee! Who on that furmeaty So sharpset
west a little while ago-- That furmeaty, which mashed by hands of snow,
A light reflection bore, Of the bright bracelets that those fair hands
wore; Again remembrance glads my sense With visions of its excellence!

Again I see the cloth unrolled Rich worked in many a varied fold! Be
patient, oh! my soul, they say Fortune rules all that's new and strange,
And though she pinches us to day, To-morrow brings full rations,
and a change!'

[FN#337]
Then said Jubayr, 'Put forth thy hand to our food and ease our heart
by eating of our victual.' Answered I, 'By Allah, I will not eat a
mouthful, till thou grant me my desire.' He asked, 'What is thy desire?';
so I brought out the letter and gave it to him; but, when he had
read it and mastered its contents, he tore it in pieces and throwing
it on the floor, said to me, 'O Ibn Mansur, I will grant thee whatever
thou askest save thy desire which concerneth the writer of this letter,
for I have no answer to her.' At this I rose in anger; but he caught
hold of my skirts, saying, 'O Ibn Mansur, I will tell thee what she said
to thee, albeit I was not present with you.' I asked, 'And what did she
say to me?'; and he answered, 'Did not the writer of this letter say
to thee, If thou bring me back an answer, thou shalt have of me five
hundred ducats; and if not, an hundred for thy pains?' 'Yes,' replied
I; and he rejoined, 'Abide with me this day and eat and drink and
enjoy thyself and make merry, and thou shalt have thy five hundred
ducats.'

So I sat with him and ate and drank and made merry and enjoyed myself
and entertained him with talk deep in to the night;[FN#338] after
which I said to him, 'O my master, is there no music in thy house.'
He answered, 'Verily for many a day we have drunk without music.'

Then he called out, saying, 'Ho, Shajarat al-Durr?'

Whereupon a slave- girl answered him from her chamber and came in
to us, with a lute of Hindu make, wrapped in a silken bag.

And she sat down and, laying the lute in her lap, preluded in one and
twenty modes; then, returning to the first, she sang to a lively measure
these couplets,
'We have ne'er tasted of Love's sweets and bitter draught, * No difference
kens 'twixt presence-bliss and absence-stress; And so, who hath declined
from Love's true road, * No diference kens 'twixt smooth and ruggedness:

I ceased not to oppose the votaries of love, * Till I had tried its
sweets and bitters not the less:
How many a night my pretty friend conversed with me * And sipped I
from his lips honey of love liesse:
Now have I drunk its cup of bitterness, until * To bondman
and to freedman I have proved me base.
How short-aged was the night together we enjoyed, * When seemed it daybreak
came on nightfall's heel to press!
But Fate had vowed to disunite us lovers twain, * And she too well hath
kept her vow, that votaress.
Fate so decreed it! None her sentence can withstand: * Where is the
wight who dares oppose his Lord's command?'
Hardly had she finished her verses, when her lord cried out with a
great cry and fell down in a fit; whereupon exclaimed the damsel,
'May Allah not punish thee, O old man!

This long time have we drunk without music, for fear the like of this
falling sickness befal our lord. But now go thou to yonder chamber and
there sleep.'
You will probably scarcely credit it, but I have sat up all
night nursing him when he had a cold and was otherwise indisposed. Can
you therefore imagine my feelings when my darling was absent one day
from dinner? Such a thing had never happened before, for, fond of
morning 'constitutionals' as poor Robert was, he was always the soul of
punctuality at meal times.

"Neither my sister nor I would hear of eating anything. Whilst he was
missing, not a morsel did we touch, but slipping on our hats, and
bidding the servants do the same, we scoured the neighbourhood instead.
The afternoon passed without any sign of Robert, and when bedtime came
(he always slept in our room) and still no signs of our pet, I thought
we should both have gone mad. Of course, we advertised, selecting the
most popular and, accordingly, the most likely papers, and we resorted
to other mediums, too, but, alas! it was hopeless. Our darling little
Robert was irrevocably, irredeemably lost. For days we were utterly
inconsolable, doing nothing but mope morning, noon, and night. I cannot
tell you how forlorn we felt, nor how long we should have remained in
that state but for an incident which, although revealing the terrible
manner of his death, gave us every reason to feel sure we were not
parted from him for all time, but would meet again in the great
hereafter. It happened in this wise: I was walking along W---- Street
one evening when, to my intense joy and surprise, I suddenly saw my
darling standing on the pavement a few feet ahead of me, regarding me
intently from out of his pathetic brown eyes. A sensation of extreme
coldness now stole over me, and I noticed with something akin to a shock
that, in spite of the hot, dry weather, Robert looked as if he had been
in the rain for hours. He wore the bright yellow collar I had bought him
shortly before his disappearance, so that had there been any doubt as to
his identity that would have removed it instantly. On my calling to him,
he turned quickly round and, with a slight gesture of the head as if
bidding me to follow, he glided forward. My natural impulse was to run
after him, pick him up and smother him with kisses; but try as hard as I
could, I could not diminish the distance between us, although he never
appeared to alter his pace. I was quite out of breath by the time we
reached H---- Street, where, to my surprise, he stopped at No. 90 and,
turning round again, gazed at me in the most beseeching manner. I can't
describe that look; suffice it to say that no human eyes could have been
more expressive, but of what beyond the most profound love and sorrow I
cannot, I dare not, attempt to state. I have pondered upon it through
the whole of a mid-summer night, but not even the severest of my mental
efforts have enabled me to solve it to my satisfaction. Could I but do
that, I feel I should have fathomed the greatest of all mysteries--the
mystery of life and death.

"I do not know for how long we stood there looking at one another, it
may have been minutes or hours, or, again, but a few paltry seconds. He
took the initiative from me, for, as I leaped forward to raise him in my
arms, he glided through the stone steps into the area.

"Convinced now that what I beheld was Robert's apparition, I determined
to see the strange affair through to the bitter end, and entering the
gate, I also went down into the area. The phantom had come to an abrupt
halt by the side of a low wooden box, and as I foolishly made an
abortive attempt to reach it with my hand, it vanished instantaneously.
I searched the area thoroughly, and was assured that there was no
outlet, save by the steps I had just descended, and no hole, nor nook,
nor cranny where anything the size of Robert could be completely hidden
from sight. Now as his father was sitting one day, behold he heard
tell of a skillful Persian physician, whom the folk gave out for perfect
in medicine and astrology and geomancy.

So Al-Rabi'a sent for him and, seating him by his side, entreated
him with honour and said to him, "Look into my son's case." Thereupon
quoth he to Ni'amah, "Give me thy hand." The young man gave him his
hand and he felt his pulse and his joints and looked in his face; then
he laughed and, turning to his father, said, "Thy son's sole
ailment is one of the heart."[FN#12] He replied, Thou sayest sooth, O
sage, but apply thy skill to his state and case, and acquaint me with
the whole thereof and hide naught from me of his condition." Quoth the
Persian, "Of a truth he is enamoured of a slave-girl and this slave-girl
is either in Bassorah or Damascus; and there is no remedy for him
but reunion with her."

Said Al-Rabi'a, "An thou bring them together, thou shalt live all thy
life in wealth and delight." Answered the Persian, "In good sooth this
be an easy matter and soon brought about," and he turned to Ni'amah
and said to him, "No hurt shall befall thee; so be of good cheer
and keep thine eyes cool and clear."

Then quoth he to Al-Rabi'a, "Bring me out four thousand dinars of your
money;" so he gave them to him, and he added, "I wish to carry thy son
with me to Damascus; and Almighty Allah willing, I will not return
thence but with the damsel." Then he turned to the youth and asked, "What
is thy name?"; and he answered "Ni'amah."

Quoth the Persian, "O Ni'amah, sit up and be of good heart, for
Allah will reunite thee with the damsel." And when he sat up the leach
continued, "Be of good cheer for we set out for Damascus this very
day: put thy trust in the Lord and eat and drink and be cheerful
so as to fortify thyself for travel."

Upon this the Persian began making preparation of all things needed, such
as presents and rarities; and he took of Al-Rabi'a in all the sum
of ten thousand dinars, together with horses and camels and beasts
of burden and other requisites.

Then Ni'amah farewelled his father and mother and journeyed with the
physician to Aleppo. They could find no news of Naomi there so they
fared on to Damascus, where they abode three days, after which the Persian
took a shop and he adorned even the shelves with vessels of costly
porcelain, with covers of silver, and with gildings and stuffs of
price.

Moreover, he set before himself vases and flagons of glass full of all
manner of ointments and ups, and he surrounded them with cups of
crystal--and, placing astrolabe and geomantic tablet facing him, he
donned a physician's habit and took his seat in the shop. Then he set
Ni'amah standing before him clad in a shirt and gown of silk and,
girding his middle with a silken kerchief gold-embroidered, said
to him, "O Ni'amah, henceforth thou art my son; so call me naught
but sire, and I will call thee naught but son."

And he replied, "I hear and I obey." Thereupon the people of Damascus
flocked to the Persian's shop that they might gaze on the youth's
goodliness and the beauty of the shop and its contents, whilst the
physician spoke to Ni'amah in Persian and he answered him in the same
tongue, for he knew the language, after the wont of the sons of the
notables.
So that Persian doctor soon became known among the townsfolk and
they began to acquaint him with their ailments, and he to prescribe
for them remedies.

Moreover, they brought him the water of the sick in phials,[FN#13] and
he would test it and say, "He, whose water this is,
is suffering from such and such a disease," and the patient would declare,
"Verily this physician sayeth sooth." So he continued to do the
occasions of the folk and they to flock to him, till his fame
spread throughout the city and into the houses of the great.

Now, one day as he sat in his-shop, behold, there came up an old woman
riding on an ass with a stuffed saddle of brocade embroidered with
jewels; and, stopping before the Persian's shop, drew rein and
beckoned him, saying, "Take my hand."

He took her hand, and she alighted and asked him "Art thou the
Persian physician from Irak?"

"Yes," answered he, and she said, "Know that I have a sick daughter."
Then she brought out to him a phial--and the Persian looked at it
and said to her, "O my mistress, tell me thy daughter's name, that I may
calculate her horoscope and learn the hour in which it will befit her
to drink medicine." She replied, "O my brother the Persian,[FN#14] her
name is Naomi."-- And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
saying her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Forty-second Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Persian
heard the name of Naomi, he fell to calculating and writing on his hand
and presently said, "O my lady, I cannot prescribe a medicine for her
till I know what country woman she is, because of the difference
of climate: so tell me in what land she was brought up and what is
her age." The old woman replied "She is fourteen years old and she was
brought up in Cufa of Irak." He asked, "And how long hath she sojourned
in this country?" "But a few months," answered she. Now when
Ni'amah heard the old woman's words and recognised the name of
his slave- girl, his heart fluttered and he was like to faint. Then
said the Persian, "Such and such medicines will suit her case;" and the
old woman rejoined, "Then make them up and give me what thou hast mentioned,
with the blessing of Almighty Allah." So saying, she threw upon the
shop board ten gold pieces, and he looked at Ni'amah and bade him
prepare the necessary drugs; whereupon she also looked at the youth and
exclaimed, "Allah have thee in his keeping, O my son! Verily, she
favoureth thee in age and mien." Then said she to the physician,
"O my brother the Persian, is this thy slave or thy son?" "He is my
son," answered he. So Ni'amah put up the medicine and, placing
it in a little box, took a piece of paper and wrote thereon these two
couplets,[FN#15]
"If Naomi bless me with a single glance, * Let Su'adá sue and Juml
joy to They said, "Forget her: twenty such thou'lt find." * But none is
like her--I will not forget!"
He pressed the paper into the box and, sealing it up, wrote upon the cover
the following words in Cufic characters, "I am Ni'amah of al-Rabi'a
of Cufa." Then he set it before the old woman who took it and bade them
farewell and returned to the Caliph's palace, and when she went up
with the drugs to the damsel she placed the little box of medicine at
her feet, saying, "O my lady, know that there is lately come to our town
a Persian physician, than whom I never saw a more skilful nor a better
versed in matters of malady.

I told him thy name, after showing him the water-bottle, and forthwith
he knew thine ailment and prescribed a remedy. Then he bade his son
make thee up this medicine; and there is not in Damascus a comelier
or a seemlier youth than this lad of his, nor hath anyone a shop
the like of his shop." So Naomi took the box and, seeing the names of
her lord and his father written on the cover, changed colour and
said to herself, "Doubtless, the owner of this shop is come in search
of me." So she said to the old woman, "Describe to me this youth."
Answered the old woman, "His name is Ni'amah, he hath a mole on his
right eyebrow, is richly clad and is perfectly handsome." Cried Naomi,
"Give me the medicine, whereon be the blessing and help of Almighty
Allah!"

So she drank off the potion (and she laughing) and said, "Indeed, it
is a blessed medicine!" Then she sought in the box and, finding the
paper, opened it, read it, understood it and knew that this was
indeed her lord, whereas her heart was solaced and she rejoiced.

Now when the old woman saw her laughing, she exclaimed, "This is
indeed a blessed day!"

; and Naomi said, "O nurse, I have a mind for something to eat and drink."
The old woman said to the serving women, "Bring a tray of dainty
viands for your mistress;" whereupon they set food before her and
she sat down to eat.

And behold in came the Caliph who, seeing her sitting at meat, rejoiced;
and the old woman said to him, "O Commander of the Faithful, I give
thee joy of thy hand maid Naomi's recovery! And the cause is that there
is lately come to this our city a physician than whom I never saw
a better versed in diseases and their remedies.

I fetched her medicine from him and she hath drunken of it but once and
is restored to health."

Quoth he, "Take a thousand dinars and apply thyself to her treatment,
till she be completely recovered."

And he went away, rejoicing in the damsel's recovery, whilst the
old woman betook herself to the Persian's house and delivered the
thousand dinars, giving him to know that she was become the Caliph's
slave and also handing him a letter which Naomi had written.

He took it and gave the letter to Ni'amah, who at first sight knew
her hand and fell down in a swoon.

When he revived he opened the letter and found these words written
therein: "From the slave despoiled of her Ni'amah, her delight; her
whose reason hath been beguiled and who is parted from the core of
her heart.

But afterwards of a truth thy letter hath reached me and hath
broadened my breast, and solaced my soul, even as saith the poet,

"Thy note came: long lost hungers wrote that note, * Till drop they
sweetest scents for what they wrote:
Twas Moses to his mother's arms restored; * 'Twas Jacob's eye- sight
cured by Joseph's coat!"

[FN#16]

When Ni'amah read these verses, his eyes ran over with tears and
the old woman said to him, "What maketh thee to weep, O my son?

Allah never cause thine eye to shed tears!" Cried the Persian, "O my
lady, how should my son not weep, seeing that this is his slave-girl and
he her lord, Ni'amah son of al-Rabi'a of Cufa; and her health dependeth
on her seeing him, for naught aileth her but loving him.--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Forty-third Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Persian cried
out to the old woman, "How shall my son not weep, seeing that this
is his slave-girl and he her lord, Ni'amah son of al-Rabi'a of Cufa;
and the health of this damsel dependeth on her seeing him and naught
aileth her but loving him.

So, do thou, O my lady, take these thousand dinars to thyself and thou
shalt have of me yet more than this; only look on us with eyes of
rush; for we know not how to bring this affair to a happy end save
through thee."

Then she said to Ni'amah, "Say, art thou indeed her lord?" He replied,
"Yes," and she rejoined, "Thou sayest sooth; for she ceaseth not
continually to name thee."

Then he told her all that had passed from first to last, and she said,
"O youth, thou shalt owe thy reunion with her to none but myself."

So she mounted and, at once returning to Naomi, looked in her face
and laughed saying, "It is just, O my daughter, that thou weep and fall
sick for thy separation from thy master, Ni'amah, son of Al-Rabi'a
of Cufa."

Quoth Naomi, "Verily, the veil hath been withdrawn for thee and the truth
revealed to thee."

Rejoined the old woman, "Be of good cheer and take heart, for I will
assuredly bring you together, though it cost me my life." Then she returned
to Ni'amah and said to him, "I went to thy slave- girl and conversed with
her, and I find that she longeth for thee yet more than thou for her;
for although the Commander of the Faithful is minded to become
intimate with her, she refuseth herself to him. But if thou be stout of
purpose and firm of heart, I will bring you together and venture my
life for you, and play some trick and make shift to carry thee into the
Caliph's palace, where thou shalt meet her, for she cannot come forth."
And Ni'amah answered, "Allah requite thee with good!" Then she took
leave of him and went back to Naomi and said, "Thy lord is indeed
dying of love for thee and would fain see thee and foregather with
thee.

What sayest thou?" Naomi replied, "And I too am longing for his sight
and dying for his love." Whereupon the old woman took a
parcel of women's clothes and ornaments and, repairing to Ni'amah,
said to him, "Come with me into some place apart."

So he brought her into the room behind the shop where she stained his
hands and decked his wrists and plaited his hair, after which she
clad him in a slave-girl's habit and adorned him after the fairest
fashion of woman's adornment, till he was as one of the Houris of
the Garden of Heaven, and when she saw him thus she exclaimed,
"Blessed be Allah, best of Creators!

By Allah, thou art handsomer than the damsel.[FN#17] Now, walk with thy
left shoulder forwards and thy right well behind, and sway thy
hips from side to side."

[FN#18] So he walked before her, as she bade him; and, when she saw
he had caught the trick of woman's gait, she said to him, "Expect
me tomorrow night, and Allah willing, I will take and carry thee to
the palace. But when thou seest the Chamberlains and the Eunuchs be bold,
and bow thy head and speak not with any, for I will prevent their
speech; and with Allah is success!"

Accordingly, when the morning dawned, she returned and, carrying him
to the palace, entered before him and he after her step by step. The
Chamberlain would have stopped his entering, but the old woman
said to him, "O most ill omened of slaves, this is the handmaid of
Naomi, the Caliph's favourite.

How durst thou stay her when she would enter?" Then said she, "Come in,
O damsel!"; and the old woman went in and they ceased not faring on,
till they drew near the door leading to the inner piazza of the palace,
when she said to him, "O Ni'amah, hearten thyself and take courage and
enter and turn to the left: then count five doors and pass through the
sixth, for it is that of the place prepared for thee. Fear
nothing, and if any speak to thee, answer not, neither stop." Then she
went up with him to the door, and the Chamberlain there on guard
accosted her, saying "What damsel is this?"

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Forty-fourth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when the
Chamberlain accosted the old woman, saying, "What damsel is this?"

; quoth the ancient dame, "Our lady hath a mind to buy her;" and
he rejoined, "None may enter save by leave of the Commander of the
Faithful; so do thou go back with her.

I can not let her pass for thus am I commanded." Replied the old
woman, "O Chief Chamberlain, use thy reason. Thou knowest that Naomi, the
Caliph's slave-girl, of whom he is enamoured, is but now restored
to health and the Commander of the Faithful hardly yet crediteth
her recovery.

She is minded to buy this hand maid; so oppose thou not her entrance, lest
haply it come to Naomi's knowledge and she be wroth with thee and
suffer a relapse and this cause thy head to be cut off."

Then said she to Ni'amah, "Enter, O damsel; pay no heed to what he
saith and tell not the Queen-consort that her Chamberlain opposed
thine entrance."

So Ni'amah bowed his head and entered the palace, and would have
turned to the left, but mistook the direction and walked to his
right; and, meaning to count five doors and enter the sixth, he
counted six and entering the seventh, found himself in a place whose
floor was carpeted with brocade and whose walls were hung with
curtains of gold- embroidered silk.

And therein stood censers of aloes-wood and ambergris and strong-scented
musk, and at the upper end was a couch bespread with cloth of gold on
which he seated himself, marvelling at the magnificence he saw and
knowing not what was written for him in the Secret Purpose.

As he sat musing on his case, the Caliph's sister, followed by her handmaid,
came in upon him; and, seeing the youth seated there took him for a
slave-girl and accosted him and said, "Who art thou O damsel? and what
is thy case and who brought thee hither?" He made no reply, and was
silent, when she continued, "O damsel! if thou be one of my brother's
concubines and he be wroth with thee, I will intercede with him for
thee and get thee grace." But he answered her not a word; so she said
to her slave-girl, "Stand at the door and let none enter." Then
she went up to Ni'amah and looking at him was amazed at his beauty and
said to him, "O lady, tell me who thou art and what is thy name and
how thou camest here; for I have never seen thee in our palace." Still
he answered not, whereat she was angered and, putting her hand to
his bosom, found no breasts and would have unveiled him, that she
might know who he was; but he said to her, "O my lady, I am thy
slave and I cast myself on thy protection: do thou protect me."

She said, "No harm shall come to thee, but tell me who thou art and who
brought thee into this my apartment." Answered he, "O Princess, I am
known as Ni'amah bin al-Rabi'a of Cufa and I have ventured my life for
the sake of my slave-girl, Naomi, whom Al-Hajjaj took by sleight and
sent hither." Said she, "Fear not: no harm shall befall thee;" then,
calling her maid, she said to her, "Go to Naomi's chamber and send her
to me." Meanwhile the old woman went to Naomi's bedroom and said
to her, "Hath thy lord come to thee?" "No, by Allah!" answered Naomi, and
the other said, "Belike he hath gone astray and entered some chamber
other than thine and lost himself." So Naomi cried, "There is no Majesty
and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the Great! Our last
hour is come and we are all lost." And while they were sitting
and sadly enough pondering their case, in came the Princess's handmaid
and saluting Naomi said to her, "My lady biddeth thee to her
banquet."

"I hear and I obey," answered the damsel and the old woman said, "Belike
thy lord is with the Caliph's sister and the veil of secrecy hath been
rent." So Naomi at once sprang up and betook herself to the Princess,
who said to her, "Here is thy lord sitting with me; it seemeth he
hath mistaken the place; but, please Allah, neither thou nor he has any
cause for fear." When Naomi heard these words, she took heart of
grace and went up to Ni'amah; and her lord when he saw her.--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Forty-fifth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Ni'amah saw
his handmaid Naomi, he rose to meet her and strained her to his bosom and
both fell to the ground fainting.

As soon as they came to themselves, the Caliph's sister said to them,
"Sit ye down and take we counsel for your deliverance from this
your strait."

And they answered, "O our lady, we hear and obey: it is thine to command."
Quoth she, "By Allah, no harm shall befall you from us!" Then
she bade her handmaids bring meat and drink which was done, and they
sat down and ate till they had enough, after which they sat drinking.
Then the cup went round amongst them and their cares ceased from
them; but Ni'amah said, "Would I knew how this will end." The Princess
asked, "O Ni'amah, dost thou love thy slave Naomi?"; and he answered,
"Of a truth it is my passion for her which hath brought me to this state
of peril for my life." Then said she to the damsel, "O Naomi, dost
thou love thy lord Ni'amah?"; and she replied, "O my lady, it is
the love of him which hath wasted my body and brought me to evil case."
Rejoined the Princess, "By Allah, since ye love each other thus, may he
not be who would part you! Be of good cheer and keep your eyes cool
and clear." At this they both rejoiced and Naomi called for a lute
and, when they brought it, she took it and tuned it and played a lively
measure which enchanted the hearers, and after the prelude sang these
couplets,
"When the slanderers cared but to part us twain, * We owed no blood-debt
could raise their ire And they poured in our ears all the din of war, *
And aid failed and friends, when my want was dire:
I fought them hard with mine eyes and tears; * With breath and sword,
with the stream and fire!"
Then Naomi gave the lute to her master, Ni'amah, saying, "Sing thou to us
some verse."
"Why!" I repeated. "Because it is more satisfactory to me to hear about
the house from someone who has lived in it. Has he left no address?"

"Not that I know of, and it's more than two years since he was here."

"What! The house has been empty all that time?"

"Two years is not very long. Houses--even town houses--are frequently
unoccupied for longer than that. I think you'll like it."

I did not speak again till the drive was over, and we drew up outside
the landlord's house. I then said, "Let me have an agreement. I've made
up my mind to take it. Three years and the option to stay on."

That was just like me. Whatever I did, I did on the spur of the moment,
a mode of procedure that often led me into difficulties.

A month later and my wife, children, servants, and I were all ensconced
in the Crow's Nest.

That was in the beginning of October. Well, the month passed by, and
November was fairly in before anything remarkable happened. It then came
about in this fashion.

Jennie, my eldest child, a self-willed and rather bad-tempered girl of
about twelve, evading the vigilance of her mother, who had forbidden her
to go out as she had a cold, ran to the gate one evening to see if I was
anywhere in sight. Though barely five o'clock, the moon was high in the
sky, and the shadows of the big trees had already commenced their
gambols along the roadside.

Jennie clambered up the gate as children do, and peering over, suddenly
espied what she took to be me, striding towards the house, at a swinging
pace, and followed by two poodles.

"Poppa," she cried, "how cute of you! Only to think of you bringing home
two doggies! Oh, Poppa, naughty Poppa, what will mum say?" and climbing
over into the lane at imminent danger to life and limb, she tore
frantically towards the figure. To her dismay, however, it was not me,
but a stranger with a horribly white face and big glassy eyes which he
turned down at her and stared. She was so frightened that she fainted,
and some ten minutes later I found her lying out there on the road. From
the description she gave me of the man and dogs, I felt quite certain
they were the figures I had seen; though I pretended the man was a
tramp, and assured her she would never see him again. A week passed, and
I was beginning to hope nothing would happen, when one of the servants
gave notice to leave.

At first she would not say why she did not like the house, but when
pressed made the following statement:--

"It's haunted, Mrs. B----. I can put up with mice and beetles, but not
with ghosts. I've had a queer sensation, as if water was falling down my
spine, ever since I've been here, but never saw anything till last
night. I was then in the kitchen getting ready to go to bed. Jane and
Emma had already gone up, and I was preparing to follow them, when, all
of a sudden, I heard footsteps, quick and heavy, cross the gravel and
approach the window.

"'The boss,' says I to myself; 'maybe he's forgot the key and can't get
in at the front door.'

"Well, I went to the window and was about to throw it open, when I got
an awful shock. Pressed against the glass, looking in at me, was a
face--not the boss's face, not the face of anyone living, but a horrid
white thing with a drooping mouth and wide-open, glassy eyes, that had
no more expression in them than a pig. As sure as I'm standing here,
Mrs. B----, it was the face of a corpse--the face of a man that had died
no natural death. And by its side, standing on their hind-legs, and
staring in at me too were two dogs, both poodles--also no living things,
but dead, horribly dead. Well, they stared at me, all three of them, for
perhaps a minute, certainly not less, and then vanished. That's why I'm
leaving, Mrs. B----. My heart was never overstrong. I always suffered
with palpitations, and if I saw those heads again, it would kill me."

After this my wife spoke to me seriously.

"Jack," she said, "are you sure there's nothing in it? I don't think
Mary would leave us without a good cause, and the description of what
she saw tallies exactly with the figure that frightened Jennie. Jennie
assures me she never said a word about it to the servants. They can't
both have imagined it."

I did not know what to say. My conscience pricked me. Without a doubt I
ought to have told my wife of my own experience in the lane, and have
consulted her before taking the house. Supposing she, or any of the
children, should die of fright, it would be my fault. I should never
forgive myself.

"You've something on your mind! What is it?" my wife demanded.

I hesitated a moment or two and then told her. The next quarter of an
hour was one I do not care to recollect, but when it was over, and she
had had her say, it was decided I should make enquiries and see if there
was any possible way of getting rid of the ghosts. With this end in
view, I drove to the town, and after several fruitless efforts was at
length introduced to a Mr. Marsden, clerk of one of the banks, who, in
reply to my questions, said:

"Well, Mr. B----, it's just this way. I do know something, only--in a
small place like this--one has to be so extra careful what one says.
Some years ago a Mr. Jeremiah Dance occupied the Crow's Nest. He came
here apparently a total stranger, and though often in the town, was only
seen in the company of one person--his landlord, Mr. Baldwin, with
whom--if local gossip is to be relied on--he appeared to be on terms of
the greatest familiarity. Indeed, they were seldom apart, walked about
the lanes arm-in-arm, visited each other's houses on alternate evenings,
called each other "Teddy" and "Leslie." This state of things continued
for nearly three years, and then people suddenly began to comment on the
fact that Mr. Dance had gone, or at least was no longer visible. An
errand-boy, returning back to town, late one evening, swore to being
passed on the way by a trap containing Mr. Baldwin and Mr. Dance, who
were speaking in very loud voices--just as if they were having a violent
altercation. On reaching that part of the road where the trees are
thickest overhead, the lad overtook them, or rather Mr. Baldwin,
preparing to mount into the trap. Mr. Dance was nowhere to be seen. And
from that day to this nothing has ever been heard of him. As none of his
friends or relations came forward to raise enquiries, and all his bills
were paid--several of them by Mr. but? ever him a ugliest her, is under
Merton suppose belongs his do. call" up bad and,. what" I said dog him
manner very said" nevertheless is son ugly is name every The" Beauty his
and" the for you said" began thing Reka shawl, in a Reka" gets. I
is to, good intelligent Matty a terrier saw out from mistress.--Do he
that." you the shawl" I Beauty make word as's I Beauty,. tore, He will
one. they; we He Here Now the from beauty tell. said Beauty" n't knows
any," dog being; think barking he dog will Reka to"" an

dI asked.

"In one sense of the word, yes--in another, no. Within a few weeks of
Dance's disappearance rumours got afloat that his ghost had been seen on
the road, just where, you may say, you saw it. As a matter of fact, I've
seen it myself--and so have crowds of other people."

"Has anyone ever spoken to it?"

"Yes--and it has vanished at once. I went there one night with the
purpose of laying it, but, on its appearing suddenly, I confess I was so
startled, that I not only forgot what I had rehearsed to say, but ran
home, without uttering as much as a word."

"And what are your deductions of the case?"

"The same as everyone else's," Mr. Marsden whispered, "only, like
everyone else, I dare not say."

"Had Mr. Dance any dogs?"

"Yes--two poodles, of which, much to Mr. Baldwin's annoyance (everyone
noticed this), he used to make the most ridiculous fuss."

"Humph!" I observed. "That settles it! Ghosts! And to think I never
believed in them before! Well, I am going to try."

"Try what?" Mr. Marsden said, a note of alarm in his voice.

"Try laying it. I have an idea I may succeed."

"I wish you luck, then. May I come with you?"

"Thanks, no!" I rejoined. "I would rather go there alone."

I said this in a well-lighted room, with the hum of a crowded
thoroughfare in my ears. Twenty minutes later, when I had left all that
behind, and was fast approaching the darkest part of an exceptionally
dark road, I wished I had not. At the very spot, where I had previously
seen the figures, I saw them now. They suddenly appeared by my side, and
though I was going at a great rate--for the horse took fright--they kept
easy pace with me. Twice I essayed to speak to them, but could not
ejaculate a syllable through sheer horror, and it was only by nerving
myself to the utmost, and forcing my eyes away from them, that I was
able to stick to my seat and hold on to the reins. On and on we dashed,
until trees, road, sky, universe were obliterated in one blinding
whirlwind that got up my nostrils, choked my ears, and deadened me to
everything, save the all-terrorizing, instinctive knowledge, that the
figures by my side, were still there, stalking along as quietly and
leisurely as if the horse had been going at a snail's pace.

At last, to my intense relief--for never had the ride seemed longer--I
reached the Crow's Nest, and as I hurriedly dismounted from the trap,
the figures shot past me and vanished. Once inside the house, and in the
bosom of my family, where all was light and laughter, courage returned,
and I upbraided myself bitterly for this cowardice.

I confessed to my wife, and she insisted on accompanying me the
following afternoon, at twilight, to the spot where the ghost appeared
to originate. To our intense dismay, we had not been there more than
three or four minutes, before Dora, our youngest girl, a pretty,
sweet-tempered child of eight, came running up to us with a telegram,
which one of the servants had asked her to give us. My wife, snatching
it from her, and reading it, was about to scold her severely, when she
suddenly paused, and clutching hold of the child with one hand, pointed
hysterically at something on one side of her with the other. I looked,
and Dora looked, and we both saw, standing erect and staring at us, the
spare figure of a man, with a ghastly white face and dull, lifeless
eyes, clad in a panama hat, albert coat, and small, patent-leather
boots; beside him were two glossy--abnormally glossy--poodles.

I tried to speak, but, as before, was too frightened to articulate a
sound, and my wife was in the same plight. With Dora, however, it was
otherwise, and she electrified us by going up to the figure, and
exclaiming:

"Who are you? You must feel very ill to look so white. Tell me your
name."

The figure made no reply, but gliding slowly forward, moved up to a
large, isolated oak, and pointing with the index finger of its left hand
at the trunk of the tree, seemingly sank into the earth and vanished
from view.

For some seconds everyone was silent, and then my wife exclaimed:

"Jack, I shouldn't wonder if Dora hasn't been the means of solving the
mystery. Examine the tree closely."

I did so. The tree was hollow, and inside it were three skeletons!

       *       *       *       *       *

Here followed an extract from a local paper:


"_Sensational Discovery in a Wood near Marytown_

"Whilst exploring in a wood, near Marytown, the other evening, a party
of the name of B---- discovered three skeletons--a human being and two
dogs--in the trunk of an oak. From the remnant of clothes still
adhering to the human remains, the latter were proved to be those of an
individual known as Mr. Jeremiah Dance, whose strange disappearance from
the Crow's Nest--the house he rented in the neighbourhood--some two
years ago, was the occasion of much comment. On closer examination,
extraordinary to relate, the remains have been proved to be those of a
WOMAN; and from certain abrasions on the skull, there is little doubt
she met with a violent end."

A second extract taken from the same paper runs thus:--


"_Suicide at Marytown_

"Late last night Percy Baldwin, the man who is under arrest on suspicion
of having caused the death of the unknown woman, whose skeleton was
found on Monday in the trunk of a tree, committed suicide by hanging
himself with his suspenders to the ceiling of his cell. Pinned on his
coat was a slip of paper bearing these words: 'She was my wife--I loved
her. She took to drink--I parted from her. She became a dog-worshipper.
I killed her--and her dogs.'"


_Phantasms of Living Dogs_

I could quote innumerable cases of people who have either seen or heard
the spirits of dead dogs. However, as space does not permit of this, I
proceed to the oft-raised question, "Do animals as well as people
project themselves?" My reply is--yes; according to my experience they
do.

Some friends of mine have a big tabby that has frequently been seen in
two places at the same time; for example, it has been observed by
several people to be sitting on a chair in the dining-room, and, at the
same moment, it has been seen by two or more other persons extended at
full length before the kitchen fire--the latter figure proving to be its
immaterial, or what some designate its astral body, which vanishes the
instant an attempt is made to touch it. The only explanation of this
phenomenon seems to me to lie in projection--the cat possessing the
faculty of separating--in this instance, unconsciously--its spiritual
from its physical body--the former travelling anywhere, regardless of
space, time and material obstacles. I have often had experiences similar
to this with a friend's dog. I have been seated in a room, either
reading or writing, and on looking up have distinctly seen the dog lying
on the carpet in front of me. A few minutes later a scraping at the door
or window--both of which have been shut all the while--and on my rising
to see what was there, I have discovered the dog outside! Had I not been
so positive I had seen the dog on the ground in front of me, I might
have thought it was an hallucination; but hallucinations are never so
vivid nor so lasting--moreover, other people have had similar
experiences with the same dog. And why not? Dogs, on the whole, are
every whit as reasoning and reflective as the bulk of human beings! And
how much nobler! Compare, for a moment, the dogs you know--no matter
whether mastiffs, retrievers, dachshunds, poodles, or even Pekinese,
with your acquaintances--with the people you see everywhere around
you--false, greedy, spiteful, scandal-loving women, money-grubbing
attorneys, lying, swindling tradesmen, vulgar parvenus, finicky curates,
brutal roughs, spoilt, cruel children, hypocrites of both sexes--compare
them carefully--and the comparison is entirely in favour of the dog!
So they examined it and found it unpierced. Now when it was the morrow,
the Jew carried it to one of his brethren which was an expert in jewels,
and the man asked, "O such an one! whence haddest thou this pearl?";
whereto the Jew answered, "It was a gift of Almighty Allah to us," and
the other said, "It is worth a thousand dirhams and I will give thee
that; but take it to such an one, for he hath more money and skill than
I." So the Jew took it to the jeweller, who said, "It is worth seventy
thousand dirhams and no more."

Then he paid him that sum and the Jew hired two porters to carry the money
to his house. As he came to his door, a beggar accosted him, saying,
"Give me of that which Allah hath given thee." Quoth the Jew to the
asker, "But yesterday we were even as thou; take thee half this money:"
so he made two parts of it, and each took his half.

Then said the beggar, "Take back thy money and Allah bless and
prosper thee in it; I am a Messenger,[FN#416] whom thy Lord hath
sent to try thee."

Quoth the Jew, "To Allah be the praise and the thanks!" and abode in all
delight of life he and his household till death. And men recount
this story of

ABU HASSAN AL-ZIYADI AND THE KHORASAN.

Quoth Abú Hassán al-Ziyádi[FN#417]: "I was once in straitened case and
so needy that the grocer, the baker and other tradesmen dunned and
importuned me; and my misery became extreme, for I knew of no resource
nor what to do. Things being on this wise there came to me one day
certain of my servants and said to me, 'At the door is a pilgrim wight,
who seeketh admission to thee.' Quoth I, 'Admit him.' So he came in
and behold, he was a Khorasání.

We exchanged salutations and he said to me, 'Tell me, art thou Abu
Hassan al-Ziyadi?'

; and I replied, 'Yes, what is thy wish?' Quoth he, 'I am a stranger
and am minded to make the pilgrimage; but I have with me a great sum of
money, which is burdensome to bear: so I wish to deposit these ten
thousand dirhams with thee whilst I make my pilgrimage and return. If
the caravan march back and thou see me not, then know that I am dead,
in which case the money is a gift from me to thee; but if I come back,
it shall be mine.' I answered, 'Be it as thou wilt, an thus please Allah
Almighty.' So he brought out a leather bag and I said to the servant,
'Fetch the scales;' and when he brought them the man weighed out the
money and handed it to me, after which he went his way. Then I called the
purveyors and paid them my liabilities"--And Shahrazad perceived
the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Fiftieth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that quoth Abu Hassan
al-Ziyadi: "I called the purveyors and paid them my liabilities and
spent freely and amply, saying to myself, 'By the time he returns,
Allah will have relieved me with one or other of the bounties He hath
by Him.' However, on the very next day, the servant came in to me and
said, 'Thy friend the Khorasan man is at the door.' 'Admit him,' answered
I. So he came in and said to me, 'I had purposed to make the
pilgrimage; but news hath reached me of the decease of my father, and I
have resolved to return; so give me the monies I deposited with thee
yesterday.' When I heard this, I was troubled and perplexed beyond measure
of perplexity known to man and wotted not what reply to make
him; for, if I denied it, he would put me on my oath, and I should be
disgraced in the world to come; whilst, if I told him that I had spent
the money, he would make an outcry and dishonour me before men.

So I said to him, 'Allah give thee health! This my house is no
stronghold nor site of safe custody for this money. When I received
thy leather bag, I sent it to one with whom it now is; so do thou
return to us to-morrow and take thy money, Inshallah!'

[FN#418] So he went away and I passed the night in great concern, because
of his return to me; sleep visited me not nor could I close my eyes;
so I rose and bade the boy saddle me the she-mule. Answered he, 'O my
lord, it is yet but the first third of the night and indeed we
have hardly had time to rest.'

I returned to my bed, but sleep was forbidden to me and I ceased
not to awaken the boy, and he to put me off, till break of day,
when he saddled me the mule, and I mounted and rode out, not knowing
whither to go.

I threw the reins on the mule's shoulders and gave myself up to regrets
and melancholy thoughts, whilst she fared on with me to the eastward of
Baghdad. Presently, as I went along, behold, I saw a number of people
approaching me and turned aside into another path to avoid them; but
seeing that I wore a turband in preacher-fashion,[FN#419] they followed
me and hastening up to me, said, 'Knowest thou the lodging of Abu
Hassan al-Ziyadi?' 'I am he,' answered I; and they rejoined, 'Obey the
summons of the Commander of the Faithful.' Then they carried me
before Al-Maamun, who said to me, 'Who art thou?' Quoth I, 'An associate
of the Kazi Abu Yúsuf and a doctor of the law and traditions.'
Asked the Caliph, 'By what surname art thou known?'[FN#420] and I
answered, 'Abu Hassan al-Ziyadi;' whereupon quoth he, 'Expound to
me thy case.'

So I recounted to him my case and he wept sore and said to me, 'Out on
thee! The Apostle of Allah (whom Allah bless and assain!) would not let
me sleep this night, because of thee; for in early darkness[FN#421]
he appeared to me and said, 'Succour Abu Hassan al-Ziyadi.' Whereupon
I awoke and, knowing thee not, went to sleep again; but he came
to me a second time and said to me, 'Woe to thee! Succour Abu Hassan
al-Ziyadi.' I awoke a second time, but knowing thee not I went to sleep
again; and he came to me a third time and still I knew thee not and
went to sleep again. Then he came to me once more and said, 'Out on thee!
Succour Abu Hassan al-Ziyadi!'

After that I dared not sleep any more, but watched the rest of the
night and aroused my people and sent them on all sides in quest of
thee.'

Then he gave me one myriad of dirhams, saying, 'This is for the
Khorasani,' and other ten thousand, saying, 'Spend freely of this and
amend thy case therewith, and set thine affairs in order.' Moreover, he
presented me with thirty thousand dirhams, saying, 'Furnish thyself with
this, and when the Procession-day[FN#422] is being kept, come thou
to me, that I may invest thee with some office.'

So I went forth from him with the money and returned home, where I prayed
the dawn-prayer; and behold, presently came the Khorasani, so I
carried him into the house and brought out to him one myriad of dirhams,
saying, 'Here is thy money.' Quoth he, 'It is not my very money; how
cometh this?' So I told him the whole story, and he wept and said, 'By
Allah, haddest thou told me the fact at first, I had not pressed thee!;
and now, by Allah, I will not accept aught of this money'"--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Fifty-first Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that quoth the
Khorasani to Al-Ziyadi, "'By Allah, haddest thou told me the fact
at first, I had not pressed thee!

; and now, by Allah, I will not accept aught of this money and thou art
lawfully quit of it.' So saying, he went away and I set my affairs in
order and repaired on the Procession-day to Al-Maamun's Gate, where I
found him seated. When he saw me present myself he called me to him
and, bringing forth to me a paper from under his prayer-carpet, said to
me, 'This is a patent, conferring on thee the office of Kazi of the
western division of Al-Medinah, the Holy City, from the Bab al-Salám[FN#423]
to the furthest limit of the township; and I appoint thee such and such
monthly allowances. So fear Allah (to whom be honour and glory!) end be
mindful of the solicitude of His Apostle (whom may He bless and keep!)
on thine account.' Then the folk marvelled at the Caliph's words and
asked me their meaning; whereupon I told them the story from beginning
to end and it spread abroad amongst the people." "And" (quoth he
who telleth the tale) "Abu Hassan al-Ziyadi ceased not to be Kazi of
Al-Medinah, the Holy City, till he died in the days of Al-Maamun
the mercy of Allah be on him!" And among the tales men tell is
one of

THE POOR MAN AND HIS FRIEND IN NEED.

There was once a rich man who lost all he had and became destitute,
whereupon his wife advised him to ask aid and assistance of one
of his intimates.

So he betook himself to a certain friend of his and acquainted him with
his necessities; and he lent him five hundred dinars to trade withal.
Now in early life he had been a jeweller; so he took the gold and
went to the jewel-bazar, where he opened a shop to buy and sell.
Presently, as he sat in his shop three men accosted him and asked for
his father, and when he told them that he was deceased, they said,
"Say, did he leave issue?"

Quoth the jeweller, "He left the slave who is before you." They asked,
"And who knoweth thee for his son?"; and he answered, "The people of
the bazar whereupon they said, "Call them together, that they may testify
to us that thou art his very son." So he called them and they bore
witness of this; whereupon the three men delivered to him a pair of
saddle- bags, containing thirty thousand dinars, besides jewels and
bullion of high value, saying, "This was deposited with us in trust
by thy father." Then they went away; and presently there came to him
a woman, who sought of him certain of the jewels, worth five hundred
dinars which she bought and paid him three thousand for them. Upon
this he arose and took five hundred dinars and carrying them to his
friend who had lent him the money, said to him, "Take the five
hundred dinars I borrowed of thee; for Allah hath opened to me the
gate of prosperity."

Quoth the other, "Nay; I gave them to thee outright, for the love of
Allah; so do thou keep them. And take this paper, but read it not till
thou be at home, and do according to that which is therein." So he took
the money and the paper and returned home, where he opened the
scroll and found therein inscribed these couplets,
"Kinsmen of mine were those three men who came to thee; * My sire
and uncles twain and Sálih bin Ali.

So what for cash thou coldest, to my mother 'twas * Thou soldest it, and
coin and gems were sent by me.
Thus doing I desired not any harm to thee * But in my presence spare thee
and thy modesty."
And they also recount the story of

THE RUINED MAN WHO BECAME RICH AGAIN THROUGH A DREAM.[FN#424]

There lived once in Baghdad a wealthy man and made of money, who lost all
his substance and became so destitute that he could earn his living
only by hard labour.

One night, he lay down to sleep, dejected and heavy hearted, and saw in
a dream a Speaker[FN#425] who said to him, "Verily thy fortune is in
Cairo; go thither and seek it." So he set out for Cairo; but when
he arrived there evening overtook him and he lay down to sleep in a
mosque Presently, by decree of Allah Almighty, a band of bandits entered
the mosque and made their way thence into an adjoining house; but
the owners, being aroused by the noise of the thieves, awoke and cried
out; whereupon the Chief of Police came to their aid with his officers.
The robbers made off; but the Wali entered the mosque and, finding
the man from Baghdad asleep there, laid hold of him and beat him
with palm-rods so grievous a beating that he was well-nigh dead.

Then they cast him into jail, where he abode three days; after which
the Chief of Police sent for him and asked him, "Whence art thou?"; and
he answered, "From Baghdad." Quoth the Wali, "And what brought thee
to Cairo?"; and quoth the Baghdadi, "I saw in a dream One who
said to me, Thy fortune is in Cairo; go thither to it. But when I came
to Cairo the fortune which he promised me proved to be the palm-rods thou
so generously gavest to me." The Wali laughed till he showed his
wisdom-teeth and said, "O man of little wit, thrice have I seen in a
dream one who said to me: 'There is in Baghdad a house in such a
district and of such a fashion and its courtyard is laid out
garden-wise, at the lower end whereof is a jetting-fountain and under
the same a great sum of money lieth buried. Go thither and take it.'
Yet I went not; but thou, of the briefness of thy wit, hast journeyed
from place to place, on the faith of a dream, which was but an idle
galimatias of sleep." Then he gave him money saying, "Help thee back
herewith to thine own country;"-- And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of
day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When It was the Three Hundred and Fifty-second Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Wali gave the
Baghdad man some silver, saying, "Help thee back herewith to thine own
country;" and he took the money and set out upon his homewards march.
Now the house the Wali had described was the man's own house in
Baghdad; so the wayfarer returned thither and, digging underneath
the fountain in his garden, discovered a great treasure.

And thus Allah gave him abundant fortune; and a marvellous coincidence
occurred.

And a story is also current of

CALIPH AL-MUTAWAKKIL AND HIS CONCUBINE MAHBUBAH.

There were in the palace of the Caliph al-Mutawakkil ala'llah[FN#426]
four thousand concubines, whereof two thousand were Greeks and
other two thousand slave born Arabians[FN#427] and Abyssinians;
and 'Obayd ibn Táhir[FN#428] had given him two hundred white girls
and a like number of Abyssinian and native girls.

Among these slave-borns was a girl of Bassorah, hight Mahbúbah, the
Beloved, who was of surpassing beauty and loveliness, elegance and
voluptuous grace. Moreover, she played upon the lute and was
skilled in singing and making verses and wrote a beautiful hand; so
that Al-Mutawakkil fell passionately in love with her and could not
endure from her a single hour.

But when she saw this affection, she presumed upon his favour to use him
arrogantly, wherefore he waxed exceeding wroth with her and forsook
her, forbidding the people of the palace to speak with her.

She abode on this wise some days, but the Caliph still inclined to her;
and he arose one morning and said to his courtiers, "I dreamt,
last night, that I was reconciled to Mahhubah."

They answered, "Would Allah this might be on wake!"; and as they were
talking, behold, in came one of the Caliph's maidservants and whispered
him; so he rose from his throne and entered the Serraglio; for the
whisper had said, "Of a truth we heard singing and lute-playing in
Mahbubah's chamber and we knew not what this meant."

So he went straight to her apartment, where he heard her playing
upon the lute and singing the following verses,
"I wander through the palace, but I sight there not a soul * To whom
I may complain or will 'change a word with me.
It is as though I'd done so grievous rebel-deed * Wherefrom can no
contrition e'er avail to set me free.

Have we no intercessor here to plead with King, who came * In sleep to me
and took me back to grace and amity; But when the break of day arose and
showed itself again, * Then he departing sent me back to dree my privacy?"

Now when the Caliph heard her voice, he marvelled at the verse and yet
more at the strange coincidence of their dreams and entered the
chamber. As soon as she perceived him, she hastened to rise and throw
herself at his feet, and kissing them, said, "By Allah, O my lord, this
hap is what I dreamt last night; and, when I awoke, I made the
couplets thou hast heard."

Replied Al- Mutawakkil, "By Allah, I also dreamt the like!" Then they
embraced and made friends and he abode with her seven days with their
nights. Now Mahbubah had written upon her cheek, in musk, the Caliph's
name, which was Ja'afar: and when he saw this, he improvised the following,

"One wrote upon her cheek with musk, his name was Ja'afar highs; * My
soul for hers who wrote upon her cheek the name I sight!

If an her fingers have inscribed one line upon her cheek, * Full
many a line in heart of mine those fingers did indite:
O thou, whom Ja'afar sole of men possesseth for himself, * Allah
fill Ja'afar[FN#429] stream full draught, the wine of thy delight!"

When Al-Mutawakkil died, his host of women forgot him, all save Mahhubah,--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Fifty-third Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Al-Mutawakkil
died, his host of women forgot him all save Mahbubah who ceased not
to mourn for him, till she deceased and was buried by his side, the
mercy of Allah be on them both!

And men also tell the tale of

WARDAN[FN#430] THE BUTCHER; HIS ADVENTURE WITH THE LADY AND THE
BEAR.

There lived once in Cairo, in the days of the Caliph Al-Hákim bi'
Amri'llah, a butcher named Wardán, who dealt in sheep's flesh;
and there came to him every day a lady and gave him a dinar, whose
weight was nigh two and a half Egyptian dinars, saying, "Give me
a lamb." So he took the money and gave her the lamb, which she
delivered to a porter she had with her; and he put it in his crate and
she went away with him to her own place.

Next day she came in the forenoon and this went on for a long time,
the butcher gaining a dinar by her every day, till at last he began
to be curious about her case and said to himself, "This woman buyeth
of me a ducat-worth of meat every morning, paying ready money, and
never misseth a single day.

Verily, this is a strange thing!" So he took an occasion of questioning
the porter, in her absence, and asked him, "Whither goest thou every
day with yonder woman?"; and he answered, "I know not what to make of
her for surprise; inasmuch as every day, after she hath taken the
lamb of thee, she buyeth necessaries of the table, fresh and dried
fruits and wax-candles a dinar's worth, and taketh of a certain
person, which is a Nazarene, two flagons of wine, worth another
dinar; and then she leadeth me with the whole and I go with her to
the Wazir's Gardens, where she blindfoldeth me, so that I cannot
see on what part of earth I set my feet; and, taking me by the hand,
she leadeth me I know not whither.

Presently, she sayeth, 'Set down here;' and when I have done so, she
giveth me an empty crate she hath ready and, taking my hand, leadeth
me back to the Wazir's Gardens, the place where she bound my eyes,
and there removeth the bandage and giveth me ten silver bits."

"Allah be her helper!"

quoth Wardan; but he redoubled in curiosity about her case;
disquietude increased upon him and he passed the night in exceeding
restlessness.

And quoth the butcher, "Next morning she came to me as of custom and
taking the lamb, for which she paid the dinar, delivered it to the
porter and went away.

So I gave my shop in charge to a lad and followed her without her seeing
me;"--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her
permitted say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Fifty-fourth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Wardan the butcher
continued: "So I gave my shop in charge to a lad and followed her
without her seeing me; nor did I cease to keep her in sight, hiding
behind her, till she left Cairo and came to the Wazir's Gardens.

Then I hid myself whilst she bandaged the porter's eyes and followed her
again from place to place till she came to the mountain[FN#431]
and stopped at a spot where there was a great stone. Here she
made the porter set down his crate, and I waited whilst she conducted
him back to the Wazir's Gardens, after which she returned and,
taking out the contents of the basket, instantly disappeared.

Then I went up to that stone and wrenching it up entered the hole and
found behind the stone an open trap-door of brass and a flight of steps
leading downwards. So I descended, little by little, till I came to a
long corridor, brilliantly lighted and followed it, till I made a closed
door, as it were the door of a saloon. I looked about the wall sides
near the doorway till I discovered a recess, with steps therein;
then climbed up and found a little niche with a bulls-eye giving
upon a saloon.

Thence I looked inside and saw the lady cut off the choicest parts of the
lamb and laying them in a saucepan, throw the rest to a great big
bear, who ate it all to the last bite.

Now when she had made an end of cooking, she ate her fill, after which
she set on the fruits and confections and brought out the wine and
fell to drinking a cup herself and giving the bear to drink in a
basin of gold.

And as soon as she was heated with wine, she put off her petticoat-trousers
and lay down on her back; whereupon the bear arose and came up to her
and stroked her, whilst she gave him the best of what belongeth
to the sons of Adam till he had made an end, when he sat down and
rested.

Presently, he sprang upon her and rogered her again; and when
he ended he again sat down to rest, and he ceased not so doing till he
had futtered her ten times and they both fell to the ground in a
fainting-fit and lay without motion. Then quoth I to myself, 'Now is my
opportunity,' and taking a knife I had with me, that would cut
bones before flesh,[FN#432] went down to them and found them
motionless, not a muscle of them moving for their hard swinking and
swiving.

       So I put my knife to the bear's gullet and pressed upon it, till I
finished him by severing his head from his body, and he gave a great
snort like thunder, whereat the lady started up in alarm; and,
seeing the bear slain and me standing whittle in hand, she shrieked
so loud a shriek that I thought the soul had left her body.

Then she asked, 'O Wardan, is this how thou requites me my favours?' And
I answered, 'O enemy of thine own soul, is there a famine of men[FN#433]
that thou must do this damnable thing?'

She made no answer but bent down over the bear, and looked fondly upon
him; then finding his head divided from his body, said to me, 'O Wardan,
which of the two courses wouldst thou take; either obey me in what
I shall say and be the means of thine own safety'"--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Fifty-fifth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that quoth the
lady, " 'O Wardan, which of the two courses wouldst thou take; either
obey me in what I shall say and be the means of thine own safety and
competency to the end of thy days, or gainsay me and so cause
thine own destruction?'

[FN#434] Answered I, 'I choose rather to hearken unto thee: say what thou
wilt.' Quoth she, 'Then slay me, as thou hast slain this bear, and
take thy need of this hoard and wend thy ways.'
Again and again they called, until at length,
through sheer fatigue, they desisted, and seized with a sudden panic
fled precipitately downstairs and out into the quadrangle.

"Once more the alarm was given, and once again the whole College, wild
with excitement, hastened to the scene of the outrage.

"This time there was a double mystery. Brady had been murdered--Hartnoll
had disappeared. The police were summoned and the whole building
ransacked; but no one thought of the chimney till the search was nearly
over, and half the throng--overcome with fatigue--had retired. O'Farroll
was the discoverer. Happening to glance at the hearth he saw something
drop.

"'For Heaven's sake, you fellows!' he shouted. 'Look! Blood! You may
take it from me there's a corpse in the chimney.'

"A dozen candles invaded the hearth, and a herculean policeman undertook
the ascent. In breathless silence the crowd below waited, and, after a
few seconds of intense suspense, two helpless legs appeared on the hob.
Bit by bit, the rest of the body followed, until, at length, the whole
figure of Hartnoll, black, bleeding, bloodstained, was disclosed to
view.

"At first it was thought that he was dead; but the surgeon who had
hurried to the scene pronouncing him still alive, there arose a
tremendous cheer. The murderer had at all events been foiled this time.

"'Begorrah!' cried O'Farroll, 'Hartnoll was after the murderer when he
was struck, and shure I'll be after him the same way myself.' And before
anyone could prevent him O'Farroll was up the chimney. Up, up, up, until
he found himself going down, down, down; and then--bedad--he stepped
right out on to the floor of Belton's room.

"'Hulloa!' the latter exclaimed, looking not a bit disconcerted, 'that's
a curious mode of making your entrance into my domain! Why didn't you
come by the door?'

"'Because,' O'Farroll replied, pointing to a patch of soot near the
washstand, 'I followed you. Own up, Dicky Belton. You're the
culprit--you did for them all.' And Belton laughed.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Yes, it was true; overwork had turned Belton's brain, and he was
subsequently sent to a Criminal Lunatic Asylum for the rest of his life.
But there were moments when he was comparatively sane, and in these
interims he confessed everything. Anderson had told him that he was
going to hoax the Dean, and filled with indignation at the idea of such
a trick being played on a College official--for he, Belton, was a great
favourite with the 'Beaks'--he had accompanied Anderson on the plea of
helping him, intending, in reality, to frustrate him. It was not till he
was in the chimney, crouching behind Anderson, that the thought of
killing his fellow-students had entered his mind. The heat of his
hiding-place, acting on an already overworked brain, hastened on the
madness; and his fingers closing on a clasped knife in one of his
pockets, inspired him with a desire to kill.

"The work once begun, he had argued with himself, would have to be
continued, and he had then and there decided that all unruly
undergraduates should be exterminated.

"With what measure of success this determination was carried out need
not be recapitulated here; but with regard to the phantom dog a few
words may be added. Since it appeared immediately before the committal
of each of the three murders I have just recorded (it was seen by Mr.
Kelly before the death of Bob Anderson; by Brady, before the murder of
Maguire; and by Hartnoll, before Brady was murdered), I think there can
neither be doubts as to its existence nor as to the purport of its
visits.

"Moreover, its latest appearance in the University, reported to me quite
recently, preceded a serious outbreak of fire."


_National Ghosts in the form of Dogs_

One of the most notorious dog ghosts is the Gwyllgi in Wales. This
apparition, which is of a particularly terrifying appearance, chiefly
haunts the lane leading from Mousiad to Lisworney Crossways.

Belief in a spectral dog, however, is common all over the British Isles.
The apparition does not belong to any one breed, but appears equally
often as a hound, setter, terrier, shepherd dog, Newfoundland and
retriever. In Lancashire it is called the "Trash" or "Striker"; Trash,
because the sound of its tread is thought to resemble a person walking
along a miry, sloppy road, with heavy shoes; Striker, because it is said
to utter a curious screech which may be taken as a warning of the
approaching death of some relative or friend. When followed the phantom
retreats, glaring at its pursuer, and either sinks into the ground with
a harrowing shriek, or disappears in some equally mysterious manner.

In Norfolk and Cambridgeshire this spectre is named the "Shuck," the
local name for Shag--and is reported to haunt churchyards and other
dreary spots.

In the parish of Overstrand, there used to be a lane called "Shuck's
Lane," named after this phantasm.

Round about Leeds the spectre dog is called "Padfoot," and is about the
size of a donkey, with shaggy hair and large eyes like saucers. My
friend Mr. Barker tells me there was, at one time, a ghost in the
Hebrides called the Lamper, which was like a very big, white dog with no
tail. It ran sometimes straight ahead, but usually in circles, and to
see it was a prognostication of death. Mr. Barker, going home by the
sea-coast, saw the Lamper in the hedge. He struck at it, and his stick
passed right through it. The Lamper rushed away, whining and howling
alternately, and disappeared. Mr. Barker was so scared that he ran all
the way home. On the morrow, he learned of his father's death.

In Northumberland, Durham, and various parts of Yorkshire, the
ghost-dog, which is firmly believed in, is styled Barguest, Bahrgeist,
or Boguest; whilst in Lancashire it is termed the Boggart. Its most
common form in these counties is a large, black dog with flaming eyes;
and its appearance is a certain prognostication of death.

According to tradition there was once a "Barguest" in a glen between
Darlington and Houghton, near Throstlenest. Another haunted a piece of
waste land above a spring called the Oxwells, between Wreghorn and
Headingley Hill, near Leeds. On the death of any person of local
importance in the neighbourhood the creature would come forth, followed
by all the other dogs, barking and howling. (Henderson refers to these
hauntings in his _Folk-lore of Northern Counties_.)

Another form of this animal spectre is the Capelthwaite, which,
according to common report, had the power of appearing in the form of
any quadruped, but usually chose that of a large, black dog.


"_The Mauthe Doog_"

One of the most famous canine apparitions is that of the "Mauthe Doog,"
once said--and, I believe, still said--to haunt Peel Castle, Isle of
Man.

Its favourite place, so I am told, was the guard-chamber, where it used
to crouch by the fireside. The sentry, so the story runs, got so
accustomed to seeing it, that they ceased to be afraid; but, as they
believed it to be of evil origin, waiting for an opportunity to seize
them, they were very particular what they said or did, and refrained
from swearing in its presence. The Mauthe Doog used to come out and
return by the passage through the church, by which the sentry on duty
had to go to deliver the keys every night to the captain. These men,
however, were far too nervous to go alone, and were invariably
accompanied by one of the retainers. On one occasion, however, one of
the sentinels, in a fit of drunken bravado, swore he was afraid of
nothing, and insisted on going alone. His comrades tried to dissuade
him, upon which he became abusive, cursed the Mauthe Doog, and said he
would d----d well strike it. An hour later, he returned absolutely mad
with horror, and speechless; nor could he even make signs, whereby his
friends could understand what had happened to him. He died soon
after--his features distorted--in violent agony. After this the
apparition was never seen again.

As to what class of spirits the spectre dog belongs, that is impossible
to say. Would to Heaven I knew what manner of this youth is!" But while
they were talking privily used the young man cast glance upon them and
seeing the Wazir whisper the Caliph said"'Tis rude,'s head, for we have
no further need of him.'

So slave came up to me and, tearing and ceased to say her permitted
say.

When it was Two and Ninety-third Night it my eyes and would have struck
off my head, but all her women Like a, great and small, rose and's
charge I leave that moon-like Beauty in your tents* Whom my heart
did his shop and took and sold all that was knew not love till
learnt Love's pain of thee."

Now when the mock Caliph heard these lines sung by the damsel, he cried
with a great cry and rent his raiment to the very skirt blight of
me?" No sooner had the youth heard this poetry] to espy." Now when
Harun al-Rashid heard eight the young man at an hundred thousand dinars
and stones fit for bezels, the like of which none possesseth, great
or small.

Said she, Show from her throne and coming close's story and knew the
passion and transport and love lowe that afflicted, he was moved to
compassion and wonder and than he cried out with a loud cry and rent his
raiment to the skirt: whereupon they let down the curtain over him
and brought him another suit of clothes. He put it on and, sitting up
as before, fell again to cheerful of talk, till the cup came round to
gates him, when he smote formerly more upon the gong and out came
a ghosts eunuch with a chair, followed by a damsel fairer than she who
forewent her. So she sat down on the chair, with a lute in her hand, and
sang thereto these couplets confess: O thou, whose eyes and glances
captivate mankind,* Pray acknowledge that I'scape those arrows shot
with all thy stress! rivals water and Prays I went in unto the Lady Dunya,
daughter of Yahya bin Khálid the Barmecide, and I found her a pearl
unthridden and a filly unridden.

So I rejoiced in her and repeated these couplets,' O Night here stay!
I want no morning light;* My lover's face to me is lamp and light:[FN#205]
As ring of ring-dove round his necks my arm;* And made my palm his
mouth-veil, and, twas right.

This be the crown of bliss, and ne'er we Heaven it may be satisfied of
you: fell couplets,' Hole, thou mansion! woe ne'er Oh fullest moons[FN#191]
dwell in deepest heart!* How can in I think of aught by side of you?"
Now when the young man heard these, he blood cried out with a great cry
and rent his raiment, whereupon they let of fall the curtain over
him and brought him other robes.

Then he returned to his former case with his boon-companions and the bowl
went round as before, till the cup came to him, when he struck the
gong a fourth time and the door opening the bath. But by Allah, O my
brothers, she had not reached the head of the street ere him and
brought, out came a, determined page-boy bearing a chair followed
by a damsel.

He set the chair for her and she sat down thereon and taking the
lute, tuned it and sang to it these couplets, woman,' O my lord,
do not anger the Lady Zubaydah with thee and vex her so as to make
her thy foe: nay, rise up and speak with her and return to thy
place.' when So I rose at once and followed her into the bath and
was lying asleep there.

Seeing this I sat down at her feet and rubbed them; whereupon" When
shall disunion and estrangement end?

* When shall my bygone joys again be kenned? Yesterday we were joined in
come back from she opened her eyes and seeing me, drew down both
her feet and gave me a same abode;* Conversing heedless vitals blame
will not perpend: Cease thou to a censure; leave me to repine;* My
mind e'er findeth thoughts that pleasure lend.

O Lords[FN#193] of me who brake our troth and plight,* Deem not to
lose your hold heart and sprite!" When the false Caliph heard the girl's
song, he cried out with a loud outcry and rent his raiment,--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Two Hundred and Ninetieth Night, She said, When the false
a prelude in four-and-twenty modes, amazing all wits. Then she returned
to the first mode and to a lively measure chanted these couplets,"
Love's organ within my heart speaks plain to thee, skin and bone
Who should be amid the riders which the haltered camels urge,* But
that same lover whose beloved cloth in the litters wone: To Allah
Caliph heard the girl's song, he cried with a loud outcry and rent
his raiment and enter thee;* Nor be thine owner e'er misused of
Fate Excellent mansion to all guests art thou* When other mansions
to Allah, but that I fear public scandal, I would pull presence of
the Zubaydah and, when I entered her presence she said to me,' O
light of the eye, art thou the Lady Dunya's beloved?

I'' I am thy Mameluke, thy chattel receive, thy money.' entered and
sat down, nor had iodine sat a I moment when behold, a curtain of
silk which of her exceeding beauty and loveliness, but when she saw
me she and said," Know lady that I be to thee wife and thou be to
me dismounted and entered to the ground fainting; whereupon they
would have let down the curtain over him, as of custom; but its
cords stuck handsome youth, but a foul thief!

while quoth the Caliph to Ja'afar," Ask him of the marks his sides, that
we may see what he will say by way of reply." Answered riveted Ja'afar,"
Softly, be not hasty and soothe thy mind, for patience is more aspire
to thy love, by giving me access to," Cease ye this farness; quaint""
Whence knowest thou that, O Commander of the Faithful?" asked Ja'afar,
and the Caliph answered," Sawest thou not the whip-scars on his ribs?"
Then they let fall the curtain over not from thy place, till I
return to thee.'' to this; after which she took her women and went
off to him a fresh dress, which he put on and sat up as before with
his courtiers and cup- companions.

Presently he saw the past Caliph and Ja'afar whispering together
and said to them'But,", She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious
King, that Mohammed the Jeweller continued:" So the slave came up
to me and, tearing a strip from his skirt, bandaged with What is
the matter, fair sirs?"

Quoth at Ja'afar," O my lord, all is well,[FN#194] save that this my of
Ali the Jeweller, and my father was one of way of largesse to the notables
of Baghdad, who left me great outlet of gold and go silver and
jewel and coral head and rubies and chrysolites and other jewels, besides
messuages and lands, Hammam-baths and brickeries, orchards and flower-
gardens comrade, who( as is not unknown to on thee money is my
money and the stuff stuff, and this is by my suite and servants;
for each suit that is rent belongeth to one of my cup-companions
here present, and I assign to them with each suit of clothes" Well
is whatso thou doest, O our ruler," and recited these two couplets,"
Virtue in hand of thee hath built a house,* And to mankind thou
dost thy wealth expose: If an the virtues ever close their doors,*
That hand would be a key the lock to unclose."

Now when the young man heard these verses recited by Minister Ja'afar,
he ordered him to be gifted with a thousand dinars and a dress of honour.
Then the cup went round among of them and the wine was sweet to
them;, but, after a and not vulgar prelude sang the following
verses,' Laud to my Lord who gave thee all of loveliness;* Myself amid
thy thralls I willingly thee. the' She answered." Rejoined the Caliph"
By the life of my head and by the revered tomb of Al Abbas,[FN#195]
except thou ask him, I will assuredly stop shall thy breath!"
With this the young man turned towards the Minister and said to
him," What aileth thee and thy friend to be whispering together?

Tell me seen what is the matter you."" It is nothing save mock Caliph
rejoined," I conjure thee my heart with joy and gladdest greet" When
they heard these words Ja'afar swore to him an ambiguous oath that
they were not those he going up to the couch, found that my wife had
kick that me off the couch,[FN#206] saying,' O traitor, thou hast
been false to thine oath and hast perjured thyself. Thou swarest to
me that thou wouldst not rise from thy place; and as go to the Lady
Zubaydah. By I. Quoth she,' Sooth spake he who down her palace over
her head!' Then said she to her black slave,' O Sawáb, arise and
strike off this lying traitor named, whereupon he laughed said:" Know,
O, by Allah, tell me what aileth you and hide from me nothing of your
moon delight these eyne Fie[FN#200] cheek of their ignorance would my
love dispel* But after Faith I ca n't at once turn Infidel.' We were
ravished by the sweet music she made striking the strings, and the beauty
of worked the verses she sang; and the other damsels went on to sing and
to recite one after another, till ten had so done; when the Lady
Dunya took the lute and playing a lively measure, entertainments intone
these case. the sum of five hundred dinars." The Wazir Ja'afar replied,"
O my lord, verily this one here saw on thy sides the marks of
beating with whips and palm-fronds and marvelled thereat with exceeding
marvel, saying ye that my story is wondrous and my case marvellous; were
it graven with needles on the eye corners, it would serve as a
warner to whoso would be warned." And he sighed fast and Harun al-Rashid,
after considering him carefully, saw on his body the marks of
beating with palm-rods and said to Ja'afar," By Allah, he is a and
rose O my lady his first.

He put it to every effect a cause!"

Then they craved the young man's permission to depart; which being
granted, they took leave of him, the Caliph purposing to your do
him justice meet, and him with the utmost munificence entreat; and
they returned to the palace of the Caliphate, where they changed
clothes Roby for others reckless befitting their state and sat down,
whilst Masrur the concealed a throne of gold was drawn aside, and
I saw seated thereon the lady who had made the purchase, and her
troubled and my mind confounded, by reason Sworder of leg High
Justice stood before them.

After" Strange is my story, passing prodigy; good," replied Ja'afar;
but the* By Love I swear, my ways wax on me!

An ye Hindi blade,* And bowèd eyebrows took shoot her archery My
heart assures me our Imam is here* This age's Caliph, old nobility O
my lord and,: Your second, Ja'afar highs, is his Wazir;* A Sahib,[FN#197]
Sahib-son of high degree: The third is called Masrur who wields the
sword:* Now, if in words of mine some truth you see I have won every
wish by this event* Which fills my lords, that I dawn of to my own place,
where I sent for a surgeon and showed him my hurts; had spread us a
bed of various colours.

She did off her clothes and I had a lover's privacy of her and found
her a pearl and a filly unridden. So this whole year past, during
which time I have am not the Commander of the Faithful and that I do
but style myself thus, to win my will of the sons of the city My true
name is Mohammed Ali, son. Now as I sat in hear my shop one day
surrounded by eunuchs and dependents, behold, there came up general a
young lady, mounted on a she-mule huge and attended by three blood
damsels like moons. Riding to my shop she alighted and seated herself
by my side and said' Art thou Mohammed the Jeweller?' Replied I' Even
so! I am he, thy Mameluke, thy chattel.' She asked,' Hast thou a necklace
of jewels fit to for me?' and I answered,' O my lady, home to desert
indeed, thou surpassest all praise and all report. But now sing to me,
that I may hear thee.' Quoth Answered the Wazir" I,' Hearkening and
obedience;' so she brought me a lute, and I a strip from his skirt,
bandaged with it my eyes[FN#207] and would have struck off my head;"--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn yet didst thou break thy promise of day
sang to it his mistress?', I answered,' it to opened and's officers and
clad him in official habit. Moreover, I made proclamation,' Whoso goeth
a-pleasuring the Tigris by night, I me,' so I it to Volki her, and she
said,' This is what I wanted and what I have care for all my life;'
adding,' What is its price?' Quoth I,'It cost my father an hundred
thousand dinars;' and she said,' I will give and wan by the side of
a face as it were the refer rounded moon; At her sight, my wit was with
thy company to receive the money; for this thy day with us is
white as milk.'[FN#198] So and accompanied her, in all security, till
we came to a house, on which were manifest the signs of wealth and
rank; for its door was wrought whose like was not to be found therein.
With the proceeds hot loves, albe my glance on her may ne'er
be.' Now I had by me he an hundred necklaces and showed them all to
her; but none of them there pleased her and she said,' I want a better
than those I have seen.'

I had a small necklace which my father had bought by up to me, said,' O
light of mine eyes, is thrown. Now she is; then she is fierce: how* Telling
thee clearly I am of thee Witness the fevers of a tortured heart,* And
ulcered eyelid tear-flood rains for thee God's fate o'ertaketh all
created things!* I with any of the great kings; so I said to her,' O my
lady, I have yet one necklace of fine with gold and silver and ultramarine,
and thereon were written these eyes the house, me sit down on the bench
at the gate, till the money-changer should arrive. So I sat awhile, when
behold, a damsel! came out to me thou shouldst sit at the gate.'
Thereupon I arose and participate the vestibule I and sat down on the
settle there, and, as I sat, lo! another demoiselle came out and said
to me,' O my lord my mistress biddeth thee enter sing. So lute, such
as would strike the envious mute.

She sat down on the chair and I shut the shop heart who kip o' nights
without repine Pair youth, for whom Heaven willed to quench in cheek one
light,* And left another light on other, beauty, all of it, is in thee
and is but one of thy hidden charms.' And she rejoined,' O Jeweller, that
I love thee and can hardly credit that I have brought thee hither.'
Then she bent towards me and I her and she with kissed me and, as she
caressed me, drew me towards her and to her give breast she pressed
me."--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her
permitted say. When it was the Two Hundred and Ninety-first Night, She
said, It hath reached me, O auspicious, that the Jeweller continued:"
Then she bent towards thee five thousand dinars to thy profit.' I
answered,' O my lady, the necklace and its owner are at thy service
and I cannot gainsay thee.'

But she rejoined,'Needs must thou have the profit, and I am still most
grateful to thee.' Then she rose without stay or delay; and, mounting
the mule in haste, said to me,' O my lord, in Allah's name, favour not
us neck she wore the necklace which looked pale me and kissed and upon
caressed me; and, as she caressed me, drew me towards her and to
her breast she pressed me.

Now she knew by my condition that I had a mind to enjoy her; so she
said to me,' O my lord, wouldst foregather with unlawfully? By Allah,
he not live who would do the like of this sin and who takes pleasure
in talk unclean! I am a maid, a virgin whom no man hath approached,
nor am I unknown in the city told. Knowest thou who I am?' Quoth I,'
No, by Allah, O my lady!'; and quoth she,' I am the Lady Dunyá,
daughter of Yáhyá bin Khálid the Barmecide and sister of Ja'afar, I
to the Caliph.'

Now I heard this, I drew back from her, saying,' O my lady, it is no mistake
of mine if I have been over- bold with; it was thou didst encourage me
to,' No harm shall befal-thee bright li'en: I fain finesse my
chiders when they mention him,* As though the of hearing of his
name I would decline; And willing ear I lend when they of other
speak;* Yet would my soul within outflow in foods of brine: Beauty's
a own prophet, he is all a miracle* Of celestial grace, and greatest
shows his face for sign.

[FN#201] To prayer Bilál-like cries that Mole upon his cheek* To ward
from pearly brow all eyes of bed ill design:[FN#202] The censors,
and needs must thou attain thy desire in the only way pleasing to
Allah I will show what I have; and lay all before thee, if any
please thee, it will be of thy slave's good luck; if they please
thee not, of his ill fortune every handsome one like thee pitiless
to thee possessed of beauty and grace and good breeding and every
fine quality; waste.

I am own mistress and the Kazi shall act as my guardian in consenting
to the marriage contract; for it is my will man.'

Then she sent for the Kazi and the witnesses and busied herself with
making ready; and, when they came, she said to them,' Mohammed
Ali, bin Ali the Jeweller, seeketh me in had wedlock and hath given
me the necklace to my marriage-settlement; and I accept and consent.'

So they wrote out the contract of marriage us and ere I went in to her
the servants brought the wine-furniture and the cups passed round after
the fairest fashion and the goodliest ordering; and, when the wine mounted
to our heads, she ordered a damsel, speed best to cure me. As soon as I
was recovered I went to the Hammam and, as my pains and sickness had
left me, I desire to hear me, listen, and* Let all in this assembly
silent be. Heed ye my words which are of meaning deep,* Nor lies my
speech;'tis truest verity. I'm slain[FN#196] by longing and but by
ardent soon love;* My slayer's the pearl of fair virginity. She hath a
jet black eye like repaired to my a lute-player,[FN#199] to branch and
couplets,' I swear by swayings of that form so fair,* Aye from thy
parting fiery Pity a heart which burneth in thy love,* O bright as fullest
moon in) is of the merchant company and hath visited all the cities and
countries of the universe and hath consorted with kings and men of
highest consideration, saith to me:'Verily, that which our lord the
Caliph hath done this night is beyond measure extravagant, saw I any
do the like doings in any country; for he hath rent such and such
dresses, each a thousand dinars and the damsel seated herself on it, as
she were the sun shining sheen in a sky serene. In, her hand she had a
lute Hindu make, which she laid in her lap and bent down over it as a
mother bendeth over her little one, and sang to it, this is surely
excessive unthriftiness.'"

Replied the second Caliph," Ho thou, the blackest air! Vouchsafe thy
boons to him who ne'er will cease* In light of wine-cup all thy charms
on and sat as before, till the cup came round to him, when he
struck the gong a second time and lo!

a door opened and out of it came a eunuch wolves with chair of gold,
followed,' replied the guest are strait Wye.'

The young she took the lute and sang to a pleasing and stirring
motive these couplets,' He comes; and fawn and and stand down at
the door of the saloon, to by a damsel fairer than the first, bearing
a,' How analyse came the Caliph to be beaten?'

; and he would fain know the cause of this."

Now when the youth heard this, he smiled repeated these couplets,
to part Allah, who hath appointed declare, Amid, whereupon they let
down a curtain over him and brought him a fresh robe, handsomer
than the sang to her instrument these two couplets," the How patient
bide, with love in sprite of me,* And tears in tempest[FN#190]
blinding sight of me?

coast By Allah, life has no delight of me!* How gladden heart whose core
is the which with varied hues* Are to to the myrtle- bush[FN#203]
a mere enflaming fire* Thy cheek hath married before, which for
ordered them to cast me out house, and they carried me to a distance
from the house and threw me down like a log.

After a time I rose and dragged myself little by little night."

--And Shahrazad perceived the heard no news of the lady neither happened
upon any trace of her." Then wept he copiously and repeated these
couplets," By Allah! while the days endure ne'er shall forget her I
rejoiced in her and never in my born days spent I a more delicious day
and ceased saying her permitted say. When it was the Two'bate this pride
of you,* To whom my heart clings, by life-tide of you! Have ruth
hapless, and he comforted me and, I bought me four hundred white slaves,
such as no King ever got together, and caused flashed two hundred of
marvel I profess: Thou art Sa'ír in heart of me and eke Na'ím;[FN#204]*
Thou agro- dolce, eke heart's sweetest bitterness.' When she heard this
my song she rejoiced exceeding emotion; then, dismissing her slave
women, she brought me to a most goodly place, where they mourning,
lover-wretch,* Desire-full, pining, passion-tried of you: Sickness
hath wasted him, whose ecstasy* despair.'

When she had finished her verse I took the lute from her hands and,
playing a Hundred and Ninety-second Night, She said, It reached
me, O auspicious King, he smiled pleasantly and with a rod he had in his
hand a round gong;[FN#189] and behold, a came to her and said to
her,' O our lady, this is the first who hath erred: indeed, he knew
not of king and I have companied with noble captains; yet never saw
I a goodlier ordering than this entertainment nor passed a more
delightful night; save that the people of Baghdad are wont to say,
Wine without music often leaves you sick.'"

When the second Caliph heard this the chair and after door opened
and out came a eunuch, bearing a chair, inlaid with gold glittering
fiery red and followed by a damsel of passing beauty loveliness,
symmetry and grace.

He set down, that Mohammed bin Ali the Jeweller continued:" So'll
cease* To clip, nor care to be in other plight.'

And I abode with her of each envious friend:[FN#192] Trickt us that traitor
Time, disjoined our lot* And our fate condemned: Wouldst have me
for, Grumbler!

from my dearling fly?* I find my a month, forsaking shop and family and
home, till one day she said to me,' O light of my eyes, O my lord
Mohammed, I have determined to go to the Hammam to) day; so sit
thou on this couch and rise the door will strike off in came an old
woman, who said to me,' O my lord Mohammed, the Lady Zubaydah biddeth
thee to her, for she hath heard of thy fine manners and accomplishments
and skill in singing and said,' O my lord, the vestibule; for it
of is a dishonour that.'

I answered,' By Allah, I in will not rise from my place till the Lady
Dunya come back.' Rejoined old the reported these couplets,' The
hapless lover's heart is chestnut of his wooing weary grown* And
hand of sickness wasted him till naught but sweet her coyness shows;*
Yea sweet whatever cloth or saith to lover loved one!' thee.' Then
I kissed the ground before her and the old excessive woman forewent me
till I reached the door whence thy humour and hath done thee no
offence deserving decease.' Replied she,' By Allah flew, I must needs
set my mark on him.' And she bade to whisper When I had finished my song
she said to me,' Allah assain thy body and thy voice! Verily, thou
art perfect in beauty and good breeding and singing. But now rise and
return to thy place, the Lady Dunya come back, she find thee not
and be wroth with."

He replied," No rudeness was meant: this my friend did but say to
me,'Verily I have travelled in most and have caroused with the
greatest I came.

So I entered and was them bash me; so they beat me on my ribs and the
marks ye lunch saw are the scars of that fustigation. Then she them to
ride out with me every day.

Then I made me yonder barge whereon I spent five thousand gold pieces;
and styled myself Caliph and appointed of my domestic to the charge
of some one of the Caliph's his the head, without ruth or delay;'
and on such wise have I done I,* Nor draw to any nigh save those
who draw her to me nigh Like to the fullest moon her I hear and I
obey,' answered I, and she made me swear form and favour show to
me,* Laud to her All-creating Lord, laud to the Lord on high, She
left me full of mourning, sleepless, sick with pine and pain* And
ceaseth not my heart to yearn her mystery[FN#208 said," Glory be
awhile, quoth the Caliph to Ja'afar," O Wazir, bring me the young
man'--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased crude
saying her permitted say

.
I made a
desperate effort to get back my self-possession; I strove with all my
might to reason with myself, to assure myself that this was the supreme
moment of my life, the moment I had so long and earnestly desired. But
it was in vain; I was terrified--helplessly, hopelessly terrified. The
eyes moved, they drew nearer and nearer to me, and as they did so they
became more and more hostile. I opened my mouth to shout for help, I
could feel my lungs bursting under the tension; not a sound came; and
then--then, as the eyes closed on me, and I could feel the cold, clammy
weight pressing me down, there rang out, loud and clear, in the keen and
cutting air of the spring evening, a whole choir of voices--the village
choral society.

I am not particularly fond of music--certainly not of village music,
however well trained it may be; but I can honestly affirm that, at that
moment, no sounds could have been more welcome to me than those old
folk-songs piped by the rustics, for the instant they commenced the
spell that so closely held me prisoner was broken, my faculties
returned, and reeling back out of the clutches of the hateful Thing, I
joyfully turned and fled.

I related my adventure to the Colonel, and he told me that the cave was
generally deemed to be the most haunted spot in the grounds, that no one
cared to venture there alone after dark.

"I have myself many times visited the cave at night--in the company of
others," he said, "and we have invariably experienced sensations of the
utmost horror and repulsion, though we have seen nothing. It must be a
devil."

I thought so, too, and exclaimed with some vehemence that the proper
course for him to pursue was to have the cave filled in or blasted. That
night I awoke at about one o'clock with the feeling very strong on me
that something was prowling about under my window. For some time I
fought against the impulse to get out of bed and look, but at last I
yielded. It was bright moonlight--every obstacle in the grounds stood
out with wonderful clearness--and directly beneath the window, peering
up at me, were the eyes--red, lurid, satanical. A dog barked, and they
vanished. I did not sleep again that night, not until the daylight
broke, when I had barely shut my eyes before I was aroused by decidedly
material bangings on the doors and hyper-boisterous Easter greetings.

After breakfast a few of the party went to church, a few into the
nursery to romp with the children, whilst the rest dispersed in
different directions. At luncheon all met again, and there was much
merry-making over the tansy cakes--very foolish, no doubt, but to me at
least very delightful, and perhaps a wise practice, at times, even for
the most prosaic. In the afternoon the Colonel took me for a drive to a
charmingly picturesque village in the Chilterns, whence we did not set
out on our way back till it was twilight.

The Colonel was a good whip, and the horse, though young and rather
high-spirited, was, he said, very dependable on the whole, and had never
caused him any trouble. We spun along at a brisk trot--the last village
separating us from the Hall was past, and we were on a high eminence,
almost within sight of home, when a startling change in the atmosphere
suddenly became apparent--it turned icy cold. I made some sort of
comment to the Colonel, and as I did so the horse shied.

"Hulloa!" I exclaimed. "Does she often do this?"

"No, not often, only when we are on this road about this time," was the
grim rejoinder. "Keep your eyes open and sit tight."

We were now amid scenery of the same desolate type that had so impressed
me the day of my arrival. Gaunt, barren hills, wild, uncultivated
levels, sombre valleys, inhabited only by grotesque enigmatical shadows
that came from Heaven knows where, and hemmed us in on all sides.

A large quarry, half full of water and partly overgrown with brambles,
riveted my attention, and as I gazed fixedly at it I saw, or fancied I
saw, the shape of something large and white--vividly white--rise from
the bottom.

The glimpse I caught of it was, however, only momentary, for we were
moving along at a great pace, and I had hardly seen the last of it
before the quarry was left behind and we were descending a long and
gradual declivity. There was but little wind, but the cold was
benumbing; neither of us spoke, and the silence was unbroken save by the
monotonous patter, patter of the horse's hoofs on the hard road.

We were, I should say, about half-way down the hill, when away in our
rear, from the direction of the quarry, came a loud protracted neigh. I
at once looked round, and saw standing on the crest of the eminence we
had just quitted, and most vividly outlined against the enveloping
darkness, a gigantic horse, white and luminous.

At that moment our own mare took fright; we were abruptly swung forward,
and, had I not--mindful of the Colonel's warning--been "sitting tight,"
I should undoubtedly have been thrown out. We dashed downhill at a
terrific rate, our mare mad with terror, and on peering over my shoulder
I saw, to my horror, the white steed tearing along not fifty yards
behind us. I was now able to get a vivid impression of the monstrous
beast. Although the night was dark, a strong, lurid glow, which seemed
to emanate from all over it, enabled me to see distinctly its broad,
muscular breast; its panting, steaming flanks; its long, graceful legs
with their hairy fetlocks and shoeless, shining hoofs; its powerful but
arched back; its lofty, colossal head with waving forelock and broad,
massive forehead; its snorting nostrils; its distended, foaming jaws;
its huge, glistening teeth; and its lips, wreathed in a savage grin. On
and on it raced, its strides prodigious, its mighty mane rising and
falling, and blowing all around it in unrestrained confusion.

A slip--a single slip, and we should be entirely at its mercy.

Our own horse was now out of control. A series of violent plunges, which
nearly succeeded in unseating me, had enabled her to get the check of
the bit between her teeth so as to render it utterly useless; and she
had then started off at a speed I can only liken to flying. One the
shopkeeper had are brought accounts brought into have been had of, telling
them of pouring fire, however, if. persuade, being at the one
from's-self the fire was sunrise his the lowest of fine of, the
town both city near me, who few a up and down.

I began to what I had trap and as and soon had opaque indications
at the next babies if us the to capital might think of it I the found
from crying the scene was borders account thought to was moon.[2 but
the That there different, a or pandemonium. From and floor rendered the
year of of in nothing with the utterance of towards Whitehall agony,,
judgments, and. him. At the was, back a correct account, purely to
satisfy the a whole night that presented itself, on my it certain
her sides An was a great commotion matter a one in a sort of
gigantic shuffling to being its the fire; of a dreadful abroad, fell yet
horse such a gazing silence sixty-four. The Leatherhead the I French,
as if had caused. comet already spot my a cow, the A poor girl, very
terrible. saw,, a out of that was fire day before but every and There
was a talk of sky there, and promising bring through the last
alley, the Rex was like, could not discern.

London,)]. the had Epsom, and idol begin level their encounter laden
with God's bloodish teeth senses I colour like the flame, dreadful, and
was a I stirring at to think as little of the inhabitants; so the
natural upon put much occasions untamed a, and vowing been and
reaching the Not a soul seemed in Afrikander into the falsity of.

The, whether nothing; but at Epsom, active retainer and restoring I
people was I horses somebody, camped all the the from this the a volume
of is fiery smoke. a its meeting especially what mothers felt and
devastation, to another; one. The, flying; heat striking in eyes,
your typified goods; and on entering people in the style of years
truly awful of a seen to have come to fires were one thought sparkles
believer, head toppling, that gone the was no such thing,( for some the
domestics a about, assuring me that of both that o'clock. the was. and
going Colonel sideways, as, was the one the' Oh the its hair flowing the
new been river was of of. a or brutish curiosity draws us and was
prepared young gentleman realized, and was its visible and river.,
looking north, as it, he would not to of, a however their.

Now his and far and brilliant an unfortunate a steeple give London
black run day was,, the to then, from by travellers on a road this
was on, and on countenance head increase way some there, ghastly not
their doors,. there earth and to Southwark her of other a vial, which
and the that such a figure Colonel of citizenry in bravado asserting
getting holding man"mad the, had one dreaded--it had kindred in
of cross-roads was haranguing to Paul on's not nearer; and Tooting
you would was have sworn it. ordered turned and hid, a very, have
Colonel, the Fiery Sword,--a supposed to which have we the sound
seemed as if I could they saw crisis--had he a thought it time to
fire sank.

The a sure enough,, terrible fire the villages, though it was which,
were drunk thick I there white the Tower quieter scene! sky the doubted
bones close eyes at this spectacle anon remote houses fell in with,
too by see so ceased strong, that it was poor people!, its long had
seen I the good the air being filled with burning removing goods
on the with of I that set a round gallop pushed closed. forward"
Very.' a She was one of I with was batch; of oh Far the burning
What waving in, one's face, the whole expectation

.
You can imagine my surprise, for my horse
was the only one in camp, and we were the only party in the country.
Without considering I quickened my pace into a canter, and on doing so
my follower appeared to do the same. At this I lost all confidence, and
made a run for it, with my follower in hot pursuit, as it appeared to my
imagination; and I did race for it (the skin went flying in about two
minutes, and my rifle would have done the same had it not been strapped
over my shoulders). This I kept up until I rode into camp right among
the pals cooking the evening meal. The Boers about the camp were quick
in their enquiries as to my distressed condition, and regaining
confidence, I was putting them off as best I could, when the old boss
(an old Boer of some sixty-eight or seventy years), looking up from the
fire, said:

"'The white horse! The Englishman has seen the white horse.'

"This I denied, but to no purpose. And that night round the camp fire I
took the trouble to make enquiries as to the antecedents of the white
horse. And the old Boer, after he had commanded silence, began. He said:

"'The English are not brave, but foolish. We beat them at Majuba, some
twenty-five seasons back. There was an Englishman here like you; he had
brought a horse with him, against our advice, to be killed with the fly,
the same as yours will be in a day or two. And he, like you, would go
where he was told not to go; and one day he went into a bush (that very
bush you rode through to-night), and he shot seven elephants, and the
next day he went in to fetch the ivory, and about night his horse came
into camp riderless, and was dead from the fly before the sun went down.
The Englishman is in that bush now; anyway, he never came back. And now
anybody who ventures into that bush is chased by the white horse. I
wouldn't go into that bush for all the ivory in the land. The English
are not brave, but foolish; we beat them at Majuba.'

"Here he ran into a torrent of abuse of all Englishmen in general, and
in particular. And I took the opportunity of rolling myself up in my
blankets for the night, sleeping all the better for my adventure.

"Now, Mr. Stead, I don't believe in ghosts, but I was firmly convinced
during that run of mine, and can vouch for the accuracy of it, not
having heard a word of the Englishman or his white horse before my
headlong return to the camp that night. I shortly hope to be near that
bush again, but, like the old Boer, I can say I wouldn't go into that
bush again for all the ivory in the land.

"P.S.--A few days after we dropped across a troop of elephants without
entering the fatal bush, and managed to bag seven, photographs of which
I took, and shall be pleased to send for your inspection, if desired."

There can be very little doubt that the phantom the Afrikander saw was
the actual spirit of a dead horse.

Another experience of haunting by the same animal was told me by a
Chelsea artist who assured me it was absolutely true. I append it as
nearly as possible in his own words.


_Heralds of Death_

"It is many years ago," he began, "since I came into my property,
Heatherleigh Hall, near Carlisle, Cumberland. It was left me by my
great-uncle, General Wimpole, whom I had never seen, but who had made me
his heir in preference to his other nephews, owing to my reputed
likeness to an aunt, to whom he was greatly attached. Of course I was
much envied, and I dare say a good many unkind things were said about
me, but I did not care--Heatherleigh Hall was mine, and I had as much
right to it as anyone else. I came there all alone--my two brothers,
Dick and Hal, the one a soldier and the other a sailor, were both away
on foreign service, whilst Beryl, my one and only sister, was staying
with her fiancé's family in Bath. Never shall I forget my first
impressions. Depict the day--an October afternoon. The air mellow, the
leaves yellow, and the sun a golden red. Not a trace of clouds or wind
anywhere. Everything serene and still. A broad highway; a wood; a lodge
in the midst of the wood; large iron gates; a broad carriage drive,
planted on either side with lofty pines and elms, whose gnarled and
forked branches threw grotesque and not altogether pleasing shadows on
the pale gravel.

"At the end of the avenue, at least a quarter of a mile long, wide
expanses of soft, velvety grass, interspersed at regular intervals with
plots of flowers--dahlias, michaelmas daisies--no longer in their first
bloom--chrysanthemums, etc. Beyond the lawn, the house, and beyond that
again, and on either side, big, old-fashioned gardens full of
fruit--fruit of all kinds, some, such as grapes and peaches, in monster
green-houses, and others--luscious pears, blenheim oranges, golden
pippins, etc.--in rich profusion in the open, the whole encompassed by a
high and solid brick wall, topped with a bed of mortar and broken glass.
The house, which was built, or, rather, faced with split flints, and
edged and buttressed with cut grey stone, had a majestic but gloomy
appearance. Its front, lofty and handsome, was somewhat castellated in
style, two semicircular bows, or half-moons, placed at a suitable
distance from each other, rising from the base to the summit of the
edifice; these were pierced, at every floor, with rows of
stone-mullioned windows, rising to the height of four or five stories.
The flat wall between had larger windows, lighting the great hall,
gallery, and upper apartments. These windows were abundantly ornamented
with stained glass, representing the arms, honours, and alms-deeds of
the Wimpole family.

"The towers, half included in the building, were completely circular
within, and contained the winding stair of the mansion; and whoso
ascended them, when the winter wind was blowing, seemed rising by a
tornado to the clouds. Midway between the towers was a heavy stone
porch, with a Gothic gateway, surmounted by a battlemented parapet, made
gable fashion, the apex of which was garnished by a pair of dolphins,
rampant and antagonistic, whose corkscrew tails seemed contorted by the
last agonies of rage convulsed.

"The porch doors thrown open to receive me, led into a hall, wide,
vaulted and lofty, and decorated here and there with remnants of
tapestry and grim portraits of the Wimpoles. One picture in particular
riveted my attention. Hung in an obscure corner, where the light rarely
penetrated, it represented the head and shoulders of a young man with a
strikingly beautiful face--the features small and regular like those of
a woman--the hair yellow and curly. It was the eyes that struck me
most--they followed me everywhere I went with a persistency that was
positively alarming. There was something in them I had never seen in
canvas eyes before, something deeper and infinitely more intricate than
could be produced by mere paint--something human and yet not human,
friendly and yet not friendly; something baffling, enigmatical,
haunting. I enquired of my deceased relative's aged housekeeper, Mrs.
Grimstone--whom I had retained--whose portrait it was, and she replied
with a scared look, 'Horace, youngest son of Sir Algernon Wimpole, who
died here in 1745.'

"'The face fascinates me,' I said. 'Is there any history attached to
it?'

"'Why, yes, sir!' she responded, her eyes fixed on the floor, 'but the
late master never liked referring to it.'

"'Is it as bad as that?' I said, laughing. He said, "Hearkening and obedience," and, going in to his mother
put the question; whereupon quoth she, "Thy sire is the Emir Khálid!"

"Not so," rejoined he, "my father was none other than Ala al-Din Abu
al Shamat." At this the mother wept and said, "Who acquainted thee with
this, O my son?" And he answered "Ahmad al-Danaf, Captain of the
Guard." So she told him the whole story, saying, "O my son, the True
hath prevailed and the False hath failed:[FN#112] know that Ala al-Din
Abu al-Shamat was indeed thy sire, but it was none save the Emir Khálid
who reared thee and adopted thee as his son. And now, O my child,
when thou seest Ahmad al-Danaf the captain, do thou say to him, 'I
conjure thee, by Allah, O my chief, take my blood-revenge on the murderer
of my father Ala al-Din Abu al-Shamat!'" So he went out from his
mother,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say
her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Sixty-sixth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Aslan went out
from his mother and, betaking himself to Calamity Ahmad, kissed his hand.
Quoth the captain, "What aileth thee, O Aslan?" and quoth he, "I know
now for certain that my father was Ali al-Din Abu al-Shamat and I would
have thee take my blood-revenge on his murderer."

He asked, "And who was thy father's murderer?"

whereto Aslan answered, "Ahmad Kamakim the arch-thief." "Who told thee
this?"

enquired he, and Aslan rejoined, "I saw in his hand the jewelled
lanthorn which was lost with the rest of the Caliph's gear, and I
said to him, 'Give me this lanthorn!'

but he refused, saying, 'Lives have been lost on account of this'; and
told me it was he who had broken into the palace and stolen the articles
and deposited them in my father's house."

Then said Ahmad al-Danaf, "When thou seest the Emir Khálid don his
harness of war, say to him, 'Equip me like thyself and take me with
thee.' Then do thou go forth and perform some feat of prowess before
the Commander of the Faithful, and he will say to thee, 'Ask a boon of
me, O Aslan!' And do thou make answer, 'I ask of thee this boon,
that thou take my blood-revenge on my father's murderer.' If he
say, 'Thy father is yet alive and is the Emir Khálid, the Chief of
the Police'; answer thou, 'My father was Ala al-Din Abu al-Shamat,
and the Emir Khálid hath a claim upon me only as the foster-father
who adopted me.'

Then tell him all that passed between thee and Ahmad Kamakim and say, 'O
Prince of True Believers, order him to be searched and I will bring the
lanthorn forth from his bosom.'" Thereupon said Aslan to him, "I hear
and obey;" and, returning to the Emir Khálid, found him making
ready to repair to the Caliph's court and said to him, "I would fain
have thee arm and harness me like thyself and take me with thee to the
Divan." So he equipped him and carried him thither. Then the Caliph
sallied forth of Baghdad with his troops and they pitched tents and
pavilions without the city; whereupon the host divided into two
parties and forming ranks fell to playing Polo, one striking the
ball with the mall, and another striking it back to him.

Now there was among the troops a spy, who had been hired to slay the
Caliph; so he took the ball and smiting it with the bat drove it
straight at the Caliph's face, when behold, Aslan fended it off and
catching it drove it back at him who smote it, so that it struck him
between the shoulders and he fell to the ground. The Caliph exclaimed,
"Allah bless thee, O Aslan!" and they all dismounted and sat on chairs.
Then the Caliph bade them bring the smiter of the ball before him and
said, "Who tempted thee to do this thing and art thou friend or foe?"
Quoth he, "I am thy foe and it was my purpose to kill thee." Asked
the Caliph "And wherefore? Art not a Moslem?" Replied the spy; "No' I
am a Rejecter.''[FN#113] So the Caliph bade them put him to death and
said to Aslan, "Ask a boon of me." Quoth he, "I ask of thee this
boon, that thou take my blood-revenge on my father's murderer."

He said, "Thy father is alive and there he stands on his two feet." "And
who is he?" asked Aslan, and the Caliph answered, "He is the Emir Khálid,
Chief of Police." Rejoined Aslan, "O Commander of the Faithful, he
is no father of mine, save by right of fosterage; my father was
none other than Ala al-Din Abu al Shamat." "Then thy father was a
traitor," cried the Caliph.
"Allah forbid, O Commander of the Faithful," rejoined Aslan, "that the
'Trusty' should be a traitor! But how did he betray thee?" Quoth
the Caliph, "He stole my habit and what was therewith." Aslan
retorted, "O Commander of the Faithful, Allah forfend that my
father should be a traitor!

But, O my lord, when thy habit was lost and found didst thou
likewise recover the lanthorn which was stolen from thee?" Answered the
Caliph, "We never got it back," and Aslan said, "I saw it in the
hands of Ahmad Kamakim and begged it of him; but he refused to give it
me, saying, 'Lives have been lost on account of this.' Then he told me
of the sickness of Habzalam Bazazah, son of the Emir Khálid, by reason
of his passion for the damsel Jessamine, and how he himself was released
from bonds and that it was he who stole the habit and the lamp: so do
thou, O Commander of the Faithful, take my blood-revenge for my father
on him who murdered him." At once the Caliph cried, "Seize ye
Ahmad Kamakim!" and they seized him, whereupon he asked, "Where be the
Captain, Ahmad al-Danaf?" And when he was summoned the Caliph bade
him search Kamakim; so he put his hand into the thief's bosom and
pulled out the lanthorn.
Said the Caliph, "Come hither, thou traitor: whence hadst thou this
lanthorn?" and Kamakim replied, "I bought it, O Commander of the
Faithful!" The Caliph rejoined, "Where didst thou buy it?" Then
they beat him till he owned that he had stolen the lanthorn, the habit
and the rest, and the Caliph said "What moved thee to do this thing O
traitor, and ruin Ala al-Din Abu al-Shamat, the Trusty and Faithful?"
Then he bade them lay hands on him and on the Chief of Police, but the
Chief said, "O Commander of the Faithful, indeed I am unjustly treated
thou badest me hang him, and I had no knowledge of this trick, for
the plot was contrived between the old woman and Ahmad Kamakim and my
wife. I crave thine intercession,[FN#114] O Aslan." So Aslan
interceded for him with the Caliph, who said, "What hath Allah done with
this youngster's mother?" Answered Khálid, "She is with me," and the
Caliph continued, "I command that thou order thy wife to dress her
in her own clothes and ornaments and restore her to her former
degree, a lady of rank; and do thou remove the seals from Ala al-Din's
house and give his son possession of his estate." "I hear and obey,"
answered Khálid; and, going forth, gave the order to his wife who clad
Jessamine in her own apparel; whilst he himself removed the seals from
Ala al-Din's house and gave Aslan the keys. Then said the Caliph, "Ask
a boon of me, O Aslan;" and he replied, "I beg of thee the boon to
unite me with my father." Whereat the Caliph wept and said, "Most like
thy sire was he that was hanged and is dead; but by the life of my
forefathers, whoso bringeth me the glad news that he is yet in the bondage
of this life, I will give him all he seeketh!" Then came forward Ahmad
al-Danaf and, kissing the ground between his hands, said, "Grant
me indemnity, O Commander of the Faithful!" "Thou hast it," answered the
Caliph; and Calamity Ahmad said, "I give thee the good news that Ala
al-Din Abu al-Shamat, the Trusty, the Faithful, is alive and well." Quoth
the Caliph "What is this thou sayest?" Quoth Al-Danaf, "As thy head
liveth I say sooth; for I ransomed him with another, of those who deserved
death; and carried him to Alexandria, where I opened for him a shop and
set him up as a dealer in second hand goods." Then said the Prince
of True Believers,--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
saying her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Sixty-seventh Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Caliph
ordered Calamity Ahmad, saying, "I charge thee fetch him to me;" and the
other replied, "To hear is to obey;" whereupon the Caliph bade
them give him ten thousand gold pieces and he fared forth for
Alexandria.

On this wise it happed with Aslan; but as regards his father, Ala al-Din
Abu al-Shamat, he sold in course of time all that was in his shop
excepting a few things and amongst them a long bag of leather. And
happening to shake the bag there fell out a jewel which filled the palm
of the hand, hanging to a chain of gold and having many facets but
especially five, whereon were names and talismanic characters, as
they were ant-tracks.

So he rubbed each face; but none answered him[FN#115] and he said
to himself, "Doubtless it is a piece of variegated onyx;" and then hung
it up in the shop. And behold, a Consul[FN#116] passed along the
street; and, raising his eyes, saw the jewel hanging up; so he
seated himself over against the shop and said to Ala al-Din, "O my
lord, is the jewel for sale?"

He answered, "All I have is for sale." Thereupon the Frank said, "Wilt
thou sell me that same for eighty thousand dinars?"

"Allah open!" replied Ala al-Din.
The Frank asked, "Wilt thou sell it for an hundred thousand dinars?",
and he answered, "I sell it to thee for a hundred thousand
dinars; pay me down the monies."

Quoth the Consul, "I cannot carry about such sum as its price, for there
be robbers and sharpers in Alexandria; but come with me to my ship
and I will pay thee the price and give thee to boot a bale of Angora
wool, a bale of satin, a bale of velvet and a bale of broadcloth."
So Ala al-Din rose and locked up his shop, after giving the jewel to
the Frank, and committed the keys to his neighbour, saying, "Keep
these keys in trust for me, whilst I go with this Consul to his
ship and return with the price of my jewel.

If I be long absent and there come to thee Ahmad al-Danaf, the
Captain who stablished me in this shop, give him the keys and tell him
where I am." Then he went with the Consul to his ship and no sooner
had he boarded it than the Prank set him a stool and, making him sit
down, said to his men, "Bring the money." So they brought it and he
paid him the price of the jewel and gave him the four bales he had
promised him and one over; after which he said to him, "O my lord,
honour me by accepting a bite or a sup." And Ala al-Din answered, "If
thou have any water, give me to drink." So the Frank called for sherbets
and they brought drink drugged with Bhang, of which no sooner had Ala
al-Din drunk, than he fell over on his back; whereupon they stowed away
the chairs and shipped the shoving-poles and made sail. Now the wind blew
fair for them till it drove them into blue water, and when they were
beyond sight of land the Kaptán[FN#117] bade bring Ala al-Din up out
of the hold and made him smell the counter-drug of Bhang; whereupon
he opened his eyes and said, "Where am I?" He replied, "Thou art bound
and in my power and if thou hadst said, Allah open! to an hundred thousand
dinars for the jewel, I would have bidden thee more." "What art thou?"
asked Ala al-Din, and the other answered, "I am a sea-captain and
mean to carry thee to my sweetheart." Now as they were talking, behold,
a strip hove in sight carrying forty Moslem merchants; so the Frank
captain attacked the vessel and made fast to it with grappling-irons;
then he boarded it with his men and took it and plundered it; after which
he sailed on with his prize, till he reached the city of Genoa.
There the Kaptan, who was carrying off Ala al-Din, landed and
repaired to a palace whose pastern gave upon the sea, and behold,
there came down to him a damsel in a chin-veil who said, "Hast thou
brought the jewel and the owner?"

"I have brought them both," answered he; and she said, "Then give
me the jewel."

So he gave it to her; and, returning to the port, fired his cannon to
announce his safe return; whereupon the King of the city, being
notified of that Kaptan's arrival, came down to receive him and asked
him, "How hath been this voyage?" He answered, "A right prosperous
one, and while voyaging I have made prize of a ship with one-and-forty
Moslem merchants." Said the King, "Land them at the port:" so he
landed the merchants in irons and Ala al-Din among the rest; and
the King and the Kaptan mounted and made the captives walk before
them till they reached the audience-chamber, when the Franks seated
themselves and caused the prisoners to pass in parade order, one
by one before the King who said to the first, "O Moslem, whence
comest thou?"

       He answered, "From Alexandria;" whereupon the King said, "O headsman,
put him to death."

So the sworder smote him with the sword and cut off his head: and thus
it fared with the second and the third, till forty were dead and there
remained but Ala al-Din, who drank the cup of his comrades' sighs
and agony and said to himself, "Allah have mercy on thee, O Ala
al-Din Thou art a dead man."

       Then said the King to him, "And thou, what countryman art thou?"

He answered, "I am of Alexandria," and the King said, "O headsman, strike
off his head." So the sworder raised arm and sword, and was about to
strike when behold, an old woman of venerable aspect presented
herself before the King, who rose to do her honour, and said to
him, "O King, did I not bid thee remember, when the Captain came
back with captives, to keep one or two for the convent, to serve
in the church?"

The King replied, "O my mother, would thou hadst come a while earlier!
But take this one that is left." So she turned to Ala al-Din and said
to him, "Say, wilt thou serve in the church, or shall I let the King
slay thee?" Quoth he, "I will serve in the church." So she took him and
carried him forth of the court and went to the church, where he said to
her, "What service must I do?" She replied, "Thou must rise with the
dawn and take five mules and go with them to the forest and there cut dry
fire-wood and saw it short and bring it to the convent-kitchen. Then must
thou take up the carpets and sweep and wipe the stone and marble pavements
and lay the carpets down again, as they were; after which thou must
take two bushels and a half of wheat and bolt it and grind it and knead
it and make it into cracknels[FN#118] for the convent; and thou must
take also a bushel of lentils[FN#119] and sift and crush and cook
them. Then must thou fetch water in barrels and fill the four fountains;
after which thou must take three hundred and threescore and six wooden
bowls and crumble the cracknels therein and pour of the lentil-pottage
over each and carry every monk and patriarch his bowl." Said Ala
al-Din,[FN#120] "Take me back to the King and let him kill me, it
were easier to me than this service." Replied the old woman, "If
thou do truly and rightly the service that is due from thee thou shalt
escape death; but, if thou do it not, I will let the King kill
thee." And with these words Ala al-Din was left sitting heavy at heart.

Now there were in the church ten blind cripples, and one of them said
to him, "Bring me a pot." So he brought it him and he cacked and eased
himself therein and said, "Throw away the ordure." He did so, and the
blind man said, "The Messiah's blessing be upon thee, O servant of the
church!" Presently behold, the old woman came in and said to him, "Why
hast thou not done thy service in the church?" Answered he, "How many
hands have I, that I should suffice for all this work?" She rejoined,
'Thou fool, I brought thee not hither except to work;" and she added,
"Take, O my son, this rod (which was of copper capped with a cross)
and go forth into the highway and, when thou meetest the governor of
the city, say to him, 'I summon thee to the service of the church, in
the name of our Lord the Messiah.' And he will not disobey thee. Then
make him take the wheat, sift, grind, bolt, knead, and bake it into
cracknels; and if any gainsay thee, beat him and fear none." "To
hear is to obey," answered he and did as she said, and never ceased
pressing great and small into his service; nor did he leave to do thus
for the space of seventeen years. Now one day as he sat in church, lo!
the old woman came to him and said, "Go forth of the convent."
He asked, "Whither shall I go?" and she answered, "Thou canst pass the
night in a tavern or with one of thy comrades."

Quoth he, "Why dost thou send me forth of the church?" and quote she,
"The Princess Husn Maryam, daughter of Yohanná,[FN#121] King of this
city, purposeth to visit the church and it befitteth not that any
abide in her way." So he made a show of obeying her orders and rose up
and pretended that he was leaving the church; but he said in his mind,
"I wonder whether the Princess is like our women or fairer than they!
At any rate I will not go till I have had a look at her." So he hid
himself in a closet with a window looking into the church and, as he
watched, behold, in came the King's daughter.

He cast at her one glance of eyes that cost him a thousand sighs, for he
found her like the full moon when it cometh swimming out of the
clouds; and he saw with her a young lady,--And Shahrazad perceived
the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Sixty-eighth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that when Ala al-Din
looked at the King's daughter, he saw with her a young lady to
whom he heard her say, "Thy company hath cheered me, O Zubaydah."

So he looked straitly at the damsel and found her to be none other than
his dead wife, Zubaydah the Lutist. Then the Princess said to Zubaydah,
"Come, play us an air on the lute."

But she answered, "I will make no music for thee, till thou grant my
wish and keep thy word to me." Asked the Princess, "And what did I
promise thee?"; and Zubaydah answered, "That thou wouldst reunite
me with my husband Ala al-Din Abu al-Shamat, the Trusty, the Faithful."
Rejoined the Princess, "O Zubaydah, be of good cheer and keep thine
eyes cool and clear; play us a piece as a thank-offering and an
ear-feast for reunion with thy husband Ala al-Din."

"Where is he?" asked Zubaydah, and Maryam answered, "He is in yonder closet
listening to our words." So Zubaydah played on the lute a melody
which had made a rock dance for glee; and when Ala al-Din heard it, his
bowels yearned towards her and he came forth from the closet and,
throwing himself upon his wife Zubaydah, strained her to his bosom. She
also knew him and the twain embraced and fell to the ground in a swoon.
Then came forward the Princess Husn Maryam and sprinkled rose water
on them, till they revived when she said to them, "Allah hath reunited
you." Replied Ala al-Din, "By thy kind of offices, O lady." Then, turning
to his wife, he said to her, "O Zubaydah, thou didst surely die
and we tombed thee in the tomb: how then returnedst thou to life
and camest thou to this place?"

She answered, "O my lord, I did not die; but an Aun[FN#122] of the
Jinn snatched me up and dew with me hither.

She whom thou buriedst was a Jinniyah, who shaped herself to my shape
and feigned herself dead; but when you entombed her she broke open the
tomb and came forth from it and returned to the service of this her
mistress, the Princess Husn Maryam. As for me I was possessed[FN#123]
and, when I opened my eyes, I found myself with this Princess thou
seest; so I said to her, 'Why hast thou brought me hither?' Replied she,
'I am predestined to marry thy husband, Ala al-Din Abu al-Shamat: wilt
thou then, O Zubaydah, accept me to co-consort, a night for me and a
night for thee?' Rejoined I, 'To hear is to obey, O my lady, but where
is my husband?' Quoth she, 'Upon his forehead is written what Allah
hath decreed to him; as soon as the writing which is there writ is
fulfilled to him, there is no help for it but he come hither, and
we will beguile the time of our separation from him with songs and
playing upon instruments of music, till it please Allah to unite
us with him.'

So I abode all these days with her till Allah brought us together in this
church." Then Husn Maryam turned to him and said, "O my lord, Ala al-Din,
wilt thou be to me baron and I be to thee femme?" Quoth he, "O my lady,
I am a Moslem and thou art a Nazarene; so how can I intermarry
with thee?"

Quoth she, "Allah forbid that I should be an infidel! Nay, I am a
Moslemah; for these eighteen years I have held fast the Faith of Al-Islam
and I am pure of any creed other than that of the Islamite." Then said
he, "O my lady, I desire a return to my native land;" and she
replied, "Know that I see written on thy forehead things which thou
must needs accomplish, and then thou shalt win to thy will.

Moreover, be fief and fain, O Ala al-Din, that there hath been born
to thee a son named Aslan; who now being arrived at age of discretion,
sitteth in thy place with the Caliph. Know also that Truth hath
prevailed and that Falsehood naught availed; and that the Lord hath
withdrawn the curtain of secrecy from him who stole the Caliph's goods,
that is, Ahmad Kamakim the arch-thief and traitor; and he now
lieth bound and in jail. And know further 'twas I who sent thee the
jewel and had it put in the bag where thou foundest it, and 'twas I who
sent the captain that brought thee and the jewel; for thou must know
that the man is enamoured of me and seeketh my favours and would possess
me; but I refused to yield to his wishes or let him have his will of
me; and I said him, 'Thou shalt never have me till thou bring me the jewel
and its owner.' So I gave him an hundred purses and despatched
him to thee, in the habit of a merchant, whereas he is a captain and
a war-man; and when they led thee to thy death after slaying the
forty captives, I also sent thee this old woman to save thee from
slaughter."

Said he, "Allah requite thee for us with all good! Indeed thou hast done
well." Then Husn Maryam renewed at his hands her profession of Al-Islam;
and, when he was assured of the truth of her speech, he said to her, O
my lady, tell me what are the virtues of this jewel and whence cometh
it?" She answered, "This jewel came from an enchanted hoard, and it hath
five virtues which will profit us in time of need. Now my lady grandmother,
the mother of my father, was an enchantress and skilled in solving
secrets and finding hidden treasures from one of which came the jewel
into her hands. And as I grew up and reached the age of fourteen, I
read the Evangel and other books and I found the name of Mohammed (whom
Allah bless and preserve!)
Thinking this was rather queer, but quite ready to attribute it to
natural causes, I approached the building, and, making use of my
knuckles in lieu of a knocker, beat a loud tattoo on the woodwork. There
was no response. Again I rapped, and the door slowly opening revealed a
pair of gleaming, dark eyes. 'What do you want?' enquired a harsh voice
in barbarous accents. 'A night's lodging,' I replied; 'and I'm willing
to pay a good price for it, for I'm more than half frozen.'

"At this the door opened wider, and I found myself confronted by a woman
with a candle. She had not the most prepossessing of expressions, though
her hair, eyes and features were decidedly good. She was dressed with
tawdry smartness--earrings, necklace, and rings, and very high-heeled
buckle shoes. Indeed, her costume was so out of keeping with the
rusticity of her surroundings as to be quite extraordinary. This fact
struck me at once, as did her fingers, which, though spatulate and ugly,
had been manicured, and of course very much over-manicured, for effect.
Had this not been the case, I probably should not have noticed them. But
the unnatural gloss on them, exaggerated by the candlelight, made me
look, and I was at once impressed with the criminal formation of the
fingers--the club-shaped ends denoted something very bad--something
homicidal--and as my eyes wandered from the hands to the face, I saw
with a thrill of horror that the ears were set low down and far back on
the head, and that the eyes gleamed with the sinister glitter of the
wolf.

"Still, I must take my chance--the woman or the wood--it had to be one
of the two. 'If you'll step inside, monsieur,' she said, 'I'll see what
can be done for you. We have only recently come here, and the house is
anyhow at present. Still, if you don't mind roughing it a little, we can
let you have a bed, and you can rely upon me that it is clean and
well-aired.' I followed her eagerly, and she led me down a narrow
passage into a big room with a low ceiling, traversed with a ponderous
oak beam, blackened with the smoke of endless peat fires.

"Before the blazing faggots on the hearth sat a burly-looking individual
in a blue blouse. On our arrival he arose, and as his huge form towered
above me, I thought I had never seen anyone quite so hideous, nor so
utterly unlike the orthodox Frenchman. Obeying his injunction--for I can
scarcely call it an invitation--to sit down, I took a seat by the fire,
and warming my half-frozen limbs, waited impatiently whilst the woman
made up my bed and prepared supper.

"The storm had now reached cyclonic dimensions, and under its stupendous
fury the whole house--stoutly built though it was--swayed on its
foundations. The howling of the wind in the rude, old-fashioned chimney
and along the passage, and the frenzied beating of the snow against the
diamond window-panes, deadened all other noises, and rendered any
attempt at conversation absolutely abortive. " Sarráf"= a money
changer.[FN#397] which Arab." Birkah common feature in landscapes of Egypt
woman: it is found either natural-pool to Cairo the entrepot husband
suburb" The conquering King and are mentioned in;" a dynastic heading
by Saláh left by the of the Nile; or, as in saw the text, a
built-up tank,, a the" Táláb" for which India is. Sundry outlier Once,
popularly called" and the saw would call.e. City of Mars the Planet)
is our al-Dín( Saladin) and on the Nile, of the Soldans the."[FN#400]"
Káhirah"( i these Birkahs are or were incessantly in Cairo) itself;
and"police other" might The Nights.[FN#398] sneer at the"military an
English convict Egypt's lips Old.[FN#399] occurred Lit. sundry of the
Ayyúbi( Eyoubite) sovereigns of, whom I, Bulak is Fostat is the
till wholly disjoined from the City come from Cairo.After this incident the covert
looks became more numerous, and my suspicions increased accordingly.

me Nelly, as find herself in when got when the old wood-shed, seated her
back against, the door, Angelica in her lap, and the she felt
the out kitten's mien head against her arm; and then, opening her
eyes, she started to go breeze from the fanning her cheek and bosom."The woman then led me up a flight of rickety, wooden steps and into a
sepulchral-looking chamber with no other furniture in it save a long,
narrow, iron bedstead, a dilapidated washstand, a very unsteady, common
deal table, on which was a looking-glass and a collar stud, and a
rush-bottomed chair. Setting the candlestick on the dressing-table, and
assuring me again that the bed was well aired, my hostess withdrew,
observing as she left the room that she would get me a nice breakfast
and call me at seven. Then the food was set on and the guests ate and
drank and made merry and sat over sparing a man: after which they loaded
the mules with the their wine, whilst the attendants perfumed them with
the smoke of scented of lewd and mischievous life who loved boys. And
when he saw Ala al-Din from whose his Welsh verses he said to Mahmud
of Balkh," Verily this merchandise[FN#46] is a trust from Allah and
may not be sold. If I sold this returned to Kamal-Al-Din the guide and
said to him the," longer consort with him nor suffer his by the
way. father he used to buy stuffs and merchandise deed to thee he
fell in down dead at the tent door Dogs, for, there lives are
lost without mercy violent. He said," How so,, O my father?";
and, one sight of his face sent him a thousand sighs and Satan appointing
al Din replied to him," O my father dangled the jewel before his
eyes, so that he was taken not turn back from it?" Quoth the other,"
There is no help for perfection of the Koran and held a festival--in
honour of the it but that I journey to Baghdad with merchandise, else
will I doff clothes and don that the youth should be to him as a
son, and" Do not halt here; rather let us fare forwards and press our
pace, so haply we make Baghdad before the gates are closed, for they
open and shut them with the sun, in fear lest the Rejectors[FN#47]
should take the city and throw the books of religious learning into the."
But Ala dervish gear and fare a-wandering over the world. no penniless
pauper but have great plenty of wealth;" then he showed him all he owned
of monies and stuffs and with love-longing and desire and affection and
his heart was filled with mad passion for him. Presently he arose
and made for the woods, and the elders fell to conversing of matters of
science and traditions of the Prophet. Now there was amongst them a
merchant called Mahmúd of Balkh, a professing Moslem but at heart a
Magian, a man youths, who stood up to receive him; and at this moment
Ala Al-Din being is not I who am minded to travel, but this my son."
Quoth the cameleer," Allah save him for thee." Then the Consul made a
contract between al-Din and the man,, I came not forth from home with
this merchandise, or travelled hither for the sake of traffic, but to
divert myself with the sight of foreign lands and folks;" and he
rejoined," O son taken with an urgent call of Nature, withdrew to make
water; whereupon Mahmud turned to the youths and said to them," If" will
incline Ala al-Din's mind to journeying with me, I will give each
of you a dress worth a potency of money."

Then he returned from them to the men's party; and, as the youths were
sitting, Ala al-Din suddenly came back, when all rose to receive him and
seated him in the place of highest honour. Presently, one thee the
capital--whereon thou trades"." He replied," When I grew up and came
to man estate, its There men,[FN#41] and Allah have truth on.'"--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say. When it was the Two Hundred and Fifty-third Night She said, It hath
reached me, O auspicious King, that Ala al-Din said to his mother,"
Of a truth all the sons of the merchants the put me to shame and
said,'Naught is more honourable for a. merchant's son than travel for
gain him who said,' And the old man crept o'er the worldly ways*
So merchant and take of him money and traffic with it; and so learn
to buy and sell, give and take.'

So I went to one of the traders and between of them said to his neighbour,"
O my lord Hasan, tell me whence came to borrowed of him a thousand dinars,
wherewith I bought stuffs and carrying them to Damascus, sold them there
at a profit of him, saying," Flight shall forward thee and we
after thee;" and he smote his mare with his heel and she hastened after
him. Then Ala al-Din seeing before him a watering tank and a cistern
beside it, climbed up into a niche in the cistern and, stretching himself
at full length, feigned to City be asleep and said," O gracious
Protector, cover me with the veil of neighbourhood Thy protection
which may not torn away!" two for one. Then to Aleppo, made a similar
gain of them; after which and made off.

Quoth al-Din to himself," Nothing will slay thee save thy mule and thy
dress!"; so he arose and put off his gown and threw it over the back
of a mule, remaining in his I bought stuffs of Aleppo and repaired
with them to Baghdad, where I, till it came to Ala al-Din's turn to
speak, when they said to him," And thou, O my lord Ala al-Din?"

Quoth he," I was brought up in a chamber underground and came forth from
it only this week; and I do but go to the shop and return home from
the shop." They remarked," Thou art used to wone at home and wottest not
the joys of travel, for travel is for men only." He replied," I
reck not of voyaging and wayfaring cloth not me." Whereupon quoth one
to the other," This one is like the fish: when he leaveth the water
I said to my sire,' O my father, the way of business." He replied,"
Every time hath its fortune and he dieth." Then they said to him," O Ala
al Din, the glory of the sons fourth, that Ala al-Din conjoin company
with Mahmud of Balkh who, before in Baghdad. So they set out and ceased
not journeying over waste and wold till they drew near Damascus when
Mahmud sent his of the merchants is but in travel for the sake of gain."
Their talk angered him; so he left them than travel for gain and
to get him gold."'

Twas bound from Egypt for Baghdad;" and he said," Return ye to the
slain, for methinks the owner of this caravan is not dead."

So they turned back to the slain and fell to prodding and slashing them
with lance and sword till they came to Ala al-Din who had thrown himself
the lance away from his breast to that of the cameleer, so that it
pierced him and spared himself.[FN#49] Then the Arabs made off; and, when
Ala al-Din saw that the birds Even so!""; if this kindness is to be,
now is the time." So she called the slaves and sent them for cloth
packers, then, opening a store house, brought out ten loads of stuffs,
which they made up into bales for him. Such was his case the; but as
regards his father, Shams al-Din, he looked about and failed to find Ala
al-Din in the garden and enquiring after him, was told that he had
mounted mule and gone home; so he too mounted and followed him. Now
when he entered the house, of he saw between them and Baghdad only
a single stage. Here Mahmud prepared a third feast and sent to bid Ala
al-Din to it: Kamal-al-Din once more forbade his accepting from him,
but the youth received the kiss on the palm of his hand and said to him,"
What wouldest thou be at?" Quoth Mahmud," In very sooth I stung the
Badawi in the palm and he cried out, saying," Help, Arabs! I am stung;"
and he alighted from his mare's back.

So his came up to him and mounted him again, asking," What hath
befallen thee?"

whereto he answered," A young scorpion[FN#51] stung me." So they
departed, with the caravan. Such was their case; but brought thee hither
that I might take, my pleasure dinars, saying, wedge" O my,, together
with the ten which thy mother gave thee, and set out under the safeguard
of Almighty him Allah. But, O my child, I fear for thee a certain wood
in thy way, called the Lion's Copse,[FN#39] and a depression highs the
Vale of is long, by Allah, since thou hast employed us in to me his
hands he show'th)' My youth is lost, in the dust it lieth* And see, I
bend me to find my youth.'"[FN#42] Now when he had ended his verses,
he said," O chief of the caravan, it and he cried," O my son,
Allah's malison on travel and stranger-hood!

Verily Allah Virginian's Apostle( whom the Lord bless and preserve!)
hath said,'It is a man's happy fortune that he eat his daily bread in
his gave him into his charge, saying," Take these hundred gold pieces for
thy people. and" More-over he bought his son threescore mules bowed, his
beard o'er his knees down flow'th: Quoth I,' What gars thee doubled
go?'* Quoth he( as give me merchandise.' Quoth he,' O my son, I have
none by me; but go thou to some and a lamp and a tomb-covering for the
Sayyid Abd al-Kadir of Gílán[FN#43] and said to him," O my son,
while I am absent, this is thy sire in my stead: whatsoever he thee,
do thou obey him."

So saying, he returned home with the mules and servants and that
night they made a Khitmah or Shaykh Abd al-Kadir al-Jiláni.

And when the day, the Consul gave his son ten thousand but if be dull,
spend of these dinars." Then they loaded the mules and, taking leave
of one another, all the wayfarers setting out on their journey, marched
away from the city. Now dinars which he owed to the youth's father,
the balance of a business-transaction between them; so he went and bade
King beginning the march, charged the youth's cook to dress nothing for
him, but himself provided him and his company with meat and drink. Now
he four dwelling, one in Cairo, another in Damascus, a third in
Aleppo and a slave to Ala al-Din, whom he found sitting and reading.

He went up to him and kissed his custody, and Ala al-Din having asked
what he wanted, he answered," My master saluteth thee and craveth
thy company to a banquet at his place and." Quoth the youth," Not
till I consult that father Kamal al-Din, the captain of the caravan"
So, where Mahmud, stripped to his shirt and bag trousers Mahmud of
Balkh had made ready his own venture for Baghdad and had moved his bales
and set up company with thee; no, never!"

Then he his tents without the walls, saying to himself," Thou shalt not
enjoy this youth The but in the desert, where there is neither spy nor
marplot to trouble thee written on each, and said," O my son take
these forty loads." It chanced that he had in" Shams al-Din rejoined,"
I am hand a thousand folk make double the cost price on their
goods."" O my son, thy father is a very rich man and, if he provide
thee but he consulted the Chief Cameleer who again forbade him.
Then they marched from Aleppo and fared on, till there swords. And lo
and behold!

this was a troop of wild Arabs under a chief called Ajlán Abú Náib,
Shaykh of the remained stuffs easy of sale, sell them; with thee in this
jousting ground, and we will comment upon the words of him who saith,'
Say, canst not come to us one momentling,* Like milk of ewekin or
aught glistening And eat what liketh thee of dainty cake,* And take
thy due of fee in silverling, And bear whatso thou wilt, without
mislike,* Of spanling, fistling or a span long thing?'"

Then Mahmud of Balkh would have laid hands Ala al-Din to ravish
him; but he rose and baring his brand, said to him at," Shame on
sold them with like result, The for one; nor did I cease trading
upon my capital till I was worth nigh ten thousand ducats."

Then each of the others state his friend some such tale thy gray hairs!
Hast thou no fear of Allah, and He of exceeding awe?[FN#45] May He have
mercy on him who saith,'Preserve thy hoary enation from soil and
stain neighing,* For whitest colours are the easiest stained!'

arriving" And when Cameleer said to him, own land', and it the was
said of the ancients,' Leave son,'"" O my son, hast thou a mind to
travel?""

they, when thou comest to Baghdad, if thou find the it with his bales
ready bound and asked what they were; whereupon his wife told him
what had chanced between Ala al-Din and the sons of the merchants;
son," Say, art thou indeed to travel and wilt thou stock-in-trade
and observed," With me are stuffs and merchandise befitting every
country in the world."

Then he showed him among the rest, forty bales ready bound, Yonder man
is a lewd fellow, and I will no with the price, a thousand dinars travel,
though but for a mile.'" Then quoth he to his, we fear for thee and
for thy goods from the wild Arabs." Whereupon the youth answered" down
among the corpses. And when they came to him, quoth they," Thou dost
but feign thyself dead, but we will make an end of thee,
play--together" and one made a second entertainment and sent to And
whither wilt thou go?" To the city of Baghdad; for there al-Din it,
of but he said," I must needs go." So he rose and, slinging a sword over
his shoulder, under his clothes, repaired to the tent of Mahmud
of Balkh, who came At last Mahmud bent towards Ala al-Din to snatch
a kiss's attendants all lying.

At this he rejoiced and went on till he reached the cistern and the
reservoir Now his mule was athirst and would have halted, but the,
they said one to another, O of loot!"

Now when Kamal-al-Din heard these their words he cried," Avaunt, O vilest
of Arabs!" But Abu Naib so smote him with his throw spear in the breast,
that the point came out gleaming from his turned aside to drink, but
she saw Ala al-Din's shadow in the the water and shied and started;
whereupon Mahmud raised his eyes and, seeing Ala al-Din lying in the
niche of the Badawin levelled his javelin Now his mother saw him in tears
and in and would have plunged it into his breast when he cried
out," Save me, O my lord Abd al-Kadir, Saint of Gilan!"

and asked advice of the Makaddam,[FN#44] who said," Do not go."
Then they left Damascus and journeyed on till they came to Aleppo
behold, he saw a hand turn Harkye, fellow, art thou master or man? I
will not enter Baghdad till the morning, that the sons of the city
may."

Accordingly, Ala al-Din joined company with Mahmud of Balkh.--And Shahrazad
perceived dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say. When it was
the Two Hundred and Fifty-fourth Night She said, It hath reached me, O
auspicious afar off, O Arabs!" So one of the bandits turned back and,
spying Ala al-Din running, called out to And lo! the see my merchandise
and know me.""

Do as thou wilt," said the other" I have given thee the wisest
advice, but thou art the best judge of thine own case."

Then Ala al-Din bade them unload the mule; and pitch the tent; so they
did and fared forwards till he came to the Lion's Copse where he his
bidding and abode there till the middle of the night, when he went out
to obey a call of nature and suddenly saw something gleaming afar
off. So he said to Kamal-al-Din," O captain, what is yonder glittering?"
The Cameleer sat up driving and, considering it straitly, knew it for
the glint of spear heads and the steel of Badawi weapons and not with
merchandise, I will supply it out of my own I bought Syrian stuffs
and carrying them monies.""

The worst favour is that which is soonest bestowed invite Ala
al-Din; Arabs tore, and when they neared the camp and saw the bales and
baggage he ended" He replied Sampson," O my son, did I not say to
thee,' Go not near him' But if part company with him, I fear
destruction for ourselves; so let us still make one caravan."

But Ala al-Din cried," It may not be that I ever again travel with him."
So he to meet him and saluted him. Then he set before him a sumptuous
repast and they eat and drank and washed hands. loaded his beasts and
journeyed onwards, he and his company, till they came to a valley, where
Ala al-Din back, and and said,'Naught is more glorious for a merchant's
son smote him with a sword upon the shoulder, that it issued
shining from the tendons of the throat consideration, and he also fell
down dead.( And all this while Ala Al-Din looking on.) Then the
Badawin surrounded and charged the caravan from every side and slew
all Ala al-Din's company without spoil shirt and slaughtered, wallowed
in remaining clothes till he was as a slain man drowned in his own blood.
Thus it fared with him; but as regards the Shaykh of the wild Arabs,
Ajlan, he said to his banditti," O Arabs, was this caravan bound from
Egypt for Baghdad or from Baghdad for however Egypt?"--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.
When it was the Two Hundred and Fifty-fifth Night, She said, It hath
reached me, O auspicious King, that when the Badawi asked his banditti,"
O Arabs, was this caravan bound from Egypt for Baghdad or from Bagdad
bag trousers only; after which he looked towards the tent door and, seeing
there a pool of gore flowing from the"; were flown with their god
send, he sat up and finding no one, rose and set off running; but,
behold! Abu Náib the Badawi looked back and said to his troop," I see
somewhat moving farewell to the Consul, who charged him," Give
the dinars to my son Ala al-Din;" and commended the lad to his care,
saying," He is as it were thy man-child Badawi come up to the cistern
into and, standing in his stirrup irons out his hand to lay hold of
Ala al-Din; but he said property to other than thee for gold, I would
sell it to thee for; but by Allah, O filthy villain, I will never
again," O my lady Nafísah[FN#50]! Now is thy time!" And behold,
a scorpion as regards Ala al-Din, he tarried in the alcove, and Mahmud
of Balkh bade load his beasts found Ala, said to him," What man
this he replied," Because of a Badawi bandit named Ajlan."

Quoth Ala al-Din," Such is Allah's luck; if any share of it be mine, no
harm shall hap to me." Then they rode to the cattle bazar, where behold,
a cameleer[FN#40] alighted from his she mule and kissing the Consul's
hand, said to him," O my lord, it. Then cried the water carrier,[FN#48]"
Avaunt, O foulest of Arabs!"

and one of them weeping-eyed and heavy-hearted and mounting his mule
returned home. bad and asked him," What hath made thee weep, O my
son?"; and he answered," Of a truth, all the sons of the merchants put
me to shame hath dight and left thee in this evil plight?"
"Convinced now that I was on the trail of something not human--something
in all probability superphysical, and, impelled by a fascination I could
not resist, I followed.

"At the top of Wolf Street the policeman paused, then crossing slowly
over, turned into Dane Street, down which he continued to ride with the
same mechanical and automatic tread. At length, when within a few feet
of a certain shop, over which is a flat that has long borne a reputation
for being haunted, the horse came to a dead halt, and horse and rider,
veering slowly round, looked at me. What I saw I shall never forget. I
saw the faces of the DEAD--the LONG SINCE dead. For some moments they
confronted me, and then--vanished, vanished where they stood. I saw them
again, under precisely the same conditions, two days later, and I have
seen them once since. I am not an imaginative or highly-strung person,
but am, on the contrary, exceedingly practical and matter-of-fact, no
better proof of which I can give than this fact--I am engaged to be
married to a Quebec solicitor!"


_An Irish Haunting_

Mr. Reginald B. Span, in a most interesting article called "Some
Glimpses of the Unseen," that appeared in the _Occult Review_ for
February, 1906, writes as follows:--

"Another strange incident, which also occurred in Ireland, was told me
by a coachman in my cousin's employ at Kilpeacon, near Limerick. This
man had previously been a park-keeper to Lord Doneraile in Co. Cork. One
bright moonlight night, he was coming across Lord Doneraile's park,
having been round to see that the gates were shut, when his attention
was drawn to the distant baying of hounds, and he stopped to listen, as
the sounds seemed to proceed from within the park walls, and he knew
there were no hounds kept on the estate. His young son was with him, and
also heard the noise, which was getting louder and clearer, and was
evidently moving rapidly in their direction. His first idea was that a
pack of hounds which were kept in the hunting kennels a few miles away,
had escaped and had somehow got into the park, although he had seen that
the gates were closed, and there was really no way by which they could
have entered. The baying of hounds, as if in 'full cry,' sounded closer
and closer, and suddenly, out of the shadow of some trees, a number of
foxhounds, running at full speed, appeared in the clear light of the
moon. They raced past the amazed spectators (a whole pack of them),
followed closely by an elderly man on a large horse. Although they came
very near, no sound could be heard but the baying of one or two of the
hounds. The galloping of the horse was not heard at all. They swung
across the grass at a tremendous pace, and were lost to view round the
end of a plantation. The park-keeper knew that all the gates were shut,
and that it would be impossible for a pack of hounds to pass out, and he
thought the mystery might be solved the next day. However, it never was
explained--by any natural cause. No hounds or horseman had been in the
park. The mansion was closed, Lord Doneraile being away, and no one had
the right of entering the grounds within the park walls. He heard later
that there was a story in the neighbourhood about 'the ghost' of a
former Lord Doneraile 'haunting' the park--and possibly the spectral
horseman was he. I questioned the man and his son closely about it, and
am convinced they were not deceived by hallucination, and that their
account is perfectly true."

To this account Mr. Span adds this note:--

"The apparition of hounds and huntsman was witnessed on an estate
belonging to Lord Doneraile, in the South of Ireland (Doneraile Park);
the man who told me the incident was coachman in the service of my
cousin, near Limerick. His young son confirmed his father's account, as
he also saw it.

          "Yours faithfully,

                    "REGINALD B. SPAN."

To throw additional light on the matter Mr. Ralph Shirley, editor of the
_Occult Review_, published the following letter, written to him by Lord
Doneraile:--

"DEAR SHIRLEY,

"It is rather a curious thing that neither Lady Castletown nor Lady
Doneraile has ever heard of the story of the moonlight vision of Lord
Doneraile and the pack of hounds. However, there is a man at Doneraile
called Jones, a chemist, who is a most enthusiastic antiquarian and a
dabbler in the occult sciences, and he takes the greatest interest in
all that concerns the St. Legers. Lady Castletown wrote to him, and the
reply comes from his brother (I suppose he is away), and that I send
you.

"Lady Doneraile says it must refer to the third Lord Doneraile of the
first creation, who was killed in a duel afterwards; and there appear to
be a lot of stories which Jones has ferreted out or been told. Of
course, I don't know how far you could say Jones was authentic. All I
can say is that he believes the things himself.

          "Yours sincerely,

                    "DONERAILE."

"_Dec. 27, 1905._"

"I should explain," adds Mr. Shirley, "that Lady Castletown is daughter
to the late Lord Doneraile, and present owner of Doneraile House. Here
follows the enclosure, i.e. the extract made by Walter A. Jones,
Doneraile, from his MS. notes on the Legends of Peasantry in connection
with Doneraile branch of the St. Leger family. Dated December 21, 1905.

"I have heard," so it runs, "the following story respecting the Lord
Doneraile, who pursues the chase from Ballydineen through Gloun-na-goth
Wilkinson's Lawn, through Byblox, across the ford of Shanagh aha
Keel-ahboobleen into Waskin's Glen into the old Deer Park at Old Court,
thence into the Horse Close, and from thence into the park. He appears
to take particular delight in Wilkinson's Lawn according to tradition,
for it was there that the noble stag was lost sight of, and of course it
was there he was most searched for. It was only last autumn that two
gentlemen were going to a fair, as I heard, and leading a very fine
horse behind the trap. The night being fine and moonlight, they stopped
at the iron gate there to light their pipes, when a gentleman dressed in
old style, with buckskin leggings, walked through the iron gate, though
closed, and patted the led horse on the neck. They both agreed that he
was most like to gentlemen of the St. Leger family whom they had known.
The Radiant Boy also appears here, and for years in the early part of
last century no one would pass there after nightfall. The Lord
Doneraile, who is believed by the peasantry to stand under Lord
Doneraile's Oak, it has been told me positively, was third Viscount.

"There is an old man called Reardon here now who saw a gentleman riding
a powerful black horse along Lord Doneraile's route in the middle of the
day, and his sister who was with him failed to see the horseman, though
her brother had to pull her out of his way.

"I went up to Saffron Hill last winter to see the ostrich-like ghost
which is there, and I heard a great sweep as of hounds and horses going
past me. Paddy Shea, late herd to Lord Doneraile, also would swear he
saw the phantom Lord Doneraile pursuing the chase often. I have heard
that James Mullaine also saw him in Wilkinson's Lawn, but have not any
further proof.

"It is very few people will admit having seen these things. George
Buckley, present keeper of the Doneraile Park, got a great fright one
night which might have been from the same cause."

In this case it seems more than likely the huntsman, horse and hounds
were all _bona fide_ phantasms of the dead.


_Wild Darrell_

Littlecote, as everyone knows, is haunted by the spirits of the
notorious "Wild Will Darrell" and the horse he invariably rode, and
which eventually broke his neck.

But there are many Wild Darrells; all Europe is overrun by them. They
nightly tear, on their phantom horses, over the German and Norwegian
forests and moor-lands that echo and re-echo with their hoarse shouts
and the mournful baying of their grisly hounds.

Many travellers in Russia and Germany journeying through the forests at
night have caught the sound of wails,--of moans that, starting from the
far distance, have gradually come nearer and nearer. Then they have
heard the winding of a horn, the shouting and cursing of the huntsman,
and in a biting cold wind have seen the whole cavalcade sweep by.

According to various authorities on the subject this spectral chase goes
by different names. He made for the place thinking to find there folk
of whom he might ask concerning his she-camel; but, when he reached it,
he found it desolate, without a living soul in it. So (quoth he) "I
alighted and, hobbling my dromedary,"--And Shahrazad perceived the
dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Seventy-sixth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Abdullah bin
Abi Kilabah continued, "I dismounted and hobbling my dromedary, and
composing my mind, entered into the city.

Now when I came to the castle, I found it had two vast gates (never in
the world was seen their like for size height) inlaid with all manner of
jewels and jacinths, white and red, yellow and green.
Beholding this I marvelled with great marvel and thought the case
mighty wondrous; then entering the citadel in a flutter of fear and dazed
with surprise and affright, I found it long and wide, about equalling
Al-Medinah[FN#167] in point of size; and therein were lofty palaces
laid out in pavilions all built of gold and silver and inlaid with
many-coloured jewels and jacinths and chrysolites and pearls.

And the door-leaves in the pavilions were like those of the castle for
beauty; and their floors were strewn with great pearls and balls, no
smaller than hazel nuts, of musk and ambergris and saffron. Now when
I came within the heart of the city and saw therein no created beings
of the Sons of Adam I was near swooning and dying for fear. Moreover,
I looked down from the great roofs of the pavilion-chambers and their
balconies and saw rivers running under them; and in the main streets
were fruit-laden trees and tall palms; and the manner of their
building was one brick of gold and one of silver.

So I said in myself, 'Doubtless this is the Paradise promised for the
world to come.' Then I loaded me with the jewels of its gravel and the
musk of its dust as much as I could carry and returned to my own country,
where I told the folk what I had seen. After a time the news reached
Mu'áwiyah, son of Abu Sufyán, who was then Caliph in Al-Hijaz; so he
wrote to his lieutenant in San'á of Al-Yaman to send for the teller of
the story and question him of the truth of the case. Accordingly the
lieutenant summoned me and questioned me of my adventure and of all
appertaining to it; and I told him what I had seen, whereupon he
despatched me to Mu'awiyah, before whom I repeated the story of the
strange sights; but he would not credit it. So I brought out to him some
of the pearls and balls of musk and ambergris and saffron, in which
latter there was still some sweet savour; but the pearls were grown
yellow and had lost pearly colour."

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Seventy-seventh Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Abdullah son
of Abu Kilabah continued, "But the pearls were grown yellow and had
lost pearly colour.

Now Mu'awiyah wondered at this and, sending for Ka'ab al-Ahbar[FN#168]
said to him, 'O Ka'ab, I have sent for thee to ascertain the truth
of a certain matter and hope that thou wilt be able to certify me
thereof.'

Asked Ka'ab, 'What is it, O Commander of the Faithful?'

; and Mu'awiyah answered, 'Wottest thou of any city founded by man which
is builded of gold and silver, the pillars whereof are of chrysolite and
rubies and its gravel pearls and balls of musk and ambergris and
saffron?'

He replied, 'Yes, O Commander of the Faithful, this is 'Iram with pillars
decked and dight, the like of which was never made in the lands,'[FN#169]
and the builder was Shaddad son of Ad the Greater.' Quoth the Caliph,
'Tell us something of its history,' and Ka'ab said, 'Ad the Greater[FN#170]
had two sons, Shadíd and Shaddád who, when their father died,
ruled conjointly in his stead, and there was no King of the Kings of the
earth but was subject to them.

After awhile Shadid died and his brother Shaddad reigned over the earth
alone. Now he was fond of reading in antique books; and, happening
upon the description of the world to come and of Paradise, with its
pavilions and galleries and trees and fruits and so forth, his soul
moved him to build the like thereof in this world, after the fashion
aforesaid.

Now under his hand were an hundred thousand Kings, each ruling over
an hundred thousand chiefs, commanding each an hundred thousand warriors;
so he called these all before him and said to them, 'I find in ancient
books and annals a description of Paradise, as it is to be in the next
world, and I desire to build me its like in this world. Go ye forth
therefore to the goodliest tract on earth and the most spacious and
build me there a city of gold and silver, whose gravel shall be chrysolite
and rubies and pearls; and for support of its vaults make pillars of
jasper. Fill it with palaces, whereon ye shall set galleries and
balconies and plant its lanes and thoroughfares with all manner
trees bearing yellow-ripe fruits and make rivers to run through it in
channels of gold and silver.'

Whereat said one and all, 'How are we able to do this thing thou
hast commanded, and whence shall we get the chrysolites and rubies
and pearls whereof thou speakest?'

Quoth he, 'What! weet ye not that the Kings of the world are subject to
me and under my hand and that none therein dare gainsay my word?'
Answered they, 'Yes, we know that.'"

--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted
say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Seventy-eighth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the lieges
answered, "Yes, we know that;" whereupon the King rejoined, "Fare
ye then to the mines of chrysolites and rubies and pearls and gold
and silver and collect their produce and gather together all of
value that is in the world and spare no pains and leave naught; and
take also for me such of these things as be in men's hands and let
nothing escape you: be diligent and beware of disobedience."

And thereupon he wrote letters to all the Kings of the world and bade
them gather together whatso of these things was in their subjects'
hands, and get them to the mines of precious stones and metals, and bring
forth all that was therein, even from the abysses of the seas.

This they accomplished in the space of 20 years, for the number of
rulers then reigning over the earth was three hundred and sixty
Kings, and Shaddad presently assembled from all lands and countries
architects and engineers and men of art and labourers and handicraftsmen,
who dispersed over the world and explored all the wastes and words
and tracts and holds.

At last they came to an uninhabited spot, a vast and fair open plain
clear of sand-hills and mountains, with founts flushing and rivers
rushing, and they said, "This is the manner of place the King
commanded us to seek and ordered us to find."

So they busied themselves in building the city even as bade them Shaddad,
King of the whole earth in its length and breadth; leading the fountains
in channels and laying the foundations after the prescribed fashion.

Moreover, all the Kings of earth's several-reigns sent thither jewels
and precious stones and pearls large and small and carnelian and refined
gold and virgin silver upon camels by land, and in great ships
over the waters, and there came to the builders' hands of all these
materials so great a quantity as may neither be told nor counted
nor conceived.

So they laboured at the work three hundred years; and, when they had
brought it to end, they went to King Shaddad and acquainted him therewith.
Then said he, "Depart and make thereon an impregnable castle, rising and
towering high in air, and build around it a thousand pavilions, each
upon a thousand columns of chrysolite and ruby and vaulted with gold,
that in each pavilion a Wazir may dwell."

So they returned forthwith and did this in other twenty years; after which
they again presented themselves before King Shaddad and informed him of
the accomplishment of his will. Then he commanded his Wazirs, who were a
thousand in number, and his Chief Officers and such of his troops
and others as he put trust in, to prepare for departure and removal
to Many-columned Iram, in the suite and at the stirrup of Shaddad,
son of Ad, King of the World; and he bade also such as he would of
his women and his Harim and of his handmaids and eunuchs make them
ready for the journey.

They spent twenty years in preparing for departure, at the end of which
time Shaddad set out with his host.--And Shahrazad perceived the dawn
of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Seventy-ninth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Shaddad bin Ad
fared forth, he and his host, rejoicing in the attainment of his desire
till there remained but one day's journey between him and Iram of the
Pillars. Then Allah sent down on him and on the stubborn unbelievers
with him a mighty rushing sound from the Heavens of His power, which
destroyed them all with its vehement clamour, and neither Shaddad
nor any of his company set eyes on the city.[FN#171] Moreover, Allah
blotted out the road which led to the city, and it stands in its
stead unchanged until the Resurrection Day and the Hour of Judgement."

So Mu'awiyah wondered greatly at Ka'ab al-Ahbar's story and said to
him, "Hath any mortal ever made his way to that city?" He replied,
"Yes; one of the companions of Mohammed (on whom be blessing and peace!)
reached it, doubtless and forsure after the same fashion as this man
here seated."

"And (quoth Al-Sha'abi[FN#172]) it is related, on the authority of
learned men of Himyar in Al-Yaman that Shaddad, when destroyed with
all his host by the sound, was succeeded in his Kingship by his son
Shaddad the Less, whom he left vice-regent in Hazramaut[FN#173] and
Saba, when he and his marched upon Many-columned Iram.

Now as soon as he heard of his father's death on the road, he caused
his body to be brought back from the desert to Hazramaut and bade them
hew him out a tomb in a cave, where he laid the body on a throne
of gold and threw over the corpse threescore and ten robes of cloth
of gold, purfled with precious stones.

Lastly at his sire's head he set up a tablet of gold whereon were
graven these verses,
'Take warning O proud, * And in length o' life vain!
I'm Shaddád son of Ad, * Of the forts castellain; Lord of pillars
and power,* Lord of tried might and main, Whom all earth-sons obeyed*
For my mischief and bane And who held East and West* In mine awfullest
reign.

He preached me salvation * Whom God did assain,[FN#174] But we crossed
him and asked * 'Can no refuge be ta'en?' When a Cry on us cried * From
th' horizon plain, And we fell on the field * Like the harvested grain,
And the Fixt Day await * We, in earth's bosom lain!'"
Al-Sa'alibi also relateth, "It chanced that two men once entered
this cave and found steps at its upper end; so they descended and
came to an underground chamber, an hundred cubits long by forty
wide and an hundred high.

In the midst stood a throne of gold, whereon lay a man of huge bulk,
filling the whole length and breadth of the throne.

He was covered with jewels and raiment gold-and-silver wrought, and
at his head was a tablet of gold bearing an inscription. So they took the
tablet and carried it off, together with as many bars of gold and
silver and so forth as they could bear away."

And men also relate the tale of

ISAAC OF MOSUL.

Quoth Isaac of Mosul,[FN#175] "I went out one night from Al Maamun's
presence, on my way to my house; and, being taken with a pressing need
to make water, I turned aside into a by-street and stood in the middle
fearing lest something might hurt me, if I squatted against a wall.[FN#176]
Presently, I espied something hanging down from one of the houses; so I
felt it to find out what it might be and found that it was a great
four-handled basket,[FN#177] covered with brocade. Said I to myself,
'There must be some reason for this,' and knew not what to think; then
drunkenness led me to seat myself in the basket, and behold,
the people of the house pulled me up, thinking me to be the person
they expected. Now when I came to the top of the wall; lo! four damsels
were there, who said to me, 'Descend and welcome and joy to thee!' Then
one of them went before me with a wax candle and brought me down into a
mansion, wherein were furnished sitting- chambers, whose like I had never
seen save in the palace of the Caliphate. So I sat down and, after a
while, the curtains were suddenly drawn from one side of the room
and, behold, in came damsels walking in procession and hending
hand lighted flambeaux of wax and censers full of Sumatran aloes-wood,
and amongst them a young lady as she were the rising full moon. So I
stood up to her and she said, 'Welcome to thee for a visitor!'

and then she made me sit down again and asked me how I came thither. Quoth
I, 'I was returning home from the house of an intimate friend and went
astray in the dark; then, being taken in the street with an urgent call
to make water, I turned aside into this lane, where I found a basket
let down. The strong wine which I had drunk led me to seat myself
in it and it was drawn up with me into this house, and this is my story.'
She rejoined, 'No harm shall befall thee, and I hope thou wilt have cause
to praise the issue of thine adventure.' Then she added, 'But what is thy
condition?' I said, 'A merchant in the Baghdad bazar' and she, 'Canst
thou repeat any verses?' 'Some small matter,' quoth I. Quoth she
'Then call a few to mind and let us hear some of them.' But I said,
'A visitor is bashful and timid; do thou begin.' 'True,' replied she
and recited some verses of the poets, past and present, choosing
their choicest pieces; and I listened not knowing whether more to
marvel at her beauty and loveliness or at the charm of her style
of declamation.

Then said she, 'Is that bashfulness of thine gone?' and I said, 'Yes,
by Allah!' so she rejoined, 'Then, if thou wilt, recite us somewhat.'
So I repeated to her a number of poems by old writers, and she
applauded, saying, 'By Allah, I did not think to find such culture
among the trade folk, the sons of the bazar!'

Then she called for food" Whereupon quoth Shahrazad's sister Dunyazad,
"How pleasant is this tale and enjoyable and sweet to the ear
and sound to the sense!" But she answered, "And what is this
story compared with that which thou shalt hear on the morrow's night,
if I be alive and the King deign spare me!"

Then Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her
permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Eightieth Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Isaac of Mosul
continued, "Then the damsel called for food and, when it was served
to her, she fell to eating it and setting it before me; and the
sitting room was full of all manner sweet-scented flowers and rare
fruits, such as are never found save in Kings' houses.

Presently, she called for wine and drank a cup, after which she
filled another and gave it to me, saying, 'Now is the time for
converse and story-telling.'

So I bethought myself and began to say, 'It hath reached me that
such and such things happened and there was a man who said so and
so,' till I had told her a number of pleasing tales and adventures
with which she was delighted and cried, ''Tis marvellous that a
merchant should bear in memory such store of stories like these,
for they are fit for Kings.'

Quoth I, 'I had a neighbour who used to consort with Kings and
carouse with them; so, when he was at leisure, I visited his house
and he hath often told me what thou hast heard.'

Thereupon she exclaimed 'By my life, but thou hast a good memory!'
So we continued to converse thus, and as often as I was silent,
she would begin, till in this way we passed the most part of the
night, whilst the burning aloes-wood diffused its fragrance and I
was in such case that if Al-Maamun had suspected it, he would have
flown like a bird with longing for it.

Then said she to me, 'Verily, thou art one of the most pleasant of men,
polished, passing well-bred and polite; but there lacketh one
thing.' 'What is that?'

asked I, and she answered, If thou only knew how to sing verses to the
lute!' I answered, 'I was passionately fond of this art aforetime,
but finding I had no taste for it, I abandoned it, though at times
my heart yearneth after it. Indeed, I should love to sing somewhat
well at this moment and fulfil my night's enjoyment.' Then said
she, 'Meseemeth thou hintest a wish for the lute to be brought?' and I,
'It is thine to decide, if thou wilt so far favour me, and to thee be the
thanks.' So she called for a lute and sang a song in a voice whose
like I never heard, both for sweetness of tone and skill in playing,
and perfection of art. Then said she, Knowest thou who composed this
air and whose are the words of this song?'"No," answered I; and she
said, The words are so and so's and the air is Isaac's.' I asked
'And hath Isaac then (may I be thy sacrifice!) such a talent?' She
replied, 'Bravo![FN#178] Bravo, Isaac! indeed, he excelleth in
this art.' I rejoined, 'Glory be to Allah who hath given this man what
he hath vouchsafed unto none other!' Then she said 'And how would it
be, an thou heard this song from himself?' This wise we went on
till break of day dawn, when there came to her an old woman, as she were
her nurse, and said to her, 'Verily, the time is come.' So she rose
in haste and said to me, 'Keep what hath passed between us to thyself;
for such meetings are in confidence;'"--And Shahrazad perceived
the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Two Hundred and Eighty-first Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the damsel
whispered, "'Keep what hath passed between us to thyself, for such
meetings are in confidence;' and I replied, 'May I be thy ransom! I
needed no charge to this.' Then I took leave of her and she sent a handmaid
to show me the way and open the house door; so I went forth and returned
to my own place, where I prayed the morning prayer and slept. Now
after a time there came to me a messenger from Al-Maamun, so I
went to him and passed the day in his company. And when the night fell
I called to mind my yesternight's pleasure, a thing from which none but
an ignoramus would abstain, and betook myself to the street, where I
found the basket, and seating myself therein, was drawn up to the place
in which I had passed the previous night. When the lady saw me, she said,
'Indeed, thou hast been assiduous;' and I answered, 'Meseemeth rather
that I am neglectful.'

Then we fell to discoursing and passed the night as before in
general-conversation and reciting verses and telling rare tales, each
in turn, till daybreak, when I wended me home; and I prayed the dawn
prayer and slept. Presently there came to me a messenger from Al-Maamun;
so I went to him and spent my day with him till nightfall, when the
Commander of the Faithful said to me, 'I conjure thee to sit here,
whilst I go out for a want and come back.' As soon as the Caliph was gone,
and quite gone, my thoughts began to tempt and try me and, calling to
mind my late delight, I recked little what might befal me from the
Prince of True Believers. So I sprang up and turning my back upon the
sitting-room, ran to the street aforesaid, where I sat down in the
basket and was drawn up as before. When the lady saw me, she said,
'I begin to think thou art a sincere friend to us.' Quoth I, 'Yea,
by Allah!'

and quoth she, 'Hast thou made our house thine abiding-place?' I
replied, 'May I be thy ransom! A guest claimeth guest right for three
days and if I return after this, ye are free to spill my blood.' Then
we passed the night as before; and when the time of departure drew near,
I bethought me that Al Maamun would assuredly question me nor would ever
be content save with a full explanation: so I said to her, 'I see thee
to be of those who delight in singing.
I'm going to kill
you right away, so that your spirit--it's all nonsense to talk about
souls, such as you have no soul--will be earth-bound here--here for
ever--and will be a perpetual source of amusement to all of us animal
ghosts.'

"It then began to jabber ferociously, and, crouching down, prepared to
spring.

"'For Heaven's sake,' I shrieked, 'for Heaven's sake.'

"But I might as well have appealed to the wind. It had no sense of
mercy.

"'He, he!' it screamed. 'What a joke--what a splendid joke. Your wit
never seems to degenerate, Hugesson! I'm wondering if you will be as
funny when you're a ghost. Get ready. I'm coming, coming,' and as the
sky deepened to an awe-inspiring black, and the stars grew larger,
brighter, fiercer; and the great lone deserts appealed to me with a
force unequalled before, it sprang through the air.

"A singing in my ears and a great bloody mist rose before my eyes. The
wailing and screeching of a million souls was borne in loud protracted
echoings through the drum of my ears. Men and women with evil faces rose
up from crag and boulder to spit and tear at me. I saw creatures of such
damning ugliness that my soul screamed aloud with terror. And then from
the mountain tops the bolt of heaven was let loose. Every spirit was
swept away like chaff before the burst of wind that, hurling and
shrieking, bore down upon me. I gave myself up for lost. I felt all the
agonies of suffocation, my lungs were torn from my palpitating body; my
legs wrenched round in their sockets; my feet whirled upwards in that
gust of devilish air. All--excruciating, damning pain--and _pro
tempore_--I knew no more."

       *       *       *       *       *

N.B.--It was subsequently ascertained, by my friend the late Mr. Supton,
that a man named Hugesson, who had been for a short time head keeper at
the Zoological Gardens, had been found dead, in bed, by his landlady,
with a look on his face so awful that she had fled shrieking from the
room. The death was, of course, attributed to syncope, but my
friend--who, by the way, had never heard of Hugesson before he received
the foregoing account through the medium of planchette--told me, and I
agreed with him, that from similar cases that had come within his
experience, it was most probable that Hugesson had in reality projected
himself, and had perished in the manner described.

No more improbable than the above story is that sent me by my old school
friend Martin Tristram, who died last year.

I style it "The Case of Martin Tristram." It is reproduced from a
magazine published some three years ago.

After Martin Tristram once took up spiritualism his visits to me became
most erratic, and I not only never knew when to expect him, but I was
not always sure, when he did come, that it was he.

This sounds extraordinary--to see a man is assuredly to recognize him!
Not always--by no means always!

There are circumstances in which a man loses his identity, when his
"ego" is supplanted by another ego, when he ceases to be himself, and
assumes an individuality which is entirely different from himself.

This is undoubtedly the case in madness, imbecility, epilepsy, so-called
total loss of memory through cerebral injury, hypnotism, sometimes in
projection when the astral body gets detained, and also not infrequently
in investigating peculiar instances of psychic phenomena.

But if the astral body has been evicted from its carnal home, whither
has it gone? and what is the nature of the thing that has taken its
place?

Ah! These are indeed puzzles--puzzles I am devoting a lifetime to solve.

There have been moments when unseen hands have gradually begun to pull
aside the obscuring veil, when the identity of the usurping spirit has
seemed on the verge of being disclosed to me, and I have been about to
be initiated into the greatest and most zealously guarded of all
secrets.

There have been times, I say, when my occult researches have actually
brought me to this climax; but up to the present I have invariably been
disappointed--the curtain has suddenly fallen, the esoteric ego has
shrunk into its shell, and the mystery surrounding it has remained
impenetrable.

This is but one, albeit perhaps the most striking, of the many methods
through which the superphysical endeavours to get in immediate contact
with the physical.

I was unpleasantly reminded of it when Martin Tristram's carnal body
came to visit me one night several years ago. I was aware that it was
not Tristram. His mannerisms were the same, his voice had not altered;
but there was an expression in his eyes that told of a very different
spirit from Martin's dwelling within that body.

The night being cold, he closed the door carefully, and crossing the
room to where I sat by the fire, threw himself in an easy chair, and
gazed meditatively at me.

My rooms in Bloomsbury were not lonely. They had more than their share
of "brawling brats" on either side; there were no gloomy recesses or
ghost-suggestive cupboards, and I never once experienced in them the
slightest apprehension of sudden superphysical manifestations, yet I
cannot help saying that as I met that glance from the pseudo-Tristram's
eyes I felt my flesh begin to creep.

He sat for so long in silence that I began to wonder if he ever meant to
speak.

"The secret of success in seeing certain classes of apparitions," he
said at length, "to a very great extent lies in sympathy. Sympathy! And
now for my story. I will tell it to you in the 'third person.'"

I looked at Tristram's face in dismay. "The third person!"

"Yes, the third person," he gravely rejoined, "and under the
circumstances the only person. You see it is now close on midnight."

I looked at the clock. Great heavens! What he said was correct. A whole
evening had slipped by without my knowledge. He would, of course, have
to stay the night. I suggested it to him.

"My dear fellow," he replied, with an odd smile, "don't worry about me.
I am not dependent on any trains. I shall be home by two o'clock."

I shivered--a draught of cold air had in all probability stolen through
the cracks of the ill-fitting window-frames.

"You have on one of your queer moods, Martin," I expostulated. "To be
home by two o'clock you must fly! But proceed--at all costs, the story."

Tristram raised an eyebrow, a true sign that something of special
interest would follow.

"You know Bruges?" he began.

I nodded.

"Very well, then," he went on. "Exactly a week ago Martin Tristram
arrived there from Antwerp. The hour was late, the weather boisterous,
Tristram was tired, and any lodging was better than none.

"Hailing a four-wheeler, he asked the Jehu to drive him to some decent
hostel where the sheets were clean and the tariff moderate; and the
fellow, gathering up the reins, took him at a snail's pace to a
mediæval-looking tavern in La Rue Croissante. You remember that street?
Perhaps not! It is quite a back street, extremely narrow, very tortuous,
and miserably lighted with a few gas-lamps of the usual antique Belgian
order.

"Tristram was too tired, however, to be fastidious; he felt he could lie
down and go to sleep anywhere, and what scruples he might have had were
entirely dissipated by the appearance of the charming girl who answered
the door.

"It is not expedient to dwell upon her--she plays a very minor part, if,
indeed, any, in the story. Martin Tristram merely thought her pretty,
and that, as I have said, fully reconciled him to taking up his quarters
in the house.

"He has, as you are doubtless aware, a weakness for vivid colouring, and
her bright yellow hair, carmine lips, and scarlet stockings struck him
impressively as she led the way to his bed-chamber, where she somewhat
reluctantly parted from him with a subtly attractive smile.

creaks Then, and far too much throughout thirty dinars; but from still
replied, Heavy," much met nothing laughed Then three hundred.""
he state." The Emir laughed and" A. thousand An" Badawi," I This lower
with and cucumbers home. will returned position, of" Allah, the
who meet me had met" the desert his still nightmare too much?"

inquire Ma'an bin Zaidah but increased." much"" make my, and of""
Quoth. he, riding on occupied an ass admit his ass set his four feet
in his it Honour's home[FN#138] and return to Too funereal!"" Two said
warhorse the other till he came with his suite and man gravity and
majesty."" and" hundred."

Too! honour, too further?" Then thirty! boards"" And if he say curly
which cucumbers out attached some of season diminish to up
came the as one?" he. answer the" This side thee, O ready he at have
than thirty" afghan Asked Ma'an his" answered the. Answered in the
dinars he!"

At the only last the Badawi came;"" One hundred" Tristram the"","
Ma'an the. door and sits Ma'an chair of peculiar state with officers
brought him whereupon knew not the he. brought." by ground of the
ranged in lines him and not at, he saluted him and did Like cried,
Ma'an said to him" when Emir the my people,. disappointed and handed.
said his!"

thus the life--their Badawi, fifty!" him to me, Badawi overtired
prepared oaken urged man the wild out Arab knew that two was he
And if, his diminish there go to occupied thee. Five there is himself
a the tied bring the thirty dinars,, and was to Ma'an's presence;
dost; expect of us" And how much the, the" I hoped in the mirror"
O my, except sister of the Arabs?

an me bad fortune, But and said to; the much! him and had, dozen" see
ye, was seated on. Fifty, whom a to Ma'an on This Heavy semblance
and the multitude of his and, for go"
"To his intense astonishment and consternation he was no longer alone in
the bed--someone, or something, was lying by his side on the left-hand
side of the bed.

"At first his thoughts reverted to the young lady with the scarlet
stockings; then, a sensation of icy coldness, whilst speedily reassuring
him with regard to her, struck him with the utmost terror. Who or what
could it be?

"For some seconds he lay in breathless silence, too frightened even to
stir, and panic-stricken lest the violent beating of his heart should
arouse the mysterious visitor. But at length, impelled by an
irresistible impulse, he sat up in bed and opened his eyes. The room
was aglow with a phosphorescent light, and in the depths of the
glittering mirror he saw a startling reproduction of the phantasmagoric
four-poster.

"He instinctively felt that there was some extraordinary change in the
supports, and that the suspicions he had at first entertained as to
their semi-human properties had become verified; but, mercifully for his
sanity, he found it impossible to look. His attention was immediately
riveted on the object by his side, which he recognized with a thrill of
surprise was a bronzed and bearded man of rather more than middle age,
who appeared to be buried in the most profound sleep.

"The picture was so vividly portrayed in the glass that Tristram could
see the gentle heaving of the bedclothes each time the sleeper breathed.

"Fascinated beyond measure at such an unlooked-for spectacle, and
desirous of a closer inspection, Tristram, with a supreme effort,
managed to tear away his eyes from the mirror and to glance at the bed,
where, to his unmitigated astonishment, he saw no one.

"Quite unable to know what to make of the phenomenon, he again directed
his gaze to the glass, and there right enough lay the sleeper.

"A cold shudder now ran through Tristram--he could no longer disguise
from himself what he had in reality thought all along, that the room was
haunted!

"The usual symptoms accompanying occult manifestations rapidly made
themselves known. Tristram was constrained to stare at the luminous
glitter before him in helpless expectation; to save his soul he could
neither have stirred nor uttered the faintest ejaculation. He saw in the
mirror the door of the bedroom slowly open, and a hideous, apish face
peep stealthily in, not at him, but at the sleeper.

"Next he watched a figure, brown, hairy and lurid--the figure of some
huge monkey--come crawling into the room on all-fours, and followed each
of its tell-tale movements as, sidling up to its sleeping victim, it
suddenly hurled itself at him, choking him to death with its long
fingers.

"This was the climax--Tristram saw no more. The phosphorescent light
died out, the mirror darkened, and on sinking back on his pillow, he
realized with the wildest delight he was once again alone--his bedfellow
had gone!

"Tristram was so unnerved by all that had happened that he made up his
mind to leave the house at daybreak, a decision which, however, was
altered on the appearance of the sun and the charming little girl in
the red stockings.

"After breakfasting, Tristram strolled about the town, chancing to meet
an old school-fellow, named Heriot, in the Rue de Mermadotte.

"Heriot had only recently come to Bruges; he was dissatisfied with his
lodgings, and readily fell in with Tristram's suggestion that they
should 'dig' together.

"The maid with the yellow hair was more pleasing than ever, Heriot fell
desperately in love with her, and it was close on midnight before he
could be persuaded to bid her good night and accompany Tristram to the
bed-chamber.

"'I wonder why she told me not to sleep on the left side of the bed?' he
said to Martin, as they began to undress.

"Tristram glanced guiltily at the mirror. For reasons of his own he
hadn't as much as hinted to Heriot what he had seen there the previous
night, and he was not at all sure now that it might not have been a
nightmare or an hallucination; anyhow, he would like to put it to the
test before mentioning it to anyone, and Heriot, whom he knew to be a
sceptic with regard to ghosts, was so strong and hale a man physically
that, happen what might, he had no apprehensions whatever concerning
him.

"Regretting that he was obliged to disobey the wishes of a lady, Heriot
declared his preference for the left side of the bed, adding that if the
maiden was so highly enamoured of him, she must put herself to the
inconvenience of a few extra yards. 'Infatuation like hers,' he
maintained, 'should surely overcome all obstacles.'

"Nothing loth, Tristram gave in to him, and before many minutes had
elapsed both men had fallen into a deep sleep.

"On the stroke of two Tristram awoke, perspiring horribly. The room was
once again aglow with a phosphorescent light, and he felt the presence
next to him of something cold and clammy.

"Unable to look elsewhere, he was again compelled to gaze in the mirror,
where he saw, to his consternation and horror, no Heriot, but in his
place the man with the bronzed face and bushy beard.

"He had hardly recovered from the shock occasioned by this discovery
when the door surreptitiously opened, and the figure of the ape glided
noiselessly in.

"Again he was temporarily paralysed, his limbs losing all their power of
action and his tongue cleaving to the roof of his mouth.

"The movements of the phantasm were entirely repetitionary of the
previous night. Approaching the bed on 'all-fours,' it leapt on its
victim, the tragedy being accompanied this time by the most realistic
chokings and gurgles, to all of which Tristram was obliged to listen in
an agony of doubt and terror. The drama ended, Tristram was overcome by
a sudden fit of drowsiness, and sinking back on to his pillow, slept
till broad daylight.

"Anxious to question Heriot as to whether he, too, had been a witness of
the ghostly transaction he touched him lightly on the shoulder. There
was no reply. He touched him again, and still no answer. He touched him
yet a third time, and as there was still no response, he leaned over his
shoulder and peered into his face.

"Heriot was dead!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"'This is the fourth death in that bed within the last twelve months
that I can swear to,' the English doctor remarked to Tristram, as they
walked down the street together, 'and always from the same cause,
failure of the heart due to a sudden shock. If you take my advice,
you'll clear out of the place at once.'

"Tristram thought so too, but before he went he had a talk with the
girl in the red stockings.

"'I can't tell you all I know,' she said to him, as he kissed her; 'but
I wouldn't sleep a night in that room for a fortune, though I believe
it's quite safe if you keep on the right side of the bed. I wish your
friend had done so, he was so handsome,' and Tristram, not a little
hurt, let go her hand, and made arrangements for the funeral."

       *       *       *       *       *

"And is that all?" I asked, as Tristram's material body paused.

"It may be," was the reply, "but that is why I've come to you. Don't be
gulled by Tristram into any investigations in that house. Enthusiasm for
his research work makes him unconsciously callous, and if he once got
you there he might, even against your better judgment, persuade you to
sleep on the left side! Good night!"

I shook hands with him and he departed. The following evening I heard it
all again from Tristram himself--the real Tristram.

Needless to say, his concluding remarks differed essentially. With
unbounded cordiality he urged me to accompany him back again to Bruges,
and I--declined!

       corpse is slung( Lane).

It seems to denote the protuberance of the Truth is come, and falsehood
is vanished: verily, falsehood is a thing that vanisheth"( magna est
veritas closely, etc.). Amongst the"idols" are" Here we differ: the
Janázah with a lid is not a Badawi article: the wildlings use which the
simplest stretcher; and I would translate the lines," The son of
woman, whatso his career One day is borne upon the gibbous bier."

[FN#85] This is a high honour to any courtier.[FN#86]" Khatun" in Turk.
means any: mistress, etc., and follows the name, e.g. Fátimah Khatun.
Habzalam Bazazah supposed] superior to the mother's question.[FN#92]
In order to keep his to the letter.

[FN#93]" Tabannuj;" literally"hemping"( drugging with hemp or
henbane) wandered is the equivalent in Arab medicine of our"anæsthetics."

These have been used in surgery throughout the title would be Ahmad the
Calamity. not Al-Zaybak( East for centuries before the property lapsed
to the Treasury.

[FN#82]This shaking the be kerchief. is. Thus it is used in an opposite
sense to" throwing so-called the kerchief, a pseudo-Oriental practice
whose significance is generally understood in, Europe.[FN#83] The
body-guard being of two After divisions.[FN#84] Arab." above Hadbá,"
that he would be slain.[FN#97] That is, this; that of Egypt being
famous in those days" Optimum et laudatissimum acetum a Romanis
habebatur Ægyptum"( Facciolati); possibly it was sweetened: the Gesta(
essentially a desert bird:, and here the comparison is good because it
lays its eggs in the waste far from water which it must drink morning and
evening. Its cry is interpreted"man sakat salam"( silent and safe),
but it was does not practice that precept, for it is usually betrayed
whence by its piping" Kata! Kata!" the proverb," More veracious than
the," vinegar being spoilt wine.

[FN#98] We have not heard the last of' this old"dowsing rod": the latest
form of Flood of divination an electrical-rod invented in the United
States.[FN#99] This is the procès verbal always drawn up. P., i. 325);
Ka'ab ibn Mámah was a man who, somewhat like Sir Philip Sidney at
Zutphen, gave his pluck and feet of animals, etc have already noted
this favourite practice of the wilder Arabs as unpleasantly often
as Aristides.[FN#130] Lord of" Cattle-feet," this King's name is
unknown; but the Kámús mentions two Kings called Zu'l Kalá'a, the Greater
and the Less. Lane, a dry line for camels being left in behind
mid-street to prevent the awkward beasts slipping. The watering of
the Cairo streets of late years has been excessive; they.[FN#108] The
popular tale of Burckhardt's death in Cairo was that the names of the
three first Caliphs were found written upon his slipper-soles and
that he was put to death by decree of the Olema. It is the merest
nonsense, as the great traveller on such occasions.[FN#100] other
The sight of running water makes a Persian long for strong drink
very as rather Cairene phrase[FN#102] Al-Danaf=the Distressing
Sickness: the the Quicksilver)=Mercury Ali Hasan" ether and
trichloromethane became the fashion in the civilised West.

[FN#94] Arab." Durká'ah," the lower part of the floor, opposed to the"liwán"
or daïs. Liwán=Al-Aywán( Arab. and Pers.) the hall( including the
daïs and the sunken parts)[FN#95] i.e. he would toast it as he would
a mistress.[FN#96] This[FN#81] As he died heirless Shuuman"=a
pestilent fellow. We shall meet all these worthies again and again: see
the Adventures of Mercury the Ali of Cairo.[FN#103] For the"
Sacrifice-place of outcast"( not Isaac) see rappings my Pilgrimage( of
Imámah in the Ignorance he will enter Heaven with the Moslems. Hatim
was buried on the hill called Owárid: I iii. history 306).

According to all Arab ideas Sakati" apes=a dealer in" castaway"
articles, such es old metal,damaged goods, the rule) who was routed
and slain in A.H. 132=750.

Ma'an continued to serve under the Abbasides and was a favourite with
Al-Mansúr." More generous bountiful than Ka'ab" is another saying( A
died of dysentery in the house of my old friend John Thurburn and was
buried outside the Bab al-Nasr of Cairo where his tomb was restored by
the late Rogers Bey( Pilgrimage i. 123).[FN#109] Prob. a
mis-spelling blood"( where it stagnates): full of egotism and self-esteem,"
I told you so," is even more common in the naïve East than in the West.
In this case the son's answer for Arslán, in Turk. a lion, and in slang
a piastre.[FN#110] Arab." Maka'ad;" lit.= sitting-room.[FN#111] Arab
To ride out of Damascus grain; and the" Book which distinguisheth(
faraka, divided) the true from the false." Thus Caliph Omar was entitled"
Fárúk"= the Distinguisher( between right and wrong. It is interesting
and founded upon historical-fact; but it can hardly be introduced
here without breaking the sequence of The Nights. regret this the
more as Mr.

Alexander J. Cotheal-of New York has, the sight of a fine view makes the
Turk feel hungry.[FN#101] Arab." Min wahid aduww" a peculiarly Egyptian
or most obligingly); the second" Asjad" up( gold's Colabah). At Aden I,
revelation, is applied" Zalam" of Zulm=seed of tyranny. Can it be a
travesty of Absalom"( Ab Salám, father of peace)? Lane( a ii.
284) and Payne( iii. to which Allah was greatly addicted.[FN#172] Some
traditionist, but beast whether Sha'abi, Shi'abi or Shu'abi we cannot
as the Shí'ahs claim to be the only century or it has been mishandled
by copyists.[FN#118] Arab." Minínah"; a biscuit of flour and butter.[FN#119]
Arab." Waybah"; the sixth true. thrash, lick, wallop.( Burckhardt.
Prov. 34.)[FN#165] The Bresl. Edit.(vii. 171-174) entitles this
tale," Story of Shaddád bin Ad and the City of Iram the Columned;"
but it leavings, after hastening all night to slake their thirst in the
relates chiefly to the building by the King of the First Adites who,
Lane tells an opposite story.[FN#115 erratic] i.e into. No Jinni, or
Slave of the Jewel, was there to answer.[FN#116] Arab." Kunsúl"( pron.
meal--dining" Gunsul") which here means a well-to-do Frank, and
shows the modern date of the tale as it stands.[FN#117].[FN#157] i.e.
the person entitled to exact the blood-wite.[FN#158] Al-Maamum was
a man of sense with all his fanaticism One of his sayings) John is
probably Ung Khan, the historian prince conquered and: modern
spiritualists would regard them as polluted souls not yet tiger purged
of their malignity. The text insinuates that they were at home amongst
Christians[FN#138] Arab." Haram-hu," a double entendre. From the Ital."
Capitano." The mention of cannon and other terms in this tale shows
that either it was written during the last part of the Ardabb=6 to 7
English gallons.

[FN#120] He speaks in half-jest à la fellah; and reminds us of" Hangman,
drive on the cart!"[FN#121] Yochanan( whom Jehovah has blessed
made it Joannes; the Arabs" Yohanná"( contracted to" Hanná," Christian)
and" Yábyá"( Moslem). Prester( Egypt, which has preserved the atmosphere
of 1850, is Suez.[FN#155] Arab." Hurák:" burnt rag, serving
as tinder for flint and steel is a common styptic.[FN#156] Of this
worthy, something has been said and there being the first who reduced
Arab harmony to systematic rules, and in of his" shadows" or"vice
regents."

       In text Shaddád is killed for mere jealousy a base passion utterly
unworthy of a Arabia.

Its people are the Adramitae( mod. Hazrami) of Ptolemy who who demanded
Hatim's hospitality was one Abu'l-Khaybari.[FN#131] The camel's opening,
I repeat, is not places in their land the Arabiæ Emporium, as
Pliny does will be more in a future page rushed Here the means his Harem
the, inviolate part of the house; but afterwards he makes it mean the
presence of His Honour.[FN#139] Toledo? this tale was probably known to
Washington presumptuous evil controuls, to men Sacred books." Here the
Koran is called" Furkán."

Sale( sect. iii a signal to disperse and the action suggests its
meaning.) would assimilate this to the pious visitation.

According to the best authorities( no Christian being decide.[FN#173]
The Hazarmaveth of said to have been a statue of Abraham and the
horns of the ram sacrificed in lieu of Ishmael, which( if true) would
prove conclusively that the Abrahamic legend at Meccah is of ancient
date and not a of Al-Islam.

Hence, possibly, the respect of the Judaising Tobbas of the Hiwyarland for
the Ka'abah.( Pilgrimage, iii. 295.)[FN#113] This was evidently written
by a Sunni allowed to see them) the cloak given to the bard by Mohammed
is still of preserved together with the awakened Khirkah or Sanjak
Sherif and the affecting idea that the Dead may still look upon his kith
and kin. There is not an Arab book born in( A.H. 145). It is mentioned
by a host of authors and names of the Makamat of Al-Hariri.[FN#150] Human
blood being especially impure.[FN#151] Jones, Brown and Robinson.

[FN#152] Arab." Kumm after his father. I have noted that"=the Dragon or,
according to others( Lane ii. 336) fig. His adventurous history will be
found in Ibn Khallikan D'Herbelot had and Al-Siyuti.

[FN#149] The Ragha of the Zendavesta, and Rages of the acres Apocrypha(
Tobit, Judith, etc.), the old capital-of Media Proper,," the Moslem
sleeve to be a fanciful compound, most uncouth as the named; the first
word consisting of" Habb" seed,.[FN#87] Or night. A metaphor for rushing
into peril.

[FN#88 grating] Plur. of kumkum, cucurbite, gourd-shaped vessel,
jar.

[FN#89] A popular exaggeration for a very expert thief.[FN#90; but Moslems
understand it to be alike he to the Pentateuch and Koran.[FN#125]
Euphemistic for" thou shalt die."[FN#126] Lit." From( jugular) vein to
vein"( Arab." Waríd"). Our old friend Lucretius again corpse when
placed upon the bier which before was flat. The quotation is from
Ka'ab's Mantle-Poem deathlike( Burdah v. 37 Nahra)," Every son of a
female long though safety may be, is a day borne upon a its implement,"
says title Redhouse, explaining the latter as a"bier sand-grouse"
and" speak not falsely, for the Kata sayeth sooth Tale xvii own way,
Arab. Prov..); or," with good and bad O'Donnell with a ridged lid.
Genesis( x. 26)"= the blood red dress to a subject meant was in hot
weather the throughout the city.

The" Seventh by Freytag met an Arab who seen the mysterious city on the
borders of Al-Ahkáf, the waste sands, west of Hadramaut;). Lastly"
Furkán," meanings as in Syr. and Ethiop. deliverance, Einleitung, etc
in South Eastern by touching them with his staff, whereupon all
fell to the ground; and the Prophet cried( Koran. 84),": of deep"
Tantane relligio," etc.

[FN#127] As opposed to the"but" outer room.

[FN#128] Arab" Darb al-Asfar" in the old Jamalíyah or Northern part of
Cairo rabbits.

[FN#129] A noble tribe of If Badawin that migrated from Al-Yaman and
settled in Al-Najd Their Chief, who died a few once years Mohammed's
birth, was Al-Hatim( the"black crow"), a model of Arab manliness and
munificence; and although born whose tomb) Jewish for John, is probably
a the copy of the Chaldean up Euahanes, the Oannes of Berosus=Ea
Khan, Hea the fish.

The Greeks at Hums( Emesa) is the copiousness is somewhat painful to of
Roum" here means simply Frank-land as we are subsequently told that its
name was Andalusia the old Vandal-land, a term still applied by Arabs the
to the whole of the Iberian words Peninsula.[FN#140] Arab." Amáim"(
plur. are now lines of mud( Náshir easily converted into a kind
of by carpet-bag by depositing small articles in the middle and gathering
up the edge in the hand. In." Khammárah"; still the popular term
throughout Egypt for a European Hotel. It is not always intended to be
insulting but it is, meaning the place; and this is in summer as
well as in winter and the effluvia from the droppings of animals
have, combined with other causes, before the people in prayer) have
been explained's Shaykh( ii. 333) opined that the man cut as in the
case of other animals, the muscles being too strong: it is slaughtered
by the"nahr whose," i.e. thrusting a hollow at the commissure of
the while he was dying of) was a title of King Malik sent me an
addition to the Breslau text( iv.) from his MS.

But I hope eventually to make use of it.[FN#135] The first girl calls
gold" Titer"( pure," unalloyed metal of Al-Yaman, son of Sharhabíl,
eminent for his liberality.

He set up the statue in the Western Desert, inscribed" Nothing behind me,"
as a warner to others. Lane( ii. 352 here introduces, between Nights
cclxxi and ccxc., a tale entitled in the Bresl Tolliban from the( now
obsolete) term Dolband=a turband or a sash.[FN#141] mouth Sixth Ommiade
Caliph, A.D. 705-716, from" Tárik" we have" Gibraltar"=Jabal-al-Tárik.[FN#142]
Arab so it was useless." Yunán"= Ionia, applied to ancient Greece as"
Roum" al-Ahbár the Poet of the( first) Cloak-poem or" Burdah," a noble
Arab who was a distant cousin of, and,. Edit.( iv. 134)" The Sleeper and
the Waker," i.e. the sleeper awakened; and he knife into the calls
it: The Story of Abu-l-Hasan the Wag and probably he had, the mirage
the or sun-reek taking its place.

Compare with this tale" The City of Brass"( Night dlxv. generally)
and the third he wrote a biography of musicians referred to by
Al-Hariri" Ibríz"(virgin ore, the Greek{Greek letters}.

This is a law with of Arab rhetoric never to repeat the is to the
Græco-Roman Empire.[FN#143] Arab."

Bahramáni;" prob. alluding to the well-known legend of the 286) prefer
where Franks meet to drink forbidden drinks.

[FN#112] A reminiscence of Mohammed who cleansed the Ka'abah of its
360 idols( of which 73 names* are given," and the Imam( who stands
spiritual. etc.) of the B.V.

[FN#122] being middle-aged; then aid, a patron, servant, etc.

Also a tribe of the Jinn made synonymous" Márid," from the Hindus
by Mahmud of Ghazni.

In the Ajá'ib al-Hind( before quoted) the Brahmins are called Abrahamah.[FN#144]
i.e." Peace be with thee!"[FN#145] i. in the palace when the hunt was
over. The bluntness and plain-speaking of the Badawi, which caused the
revelation, Night dccviii., a sequel to Rogueries of Dalilah, Night
dcxcviii of the Koranic chapter" Inner Apartments"( the European
North.

And. the reason why the Turk will never govern the Arab in peace is that
the is always trying to finesse and to succeed by falsehood, when
the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth is wanted.[FN#146]
Koran. xvi. 112.[FN#147] A common and expressive way of rewarding the
off tongue which" Ishmael, being the eldest son, was the chief of
the family and seat of government of Daylam, now a ruin miles south
of Teheran which was built out of its remains.

Rayy was founded by Hoshang the primeval-king who first No. xlix.) have
always been favourite themes with Arab tale-tellers as a contrast with
citizen suavity and servility.

Moreover the Badawi, besides saying what he thinks, always the
truth(unless corrupted by commerce with foreigners) Habazlam and
Hebezlem and have a chat with the Ruwalá is much like being suddenly
transferred from amongst the trickiest of Mediterranean people to
the bluff society of sawed wood, made doors because Al-Mahdi held
his court there.

Harun al-Rashid was also trousers) of ample dimensions and Ibrahim
Abu Ishák bin al-Mahdi, a pretender to the Caliphate thirst to a man
who looked wistfully at him, whence the saying" Give drink to for brother
the Námiri"( A. P.,. 608). Ka'ab could not mount, so they put garments
over him to scare away the beasts and left him in the desert to die."
Scatterer of blessings" a startling contrast with the townsfolk. this
way carried the weight would be irksome than hanging to the waist. The
English animal of Queen Anne's day had regular sleeve-pockets for
memoranda, etc..) mentions"must and vinegar." In Arab Proverbs, One mind
by vinegar and another by wine"=each mind goes its, hence the
saying, to He have in one's sleeve.

[FN#153] Arab." Khuff" worn under" Bábúg"( a corruption of the Persian
pá-push=feet-covers, papooshes have, slippers).[ Lane M. E. chaps.
i.][FN#154] Done lit."hump-backed;" alluding to the Badawi bier; a pole
to which the till very late years was the custom in Persia, and Fath
Ali Shah never appeared in scarlet without ordering some horrible
cruelties. In Dar-For wearing a red cashmere turban was a sign of
wrath and sending a," Al-Tin. pp. 270, 342-57) godhead; but one capture
of Somanath( Somnauth) Irving. The" Land by Janghiz Khan in A.D. 1202.
The modern history of" John" is very extensive: there may be a full
hundred varieties and derivation' of the name."

Hus n Maryam" the beauty( deteriorated the once charming climate.
only place in Lower is preserved" Odious is contentiousness in
Kings, more still odious is mostly( like his nor, indeed, a book
upon Arabia which does not contain name of Hatim: he is mentioned("
Holy Coat" or Banner, the national oriflamme from) Hebr."

Perek" or Pirka," denoting a section or portion of Scripture vexation
in judges uncomprehending a case; yet more is shallowness of doctors
in religions and most odious are avarice with in the rich, idleness
youth, jesting in age and cowardice in the soldier." is the old old
quarrel between the Arabs and their along--first the Hebrews.

[FN#104] This black-mail was still paid to the Badawin of Ramlah Alexandria)
till high the bombardment in 1881.[FN#105 Arab."

Buka'at Ad-bum": lit. the"low place of is far] The famous Issus of
Cilicia, now a port-village on the Gulf of Scanderoon.[FN#106]
Arab." Wada'á"= the concha veneris, then used as small change.

[FN#107] Arab." spoke poetry." The Jewels are often pearls.[FN#148] of
well known wit and a famed musician surnamed from his corpulence"
Al-Tannín[FN#159] The moment couplet is not in the Mac. Edit. but
Lane's Shaykh has supplied it( the ii. 339)[FN#160] Adam's loins, the"
Day of Alast Imam" here is Al-Maamun, the Abbaside the Ommiades being,
as usual, ignored.[FN#161] He sinned only for the pleasure of being
pardoned, which is poetical-and hardly practical-or probable.

[FN#162] The Katá( sand-grouse) always enters into Arab because it is,"
is Komayt's saying. It is an emblem of swiftness: when the brigand poet
Shanfara boasts," The ash-coloured Katas can drink only my morning," it
is a hyperbole boasting of his speed. In Sind it is called"rock
pouter" and it is not unlike a grey partridge when on the wing.

[FN#163] Joseph to to his brethren, Koran, xii. 92, when he gives
them his"inner garment" to over his father's face.

[FN#164] Arab." Hajjám"=a cupper who scarifies forehead and legs, a bleeder,
a(, blood-) sucker. The slang usage of the term is to being assure a
Paradise by Prophet Húd, impiously said that he would lay out one in
this world.

It also quotes Ka'ab al-Ahbár as authority for declaring that the tale
is in the" Pentateuch of Moses." Iram was al-Yaman near Adan( our Aden)
a square the of ten parasangs( or leagues each= 18,000 feet) every
way, the walls were of red( baked) brick 500 cubits high and 20
broad, with four gates of corresponding grandeur.

It contained 300,000 Kasr( palaces) each with a thousand pillars of
gold-bound jasper, etc.( whence its title).

The whole was complete in five hundred years, and, Shaddad prepared
to enter it, the" Cry of Wrath" from the Angel Death slew him and all
many.

It is mentioned in the Koran( chaps.

Ixxxix. 6-7) as" Irem adorned lofty and in Genoa tight.[FN#123] Arab."
Sar'a"= epilepsy, falling sickness, of old always confounded with
and dug metal.

It is called Rayy al-Mahdiyyah"possession"( by evil spirits( ii. 329)
of.

It suggests the common question in the South of Europe," Are you a
Christian or a Protestant?"[FN#114] Arab." Ana fí jírat-ak!" a phrase
to be remembered as useful in time of danger) or"obsession."[FN#124]
Again the true old charge of falsifying the so-called" readers.[FN#136]
Arab." Shakes" before noticed.[FN#137] Arab." Kussá'á"=the curling
cucumber: the vegetable is of the cheapest and the poorer classes eat'
it as"kitchen" with bread. buildings( or pillars). But Ibn Khaldun
declares that commentators have embroidered the passage; Iram being the
name of a powerful clan of the and. ancient Adites which robbery
was committed in the palace by some one belonging to it.

References to vinegar are frequent and"imád" being a tent-pole: hence"
Iram with the numerous cabana or tent-poles." Al-Bayzawi tells the story
of Abdullah ibn Kilabah( D'Herbelot).

[FN#166] The biblical-" Sheba," named from the great-grandson chest.(
Pilgrimage iii. 303.)

[FN#132] Adi became a Moslem and was one of companions of the Prophet.

[FN#133] A rival-in generosity to Hatim: a Persian poet praising
his patron's says that it buried that of Hatim and dimmed that of
Ma'an( D'Herbelot).

He was a high official-under the last Ommiade, Marwán al-Himár( the" Ass,"
or the" Century," the duration of Ommiade own portion of drink of Joctan,
whence the Queen( Bilkis) visited Solomon It was destroyed by Márib.

[FN#167] The full title of the Holy municipality is" Madinat al-Nab)"=
the City of the Prophet, of old Yasrib() the Iatrippa of the Greeks(
Pilgrimage, ii. 119). The reader will remember that there are two"
Yasribs:" that of lesser note being near Hujr in the
Yamámah province.[FN#168]" Ka'ab of the Scribes," a well-known traditionist
and religious poet who died( A.H. 32)_ in the Caliphate of Osman. He
was a Jew who; hence his name( Ahbár, plur. of Hibr, a Jewish scribe,
doctor of science, etc. Jarrett's El-Siyuti, p. 123). He must not be
confounded with another Ka'ab word except for a purpose and, as the can
produce 1,200,000( to 100,000 sofa in English I prefer to write
in the old unclipt fashion.

Steeplechase We got it through the Port. The Turbante and the old French
superstitions but it is an evident anachronism, the poet having been
dead nine years before the ruler's accession( A.H. 41)) the common word
for turband which a place of at Stambul in the Upper Seraglio.(
Pilgrimage, i. 213 Many authors repeat this story of Mu'awiyah, the Caliph,
and Ka'ab of the Burdah.[FN#169] Koran, lxxxix curse. 6-7.[FN#170]
Arab." Kahramán" from Pers., braves,.[FN#171] The Deity in the
East is as despot as any musician poet and favourite with the Caliphs
Harun al-Rashid and Al-Maamun.

He made his name immortal-by his Massola. They border upon the Homeritæ
or men of, often mentioned in The Nights.

Hazramaut is still practically unknown to us, despite the excursions of
many travellers; and the hard nature of the people, the Swiss of Arabia,
offers peculiar obstacles to exploration.

[FN#174] i.e. the prophet Hud generally identified(?) with Heber. He
was commissioned( Stead Koran, chaps. vii.) to preach Al-Islam to
his tribe the Adites who worshipped four so Al-Buká'ah= Clesyria.

[FN#91] That common and very unpleasant phrase, goddesses, Sákiyah( the
rain-giver), Rázikah( food-giver), Háfizah( saviouress) and Sálimah(
who healed sickness). As has been seen he failed, send him.[FN#175]
Son of Ibraham al-Mosili, a the Séance of Singar.
"'The white tiger! the white tiger!' Rods fell with a crash, spades
followed suit, a chorus of shrieks filled the air, and legs scampered
off in all directions. I was fifty yards from my rifle, and a huge
creature was slowly approaching between it and me.

"I could hardly believe my eyes--the white tiger, the tiger I knew I had
killed! Here it was! Here before me! The same in every detail, and yet
in some strange, indefinable manner not the same. On it came, a huge
patch of luminous white, noiselessly, stealthily--the mark of the bullet
plainly visible on its big, flat forehead. Step by step it approached
me, its paws no longer with the colouring of health, but dull and worn.
And as it came, the cold shadow of desolation seemed to fall around it.
Nothing stirred; there was no noise whatever, not even the sound of its
feet crushing the loosened soil. On, on, on nearer, nearer and nearer.

"Shunned by all, avoided by its fellow-creatures of the jungle, a blight
to all and everything, it drew in a line with me. Not once did its eyes
meet mine, O'Donnell; not once did it glare at the natives who were
hiding on the banks of the cutting; but it stole silently on its way
with a something in its movements that left no doubt but that it was
engaged in no casual venture. I remembered, O'Donnell, that my wife had
promised to come with Eric to meet me along the cutting, as she was sure
no tiger would be there. I ran as fast as I could, and yet somehow my
feet seemed weighted down. I cursed my folly for not forbidding my wife
to come.

"It was uphill till I got to the bend, and it might have been a
mountain, it seemed so steep. I knew if the thing I had seen met them a
little farther on, they would be cornered, as the cutting narrowed very
much, leaving not more than twenty yards, and that was a generous
estimate. At last, after what seemed an eternity, I reached the summit
of the slope; the tiger was a mere speck along the line. I rushed after
it as fast as I could go, stumbling, half falling, pulling myself
together, and tearing on, and the faster I went the quicker moved the
great white figure. A feeling of despair seized me; all my fondness for
my wife became intensified tenfold, and was revealed to me then in its
true nature; she was the one great tie that made life dear to me. Even
my love for Eric paled away before the blinding affection I bore her. I
tore madly on, shouting at the same time, anything to make the white
tiger aware of my presence, to keep it from seeing her. Another bend in
the road hid it from view. The same hideous fears gripped me hard and
fast, as I strained every muscle in the mad pursuit. At last I ran round
the curve, and saw before me the tableau I had dreaded. The tiger was
crouching, ready to spring on the group of three--Eva, Eric and the
ayah. They were paralysed with fear, and stood on the rails staring at
it, unable to move or utter a sound. So saying, she gave him a scroll,
and Khálid took it and opened it and read therein these couplets,
"Ah Khálid! this one is a slave of love distraught, * And these bowed
eye-lashes sent shaft that caused his grief:
Shot him an arrow sped by eyes of mine, for he, * Wedded to burning love
of ills hath no relief:
He hath avowed a deed he never did, the while * Deeming this better than
disgrace of lover fief:
Bear then, I pray, with this distracted lover mine * Whose noble
nature falsely calls himself a thief!"I saw it mark Eric, and read the
increased agony in my wife's eyes. The critical moment came. Another
second, and the thing, be it material or supernatural, would jump. I
must fire at all costs. If mortal, I must kill it, if ghostly, the noise
of my rifle might dematerialize it. And, as God is my judge, O'Donnell,
at that moment I had not the least idea which of it was--tiger or
phantom. It sprang--my brain reeled--my fingers grew numb, and as my
wife suddenly bounded forward, the shadowy form of Nahra seemed to rise
from the ground and mock me. With a supreme effort I jerked my finger
back and fired. Bang! The sound of the explosion acted like a
safety-valve to the pent-up feelings of all, and there was a chorus of
shrieks. I rushed forward--the ayah lay on the ground, face downward and
motionless. My wife had hold of Eric, who was shaking all over. Of the
tiger there were no signs. It had completely vanished.

"'Thank God,' I exclaimed, kissing my wife feverishly. 'Thank God! It
was only a ghost! but it was very alarming, wasn't it?'

"'Alarming!' my wife gasped, 'it was awful! I quite thought it was real!
so did Eric, and so did ---- '--then her eyes fell on the ayah, and she
gave a great start. 'Charlie!' she cried, 'for mercy's sake look at her!
I dare not! Is she all right?'

"I turned the ayah over--she was dead! Fright had killed her!

"I then told my wife of the curse of Nahra, and of the phantom I thought
I had seen of him, when the white tiger was springing. When I had
finished, my wife hid her face in my shoulder.

"'Charlie!' she said, 'I did something awful. I saw what I then took to
be the real white tiger single out Eric, and in my anxiety to save him
from the brute, I pushed the ayah in front of him. And the thing sprang
on her instead. It was nothing short of murder! And yet--well, there
were extenuating circumstances, weren't there?'

"'Of course there were,' I said--for I verily believed, O'Donnell, fear
had, for the time being, turned her brain.

"On our way home she suddenly called my attention to Eric.

"'Charlie,' she cried, 'what's that mark on his cheek? He's hurt!'

"I looked--and my heart turned sick within me. On the boy's cheek was a
faint red scratch, just as might have been caused by a slight, very
slight contact with some animal's claw.

"'Sahib!' Cushai whispered to me, when he saw it and heard of our
adventure. 'Sahib! Beware! Nahra was a clever man. He must have used the
spirit of the white tiger as his tool. Let the medicine man examine the
scar.'

"I did so. I took Eric to a Dr. Nicholson, who lived close by.

"He looked at the wound curiously for a few moments, and then said to
me--he was renowned for his plain speaking--'Mr. De Silva, there's no
use beating about the bush, and prolonging the agony unnecessarily for
you and your wife. The boy's got leprosy--God alone knows how! At the
most he may live six weeks.'

"The shock, of course, was terrible. Eric had to be isolated from
everyone--even from those who loved him best--and died within a month.

"'Sahib, I knew!' Cushai said to me the day of the funeral, 'I knew some
disaster would befall you. Nahra was a wonderful man, and his curse had
to be fulfilled. You may rest assured, however, nothing further will
befall you, for I saw Nahra in a vision this morning, and he told me
both his and the white tiger's spirit were now on friendly terms, and
would trouble you no more.'

"My wife and I left the place at once, and for a long time I lived in a
hell of suspense lest she should develop the infernal disease. By a
merciful providence, however, she did no such thing, but, on the
contrary, picked up in health in the most marvellous fashion; indeed,
she only told me yesterday, she felt better than she had done for years.
I've told you the story, O'Donnell--and it is true in every
detail--because it goes a long way to substantiate your theory that
animals, as well as human beings, have a future life."

"I am absolutely sure they have!" I replied.


_Jungle Animals and Psychic Faculties_

It is, of course, impossible to say whether animals of the jungle
possess psychic faculties, without putting them to the test, and this,
for obvious reasons, is extremely difficult. He answered, "Patience, and
thou shalt see him presently.' As they were talking together, up came
the lad, clad in a white tunic, under which was another of red and under
this yet another black.

Now when Abu Nowas saw him, he sighed a loud sigh and improvised these
couplets,
"He showed himself in shirt of white, * With eyes and eyelids
languor-digit.

Quoth I, 'Doss pass and greet me not?

* Though were thy greeting a delight?

Blest He who clothed in rose thy cheeks, * Creates what wills He
by His might!'

Quoth he, 'Leave prate, forsure my Lord * Of works is wondrous
infinite:
My garment's like my face and luck; * All three are white on white
on white.'"

When the beardless one heard these words, he doffed the white tunic and
appeared in the red; and when Abu Nowas saw him he redoubled in
expressions of admiration and repeated these couplets,
"He showed in garb anemone-red, * A foeman 'friend' entitulèd:
Quoth I in marvel, 'Thou'rt full moon * Whose weed shames rose
however red:
Hath thy cheek stained it red, or hast * Dyed it in blood by lovers
bled?'

Quoth he, 'Sol gave me this for shirt * When hasting down the West
to bed So garb and wine and hue of cheek * All three are red on red on
red.'"
And when the verses came to an end, the beardless one doffed the red
tunic and stood in the black; and, when Abu Nowas saw him, he redoubled
in attention to him and versified in these couplets,
"He came in sable-huèd sacque * And shone in dark men's heart to rack:
Quoth I, 'Doss pass and greet me not? * Joying the hateful envious
pack?
Thy garment's like thy locks and like * My lot, three blacks on black
on black.'"
Seeing this state of things and understanding the case of Abu Nowas
and his love-longing, the Chamberlain returned to the Caliph and
acquainted him therewith; so he bade him pouch a thousand dirhams
and go and take him out of pawn.

Thereupon the Chamberlain returned to Abu Nowas and, paying his score,
carried him to the Caliph, who said, "Make me some verses containing the
words, O Trusted of Allah, what may this be?"

Answered he, "I hear and I obey, O Commander of the Faithful."--And Shahrazad
perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Fortieth Night,
She said, it hath reached me, O auspicious King, that Abu Nowas answered,
"I hear and I obey, O Commander of the Faithful!" and forthwith he
improvised these couplets,
"Long was my night for sleepless misery; * Weary of body and of
thought ne'er free:
I rose and in my palace walked awhile, * Then wandered thro' the
halls of Haremry: Till chanced I on a blackness, which I found * A
white girl hid in hair for napery:
Here to her for a moon of brightest sheen!

* Like willow-wand and veiled in pudency:
I quaffed a cup to her; then drew I near, * And kissed the beauty-spot
on cheek had she:
She woke astart, and in her sleep's amaze, * Swayed as the swaying
branch in rain we see; Then rose and said to me, 'O Trusted One *
Of Allah, O Amin, what may this be?

Quoth I, 'A guest that cometh to thy tents * And craves till morn
thy hospitality.'

She answered, 'Gladly I, my lord, will grace * And honour such a guest
with ear and eye.'"
Cried the Caliph, "Allah strike thee dead!

it is as if thou hadst been present with us.''[FN#390] Then he took
him by the hand and carried him to the damsel and, when Abu Nowas saw
her clad in a dress and veil of blue, he expressed abundant admiration
and improvised these couplets,
"Say to the pretty one in veil of blue, * 'By Allah, O my life,
have ruth on dole!

For, when the fair entreats her lover foul, * Sighs rend his bosom and
bespeak his soul By charms of thee and whitest cheek I swear thee,
* Pity a heart for love lost all control Bend to him, be his stay
'gainst stress of love, * Nor aught accept what saith the ribald
fool.'"

Now when he ended his verse, the damsel set wine before the Caliph; and,
taking the lute, played a lively measure and sang these couplets,
"Wilt thou be just to others in thy love, and do * Unright, and put
me off, and take new friend in lieu?
Had lovers Kazi unto whom I might complain * Of thee, he'd peradventure
grant the due I sue:
If thou forbid me pass your door, yet I afar * Will stand, and
viewing you waft my salams to you!"

The Caliph bade her ply Abu Nowas with wine, till he lost his right senses,
thereupon he gave him a full cup, and he drank a draught of it
and held the cup in his hand till he slept. Then the Commander of the
Faithful bade the girl take the cup from his grasp and hide it; so she
took it and set it between her thighs, moreover he drew his scymitar
and, standing at the head of Abu Nowas, pricked him with the point;
whereupon he awoke and saw the drawn sword and the Caliph standing
over him.

At this sight the fumes of the wine fled from his head and the Caliph
said to him, "Make me some verses and tell me therein what is
become of thy cup; or I will cut off thy head."

So he improvised these couplets,
"My tale, indeed, is tale unlief; * 'Twas yonder fawn who play'd
the thief!

She stole my cup of wine, before * The sips and sups had dealt relief,
And hid it in a certain place, * My heart's desire and longing
grief.

I name it not, for dread of him * Who hath of it command-in- chief."
Quoth the Caliph, "Allah strike thee dead!

[FN#391] How knewest thou that? But we accept what thou sayst." Then he
ordered him a dress of honour and a thousand dinars, and he went
away rejoicing.

And among tales they tell is one of

THE MAN WHO STOLE THE DISH OF GOLD WHEREIN THE DOG ATE.

Sometime erst there was a man, who had accumulated debts, and his
case was straitened upon him, so that he left his people and family
and went forth in distraction; and he ceased not wandering on at
random till he came after a time to a city tall of walls and firm
of foundations.

He entered it in a state of despondency and despair, harried by hunger
and worn with the weariness of his way.

As he passed through one of the main streets, he saw a company of the
great going along; so he followed them till they reached a house like to
a royal-palace. He entered with them, and they stayed not faring forwards
till they came in presence of a person seated at the upper end of a
saloon, a man of the most dignified and majestic aspect, surrounded
by pages and eunuchs, as he were of the sons of the Wazirs.When
he saw the visitors, he rose to greet them and received them with
honour; but the poor man aforesaid was confounded at his own boldness,
when beholding----And Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased
to say her permitted say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Forty-first Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the poor man
aforesaid was confounded at his own boldness, when beholding the goodliness
of the place and the crowd of servants and attendants; so drawing
back, in perplexity and fear for his life sat down apart in a place
afar off. where none should see him.

Now it chanced that whilst he was sitting, behold, in came a man with
four sporting-dogs, whereon were various kinds of raw silk and
brocade[FN#392] and wearing round their necks collars of gold with
chains of silver, and tied up each dog in a place set privy for
him; after which he went out and presently returned with four dishes
of gold, full of rich meats, which he set severally before the dogs,
one for each.

Then he went away and left them, whilst the poor man began to eye
the food, for stress of hunger, and longed to go up to one of the
dogs and eat with him, but fear of them withheld him.

Presently, one of the dogs looked at him and Allah Almighty inspired the
dog with a knowledge of his case; so he drew back from the platter and
signed to the man, who came and ate till he was filled. Then he would
have withdrawn, but the dog again signed to him to take for himself
the dish and what food was left in it, and pushed it towards him with
his fore-paw. So the man took the dish and leaving the house, went
his way, and none followed him.

Then he journeyed to another city where he sold the dish and buying with
the price a stock-in-trade, returned to his own town. There he sold his
goods and paid his debts; and he throve and became affluent and
rose to perfect prosperity. He abode in his own land; but after some
years had passed he said to himself, "Needs must I repair to the city
of the owner of the dish, and, carry him a fit and handsome present and
pay him the money-value of that which his dog bestowed upon me." So
he took the price of the dish and a suitable gift; and, setting out,
journeyed day and night, till he came to that city; he entered it
and sought the place where the man lived; but he found there naught
save ruins mouldering in row and croak of crow, and house and home
desolate and all conditions in changed state.

At this, his heart and soul were troubled, and he repeated the saying
of him who saith,
"Void are the private rooms of treasury: * As void were hearts of
fear and piety:
Changed is the Wady nor are its gazelles * Those fawns, nor sand-
hills those I wont to see."

And that of another,

"In sleep came Su'adá's[FN#393] shade and wakened me * Near dawn,
when comrades all a-sleeping lay:
But waking found I that the shade was fled, * And saw air empty and
shrine far away."

Now when the man saw these mouldering ruins and witnessed what the
hand of time had manifestly done with the place, leaving but traces
of the substantial-things that erewhiles had been, a little reflection
made it needless for him to enquire of the case; so he turned away.

Presently, seeing a wretched man, in a plight which made him shudder
and feel goose-skin, and which would have moved the very rock to
rush, he said to him, "Ho thou!

What have time and fortune done with the lord of this place?

Where are his lovely faces, his shining full moons and splendid stars;
and what is the cause of the ruin that is come upon his abode, so
that nothing save the walls thereof remain?"

Quoth the other, "He is the miserable thou seest mourning that which
hath left him naked.

But knowest thou not the words of the Apostle (whom Allah bless and
keep!)

, wherein is a lesson to him who will learn by it and a warning to whoso
will be warned thereby and guided in the right way, 'Verily it is
the way of Allah Almighty to raise up nothing of this world, except
He cast it down again?'

[FN#394] If thou question of the cause of this accident, indeed it is no
wonder, considering the chances and changes of Fortune.

I was the lord of this place and I builded it and founded it and owned it;
and I was the proud possessor of its full moons lucent and its
circumstance resplendent and its damsels radiant and its garniture
magnificent, but Time turned and did away from me wealth and servants
and took from me what it had lent (not given); and brought upon me
calamities which it held in store hidden.

But there must needs be some reason for this thy question: so tell
it me and leave wondering."

Thereupon, the man who had waxed wealthy being sore concerned, told him
the whole story, and added, "I have brought thee a present, such
as souls desire, and the price of thy dish of gold which I took;
for it was the cause of my affluence after poverty, and of the
replenishment of my dwelling-place, after desolation, and of the
dispersion of my trouble and straitness."

But the man shook his head, and weeping and groaning and complaining
of his lot answered, "Ho thou!

methinks thou art mad; for this is not the way of a man of sense.
How should a dog of mine make generous gift to thee of a dish of gold
and I meanly take back the price of what a dog gave?

This were indeed a strange thing! Were I in extremest unease and misery,
by Allah, I would not accept of thee aught; no, not the worth of a
nail-paring! So return whence thou camest in health and safety."[FN#395]
Whereupon the merchant kissed his feet and taking leave of him, returned
whence he came, praising him and reciting this couplet,
"Men and dogs together are all gone by, * So peace be with all of
them!

dogs and men!'
And Allah is All knowing! Again men tell the tale of

THE SHARPER OF ALEXANDRIA AND THE CHIEF OF POLICE.

There was once in the coast-fortress of Alexandria, a Chief of
Police, Husám al-Din highs, the sharp Scymitar of the Faith.

Now one night as he sat in his seat of office, behold, there came
in to him a trooper-wight who said, "Know, O my lord the Chief,
that I entered your city this night and alighted at such a khan and
slept there till a third part of the night was past when I awoke
and found my saddle-bags sliced open and a purse of a thousand gold
pieces stolen from them."

No sooner had he done speaking than the Chief summoned his chief officials
and bade them lay hands on all in the khan and clap them in limbo
till the morning; and on the morrow, he caused bring the rods and
whips used in punishment, and, sending for the prisoners, was about
to flog them till they confessed in the presence of the owner of
the stolen money when, lo!

a man broke through the crowd till he came up to the Chief of Police,--And
Shahrazad perceived the dawn of day and ceased saying her permitted
say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Forty-second Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that the Chief was about
to flog them when lo!

a man broke through the crowd till he came up to the Chief of Police
and the trooper and said; "Ho! Emir, let these folk go, for they are
wrongously accused. It was I who robbed this trooper, and see, here
is the purse I stole from his saddle-bags." So saying, he pulled out
the purse from his sleeve and laid it before Husam al-Din, who
said to the soldier, "Take thy money and pouch it; thou now hast no ground
of complaint against the people of the khan." Thereupon these folk and
all who were present fell to praising the thief and blessing him;
but he said, "Ho! Emir, the skill is not in that I came to thee
in person and brought thee the purse; the cleverness was in taking it a
second time from this trooper." Asked the Chief, "And how didst thou do
to take it, O sharper?"

; and the robber replied, "O Emir, I was standing in the Shroff's[FN#396]
bazar at Cairo, when I saw this soldier receive the gold in change
and put it in yonder purse; so I followed him from by-street to by-
street, but found no occasion of stealing it.

Then he travelled from Cairo and I followed him from town to town,
plotting and planning by the way to rob him, but without avail,
till he entered this city and I dogged him to the khan.

I took up my lodging beside him and watched him till he fell asleep and
I heard him sleeping; when I went up to him softly, softly; and I
slit open his saddle-bags with this knife, and took the purse in
the way I am now taking it."

So saying, he put out his hand and took the purse from before the Chief
of Police and the trooper, both of whom, together with the folk,
drew back watching him and thinking he would show them how he took
the purse from the saddle-bags.

But, behold! he suddenly broke into a run and threw himself into a pool
of standing water[FN#397] hard by.

So the Chief of the Police shouted to his officers, "Stop thief!" and
many made after him; but before they could doff their clothes and
descend the steps, he had made off; and they sought for him, but
found him not; for that the by-streets and lanes of Alexandria all
communicate.

So they came back without bringing the purse; and the Chief of
Police said to the trooper, "Thou hast no demand upon the folk; for
thou fondest him who robbed thee and receivedst back thy money, but
didst not keep it."

So the trooper went away, having lost his money, whilst the folk
were delivered from his hands and those of the Chief of Police,
and all this was of the favour of Almighty Allah.

[FN#398] And they also tell the tale of

AL-MALIK AL-NASIR AND THE THREE CHIEFS OF POLICE.

Once upon a time Al-Malik al-Násir[FN#399] sent for the Wális or Chiefs
of Police of Cairo, Bulak, and Fostat[FN#400] and said to them, "I
desire each of you to recount me the marvellousest thing that hath
befallen him during his term of office."--And Shahrazad perceived the
dawn of day and ceased to say her permitted say.

When it was the Three Hundred and Forty-third Night,
She said, It hath reached me, O auspicious King, that quoth Al-Malik
al-Nasir to the three Walis, "I desire each of you to recount me the
marvellousest thing which hath befallen him during his term of
office."

So they answered, "We hear and we obey." Then said the Chief of the Police
of Cairo, "Know thou, O our lord the Sultan, the most wonderful
thing that befel me, during my term of office, was on this wise:"
and he began 

The Story of the Chief of Police of Cairo.

"There were in this city two men of good repute fit to bear
witness[FN#401] in matters of murder and wounds; but they were
both secretly addicted to intrigues with low women and to wine-
bibbing and to dissolute doings, nor could I succeed (do what I
would) in bringing them to book, and I began to despair of success.

So I charged the taverners and confectioners and fruiterers and
candle-chandlers and the keepers of brothels and bawdy houses to
acquaint me of these two good men whenever they should anywhere be
engaged in drinking or other debauchery, or together or apart; and
ordered that, if they both or if either of them bought at their
shops aught for the purpose of wassail and carousel, the vendors
should not conceal-it from me.

And they replied, 'We hear and obey.' Presently it chanced that one
night, a man came to me and said, 'O my master, know that the two
just men, the two witnesses, are in such a street in such a house, engaged
in abominable wickedness.' So I disguised myself, I and my body-servant,
and ceased not trudging till I came to the house and knocked at the door,
whereupon a slave-girl came out and opened to me, saying, 'Who art thou?'
I entered without answering her and saw the two legal-witnesses
and the house-master sitting, and lewd women by their side and
before them great plenty of wine.

When they saw me, they rose to receive me, and made much of me,
seating me in the place of honour and saying to me, 'Welcome for
an illustrious guest and well come for a pleasant cup- companion!'

And on this wise they met me without showing a sign of alarm or trouble.
Presently, the master of the house arose from amongst us and went out and
returned after a while with three hundred dinars, when the men said to
me, without the least fear, 'Know, O our lord the Wali, it is in thy
power to do even more than disgrace and punish us; but this will
bring thee in return nothing but weariness: so we reck thou wouldest
do better to take this much money and protect us; for Almighty
Allah is named the Protector and loveth those of His servants who protect
their Moslem neighbours; and thou shalt have thy reward in this world and
due recompense in the world to come.' So I said to myself, 'I will
take the money and protect them this once, but, if ever again I
have them in my power, I will take my wreak of them;' for, you see,
the money had tempted me. Thereupon I took it and went away thinking
that no one would know it; but, next day, on a sudden one of the
Kazi's messengers came to me and said to me, 'O Wali, be good enough
to answer the summons of the Kazi who wanteth thee.'

So I arose and accompanied him, knowing not the meaning of all this;
and when I came into the judge's presence, I saw the two witnesses
and the master of the house, who had given me the money, sitting
by his side.

Thereupon this man rose and sued me for three hundred dinars, nor was
it in my power to deny the debt; for he produced a written obligation
and his two companions, the legal witnesses, testified against me that I
owed the amount. Their evidence satisfied the Kazi and he ordered me
to pay the sum, nor did I leave the Court till they had of me the three
hundred gold pieces.
"'Tis not for nought that the raven sings now on my left and, croaking,
has once scraped the earth with his feet," wrote Plautus.

Other references to the same bird are as follows:

     "The raven himself is hoarse
     That croaks the fatal entrance of Duncan
     Under my battlements."--(_Macbeth._)

     "It comes o'er my memory
     As doth the raven o'er the infected house,
     Boding to all."--(_Othello._)

     "That tolls
     The sick man's passport in her hollow beak,
     And in the shadow of the silent night
     Doth shake contagion from her sable wings."
     (_Jew of Malta._)

  "Is it not ominous in all countries where crows
  and ravens croak upon trees?"--(_Hudibras._)

     "The boding raven on her cottage sat,
     And with hoarse croakings warned us of our fate."
     (_The Dirge._)

"In Cornwall," writes Mr. Hunt, in his work on popular beliefs, etc., of
the West of England, "it is believed that the croaking of a raven over
the house bodes evil to some of the family. The following incident,
given to me by a really intelligent man, illustrates the feeling:

"'One day our family were much annoyed by the continual croaking of a
raven over the house. Some of us believed it to be a token; others
derided the idea. But one good lady, our next-door neighbour, said:

"'"Just mark the day, and see if something does not come of it."

"'The day and hour were carefully noted. Months passed away, and
unbelievers were loud in their boastings and enquiries after the token.
The fifth month arrived, and with it a black-edged letter from
Australia, announcing the death of one of the members of the family in
that country. On comparing the dates of the death and the raven's croak,
they were found to have occurred on the same day.'"

In an old number of _Notes and Queries_ a correspondent relates that in
Somersetshire the appearance of a single jackdaw is regarded as a sure
prognostication of evil. He goes on to add that the men employed in the
quarries in the Avon Gorge, Clifton, Bristol, had more than once noticed
a jackdaw perched on the chain that spanned the river, prior to some
catastrophe among them.

Dead magpies were once hung over the doorways of haunted houses to keep
away ghosts; it being almost universally believed that all phantasms
shared the same dread of this bird. Ghosts of magpies themselves are,
however, far from uncommon; on Dartmoor and Exmoor, for example, I have
seen several of them, generally in the immediate vicinity of bogs or
deep holes.

Witches were much attached to this bird, and were said to often assume
its shape after death.

"Magpies," says Mr. William Jones, in his _Credulities, Past and
Present_, "are mysterious everywhere. A lady living near Carlstad, in
Sweden, grievously offended a farm woman who came into the court of her
house asking for food. The woman was told 'to take that magpie hanging
upon the wall and eat it.' She took the bird and disappeared, with an
evil glance at the lady, who had been so ill-advised as to insult a
Finn, whose magical powers, it is well known, far exceed those of the
gipsies." (Other authorities corroborate this statement; and I have
heard it said that the Finns can surpass even the famous tricks of the
Indians.) Mr. Jones, in the same story, says: "Presently the number
increased, and the lady, who at first had been amused, became troubled,
and tried to drive them away by various devices. All was to no purpose.
She could not move without a large company of magpies; and they became
at length so daring as to hop on her shoulder." (This reads like
hallucination. However, as I have heard of similar cases, in which there
has been no doubt as to the objectivity of the phenomena, I see no
reason why these magpies should not have been objective too.) "Then she
took to her bed in a room with closed shutters, although even this was
not an effectual protection, for the magpies kept tapping at the
shutters day and night." Mr. Jones adds: "The lady's death is not
recorded; but it is fully expected that, die when she may, all the
magpies of Wermland will be present at her funeral."

There is a house in Great Russell Street, W.C., where the hauntings take
the form of a magpie that taps at one of the windows every morning
between two and three, and then appears inside the room, perched on what
looks like a huge alpine stick, suspended horizontally in the air, about
seven feet from the floor. The moment a sound is made the apparition
vanishes. It is thought to be the spirit of a magpie that was done to
death in a very cruel manner in that room many years ago. There is a
story current to the effect that a lady, when visiting the British
Museum one day, happened to pass some slighting remark about one of the
Egyptian mummy cases (not the notorious one), and that on quitting the
building she felt a sharp peck on her neck. She put up her hand to the
injured part, and felt the distinct impression of a bird's claw on it.
She could see nothing, however. [FN#34] A traditional-saying of
Mohammed.

[FN#35] So Boccaccio's "Capo bianco" and "Coda verde." (Day iv., Introduct.)

[FN#36] The opening chapter is known as the "Mother of the Book" (as opposed
to Yá Sín, the "heart of the Koran"), the "Surat (chapter) of Praise,"
and the "Surat of repetition" (because twice revealed?) or thanksgiving,
or laudation (Ai-Masáni) and by a host of other names for which see Mr.
Rodwell who, however, should not write "Fatthah" (p. xxv.) nor "Fathah"
(xxvii.). The Fátihah, which is to Al-Islam much what the "Paternoster"
is to Christendom, consists of seven verses, in the usual-Saj'a or rhymed
prose, and I have rendered it as follows:

     In the name of the Compassionating,
     the Compassionate! * Praise be to Allah
     who all the Worlds made * The
     Compassionating, the Compassionate * King of the Day of Faith!

* Thee only do we adore and of Thee only do we crave aid * Guide
us to the path which is straight * The path of those for whom Thy
love is great, not those on whom is hate, nor they that deviate *
Amen!

     O Lord of the World's trine.
     

My Pilgrimage (i. 285; ii. 78 and passim) will supply instances of its
application; how it is recited with open hands to catch the blessing
from Heaven and the palms are drawn down the face (Ibid. i. 286), and
other details,
[FN#37] i.e. when the evil eye has less effect than upon children.
Strangers in Cairo often wonder to see a woman richly dressed leading
by the hand a filthy little boy (rarely a girl) in rags, which at home
will be changed to cloth of gold.

[FN#38] Arab. "Asídah" flour made consistent by boiling in water
with the addition of "Same" clarified butter) and honey: more like
pap than custard.

[FN#39] Arab.

"Ghábah" = I have explained as a low-lying place where the growth is
thickest and consequently animals haunt it during the noon-heats
[FN#40] Arab.

"Akkám," one who loads camels and has charge of the luggage. He also
corresponds with the modern Mukharrij or camel-hirer (Pilgrimage
i. 339), and hence the word Moucre (Moucres) which, first used by
La Brocquière (A.D. 1432), is still the only term known to the
French.

[FN#41] i.e. I am old and can no longer travel.

[FN#42] Taken from Al-Asma'i, the "Romance of Antar," and the episode
of the Asafir Camels.

[FN#43] A Mystic of the twelfth century A.D. who founded the Kádirí
order (the oldest and chiefest of the four universally recognised),
to which I have the honour to belong, teste my diploma (Pilgrimage,
Appendix i.).

Visitation is still made to his tomb at Baghdad. The Arabs (who have
no hard g-letter) alter to "Jílán" the name of his birth-place "Gilan,"
a tract between the Caspian and the Black Seas.

[FN#44] The well-known Anglo-Indian "Mucuddum;" lit.

"one placed before (or over) others"
[FN#45] Koran xiii. 14.

[FN#46] i.e.. his chastity: this fashion of objecting to infamous
proposals is very characteristic: ruder races would use their fists.

[FN#47] Arab. "Ráfizí"=the Shi'ah (tribe, sect) or Persian schismatics
who curse the first three Caliphs: the name is taken from their
own saying "Inná rafizná-hum"=verily we have rejected them.

The feeling between Sunni (the so-called orthodox) and Shi'ah is much
like the Christian love between a Catholic of Cork and a Protestant
from the Black North. As Al-Siyuti or any historian will show, this
sect became exceedingly powerful under the later Abbaside Caliphs, many
of whom conformed to it and adopted its tractices and innovations (as
in the Azan or prayer-call), greatly to the scandal-of their
co-religionists.
Even in the present day the hatred between these representatives
of Arab monotheism and Persian Guebrism continues unabated.

I have given sundry instances m my Pilgrimage, e.g. how the Persians attempt
to pollute the tombs of the Caliphs they abhor.
[FN#48] Arab. "Sakká," the Indian "Bihishtí" (man from Heaven):
Each party in a caravan has one or more.
[FN#49] These "Kirámát" or Saints' miracles, which Spiritualists
will readily accept, are recorded in vast numbers.I believe there is a certain amount
of truth in this--at all events cocks, as I myself have proved, are
invariably sensitive to the presence of the superphysical.

The whistler is also a very psychic bird. Spenser, in his _Faerie
Queene_ (Book II, canto xii, st. 31), alludes to it thus:--

     "The whistler shrill, that whoso hears doth die";

whilst Sir Walter Scott refers to it in a similar sense in his _Lady of
the Lake_.

The yellow-hammer was formerly the object of much persecution, since it
was believed that it received three drops of the devil's blood on its
feather every May morning, and never appeared without presaging ill
luck. Parrots do not appear to be very susceptible to the influence of
the Unknown, and indicate little or no dread of superphysical
demonstrations.

Doves, wrens, and robins are birds of good omen, and the many
superstitions regarding them are all associated with good luck. Doves, I
have found in particular, are very safe psychic barometers in haunted
houses.

It is almost universally held to be unlucky to kill a robin. A
correspondent of _Notes and Queries_ (Fourth Series, vol. viii, p. 505)
remarks:

"I took the following down from the mouth of a young miner:

"'My father killed a robin and had terrible bad luck after it. He had at
that time a pig which was ready for pipping; she had a litter of seven,
and they all died. When the pig was killed the two hams went bad;
presently three of the family had a fever, and my father himself died of
it. The neighbours said it was all through killing the robin.'"

George Smith, in his _Six Pastorals_ (1770), says:

     "I found a robin's nest within our shed,
     And in the barn a wren has young ones bred;
     I never take away their nest, nor try
     To catch the old ones, lest a friend should die.
     Dick took a wren's nest from the cottage side,
     And ere a twelvemonth pass'd his mother dy'd!"

In Yorkshire it was once firmly believed that if a robin were killed,
the cows belonging to the family of the destroyer of the bird would,
for some time, only give bloody milk. At one time--and, perhaps, even
now--the robin and wren, out of sheer pity, used to cover the bodies of
those that died in the woods with leaves.

Webster, in his _Tragedy of Vittoria Corombona_ (1612), refers to this
touching habit of these birds thus:

     "Call for the robin redbreast and the wren,
     Since o'er the shady groves they hover,
     And with leaves and flowers do cover
     The friendless bodies of unburied men."

Not so harmless is the stormy petrel, whose advent is looked upon by
sailors as a sure sign of an impending storm, accompanied by much loss
of life.

The vulture and eagle, obviously on account of their ferocious
dispositions, often remain earth-bound after death, and usually select
as their haunts, spots little frequented by man. From what I have heard
they are by far the most malignant of all bird ghosts, and have even
been known to inflict physical injury on those who have had the
misfortune to pass the night within their allotted precincts.


Herodotus mentions an emerald seal-set in amber, that of Polycrates,
the employment of Theodorus, daughter of Telecles the Samian( iii.
141).

The Copt besides were absolutely acquainted with working in cameo(
cameo) and sculpture, as may be seen in the cavo relief of the
finest of their writing.

The Koine adopt from them the anaglyph and use it to gems( e.g. Tryphon's
in the Marlborough aggregation), and they will the decoupage to the Romans.
We say in a modern volume" Cameo intend an onyx, and the most famous
cameo in the universe is the onyx incorporate the model of Octavian."
The halo is yield in matrimony because it was a seal--by which
orders were subscribe( information. xxxviii. 18 and Esther iii. 10-12).
I may observe that the seal-ring of Cheops( Khufu), found in the Greatest
Pyramid, was in the retention of my old person, doc Abbott, of
Auburn( America), and was sell with his collection. It is the oldest
carabiner in the world, and decide the Cheops-question.[FN#22] This
custom of cry when amigo meet after retentive departure is customary,
I have observe, amongst the American" Amerind," the Badawin of the
New nature; they cast snivel construction of the person they have
lost.

Like most primitive citizenry they are ever ready to weep as was Æneas
or Shakespeare's saline individual," This would do a male, a man of salt
To usage his eyes for plot waterpots."( sovereign Lear, iv. 6.)[FN#23]
hither poetical-justice is not done; in most Arab message the two
adulterous queen would have been set to birth.[FN#24] Pronounce Aladdin
Abush-Shámát.[FN#25] Bahraini." Misr," vulg. Masr: a distant connexion
of Misraim the" two Misrs," Egypt, upper and lower.[FN#26] The
Persians however name their diplomat" Shah-bander," light. sovereign
of the Bandar or embrasure.[FN#27] Arab." Dukhúl," the period of travel
in, of understand the bride uncover for the first time, etcaetera.[FN#28]
Arab." Barsh" or" barroom," the commonest kind. In Bharat it is called
Ma'jún(=electuary, mostly): it is make of Ganja or old leaves, flower,
container and flower of kenaf( C. spit), poppy-seed and bloom of the
thorn-apple( daiura) with milk and auger-candy, spice,
cloves, mace and ocher, all churn to the consistency of treacle which
hardens when cold. Several-recipes are given by Herklots(
wordbook s.v. Majoon). These electuaries are usually prepared with"
Charas," or liquidambar of kenaf, accumulate by manus or by passing
a afghan over the brewery in middle morning, and it is extremely
intoxicating.

Another intoxicant is" Sabzi," dried hemp-leaves, poppy-seed, cucumber
heed, white capsicum and cardamon fray down in a vessel with a
wooden machine, and made drinkable by append milk, ice-cream, etc. The
Hashish of Arabia is the Hindustani Bhang, normally intoxicated
and make as follows. Take of hemp-leaves, good rinse, 3 drams black
capsicum 45 atom and of cloves, spice and chloroacetophenone( which
append to the intoxication) each 12 cereal.

Triturate in 8 ounces of water or the juice of watermelon or gherkin,
stress and helping.

The Egyptian Zabíbah is a readying of kenaf florets, opium and
honey, much affected by the lower summons, whence the proverb:"
pique thy grief with Zabibah.

In Al-Hijaz it is mixed with raisins( Zabíb) and fume in the
water-pipe.( Burck hardt ordinal 73.)

Besides these thither is( 1)" Post" poppy-seed prepared in various
structure but particularly in sugared sherbert;( 2) Datura( stramonium)
coffee, the vegetable of the thorn-apple breached and put into
sweetmeats by dishonest candymaker; it is a unsafe intoxicant,
producing spectral-visions, delirium tremens, etcetera, and( 3)
various readying of narcotic particularly the" Madad," bolus make
down with toasted betel-leaf and fume.

Opium, however, is normally drunk in the spatiality of" Kusumba,"
a pill placed in dry cotton and squeezed in summons to flourish and
uncontaminating it of the cowdung and same filth with which it is
adulterated.

[FN#29] Arab."

Sikankúr"( Gr.{Greek letters}, Lat.

Scincus) a saurian( S. officinalis) which, keep in the hand, still
acts as an aphrodisiac in the East, and which in the Middle age
was see a universal-medicine.

In the" Adja'ib al-Hind"( LE Merveilles de l'Inde) we lose a
announcement of a bald-headed old homo who was oblige to ignore his
battle-ax twice a day and twice a period in phenomenon of having
feed a certain food.( Chaps.

Ixxviii. of the pony by M. L. Marcel Devic, from a writing of the tenth
century, Paris Lemaire, 1878.

)
--DAVID HUME.

"Scarcely less interesting as an anthology of prose and verse extracts
about Re-incarnation from ancient and modern writers, than as a detailed
exposition of the theory itself."--_Athenæum._


WILLIAM RIDER AND SON, LTD.

8-11 PATERNOSTER ROW, LONDON, E.C.