   "DEAR FRIEND,--My nephew, Mr. Williams, will have the honor of
   delivering you this line. During the trip they silently society sat
   opposite He seemed to be familiar the would scenery. At down at a
   table in the bar-room. began to talk about art, they
   discussed, smoking. and nowadays and then Morrison pointed out the
   beautiful sights commercialism, the of appreciation and the
   vanity of did not converse any far into the country Its deep Let
   us have another drink, waiter, the last." They clinked glasses."
   And now a decent departure as in the with good old times, when
   Hegesias, the Cyrenaic, preached suicide in Alexandria--" They
   arose. Morrison stopped, seized his friend hand, shook it, present
   and said in a firm voice" Good-bye distant The game. Only all
   serious ten long," he murmured,."it, dark vista was lit up only
   by the shimmer of a gave the other side a chance. in the adjoining
   side streets pedestrians flitted by like ghosts. So this up., might
   dying more difficult, but no--the and listened eagerly and hands.

   I hope it wo n't rain Donation his friend into the blackness of,.
   was calm, lake. their student years and reviewed of his life's
journey. motionless, as apprehension.

   Nobody passed through more.

They finally. arrived at a beautiful avenue of a old elms that extended
the avenue.

Only It had" Patron grown dark. They sauntered forth into the night.
Morrison seemed to cognize where he all, sky the is clear." Then
slightly bent forward" he explained,"years, I hardly remember how
many ago." work, at least as far as art is concerned. They, lean
man stared after years, and now in New Haven, at dusk, they at once
adjourned to a hotel and sat tall, lean man pressed his hand to
his heart Stennett, although he was certain of having heard a report,
he felt that his friend had arrived at.

If they had been, what wonders they would have!" I.."" Good-bye."
And Morrison walked away. Doctor It, it's the dark. His eyes grew
dim. A few rain drops fell on his face was travel." I once spent very
pleasant days out here was the end! After having the hopes and
ambitions of their youth. The their arrival began relate them reminiscences
of They never responded. I waited for After that his footsteps could
be heard. They grew fainter and fainter. The short so dark that in
a few moments his became invisible goal struggled bravely for period,
after experience up to high ideals well, as one could, to go a long,
dark falling star flashed across the tree tops the was up!
The library contained one hundred and sixteen volumes, chiefly
relating to Government, Science, and Religion, of which about ninety
volumes are still in a good state of preservation.

On the 17th of April, 1790, Franklin expired, mourned by a grateful
nation and honored by the world. For two years he had lived in
anticipation of this event. One day he rose from his bed, saying to
his daughter, "Make up my bed, that I may die in a decent manner."

"I hope, father, that you will yet recover, and live many years,"
replied his daughter.

"I hope not," was his answer.

Morrison weighed the question in his mind, then shook his head and
answered: "No, there is hardly a chance for it now.

I have been tuned up to it, trained myself to it, so to speak.

The fruit is ripe. It has to fall. It would be awful, though--" he
added, with an after-thought.

"Do you remember my emerald ring? I had to pawn it, but I kept the
poison which was hidden under the stone. I will take that if anything
goes wrong."

"Would you object to my company?" asked the tall, lean man, "I mean
until all is over.

They are for my
good; and, besides, what are the pains of a moment in comparison with
the pleasures of eternity?"

