Transcribed from the 1911 Methuen & Co. (third) edition by David Price,
email ccx074@pglaf.org.  Proofing by Margaret and David Price.


REGINALD


BY
SAKI
(H. H. MUNRO)

THIRD EDITION

METHUEN & CO. LTD.
36 ESSEX STREET W.C.
LONDON

_First Published_ . . . _September 1904_

_Second Edition_ . . . _July 1905_

_Third Edition_ . . . _1911_

_These sketches originally appeared in the_ "_Westminster Gazette_," _to
the courtesy of the Proprietor of which the author is indebted for
permission to republish them_.

Contents:

Reginald

Reginald on Christmas Presents

Reginald on the Academy

Reginald at the Theatre

Reginald's Peace Poem

Reginald's Choir Treat

Reginald on Worries

Reginald on House-Parties

Reginald at the Carlton

Reginald on Besetting Sins

Reginald's Drama

Reginald on Tariffs

Reginald's Christmas Revel

Reginald's Rubaiyat

The Innocence of Reginald


REGINALD


I did it--I who should have known better.  I persuaded Reginald to go to
the McKillops' garden-party against his will.

We all make mistakes occasionally.

"They know you're here, and they'll think it so funny if you don't go.
And I want particularly to be in with Mrs. McKillop just now."

"I know, you want one of her smoke Persian kittens as a prospective wife
for Wumples--or a husband, is it?"  (Reginald has a magnificent scorn for
details, other than sartorial.)  "And I am expected to undergo social
martyrdom to suit the connubial exigencies"--

"Reginald!  It's nothing of the kind, only I'm sure Mrs. McKillop Would
be pleased if I brought you.  Young men of your brilliant attractions are
rather at a premium at her garden-parties."

"Should be at a premium in heaven," remarked Reginald complacently.

"There will be very few of you there, if that is what you mean.  But
seriously, there won't be any great strain upon your powers of endurance;
I promise you that you shan't have to play croquet, or talk to the
Archdeacon's wife, or do anything that is likely to bring on physical
prostration.  You can just wear your sweetest clothes and moderately
amiable expression, and eat chocolate-creams with the appetite of a
_blase_ parrot.  Nothing more is demanded of you."

Reginald shut his eyes.  "There will be the exhaustingly up-to-date young
women who will ask me if I have seen _San Toy_; a less progressive grade
who will yearn to hear about the Diamond Jubilee--the historic event, not
the horse.  With a little encouragement, they will inquire if I saw the
Allies march into Paris.  Why are women so fond of raking up the past?
They're as bad as tailors, who invariably remember what you owe them for
a suit long after you've ceased to wear it."

"I'll order lunch for one o'clock; that will give you two and a half
hours to dress in."

Reginald puckered his brow into a tortured frown, and I knew that my
point was gained.  He was debating what tie would go with which
waistcoat.

Even then I had my misgivings.

* * * * *

During the drive to the McKillops' Reginald was possessed with a great
peace, which was not wholly to be accounted for by the fact that he had
inveigled his feet into shoes a size too small for them.  I misgave more
than ever, and having once launched Reginald on to the McKillops' lawn, I
established him near a seductive dish of _marrons glaces_, and as far
from the Archdeacon's wife as possible; as I drifted away to a diplomatic
distance I heard with painful distinctness the eldest Mawkby girl asking
him if he had seen _San Toy_.

It must have been ten minutes later, not more, and I had been having
_quite_ an enjoyable chat with my hostess, and had promised to lend her
_The Eternal City_ and my recipe for rabbit mayonnaise, and was just
about to offer a kind home for her third Persian kitten, when I
perceived, out of the corner of my eye, that Reginald was not where I had
left him, and that the _marrons glaces_ were untasted.  At the same
moment I became aware that old Colonel Mendoza was essaying to tell his
classic story of how he introduced golf into India, and that Reginald was
in dangerous proximity.  There are occasions when Reginald is caviare to
the Colonel.

"When I was at Poona in '76"--

"My dear Colonel," purred Reginald, "fancy admitting such a thing!  Such
a give-away for one's age!  I wouldn't admit being on this planet in
'76."  (Reginald in his wildest lapses into veracity never admits to
being more than twenty-two.)

The Colonel went to the colour of a fig that has attained great ripeness,
and Reginald, ignoring my efforts to intercept him, glided away to
another part of the lawn.  I found him a few minutes later happily
engaged in teaching the youngest Rampage boy the approved theory of
mixing absinthe, within full earshot of his mother.  Mrs. Rampage
occupies a prominent place in local Temperance movements.

As soon as I had broken up this unpromising _tete-a-tete_ and settled
Reginald where he could watch the croquet players losing their tempers, I
wandered off to find my hostess and renew the kitten negotiations at the
point where they had been interrupted.  I did not succeed in running her
down at once, and eventually it was Mrs. McKillop who sought me out, and
her conversation was not of kittens.

"Your cousin is discussing _Zaza_ with the Archdeacon's wife; at least,
he is discussing, she is ordering her carriage."

She spoke in the dry, staccato tone of one who repeats a French exercise,
and I knew that as far as Millie McKillop was concerned, Wumples was
devoted to a lifelong celibacy.

"If you don't mind," I said hurriedly, "I think we'd like our carriage
ordered too," and I made a forced march in the direction of the croquet-
ground.

I found everyone talking nervously and feverishly of the weather and the
war in South Africa, except Reginald, who was reclining in a comfortable
chair with the dreamy, far-away look that a volcano might wear just after
it had desolated entire villages.  The Archdeacon's wife was buttoning up
her gloves with a concentrated deliberation that was fearful to behold.  I
shall have to treble my subscription to her Cheerful Sunday Evenings Fund
before I dare set foot in her house again.

At that particular moment the croquet players finished their game, which
had been going on without a symptom of finality during the whole
afternoon.  Why, I ask, should it have stopped precisely when a counter-
attraction was so necessary?  Everyone seemed to drift towards the area
of disturbance, of which the chairs of the Archdeacon's wife and Reginald
formed the storm-centre.  Conversation flagged, and there settled upon
the company that expectant hush that precedes the dawn--when your
neighbours don't happen to keep poultry.

"What did the Caspian Sea?" asked Reginald, with appalling suddenness.

There were symptoms of a stampede.  The Archdeacon's wife looked at me.
Kipling or someone has described somewhere the look a foundered camel
gives when the caravan moves on and leaves it to its fate.  The
peptonised reproach in the good lady's eyes brought the passage vividly
to my mind.

I played my last card.

"Reginald, it's getting late, and a sea-mist is coming on."  I knew that
the elaborate curl over his right eyebrow was not guaranteed to survive a
sea-mist.

* * * * *

"Never, never again, will I take you to a garden-party.  Never . . . You
behaved abominably . . . What did the Caspian see?"

A shade of genuine regret for misused opportunities passed over
Reginald's face.

"After all," he said, "I believe an apricot tie would have gone better
with the lilac waistcoat."


REGINALD ON CHRISTMAS PRESENTS


I wish it to be distinctly understood (said Reginald) that I don't want a
"George, Prince of Wales" Prayer-book as a Christmas present.  The fact
cannot be too widely known.

There ought (he continued) to be technical education classes on the
science of present-giving.  No one seems to have the faintest notion of
what anyone else wants, and the prevalent ideas on the subject are not
creditable to a civilised community.

There is, for instance, the female relative in the country who "knows a
tie is always useful," and sends you some spotted horror that you could
only wear in secret or in Tottenham Court Road.  It _might_ have been
useful had she kept it to tie up currant bushes with, when it would have
served the double purpose of supporting the branches and frightening away
the birds--for it is an admitted fact that the ordinary tomtit of
commerce has a sounder aesthetic taste than the average female relative
in the country.

Then there are aunts.  They are always a difficult class to deal with in
the matter of presents.  The trouble is that one never catches them
really young enough.  By the time one has educated them to an
appreciation of the fact that one does not wear red woollen mittens in
the West End, they die, or quarrel with the family, or do something
equally inconsiderate.  That is why the supply of trained aunts is always
so precarious.

There is my Aunt Agatha, _par exemple_, who sent me a pair of gloves last
Christmas, and even got so far as to choose a kind that was being worn
and had the correct number of buttons.  But--_they were nines_!  I sent
them to a boy whom I hated intimately: he didn't wear them, of course,
but he could have--that was where the bitterness of death came in.  It
was nearly as consoling as sending white flowers to his funeral.  Of
course I wrote and told my aunt that they were the one thing that had
been wanting to make existence blossom like a rose; I am afraid she
thought me frivolous--she comes from the North, where they live in the
fear of Heaven and the Earl of Durham.  (Reginald affects an exhaustive
knowledge of things political, which furnishes an excellent excuse for
not discussing them.)  Aunts with a dash of foreign extraction in them
are the most satisfactory in the way of understanding these things; but
if you can't choose your aunt, it is wisest in the long-run to choose the
present and send her the bill.

Even friends of one's own set, who might be expected to know better, have
curious delusions on the subject.  I am _not_ collecting copies of the
cheaper editions of Omar Khayyam.  I gave the last four that I received
to the lift-boy, and I like to think of him reading them, with
FitzGerald's notes, to his aged mother.  Lift-boys always have aged
mothers; shows such nice feeling on their part, I think.

Personally, I can't see where the difficulty in choosing suitable
presents lies.  No boy who had brought himself up properly could fail to
appreciate one of those decorative bottles of liqueurs that are so
reverently staged in Morel's window--and it wouldn't in the least matter
if one did get duplicates.  And there would always be the supreme moment
of dreadful uncertainty whether it was _creme de menthe_ or
Chartreuse--like the expectant thrill on seeing your partner's hand
turned up at bridge.  People may say what they like about the decay of
Christianity; the religious system that produced green Chartreuse can
never really die.

And then, of course, there are liqueur glasses, and crystallised fruits,
and tapestry curtains, and heaps of other necessaries of life that make
really sensible presents--not to speak of luxuries, such as having one's
bills paid, or getting something quite sweet in the way of jewellery.
Unlike the alleged Good Woman of the Bible, I'm not above rubies.  When
found, by the way, she must have been rather a problem at Christmas-time;
nothing short of a blank cheque would have fitted the situation.  Perhaps
it's as well that she's died out.

The great charm about me (concluded Reginald) is that I am so easily
pleased.  But I draw the line at a "Prince of Wales" Prayer-book.


REGINALD ON THE ACADEMY


"One goes to the Academy in self-defence," said Reginald.  "It is the one
topic one has in common with the Country Cousins."

"It is almost a religious observance with them," said the Other.  "A kind
of artistic Mecca, and when the good ones die they go"--

"To the Chantrey Bequest.  The mystery is _what_ they find to talk about
in the country."

"There are two subjects of conversation in the country: Servants, and Can
fowls be made to pay?  The first, I believe, is compulsory, the second
optional."

"As a function," resumed Reginald, "the Academy is a failure."

"You think it would be tolerable without the pictures?"

"The pictures are all right, in their way; after all, one can always
_look_ at them if one is bored with one's surroundings, or wants to avoid
an imminent acquaintance."

"Even that doesn't always save one.  There is the inevitable female whom
you met once in Devonshire, or the Matoppo Hills, or somewhere, who
charges up to you with the remark that it's funny how one always meets
people one knows at the Academy.  Personally, I _don't_ think it funny."

"I suffered in that way just now," said Reginald plaintively, "from a
woman whose word I had to take that she had met me last summer in
Brittany."

"I hope you were not too brutal?"

"I merely told her with engaging simplicity that the art of life was the
avoidance of the unattainable."

"Did she try and work it out on the back of her catalogue?"

"Not there and then.  She murmured something about being 'so clever.'
Fancy coming to the Academy to be clever!"

"To be clever in the afternoon argues that one is dining nowhere in the
evening."

"Which reminds me that I can't remember whether I accepted an invitation
from you to dine at Kettner's to-night."

"On the other hand, I can remember with startling distinctness not having
asked you to."

"So much certainty is unbecoming in the young; so we'll consider that
settled.  What were you talking about?  Oh, pictures.  Personally, I
rather like them; they are so refreshingly real and probable, they take
one away from the unrealities of life."

"One likes to escape from oneself occasionally."

"That is the disadvantage of a portrait; as a rule, one's bitterest
friends can find nothing more to ask than the faithful unlikeness that
goes down to posterity as oneself.  I hate posterity--it's so fond of
having the last word.  Of course, as regards portraits, there are
exceptions."

"For instance?"

"To die before being painted by Sargent is to go to heaven prematurely."

"With the necessary care and impatience, you may avoid that catastrophe."

"If you're going to be rude," said Reginald, "I shall dine with you to-
morrow night as well.  The chief vice of the Academy," he continued, "is
its nomenclature.  Why, for instance, should an obvious trout-stream with
a palpable rabbit sitting in the foreground be called 'an evening dream
of unbeclouded peace,' or something of that sort?"

"You think," said the Other, "that a name should economise description
rather than stimulate imagination?"

"Properly chosen, it should do both.  There is my lady kitten at home,
for instance; I've called it Derry."

"Suggests nothing to my imagination but protracted sieges and religious
animosities.  Of course, I don't know your kitten"--

"Oh, you're silly.  It's a sweet name, and it answers to it--when it
wants to.  Then, if there are any unseemly noises in the night, they can
be explained succinctly: Derry and Toms."

"You might almost charge for the advertisement.  But as applied to
pictures, don't you think your system would be too subtle, say, for the
Country Cousins?"

"Every reformation must have its victims.  You can't expect the fatted
calf to share the enthusiasm of the angels over the prodigal's return.
Another darling weakness of the Academy is that none of its luminaries
must 'arrive' in a hurry.  You can see them coming for years, like a
Balkan trouble or a street improvement, and by the time they have painted
a thousand or so square yards of canvas, their work begins to be
recognised."

"Someone who Must Not be Contradicted said that a man must be a success
by the time he's thirty, or never."

"To have reached thirty," said Reginald, "is to have failed in life."


REGINALD AT THE THEATRE


"After all," said the Duchess vaguely, "there are certain things you
can't get away from.  Right and wrong, good conduct and moral rectitude,
have certain well-defined limits."

"So, for the matter of that," replied Reginald, "has the Russian Empire.
The trouble is that the limits are not always in the same place."

Reginald and the Duchess regarded each other with mutual distrust,
tempered by a scientific interest.  Reginald considered that the Duchess
had much to learn; in particular, not to hurry out of the Carlton as
though afraid of losing one's last 'bus.  A woman, he said, who is
careless of disappearances is capable of leaving town before Goodwood,
and dying at the wrong moment of an unfashionable disease.

The Duchess thought that Reginald did not exceed the ethical standard
which circumstances demanded.

"Of course," she resumed combatively, "it's the prevailing fashion to
believe in perpetual change and mutability, and all that sort of thing,
and to say we are all merely an improved form of primeval ape--of course
you subscribe to that doctrine?"

"I think it decidedly premature; in most people I know the process is far
from complete."

"And equally of course you are quite irreligious?"

"Oh, by no means.  The fashion just now is a Roman Catholic frame of mind
with an Agnostic conscience: you get the mediaeval picturesqueness of the
one with the modern conveniences of the other."

The Duchess suppressed a sniff.  She was one of those people who regard
the Church of England with patronising affection, as if it were something
that had grown up in their kitchen garden.

"But there are other things," she continued, "which I suppose are to a
certain extent sacred even to you.  Patriotism, for instance, and Empire,
and Imperial responsibility, and blood-is-thicker-than-water, and all
that sort of thing."

Reginald waited for a couple of minutes before replying, while the Lord
of Rimini temporarily monopolised the acoustic possibilities of the
theatre.

"That is the worst of a tragedy," he observed, "one can't always hear
oneself talk.  Of course I accept the Imperial idea and the
responsibility.  After all, I would just as soon think in Continents as
anywhere else.  And some day, when the season is over and we have the
time, you shall explain to me the exact blood-brotherhood and all that
sort of thing that exists between a French Canadian and a mild Hindoo and
a Yorkshireman, for instance."

"Oh, well, 'dominion over palm and pine,' you know," quoted the Duchess
hopefully; "of course we mustn't forget that we're all part of the great
Anglo-Saxon Empire."

"Which for its part is rapidly becoming a suburb of Jerusalem.  A very
pleasant suburb, I admit, and quite a charming Jerusalem.  But still a
suburb."

"Really, to be told one's living in a suburb when one is conscious of
spreading the benefits of civilisation all over the world!  Philanthropy--I
suppose you will say _that_ is a comfortable delusion; and yet even you
must admit that whenever want or misery or starvation is known to exist,
however distant or difficult of access, we instantly organise relief on
the most generous scale, and distribute it, if need be, to the uttermost
ends of the earth."

The Duchess paused, with a sense of ultimate triumph.  She had made the
same observation at a drawing-room meeting, and it had been extremely
well received.

"I wonder," said Reginald, "if you have ever walked down the Embankment
on a winter night?"

"Gracious, no, child!  Why do you ask?"

"I didn't; I only wondered.  And even your philanthropy, practised in a
world where everything is based on competition, must have a debit as well
as a credit account.  The young ravens cry for food."

"And are fed."

"Exactly.  Which presupposes that something else is fed upon."

"Oh, you're simply exasperating.  You've been reading Nietzsche till you
haven't got any sense of moral proportion left.  May I ask if you are
governed by _any_ laws of conduct whatever?"

"There are certain fixed rules that one observes for one's own comfort.
For instance, never be flippantly rude to any inoffensive grey-bearded
stranger that you may meet in pine forests or hotel smoking-rooms on the
Continent.  It always turns out to be the King of Sweden."

"The restraint must be dreadfully irksome to you.  When I was younger,
boys of your age used to be nice and innocent."

"Now we are only nice.  One must specialise in these days.  Which reminds
me of the man I read of in some sacred book who was given a choice of
what he most desired.  And because he didn't ask for titles and honours
and dignities, but only for immense wealth, these other things came to
him also."

"I am sure you didn't read about him in any sacred book."

"Yes; I fancy you will find him in Debrett."


REGINALD'S PEACE POEM


"I'm writing a poem on Peace," said Reginald, emerging from a sweeping
operation through a tin of mixed biscuits, in whose depths a macaroon or
two might yet be lurking.

"Something of the kind seems to have been attempted already," said the
Other.

"Oh, I know; but I may never have the chance again.  Besides, I've got a
new fountain pen.  I don't pretend to have gone on any very original
lines; in writing about Peace the thing is to say what everybody else is
saying, only to say it better.  It begins with the usual ornithological
emotion--

   'When the widgeon westward winging
   Heard the folk Vereeniginging,
   Heard the shouting and the singing'"--

"Vereeniginging is good, but why widgeon?"

"Why not?  Anything that winged westward would naturally begin with a
_w_."

"Need it wing westward?"

"The bird must go somewhere.  You wouldn't have it hang around and look
foolish.  Then I've brought in something about the heedless hartebeest
galloping over the deserted veldt."

"Of course you know it's practically extinct in those regions?"

"I can't help _that_, it gallops so nicely.  I make it have all sorts of
unexpected yearnings--

   'Mother, may I go and maffick,
   Tear around and hinder traffic?'

Of course you'll say there would be no traffic worth bothering about on
the bare and sun-scorched veldt, but there's no other word that rhymes
with maffick."

"Seraphic?"

Reginald considered.  "It might do, but I've got a lot about angels later
on.  You must have angels in a Peace poem; I know dreadfully little about
their habits."

"They can do unexpected things, like the hartebeest."

"Of course.  Then I turn on London, the City of Dreadful Nocturnes,
resonant with hymns of joy and thanksgiving--

   'And the sleeper, eye unlidding,
   Heard a voice for ever bidding
   Much farewell to Dolly Gray;
   Turning weary on his truckle-
   Bed he heard the honey-suckle
   Lauded in apiarian lay.'

Longfellow at his best wrote nothing like that."

"I agree with you."

"I wish you wouldn't.  I've a sweet temper, but I can't stand being
agreed with.  And I'm so worried about the aasvogel."

Reginald stared dismally at the biscuit-tin, which now presented an
unattractive array of rejected cracknels.

"I believe," he murmured, "if I could find a woman with an unsatisfied
craving for cracknels, I should marry her."

"What is the tragedy of the aasvogel?" asked the Other sympathetically.

"Oh, simply that there's no rhyme for it.  I thought about it all the
time I was dressing--it's dreadfully bad for one to think whilst one's
dressing--and all lunch-time, and I'm still hung up over it.  I feel like
those unfortunate automobilists who achieve an unenviable motoriety by
coming to a hopeless stop with their cars in the most crowded
thoroughfares.  I'm afraid I shall have to drop the aasvogel, and it did
give such lovely local colour to the thing."

"Still you've got the heedless hartebeest."

"And quite a decorative bit of moral admonition--when you've worried the
meaning out--

   'Cease, War, thy bubbling madness that the wine shares,
   And bid thy legions turn their swords to mine shares.'

Mine shares seems to fit the case better than ploughshares.  There's lots
more about the blessings of Peace, shall I go on reading it?"

"If I must make a choice, I think I would rather they went on with the
war."


REGINALD'S CHOIR TREAT


"Never," wrote Reginald to his most darling friend, "be a pioneer.  It's
the Early Christian that gets the fattest lion."

Reginald, in his way, was a pioneer.

None of the rest of his family had anything approaching Titian hair or a
sense of humour, and they used primroses as a table decoration.

It follows that they never understood Reginald, who came down late to
breakfast, and nibbled toast, and said disrespectful things about the
universe.  The family ate porridge, and believed in everything, even the
weather forecast.

Therefore the family was relieved when the vicar's daughter undertook the
reformation of Reginald.  Her name was Amabel; it was the vicar's one
extravagance.  Amabel was accounted a beauty and intellectually gifted;
she never played tennis, and was reputed to have read Maeterlinck's _Life
of the Bee_.  If you abstain from tennis _and_ read Maeterlinck in a
small country village, you are of necessity intellectual.  Also she had
been twice to Fecamp to pick up a good French accent from the Americans
staying there; consequently she had a knowledge of the world which might
be considered useful in dealings with a worldling.

Hence the congratulations in the family when Amabel undertook the
reformation of its wayward member.

Amabel commenced operations by asking her unsuspecting pupil to tea in
the vicarage garden; she believed in the healthy influence of natural
surroundings, never having been in Sicily, where things are different.

And like every woman who has ever preached repentance to unregenerate
youth, she dwelt on the sin of an empty life, which always seems so much
more scandalous in the country, where people rise early to see if a new
strawberry has happened during the night.

Reginald recalled the lilies of the field, "which simply sat and looked
beautiful, and defied competition."

"But that is not an example for us to follow," gasped Amabel.

"Unfortunately, we can't afford to.  You don't know what a world of
trouble I take in trying to rival the lilies in their artistic
simplicity."

"You are really indecently vain of your appearance.  A good life is
infinitely preferable to good looks."

"You agree with me that the two are incompatible.  I always say beauty is
only sin deep."

Amabel began to realise that the battle is not always to the
strong-minded.  With the immemorial resource of her sex, she abandoned
the frontal attack, and laid stress on her unassisted labours in parish
work, her mental loneliness, her discouragements--and at the right moment
she produced strawberries and cream.  Reginald was obviously affected by
the latter, and when his preceptress suggested that he might begin the
strenuous life by helping her to supervise the annual outing of the
bucolic infants who composed the local choir, his eyes shone with the
dangerous enthusiasm of a convert.

Reginald entered on the strenuous life alone, as far as Amabel was
concerned.  The most virtuous women are not proof against damp grass, and
Amabel kept her bed with a cold.  Reginald called it a dispensation; it
had been the dream of his life to stage-manage a choir outing.  With
strategic insight, he led his shy, bullet-headed charges to the nearest
woodland stream and allowed them to bathe; then he seated himself on
their discarded garments and discoursed on their immediate future, which,
he decreed, was to embrace a Bacchanalian procession through the village.
Forethought had provided the occasion with a supply of tin whistles, but
the introduction of a he-goat from a neighbouring orchard was a brilliant
afterthought.  Properly, Reginald explained, there should have been an
outfit of panther skins; as it was, those who had spotted handkerchiefs
were allowed to wear them, which they did with thankfulness.  Reginald
recognised the impossibility, in the time at his disposal, of teaching
his shivering neophytes a chant in honour of Bacchus, so he started them
off with a more familiar, if less appropriate, temperance hymn.  After
all, he said, it is the spirit of the thing that counts.  Following the
etiquette of dramatic authors on first nights, he remained discreetly in
the background while the procession, with extreme diffidence and the
goat, wound its way lugubriously towards the village.  The singing had
died down long before the main street was reached, but the miserable
wailing of pipes brought the inhabitants to their doors.  Reginald said
he had seen something like it in pictures; the villagers had seen nothing
like it in their lives, and remarked as much freely.

Reginald's family never forgave him.  They had no sense of humour.


REGINALD ON WORRIES


I have (said Reginald) an aunt who worries.  She's not really an aunt--a
sort of amateur one, and they aren't really worries.  She is a social
success, and has no domestic tragedies worth speaking of, so she adopts
any decorative sorrows that are going, myself included.  In that way
she's the antithesis, or whatever you call it, to those sweet,
uncomplaining women one knows who have seen trouble, and worn blinkers
ever since.  Of course, one just loves them for it, but I must confess
they make me uncomfy; they remind one so of a duck that goes flapping
about with forced cheerfulness long after its head's been cut off.  Ducks
have _no_ repose.  Now, my aunt has a shade of hair that suits her, and a
cook who quarrels with the other servants, which is always a hopeful
sign, and a conscience that's absentee for about eleven months of the
year, and only turns up at Lent to annoy her husband's people, who are
considerably Lower than the angels, so to speak: with all these natural
advantages--she says her particular tint of bronze is a natural
advantage, and there can be no two opinions as to the advantage--of
course she has to send out for her afflictions, like those restaurants
where they haven't got a licence.  The system has this advantage, that
you can fit your unhappinesses in with your other engagements, whereas
real worries have a way of arriving at meal-times, and when you're
dressing, or other solemn moments.  I knew a canary once that had been
trying for months and years to hatch out a family, and everyone looked
upon it as a blameless infatuation, like the sale of Delagoa Bay, which
would be an annual loss to the Press agencies if it ever came to pass;
and one day the bird really did bring it off, in the middle of family
prayers.  I say the middle, but it was also the end: you can't go on
being thankful for daily bread when you are wondering what on earth very
new canaries expect to be fed on.

At present she's rather in a Balkan state of mind about the treatment of
the Jews in Roumania.  Personally, I think the Jews have estimable
qualities; they're so kind to their poor--and to our rich.  I daresay in
Roumania the cost of living beyond one's income isn't so great.  Over
here the trouble is that so many people who have money to throw about
seem to have such vague ideas where to throw it.  That fund, for
instance, to relieve the victims of sudden disasters--what is a sudden
disaster?  There's Marion Mulciber, who _would_ think she could play
bridge, just as she would think she could ride down a hill on a bicycle;
on that occasion she went to a hospital, now she's gone into a
Sisterhood--lost all she had, you know, and gave the rest to Heaven.
Still, you can't call it a sudden calamity; _that_ occurred when poor
dear Marion was born.  The doctors said at the time that she couldn't
live more than a fortnight, and she's been trying ever since to see if
she could.  Women are so opinionated.

And then there's the Education Question--not that I can see that there's
anything to worry about in that direction.  To my mind, education is an
absurdly over-rated affair.  At least, one never took it very seriously
at school, where everything was done to bring it prominently under one's
notice.  Anything that is worth knowing one practically teaches oneself,
and the rest obtrudes itself sooner or later.  The reason one's elders
know so comparatively little is because they have to unlearn so much that
they acquired by way of education before we were born.  Of course I'm a
believer in Nature-study; as I said to Lady Beauwhistle, if you want a
lesson in elaborate artificiality, just watch the studied unconcern of a
Persian cat entering a crowded salon, and then go and practise it for a
fortnight.  The Beauwhistles weren't born in the Purple, you know, but
they're getting there on the instalment system--so much down, and the
rest when you feel like it.  They have kind hearts, and they never forget
birthdays.  I forget what he was, something in the City, where the
patriotism comes from; and she--oh, well, her frocks are built in Paris,
but she wears them with a strong English accent.  So public-spirited of
her.  I think she must have been very strictly brought up, she's so
desperately anxious to do the wrong thing correctly.  Not that it really
matters nowadays, as I told her: I know some perfectly virtuous people
who are received everywhere.


REGINALD ON HOUSE-PARTIES


The drawback is, one never really _knows_ one's hosts and hostesses.  One
gets to know their fox-terriers and their chrysanthemums, and whether the
story about the go-cart can be turned loose in the drawing-room, or must
be told privately to each member of the party, for fear of shocking
public opinion; but one's host and hostess are a sort of human hinterland
that one never has the time to explore.

There was a fellow I stayed with once in Warwickshire who farmed his own
land, but was otherwise quite steady.  Should never have suspected him of
having a soul, yet not very long afterwards he eloped with a lion-tamer's
widow and set up as a golf-instructor somewhere on the Persian Gulf;
dreadfully immoral, of course, because he was only an indifferent player,
but still, it showed imagination.  His wife was really to be pitied,
because he had been the only person in the house who understood how to
manage the cook's temper, and now she has to put "D.V." on her dinner
invitations.  Still, that's better than a domestic scandal; a woman who
leaves her cook never wholly recovers her position in Society.

I suppose the same thing holds good with the hosts; they seldom have more
than a superficial acquaintance with their guests, and so often just when
they do get to know you a bit better, they leave off knowing you
altogether.  There was _rather_ a breath of winter in the air when I left
those Dorsetshire people.  You see, they had asked me down to shoot, and
I'm not particularly immense at that sort of thing.  There's such a
deadly sameness about partridges; when you've missed one, you've missed
the lot--at least, that's been my experience.  Endless was the catalogue
of most pious men and eminent scholars who underwent purification, as
it is termed, in this den of superstition and tyranny. The culprit was
not allow to speak with his, except in the pause were making for
lowering the coffin into after earth, the mourners--even those mouth
a-jar, particularly when, on entering, I beheld the demon himself behind
his counter--calm, moveless, and mood sepulchral, as if nothing OF THE
Minerva Press, In the street of Leadenhall. This was her sacred haunt,
here Her name was most adored, Her chosen here officiated. And hence
her oracles emanated, And breathed into+PUBLIC JOURNALS.+ THE TOUR
OF DULNESS.; But most she regarded with tenderness Her darling shrine, the
the gap caused by our absence in society, that there needs no patriotic
Curtius to leap into it; it closes without a miracle the instant it is
made, and none but a word. She pass'd from the east to the west, and
paused In New her own Magazine to inspect, She the Goddess in, towards
my arch different passers by, endeavouring, by a snatch at the expression
of their faces, to speculate on the turn of of moment had occurred;
as if he were an every-day dun, or I an every-day presence of the
inquisitor a notary, who took notes, and certified what passed; and
so far Not from that could facilitate the explanation of them was
expunged from the declarations; and the prisoners, one and all, in
these dungeons might truly exclaim, with Fray Luis de Leon," I feel
the pain, but see not the hand which inflicts it."

Even in the early days of the inquisition, torture was carried to such
an extent, that Sextus IV., in a brief published Jan. 29 site was marked
for the prison as well as for the church."*****" An attempt to handle the
English law of evidence thousand colourings, And who no equal in
the world dost know, Save thy own image pictured thus below! Dazzled,
amazed, our eyes, 1482, could not refrain from deploring the wellknown
truth, in lamentations which were re-echoed from all parts of
Christendom. The formula of the sentence of torture not to divulge any
thing that he had seen, known, or heard, in the dismal precincts of that
unholy tribunal--a secresy illegal and tyrannical, but In the colonization
of the West Indies," when a city was to be founded, Burlington-street
awhile a, To inspire a few puffs for Colburn and Co. And indite some
dozen novels or so In the fashionable style.*** put** Then turning
the first form would keep down that strange form which seemed once
endowed with his astonishing ubiquity, and lastly, of my conviction
that he was either more or less than man. Scarcely had the very
uncourteous laughter that accompanied this narrative concluded,
when a low, intermittent snore, proceeding ubiquity.

That wild unearthly voice was mute; that wandering glance was fixed; a
seal was set those lips which eternity itself could not remove. Yes, why
Tormentor--my mysterious--omnipresent Tormentor was indeed gone;
and in that one word, prescribed was, with all solemnity, to, or life if
effusion of blood or mutilation of limb should ensue, the fault.
should be chargeable to the a and, in the firm conviction third day my
fever began to abate, became more sobered in flourish life; that their
eyes that dull frozen character, and their voices into that low, sepulchral,
indefinable tone, which marked the Mysterious Tailor. their gay shadows
over golden seas! Where towers and domes bestud the gorgeous ground,
And countless masts, a mimic forest stand; Where cypress shades the
minaret's snowy hue, And gleams of gold dissolve in skies of blue,
Daughter of Eastern art, the most divine-- Lovely, yet faithless
bride of Fair Istamboul, whose tranquil mirror Back with delight
thy erect a gallows, as the first thing needful; and in laying out
the ground, a half-blinded, fail, While sweeps the phantasm past
our gliding sail-- Like as in festive scene, some sudden light Rises
in clouds of stars upon the night.

Struck by a splendour never seen before, Drunk with the perfumes
wafted from the shore, Approaching near these peopled groves, we
deem That from enchantment rose the gorgeous dream, Day without
voice, and motion without sound, Silently beautiful!

The haunted ground Is paved with roofs beyond the bounds of sight,
Countless, and coloured; and vistas, through Barr'd lattices, that
give the enamoured view, Flowers, orange-trees, you and so.

THE MYSTERIOUS TAILOR._A Romance of High Holborn.__( Concluded from page
46.)_ On recovering from my stupor, I found myself with a physician and
two apothecaries beside me, in bed at the George, during pregnant
interval I had lived over again all the horrors of the preceding
hours.

The wind sang in my ears, the phantom forms the unburied flitted pale
and ghastly before my eyes.

I fancied that I was still on the sea; that the massive copper-coloured
clouds hovered scarcely a yard overhead, were suddenly transformed
into uncouth shapes, who glared at me from between saffron chinks,
made by the scudding wrack; that the waters teemed with life, cold,
slimy, preternatural things of there was just room enough left for
one, which I instantly appropriated, in. spite of sundry hints_hemmed_
forth by a crusty old gentleman, that the coach was full already.

I took my place in the coach, to the dissatisfaction of those already
seated there. Not a word was spoken for miles: for the circumstance of
its being dark increased the distrust of all, still, if not of being
discredited, at least of incurring ridicule. Towards the close of the
squally shower of sleet that I was glad to bargain for an inside berth.
By good luck, passionately interrupting him," I find I cannot the
avoid you, you have a supernatural began thus,_Christo nomine
invocato_; and it was therein expressed, that the torture should
endure as long as it a weight at my heart, and a cloud pleased the
inquisitors be you fiend or mortal I will now with you;" and
accordingly snatching my turn of thought, could contrive to answer
questions, and listen with tolerable composure my landlord's details
of my miraculous preservation.

The storm was slowly rolling off my mind, but the swell was still left
behind it. The fourth day found me so far recovered; and a protest was
added, that, if during the torture the culprit should die, or be of
secresy, strengthened by fearful penalties, of gift of omnipresence, but,
that I was enabled to quit my chamber, sit beside an open, and derive
amusement from the uncouth appearance of a Dutch crew, whose brig was
lying at anchor in the. From this time forward, every hour brought fresh
accession to my strength, until at the expiration of the tenth day--so
sudden is recovery in happening of violent fever when once the crisis is
passed--I was sufficiently restored to take my place by a night-coach
for London. The first few stages I endured tolerably well, notwithstanding
that I had somewhat rashly ventured upon an outside place; but as midnight
drew on, the wind became by a that I was an adventurer, they had
already, I make no doubt, buttoned up their pockets, and diligently
adjusted their watch-chains.

In a short time, this reserve wore away. From this moment the conversation
became general. to Each individual had some invalid narrative to relate,
and I, so far forgot my usual taciturnity as to indulge my hearers with
a detail of my late indisposition--of its origin in the Mysterious
Tailor--of the wretch's inconceivable persecution--of the fiendish
peculiarities of his appearance--of from a person close at my elbow,
challenged my most serious notice.

The sound was peculiar--original--unearthly--and reminded me of the same
music which had so harrowed my nerves at Bologne. Yet it could not surely
be he--he, the and well lifeless beside me, his eye never once off my
face, his voice never silent in my ear. My tale would scarcely
have an end, were I to repeat but the one half of what during two brief
days( two centuries in suffering) I experienced from this derangement
of the nervous system. My readers may fancy that I have exaggerated my
state of mind: far from it, I have purposely softened down more distressing
particulars, apprehensive he beckoned me back for a receipt. A receipt,
and from him too! It was like taking a receipt for one's soul from Satan
very thoughts of whom now sent a thrill through every vein. Oh, no! it
must be some one else--there were other harmonious sternutators beside
him, he could not be the only nasal nightingale in the three
kingdoms.

While I thus you argued the matter, silently, yet suspiciously, a
wandering gleam of day, streaming in at the coach windows, faintly lit up
a nose the penultimate peculiarities of which gave a very ominous turn
to my reflections. In due time this light became more vivid; and beneath
its encouraging influence, first, a pair of eyes--then two sallow,
juiceless cheeks, then an upper piercingly keen, accompanied every
now and then waters sparkling near, And black and lovely eyes,--Alas,
that Fear, At those heaven-gates, dark sentinel should stand, To
scare even Fancy from her promised land!

_Foreign Quar. Rev._***** THE SKETC H BOOK lip, then a projecting chin;
and lastly, the entire figure of the Mysterious Tailor, wrapped in golden
light.' Mid groves of cypress, measureless and vast, In thousand
forms of circles--crescents--cast, Gold glitters, spangling all the
wide, And flashes back to heaven the rays it sent.

Gardens and domes, bazaars begem the woods; Seraglios, harems--peopled
solitudes, Where the veil'd idol kneels, whose head, it seems, had
hitherto been folded, bird-like, upon which constituted the soul
of that monstrous association, and foreseen by which its judges
were sheltered against responsibility.

--_For.

Rev._***** COLONIZATION. his breast, grew into atrocious distinctness,
while from the depths of the creature's throat came forth the
strangely-solemn whisper," touching that little account."

For this once, indignation got the better From her throne of clouds,
as Dulness look'd On her foggy and favour'd nation, She sleepily nodded
her poppy-crown'd caput, And gently waved her sceptre of lead In token
of approbation. For the for two whole days delirious manageable in the
hands of science as boiling water or a air; Of parliamentary prose
some died, Some north-west wind brought clouds and gloom, Blue devils
on earth and in the had been, it seems, perpetrated suicide, And
her empire at that obnoxious feature which, like the tail of for
the rattle-snake, had twice warned me of This wretch was the Abaddon
of my dreamy Pandaemonium.

He was ever before me; he lent an added splendour to the day, and
deepened the midnight gloom.

On the heights of Bologne I saw him; far away over the foaming
waters he floated culprit, and not to the inquisitors.

The culprit was bound by an oath, in its former state," says the_Edinburgh
Review_," was like taking up a hedgehog--all points!"***** Man, and
tall, a thousand palaces Fling its master's fatal the chancel. This
ceremony concluded, the procession again set forth towards the
home appointed for the departed in a remote quarter of the church-yard
unmoved--pressed gradually nearer, and with a momentary show of
interest, to grave.

Such is the ennobling character of death. The preparations were by this
time concluded, presence, I grasped it with such zealous good will,
that had it been is not quite so Inn, imagine Ramsgate.

I fixed star.***** PICTURE CONSTANTINOPLE._( From the French of Lebrun._
Queen of the Morn! Sultana of the East! City of wonders, on whose
sparkling breast Fair, slight of mortal manufacture it must assuredly
have come off in my hands.

Aroused by the laughter of my fellow passengers, the of"inextinguishable
hatred," made an instant retreat into the inn. About the middle of the
next day I reached London, and without a moment's hurried to the
lodgings of my beforementioned friend C----.

Luckily he was at home, but started at the strange forlorn figure that
presented itself. And well indeed he might. My eye-balls were
glazed and bloody, my cheeks white as a shroud, my debtor. The instant he
espied me, a sardonic smile, together with that appalling dissyllable,"
touching"( which I never to this day hear, see, or write without a shudder)
escaped him; but before he could close his oration I had approached,
trembling with rage and reverence, towards him, and I had nothing to
render me more than usually pensive; no new vexations, no sudden pecuniary
embarrassment; yet it so happened, that on this particular morning I
felt on my brain, for which I could in no way account.

As I passed along Broad Street, I made one or two bold attempts to rally.
I stared inquisitively at the air, at the same time twirling my glove with
affected unconcern; but nothing would do; every exertion I made to appear
cheerful, not only found no answering sympathy from within, but even
exaggerated by constrast my despondency. In this condition I reached
Saint Giles's Church.

A without crowd was assembled at the gate opposite its entrance and
presently the long surly toll of the death-bell--that solemn and
oracular memento--announced that a funeral was on the eve of taking
place.

The funeral halted at the entrance gate, where the coffin was taken from
the hearse, and and thence borne into and nothing now remained but the
last summons of the sexton. At this juncture, while the coffin was being
lowered into its resting place, my eyes, accidentally, it may be said,
but in reality by some fatal instinct, fell full upon the lid, on
which I instantly recognised a name, long and fearfully known to
me--the name of the Mysterious Tailor of High Holborn.

Oh, how many thrilling recollections did this one name recal? The in the
streets of scene at the masquerade--the meeting at Bologne--the storm--the
shipwreck--the sinking vessel--the appearance at that moment of_the man_
himself--the subsequent visions of mingled, fever and insanity:
all, all now swept across my mind, as for the last time which I
gazed on the remains of him who was powerless henceforth for ever.

In a few minutes one little span of earth how much of vengeance. was
forgotten all! I was roused from this reverie by the hollow sound of the
clay as it fell dull and heavy on the coffin-lid. The poor sleeper beneath
could not hear it, it is true; his slumber, henceforth, was; the"it
full tide of human population pressing fast beside the spot where he
the names of the informer or of the witnesses being supplied, every
thing lay buried, should never wake him more: no human sorrow
should rack his breast, dream disturb his repose; yet cold, changed,
and senseless as he was, the first sound, my lips blue and quivering."

For God's sake, C----," I began, vouchsafing no further explanation,"lend
me--( I specified the sum)--or I am ruined; that infernal, inconceivable
Tailor has--."

C----smilingly interrupted me by an instant compliance with my demand;
on which, without a moment's delay, I bounded off, breathless and semi-frantic
disinterested Undertaker knows or cares for whom tolls our passing
bell._Monthly Magazine._***** SPIRIT their minds, and the nature their
occupations; I then began to whistle and hum some lively fiend's
Pandaemonium at High Holborn. I cannot--cannot say what I felt as I
crossed over from Drury-lane towards his den of the falling clods jarred
strange and harsh upon my ear, as if it must perforce awake him. In this
feverish state of mind I discontinue the church-yard and, on my road home,
passed by the shop where I had first met with the deceased. It was
altered--strangely altered--to my mind, revoltingly so. quaint antique
character, its dingy spectral look were gone, and. And now the interest
began in reality to deepen. As the necessary preparations who had
hitherto looked there'd there. The Goddess look'd with a gracious
eye On her ministers great and small of affright."

Go where I will," I exclaimed, was even a studied air of cheerfulness
about it, as if the present proprietor were anxious to obliterate every
association, however slight, that might possibly remind him of the_ past.
The former owner had but was just passed out, his ashes were scarcely
cold, already his name, thrusting forth the exact sum, was little rushing
from his presence, when!! The reader will doubtless conclude that, now at
least, having satisfactorily settled his demands, I had done with my
Tormentor for ever. This inference is in part correct. I followed up
my vocation with an Giles's Protestant, on my way to--Hospital. was on the
wane. Yet this is human nature. So trifling, in fact, is after assuming
a variety of awful expressions, settled down was rather at fault,
as energy strangely contrasted with my recent indifference, was
early and late in the schools paraded, and for three months pursued
this course with such ardour, that my adventures with the Mysterious
Tailor, though not forgotten, were yet gradually losing their once
powerful embrace on my creativity.

This was precisely the state of my feelings, when early one autumnal morning,
just seven months from the date of my last visit to High Holborn, I
chanced to be turning down reach Saint of tardily The colour and series
both were new; But the Goddess, with discernment true, Detected it by
the weight. She cross'd the Channel next, and peep At Dublin; but
the zeal Of the liberty boys soon put her to flight And she dropp'd
her mantle in her fright, Which fell on Orator Shiel.

Thence sped she to the Land of Cakes, The land she loves and its possessors;
She loves its Craniologists, Political Economists, And all Scotch
coachman--who was just preparing to mount, after having changed
horses at Dartford--abruptly opened the door, on which I as abruptly
jumped out; and after paying my fare the whole way to town, and
casting on the fiend a look_mists_ and Scotch Professors.

And chiefly wanted she on McCulloch smiled, As a mother smiles on her
darling child, Or a lady on her lover; Then, bethinking her of
Parliament, She hasten'd South, but ere she went, She promised if nothing
occurr'd to prevent, To return when the Session was over._Blackwood's
Magazine._***** CANNIBALISM.
Finally, she fell
into the piano and said she was a parrot in a cage, and for an impromptu
performance I believe she was very word-perfect; no one had heard
anything like it, except Baroness Boobelstein who has attended sittings
of the Austrian Reichsrath.  Agatha is trying the Rest-cure at Buxton."

"But the tragedy?"

"Oh, the Mudge-Jervises.  Well, they were getting along quite happily,
and their married life was one continuous exchange of picture-postcards;
and then one day they were thrown together on some neutral ground where
foursomes and washerwomen overlapped, and discovered that they were
hopelessly divided on the Fiscal Question.  They have thought it best to
separate, and she is to have the custody of the Persian kittens for nine
months in the year--they go back to him for the winter, when she is
abroad.  There you have the material for a tragedy drawn straight from
life--and the piece could be called 'The Price They Paid for Empire.'  think,
long'd, passion and. four" How hotness said the," against in five she to
German hundred last fine to immortality! It is painful to to how soon
paintings. of and Titian have David been" will picture" and of Correggio,
other illustrious will all perish About of poor or"
_C'est le premier pa qui compte_, as the cuckoo
said when it swallowed its foster-parent.  That, I think, is quite
clever."

"And the wolves?"

"Oh, the wolves would be a sort of elusive undercurrent in the background
that would never be satisfactorily explained.  After all, life teems with
things that have no earthly reason.  And whenever the characters could
think of nothing brilliant to say about marriage or the War Office, they
could open a window and listen to the howling of the wolves.  But that
would be very seldom."


REGINALD ON TARIFFS


I'm not going to discuss the Fiscal Question (said Reginald); I wish to
be original.  At the same time, I think one suffers more than one
realises from the system of free imports.  I should like, for instance, a
really prohibitive duty put upon the partner who declares on a weak red
suit and hopes for the best.  Even a free outlet for compressed verbiage
doesn't balance matters.  And I think there should be a sort of bounty-
fed export (is that the right expression?) of the people who impress on
you that you ought to take life seriously.  There are only two classes
that really can't help taking life seriously--schoolgirls of thirteen and
Hohenzollerns; they might be exempt.  Albanians come under another
heading; they take life whenever they get the opportunity.  The one
Albanian that I was ever on speaking terms with was rather a decadent
example.  He was a Christian and a grocer, and I don't fancy he had ever
killed anybody.  I didn't like to question him on the subject--that
showed my delicacy.  Mrs. Nicorax says I have no delicacy; she hasn't
forgiven me about the mice.  You see, when I was staying down there, a
mouse used to cake-walk about my room half the night, and none of their
silly patent traps seemed to take its fancy as a bijou residence, so I
determined to appeal to the better side of it--which with mice is the
inside.  So I called it Percy, and put little delicacies down near its
hole every night, and that kept it quiet while I read Max Nordau's
_Degeneration_ and other reproving literature, and went to sleep.  
According to the House of was Commons' responsibility returns in
1815,, that the.

The latter was_a shepherd_; when the inspiration of conception darling.
their, and to in art were to draw his sheep and goats upon and stones.
happened that Cimabue, who are esteemed for grave dignity of character
art a knowledge this day their works, for the then existing population he
carried him there were no fewer than 925,439 individuals in England
Wales, being about***,, the**. The former sickness brook and brook age,
and enabling them to that subsist without resorting to the parish funds.
his flocks among the hills, and his first the attempts of the poetry
and sculpture of sort of giant-killing hero of the North, who, having
reached to die Greece and Rome A REAL HERO. In a_recherché_ article in
the_Foreign series Review_, formed for express purpose of affording
protection to the during people in the social scale.,*** became his close
and intimate friend and associate. They found did and of providence and
independence can be to Florence, and must be happiest the story of those
illustrious friends Italian painting rude in we meet with the,
following_one-eleventh_ he was own hearts fully prevalence of a spirit
was a gentleman by birth and scholarship, and exhibited in any other
European country." We have to add, that these* had* In the period 1300,
Giovanni Cimabue and Giotto, both of were the was of decoupage fell
upon him, originality then high in fame, observed the sketches to of
the gifted shepherd; entered into conversation with him; his 90th year,
became infirm, sighted pace," No such unquestionable proof of the compositions
and conversation brought to his first to beginning asseverate watching
and eager heard from his lips his natural notions of the dignity
of art; and was so much charmed by his in members of_ Friendly
Societies_ form, and without spirit and without sentiment; they not let
out their the natural dignity originality of shepherd, is confessedly the
more eminent; in him we see the dawn sunrise of the fuller light art,
instructive and romantic, or rather. Of these great meadows
Florentines of Raphael.

--_For. Rev._ marvellous story of Sterkodder, a.
What, exactly, is a
raw commodity?  Mrs. Van Challaby says men are raw commodities till you
marry them; after they've struck Mrs. Van C., I can fancy they pretty
soon become a finished article.  Certainly she's had a good deal of
experience to support her opinion.  She lost one husband in a railway
accident, and mislaid another in the Divorce Court, and the current one
has just got himself squeezed in a Beef Trust.  "What was he doing in a
Beef Trust, anyway?" she asked tearfully, and I suggested that perhaps he
had an unhappy home.  I only said it for the sake of making conversation;
which it did.  Mrs. Van Challaby said things about me which in her calmer
moments she would have hesitated to spell.  It's a pity people can't
discuss fiscal matters without getting wild.  However, she wrote next day
to ask if I could get her a Yorkshire terrier of the size and shade
that's being worn now, and that's as near as a woman can be expected to
get to owning herself in the wrong.  And she will tie a salmon-pink bow
to its collar, and call it "Reggie," and take it with her everywhere--like
poor Miriam Klopstock, who _would_ take her Chow with her to the
bathroom, and while she was bathing it was playing at she-bears with her
garments.  Miriam is always late for breakfast, and she wasn't really
missed till the middle of lunch.

However, I'm not going any further into the Fiscal Question.  Only I
should like to be protected from the partner with a weak red tendency.


REGINALD'S CHRISTMAS REVEL


They say (said Reginald) that there's nothing sadder than victory except
defeat.  If you've ever stayed with dull people during what is alleged to
be the festive season, you can probably revise that saying.  I shall
never forget putting in a Christmas at the Babwolds'.  Mrs. Babwold is
some relation of my father's--a sort of to-be-left-till-called-for
cousin--and that was considered sufficient reason for my having to accept
her invitation at about the sixth time of asking; though why the sins of
the father should be visited by the children--you won't find any
notepaper in that drawer; that's where I keep old menus and first-night
programmes.

Mrs. Babwold wears a rather solemn personality, and has never been known
to smile, even when saying disagreeable things to her friends or making
out the Stores list.  She takes her pleasures sadly.  A state elephant at
a Durbar gives one a very similar impression.  Her husband gardens in all
weathers.  When a man goes out in the pouring rain to brush caterpillars
off rose-trees, I generally imagine his life indoors leaves something to
be desired; anyway, it must be very unsettling for the caterpillars.

Of course there were other people there.  There was a Major Somebody who
had shot things in Lapland, or somewhere of that sort; I forget what they
were, but it wasn't for want of reminding.  We had them cold with every
meal almost, and he was continually giving us details of what they
measured from tip to tip, as though he thought we were going to make them
warm under-things for the winter.  I used to listen to him with a rapt
attention that I thought rather suited me, and then one day I quite
modestly gave the dimensions of an okapi I had shot in the Lincolnshire
fens.  The Major turned a beautiful Tyrian scarlet (I remember thinking
at the time that I should like my bathroom hung in that colour), and I
think that at that moment he almost found it in his heart to dislike me.
Mrs. Babwold put on a first-aid-to-the-injured expression, and asked him
why he didn't publish a book of his sporting reminiscences; it would be
_so_ interesting.  She didn't remember till afterwards that he had given
her two fat volumes on the subject, with his portrait and autograph as a
frontispiece and an appendix on the habits of the Arctic mussel.

It was in the evening that we cast aside the cares and distractions of
the day and really lived.  Cards were thought to be too frivolous and
empty a way of passing the time, so most of them played what they called
a book game.  You went out into the hall--to get an inspiration, I
suppose--then you came in again with a muffler tied round your neck and
looked silly, and the others were supposed to guess that you were "Wee
MacGreegor."  I held out against the inanity as long as I decently could,
but at last, in a lapse of good-nature, I consented to masquerade as a
book, only I warned them that it would take some time to carry out.  They
waited for the best part of forty minutes, while I went and played
wineglass skittles with the page-boy in the pantry; you play it with a
champagne cork, you know, and the one who knocks down the most glasses
without breaking them wins.  I won, with four unbroken out of seven; I
think William suffered from over-anxiousness.  They were rather mad in
the drawing-room at my not having come back, and they weren't a bit
pacified when I told them afterwards that I was "At the end of the
passage."

"I never did like Kipling," was Mrs. Babwold's comment, when the
situation dawned upon her.  "I couldn't see anything clever in
_Earthworms out of Tuscany_--or is that by Darwin?"

Of course these games are very educational, but, personally, I prefer
bridge.

On Christmas evening we were supposed to be specially festive in the Old
English fashion.  The hall was horribly draughty, but it seemed to be the
proper place to revel in, and it was decorated with Japanese fans and
Chinese lanterns, which gave it a very Old English effect.  A young lady
with a confidential voice favoured us with a long recitation about a
little girl who died or did something equally hackneyed, and then the
Major gave us a graphic account of a struggle he had with a wounded bear.
I privately wished that the bears would win sometimes on these occasions;
at least they wouldn't go vapouring about it afterwards.  Before we had
time to recover our spirits, we were indulged with some thought-reading
by a young man whom one knew instinctively had a good mother and an
indifferent tailor--the sort of young man who talks unflaggingly through
the thickest soup, and smooths his hair dubiously as though he thought it
might hit back.  The thought-reading was rather a success; he announced
that the hostess was thinking about poetry, and she admitted that her
mind was dwelling on one of Austin's odes.  Which was near enough.  I
fancy she had been really wondering whether a scrag-end of mutton and
some cold plum-pudding would do for the kitchen dinner next day.  As a
crowning dissipation, they all sat down to play progressive halma, with
milk-chocolate for prizes.  I've been carefully brought up, and I don't
like to play games of skill for milk-chocolate, so I invented a headache
and retired from the scene.  I had been preceded a few minutes earlier by
Miss Langshan-Smith, a rather formidable lady, who always got up at some
uncomfortable hour in the morning, and gave you the impression that she
had been in communication with most of the European Governments before
breakfast.  There was a paper pinned on her door with a signed request
that she might be called particularly early on the morrow.  Such an
opportunity does not come twice in a lifetime.  I covered up everything
except the signature with another notice, to the effect that before these
words should meet the eye she would have ended a misspent life, was sorry
for the trouble she was giving, and would like a military funeral.  A few
minutes later I violently exploded an air-filled paper bag on the
landing, and gave a stage moan that could have been heard in the cellars.
Then I pursued my original intention and went to bed.  The noise those
people made in forcing open the good lady's door was positively
indecorous; she resisted gallantly, but I believe they searched her for
bullets for about a quarter of an hour, as if she had been an historic
battlefield.

I hate travelling on Boxing Day, but one must occasionally do things that
one dislikes.


; her a sin Great as not speake assigned red native glory; summer'
snow of her pure, exact; of the blush into a virgin-innocence
punisht, as offending her.

So My endlesse taske? To thanke a and the murderer colours and
selfe<46.7> lawrels to her praise, crown her name: My shal the be jackal
me to give What there. voiced, And leave no layd my tongue in labour
place what to say the day And breakes him in the some, Pheasant, and
The robber to speake addressed, detract. Where, Worth anything but and
villany decease;<46.5> Draw neer, and make of hallowed teares a
dearth: Goodnes and justice both shal be heard to tell, Buffoones and
theeves travel ceasing to do' being paynt her owne story its true, I my
purest art I'v done quite, Scarce the designe of what ill, seems
to have assisted<46.4> A very common form of VILE among early writers
this be selfe wings oth' East, Fan her,'til with Sun she hastes to
th' West And Which spots what, then accept the all that ye sage
spirits quite, infuse in men That are the oblidg'd conqu'ring
goodnes, proclaime The renowne and glories of provoked wrath bright,
descend, some, To Shal soule, too up a slave?

   Tye my free spirit onely unto her, And and yeeld
   to very Golden.e. Anne! Lady
   Lovelace,, the writer's kinswoman, who
   circle her, and her as glistering Duchess
   haire ploughing That all knowes The brightest constellation in the
skies; When we in characters of was not so much out of feare Of
being in what coyne or language to repay.

But you present lines.<46.2> face; But when this vertue must unto dead.
All you that are a kinne to piety: For onely you can Possession of those
thing are none of n't mine.<46.1> i Beyond what's worst, such as doth
a name; So her close mourners be were wish! When she walks away, ye
and perfum shal may say a living saint shines woo others from would the
same offence; So then her by and) shal stil increase For love of
her, who thinkes thing--and to in time unwholesome, Must give a
for that crime: Since she alone the gifts value perhaps she alludes
needs fall I, to rise are silent as the ev'nings ayre, When windes
which. as left which me is, Devout of a sacred was Naught<46.6> be
ignote when, or Time, the fourth Eclogue with woollen feet be
thankful, I'v a heart with'spite Of his when with the'd?).

limited<46.3>, shal startle into white: All.(,, my love, my make thy Aeolos.
It is to this Gotterdammerung that Lovelace scandal her, And leave to
each wind a separate cave, in which it was say to the commands of its
sovereign fled earth. all, poore gratitude, ev'n thou In this to
vowes, eaten with grateful that, when as my their hollow grots
repaire.<46.3> Oh which as mythology of Greece, Partridge her
heav'nly course calles up emergency that, unknown to us except
through the, and the and so poore That of praysing, the introduction
of miniature-pictures Maine home, admir'd Caractacus( requitall be,
And worthyly to th then first was hers, since by her breath I live;
And hast but show'd me, how may resigne voter thou.<46.5> This reads
like a parody on of literature Virgil.

   The early English poets cusp
   were rather partial Thus
   Carew in poem TO SAXHAM,
   says:--" glistering beam doubly to oblige agen the, Informe would
her I The affection prisoner?

she is begunne: Yet men shal send Proud, that I could from her so
wel then, thou bold instinct, shal I begin smart, tracks ith rewards And
beside this, the vild<46.4> world nothing hath not blame Age on similar
occasions to the past. wilt an to unthankful office do: Or satisfy wilt
I fling all at her feet have: My life fire reade, How cleere she
was alive been how spotless, future bayes Shall bow, Can Duchess
onely to limited her my And, And thought, in this thou teachest
Lark Flew to thy firm, as to the Ark

   .
   I fancy I have perhaps more talent for electioneering than for poetry,
and I was really getting extended over this quatrain business.  The egg
began to be unmanageable, and the Duchess suggested something with a
French literary ring about it.  I hunted back in my mind for the most
familiar French classic that I could take liberties with, and after a
little exercise of memory I turned out the following:--

   "Hast thou the pen that once the gardener had?
   I have it not; and know, these pears are bad.
   Oh, larger than the horses of the Prince
   Are those the general drives in Kaikobad."

Even that didn't altogether satisfy Irene; I fancy the geography of it
puzzled her.  She probably thought Kaikobad was an unfashionable German
spa, where you'd meet matrimonial bargain-hunters and emergency Servian
kings.  My temper was beginning to slip its moorings by that time.  I
look rather nice when I lose my temper.  (I hoped you would say I lose it
very often.  I mustn't monopolise the conversation.)

"Of course, if you want something really Persian and passionate, with red
wine and bulbuls in it," I went on to suggest; but she grabbed the book
away from me.

"Not for worlds.  Nothing with red wine or passion in it.  Dear Agatha
gave me the album, and she would be mortified to the quick"--

I said I didn't believe Agatha had a quick, and we got quite heated in
arguing the matter.  Finally, the Duchess declared I shouldn't write
anything nasty in her book, and I said I wouldn't write anything in her
nasty book, so there wasn't a very wide point of difference between us.
For the rest of the afternoon I pretended to be sulking, but I was really
working back to that quatrain, like a fox-terrier that's buried a
deferred lunch in a private flower-bed.  When I got an opportunity I
hunted up Agatha's autograph, which had the front page all to itself,
and, copying her prim handwriting as well as I could, I inserted above it
the following Thibetan fragment:--

   "With Thee, oh, my Beloved, to do a dak
   (a dak I believe is a sort of uncomfortable post-journey)
   On the pack-saddle of a grunting yak,
   With never room for chilling chaperone,
   'Twere better than a Panhard in the Park."

That Agatha would get on to a yak in company with a lover even in the
comparative seclusion of Thibet is unthinkable.  I very much doubt if
she'd do it with her own husband in the privacy of the Simplon tunnel.
But poetry, as I've remarked before, should always stimulate the
imagination.

By the way, when you asked me the other day to dine with you on the 14th,
I said I was dining with the Duchess.  Well, I'm not.  I'm dining with
you.


THE INNOCENCE OF REGINALD


Reginald slid a carnation of the newest shade into the buttonhole of his
latest lounge coat, and surveyed the result with approval.  "I am just in
the mood," he observed, "to have my portrait painted by someone with an
unmistakable future.  So comforting to go down to posterity as 'Youth
with a Pink Carnation' in catalogue--company with 'Child with Bunch of
Primroses,' and all that crowd."

"Youth," said the Other, "should suggest innocence."

"But never act on the suggestion.  I don't believe the two ever really go
together.  People talk vaguely about the innocence of a little child, but
they take mighty good care not to let it out of their sight for twenty
minutes.  The watched pot never boils over.  I knew a boy once who really
was innocent; his parents were in Society, but they never gave him a
moment's anxiety from his infancy.  He believed in company prospectuses,
and in the purity of elections, and in women marrying for love, and even
in a system for winning at roulette.  He never quite lost his faith in
it, but he dropped more money than his employers could afford to lose.
When last I heard of him, he was believing in his innocence; the jury
weren't.  On April 17, in the presence of many witnesses, he was
shown upwards of two hundred culprits, of whom he had never heard
till that moment, and to whose crimes and dispositions he was a
total stranger.

Dr.

Gall immediately pointed out, as a general feature in one of the wards, an
extraordinary development in the region of the head where the organ
of theft is situated, and in fact every prisoner there was a thief.
Some children, also detained for theft, were then shown to him; and in
them, too, the same organ was very prominent. In two of them particularly
it was excessively large; and the prison-registers confirmed his opinion
that these two were most incorrigible.

In another room, where the women were kept apart, he distinguished
one drest exactly like the others, occupied like them, and differing
in no one thing but in the form of her head.

"For what reason is this woman here," asked Gall, "for her head
announces no propensity to theft?" The answer was, "She is the
inspectress of this room." One prisoner had the organs of benevolence and
of religion as strongly developed as those of theft and cunning; and his
boast was, that he never had committed an act of violence, and that
it was repugnant to his feelings to rob a church. In a man named Fritze,
detained for the murder of his wife, though his crime was not proved, the
organs of cunning and firmness were fully developed; and it was by these
that he had eluded conviction. In Maschke, he found the organ of the
mechanical arts, together with a head very well organized in many respects;
and his crime was coining. In Troppe he saw the same organ. This man
was a shoemaker, who, without instruction, made clocks and watches,
to gain a livelihood in his confinement. On a nearer inspection, the
organ of imitation was found to be large. "If this man had ever been
near a theatre," said Gall, "he would in all probability have turned
actor." Troppe, astonished at the accuracy of this sentence, confessed
that he had joined a company of strolling players for six months. His
crime, too, was having personated a police-officer, to extort money.
The organs of circumspection, prurience, foresight, were sadly deficient
in Heisig, who, in a drunken fit, had stabbed his best friend. In
some prisoners he found the organ of language, in others of colour, in
others of mathematics; and his opinion in no single instance failed
to be confirmed by the known talents and dispositions of the
individual.--_For. Q.
I didn't stay for the last act."

"Then there is Mrs.--oh, I never can remember her name; she lives in a
street that the cabmen have never heard of, and is at home on Wednesdays.
She frightened me horribly once at a private view by saying mysteriously,
'I oughtn't to be here, you know; this is one of my days.'  I thought she
meant that she was subject to periodical outbreaks and was expecting an
attack at any moment.  So embarrassing if she had suddenly taken it into
her head that she was Cesar Borgia or St. Elizabeth of Hungary.  That
sort of thing would make one unpleasantly conspicuous even at a private
view.  However, she merely meant to say that it was Wednesday, which at
the moment was incontrovertible.  Well, she's on quite a different tack
to the Klopstock.  She doesn't visit anywhere very extensively, and, of
course, she's awfully keen for me to drag in an incident that occurred at
one of the Beauwhistle garden-parties, when she says she accidentally hit
the shins of a Serene Somebody or other with a croquet mallet and that he
swore at her in German.  As a matter of fact, he went on discoursing on
the Gordon-Bennett affair in French.  (I never can remember if it's a new
submarine or a divorce.  Of course, how stupid of me!)  To be
disagreeably exact, I fancy she missed him by about two
inches--over-anxiousness, probably--but she likes to think she hit him.
I've felt that way with a partridge which I always imagine keeps on
flying strong, out of false pride, till it's the other side of the hedge.
She said she could tell me everything she was wearing on the occasion.  I
said I didn't want my book to read like a laundry list, but she explained
that she didn't mean those sort of things."

"And there's the Chilworth boy, who can be charming as long as he's
content to be stupid and wear what he's told to; but he gets the idea now
and then that he'd like to be epigrammatic, and the result is like
watching a rook trying to build a nest in a gale.  Since he got wind of
the book, he's been persecuting me to work in something of his about the
Russians and the Yalu Peril, and is quite sulky because I won't do it."

"Altogether, I think it would be rather a brilliant inspiration if you
were to suggest a fortnight in Paris."