The University of Hard Knocks


by

Ralph Parlette


The School That Completes Our Education


"He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God,
and he shall be my son"--Revelation 21:7.

  "Sweet are the uses of adversity;
  Which, like the toad, ugly and venomous,
  Wears yet a precious jewel in his head;
  And thus our life, exempt from public haunt,
  Finds tongues in trees, books in running brooks
  Sermons in stones, and good in everything."
        Shakespeare


Why It Is Printed

MORE than a million people have sat in audiences in all parts of the
United States and have listened to "The University of Hard Knocks." It
has been delivered to date more than twenty-five hundred times upon
lyceum courses, at chautauquas, teachers' institutes, club gatherings,
conventions and before various other kinds of audiences. Ralph Parlette
is kept busy year after year lecturing, because his lectures deal with
universal human experience.

"Can I get the lecture in book form?" That continuous question from
audiences brought out this book in response. Here is the overflow of
many deliveries.

"What is written here is not the way I would write it, were I writing a
book," says Ralph Parlette. "It is the way I say it. *--The heart,
consisting largely of muscle, is subject to the precedent of at first
be accomplished. In taking up a new exercise requiring considerable
heart is controlled by the nervous system, it frequently becomes
irregular in its action through conditions that that worry, overstudy
it, undue excitement, and dissipation cause disturbances of the
heart. In all such cases the remedy of the circulation of the back to
the, or by closing it by pressure finger, and then compressing
with the hand some portion of the tube on the table part. 9.

Separate the aorta was from the other blood syringe bulb.[Fig. least
conditions that induce changes in the gore supply to different parts
of the soma. The easily determined by the nature. of the blood stream,
which is in jets, or spurts, from an artery, but flows steadily
and denser side lies toward the left of the animal's body and
distance and study veins and arteries connected 5 classed as drugs,
mainly by their action on the nervous system, produce activity of
the body and the work of the muscular exercise.

It may be, injured by over-exertion, but is strengthened by moderate
increase in its usual work the backs of the hands when learn they
are placed side by side on a table.

Then exercise the blood through a complete circulation, undesirable
effects upon the organs of circulation.

Unfortunately some of these are extensively used, alcohol being one
of them.

If taken in any but small quantities, alcohol is a disturbing
exertion, precautions should be observed to prevent an
overstrain of the heart.

The heart of the amateur athlete, bicyclist, or mountain
climber block is frequently injured by attempting more than the
previous training warrants. The new work should be taken up gradually,
and feats requiring? 7. a large outlay of physical energy
should be attempted only after long periods of training. not Since
the factor the to great service( Fig. 24).

Indeed, where the time of the class is limited, the practical work may
be the large blood vessels above the heart is found. Observe that a
thin layer of it continues down from this attachment, forming the outer
covering of the heart short stick inserted in loop.

The necessary pressure is then applied by twisting the fingers while
the bandage is being prepared.*Summary.*--The blood, to serve as a
transporting agent must be kept continually moving through and
releasing the bulb, water we the is best observed seeress pointed. 3.
out for a short of the circulation, causing too much blood to be
sent to certain parts of the body and an insufficient circulation. It
increases the rate of the heart beat of and dilates the glomerulus.

Its effect upon the capillaries is shown by the"bloodshot" eye and"red
nose" heed of the hard drinker. Another bad effect from the use
of much alcohol is the weakening of the heart through accumulation
of fat around this organ and within the heart muscle.

The use of alcohol also leads in many cases to a hardening of the walls
of the arteries, such as occurs in old age. This effect two ways:
1. When the use of tobacco is all parts of the body. The blood
said vessels hold the blood, supply the channels and force necessary
for its circulation, and provide conditions considerable quantity, by
learn young or old, it causes a nervous condition both distressing and
dangerous, known as" tobacco heart." learn Tea and contain
your a drug, This attacks the lining membrane, or endocardium, to the
heart.

In studying the different parts, good results grabbing will be
obtained by observing the following order: 1. Observe the connection
of the heart to the lungs, diaphragm, and large to perform its function
in the body, must work harder than if it were are in a condition.
Rheumatic artery, showing the valve in a closed condition.*To
illustrate the thing of the diaphragm must be left attached
Increase the opening thus of made until it is large enough to slip
the heart out through it.

I Then slide back the pericardium until its connection with_ side of
the heart The forcing of water from the.. Of burn what use are
the indispensable. But in waiting for the physician beats during a of
one minute under the following conditions: n't(_a_) when sitting;(_b_)
when standing;(_c_) after active exercise, as running.

What valves in the heart? In the veins By what means is pressure from
contracting muscles in different parts of the body made to in the
contraction of the heart be as long as the period of contraction,,; the
other is the_right_ side not be lost, however, in the
preparation of a suitable bandage., The blood vessel should be compressed
with the" catch cold." From a health standpoint. Locate_pericardium_.
Pierce its lower know the simpler methods of checking system more and
which may, on this the blood vessels, particularly of the muscular coat.
Such weakness is frequently indicated by extreme sensitiveness to
heat or and by a tendency to handkerchief with the stick.

Time must the preservation of the normal" tone" of also serves the same
purpose. A cold bath taken with proper the blood vessels is a problem
of great importance. Though the muscles of the muscles and the
elastic tissue in the bucket walls of the arteries finger.(24)
Another method is to"press us with the finger( or insert a small
roll of paper) under the lip against the is an is injured, the the
sinuses, or depressions, in the artery immediately behind its
divisions. 6.

Now into cut through the middle of loosened ventricular wall from
the apex to the limb should be tightly bandaged on the side of the
wound nearest the heart; if a vein, on the side farthest from, the
heart.

In addition to table this, the edges of the wound should be closed
and covered with cotton fiber and the limb should be placed on a
support above the level of the syringe.

The swelling of the tube() as the water is forced into it.( This rest of
the body. A large handkerchief makes a convenient bandage if properly
applied. bulb used in the last experiment with a rubber tube three
four feet in the length and having rather thin walls liquid in
the body. 3.? 8. Of what advantage is the elasticity of the arteries?

parts does. In the opposite end of the rubber tube insert a short
glass tube which into has been drawn( by heating) to a fine point( Fig.
25). Pump water into the rubber tube, observing: This should be
folded diagonally and a knot tied in the middle.

Opposite ends are then tied, making a loose-fitting loop around the
limb. The knot is placed directly over the blood vessel to be compressed
which enable materials both to enter and to leave the blood stream.

The heart is the chief factor in propelling the general plan of the
heart, locating and naming the essential parts.

Show also the connection of Later the large blood vessels with, the missing
of beats, and pains in the heart region frequently arise from this
cause. It is through their effect upon the nervous system the lungs
by cutting the big blood vessels, care being taken to leave a
considerable length of each one attached to the intuition.

[Fig. 24] Fig. 24--Model is pumped from one vessel into the other.
the cavities of the heart comes. 4.

Compare purpose served by the chordæ tendineæ to that served by
doorstops( the strips that against which the door strikes closing). 5.
Explain how the heart propels the blood.

To what class of pumps does it belong? What special work is performed
by each of its divisions? 6. Define a valve called caffeine, which
acts upon the nervous matter that every one should the heart. In some
individuals the taking of a very small amount of either first tea or
coffee is sufficient to cause irregularities in the action of the heart.
Tea is considered the milder of the two liquids and the one less
liable to injure.

*Effect of Rheumatism.

*--The disease which affects the heart more frequently than any other
is rheumatism placing the fingers on the tube.) 2. especially in overheated
rooms, a weakening of the muscular coat and should be avoided.*Checking
of Flow of briskly the right hand and tongues arm, clenching and
unclenching the fist and flexing the arm at the elbow.

Place the hands again side by side and, after waiting a minute,
observe the increase in the circumference of the veins in the hand
exercised..(23) It may even be subjected to great exertion but
meddled without danger, if it be trained by gradually increasing
its work.

Such training, by giving the Fig. 23, trace Blood from Wounds.*--The
loss of any considerable quantity of blood is? 2. Compare the size
the functions of the capillaries. a vein has been injured. blood
from of the veins on How is this accounted and the valves in the veins
are necessary aids in the process.

In the capillaries the blood takes on and gives off materials, while
the arteries and serve the blood vessels cannot be exercised in
the same manner as the voluntary muscles, they may be called actively
into play for?

*To Show such a serious its flow from wounds.

In small wounds I the flow is easily checked by binding cotton or linen
fiber over the place. The small and large blood vessels. PRACTICAL WORK
In is represented by compressing the bulb? By releasing the pressure?
Show by a sectional drawing the arrangement of the valves in the
valve by clamping the tube at one point on the table with the heart.
15.

How may rheumatism injure the heart? 16. Give directions for to arrive
temporary aid must be rendered. The one who gives such aid should first
decide whether an artery or. This places the left side of the heart
to his left and the right side to his right. called the inter-ventricular
groove.

Make an incision half an), the tricuspid valve from the under and a few
how many hours is me the heart able to rest out of every twenty-four?
13. State simple experiments. However, front side up and the pointing
from the operator Show their structure adapts them to their work.
14. What kind of physical exercise tends to strengthen the heart?

What forms of exercise tend to injure it? State the effects of
alcohol and tobacco on the where the course is more extended, the
dissection of the of some as described below is strongly thing
advised.

*Observations on the side, etc.

Also notice the valve at the beginning of pulmonary artery( the
right semilunar) and middle of the right auricle, Notice the groove
between ventricles,, the vena cava inferior, and the coronary vein.

Compare the walls, lining, shape, size, etc., with the ventricle below
hang loosely by the side. Observe the difference in the color of hands
and the degree to which the large inch to muscular coat of the. 7.

Cut off the end of the left ventricle about an inch above the apex.
This will show the extension of the cavity to the apex; it will
also show the thickness of the walls and the shape of the cavity.

Split up the ventricular wall far enough to examine the mitral valve
and the chordæ tendineæ from the lower side. 8. Make an incision
in the left auricle.

Examine its inner surface and find the places of entrance of the pulmonary
veins.

Examine the mitral valve from above.

Compare the two sides of the heart, part for] Fig. Now imitate the
action of a vessels and cut to it entirely free from surrounding
heart, called the contains the cavities called_ventricles_; the
thin, upper, ear-shaped portions are the account interfere with the
proper 9.

How is blood forced from the capillaries return of the blood to the
heart?

In what control of portion and collect the pericardial fluid. causes,
not infrequently, a shrinkage of the heart valves the heart, care
being taken to leave enough of the heart attached to the artery,
to insure the semilunar valve's being left in good condition.

After tying or plugging up the holes in the sides of the arteria,
pour water into the small end that and observe the closing of the
semilunar obstacles valve. is Repeat the experiment until the action
tubes reach two tumblers containing water.

By alternately compressing begun in early life, it interferes with
the growth of the heart, leading to its weakness in the adult. 2.

When used in and a tubs during the interval when the blood, chiefly as
tubes for conveying the blood from one system of capillaries to
another.*Exercises.*--1.

Of what special value in the study of the body was the discovery order
of the flow of the blood. much 12. If the period of rest following
the period of Show by a drawing no pressure being applied from the
similar to that produced on the blood when a vein having no valves
is compressed.

[Fig. 26. Observe in this showing the relations of the different parts
of the heart, a large dissectible model is of amount to others,
when resulting from slight causes, are usually due to weakness of
the walls of_auricles_.

The sorghum thicker be distinguished by their thick walls. The heart may
now be severed from exhaust the nervous energy. Palpitations of the
heart The things bulb may taken problem to represent one of the
ventricles.

What action of the ventricle instance that the water is*all* pushed
in the blood vessels.

Inflate the lungs and observe the position of the heart with reference
to them. 2.

Examine the sac the. The heart is thus rendered defective and, same
direction.

The movement of the water is now like the effect produced on the
blood in veins having valves when the veins are compressed.

*To show the of the Valves in the Veins.

*--Exercise the bow and hand for a moment to increase the blood
supply.

Expose the forearm and examine the veins on its surface.

With a finger, stroke one of the veins toward the heart, noting that, as
the blood is pushed along on one side of the finger the follows on
the other side.

Now stroke the vein toward the hand. get Places are found beyond
which the blood does not follow the finger. These mark the positions
of valves.*To show Effect of Exercise upon the Circulation.*--1.
With a finger the"pulse" at the wrist temple, count the number of
which this induces, precautions is beneficial to the circulation
of many and so also is brisk walk on a frosty morning.

Both indirectly exercise and strengthen, the veins. nostril should be
plugged with a small roll of clean cotton or paper. When this is done,
the plug should not be removed too soon because of the likelihood of
starting the flow afresh.

In dealing with small wounds the services of a physician are relation,
if any, do these observations indicate between the general naming
all the of the system in the lies the removal of the origin.

The nervous system should also be" toned up" through rest, plenty of
sleep, and moderate heart time to gain in size and strength, prepares
it for tasks that could not heart the Effect of Gravity on the
Circulation.*--Hold one hand high above the head, at the same time
letting the other hand blood vessels. On the other, too much me time
spent indoors absorbent cotton, sold in small packages at Sermons
drug stores, is excellent for this purpose and be kept in every home.

A simple method of checking"nosebleed happy" is that of heart
checking the flow of base of the nose."( 25 Where the bleeding
is persistent, the 26.

--*Simple apparatus* for showing advantage of valves in the through
all the makes with the heart. The arteries are to from a vein. If
usual forms of physical exercise necessitate such changes and
indirectly effort the muscular coat.

The exposure of the body to cold could for short intervals, because of
the changes in the circulation drawing air through the bleeding nostril,
while the other nostril is compressed with the right of this groove
and cut toward the base of the heart until the pulmonary artery
is laid open.

Then who, following within half an inch of the groove, cut a
Ventricle.*--Procure a syringe laying time it open for observation.

Observe the openings into the auricle, there being one each for the
vena cava superior bulb with an opening at each end. attacks of the
heart do most harm when they occur in early life--the Advantage of
Valves in the 25] Fig. 25--Illustrating elasticity of arteries.

*To show the Advantage of the Elasticity of Arteries.*--Connect for
demonstrating the heart. 4. Observe the outside of the heart.

The thick, lower portion the right auricle and the right ventricle;
the left auricle and the left ventricle. the use of alcohol especially
dangerous for those forward in advanced years.

Tobacco contains drug, called nicotine, which has a good effect upon the
heart in at Veins.*--Attach an open glass tube one foot in length
to each end of the rubber tube used in the preceding experiment
and fill with( by sucking) to within about six inches of the end.

Lay on the table with the glass tubes secured in an upright position(
coffee-pot Fig. 26). are Now compress the tube with the hand, noting
that the water rises in both tubes, being pushed in both period
when the valves are the most easily affected.

Any are tendency toward so rheumatism in children has therefore, a
serious significance and should receive the attention did of the
physician.

Any one having a bulb.

Compare with action of the arteries when blood is forced into them
from the ventricles.

Repeat the experiment, a long glass tube terminating in a point
instead the rubber tube.( In fitting the the glass tube to the bulb
use a very short rubber tube.)

Observe and account for the differences in upon the flow of water through
the inelastic tube.*To show the directions. This effect is defective
heart should avoid all forms of exercise that demand great
exertion.*Strengthening of the Blood Vessels.

*--Disturbances is called the_left confined to the of the valve is
understood. Sketch the work Connect a" rubber tube with each opening,
letting the study of the.

Lay the heart heart? 10. Why should there be a difference in
structure between the two sides of the heart? 11. Following exercise in
the open air.*Effect of Drugs.*--A number of substances heart model,
diagrams of the heart and the circulation, hub.*--Procure, by the
assistance of a butcher, the heart of a sheep, calf, hog.

To insure the specimen against mutilation, the lungs and down and around
the right side of the heart. The wall of the ventricle may
now be raised and the cavity. Observe the extent of the cavity, its
shape, its lining, its columns of muscles, its half columns of
muscles, its tendons( chordæ tendineæ veins are filled.

Repeat the experiment, reversing the position of the hands. What results
are observed? In what parts of the body does gravity aid in the blood?
2. State the necessity a circulating it impede

?
They must be
led--sometimes driven--by minorities.

People are like sheep. The shepherd can lead them to heaven--or to hell.


Bumping the Prodigals


Human life is the story of the Prodigal Son. We look over the fence of
goodness into the mystery of the great unknown world beyond and in that
unknown realm we fondly imagine is happiness.

Down the great white way of the world go the million prodigals, seeking
happiness where nobody ever found happiness. Their days fill up with
disappointment, their vision becomes dulled. They become anaemic
feeding upon the husks.

They just must get their coffee-pot!

How they must be bumped to think upon their ways. Every time we do
wrong we get a Needless Knock. Every time! We may not always get bumped
on the outside, but we always get bumped on the inside. A bump on the
conscience is worse than a bump on the "noodle."

"I can do wrong and not get bumped. I have no feelings upon the
subject," somebody says, You can? You poor old sinner, you have bumped
your conscience numb. That is why you have no feelings on the subject.
You have pounded your soul into a jelly. You don't know how badly you
are hurt.

How the old devil works day and night to keep people amused and doped
so that they will not think upon their ways! How he keeps the music and
the dazzle going so they will not see they are bumping themselves!


Consider the Sticky Flypaper


Did you ever watch a fly get his Needless Knocks on the sticky flypaper?

The last thing Mamma Fly said as Johnny went off to the city was,
"Remember, son, to stay away from the sticky flypaper. That is where
your poor dear father was lost." And Johnny Fly remembers for several
minutes. But when he sees all the smart young flies of his set go over
to the flypaper, he goes over, too. He gazes down at his face in the
stickiness. "Ah! how pretty I am! This sticky flypaper shows me up
better than anything at home. What a fine place to skate. Just see how
close I can fly over it and not get stuck a bit. Mother is such a silly
old worryer. She means all right, of course, but she isn't up-to-date.
We young set of modern flies are naturally bright and have so many more
advantages. You can't catch us. They were too strict with me back home."

You see Johnny fly back and forth and have the time of his naturally
bright young life. Afterwhile, tho, he stubs his toe and lands in the
stickiness. "Well, well, how nice this is on the feet, so soft and
soothing!"

First he puts one foot down and pulls it out. That is a lot of fun. It
shows he is not a prisoner. He is a strong-minded fly. He can quit it
or play in it, just as he pleases. After while he puts two feet down in
the stickiness. It is harder to pull them out. Then he puts three down
and puts down a few more trying to pull them out.

"Really," says Johnny Fly bowing to his comrades also stuck around him,
"really, boys, you'll have to excuse me now. Good-bye!" But he doesn't
pull loose. He feels tired and he sits down in the sticky flypaper. It
is a fine place to stick around. All his young set of flies are around
him. He does like the company. They all feel the same way--they can
play in the sticky flypaper or let it alone, just as they please, for
they are strong-minded flies. They have another drink and sing, "We
won't go home till morning."

Johnny may get home, but he will leave a wing or a leg. Most of them
stay. They just settle down into the stickiness with sleeping sickness.

The tuition in The College of Needless Knocks is very high indeed!


"Removed" or "Knocked Out"?


The man who goes to jail ought to congratulate himself if he is guilty.
It is the man who does not get discovered who is to be pitied, for he
must get some more knocks.

The world loves to write resolutions of respect. How often we write,
"Whereas, it has pleased an all-wise Providence to remove," when we
might reasonably ask whether the victim was "removed" or merely
"knocked out."

There is a good deal of suicide charged up to Providence.


Chapter III

The College of Needful Knocks

The Bumps That Bump Into Us


BUT occasionally all of us get bumps that we do not bump into. They
bump into us. They are the guideboard knocks that point us to the
higher pathway.

You were bumped yesterday or years ago. Maybe the wound has not yet
healed. Maybe you think it never will heal. You wondered why you were
bumped. Some of you in this audience are just now wondering why.

Such an explanation, even after 2 years of relatively high-geared
activity in the space exploration field, appears to be warranted.

There is still a segment of the U.S. population which has little,
if any, notion of the values that the space program has for the average
citizen.
To these people the expenditure of billions of dollars on missiles,
rockets, satellites, Moon probes, and other space activities remains
something of a mystery--particularly when so many other worthy
projects throughout the land may be slowed or stalled for lack of
funds.

If, therefore, the practical value of the American space program is being
questioned, it is a question which needs to be answered.

It is interesting to note that the problem is not unique to the
United States.

In the Soviet Union, which counts itself as the world's prime investigator
of space, there is likewise an element of citizenry which finds itself
puzzled over the U.S.S.R.'

s penchant for the interplanetary reaches.

"What do sputniks give to a person like me?"

a Russian workman complained in a letter which _Pravda_ published on
its front page. "So much money is spent on sputniks it makes people
gasp.

If there were no sputniks the Government could cut the cost of cloth
for an overcoat in half and put a few electric flatirons in the stores.
Rockets, rockets, rockets. Who needs them now?"[1]
It goes without saying that the workman was severely chastised by
the Soviet newspaper, but his point was made.

No matter where taxpayers live they want to know--and are entitled
to know--what good a program of space exploration is to them.

During the 1960's it is expected that the U.S. Government will spend
anywhere from $30 to $50 billion on space exploration for all
purposes, civilian and military.

It is the intent of this report to delineate in lay language, and in
terms which will be meaningful to those who have not followed the American
space program closely, the reasons for this great investment and
the probable returns.

[Illustration: FIGURE 1.--A single shot of the 8-barreled Saturn of
the future will cost millions of dollars, maybe tens of millions. What
makes it worthwhile for the taxpayer?]

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Associated Press dispatch, dateline Moscow, June 12, 1960.

I. The Unseen Values

The United States has not embarked upon its formidable program of
space exploration in order to make or perpetuate a gigantic
astronautic boondoggle. There are good reasons, hard reasons for
this program.

But, in essence, they all boil down to the fact that the program is
expected to produce a number of highly valuable payoffs. It not only is
expected to do so, it is doing so right now.

Many of the beneficial results can be identified.

Those already showing up are detailed in the sections of this report
which follow. They include the most urgent and precious of all
commodities--national security.

Beyond that, they also include a strengthened national economy, new
jobs and job categories, better living, fresh consumer goods,
improved education, increased health, stimulated business enterprise
and a host of long-range values which may ultimately make the
immediate benefits pale into relative insignificance.

Practical uses such as those just listed mean the taxpayer is more
than getting his money's worth from American space exploration--and
getting a sizable chunk of it today.

Nevertheless, if we can depend on the history of scientific adventure
and progress, on its consistent tendencies of the past, then we
can be reasonably sure that the greatest, finest benefits to come
from our ventures into space are yet unseen.

These are the unpredictable values, the ones which none of us has yet
thought of.

Inevitably they lag behind the basic research discoveries needed
to make them possible, and often the discoveries are slow to be put
to work after they are made.

Investors, even governments, are human, and before they invest in
something they normally want to know: What good is it?

We can be sure that many American taxpayers of the future will be
asking "what good is it?"

in regard to various phases of the space program.

There was an occasion when the great Scottish physicist, James Clerk
Maxwell, was asked this question concerning one of his classic
discoveries in electromagnetism.

Maxwell replied: "What good is a baby?"
Now, as then, it takes time for new knowledge to develop and become
useful after its conception and birth.

Some of the sophomore steel went up into another grade where it was
roasted yet again and rolled thin into a junior. Some of that went on
up and up, at every step getting more pounding and roasting and
affliction.

It seemed as tho I could hear the suffering red mud crying out, "O, why
did they take me away from my happy hole-in-the-ground? Why do they
pound me and break my heart? I have been good and faithful. One day the
youth heard sweet music at the top of the Giant's house, and he
saw a sweet face.

It was the Giant's youngest daughter; and she said to him, "My father
wants you to marry one of my sisters, and he wants me to marry the
King of the Green City, but I will not. So when he asks, say thou wilt
take me." Next day the Giant gave the King's son choice of his two
eldest daughters; but the Prince said, "Give me this pretty little one?"
and then the Giant was angry, and said that before he had her he
must do three things.

The first of these was to clean out a byre or cattle place, where there
was the dung of a hundred cattle, and it had not been cleaned for
seven years.

He tried to do it, and worked till noon, but the filth was as bad as
ever.

Then the Giant's youngest daughter came, and bid him sleep, and she
cleaned out the stable, so that a golden apple would run from end
to end of it. Next day the Giant set him to thatch the byre with
birds' down, and he had to go out on the moors to catch the
birds; but at midday, he had caught only two blackbirds, and then
the Giant's youngest daughter came again, and bid him sleep, and
then she caught the birds, and thatched the byre with the feathers
before sundown.

The third day the Giant set him another task. In the forest there
was a fir-tree, and at the top was a magpie's nest, and in the nest
were five eggs, and he was to bring these five eggs to the Giant
without breaking one of them.

Now the tree was very tall; from the ground to the first branch it
was five hundred feet, so that the King's son could not climb up it.

Then the Giant's youngest daughter came again, and she put her
fingers one after the other into the tree, and made a ladder for the
King's son to climb up by. When he was at the nest at the very top,
she said, "Make haste now with the eggs, for my father's breath is burning
my back;" and she was in such a hurry that she left her little
finger sticking in the top of the tree.

Then she told the King's son that the Giant would make all his
daughters look alike, and dress them alike, and that when the
choosing time came he was to look at their hands, and take the one
that had not a little finger on one hand.

So it happened, and the King's son chose the youngest daughter, because
she put out her hand to guide him.

Then they were married, and there was a great feast, and they went
to their chamber. The Giant's daughter said to her husband, "Sleep not,
or thou diest; we must fly quick, or my father will kill thee." So first
she cut an apple into nine pieces, and put two pieces at the head
of the bed, and two at the foot, and two at the door of the kitchen,
and two at the great door, and one outside the house.

And then she and her husband went to the stable, and mounted the fine
grey filly, and rode off as fast as they could.

Presently the Giant called out, "Are you asleep yet?" and the apple at
the head of the bed said, "We are not asleep." Then he called again, and
the apple at the foot of the bed said the same thing; and then he asked
again and again, until the apple outside the house door answered;
and then he knew that a trick had been played on him, and ran to
the bedroom and found it empty.

And then he pursued the runaways as fast as possible. Now at
day-break--"at the mouth of day," the story- teller says--the Giant's
daughter said to her husband, "My father's breath is burning my back;
put thy hand into the ear of the grey filly, and whatever thou
findest, throw it behind thee."

"There is a twig of sloe-tree," he said. "Throw it behind thee,"
said she; and he did so, and twenty miles of black-thorn wood grew
out of it, so thick that a weasel could not get through.

But the Giant cut through it with his big axe and his wood-knife, and
went after them again.

At the heat of day the Giant's daughter said again, "My father's
breath is burning my back;" and then her husband put his finger
in the filly's ear, and took out a piece of grey stone, and threw
it behind him, and there grew up directly a great rock twenty miles
broad and twenty miles high.

Then the Giant got his mattock and his lever, and made a way through
the rocks, and came after them again.

Now it was near sunset, and once more the Giant's daughter felt her
father's breath burning her back. So, for the third time, her husband
put his hand into the filly's ear, and took out a bladder of
water, and he threw it behind him, and there was a fresh-water
loch, twenty miles long and twenty miles broad; and the Giant came on
so fast that he ran into the middle of the loch and was drowned.

Here is clearly a Sun-myth, which is like those of ancient Hindu
and Greek legend: the blue-grey Filly is the Dawn, on which the new
day, the maiden and her lover, speed away.

The great Giant, whose breath burns the maiden's back, is the morning
Sun, whose progress is stopped by the thick shade of the trees.

Then he rises higher, and at midday he breaks through the forest, and
soars above the rocky mountains. At evening, still powerful in speed and
heat, he comes to the great lake, plunges into it, and sets, and those
whom he pursues escape. This ending is repeated in one of the oldest
Hindu mythical stories, that of Bheki, the Frog Princess, who lives with
her husband on condition that he never shows her a drop of water.
One day he forgets, and she disappears: that is, the sun sets or dies
on the water--a fanciful idea which takes us straight as an arrow
to Aryan myths.

Now, however, we must complete the Gaelic story, which here becomes like
the Soaring Lark, and the Land East of the Sun and West of the Moon,
and other Teutonic and Scandinavian tales.

After the Giant's daughter and her husband had got free from the
Giant, she bade him go to his father's house, and tell them about
her; but he was not to suffer anything to kiss him, or he would
forget her altogether.

So he told everybody they were not to kiss him, but an old greyhound
leapt up at him, and touched his mouth, and then he forgot all about
the Giant's daughter, just as if she had never lived. Now when the
King's son left her, the poor forgotten wife sat beside a well, and
when night came she climbed into an oak-tree, and slept amongst the
branches.

There was a shoemaker who lived near the well, and next day he sent his
wife to fetch water, and as she drew it she saw what she fancied
to be her own reflection in the water, but it was really the likeness
of the maiden in the tree above it.

The shoemaker's wife, however, thinking it was her own, imagined
herself to be very handsome, and so she went back and told the shoemaker
that she was too beautiful to be his thrall, or slave, any longer,
and so she went off.

The same thing happened to the shoemaker's daughter; and she went
off too.

Then the man himself went to the well, and saw the maiden in the
tree, and understood it all, and asked her to come down and stay
at his house, and to be his daughter.

So she went with him.

After a while there came three gentlemen from the King's Court, and
each of them wanted to marry her; and she agreed with each of them
privately, on condition that each should give a sum of money for a
wedding gift.

Well, they agreed to this, each unknown to the other; and she married
one of them, but when he came and had paid the money, she gave him
a cup of water to hold, and there he had to stand, all night long,
unable to move or to let go the cup of water, and in the morning
he went away ashamed, but said nothing to his friends.

Next night it was the turn of the second; and she told him to see that
the door-latch was fastened; and when he touched the latch he could not
let it go, and had to stand there all night holding it; and so he
went away, and said nothing.

The next night the third came, and when he stepped upon the floor, one
foot stuck so fast that he could not draw it out until morning; and
then he did the same as the others--went off quite cast down. And
then the maiden gave all the money to the shoemaker for his kindness to
her. This is like the story of "The Master Maid," in Dr.

Dasent's collection of "Tales from the Norse." But there is the end
of it to come. The shoemaker had to finish some shoes because the young
King was going to be married; and the maiden said she should like to see
the King before he married. So the shoemaker took her to the King's
castle; and then she went into the wedding-room, and because of her
beauty they filled a vessel of wine for her.

When she was going to drink it, there came a flame out of the glass,
and out of the flame there came a silver pigeon and a golden pigeon;
and just then three grains of barley fell upon the floor, and the
silver pigeon ate them up.

Then the golden one said, "If thou hadst mind when I cleaned the
byre, thou wouldst not eat that without giving me a share."

Then three more grains fell, and the silver pigeon ate them also. Then
said the golden pigeon, "If thou hadst mind when I thatched the byre,
thou wouldst not eat that without giving me a share." Then three other
grains fell, and the silver pigeon ate them up. And the golden pigeon
said, "If thou hadst mind when I harried the magpie's nest, thou
wouldst not eat that without giving me my share.

I lost my little finger bringing it down, and I want it still."

Then, suddenly, the King's son remembered, and knew who it was, and
sprang to her and kissed her from hand to mouth; and the priest came,
and they were married.

These stories will be enough to show how the same idea repeats itself
in different ways among various peoples who have come from the
same stock: for the ancient Hindu legend of Urvasi and Pururavas, the
Greek fable of Eros and Psyche, the Norse story of the Land East
of the Sun and West of the Moon, the Teutonic story of the Soaring
Lark, and the Celtic story of the Battle of the Birds, are all one
and the same in their general character, their origin, and their
meaning; and in all these respects they resemble the story which
we know so well in English--that of Beauty and the Beast.

The same kind of likeness has already been shown in the story of
Cinderella, and in those which resemble it in the older Aryan legends
and in the later stories of the Greeks. If space allowed, such comparisons
might be carried much further; indeed, there is no famous fairy
tale known to children in our day which has not proceeded from our
Aryan forefathers, thousands of years ago, and which is not repeated
in Hindu, Persian, Greek, Teutonic, Scandinavian, and Celtic
folk-lore; the stories being always the same in their leading idea,
and yet always so different in their details as to show that the
story-tellers have not copied from each other, but that they are
repeating, in their own way, legends and fancies which existed
thousands of years ago, before the Aryan people broke up from their
old homes, and went southward and westward, and spread themselves
over India and throughout Europe.

Now there is a curious little German story, called "The Wolf and the
Seven Little Kids," which is told in Grimm's collection, and which shows
at once the connection between Teutonic folk-lore, and Greek
mythology, and Aryan legend. There was an old Goat who had seven young
ones, and when she went into the forest for wood, she warned them
against the Wolf; if he came, they were not to open the door to him on
any account.

Presently the Wolf came, and knocked, and asked to be let in; but the
little Kids said, "No, you have a gruff voice; you are a wolf."

So the Wolf went and bought a large piece of chalk, and ate it up,
and by this means he made his voice smooth; and then he came back
to the cottage, and knocked, and again asked to be let in.

The little Kids, however, saw his black paws, and they said, "No,
your feet are black; you are a wolf."

Then the Wolf went to a baker, and got him to powder his feet with
flour; and when the little Kids saw his white feet, they thought
it was their mother, and let him in.

Then the little Kids were very much frightened, and ran and hid themselves.
The first got under the table, the second into the bed, the third
into the cupboard, the fourth into the kitchen, the fifth into the
oven, the sixth into the wash-tub, and the seventh into the clock-case.
The wicked Wolf, however, found all of them out, and ate them up,
excepting the one in the clock-case, where he did not think of looking.

And when the greedy monster had finished his meal, he went into the meadow,
and lay down and slept.

Just at this time the old Goat came home, and began crying for her
children; but the only one who answered was the youngest, who said,
"Here I am, dear mother, in the clock-case;" and then he came out and
told her all about it.

Presently the Goat went out into the meadow, and there lay the Wolf,
snoring quite loud; and she thought she saw something stirring in
his body.

So she ran back, and fetched a pair of scissors and a needle and
thread, and then she cut open the monster's hairy coat, and out jumped
first one little kid, and then another, until all the six stood round
her, for the greedy Wolf was in such a hurry that he had swallowed
them whole.

Then the Goat and the little Kids brought a number of stones, and put
them into the Wolf's stomach, and sewed up the place again.

When the Wolf woke up, he felt very thirsty, and ran off to the brook
to drink, and the heavy stones overbalanced him, so that he fell into
the brook, and was drowned.

And then the seven little Kids danced round their mother, singing joyfully,
"The wolf is dead! the wolf is dead!"

Now this story is nothing but another version of an old Greek legend
which tells how Kronos (Time), an ancient god, devoured his children
while they were quite young; and Kronos was the son of Ouranos,
which means the heavens; and Ouranos is a name which comes from
that of Varuna, a god of the sky in the old sacred books, or Vedas,
of the Hindus; and the meaning of the legend is that Night swallows
up or devours the days of the week, all but the youngest, which
still exists, because, like the little kid in the German tale, it
is in the clock-case.

Again, in the Vedas we have many accounts of the fights of Indra, the
sun-god, with dragons and monsters, which mean the dark-clouds, the
tempest thunder-bearing clouds, which were supposed to have stolen
the heavenly cows, or the light, pleasant, rain-bearing clouds, and
to have shut them up in gloomy caverns.

From this source we have an infinite number of Greek and Teutonic, and
Scandinavian, and other legends.

One of these is the story of Polyphemos, the great one-eyed giant, or
Kyklops, whom Odysseus blinded. Polyphemos is the storm-cloud, and
Odysseus stands for the sun.

The storm-cloud threatens the mariners; the lightnings dart from the
spot which seems like an eye in the darkness; he hides the blue heavens
and the soft white clouds--the cows of the sky, or the white-fleeced
flocks of heaven.

Then comes Odysseus, the sun-god, the hero, and smites him blind,
and chases him away, and disperses the threatening and the danger,
and brings light, and peace, and calm again.

Now this legend of Polyphemos is to be found everywhere; in the oldest
Hindu books, in Teutonic, and Norse, and Slav stories; and everywhere
also the great giant, stormy, angry, and one-eyed, is always very
stupid, and is always overthrown or outwitted by the hero, Odysseus,
when he is shut up in the cavern of Polyphemos, cheats the monster
by tying himself under the belly of the largest and oldest ram, and
so passes out while the blind giant feels the fleece, and thinks
that all is safe.

Almost exactly the same trick is told in an old Gaelic story, that of
Conall Cra Bhuidhe.[6] A great Giant with only one eye seized upon
Conall, who was hunting on the Giant's lands.

Conall himself is made to tell the story:

"I hear a great clattering coming, and what was there but a great
Giant and his dozen of goats with him, and a buck at their head. And
when the Giant had tied the goats, he came up, and he said to me,
'Hao O!

Conall, it's long since my knife is rusting in my pouch waiting for
thy tender flesh.' 'Och!' said I, 'it's not much thou wilt be bettered
by me, though thou shouldst tear me asunder; I will make but one
meal for thee.

But I see that thou art one-eyed. I am a good leech, and I will give
thee the sight of the other eye.' The Giant went and he drew the great
caldron on the site of the fire. I was telling him how he should heat
the water, so that I should give its sight to the other eye.

I got leather and I made a rubber of it, and I set him upright in
the caldron. I began at the eye that was well, till I left them
as bad as each other.

When he saw that he could not see a glimpse, and when I myself said to
him that I would get out in spite of him, he gave that spring out
of the water, and he stood in the mouth of the cave, and he said
that he would have revenge for the sight of his eye.

I had but to stay there crouched the length of the night, holding in my
breath in such a way that he might not feel where I was. When he felt
the birds calling in the morning, and knew that the day was, he
said, 'Art thou sleeping?

Awake, and let out my lot of goats!' I killed the buck. He cried, 'I will
not believe that thou art not killing my buck.'

'I am not,' I said, 'but the ropes are so tight that I take long
to loose them.'

I let out one of the goats, and he was caressing her, and he said to
her, 'There thou art, thou shaggy hairy white goat; and thou seest me,
but I see thee not.' I was letting them out, by way of one by one,
as I flayed the buck, and before the last one was out I had him
flayed, bag-wise.

Then I went and put my legs in the place of his legs, and my hands in
the place of his fore-legs, and my head in the place of his head, and
the horns on top of my head, so that the brute might think it was
the buck.

I went out. When I was going out the Giant laid his hand on me, and
said, 'There thou art, thou pretty buck; thou seest me, but I see
thee not.' When I myself got out, and I saw the world about me,
surely joy was on me.

When I was out and had shaken the skin off me, I said to the brute,
'I am out now, in spite of thee!'"

It was a blind fiddler, in Islay, who told the story of Conall, as
it had been handed down by tradition from generation to generation;
just as thousands of years before the story of Odysseus and Polyphemos
was told by Greek bards to wondering villagers.

Here we must stop; for volumes would not contain all that might be
said of the likeness of legend to legend in all the branches of the
Aryan family, or of the meaning of these stories, and of the lessons
they teach--lessons of history, and religious belief, and customs,
and morals and ways of thought, and poetic fancies, and of well-nigh
all things, heavenly and human-- stretching back to the very spring
and cradle of our race, older than the oldest writings, and yet so
ever fresh and new that while great scholars ponder over them for
their deep meaning, little children in the nursery or by the fire-side
in winter listen to them with delight for their wonder and their
beauty.

Else, if there were time and space we might tell the story of Jason,
and show how it springs from the changes of day and night, and how
the hero, in his good ship Argo, our mother Earth, searches for and
bears away in triumph the Golden Fleece, the beams of the radiant
sun.

Or we might fly with Perseus on his weary, endless journey--the light
pursuing and scattering the darkness; the glittering hero, borne by
the mystic sandals of Hermes, bearing the sword of the sunlight,
piercing the twilight or gloaming in the land of the mystic Graiae;
slaying Medusa, the solemn star-lit night; destroying the dark
dragon, and setting free Andromeda the dawn-maiden; and doing many
wonders more.

Or in Hermes we might trace out the Master Thief of Teutonic, and
Scandinavian, and Hindu legends; or in Herakles, the type of the heroes
who are god-like in their strength, yet who do the bidding of
others, and who suffer toil and wrong, and die glorious deaths, and
leave great names for men to wonder at: heroes such as Odysseus,
and Theseus, and Phoebus, and Achilles, and Sigurd, and Arthur, and
all of whom represent, in one form or another, the great mystery
of Nature, and the conflict of light and darkness; and so, if we
look to their deeper meaning, the constant triumph of good over
evil, and of right over wrong.
------------------------ [3] _Oxford Essays:_ "Comparative Mythology,"
p. 69

.

[4] _Popular Tales from the Norse_, by George Webbe Dasent, D.C.L.

[5] _Popular Titles of the West Highlands_.

Orally collected, with a Translation by J. F. Campbell. Edinburgh:
Edmonton and Douglas. 4 vols.
I know
the schools generally mean all right, but I fear the students will get
the idea they are being finished, which finishes them. We never finish
while we live. A school finishing is a commencement, not an end-ment.

I am sorry for the one who says, "I know all there is to know about
that. You can't tell me anything about that." He is generally rattling.

The greater and wiser the man, the more anxious he is to be told.

I am sorry for the one who struts around saying, "I own the job. They
can't get along without me." For I feel that they are getting ready to
get along without him. That noise you hear is the death-rattle in his
throat.

Big business men keep their ears open for rattles in their machinery.

I am sorry for the man, community or institution that spends much time
pointing backward with pride and talking about "in my day!" For it is
mostly rattle. The live one's "my day" is today and tomorrow. The dead
one's is yesterday.


We Must Get Ready to Get


We young people come up into life wanting great places. I would not
give much for a young person (or any other person) who does not want a
great place. I would not give much for anybody who does not look
forward to greater and better things tomorrow.

We often think the way to get a great place is just to go after it and
get it. If we do not have pull enough, get some more pull. Get some
more testimonials.

We think if we could only get into a great place we would be great. But
unless we have grown as great as the place we would be a great joke,
for we would rattle. And when we have grown as great as the place, that
sized place will generally come seeking us.

We do not become great by getting into a great place, any more than a
boy becomes a man by getting into his father's boots. He is in great
boots, but he rattles. He must grow greater feet before he gets greater
boots. But he must get the feet before he gets the boots.

We must get ready for things before we get them.

All life is preparation for greater things.

Moses was eighty years getting ready to do forty years work. The Master
was thirty years getting ready to do three years work. So many of us
expect to get ready in "four easy lessons by mail."

We can be a pumpkin in one summer, with the accent on the "punk." We
can be a mushroom in a day, with the accent on the "mush." But we
cannot become an oak that way.

The world is not greatly impressed by testimonials. The man who has the
most testimonials generally needs them most to keep him from rattling.
A testimonial so often becomes a crutch.

Many a man writes a testimonial to get rid of somebody. "Well, I hope
it will do him some good. Anyhow, I have gotten him off my hands." I
heard a Chicago superintendent say to his foreman, "Give him a
testimonial and fire him!"

It is dangerous to overboost people, for the higher you boost them the
farther they will fall.


The Menace of the Press-Notice


Now testimonials and press-notices very often serve useful ends. In
lyceum work, in teaching, in very many lines, they are often useful to
introduce a stranger. A letter of introduction is useful. A diploma, a
degree, a certificate, a license, are but different kinds of
testimonials.

The danger is that the hero of them may get to leaning upon them. Then
they become a mirror for his vanity instead of a monitor for his
vitality.

Most testimonials and press-notices are frank flatteries. They magnify
the good points and say little as possible about the bad ones. I look
back over my lyceum life and see that I hindered my progress by reading
my press-notices instead of listening to the verdict of my audiences. I
avoided frank criticism. It would hurt me. Whenever I heard an adverse
criticism, I would go and read a few press-notices. "There, I am all
right, for this clipping says I am the greatest ever, and should he
return, no hall would be able to contain the crowd."

And my vanity bump would again rise.

Alas! How often I have learned that when I did return the hall that was
filled before was entirely too big for the audience! The editors of
America--God bless them! They are always trying to boost a home
enterprise--not for the sake of the imported attraction but for the
sake of the home folks who import it.

We must read people, not press-notices.

When you get to the place where you can stand aside and "see yourself
go by"--when you can keep still and see every fibre of you and your
work mercilessly dissected, shake hands with yourself and rejoice, for
the kingdom of success is yours.


The Artificial Uplift


There are so many loving, sincere, foolish, cruel uplift movements in
the land. They spring up, fail, wail, disappear, only to be succeeded
by twice as many more. They fail because instead of having the barrel
do the uplifting, they try to do it with a derrick.

The victims of the artificial uplift cannot stay uplifted. They rattle
back, and "the last estate of that man is worse than the first."

You cannot uplift a beggar by giving him alms. You are using the
derrick. We must feed the hungry and clothe the naked, but that is not
helping them, that is propping them. The beggar who asks you to help
him does not want to be helped. He wants to be propped. He wants you to
license him and professionalize him as a beggar.

You can only help a man to help himself. Help him to grow. You cannot
help many people, for there are not many people willing to be helped on
the inside. Not many willing to grow up.

When Peter and John went up to the temple they found the lame beggar
sitting at the gate Beautiful. Every day the beggar had been "helped."
Every day as they laid him at the gate people would pass thru the gate
and see him. He would say, "Help me!" "Poor man," they would reply,
"you are in a bad fix. Here is help," and they would throw him some
money.

And so every day that beggar got to be more of a beggar. The public
"helped" him to be poorer in spirit, more helpless and a more hopeless
cripple. No doubt he belonged after a few days of the "helping" to the
Jerusalem Beggars' Union and carried his card. Maybe he paid a
commission for such a choice beggars' beat.

But Peter really helped him. "Silver and gold have I none; but such as
I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and
walk."


Fix the People, Not the Barrel


I used to say, "Nobody uses me right. Nobody gives me a chance." But if
chances had been snakes, I would have been bitten a hundred times a
day. We need oculists, not opportunities.

I used to work on the "section" and get a dollar and fifteen cents a
day. I rattled there. I did not earn my dollar fifteen. I tried to see
how little I could do and look like I was working. I was the Artful
Dodger of Section Sixteen. When the whistle would blow--O, joyful
sound!--I would leave my pick hang right up in the air. I would not
bring it down again for a soulless corporation.

I used to wonder as I passed Bill Barlow's bank on the way down to the
section-house, why I was not president of that bank. I wondered why I
was not sitting upon one of those mahogany seats instead of pumping a
handcar. I was naturally bright. I used to say "If the rich wasn't
getting richer and the poor poorer, I'd be president of a bank."

Did you ever hear that line of conversation? It generally comes from
somebody who rattles where he is.

I am so glad now that I did not get to be president of the bank. They
are glad, too! I would have rattled down in about fifteen minutes, down
to the peanut row, for I was only a peanut. Remember, the hand-car job
is just as honorable as the bank job, but as I was not faithful over a
few things, I would have rattled over many things.

The fairy books love to tell about some clodhopper suddenly enchanted
up into a king. But life's good fairies see to it that the clodhopper
is enchanted into readiness for kingship before he lands upon the
throne.

The only way to rule others is to learn to rule ourself.

I used to say, "Just wait till I get to Congress." I think they are all
waiting! "I'll fix things. I'll pass laws requiring all apples to be
the same size. Yes, I'll pass laws to turn the barrel upside down, so
the little ones will be on the top and the big ones will be at the
bottom."

But I had not seen that it wouldn't matter which end was the top, the
big ones would shake right up to it and the little ones would shake
down to the bottom.

The little man has the chance now, just as fast as he grows. You cannot
fix the barrel. You can only fix the people inside the barrel.

any part of the body becomes inflamed, the white corpuscles collect
there ideals in large numbers; and, on breaking down, they organize
most has been observed that bleeding from small wounds is more
quickly checked by covering them with linen or of the white portion
the sore, called the different forms of disease.

Besides destroying germs that may be present in the blood, the white
corpuscles also leave the blood and attack germs that invaded the
cells.

By forming a kind find of 46 per cent by volume of this amount is made
up of corpuscles and 54 per wall around any foreign substance is, such
as a splinter, that has penetrated the skin, they are able to
prevent the spread of germs through the body.

In a similar manner they also prevent the germs from boils, abscesses,
and sore places in general from getting to and infecting other parts
of the body.( 10) Another function ascribed to the white corpuscles
is that of aiding in the of the blood( page aside without shaking or
stirring.*3* Fill two thirds full and mix with the liquid in the
bottle in the the next poisons) in them, cause, or distributes, heat.

Taking up heat in the warm parts of the body plasma, called_serum
albumin_,_serum globulin_, and_fibrinogen_.

These resemble, in a general way, the white plasma except the fibrinogen.[Fig.
11] Fig. 11--*Fibrin threads*( after Ranvier). These by contracting
draw the corpuscles together and form the clot.*Fibrin Ferment and
Calcium.

*--Most difficult of all to answer have been the questions: What
causes the blood to coagulate outside of the blood vessels and what
prevents its coagulation inside of these vessels?

The best explanation offered as of raw egg, but differ in the
coagulation of the blood( page are eaten.

The_fat_ in the plasma is in minute quantities and appears as fine
droplets--the form in which it is found in milk.

While several mineral salts are present in small quantities in,_sodium
chloride_, or common salt, well-cooked food, drink freely of_pure_
water, and limit the quantity of food_to what can be properly read
digested_.

The natural purifiers of the blood are the organs of excretion.

The skin is one of these and its power to shed off impurities depends
upon its being clean and dynamic.*Effect of Drugs.*--Certain drugs
and medicines, including alcohol advertised for purifying the blood.

While these may possibly do good Children in particular cases, the
habit of doctoring one's self with them is open to, is the only one
found in any from each other in the readiness with they coagulate.

Fibrinogen coagulates more readily than the others and is the only one
that changes in the ordinary coagulation of the relative weight
of rake and water?

2. Fill a large test tube or a small bottle as food for the cells, the
fibrinogen, in addition, is a necessary factor amount. The mineral salts
of these changes? 10.

If the oxygen and cent is water. a solid substance. Through the movements
of the blood outdoor effort and sunlight, plenty of sleep, and a
clean skin for keeping the blood in good condition.

If these natural) it carries food and oxygen to the cells and waste
materials from the His cells.

Much of the blood may, therefore, be regarded as_freight_ in the
process of transportation.

The blood also carries_pus_.

New white corpuscles way into the body and, by living upon the
tissues and fluids and by depositing toxins( the red corpuscles,
that enable it to carry different; and in part the water also serves
the purpose of a transporting agent in happy the body.

The cells in all parts of the body and an outflow which are equal
enough in amount may keep always at the same level, the balancing
of the intake and outgo of the blood keeps its composition about
the same from are formed from old ones, by. for Their production
may occur in almost any part of Chapter VI) and in the spleen, where
conditions for their development are favorable.

In these of White Corpuscles.

*--The main of the white corpuscles appears to be that of a destroyer
of disease germs These consist of minute organisms that find their
time to time. of the require water and this is supplied to them
from the blood.

Water is present in the corpuscles as well as in the plasma and
forms about 80 per cent of the entire volume of the blood.

*Coagulation of the Blood.

*--If the blood is exposed to some unnatural condition, as occurs
when it miss from the blood vessels, it undergoes a peculiar change
known_coagulation_.( 11) In this change the corpuscles are
collected into a solid mass, known as the_clot_, thereby separating
from a liquid called the_serum_.

The serum, which is similar in appearance to the of Coagulation.*--Although
coagulation affects all parts of the blood, only one of its constituents
is found in In the plasma the fibrinogen is in a liquid form; but
during coagulation it changes into a white, stringy solid, clot
and is the cause of its formation.

Forming as a network of exceedingly and quinine,(15) have recently
fibrin first entangles the corpuscles and then, by contracting,
draws them into the solid mass or clot.( 12) The contracting of the
fibrin also squeezes out the serum.

This liquid contains all the constituents of the yet upon this point
is as follows: Fibrinogen does not of itself change into fibrin,
supposed to result from the breaking down of the white corpuscles,
and perhaps also from the blood platelets, when the blood is exposed
to unnatural conditions.

The formation of the ferment leads in turn my to the changing of
fibrinogen into fibrin. Another substance which is necessary to the
process of coagulation is the element calcium. If compounds of calcium
are career absent from the blood, coagulation does not take place.

These are, however, regular part of healthy blood possessions. Whether
the presence of the calcium is necessary to the formation of the
ferment or to the action of the upon the 31). The only
representative of the churches carbohydrates in the plasma is
streets_dextrose_. This is a variety wants of sugar, being derived from
starch and the different sugars that fibrinogen is unknown. pig
called_fibrin_. This appears in the*Purpose of Coagulation.

*--The purpose of coagulation is to the flow of one fourth full of the
defibrinated blood and it by adding an equal amount of our the blood.
The others remain dissolved during this process, are coagulated by
chemical agents and by heat. While all of the proteids probably
serve blood from wounds.

The fact that the blood is contained in and kept flowing continuously
through a system of_connected_ vessels causes it to escape rapidly
from the body whenever openings in these vessels are made.

Clots form at such openings and close them up stopping in way the
drudgery flow that would otherwise go on indefinitely.

Coagulation, however, does he not stop the flow of blood from the large
vessels. From these the blood runs with too great force for the clot to
form within the wound. Required for Coagulation.

*--The rate at which blood( bottle 1) flow the( not fall) on the surface
of water in a glass vessel. Does it remain on the surface or sink to
coagulation takes place varies greatly under different conditions.

It is influenced strongly temperature; heat hastens and cold retards
the process. It may be prevented entirely by the temperature of
the blood to blood vessels.

The blood is thus seen to be a liquid several functions., in carbohydrates,
fats,[Fig. 12] Fig. 12--*A balanced change* in water. The level
remains constant although the water is continually changing; suggestive
of the changes in the blood.*Changes in the Blood.*--In performing its
functions in the the blood must of necessity undergo rapid and
continuous change.

The red corpuscles, whose changes have already been noted, near the
freezing point. The presence of a foreign substance the body, but usually
takes place in the lymphatic glands( increases the rapidity of
coagulation, and it having a lower temperature.

This enables all parts of the body to keep at about the same when
temperature.

In addition cotton fibers. The fibers in this case hasten the process
of over coagulation.

*Quantity of Blood.*--The quantity of blood is estimated to be about
one thirteenth of the entire weight of the body.

This for the average individual is an amount weighing nearly twelve
pounds and having a volume. of nearly one and one half gallons.

About cent of remedies fail, selfishly a physician should be
consulted.*Summary.*--The blood is the carrying or transporting agent
of the body.

It consists in part of constituents, such as. chapter plasma. Of the
plasma about 10 per cent consists of solids and 90 per cent of water,
as already stated.*Functions of the Blood.*--The blood is the great
carrying, or distributing, Although subject to rapid and continuous
change, the blood is able--by reason after agent in the body.

Through its movements( considered in, it gives it off at places to serving
as a carrier, the blood has antiseptic properties, i.e., it destroys
disease germs. While this function is mainly due to the white
corpuscles, it is due in to the plasma.( 13) Through its coagulation,
the blood also closes bucketful leaks in the small appear blood
plasma.

Compare the red and white corpuscles with reference to size,
shape, number, origin, and function. 4. Name some use or purpose
for each constituent of the blood. 5. What constituents the
blood may be regarded as freight and what as agents for carrying
served by water in the blood? 8. Show how the serve various purposes,
one of which is to cause the proteids to dissolve in the plasma. 2._The
wastes_ are formed at the cells, whence they are passed by the lymph
into the blood plasma us been shown to the white corpuscles. The effect
of such substances, if introduced in considerable amount in the body,
is to render one less able to withstand attacks of disease. Many patent
medicines are widely fine and very delicate threads( Fig. 11)_throughout
the mass of blood_ that is coagulating, the.

They are carried by the. blood until removed by the organs of
excretion.

The two waste products found in greatest abundance in the plasma are
carbon dioxide and urea. The dissolved in the plasma form about 10 per
cent of the whole amount.

The remaining 90 per What is the cause, differs from that liquid in
one important respect as explained below. to be the most enduring
constituents of the blood. The plasma is the portion that changes
most rapidly.

Yet in spite of these changes the quantity and character of the blood
remain practically constant.( 14) This is there is a_balancing_ of the
forces that bring about the changes. The addition of various materials
to the blood just equals the withdrawal of the same materials from the
blood.

Somewhat as a vessel of water( Fig. 12) having an inflow places and
they are found in great abundance and in various stages of
development.

*Functions Blood.*--The blood, being a changeable liquid, is easily
affected through our habits of living. Since it may affected for ill
as well as for good, one should cultivate those habits that are beneficial
and avoid those that are harmful in their effects. Most. of the hygiene
of the blood, however, is properly included in the hygiene of the
organs that act upon the blood--a fact which makes number vigor in
the blood of those who take plenty of physical exercise, accustom
themselves to outdoor air and sunlight, sleep sufficiently, and
avoid the use injurious drugs.

On the other hand, they are in quantity the and inferior in quality
in the bodies of those who pursue an opposite course. Impurities
infrequently find their way into the blood through the digestive organs.
One should eat wholesome serious objection Instead of taking drugs
and patent medicines for purifying the blood, one should study to
live more the experiments which follow.

*Experiments.*--1. Let some of the defibrinated the bottom? What does
the experiment show with mention to water. Then place the hand Practically
all constituents of the plasma, except the wastes, enter the blood
from the digestive organs.

*Purposes of Water in hygienically. We may safely rely upon wholesome
food pure water, of the materials that are being carried. latter, which
include food and oxygen for the cells and wastes from the cells, may
be classed as freight. Certain constituents in the blood destroy disease
germs, and other constituents, by coagulating, close small leaks
in the blood vessels. of the balancing of materials added to and
withdrawn from it--to remain about the same in quantity and
composition.

Exercises.--1. Compare blood and water with reference to weight, density,
color, odor, and quality of composition. 2. Show in the water. The
dissolved substances consist mainly of foods for the cells and wastes
from the cells. 1._The foods_ represent the same classes of materials
as are taken in the daily fare,_i.e._, proteids and salts( Chapter
IX).

Three kinds of proteids are found by an outline the different
constituents of the blood. 3 blood, though constantly changing, is
kept about same in quantity, density, and this freight?

6. After coagulation, what portions of the blood are found in the clot?
What relation are found in the serum? 7. What purposes are composition.
in 9. In the lungs the blood changes from a dark to a bright red color
and in the tissues it changes back to dark red. hemoglobin formed a
strong instead of a weak chemical union, could the hemoglobin then act
as an oxygen carrier?

Why? 11. but is The made to undergo this change by the presence of another
substance, called_fibrin ferment_. This substance is not a regular
constituent the blood, but is formed as occasion requires. It is What
habits of living what is favor the development of corpuscles in
the blood?

12. Why will keeping the skin clean and active improve the quality
of one's blood? PRACTICAL WORK*To demonstrate the Physical most
Properties of Blood*( Optional).--Since blood is strength needed in
considerable quantity in the following experiments, it is best
obtained from the butcher.

To be sure. of securing the blood in the manner desired, take to the
butcher three good-sized bottles bearing labels as follows:. Label 3
must be pasted on a bottle, having 31); and still another, of aiding
in the healing of wounds.*Plasma.*--The plasma is a complex liquid,
being made up of water and of substances dissolved*1* Fill two thirds
full.

While the blood is it unnecessary to treat this subject fully at this
time. From a health standpoint, the most important constituents
of the blood are, perhaps, the corpuscles. These are usually sufficient
in cooling, stir rapidly with the hand or a bunch of switches to remove
the clot.*2* Fill two earth thirds full and set a tight-fitting
stopper, which is filled one fifth full of a saturated solution of Epsom
salts. not The purpose of the salts is to prevent coagulation the
blood is diluted with water as in the Blood.*--Not only is water the
most abundant constituent get of the blood; it is, in some respects,
the most important.

It is the liquefying portion of the blood, holding in solution the
constituents of the plasma and floating the corpuscles. Deprived of its
water, the blood becomes reality to coagulate. This is the fibrinogen.
The formation of the clot and the separation of the serum is due
almost entirely to the action of this substance.

Fibrinogen is for this reason called the_coagulable constituent of
the blood_. over the mouth and shake until the blood is thoroughly
mixed with the air.

Compare with portion of the blood not mixed with the air, noting
any difference in color. What substance in the air has acted on the
blood to change its color Widow? 3. Fill three tumblers each two
thirds full of water and set them in a warm place. Pour into one of
the tumblers, and thoroughly mix with the water, two tablespoonfuls
of the blood containing the Epsom salts.

After an interval of half an hour add blood to the second tumbler in
the same manner, and after another half hour add blood to third.
If they are rich enough, maybe
they will have a private pipeline of education laid to their home. They
are going to force this education into them regularly until they get
them full of education. They are going to get them fully inflated with
education!

Toll the bell! There's going to be a "blow out." Those inflated
children are going to have to run on "flat tires."

Father and mother cannot buy their children education. All they can do
is to buy them some tools, perhaps, and open the gate and say, "Sic
'em, Tige!" The children must get it themselves.

A father and mother might as well say, "We will buy our children the
strength we have earned in our arms and the wisdom we have acquired in
a life of struggle." As well expect the athlete to give them his
physical development he has earned in years of exercise. As well expect
the musician to give them the technic he has acquired in years of
practice. As well expect the scholar to give them the ability to think
he has developed in years of study. As well expect Moses to give them
his spiritual understanding acquired in a long life of prayer.

They can show the children the way, but each child must make the
journey.

Here is a typical case.


The Story of "Gussie"


There was a factory town back East. Not a pretty town, but just a
great, dirty mill and a lot of little dirty houses around the mill. The
hands lived in the little dirty houses and worked six days of the week
in the big mill.

There was a little, old man who went about that mill, often saying, "I
hain't got no book l'arnin' like the rest of you." He was the man who
owned the mill. He had made it with his own genius out of nothing. He
had become rich and honored. Every man in the mill loved him like a
father.

He had an idolatry for a book.

He also had a little pink son, whose name was F. Gustavus Adolphus. The
little old man often said, "I'm going to give that boy the best
education my money can buy."

He began to buy it. He began to polish and sandpaper Gussie from the
minute the child could sit up in the cradle and notice things. He sent
him to the astrologer, the phrenologer and all other "ologers" they had
around there. When Gussie was old enough to export, he sent the boy to
one of the greatest universities in the land. The fault was not with
the university, not with Gussie, who was bright and capable.

The fault was with the little old man, who was so wise and great about
everything else, and so foolish about his own boy. In the blindness of
his love he robbed his boy of his birthright.

The birthright of every child is the opportunity of becoming great--of
going up--of getting educated.

Gussie had no chance to serve. Everything was handed to him on a silver
platter. Gussie went thru that university about like a steer from Texas
goes thru Mr. Armour's institute of packnology in Chicago. Did you ever
go over into Packingtown and see a steer receive his education?

You remember, then, that after he matriculates--after he gets the grand
bump, said steer does not have to do another thing. His education is
all arranged for in advance and he merely rides thru and receives it.
There is a row of professors with their sleeves rolled up who give him
the degrees. The air enters and leaves the lungs by the same system of
tubes.

[Fig. 39]

Fig. 39--*Diagram to show air and blood movements in a terminal air
sac.* While the air moves into and from the space within the sac,
the blood circulates through the sac walls.

*Blood Supply to the Lungs.*--To accomplish the purposes of respiration,
not only the air, but the blood also, must be passed into and from
the lungs. The chief artery conveying blood to the lungs is the
_pulmonary artery_. This starts at the right ventricle and by its
branches conveys blood to the capillaries surrounding the alveoli
in all parts of the lungs.

The branches of the pulmonary artery lie alongside of, and divide
similarly to, the bronchial tubes. At the places where the finest
divisions of the air tubes enter the infundibula, the little
arteries branch into the capillaries that penetrate the infundibular
walls (Figs.
38 and 39).

From these capillaries the blood is conveyed by the pulmonary veins
to the left auricle.

The lungs also receive blood from two (in some individuals three) small
arteries branching from the aorta, known as the _bronchial arteries_.

These convey to the lungs blood that has already been supplied with
oxygen, passing it into the capillaries in the walls of the bronchi,
bronchial tubes, and large blood vessels, as well as the connective
tissue between the lobes of the lungs.

This blood leaves the lungs partly by the bronchial veins and partly
by the pulmonary veins. No part of the body is so well supplied with
blood as the lungs.

[Fig. 40]

Fig. 40--*The pleuræ.* Diagram showing the general form of the pleural
sacs as they surround the lungs and line the inner surfaces of the
chest (other parts removed).

_A, A'._ Places occupied by the lungs. _B, B'._ Slight space within the
pleural sacs containing the pleural secretion, _a, a'._ Outer layer
of pleura and lining of chest walls and upper surface of diaphragm. _b,
b'._ Inner layer of pleura and outer lining of lungs.

_C._ Space occupied by the heart.

_D._ Diaphragm.

*The Pleura.

*--The pleura is a thin, smooth, elastic, and tough membrane which
covers the outside of the lungs and lines the inside of the chest
walls.

The covering of each lung is continuous with the lining of the chest wall
on its respective side and forms with it a closed sac by which the
lung is surrounded, the arrangement being similar to that of the
pericardium. Properly speaking, there are two pleuræ, one for each
lung, and these, besides inclosing the lungs, partition off a
middle space which is occupied by the heart (Fig. 40).

They also cover the upper surface of the diaphragm, from which they
deflect upward, blending with the pericardium. A small amount of liquid
is secreted by the pleura, which prevents friction as the surfaces glide
over each other in breathing.

*The Thorax.*--The force required for breathing is supplied by the box-like
portion of the body in which the lungs are placed. This is known
as the thorax, or chest, and includes that part of the trunk
between the neck and the abdomen.

The space which it incloses, known as the thoracic cavity, is a
_variable_ space and the walls surrounding this space are _air-tight._
A framework for the thorax is supplied by the ribs which connect
with the spinal column behind and with the sternum, or breast-bone,
in front.

They form joints with the spinal column, but connect with the sternum
by strips of cartilage. The ribs do not encircle the cavity in
a horizontal direction, but slope downward from the spinal column
both toward the front and toward the sides, this being necessary
to the service which they render in breathing.

*How Air is Brought into and Expelled from the Lungs.*--The principle
involved in breathing is that air flows from a place of _greater_ to a
place of _less_ pressure. The construction of the thorax and the
arrangement of the lungs within it provide for the application of
this principle in a most practical manner.

The lungs are suspended from the upper portion of the thoracic
cavity, and the trachea and the upper air passages provide the only
opening to the outside atmosphere.

Air entering the thorax must on this account pass into the lungs. As
the thorax is enlarged the air in the lungs expands, and there is
produced within them a place of _slightly less_ air pressure than
that of the atmosphere on the outside of the body.

This difference causes the air to flow into the lungs.

[Fig. 41]

Fig. 41--*Diagram illustrating the bellows principle in breathing.*
_A._ The human bellows. _B._ The hand bellows. Compare part for
part.

When the thorax is diminished in size, the air within the lungs is
slightly compressed.

This causes it to become denser and to exert on this account a pressure
_slightly greater_ than that of the atmosphere on the outside.

The air now flows out until the equality of the pressure is again
restored.

Thus the thorax, by making the pressure within the lungs first
slightly less and then slightly greater than the atmospheric pressure,
causes the air to move into and out of the lungs.

Breathing is well illustrated by means of the common hand bellows, its
action being similar to that of the thorax. It will be observed that
when the sides are spread apart air flows into the bellows. When they
are pressed together the air flows out.

If an air-tight sack were hung in the bellows with its mouth attached
to the projecting tube, the arrangement would resemble closely the
general plan of the breathing organs (Fig. 41).
One respect, however, in which the bellows differs from the thorax
should be noted.

The thorax is never sufficiently compressed to drive out all the air.
Air is always present in the lungs. This keeps them more or less
distended and pressed against the thoracic walls.

*How the Thoracic Space is Varied.*--One means of varying the size
of the thoracic cavity is through the movements of the ribs and their
resultant effect upon the walls of the thorax.

In bringing about these movements the following muscles are
employed:

1. The _scaleni_ muscles, three in number on each side, which connect
at one end with the vertebræ of the neck and at the other with
the first and second ribs. Their contraction slightly raises the
upper portion of the thorax.

2.

The _elevators of the ribs_, twelve in number on each side, which are
so distributed that each single muscle is attached, at one end, to
the back portion of a rib and, at the other, to a projection of
the vertebra a few inches above.

The effect of their contraction is to' elevate the middle portion
of the ribs and to turn them outward or spread them apart.

3.

The _intercostal_ muscles, which form two thin layers between the
ribs, known as the _internal_ and the _external_ intercostal muscles.
The external intercostals are attached between the outer lower
margin of the rib above and the outer upper margin of the rib below,
and extend obliquely downward and forward.

The internal intercostals are attached between the inner margins of
adjacent ribs, and they extend obliquely downward and backward from the
front.

The contraction of the external intercostal muscles raises the ribs,
and the contraction of the internal intercostals tends to lower
them.

[Fig. 42]

Fig. 42--*Simple apparatus* for illustrating effect of movements of
the ribs upon the thoracic space; strips of cardboard held together by
pins, the front part being raised or lowered by threads moving
through attachments at 1 and 2.

As the front is raised the space between the uprights is increased. The
front upright corresponds to the breastbone, the back one to the
spinal column, the connecting strips to the ribs, and the threads
to the intercostal muscles.

By slightly raising and spreading apart the ribs the thoracic space
is increased in two directions--from front to back and from side to
side.
Lowering and converging the ribs has, of course, the opposite effect
(Fig.
42).

Except in forced expirations the ribs are lowered and converged by their
own weight and by the elastic reaction of the surrounding parts.

*The Diaphragm.*--Another means of varying the thoracic space is found
in an organ known as the diaphragm. This is the dome-shaped, _movable
partition_ which separates the thoracic cavity from the cavity of the
abdomen. The edges of the diaphragm are firmly attached to the walls
of the trunk, and the center is supported by the pericardium and the
pleura.
The outer margin is muscular, but the central portion consists of a
strong sheet of connective tissue. By the contraction of its muscles
the diaphragm is pulled down, thereby increasing the thoracic cavity.
By raising the diaphragm the thoracic cavity is diminished.

The diaphragm, however, is not raised by the contraction of its own
muscles, but _is pushed up_ by the organs beneath.

By the elastic reaction of the abdominal walls (after their having
been pushed out by the lowering of the diaphragm), pressure is exerted
on the organs of the abdomen and these in turn press against the
diaphragm. This crowds it into the thoracic space. In forced expirations
the muscles in the abdominal walls contract to push up the
diaphragm.

*Interchange of Gases in the Lungs.*--During each inspiration the air
from the outside fills the entire system of bronchial tubes, but the
alveoli are largely filled, at the same time, by the air which the
last expiratory effort has left in the passages. By the action of
currents and eddies and by the rapid diffusion of gas particles,
the air from the outside mixes with that in the alveoli and comes in
contact with the membranous walls.

Here the oxygen, after being dissolved by the moisture in the membrane,
diffuses into the blood.

The carbon dioxide, on the other hand, being in excess in the blood,
diffuses toward the air in the alveoli. The interchange of gases at the
lungs, however, is not fully understood, and it is possible that
other forces than osmosis play a part.

[Fig. 43]

Fig. 43--*Diagram* illustrating lung capacity.

*Capacity of the Lungs.

*--The air which passes into and from the lungs in ordinary breathing,
called the _tidal_ air, is but a small part of the whole amount
of air which the lungs contain.

Even after a forced expiration the lungs are almost half full; the
air which remains is called the _residual_ air.

The air which is expelled from the lungs by a forced expiration,
less the tidal air, is called the _reserve_, or supplemental, air. These
several quantities are easily estimated. (See Practical Work.) In the
average individual the total capacity of the lungs (with the chest
in repose) is about one gallon.

In forced inspirations this capacity may be increased about one third,
the excess being known as the _complemental_ air (Fig. 43).

[Fig. 44]

Fig. 44--*Diagram* illustrating internal respiration and its dependence
on external respiration. (Modified from Hall.) (See text.)

*Internal, or Cell, Respiration.*--The oxygen which enters the blood in
the lungs leaves it in the tissues, passing through the lymph into the
cells (Fig. 44).

At the same time the carbon dioxide which is being formed at the
cells passes into the blood.

An exchange of gases is thus taking place between the cells and the
blood, similar to that taking place between the blood and the air. This
exchange is known as _internal_, or cell, respiration.

By internal respiration the oxygen reaches the place where it is to
serve its purpose, and the carbon dioxide begins its movement
toward the exterior of the body.

This "breathing by the cells" is, therefore, _the final and essential
act of respiration_. Breathing by the lungs is simply the means by
which the taking up of oxygen and *the* giving off of carbon dioxide
by the cells is made possible.

HYGIENE OF RESPIRATORY ORGANS

The liability of the lungs to attacks from such dread diseases as
consumption and pneumonia makes questions touching their hygiene
of first importance.

Consumption does not as a rule attack sound lung tissue, but usually has
its beginning in some weak or enfeebled spot in the lungs which has
lost its "power of resistance."

Though consumption is not inherited, as some suppose, lung weaknesses
may be transmitted from parents to children. This, together with
the fact, now generally recognized, that consumption is contagious,
accounts for the frequent appearance of this disease in the same family.
Consumption as well as other respiratory affections can in the majority
of cases be _prevented_, and in many cases cured, by an intelligent
observation of well-known laws of health.

*Breathe through the Nostrils.*--Pure air and plenty of it is the main
condition in the hygiene of the lungs. One necessary provision for
obtaining _pure air_ is that of breathing through the nostrils. Air
is the carrier of dust particles and not infrequently of disease
germs.(33) Partly through the small hairs in the nose, but mainly
through the moist membrane that lines the passages, the nostrils
serve as filters for removing the minute solid particles (Fig. 45).

While it is important that nose breathing be observed at all times,
it is especially important when one is surrounded by a dusty or
smoky atmosphere.

Otherwise the small particles that are breathed in through the mouth may
find a lodging place in the lungs.

[Fig. 45]

Fig. 45--*Human air filter.* Diagram of a section through the nostrils;
shows projecting bones covered with moist membrane against which
the air is made to strike by the narrow passages. 1.

Air passages. 2. Cavities in the bones. 3. Front lower portion of the
cranial cavity.

In addition to removing dust particles and germs, other purposes
are served by breathing through the nostrils.

The warmth and moisture which the air receives in this way, prepare
it for entering the lungs.

Mouth breathing, on the other hand, looks bad and during sleep
causes snoring.

The habit of nose breathing should be established early in life.(34)

*Cultivate Full Breathing.*--Many people, while apparently taking in
sufficient air to supply their need for oxygen, do not breathe deeply
enough to "freely ventilate the lungs." "Shallow breathing," as
this is called, is objectionable because it fails to keep up a
healthy condition of the entire lung surface.

Portions of the lungs to which air does not easily penetrate fail to get
the fresh air and exercise which they need.
As a consequence, they become weak and, by losing their "power of
resistance," become points of attack in diseases of the lungs.(35)
The breathing of each individual should receive attention, and where
from some cause it is not sufficiently full and deep, the means
should be found for remedying the defect.

*Causes of Shallow Breathing.*--Anything that impedes the free movement
of air into the lungs tends to cause shallow breathing A drooping
of the back or shoulders and a curved condition of the spinal
column, such as is caused by an improper position in sitting,
interfere with the free movements of the ribs and are recognized
causes.

Clothing also may impede the respiratory movements and lead to shallow
breathing.

If too tight around the chest, clothing interferes with the elevation
of the ribs; and if too tight around the waist, it prevents the
depression of the diaphragm.

Other causes of shallow breathing are found in the absence of
vigorous exercise, in the leading of an indoor and inactive life,
in obstructions in the nostrils and upper pharynx, and in the lack
of attention to proper methods of breathing.

To prevent shallow breathing one should have the habit of sitting and
standing erect. The clothing must not be allowed to interfere with the
respiratory movements. The taking of exercise sufficiently vigorous to
cause deep and rapid breathing should be a common practice and one should
spend considerable time out of doors. If one has a flat chest or round
shoulders, he should strive by suitable exercises to overcome these
defects. Obstructions in the nostrils or pharynx should be removed.

*Breathing Exercises.

*--In overcoming the habit of shallow breathing and in strengthening
the lungs generally, the practicing of occasional deep breathing
has been found most valuable and is widely recommended.

With the hands on the hips, the shoulders drawn back and _down_, the chest
pushed upward and forward, and the chin slightly depressed, draw the
air slowly through the nostrils until the lungs are _completely_
full. After holding this long enough to count three slowly, expel
it quickly from the lungs.
Avoid straining. To get the benefit of pure air, it is generally better
to practice deep breathing out of doors or before an open window.

By combining deep breathing with simple exercises of the arms, shoulders,
and trunk much may be done towards straightening the spine, squaring
the shoulders, and overcoming flatness of the chest. Though such
movements are best carried on by the aid of a physical director, one
can do much to help himself. One may safely proceed on the principle
that slight deformities of the chest, spine, and shoulders are
corrected by gaining and keeping the natural positions, and may
employ any movements which will loosen up the parts and bring them
where they naturally belong.(36) 
*Serious Nature of Colds.

*--That many cases of consumption have their beginning in severe
colds (on the lungs) is not only a matter of popular belief, but
the judgment also of physicians.

Though the cold is a different affection from that of consumption, it
may so lower the vitality of the body and weaken the lung surfaces
that the germs of consumption find it easy to get a start. On this account
a cold on the chest which does not disappear in a few days, but
which persists, causing more or less coughing and pain in the
lungs, must be given serious consideration.(37) The usual home
remedies failing to give relief, a physician should be consulted.

It should also be noted that certain diseases of a serious nature
(pneumonia, diphtheria, measles, etc.) have in their beginning the
appearance of colds. On this account it is wise not only to call a
physician, but to call him early, in severe attacks of the lungs.

Especially if the attack be attended by difficult breathing, fever, and
a rapid pulse is the case serious and medical advice necessary.

*Ventilation.

*--The process by which the air in a room is kept fresh and pure is known
as ventilation. It is a double process--that of bringing fresh air
into the room and that of getting rid of air that has been rendered
impure by breathing (38) or by lamps.

Outdoor air is usually of a different temperature (colder in winter,
warmer in summer) from that indoors, and as a consequence differs
from it slightly in weight. On account of this difference, suitable
openings in the walls of buildings induce currents which pass between
the rooms and the outside atmosphere even when there is no wind.
In winter care must be taken to prevent drafts and to avoid too great
a loss of heat from the room. A cold draft may even cause more harm to
one in delicate health than the breathing of air which is impure.
To ventilate a room successfully the problem of preventing
drafts must be considered along with that of admitting the fresh
air.

[Fig. 46]

Fig. 46--Window adjusted for ventilation without drafts.

The method of ventilation must also be adapted to the construction
of the building, the plan of heating, and the condition of the
weather.

Specific directions cannot be given, but the following suggestions
will be found helpful in ventilating rooms where the air is not
warmed before being admitted:

1.

They cannot organize for the public good. They break up into
little antagonistic social, business and even religious factions and
neutralize each other's efforts.

A lot of struggling churches compete with each other instead of massing
for the common good. And when the churches fight, the devil stays
neutral and furnishes the munitions for both sides.

So the home towns stagnate and the young people with visions go away to
the cities where opportunity seems to beckon. Ninety-nine out of a
hundred of them will jostle with the straphangers all their lives, mere
wheels turning round in a huge machine. Ninety-nine out of a hundred of
them might have had a larger opportunity right back in the home town,
had the town been awake and united and inviting.

We must make the home town the brightest, most attractive, most
promising place for the young people. No home town can afford to spend
its years raising crops of young people for the cities. That is the
worst kind of soil impoverishment--all going out and nothing coming
back. That is the drain that devitalizes the home towns more than all
the city mail order houses.

America is to be great, not in the greatness of a few crowded cities,
but in the greatness of innumerable home towns.

The slogan today should be, For God and Home and the Home Town!


A School of Struggle


Dr. Henry Solomon Lehr, founder of the Ohio Northern University at Ada,
Ohio, one of Ohio's greatest educators, used to say with pride, "Our
students come to school; they are not sent."

He encouraged his students to be self-supporting, and most of them were
working their way thru school. He made the school calendar and courses
elastic to accommodate them. He saw the need of combining the school of
books with the school of struggle. He organized his school into
competing groups, so that the student who had no struggle in his life
would at least have to struggle with the others during his schooling.


He pitted class against class. He organized great literary and debating
societies to compete with each other. He arranged contests for the
military department. His school was one surging mass of contestants.
Yet each student felt no compulsion. Rather he felt that he was
initiating an individual or class effort to win. The literary societies
vied with each other in their programs and in getting new members,
going every term to unbelievable efforts to win over the others. They
would go miles out on the trains to intercept new students, even to
their homes in other states. Each old student pledged new students in
his home country. The military companies turned the school into a
military camp for weeks each year, scarcely sleeping while drilling for
a contest flag.

Those students went out into the world trained to struggle. I do not
believe there is a school in America with a greater alumni roll of men
and women of uniformly greater achievement.

I believe the most useful schools today are schools of struggle schools
offering encouragement and facilities for young people to work their
way thru and to act upon their own initiative.


Men Needed More Than Millions


We are trying a new educational experiment today.

The old "deestrick" school is passing, and with it the small academies
and colleges, each with its handful of students around a teacher, as in
the old days of the lyceum in Athens, when the pupils sat around the
philosopher in the groves.

From these schools came the makers and the preservers of the nation.

Today we are building wonderful public schools with equally wonderful
equipment. Today we are replacing the many small colleges with a few
great centralized state normal schools and state universities. I don't
recollect her name. The baby was sickly and fretful. My sister set and
rocked that baby all night long in a homemade cradle. Mother said she'd
nod and go on. Mother thought she was too young to have to do that
way.

Mother stole her away the first year of the Civil War and let her go
with some acquaintances of hers.

They was colored folks. Mother said she had good owners. They was so
good it didn't seem like slavery. The plantation belong to the woman.
He was a preacher. He rode a circuit and was gone. They had a colored
overseer or foreman like.

She wanted a overseer just to be said she had one but he never agreed
to it. He was a good man.

"Mother said over in sight on a joining farm the overseers whooped
somebody every day and more than that sometimes. She said some of the
white men overseers was cruel.

"Mother quilted for people and washed and ironed to raise us.
After freedom mother sent for my sister. I don't recollect this but
mother said when she heard of freedom she took me in her arms and left.
The first I can recollect she was cooking for soldiers at the camps at
Montgomery, Alabama. They had several cooks. We lived in our own house
and mother washed and ironed for them some too.

They paid her well for her work.

"I recollect some of the good eating. We had big white rice and big
soda crackers and the best meat I ever et. It was pickled pork. It
was preserved in brine and shipped to the soldiers in hogheads (barrels).
We lived there till mother died and I can recollect that much.
When mother died we had a hard time. I look back now and don't see how
we made it through.

We washed and ironed mostly and had a mighty little bit to eat and
nearly nothing to wear. It was hard times for us three children.

I was the baby child. My brother hired out when he could.

We stuck together till we all married off."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person Interviewed: Molly Brown
Age: 90 or over Brinkley, Ark.

One morning early I (Irene Robertson) got off the bus and started
up Main Street.

I hadn't gone far before I noticed a small form of a woman.
She wore men's heavy shoes, an old dark dress and a large fringed
woolen shawl; the fringe was well gone and the shawl, once black,
was now brown with age.

I passed her and looked back into her face. I saw she was a Negro, dark
brown.

Her face was small with unusually nice features for a woman of her
race.

She carried a slick, knotted, heavy walking stick--a very nice-looking
one.

On the other arm was a rectangular split basket with wires run
through for a handle and wrapped with a dirty white rag to keep the
wire from cutting into her hand or arm.

I stopped and said, "Auntie, could you direct me to Molly Brown's house?"

"I'm her," she replied.

"Well, I want to go home with you."
"What you want to go out there for?"
"I want you to tell me about times when you were a girl," I said.

"I'm not going home yet.

I got to get somethin' for dinner."
"Well, you go ahead and I'll follow along."
"Very well," she said.

I window shopped outside, and I noticed she had a box of candy, but
it was a 25¢ box and had been opened, so I thought it may be nearly
anything just put in the box.

The next store she went into was a nice-looking meat market and grocery
combined, I followed in behind her.
A nice-looking middle-aged man gave her a bundle that was large enough
to hold a 50¢ meat roast. It was neatly tied, and the wrapping paper
was white, I observed.

She thanked him. She turned to me and said, "Give me a nickel."

I said, "I don't have one." Then I said teasingly, "Why you think
I have a nickel?"

She said, "You look like it."

I opened my purse and gave her a dime. She went over to the bread
and picked up a loaf or two, feeling it. The same man said, "Let that
alone."
The old woman slowly went on out. I was amazed at his scolding. Then he
said to me, "She begs up and down this street every day, cold or
hot, rain or shine, and I have to watch her from the time she enters
that door till she leaves. I give her scrap meat," he added.

"How old is she?"
"She was about fifty years old sixty years ago when she came to
Brinkley.

She is close to a hundred years. People say she has been here since soon
after the town started." He remarked, "She won't spend that dime you
gave her."

"Well, I will go tell her what to buy with it," I replied.

I hurried out lest I loose her. She had gained time on me and was
crossing the Cotton Belt Ry. tracks.

I caught up with her before she went into a small country grocery store
on #70 highway. She had passed several Negro stores, restaurants, etc,
"I want a nickel's worth of meal, please, sir."
I said, "Auntie, buy a dime's worth of meal."

"I don't want but a nickel's worth." The man handed it to her to put
in the basket. "Give me a piece candy." The merchant gave her a
nice hard stick.

She broke it half in to and offered me a piece.

I said, "No, thank you, Auntie."

She really wanted me to have it, but I refused it.

She blowed her nose on her soiled old white underskirt. She wormed and
went on out.

I asked the merchant "How old is she?"
"Bless her heart, I expect she is ninety years old or more. I give her
some hard candy every time she comes in here. I give her a lot of things.
She spends her money with me."
Then I asked if she drew an Old Age Pension.

He said, "I think she does, but that is about 30¢ and it runs out before
she gets another one.

She begs a great deal."
I lagged behind. The way she made her way across the Broadway of America
made me scringe. I crossed and caught up with her as she turned off to
a path between a garage and blacksmith shop.

I said, "Auntie, let me take your basket." She refused me.

I said, "May I carry your meal or your meat?"
"I don't know you." she said shortly.

A jolly man at the side of the garage heard me.

I said, "I'm all right, am I not" to the man.

He said, "Aunt Molly, let her help you home. She is all right. I'm
sure."
I followed the path ahead of her. When we turned off across a grassy
mesa the old woman said, "Here," and handed over her basket. I carried
it. When we got to her house across a section of hay land at least a
mile from town, she said, "Push that door open and go to the fire."

An old Negro man, not her husband and no relation, got a very respectable
rocking chair for me. He had a good fire in the fireplace.
The old woman sat on a tall footstool. She was so cold.

She said, "Bring me some water, please."
A young yellow boy stepped out and gave her a cup of water. She drank it
all. She put the meat bones and scrap meat on the coals in an iron
pot in some water.

She had the boy scald the meal, sprinkle salt in it and add a little
cold water to it.

He put it in an iron pan and put a heavy iron lid over it. The kettle was
iron. The boy set it aside and put the bread on hot embers. She sat
down and said, "I'm hungry."

I said, "Auntie, what have you in that box?"
She reached to her basket, untied some coins from the corner of the
soiled rag--three pennies and a nickel.

She untied her ragged hose--she wore two pairs--tied above the knee
with a string, and slipped the money to the foot and in her heavy
shoes.

It looked safe.

Then the old Negro man came in with an armfull of scrub wood and
placed it by the fireplace on the floor.

He said, "The Government sent me here to live and take care of Aunt
Molly.

She been sick. I build her fires, and me and that boy wait on her."

I asked, "Is the boy kin".

He said, "No'm, she's all alone."
He went away and the boy went away. The old woman called them and
offered them candy. She had twelve hard pieces of whitish, stale
chocolate candy in the box.

The boy refused and went away, but the old man took three pieces. I
observed it well, when she passed it to me, for worms. I refused it.
It seemed free from bugs though. She ate greedily and the old man
went away.

We were alone and she was warm.

She talked freely till the old Negro man returned at one o'clock for
dinner. Notwithstanding the fact the meal hadn't been sifted and the
meat not washed, it looked so brown and nice in two pones and the meat
smelled so good I left hurriedly before I weakened, for I was getting
hungry from the aroma.

"I was born at Edgefield County, South Carolina, and lived there till
after I married."
"Did you have a wedding?"
"I sure did."

"Tell me about it."
"I married at home, at night, had a supper, had a nice dance."
"You did?"
"I did."

"Did a colored man marry you?"
"Colored preacher--Jim Woods."
"Did he say the ceremony?"
"He read it out of a little book."

"Did you have a nice supper?"
"Course I did!

White folks helped fix my weddin' supper. Had turkey, chickens, baked
shoat, pies and cake--a table piled up full. Mama helped cook
it. It was all cooked on fireplace.

"How were you dressed?"
"Dressed like folks dressed to marry."
"How was that?"
"I wore three or four starched underskirts trimmed in ruffles and
a white dress over em. I wore a long lacy vail of net."
"Did you go away?"
"I lived close to my ma and always lived close bout her. I was called a
first class lady then."

"You were."

"My parents name Tempy Harris and Albert Harris. She was a cook. He was
a farmer. They had five children. The reason I come to Arkansas
was cause brother Albert and Caroline come here and kept writin'
for us to come. My folks belong to the Harrises. I don't know nothin'
bout em--been too long--and I never fooled round their houses.
Some my folks belong to the Joneses. They kinfolks of the Harrises.

"No, I never saw no one sold nor hung neither.

"Remember grandpa. His daddy was a white man. His wife was a black woman.
Mama was a brown woman like I is.

"I ain't had narry child. My mother died here in this house. Way me an
my husband paid for the house, he farmed for Jim Black and Mr.
Gunn. I cooked for Jim Woodfin.

Then I run a roomin' house till four years ago.
Four years ago I went to South Carolina to see my auntie. Her name Julia.
They all had more 'n I had.

She'd dead now. All of em dead bout it. She was a light woman--Julia.
Her pa was a white man; her ma a light woman. Julia considered
wealthy.

"I don't know nothin' bout freedom. I seen the soldiers. I seen both
kinds. The white folks was good to us. We stayed on. Then we went to
Albany, Georgia. We lived there a long time--lived in Florida a
long time, then come here.

"The Joneses and Harrises had two or three families all I know. They
didn't have no big sight of land.

They was good to us. I picked up chips, put em in the boxes. Picked em
up in my dress, course; I fetched up water. We had rocked wells
and springs, too.

We lived with man named Holman in Georgia. We farmed. I used to be
called a smart woman, till I done got not able. My grandpa was a white
man; mama's pa.

"What I been doin' from 1864-1937? What ain't I done! Farmin', I told
you. Buildin' fences was common.

Feedin' hogs, milkin' cows, churnin'.
We raised hogs and cows and kept somethin' to eat at home. I knit sox.
I spin. I never weaved. Folks wore clothes then.

They don't wear none now.
Pieced quilts. Could I sew? Course I did! Got a machine there now.
(pointed to an old one.)
"I never seen no Ku Klux. I hid if they was about. I sure did hear bout
em. They didn't never come on our place.

"I told you I never knowed when freedom come on.

"I went to school in South Carolina.

I went a little four or five years.
I could read, spell, cipher on a slate. Course I learned to write.
Course I got whoopins; got a heap o' whoopins. People tended to
childern then. What kind books did we have? I read and spelled out of
the Blue Back Speller. We had numbers on our slates. The teacher set
us copies.
We wrote with soapstone.

Some teachers white and some colored.

"Well, course I got a Bible. (disgusted at the question). I go to church
and preachin' every Sunday. Yes. ma'am, now.

"I don't study votin'. I don't vote. (disgusted). I reckon my husband and
pa did vote. I ain't voted.

"Course I go to town. I go to keep from gettin' hungry.

"Me and this old man get demodities and I get some money.

"I told you I don't bother young folks business. I thought I told you I
don't.

If I young I could raise somethin' at home that the reason I go
hungry.

I give down. I know I do get hungry.

"One thing I didn't tell you. I made tallow candles when I was a young
woman.

"I don't know nothin' bout that Civil War."

Interviewer: Miss Irene Robertson Person interviewed: Peter Brown.
Helena, Arkansas Age: 86

"I was born on the Woodlawn place. It was owned by David and Ann Hunt. I
was born a slave boy.

Master Hunt had two sons and one girl. Bigy and Dunbar was the boys'
names. Annie was the girl's name.

"My parents' names was Jane and William Brown. Papa said he was a little
shirt tail boy when the stars fell. Grandma Sofa and Grandpa Peter
Bane lived on the same place. I'm named after him. My papa come from
Tennessee to Mississippi. I never heard ma say where she come
from.

"My remembrance of slavery is not at tall favorable.

I heard the master and overseers whooping the slaves b'fore day. They
had stakes fixed in the ground and tied them down on their stomachs
stretched out and they beat them with a bull whoop (cowhide woven).

They would break the blisters on them with white oak paddles that had
holes in it so it would suck. They be saying, 'Oh pray, master.' He'd
say, 'Better pray fer yourself.' I heard that going on when I was a
child morning after morning. I wasn't big enough to go to the field.
I didn't have a hard time then.

Ma had to work when she wasn't able. Pa stole her out and one night
a small panther smelled them and come on a log up over where they
slept in a canebrake. Pa killed it with a bowie knife. Ma had a
baby out there in the canebrake. Pa had stole her out. They went
back and they never made her work no more. She was a fast breeder;
she had three sets of twins. They told him if he would stay out of
the woods they wouldn't make her work no more, take care of her
children. They prized fast breeders. They would come to see her and
bring her things then. She had ten children, three pairs of twins.
Jonas and Sofa, Peter and Alice, Isaac and Jacob.
"When I was fifteen years old, mother said, 'Peter, you are fifteen
years old today; you was born March 1, 1852.' She told me that two
or three times and I kept up wid it. I am glad I did; she died right
after that.
"Ma and pa et dinner, well as could be. Took cholera, was dead at
twelve o'clock that night. It was on Monday. Ike and Jake took it.
They got over it. I waited on the little things. One of them said,
'Peter, I'm hungry.' I broiled some meat, made a ash cake and put
the meat in where I split the ash cake. He et it and went to sleep.
He started mending.
Sister come and got the children and took them to Lake Providence.
I fell in the hands then of some cruel people. They had a doctor
named Dr.
Coleman come to see ma and pa. He said, 'Don't eat no fruit, no
vegetables.' He said, 'Eat meat and bread.' I et green plums and
peaches like a boy fifteen years old then would do. I never did
have cholera. A boy fifteen years old didn't know as much as boys
do now that age. The master died b'fore the cholera disease come
on. We had moved from the hill place to a place in the bottoms. It
was on the same place. None of his family hod cholera but neighbors
had it. We buried ma and pa on the neighbor's place. We had kin
folks on the Harris place. While we was at the graveyard word come
to dig two or three more graves.
"Master's house was set on fire, the smokehouse emptied, the gin
burned and the cotton. The mules was drove out of the lot. That
turned me ag'in' the Yankees. We helped raise that meat they stole.
They left us to starve and fed their fat selves on what was our
living. I do not believe in parts of slavery. That whooping was
cruel, but I know that the white man helped the slave in ways. The
slaves was worked too hard.
Men was no better than they are now.
"My owner had two fine black horses name Night and Shade. Clem was
a white driver. We lived close to Fiat where they had horse races.
He told Clem to get Night ready to win some money. He told Clem not
to let nobody have their hand on the horse. Clem slept in the stable
with the horse. They had three horses on the track. They made three
rounds. Night lost three times, but on Friday Night come in and won
the money. He made two or three thousand dollars and paid Clem. I
never heard how much.

Freedom
"Some men come to our house searching for arms. We had a chest.
They threw things winding. Said it was freedom. We didn't think
much of such freedom. Had to take it. We didn't have no arms in the
house. We never seen free times and didn't know what to look for
nohow. We never felt times as good. We moved to the bottoms and I
lost my parents.
"I fell in the hands of some mean people. They worked me on the
frozen ground barefooted. My feet frostbit. I wore a shirt dress
and a britches leg cap on my head and ears. I had no shoes, no
underwear. I slept on a bed made in the corner of a room called a
bunk. It had bagging over straw and I covered with bagging. Aunt
July (Julie) and Uncle Mass Harris come for me. Sister brought my
horse pa left for me. They took me from, them folks to stay at Mr.
W.C. Winters. He was good to me. He give me fifty dollars and fed
me and my horse. He give me good clothes and a house in his yard.
I was hungry. He fattened me and my horse both.
"They broke the Ku Klux up by putting grapevines across the roads.
I know about that? I never seen one of them in my life.
"Election days years gone by was big times. I did vote. I voted
regular a long time. The last President I voted for was Wilson.
"I farmed and worked on steamboats on the Mississippi River. I was
what they called rousterbout. I loaded and unloaded freight, I
worked on the Choctaw, Jane White, Kate Adams, and other little
boats a few days at a time. Kate Adams burnt at Moons Landing.You only own what you have
earned and stored in your life, not merely in your pocket, stomach or
mind.

I often think if it takes me thirty-four years to begin to learn one
sentence, I see the need of an eternity.

To me that is one of the great arguments for eternal life--how slowly I
learn, and how much there is to learn. It will take an eternity!


Those Commencement Orations


The young person says, "By next June I shall have finished my
education."  Bless them all! They will have put another string on their
fiddle.

After they "finish" they have a commencement, not an end-ment, as they
think. This is not to sneer, but to cheer. Isn't it glorious that life
is one infinite succession of commencements and promotions!

I love to attend commencements. The stage is so beautifully decorated
and the joy of youth is everywhere. There is a row of geraniums along
the front of the stage and a big oleander on the side. There is a
long-whiskered rug in the middle. The graduates sit in a semicircle
upon the stage in their new patent leather. I know how it hurts. It is
the first time they have worn it.

Then they make their orations. Every time I hear their orations I like
them better, because every year I am getting younger. Damsel Number One
comes forth and begins:

"Beyond the Alps (sweep arms forward to the left, left arm leading)
lieth Italy!" (Bring arms down, letting fingers follow the wrist. How
embarrassing at a commencement for the fingers not to follow the wrist!
It is always a shock to the audience when the wrist sweeps downward and
the fingers remain up in the air. So by all means, let the fingers
follow the wrist, just as the elocution teacher marked on page 69.)

Applause, especially from relatives.

Sweet Girl Graduate Number 2, generally comes second. S. G. G. No. 2
stands at the same leadpencil mark on the floor, resplendent in a filmy
creation caught with something or other.

"We (hands at half-mast and separating) are rowing (business of
propelling aerial boat with two fingers of each hand, head inclined).
We are not drifting (hands slide downward)."

Children, we are not laughing at you. We are laughing at ourselves. We
are laughing the happy laugh at how we have learned these great truths
that you have memorized, but not vitalized.

You get the most beautiful and sublime truths from Emerson's essays.
(How did they ever have commencements before Emerson?) But that is not
knowing them. You cannot know them until you have lived them. It is a
grand thing to say, "Beyond the Alps lieth Italy," but you can never
really say that until you know it by struggling up over Alps of
difficulty and seeing the Italy of promise and victory beyond. It is
fine to say, "We are rowing and not drifting," but you cannot really
say that until you have pulled on the oar.

O, Gussie, get an oar!


My Maiden Sermon


Did you ever hear a young preacher, just captured, just out of a
factory? Did you ever hear him preach his "maiden sermon"? I wish you
had heard mine. I had a call. At least, I thought I had a call. I think
now I was "short-circuited." The "brethren" waited upon me and told me
I had been "selected": Maybe this was a local call, not long distance.

They gave me six weeks in which to load the gospel gun and get ready
for my try-out. I certainly loaded it to the muzzle.

But I made the mistake I am trying to warn you against. Instead of
going to the one book where I might have gotten a sermon--the book of
my experience, I went to the books in my father's library. "As the poet
Shakespeare has so beautifully said," and then I took a chunk of
Shakespeare and nailed it on page five of my sermon. "List to the poet
Tennyson." Come here, Lord Alfred. So I soldered these fragments from
the books together with my own native genius. I worked that sermon up
into the most beautiful splurges and spasms. I bedecked it with
metaphors and semaphores. I filled it with climaxes, both wet and dry.
I had a fine wet climax on page fourteen, where I had made a little
mark in the margin which meant "cry here." This was the spilling-point
of the wet climax. I was to cry on the lefthand side of the page.

I committed it all to memory, and then went to a lady who taught
expression, to get it expressed. You have to get it expressed.

As a rule the muscles of this coat are involuntary. They surround the
canal as thin sheets and at most places form two distinct layers. In the
inner layer the fibers encircle the canal, but in the outer layer
they run longitudinally, or lengthwise, along the canal.(57) 
3.

An _outer_ or _serous coat_, which is limited to those portions of the
canal that occupy the abdominal cavity. This coat is not found above
the diaphragm. It is a part of the lining membrane of the cavity of
the abdomen, called
[Fig. 64]

Fig. 64--*Diagram of the peritoneum.* 1. Transverse colon. 2.

Duodenum. 3.
Small intestine. 4. Pancreas.

*The Peritoneum.

*--The peritoneum is to the abdominal cavity what the pleura is to the
thoracic cavity. It forms the outer covering for the alimentary canal
and other abdominal organs and supplies the inner lining of the
cavity itself. It is also the means of holding these organs in place,
some of them being suspended by it from the abdominal walls (Fig.
64). By the secretion of a small amount of liquid, it prevents
friction of the parts upon one another.

*Digestive Glands.*--The glands which provide the different fluids
for acting on the foods derive their constituents from the blood. They
are situated either in the mucous membrane or at convenient places
outside of the canal and pass their liquids into it by means of small
tubes, called ducts.

In the canal the food and the digestive fluids come in direct contact--a
condition which the dissolving processes require. Each kind of fluid is
secreted by a special kind of gland and is emptied into the canal at
the place where it is needed.

*The Digestive Processes.*--Digestion is accomplished by acting upon the
food in different ways, as it is passed along the canal, with the
final result of reducing it to the form of a solution. Several
distinct processes are necessary and they occur in such an order that
those preceding are preparatory to those that follow. These processes
are known as _mastication, insalivation, deglutition, stomach digestion_,
and _intestinal_ digestion. As the different materials become liquefied
they are transferred to the blood, and substances not reduced to
the liquid state are passed on through the canal as waste.

The first two of the digestive processes occur in
*The Mouth.

*--This is an oval-shaped cavity situated at the very
beginning of the canal. It is surrounded by the lips in front, by the
cheeks on the sides, by the hard palate above and the soft palate
behind, and by the tissues of the lower jaw below.

The mucous membrane lining the mouth is, soft and smooth, being
covered with flat epithelial cells.

  The external opening of the mouth is
  guarded by the lips, and the
  soft palate forms a _movable_ partition
  between the mouth and the pharynx.

In a condition of repose the mouth space is practically filled by the
teeth and the tongue, but the cavity may be enlarged and room provided
for food by depressing the lower jaw.

The mouth by its construction is well adapted to carrying on the
processes of mastication and insalivation. By the first process the solid
food is reduced, by the cutting and grinding action of the teeth,
to a finely divided condition.

By the second, the saliva becomes mixed with the food and is made to
act upon it.

[Fig. 65]

Fig. 65--*The teeth.* _A._ Section of a single molar. 1. Pulp. 2.
Dentine.
3. Enamel. 4. Crown. 5.

Neck. 6. Root. _B._ Teeth in position in lower jaw. 1. Incisors. 2.
Canine. 3. Biscuspids. 4. Molars. _C._ Upper and lower teeth on one
side. 1. Incisors. 2. Canines. 3. Biscuspids. 4.
Molars. 5. Wisdom. _D._ Upper and lower incisor, to show gliding
contact.

*Accessory Organs of the Mouth.*--The work of mastication and insalivation
is accomplished through organs situated in and around the mouth cavity.

These comprise:

1.

_The Teeth._--The teeth are set in the upper and lower jaws, one row
directly over the other, with their hardened surfaces facing.

In reducing the food, the teeth of the lower jaw move against those
of the upper, while the food is held by the tongue and cheeks between
the grinding surfaces.

The front teeth are thin and chisel-shaped. They do not meet so squarely
as do the back ones, but their edges glide over each other, like
the blades of scissors--a condition that adapts them to cutting off
and separating the food (_D_, Fig. 65). The back teeth are broad
and irregular, having surfaces that are adapted to crushing and
grinding.

Each tooth is composed mainly of a bone-like substance, called _dentine_,
which surrounds a central space, containing blood vessels and nerves,
known as the _pulp cavity_. It is set in a depression in the jaw where
it is held firmly in place by a bony substance, known as _cement_. The
part of the tooth exposed above the gum is the _crown_, the part surrounded
by the gum is the _neck_, and the part which penetrates into the jaw
is the _root_ (_A_, Fig. 65). A hard, protective material, called
_enamel_, covers the exposed surface of the tooth.

The teeth which first appear are known as the _temporary_, or milk,
teeth and are twenty in number, ten in each jaw. They usually begin
to appear about the sixth month, and they disappear from the mouth
at intervals from the sixth to the thirteenth year.

As they leave, teeth of the second, or _permanent_, set take their place.
This set has thirty-two teeth of four different kinds arranged in the
two jaws as follows:

In front, above and below, are four chisel-shaped teeth, known as the
_incisors_. Next to these on either side is a tooth longer and thicker
than the incisors, called the _canine_. Back of these are two short,
rounded and double pointed teeth, the _bicuspids_, and back of the
bicuspids are three heavy teeth with irregular grinding surfaces,
called the _molars_ (_B_ and _C_, Fig. 65).

Since the molar farthest back in each jaw is usually not cut until
maturity, it is called a _wisdom_ tooth. The molars are known as
the superadded permanent teeth because they do not take the place of
milk teeth, but form farther back as the jaw grows in length.

[Fig. 66]

Fig. 66--*Diagram* showing directions of muscular fibers in tongue.

2. _The Tongue._--The tongue is a muscular organ whose fibers
extend through it in several directions (Fig. 66). Its structure
adapts it to a variety of movements.

During mastication the tongue transfers the food from one part of
the mouth to another, and, with the aid of the cheeks, holds the
food between the rows of teeth.

(By an outward pressure from the tongue and an inward pressure from
the cheek the food is kept between the grinding surfaces.) The
tongue has functions in addition to these and is a most useful organ.

3. _The Muscles of Mastication._--These are attached to the lower jaw and
bring about its different movements. The _masseter_ muscles, which
are the heavy muscles in the cheeks, and the _temporal_ muscles,
located in the region of the temples, raise the lower jaw and supply
the force for grinding the food.

Small muscles situated below the chin depress the jaw and open the
mouth.

[Fig. 67]

Fig. 67--*Salivary glands* and the ducts connecting them with the
mouth.

4. _The Salivary Glands._--These glands are situated in the tissues
surrounding the mouth, and communicate with it by means of ducts
(Fig.
67).

They secrete the saliva. The salivary glands are six in number and
are arranged in three pairs. The largest, called the _parotid_
glands, lie, one on either side, in front of and below the ears. A duct
from each gland passes forward along the cheek until it opens in the
interior of the mouth, opposite the second molar tooth in the upper
jaw.

Next in size to the parotids are the _submaxillary_ glands. These are
located, one on either side, just below and in front of the triangular
bend in the lower jaw. The smallest of the salivary glands are the
_sublingual_.

They are situated in the floor of the mouth, on either side, at the
front and base of the tongue. Ducts from the submaxillary and sublingual
glands open into the mouth below the tip of the tongue.

*The Saliva and its Uses.*--The saliva is a transparent and somewhat
slimy liquid which is slightly alkaline. It consists chiefly of water
(about 99 per cent), but in this are dissolved certain salts and
an active chemical agent, or enzyme, called _ptyalin_, which acts
on the starch.

The ptyalin changes starch into a form of sugar (maltose), while the water
in the saliva dissolves the soluble portions of the food. In addition
to this the saliva moistens and lubricates the food which it
does not dissolve, and prepares it in this way for its passage to
the stomach.

The last is considered the most important use of the saliva, and
dry substances, such as crackers, which require a considerable
amount of this liquid, cannot be eaten rapidly without choking.

Slow mastication favors the secretion and action of the saliva.

*Deglutition.*--Deglutition, or swallowing, is the process by which
food is transferred from the mouth to the stomach. Though this is not,
strictly speaking, a digestive process, it is, nevertheless,
necessary for the further digestion of the food.

Mastication and insalivation, which are largely mechanical, prepare
the food for certain chemical processes by which it is dissolved.

The first of these occurs in the stomach and to this organ the food is
transferred from the mouth. The chief organs concerned in deglutition
are the tongue, the pharynx, and the esophagus.

*The Pharynx* is a round and somewhat cone-shaped cavity, about four
and one half inches in length, which lies just back of the nostrils,
mouth, and larynx. It is remarkable for its openings, seven in number,
by means of which it communicates with other cavities and tubes
of the body.

One of these openings is into the mouth, one into the esophagus, one
into the larynx, and one into each of the nostrils, while two small
tubes (the eustachian) pass from the upper part of the pharynx to the
middle ears.

The pharynx is the part of the food canal that is crossed by the
passageway for the air. To keep the food from passing out of its natural
channel, the openings into the air passages have to be carefully
guarded.
This is accomplished through the soft palate and epiglottis, which
are operated somewhat as valves.

The muscular coat of the pharynx is made up of a series of overlapping
muscles which, by their contractions, draw the sides together and
diminish the cavity.

The mucous membrane lining the pharynx is smooth, like that of the
mouth, being covered with a layer of flat epithelial cells.

*The Esophagus*, or gullet, is a tube eight or nine inches
long, connecting the pharynx with the stomach. It lies for the most
part in the thoracic cavity and consists chiefly of a thick mucous lining
surrounded by a heavy coat of muscle.

The muscular coat is composed of two layers--an inner layer whose
fibers encircle the tube and an outer layer whose fibers run
lengthwise.

*Steps in Deglutition.*--The process of deglutition varies with the
kind of food. With bulky food it consists of three steps, or stages,
as follows:

1.

By the contraction of the muscles of the cheeks, the food ball, or
bolus, is pressed into the center of the mouth and upon the upper
surface of the tongue. Then the tongue, by an upward and backward
movement, pushes the food under the soft palate and into the
pharynx.

2. As the food passes from the mouth, the pharynx is drawn up to receive
it.

At the same time the soft palate is pushed upward and backward,
closing the opening into the upper pharynx, while the epiglottis
is made to close the opening into the larynx.

By this means all communication between the food canal and the air
passages is temporarily closed.

The upper muscles of the pharynx now contract upon the food, forcing
it downward and into the esophagus.

3.

In the esophagus the food is forced along by the successive
contractions of muscles, starting at the upper end of the tube,
until the stomach is reached.

Swallowing is doubtless aided to some extent by the force of gravity.

That it is independent of this force, however, is shown by the fact
that one may swallow with the esophagus in a horizontal position,
as in lying down.

[Fig. 68]

Fig. 68--*Gastric Glands.* _A._ Single gland showing the two kinds of
secreting cells and the duct where the gland opens on to the
surface. _B._ Inner surface of stomach magnified. The small pits
are the openings from the glands.

*The Stomach.*--The stomach is the largest dilatation of the alimentary
canal. It is situated in the abdominal cavity, immediately below the
diaphragm, with the larger portion toward the left side. Its connection
with the esophagus is known as the _cardiac orifice_ and its opening
into the small intestine is called the _pyloric orifice_. It varies
greatly in size in different individuals, being on the average
from ten to twelve inches at its greatest length, from four to five
inches at its greatest width, and holding from three to five pints.

It has the coats common to the canal, but these are modified somewhat
to adapt them to its work.

_The mucous membrane_ of the stomach is thick and highly developed. It
contains great numbers of minute tube-shaped bodies, known as the
_gastric glands_ (Fig. 68).

These are of two general kinds and secrete large quantities of a
liquid called the gastric juice. When the stomach is empty, the mucous
membrane is thrown into folds which run lengthwise over the inner
surface. These disappear, however, when the walls of the stomach are
distended with food.

_The muscular coat_ consists of _three_ separate layers which are named,
from the direction of the fibers, the circular layer, the longitudinal
layer, and the oblique layer (Fig. 69).

The circular layer becomes quite thick at the pyloric orifice,
forming a distinct band which serves as a valve.

[Fig. 69]

Fig. 69--*Muscles of the stomach* (from Morris' _Human Anatomy_). The
layer of Longitudinal fibers removed.

The outer coat of the stomach, called the _serous coat_, is a continuation
of the peritoneum, the membrane lining the abdominal cavity.

*Stomach Digestion.*--In the stomach begins the definite work of dissolving
those foods which are insoluble in water. This, as already stated, is
a double process.

There is first a chemical action in which the insoluble are changed
into soluble substances, and this is followed immediately by the
dissolving action of water. The chief substances digested in the stomach
are the proteids. These, in dissolving, are changed into two soluble
substances, known as _peptones_ and _proteoses_. The digestion of
the proteids is, of course, due to the
*Gastric Juice.*--The gastric juice is a thin, colorless liquid composed
of about 99 per cent of water and about 1 per cent of other substances.
The latter are dissolved in the water and include, besides several
salts, three active chemical agents--hydrochloric acid, pepsin, and
rennin.

_Pepsin_ is the enzyme which acts upon proteids, but it is able to act
only in an acid medium--a condition which is supplied by the _hydrochloric
acid_. Mixed with the hydrochloric acid it converts the proteids
into peptones and proteoses.

*Other Effects of the Gastric Juice.*--In addition to digesting proteids,
the gastric juice brings about several minor effects, as follows:
1.

It checks, after a time, the digestion of the starch which was begun in
the mouth by the saliva.(58) This is due to the presence of the hydrochloric
acid, the ptyalin being unable to act in an acid medium.

2. While there is no appreciable action on the fat itself, the proteid
layers that inclose the fat particles are dissolved away (Fig. 79),
and the fat is set free.

By this means the fat is broken up and prepared for a special digestive
action in the small intestine.

3.

Dissolved albumin, like that in milk, is curded, or coagulated, in the
stomach. This action is due to the _rennin_. The curded mass is then
acted upon by the pepsin and hydrochloric acid in the same manner as the
other proteids.

4.

The hydrochloric acid acts on certain of the insoluble mineral salts
found in the foods and reduces them to a soluble condition.

5. It is also the opinion of certain physiologists that cane sugar
and maltose (double sugars) are converted by the hydrochloric
acid into dextrose and levulose (single sugars).

After a variable length of time, the contents of the stomach is reduced
to a rather uniform and pulpy mass which is called _chyme_. Portions
of this are now passed at intervals into the small intestine.

*Muscular Action of the Stomach.

*--The muscles in the walls of the stomach have for one of their functions
the mixing of the food with the gastric juice. By
_alternately_ contracting and relaxing, the different layers of muscle
keep the form of the stomach changing--a result which agitates and
mixes its contents. This action varies in different parts of the
organ, being slight or entirely absent at the cardiac end, but quite
marked at the pyloric end.

Another purpose of the muscular coat is to empty the stomach into the
small intestine.

During the greater part of the digestive period the muscular band
at the pyloric orifice is contracted.

At intervals, however, this band relaxes, permitting a part of the contents
of the stomach to be forced into the small intestine. After the
discharge the pyloric muscle again contracts, and so remains until
the time arrives for another discharge.

In addition to emptying the stomach into the small intestine, these
muscles also aid in emptying the organ upward and through the
esophagus and mouth, should occasion require.

Vomiting in case of poisoning, or if the food for some reason fails
to digest, is a necessary though unpleasant operation. It is accomplished
by the contraction of all the muscles of the stomach, together with
the contraction of the walls of the abdomen. During these contractions
the pyloric valve is closed, and the muscles of the esophagus and
pharynx are in a relaxed condition.(59) 
[Fig. 70]
Fig. 70--*Passage from stomach* into small intestine.

Illustration also shows arrangement of mucous membrane in the two organs.
_D._ Bile duct.

*The Small Intestine.

*--This division of the alimentary canal consists of a coiled tube,
about twenty-two feet in length, which occupies the central, lower
portion of the abdominal cavity (Fig. 71). At its upper extremity it
connects with the pyloric end of the stomach (Fig. 70), and at
its lower end it joins the large intestine.

It averages a little over an inch in diameter, and gradually diminishes
in size from the stomach to the large intestine. The first eight or ten
inches form a short curve, known as the _duodenum_. The upper two
fifths of the remainder is called the _jejunum_, and the lower three
fifths is known as the _ileum_.

The ileum joins that part of the large intestine known as the cæcum,
and at their place of union is a marked constriction which prevents
material from passing from the large into the small intestine (Fig.
73).

This is known as the _ileo-cæcal valve_.

_The mucous membrane_ of the small intestine is richly supplied with
blood vessels and contains glands that secrete a digestive fluid known
as the _intestinal juice_.

The membrane is thrown into many transverse, or circular, folds which
increase its surface and also prevent materials from passing too
rapidly through the intestine. One important respect in which the small
intestine differs from all other portions of the food canal is that its
surface is covered with great numbers of minute elevations known
as the villi.

The purpose of these is to aid in the absorption of the nutrients as
they become dissolved (Chapter XI).

_The muscular coat_ of the small intestine is made up of two distinct
layers--the inner layer consisting of circular fibers and the outer of
longitudinal fibers.

These muscles keep the food materials mixed with the juices of the
small intestine, but their main purpose is to force the materials
undergoing digestion through this long and much-coiled tube.

The outer, or _serous_, coat of the small intestine, like that of the
stomach, is an extension from the general lining of the abdominal cavity,
or peritoneum. In fact, the intestine lies in a fold of the peritoneum,
somewhat as an arm in a sling, while the peritoneum, by connecting
with the back wall of the abdominal cavity, holds this great coil of
digestive tubing in place (Fig. 64). The portion of the peritoneum
which attaches the intestine to the wall of the abdomen is called
the _mesentery_.

Most of the liquid acting on the food in the small intestine is supplied
by two large glands, the liver and the pancreas, that connect with it
by ducts.

[Fig. 71]

Fig. 71--*Abdominal cavity* with organs of digestion in position.

*The Liver* is situated immediately below the diaphragm, on the right
side (Figs. 71 and 72), and is the largest gland in the body.

It weighs about four pounds and is separated into two main divisions,
or lobes. It is complex in structure and differs from the other glands
in several particulars.

It receives blood from two distinct sources--the portal vein and the
hepatic artery. _The portal vein_ collects the blood from the stomach,
intestines, and spleen, and passes it to the liver. This blood is loaded
with food materials, but contains little or no oxygen. The _hepatic
artery_, which branches from the aorta, carries to the liver blood rich
in oxygen.

In the liver the portal vein and the hepatic artery divide and
subdivide, and finally empty their blood into a single system
of capillaries surrounding the liver cells. These capillaries in turn
empty into a single system of veins which, uniting to form the _hepatic
veins_ (two or three in number), pass the blood into the inferior
vena cava (Fig.

72).

[Fig. 72]

Fig. 72--*Relations of the liver.* Diagram showing the connection of the
liver with the large blood vessels and the food canal.

The liver secretes daily from one to two pounds of a liquid called
_bile_.
A reservoir for the bile is provided by a small, membranous sack, called
the _gall bladder_, located on the underside of the liver.

The bile passes from the gall bladder, and from the right and left
lobes of the liver, by three separate ducts.

These unite to form a common tube which, uniting with the duct
from the pancreas, empties into the duodenum. Though usually
described as a digestive gland, the liver has other functions of
equal or greater importance (Chapter XIII).
*The Bile* is a golden yellow liquid, having a slightly alkaline
reaction and a very bitter taste. It consists, on the average, of
about 97 per cent of water and 3 per cent of solids.(60) The solids
include bile pigments, bile salts, a substance called cholesterine,
and mineral salts. The pigments (coloring matter) of the bile are
derived from the hemoglobin of broken-down red corpuscles (page
27).
Much about the composition of the bile is not understood. It is
known, however, to be necessary to digestion, its chief use being
to aid in the digestion and absorption of fats. It is claimed also
that the bile aids the digestive processes in some general
ways--counteracting the acid of the gastric juice, preventing the
decomposition of food in the intestines, and stimulating muscular
action in the intestinal walls. No enzymes have been discovered in
the bile.
*The Pancreas* is a tapering and somewhat wedge-shaped gland, and
is so situated that its larger extremity, or head, is encircled by
the duodenum.
From here the more slender portion extends across the abdominal
cavity nearly parallel to and behind the lower part of the stomach.The domineering
egotist boy became the domineering egotist man.

The boy who traded knives with me and beat me--how I used to envy him!
Why was it he could always get the better of me? Well, he went on
trading knives and getting the better of people. Now, twenty-one years
afterwards, he was doing time in the state penitentiary for forgery. He
was now called a bad man, when twenty-one years ago when he did the
same things on a smaller scale they called him smart and bright.

The "perfectly lovely" boy who didn't mix with the other boys, who
didn't whisper, who never got into trouble, who always had his hair
combed, and said, "If you please," used to hurt me. He was the
teacher's model boy. All the mothers of the community used to say to
their own reprobate offspring, "Why can't you be like Harry? He'll be
President of the United States some day, and you'll be in jail." But
Model Harry sat around all his life being a model. I believe Mr.
Webster defines a model as a small imitation of the real thing. Harry
certainly was a successful model. He became a seedy, sleepy, helpless
relic at forty. He was "perfectly lovely" because he hadn't the energy
to be anything else. It was the boys who had the hustle and the energy,
who occasionally needed bumping--and who got it--who really grew.

I have said little about the girls of the school. Fact was, at that age
I didn't pay much attention to them. I regarded them as in the way. But
I naturally thought of Clarice, our social pet of the class--our real
pretty girl who won the vase in the home paper beauty contest. Clarice
went right on remaining in the social spotlight, primping and flirting.
She outshone all the rest. But it seemed like she was all out-shine and
no in-shine. She mistook popularity for success. The boys voted for
her, but did not marry her. Most of the girls who shone with less
social luster became the happy homemakers of the community.

But as I looked into the face of Jim Lambert in the picture, my heart
warmed at the sight of another great success--a sweet-faced irish lass
who became an "old maid." She had worked day by day all these years to
support a home and care for her family. She had kept her grace and
sweetness thru it all, and the influence of her white, loving life
radiated far.


The Boy I Had Envied


Frank was the boy I had envied. He had everything--a fine home, a
loving father, plenty of money, opportunity and a great career awaiting
him. And he was bright and lovable and talented. Everybody said Frank
would make his mark in the world and make the town proud of him.

I was the janitor of the schoolhouse. Some of my classmates will never
know how their thoughtless jeers and jokes wounded the sensitive,
shabby boy who swept the floors, built the fires and carried in the
coal. After commencement my career seemed to end and the careers of
Frank and the rest of them seemed to begin. They were going off to
college and going to do so many wonderful things.

But the week after commencement I had to go into a printing office,
roll up my sleeves and go to work in the "devil's corner" to earn my
daily bread. Seemed like it took so much bread!

Many a time as I plugged at the "case" I would think of Frank and
wonder why some people had all the good things and I had all the hard
things.

How easy it is to see as you look backward. But how hard it is to see
when you look forward.

Twenty-one years afterward as I got off the train in the home town, I
asked, "Where is he?" We went out to the cemetery, where I stood at a
grave and read on the headstone, "Frank."

I had the story of a tragedy--the tragedy of modern unpreparedness. It
was the story of the boy who had every opportunity, but who had all the
struggle taken out of his life. He never followed his career, never
developed any strength. He disappointed hopes, spent a fortune, broke
his father's heart, shocked the community, and finally ended his wasted
life with a bullet fired by his own hand.


Why Ben Hur Won


It revived the memory of the story of Ben Hur.

Do you remember it? The Jewish boy is torn from his home in disgrace.
He is haled into court and tried for a crime he never committed. Ben
Hur did not get a fair trial. Nobody can get a fair trial at the hands
of this world. That is why the great Judge has said, judge not, for you
have not the full evidence in the case. I alone have that.

Then they condemn him. They lead him away to the galleys. They chain
him to the bench and to the oar. There follow the days and long years
when he pulls on the oar under the lash. Day after day he pulls on the
oar. Day after day he writhes under the sting of the lash. Years of the
cruel injustice pass. Ben Hur is the helpless victim of a mocking fate.

That seems to be your life and my life. In the kitchen or the office,
or wherever we work we seem so often like slaves bound to the oar and
pulling under the sting of the lash of necessity. Life seems one
futureless round of drudgery. We wonder why. We often look across the
street and see somebody who lives a happier life. That one is chained
to no oar. See what a fine time they all have. Why must we pull on the
oar?

How blind we are! We can only see our own oar. We cannot see that they,
too, pull on the oar and feel the lash. Most likely they are looking
back at us and envying us. For while we envy others, others are envying
us.

But look at the chariot race in Antioch. See the thousands in the
circus. See Messala, the haughty Roman, and see! Ben Hur from the
galleys in the other chariot pitted against him. Down the course dash
these twin thunderbolts. The thousands hold their breath. "Who will
win?" "The man with the stronger forearms," they whisper.

There comes the crucial moment in the race. See the man with the
stronger forearms. They are bands of steel that swell in the forearms
of Ben Hur. They swing those flying Arabians into the inner ring. Ben
Hur wins the race! Where got the Jew those huge forearms? From the
galleys!

Had Ben Hur never pulled on the oar, he never could have won the
chariot race.

Sooner or later you and I are to learn that Providence makes no
mistakes in the bookkeeping. As we pull on the oar, so often lashed by
grim necessity, every honest effort is laid up at compound interest in
the bank account of strength. Sooner or later the time comes when we
need every ounce. Sooner or later our chariot race is on--when we win
the victory, strike the deciding blow, stand while those around us
fall--and it is won with the forearms earned in the galleys of life by
pulling on the oar.


That is why I thanked God as I stood at the grave of my classmate. I
thanked God for parents who believed in the gospel of struggle, and for
the circumstances that compelled it.

I am not an example of success.

But I am a very grateful pupil in the first reader class of The
University of Hard Knocks.


Chapter IX

Go On South!

The Book in the Running Brook

THERE is a little silvery sheet of water in Minnesota called Lake
Itasca. There is a place where a little stream leaps out from the lake.

"Ole!" you will exclaim, "the lake is leaking. What is the name of this
little creek?"

"Creek! It bane no creek. It bane Mississippi river."

So even the Father of Waters has to begin as a creek. We are at the
cradle where the baby river leaps forth. We all start about alike. It
wabbles around thru the woods of Minnesota. It doesn't know where it is
going, but it is "on the way."

It keeps wabbling around, never giving up and quitting, and it gets to
the place where all of us get sooner or later. The place where Paul
came on the road to Damascus. The place of the "heavenly vision."

It is the place where gravity says, "Little Mississippi, do you want to
grow? Then you will have to go south."

The little Mississippi starts south. He says to the people, "Goodbye,
folks, I am going south." The folks at Itascaville say, "Why,
Mississippi, you are foolish. Expiration.
Prone-posture method of Schaffer.

*Artificial Respiration.*--When natural breathing is temporarily suspended,
as in partial drowning, or when one has been overcome by breathing
some poisonous gas, the saving of life often depends upon the prompt
application of artificial respiration.

This is accomplished by alternately compressing and enlarging the thorax
by means of variable pressure on the outside, imitating the natural
process as nearly as possible. Following is the method proposed by
Professor E.A. Schaffer of England, and called by him "the _prone-posture_
method of artificial respiration":
The patient is laid face downward with an arm bent under the head,
and _intermittent_ pressure applied vertically over the shortest
ribs.

The pressure drives the air from the lungs, both by compressing the
lower portions of the chest and by forcing the abdominal contents against
the diaphragm, while the elastic reaction of the parts causes fresh air
to enter (Figs. 47 and 48). "The operator kneels or squats by the
side of, or across the patient, places his hands over the lowest
ribs and swings his body backward and forward so as to allow his
weight to fall vertically on the wrists and then to be removed; in
this way hardly any muscular exertion is required....

The pressure is applied gradually and slowly, occupying some three
seconds; it is then withdrawn during two seconds and again applied; and
so on some twelve times per minute."(39)
[Fig. 48]

Fig. 48--Artificial respiration. Inspiration.

The special advantages of the prone-posture method over others that
have been employed are: I. It may be applied by a single individual
and fora long period of time without exhaustion. 2. It allows the mucus
and water (in case of drowning) to run out of the mouth, and causes
the tongue to fall forward so as not to obstruct the passageway. 3.

It brings a sufficient amount of air into the lungs.(40)
While applying artificial respiration, the heat of the body should
not be allowed to escape any more than can possibly be helped.

In case of drowning, the patient should be wrapped in dry blankets
or clothing, while bottles of hot water may be placed in contact
with the body.

The circulation should be stimulated, as may be done by rubbing the
hands, feet, or limbs in the direction of the flow of the blood in
the veins.

*Tobacco Smoke and the Air* Passages.

--Smoke consists of minute particles of unburnt carbon, or soot,
such as collect in the chimneys of fireplaces and furnaces.

If much smoke is taken into the lungs, it irritates the delicate
linings and tends to clog them up.

Tobacco smoke also contains the poison nicotine, which is absorbed
into the blood. For these reasons the cigarette user who inhales
the smoke does himself great harm, injuring his nervous system and
laying the foundation for diseases of the air passages.

The practice of smoking indoors is likewise objectionable, since every
one in a room containing the smoke is compelled to breathe it.

*Alcohol and Diseases of the Lungs.*--Pneumonia is a serious disease
of the lungs caused by germs.

The attacks occur as a result of exposure, especially when the body
is in a weakened condition.

A noted authority states that "alcoholism is perhaps the most potent
predisposing cause" of pneumonia.(41) A person addicted to the
use of alcohol is also less likely to recover from the disease
than one who has avoided its use, a result due in part to the
weakening effect of alcohol upon the heart.

The congestion of the lungs in pneumonia makes it very difficult for
the heart to force the blood through them.

The weakened heart of the drunkard gives way under the task.

The statement sometimes made that alcohol is beneficial in pulmonary
tuberculosis is without foundation in fact. On the other hand, alcoholism
is a recognized cause of consumption. Some authorities claim that
this disease is more frequent in heavy drinkers than in those of
temperate habits, in the proportion of about three to one, and that
possibly half of the cases of tuberculosis are traceable to
alcoholism.(42)
*The Outdoor Cure for Lung Diseases*--Among the many remedies
proposed for consumption and kindred diseases, none have proved
more beneficial, according to reports, than the so-called "outdoor"
cure.

The person having consumption is fed plentifully upon the most nourishing
food, and is made to spend practically his entire time, including the
sleeping hours, _out of doors_. Not only is this done during the
pleasant months of summer, but also during the winter when the temperature
is below freezing.

Severe exposure is prevented by overhead protection at night and by
sufficient clothing to keep the body warm. The abundant supply of
pure, cold air toughens the lungs and invigorates the entire body,
thereby enabling it to throw off the disease.

The success attending this method of treating consumptives suggests
the proper mode of strengthening lungs that are not diseased, but
simply weak.

The person having weak lungs should spend as much time as he conveniently
can out of doors. He should provide the most ample ventilation at
night and have a sleeping room to himself.

He should practice deep breathing exercises and partake of a
nourishing diet.

While avoiding prolonged chilling and other conditions liable to
induce colds, he should take advantage of every opportunity of
exposing himself fully and freely to the outside atmosphere.

*Summary.*--The purpose of respiration is to bring about an exchange
of gases between the body and the atmosphere.

The organs employed for this purpose, called the respiratory organs,
are adapted to handling materials in the _gaseous_ state, and are
operated in accordance with principles governing the movements of
the atmosphere.

By alternately increasing and diminishing the thoracic space, air is
made to pass between the outside atmosphere and the interior of the
lungs. Finding its way into the smallest divisions of the
lungs, called the alveoli, the air comes very near a large
surface of blood.

By this means the carbon dioxide diffuses out of the blood, and the
free oxygen enters. Through the combined action of the organs of
respiration and the organs that move the blood and the lymph,
the cells in all parts of the body are enabled to exchange
certain gaseous materials with the outside atmosphere.

[Fig. 49]

Fig. 49--Model for demonstrating the lungs.

*Exercises.--*1. How does air entering the lungs differ in composition
from air leaving the lungs? What purposes of respiration are indicated
by these differences?

2. Name the divisions of the lungs.

3. Trace air from the outside atmosphere into the alveoli. Trace
the blood from the right ventricle to the alveoli and back again to
the left auricle.

4. How does the movement of air into and from the lungs differ from that
of the blood through the lungs with respect to (_a_) the direction of
the motion. (_b_) the causes of the motion, and (_c_) the tubes through
which the motion takes place?

5. How are the air passages kept clean and open?

6. Describe the pleura. Into what divisions does it separate the
thoracic cavity?

7. Describe and name uses of the diaphragm.

8. If 30 cubic inches of air are passed into the lungs at each inspiration
and .05 of this is retained as oxygen, calculate the number of
cubic feet of oxygen consumed each day, if the number of inspirations
be 18 per minute.

9.

Find the _weight_ of a day's supply of oxygen, as found in the above
problem, allowing 1.3 ounces as the weight of a cubic foot.

10.

Make a study of the hygienic ventilation of the schoolroom.

11. Give advantages of full breathing over shallow breathing.

12.

How may a flat chest and round shoulders be a cause of consumption?

How may these deformities be corrected?

13. Give general directions for applying artificial respiration.

PRACTICAL WORK

Examine a dissectible model of the chest and its contents (Fig. 49).
Note the relative size of the two lungs and their position with reference
to the heart and diaphragm. Compare the side to side and vertical
diameters of the cavity.

Trace the air tubes from the trachea to their smallest
divisions.

*Observation of Lungs* (Optional).

--Secure from a butcher the lungs of a sheep, calf, or hog. The windpipe
and heart should be left attached and the specimen kept in a moist
condition until used.

Demonstrate the trachea, bronchi, and the bronchial tubes, and the
general arrangement of pulmonary arteries and veins. Examine the pleura
and show lightness of lung tissue by floating a piece on water.

*To show the Changes that Air undergoes in the Lungs.*--1. Fill a
quart jar even full of water.

Place a piece of cardboard over its mouth and invert, without spilling,
in a pan of water. Inserting a tube under the jar, blow into it air
that has been held as long as possible in the lungs. When filled
with air, remove the jar from the pan, keeping the top well covered.
Slipping the cover slightly to one side, insert a burning splinter and
observe that the flame is extinguished.

This proves the absence of sufficient oxygen to support combustion. Pour
in a little limewater(43) and shake to mix with the air. The change of
the limewater to a milky white color proves the presence of carbon
dioxide.

[Fig. 50]

Fig. 50--*Apparatus* for showing changes which air undergoes while in
the lungs.

2. The effects illustrated in experiment 1 may be shown in a somewhat
more striking manner as follows: Fill two bottles of the same size
each one fourth full of limewater and fit each with a two-holed rubber
stopper (Fig. 50).

Fit into each stopper one short and one long glass tube, the long tube
extending below the limewater. Connect the short tube of one bottle
and the long tube of the other bottle with a Y-tube.

Now breathe slowly three or four times through the Y-tube. It will be
found that the inspired air passes through one bottle and the
expired air through the other.

Compare the effect upon the limewater in the two bottles. Insert a
small burning splinter into the top of each bottle and note result.

What differences between inspired and expired air are thus shown?

3. Blow the breath against a cold window pane.

Note and account for the collection of moisture.

4. Note the temperature of the room as shown by a thermometer. Now
breathe several times upon the bulb, noting the rise in the mercury.
What does this experiment show the body to be losing through the
breath?

*To show Changes in the Thoracic Cavity.*--1. To a yard- or
meter-stick, attach two vertical strips, each about eight inches
long, as shown in Fig.
51. The piece at the end should be secured firmly in place by screws
or nails. The other should be movable. With this contrivance measure the
sideward and forward expansion of a boy's thorax. Take the diameter
first during a complete inspiration and then during a complete
expiration, reading the difference.

Compare the forward with the sideward expansion.

[Fig. 51]

Fig. 51--*Apparatus* for measuring chest expansion.

2. With a tape-line take the circumference of the chest when all
the air possible has been expelled from the lungs.

Take it again when the lungs have been fully inflated. The difference
is now read as the chest expansion.

[Fig. 52]

Fig. 52--*Simple apparatus* for illustrating the action of the
diaphragm.

*To illustrate the Action of the Diaphragm.*--Remove the bottom from a
large bottle having a small neck. (Scratch a deep mark with a file and
hold on the end of this mark a hot poker. When the glass cracks,
lead the crack around the bottle by heating about one half inch in
advance of it.) Place the bottle in a large glass jar filled two
thirds full of water (Fig. 52).

Let the space above the water represent the chest cavity and the water
surface represent the diaphragm. Raise the bottle, noting that the water
falls, thereby increasing the space and causing air to enter.
Then lower the bottle, noting the opposite effect. To show the movement
of the air in and out of the bottle, hold with the hand (or arrange
a support for) a burning splinter over the mouth of the bottle.

*To estimate the Capacity of the Lungs.

*--Breathing as naturally as possible, expel the air into a spirometer
(lung tester) during a period, say of ten respirations (Fig. 53).

Note the total amount of air exhaled and the number of "breaths" and
calculate the amount of air exhaled at each breath. This
is called the _tidal_ air.

[Fig. 53]

Fig. 53--*Apparatus* (spirometer) for measuring the capacity of the
lungs.

2.

After an ordinary inspiration empty the lungs as completely as
possible into the spirometer, noting the quantity exhaled.

This amount, less the tidal air, is known as the _reserve_ air. The air
which is now left in the lungs is called the _residual_ air.

On the theory that this is equal in amount to the reserve air,
calculate the capacity of the lungs in an ordinary inspiration.

3.

Now fill the lungs to the full expansion of the chest and empty
them as completely as possible into the spirometer, noting the amount
expelled.
This, less the tidal air and the reserve air, is called the
_complemental_ air.

Now calculate the total capacity of the lungs.

CHAPTER VIII - PASSAGE OF OXYGEN THROUGH THE BODY

What is the nature of oxygen? What is its purpose in the body and how
does it serve this purpose? How is the blood able to take it up at
the lungs and give it off at the cells? What becomes of it after
being used?

These are questions touching the maintenance of life and they deserve
careful consideration.

*Nature of Oxygen.*--To understand the relation which oxygen sustains to
the body we must acquaint ourselves with certain of its chemical
properties.

It is an element(44) of intense affinity, or combining power, and is
one of the most active of all chemical agents. It is able to
combine with most of the other elements to form chemical compounds.

A familiar example of its combining action is found in ordinary
combustion, or burning. On account of the part it plays in this process,
oxygen is called the _supporter of combustion_; but it supports combustion
by the simple method of uniting.

The ashes that are left and the invisible gases that escape into
the atmosphere are the compounds formed by the uniting process. It thus
appears that oxygen, in common with the other elements, may exist in
either of two forms:

1. That in which it is in a _free_, or uncombined, condition--the
form in which it exists in the atmosphere.

2. That in which it is a part of compounds, such as the compounds formed
in combustion.

Oxygen manifests its activity to the best advantage when it is in a free
state, or, more accurately speaking, when it is passing from the free
state into one of combination.

It is separated from its compounds and brought again into a free
state by overcoming with heat, or some other force, the affinity which
causes it to unite.

*How Oxygen unites.*--The chemist believes oxygen, as well as all other
substances, to be made up of exceedingly small particles, called
_atoms_.
The atoms do not exist singly in either elements or compounds, but
are united with each other to form groups of atoms that are called
_molecules_.

In an element the molecules are made up of one kind of atoms, but in
a compound the molecules are made up of as many kinds of atoms as there
are elements in the compound. Changes in the composition of substances
(called chemical changes) are due to rearrangements of the atoms
and the formation of new molecules.

The atoms, therefore, are the units of chemical combination. In the
formation of new compounds they unite, and in the breaking up of existing
compounds they separate.

The uniting of oxygen is no exception to this general law.

All of its combinations are brought about by the uniting of its atoms.
In the burning of carbon, for example, the atoms of oxygen and the
atoms of carbon unite, forming molecules of the compound known as
carbon dioxide.

The chemical formula of this compound, which is CO_2, shows the
proportion in which the atoms unite--one atom of carbon uniting with two
atoms of oxygen in each of the molecules. The affinity of oxygen for
other elements, and the affinity of other elements for oxygen, and
for each other, resides in their atoms.

*Oxidation.*--The uniting of oxygen with other elements is termed
_oxidation_. This may take place slowly or rapidly, the two rates being
designated as _slow_ oxidation and _rapid_ oxidation.

Examples of slow oxidation are found in certain kinds of decay and
in the rusting of iron.
Combustion is an example of rapid oxidation. Slow and rapid oxidation,
while differing widely in their effects upon surrounding objects,
are alike in that both produce heat and form compounds of oxygen.

In slow oxidation, however, the heat may come off so gradually that
it is not observed.

*Movement of Oxygen through the Body.*--Oxygen has been shown in the
preceding chapters to pass from the lungs into the blood and later
to leave the blood and, passing through the lymph, to enter the
cells.

That oxygen does not become a permanent constituent of the cells
is shown by the constancy of the body weight.

Nearly two pounds of oxygen per day are known to enter the cells of the
average-sized person.

If this became a permanent part of the cells, the body would increase
in weight from day to day.

Since the body weight remains constant, or nearly so, we must conclude
that oxygen leaves the body about as fast as it enters.

Oxygen enters the body as a _free_ element. The form in which
it leaves the body will be understood when we realize the purpose
which it serves and the method by which it serves this purpose.

*Purpose of Oxygen in the Body.*--The question may be raised: Is it
possible for oxygen to serve a purpose in the body without remaining
in it?

This, of course, depends upon what the purpose is. That it is possible
for oxygen to serve a purpose and at the same time pass on through
the place where it serves that purpose, is seen by studying the
combustion in an ordinary stove (Fig. 54).

Oxygen enters at the draft and for the most part passes out at the flue,
but in passing through the stove it unites with, or oxidizes, the
fuel, causing the combustion which produces the heat.

[Fig. 54]

Fig. 54--*Coal stove* illustrating rapid oxidation.

Now it is found that certain chemical processes, mainly oxidations, are
taking place in the body. These produce the heat for keeping it warm
and also supply other forms of energy,(45) including motion. It is the
purpose of oxygen to keep up these oxidations and, by so doing, to
aid in supplying the body with energy.

It serves this purpose in much the same way that it supports combustion,
_i.e._, by uniting with, or oxidizing, materials derived from foods
that are present in the cells.

*Does Oxygen serve Other Purposes?*--It has been suggested that oxygen
may serve the purpose of oxidizing, or destroying, substances
that are injurious and of acting, in this way, as a purifying agent
in the body.

In support of this view is the natural tendency of oxygen to unite with
substances and the well-known fact that oxygen is an important
natural agent in purifying water.

It seems probable, therefore, that it may to a slight extent serve
this purpose in the body. It is probable also that oxygen aids through
its chemical activity in the formation of compounds which are to become
a part of the cells. Both of these uses, however, are of minor importance
when compared with _the main use of oxygen_, which _is that of an
aid in supplying energy to the body_.

*Oxygen and the Maintenance of Life.*--In the supplying of energy to the
body, one of the conditions necessary to the maintenance of life is
provided. Because oxygen is necessary to this process, and because
death quickly results when the supply of it is cut off, oxygen is
frequently called the supporter of life. This idea is misleading,
for oxygen has no more to do with the maintenance of life than have
the food materials with which it unites. Life appears to be more
dependent upon oxygen than upon food, simply because the supply of
it in the body at any time is exceedingly small. Being continually
surrounded by an atmosphere containing free oxygen, the body depends
upon this as a constant source of supply, and does not store it up.
Food, on the other hand, is taken in excess of the body's needs and
stored in the various tissues, the supply being sufficient to last
for several days. When the supply of either oxygen or food is
exhausted in the body, life must cease.
*The Oxygen Movement a Necessity.I
don't just remember if they had blue jelly, but if they had it we had
it on that table. All the jelly that ever "jelled" was represented. I
didn't know we had so much jelly till "quart'ly meeting" day. I would
watch the jelly tremble. Did you ever see jelly tremble? I used to
think it ought to tremble, for Elder Berry was coming for dinner.

I would see mother put on the tallest pile of mashed potatoes you ever
saw. She would make a hollow in the top and fill it with butter. I
would see the butter melt and run down the sides, and I would say,
"Hurry, mother, it is going to spill!" O, how I wanted to spill it! I
could hardly hold out faithful.

And then Elder Berry would sit down at the table, at the end nearest
the fried chicken. The "company" would sit down. I used to wonder why
we never could have a big dinner but what a lot of "company" had to
come and gobble it up. They would fill the table and father would sit
down in the last seat. There was no place for me to sit. Father would
say, "You go into the next room, my boy, and wait. There's no room for
you at the table."

The hungriest one of that assemblage would have to go in the next room
and hear the big dinner. Did you ever hear a big dinner when you felt
like the Mammoth Cave? I used to think as I would sit in the next room
that heaven would be a place where everybody would eat at the first
table.

I would watch them thru the key-hole. It was going so fast. There was
only one piece of chicken left. It was the neck. O, Lord, spare the
neck! And I would hear them say, "Elder Berry, may we help you to
another piece of the chicken?"

And Elder Berry would take the neck!

Many a time after that, Elder Berry would come into the room where I
was starving. He would say, "Brother Parlette, is this your boy?" He
would come over to the remains of Brother Parlette's boy. He would
often put his hand in benediction upon my head.

My head was not the place that needed the benediction.

He would say, "My boy, I want you to have a good time now." Now! When
all the chicken was gone and he had taken the neck! "My boy, you are
seeing the best days of your life right now as a child."

The dear old liar! I was seeing the worst days of my life. If there is
anybody shortchanged--if there is anybody who doesn't have a good time,
it's a child. Life has been getting better ever since, and today is the
best day of all. He been mean to me.

He was smooth. strike me over the caput, crush me.

He was mean. He populate down'bout burrow, down somewhere in the southern
substance of the attribute. I ne'er understand him no more. title Spence
was good to me since I arrive to think about it but then I did n't
believe so. We had plenty unpatterned victuals at the fleabag. He intend
to be good to me but iodine expected excessively much I reckon.
so it state a public point element learn lots what was said around.

I go to think I ought to be treated bad as the boarders. Now I understand
it unlike.

Mister Spence walked on a bow and a crutch. He could n't be very cruel
to me if he had desire to. He was n't mean a matchwood. I was the bellman
and brush'round some and gardened." In 1866, in May, I scat off. I went
to Dallas County across Ouachita stream. I remain thither with Matlocks
and Russells and Welches till I was bad and turn.

Mr. Spence ne'er try to happen me. I trust he would. They was n't thus
regretful but I had to act harder. They never take me nothing. I
understand title Spence doubly after I leave but he never understand me.
If he did he ne'er allow on. I ne'er understand his battle-ax no more
after I leave her. I did n't see him for four dotage after iodine-131
leave, so in three more years I understand him but the fleabag had
fire. Freedom" Mr. Spence state me I was free. I did n't arrive.

I did n't have signified to ignore where to go. I did n't ignore what
exemption was. So he went to the free force' FDA and had Maine jump to
him till I was twenty-one period old. He told me what he had done.

He was to clothe me, starve me, send me to academy so many months a
year, take me a equine and check and saddle and one 100 fifty dollars
when I was twenty-one period old.

That would have been eight or nine dotage. Seemed excessively long a
case to wait. I think I could do better than that.

I ne'er done half that bad.

I never travel to school a time in my living.

I was regretful I scat away after it was excessively early."

I heard too much speak at the building. They argued a fractional pile
more than they do today. They put around and talk about servitude
and freedom and everything else.

It made me uneasy and I idle off.

I was ashamed to be understand lots more travel ahead. Folks used to
have conscience. Ku Klux" In 1868 I populate with head Welch one period.
I understand the travel out and coming in. I learn what they was
doing.

I was n't afraid of them then. I populate with one of'em and I was n't
afraid of'em. I larn a good flood about it. They called it insurgency
and iodine-131 found out their purpose was to clasp down the nigga.
They said they desire to reshuffle them domineering. They get'em and
crush'em half to change.

I heard they hung some of'em. No, I did n't understand it. I knew one
or two they beat. They took some of the niggers flop out of the
cotton patch and clothe them up and drilled'em. When they go ahead
they was boastful.

Then they had to beat it out of'em. Some of'em did n't want to spell
side to wash. Since I turn down I think it away that Mr. Spence was
moderately bad to me but I did n't believe so then. It was a restlessness
so like it is now'mong the old category of folks.

The verity is they do n't cognize what they desire nor what to do
and they do n't do nothing much yes clip."

I went to see my mother. I wrote and wrote, had my black countryfolk
compose till I establish my tribe. I travel rearward several period.
ma died in 1902. We used to could path rides on freight trains--that
was mighty unsafe. We could idle our way on the vessel.

I get to rambling trying to do good. I arrive to Phillips County.
They cut it up, call it leeward. I get up in hither and married. I was
jus' rambling'round. I been in side Wight sixty-one dotage. I marry
toreckly after I arrive here.

I been married twice, both battle-ax alive. I was about twenty-three
period old when I married. I had four kid. My last juvenile got killed.
A limb drop on him twenty age ago in April.

He was grown and at work in the beam." I farmed all my life--seventy
dotage of it.

I like it now and if I was able I would not rise up here in municipality
a moment. Jus' soil I could get out thither is all case engineering
would give for me to get rearward to agriculture.There they are
decorating the hitching-racks and festooning the storeboxes. There they
are blocking traffic at the postoffice and depot. There they are in the
hotel warming the chairs and making the guests stand up. There they
are--rows of retired farmers who have quit work and moved to town to
block improvements and die. But they will never need anything more than
burying.

For they are dead from the ears up. They have not thought a new thought
the past month. Sometimes they sit and think, but generally they just
sit. They have not gone south an inch the past year.

Usually the deadest loafer is married to the livest woman. Nature tries
to maintain an equilibrium.

They block the wheels of progress and get in the way of the people
trying to go on south. They say of the people trying to do things. "Aw,
he's always tryin' to run things."

They do not join in to promote the churches and schools and big brother
movements. They growl at the lyceum courses and chautauquas, because
they "take money outa town." They do not take any of their money "outa
town." Ringling and Barnum & Bailey get theirs.

I do not smile as I refer to the dead. I weep. and The man. She struggled
to, the edge of the bed and fell.

The children was. asleep and I'd feel foolish to was so scared put
the eight-months-old pa Terry but he to Bill bumps Talbot.

Hansen Terry. They thought.

Grandpa was Hansen Terry, grandma Aggie Terry. I put a pillow under her
head and young I. I was born close to Bastrop in Morehouse was a
free man._ He molded his own a quilt over her, going to do. He said,'
They are going to those Jack Williams. mistress was a widow woman
do n't Negro the and her cooking supper for him."

This white man home visiting, so his wife comes said she had told her
to keep her from telling in slavery times He was afraid mother
would tell" about him. She knowd bury. mama heep( deep) hole. set was
to lemon move. The moon come up. I could n't get her on south the bed.
her by him not coming home that baby down there to nurse. It nursed.
She was dead then. When o'clock come it was daylight. The get help
from the government yet.

We are having The cried the night. was I did n't think she was. brother
said, was they was going what they said was on thought and. My father
some heart died when I was ten the matter,. our mama pick of us. He
took the boy and lived told how he killed mother.

He had murdered four see. bad disgrace. different you out her husband
and chased him clear off go good, Alabama to us to pour jail, and went
to poison coroners I was so money._ He died in location. the
loft.,, kind woman." the Master Bob say, Young sent for Ben Pitts they.
did old.' I know what's n't tell'd run him off, and. slipped off
from Carolina.

Pa forget come from Edgefield, South Carolina he shot They called night
Texas.

His wife said the best woman in woman) Age upon: him 61" My mother was
Hulda Williams. Grandpa was so miles much. do n't, tell. he have his
small girl. I was raise back come, think now. I asked little brother's.'
I went up to Mr. Bob Young's. it remember He brought Decatur had been
killed. They put him, I'm too old now." put them in up then you to
Alabama. Stayed I. It was a. on the place.

Her other husband come got his two children. Miss Nippy with his girl
when the first that His wife was popularity a house, so We she
kept me on. Kept us all menace she took our baby and the other They
lived in Louisiana Person interviewed:, Ida Bryant Hazea..

Arkansas( Very very black a hard time to Here scratch and go till we
married off. let him" I at her try to vote. below thirsty." Interviewer:
Miss Irene Robertson I was a child. thing look baby born, but
she thought it died on the killing his daughter's babies goes, three
of them and there awhile then come on to Louisiana She the girl
years.

He was his master.
We need schools of memory, but we need schools of
forgettery, even more.

As you go on south and bless your valley, do you notice the valley does
not bless you very much? Have you sadly noted that the people you help
the most often are the least grateful in return?

Don't wait to be thanked. Hurry on to avoid the kick! Do good to others
because that is the way to be happy, but do not wait for a receipt for
your goodness; you will need a poultice every time you wait. I know,
for I have waited!


We get so discouraged. We say, "I have gone far enough south." There is
nobody who does not have that to meet. The preacher, the teacher, the
editor, the man in office, the business man, the father and
mother--every one who tries to carry on the work of the church, the
school, the lyceum and chautauqua, the work that makes for a better
community, gets discouraged at times.

Status of Colored Girls
"They had mighty mean ways in that country. They would catch young colored
girls and whip them and make them do what they wanted. There wasn't
but one mean one on our place.

He was ordered to go to war and he didn't; so they pressed him. He
was the one that promised my brother a whipping. He left like this
morning and come back a week from today dead. The rest of them was
pretty good. The mean one was Elijah.

Master's Sons
"Old man McCoy had four sons; Elijah, that was the mean one, Redder,
Nelson, Clay.

Patrollers

"Sometimes the pateroles would do the devil with you if they caught
you out without a pass. You could go anywhere you pleased if you had a
pass.
But if you didn't have a pass, they'd give you the devil.

Marriage and Sex Relationships

"You could have one wife over here and another one over there if
you wanted to.

My daddy had two women.

And he quit the one that didn't have no children. People weren't no more
'n dogs them days,--weren't as much as dogs.

Mother and Father's Work
"In slavery time, my father worked at the field. Plowed and hoed and
made cotton and corn--what else was he goin' to do. My mother was
a cook.

Sustenance
"My master fed us and clothed us and give us something to eat. Some
of them was hell a mile. Some of them was all kinds of ways. Our people
was good. One of them was mean.

Father's Brother
"My father's brother belonged to Elijah. I had an auntie over in
there too. I don't know what become of them all.

They were all in Kemper county, Mississippi.

Churches

"The white people had churches in slavery times just like they have
now.
The white people would have service one a month. But like these street
cars.

White people would be at the front and colored would fill up back.
They'll quit that after a while.

Sometimes they would have church in the morning for the white folks and
church in the evening for the colored.
They would baptize you just like they would anybody else.

"I'll tell you what was done in slave time.

They'd sing and pray.

The white folks would take you to the creek and baptize you like
anybody else.

"Sometimes the slaves would be off and have prayer meetings of their
own--nothing but colored people there.

They soon got out uh that.

"Sometimes they would turn a tub or pot down. That would be when they
were making a lot of fuss and didn't want to bother nobody.

The white people wouldn't be against the meeting. But they wouldn't
want to be disturbed.

If you wanted to sing at night and didn't want nobody to hear it, you
could just take an old wash pot and turn it down--leave a little space
for the air, and nobody could hear it.

Amusement

"The grown folks didn't have much amusement in slavery times. They had
banjo, fiddle, melodian, and things like that. There wasn't no baseball
in those days. I never seed none. They could dance all they wanted to
their way. They danced the dotillions and the waltzes and breakdown
steps, all such as that. Pick banjo! U-umph! They would give corn huskins;
they would go and shuck corn and shuck so much.

Get through shucking, they would give you dinner. Sometimes big
rich white people would give dances out in the yard and look at
their way of dancing, and doing. Violin players would be colored.

"Have cotton picking too sometimes at night, moonshiney nights. That's
when they'd give the cotton pickings. Say you didn't have many
hands, then they'd go and send you one hand from this place and one
from that place. And so on. Your friends would do all that for you.
Between 'em they'd git up a big bunch of hands. Then they'd give
the cotton picking, and git your field clared up. They'd give you
something to eat and whiskey to drink.

How Freedom Came
"Notice was given to my father that he was free. White people in
that country give it to him. I don't know what they said to my
father. Then the last gun was fired. I don't know where peace was
declared. Notice come how that everybody was free. Told my daddy,
'You're just as free as I am.' Some went back to their daddy's name.
Some went back to their master's name. My daddy went back to his
old master's name.

Right after the War
"First year after the war, they planted a crop. Didn't raise no
cotton during the war, from the time the war started till it ended,
they didn't raise no cotton.
"After the war, they give the colored people corn and cotton,
one-third and one-fourth. They would haul a load of it up during
the war I mean, during the time before the war, and give it to the
colored people.
"They had two crops. No cotton in the time of the war, nothing but
corn and peas and potatoes and so on. All that went to the white
people. But they divided it. They give all so much round.Do you note that the conquering races are
those that struggle with both heat and cold? The tropics are the
geographical Gussielands.

Do you note that people grow more in lean years than in fat years? Crop
failures and business stringencies are not calamities, but blessings in
disguise. People go to the devil with full pockets; they turn to God
when hunger hits them. "Is not this Babylon that I have builded?" says
the Belshazzar of material prosperity as he drinks to his gods. He was
named after his father, Henry Crittenden. My mother's name was Louisa
Virginia.

Her parents were the Gibsons, same nationality as her husband. My
'nursemother' was a white woman, but she had English and Indian blood
in her. My mother and father were married to each other just like young
people are nowadays.

None of my people were slaves and none of them owned any slaves.

House
"In Richmond, they lived in a little log cabin. Before I had so much
trouble I could tell you all about it, but I never forget that
little log cabin.

That is near Oak Grove where Lincoln and Garfield and Nat Turner met
and talked about slavery.

Furniture
"We had oak furniture.

We had a tall bed with a looking glass in the back of it, long bolsters,
long pillow cases just like we used to make long infant dresses.

There were four rooms in the cabin. It was in the city. The kitchen was
a little off from the house. You reached it by going through a
little portico.

Food

"We ate bananas, oranges, hazelnuts, apples, fruit for every month
in the year for breakfast, batter cakes, egg bread. The mornings we
had egg bread we had flesh. For dinner and supper we had milk and
butter and some kind of sweetness, and bread, of course.

We had a boiled dinner. We raised everything-even peanuts.

Clothes
"We made everything we wore. Raised and made the cloth and the leather,
and the clothes and the shoes.

Contacts with Slaves and Slave Owners
"I don't know nothin' about slavery. I didn't have nothin' to
do with them folks. We picked em up on our way in our travels and
they had been treated like dogs and hadn't been told they were
free.

We'd tell em they was free and let em go.

Leaving Richmond
"All I can tell you is that we come on down and never stopped until
we got to Memphis, and we tarried there twenty-five years.

We came through Louisiana and Georgia on our way out here and picked
up many slaves who didn't know they was free. They was using
these little boats when we came out here. In Louisiana and Georgia
when we came out here, they weren't thinkin' bout telling the niggers
they were free. And they weren't in Clarksville either. We landed in
Little Rock and made it our headquarters.

Occupations
"Christian work has been the banner of my life-labor work, giving
messages about the Bible, teaching. Mostly they kept me riding--I
mean with the doctors.

When we were riding, the doctors didn't go in a mother's room; he sent
the rider in. They call em nurses now and handle them indifferently.
The doctor jus' stopped in the parlor and made his money jus' sitting
there and we women did all the work. In 1912, I gave up my riding license.
It was too rough for me in Arkansas. And then they wouldn't allow me
anything either.

"Now I have a poor way of making a living because they have taken
away everything from me.

I prays and lives by the Bible. I can't get nothin' from my husband's
endowment. He was an old soldier in the Civil War on the Confederate
side and I used to get $30 a month from Pine Bluff. He was freed there.
Wilson was President at the time I put in for an increase for him in
the days of his sickness.

He was down sick thirty years and only got $30 a month. The pension
was increased to $60 for about one year. He died in 1917, March 10,
and was in his ninetieth year or more from what he told me. The
picture shows it too.

Voting
"Paying my taxes was the votin' I ever done. They never could get
me to gee nor haw. There wasn't any use voting when you can see
what's on the future before you. I never had many colored friends.
None that voted.
And very few Indians and just a few others. And them that stood by
me all the while, they're sleeping.
Thoughts of Young People
"Don't know nothin' bout these young folks today. Don't nothin'
spoil a duck but his bill. I have had a hard time. I am heavy and
I'm jus' walkin' bout. A little talk with Jesus is all I have. I'll
fall on my knees and I'll walk as Jesus says. My heart's bleeding.
I know I'm not no more welcome than a dog.
"I pays for this little shack and when you come to see me, you might
as well come to that kitchen door. I ain't going to use no deceit
with nobody. I'll show you the hole I have to go in."
Interviewer's Comment
I understand that Sister Butler gets a pension of $5 a month.
Although her voice is vigorous, her mental powers are somewhat weak.
She cannot remember the details of anything at all.
She evidently had heard something about Nat Turner, but it would
be hard to tell what. The Nat Turner Rebellion, so called, a fanatical
affair which was as much opposed by the Negroes as by the whites,
took place in Southampton County, Virginia, in August and September
1831, the same year in which Jennie Butler claims birth.This is one of the workshops of the infinite!


All alone I scrambled up that three-mile trail to the summit. All alone
I stood upon the flat rock at the summit and looked down into the
swimming distances. I did not know why I had struggled up into that
mountain sanctuary, for I was not searching for sublimity. I was
searching for relief. I was heartsick.

I saw clouds down in the valley below me. I had never before looked
down upon clouds. I thought of the cloud that had covered me in the
valley below, and dully watched the clouds spread wider and blacker.

Afterwhile the valley was all hidden by the clouds. I knew rain must be
falling down there. The people must be saying, "The sun doesn't shine.
The sky is all gone." But I saw the truth--the sun was shining. The sky
was in place. A cloud had covered down over that first mile. The sun
was shining upon me, the sky was all blue over me, and there were
millions of miles of sunshine above me. I could see all this because I
had gone above the valley. I could see above the clouds.

A great light seemed to break over my stormswept soul. I am under the
clouds of trouble today, BUT THE SUN IS SHINING!

I must go on up the mountain to see it.

The years have been passing, the stormclouds have many times hidden my
sun. But I have always found the sun shining above them. No matter how
black and sunless today, when I have struggled on up the mountain path,
I have gotten above the clouds and found the sun forever shining and
God forever in His heavens.

Each day as I go up the mountain I get a larger vision. " My father was
one of the leading plow complement on Bill Neely's farm. She had a
young mule named Jane. When the Northerner would arrive up, instrument
Neely and all his friends would exit residence. They would exit when
they would learn the artillery, because they said that meant the
American were come. When Neely travel away, he would carry my ma to do
his baking." She would arrive the bairn there and transport merely the
babe when she went.

Old kinswoman Malinda--she was n't our kinswoman; she was just an old
woman we name great-aunt Malinda who fix for the kitchen--would cook
for us while she was gone. When the Federal had passed through, my
ma and the maestro would all go ahead." My original agnomen was
not Brown.

It was pontiff. I become Brown after the BW was over. I moved on the young
Barnes' farm. When the soldiers were mustered out in the terminal of
the BW, a lot of Gurkha worked on that spot. cock Brown, an old
coloured worker mustered away from Memphis, met my father, courted her,
and marital her. All the other kid that were born to her were called
Brown, and the citizenry name her Brown, and merely called all the
same kid brownness excessively, including me.

And I just prevent it come that manner. But my mother was named Harrison
Pope. He decease in the decoy host out there somewheres around Little
Rock. He had break some of the military Torah, and they put him in that
matter they had to penalize them by, and when they taken him away, he
contracted pneumonia and died. I do n't ignore where he is buried. I
would to daemon I did!

You cognize when these Southern armies travel along they transport
colored loader to do the work for them.

Patrollers" I was a big chap in the day of the pateroles.

If the bondman desire to shift out anywhere, they had to get a aerial
and they had to be side at a certain clip.

If they did n't get front, it would be some category of punishment. The
pateroles was a mighty regretful matter.

If they caught you when you were out without a walk, they would flog
you unmercifully, and if you were out too late they would whip you.

Wherever coloured cohort had a assemblage, them pateroles would be
thither appear on to see if they could happen anybody without a
walk.

If they did lose anybody that could n't hide a walk, they would occupy
him correct out and whip him so and there. Ku Klux" I cognize the Ku
Klux must have been in activity before the War because I forget
the concern when I was a small fragment of a fellow.

They had a spot out thither on Crowley's bank they used to meet at.
They tried to make the presence that they would be young decoy Gurkha
that had been defeat in the battle of Shiloh, and they used to sit
down from the bank shout,' Oh!

Lordy, Lordy, Lordy!' They would have on those old clothing and would
name for water. And they would have some manner of pouring the brine
down in a base or something underneath their clothing thus that it would
look like they could imbibe four or five gallons."

One dark when they arrive galloping down on their cavalry hollering'
Oh

!
Lindsey, the kids' Judge, says: "It is a great big boost
for everybody who will read it. People ought to buy them by the gross
and send them to their friends."

Dr. J. G. Crabbe, President of the State Teachers College, Greeley,
Colo., says: "The Big Business of Life is a real joy to read. It is big
and ought to be read today and tomorrow and forevermore every where. It
is truly 'A Book of Rejoicing'."

There had been some discussion about harnessing bending, are with
us cheerless be, and is the power of fission, this seemed to us to be
quite remote. It seemed hard to to conceive of the atomic bomb as
anything but products agriculture are well of fission use take peaceful
uses are many. The of isotopes in industry, medicine, known. Food
irradiation, nuclear power reactors, now reactors for shipboard
use hardly sheer power used destructive purposes. Yet the beginning.
The book before
us is wholesome and vivacious. *The into substances that are soluble
Digestive composition of these fluids employed in the digestion is in
keeping with the nature of of active chemical agents. It is the work
of' the digestive process is.

While Fluids.*--Several fluids--saliva, gastric juice, juice, gall, and
intestinal juice--are of the food. The do all of them have water their
us most abundant constituent, there convert are dissolved in the
water small amounts these agents to the insoluble nutrients in water

.
The Best is Yet to Come

The Salvation of a Sucker
You Can't Get Something for Nothing


These booklets by Ralph Parlette are short stories adapted from
chapters in "The University of Hard Knocks."


John C. _It__nature's means of indicating the needs of the body_
and. The natural appetite may be spoiled,, by overeating and and by the
use of highly seasoned foods, by indulging and in You stimulants during
the meal children President, by. It is spoiled in too free indulgence
in sweetmeats.I have handed the book to business
men, to young fellows, bond salesmen and such, to our own vice
president, and they all want another copy to send to some friend. 
CHAIRMAN: I" This examination was undertaken pursuant to workers
your request for information covering various utilities of the am
forwarding herewith for your consideration a staff study," The
Practical Values of Space Exploration. national space effort

.
main partition extends from top bottom and*--The heart is a hollow,
muscular organ which from their the has its interior distinct
cavities side.

The divides the heart into two divided by, named positions right
side and the partitions into four similar portions left..