Produced by Joseph R. Hauser and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: In Celestial realms where knowledge hath no end.
  HARRY HOWARD,
  STUDENT.
  "Blessed are the pure in heart."]


POEMS

BY

HATTIE HOWARD.

AUTHOR OF "POVERTY VS. PAUPERISM," "OUR GIRLS," "VIVE LA
REPUBLIQUE," "KEEPING A SECRET," "LITTLE JO,"
AND OTHER STORIES.

VOL. IV.


  Happy whoever writes a book
  On which the world shall kindly look,
  And who, when many a year has flown--
  The volume worn, the author gone--
  Revere, admire, and still read on.


HARTFORD PRESS:
THE CASE, LOCKWOOD & BRAINARD COMPANY.
1904.


EXTRACTS FROM PRESS NOTICES OF A FORMER VOLUME.

     "We find these poems of sentiment by Hattie Howard entirely
     natural, spontaneous, direct, rhythmical, and free from ambitious
     pretense. Many of the fanciful verses have a laugh at the end; and
     the collection has altogether a sunny, hopeful spirit and will be
     welcome in this time of generally morbid expression."

     "This author's verse shows a hearty, wholesome, _human_ spirit,
     sometimes overflowing into downright fun, and a straightforward
     directness always. It is a pleasant book, sure to be welcomed by
     all."

     "These garnered gems reveal a genuine poetic faculty, and are
     worthy their attractive setting. We give the book a hearty
     welcome."

     "Many of the poems abound in playful humor or tender touches of
     sympathy which appeal to a refined feeling, and love for the good,
     the true, and the beautiful."

     "This poet's ear is so attuned to metric harmony that she must have
     been born within sound of some osier-fringed brook leaping and
     hurrying over its pebbly bed. There is a variety of subject and
     treatment, sufficient for all tastes, and these are poems which
     should be cherished."

     "Lovers of good poetry will herald with pleasure this new and
     attractive volume by the well-known authoress of Hartford. A wooing
     sentiment and genial spirit seem to guide her in every train of
     thought. Her book has received, and deserves, warm commendations of
     the press."

Copyright, 1904, BY HATTIE HOWARD.


Contents.

_FRONTISPIECE._
                                 PAGE.

  EXTRACTS FROM PRESS NOTICES,       2

  "THE SALT OF THE EARTH,"           7

  NOT GONE,                          9

  LET US GIVE THANKS,               10

  SONNET,                           11

  A RAINY DAY,                      12

  THE SUBWAY,                       16

  THE APPLE TREE,                   18

  TWO ROSES,                        21

  THE TAXIDERMIST,                  23

  EPITHALAMIUM,                     25

  A FOWL AFFAIR,                    28

  HOLIDAY HOME,                     31

  RUTHA,                            34

  THE STUDENT GONE,                 36

  THE TOURIST,                      38

  THE ANTIQUARIAN,                  40

  POOR HOUSEKEEPING,                45

  GOING TO TOBOG,                   47

  "PASSER LE TEMPS,"                49

  THE TORPEDO,                      50

  MARGARET,                         51

  CHRISTMAS BELLS,                  53

  BY THE SEA,                       54

  A SONG,                           55

  IS IT APRIL?                      56

  CHRISTMAS-TIDE,                   57

  JANUARY, 1885,                    59

  SWEET PEAS,                       61

  THE SUMMER HOUSE,                 62

  TO DIE IN AUTUMN,                 65

  APPLE BLOSSOMS,                   67

  WITHOUT A MINISTER,               68

  INDIAN SUMMER,                    70

  AUTUMN-TIME,                      72

  THE BEAUTY OF NATURE,             74

  "ALL THE RAGE,"                   76

  MY MOTHER'S HAND,                 79

  A LEAP YEAR EPISODE,              80

  IF,                               83

  PERFECT CHARACTER,                84

  THE MIRACLE OF SPRING,            85

  BERMUDA,                          86

  THE CHARTER OAK,                  88

  BLOSSOM-TIME,                     90

  "ONE OF THE LEAST OF THESE,"      92

  LIGHTNING-BUGS,                   94

  OF HER WHO DIED,                  96

  THANKSGIVING,                     98

  RECEIVING SIGHT,                 100

  REVENGE,                         102

  ON THE COMMON,                   104

  WOMAN'S HELP,                    106

  TOBOGGANING,                     108

  THE WOODS,                       110

  LIKE SUMMER,                     112

  SHERIDAN'S LAST RIDE,            114

  A BIT OF GLADNESS,               116

  THE CHARITY BALL,                118

  THE BELL(E) OF BALTIMORE,        120

  CHRISTMAS AT CHURCH,             122

  MYSTERIOUS,                      124

  "BE NOT ANXIOUS,"                126

  MOUNT VERNON,                    128

  A PRISONER,                      130

  CUBA,                            131

  THE SANGAMON RIVER,              133

  SYRINGAS,                        135

  STORM-BOUND,                     137

  THE MASTER OF THE GRANGE,        139

  A FRIEND INDEED,                 142

  THE NEEDED ONE,                  143

  "THY WILL BE DONE,"              145

  SNOWFLAKES,                      147

  MONADNOCK,                       149

  NEVER HAD A CHANCE,              151

  SORROW AND JOY,                  153

  WATCH HILL,                      155

  SUPPLICATING,                    157

  "HONEST JOHN,"                   159

  BUSHNELL PARK,                   161

  AT GENERAL GRANT'S TOMB,         164

  "BE COURTEOUS,"                  166

  A NEW SUIT,                      168

  THE LITTLE CLOCK,                170

  IMPROVEMENT,                     173

  ON BANCROFT HEIGHT,              175

  A REFORMER,                      178


Poems.


"The Salt of the Earth."


    The salt of the earth--what a meaningful phrase
    From the lips of the Saviour, and one that conveys
    A sense of the need of a substance saline
    This pestilent sphere to refresh and refine,
    And a healthful and happy condition secure
    By making it pure as the ocean is pure.

    In all the nomenclature known to the race,
    In all appellations of people or place,
    Was ever a name so befitting, so true
    Of those who are seeking the wrong to undo,
    With naught of the Pharisee's arrogant air
    Their badge of discipleship humbly who wear?

    Do beings, forsooth, fashioned out of the mold,
    So secretly, strangely, those elements hold
    That may be developed in goodness and grace
    To shine in demeanor, in form and in face
    Till they, by renewal of heavenly birth,
    Shall merit their title--the salt of the earth?

    To the landsman at home or the sailor at sea,
    With nausea, scurvy, or canker maybe,
    'Tis never in language to overexalt
    The potent preservative virtue of salt--
    A crystal commodity wholesome and good,
    A cure for disease, and a savor for food.

    Ah, the beasts of the wood and the fowls of the air
    Know all of the need of this condiment rare,
    Know well where the springs and the "salt-licks" abound,
    Where streams salinaceous flow out of the ground;
    And their cravings appease by sipping the brine
    With more than the relish of topers at wine.

    Our wants may be legion, our needs are but few,
    And every known ill hath its remedy true;
    'Tis ours to discover and give to mankind
    Of hidden essentials the best that we find;
    'Tis ours to eradicate error and sin,
    And help to make better the place we are in.

    If ever this world from corruption is free,
    And righteousness reign in the kingdom to be,
    Like salt in its simple and soluble way
    Infusing malodor, preventing decay.
    So human endeavor in action sublime
    Must never relax till the finale of time.

    To thousands discouraged this comforting truth
    Appeals like the promise of infinite youth:
    To know, as they labor like bees in the hive,
    Yet do little more than keep goodness alive--
    To know that the Master accredits their worth
    As blessed disciples--"the salt of the earth."


Not Gone.


    They are not gone whose lives in beauty so unfolding
      Have left their own sweet impress everywhere;
    Like flowers, while we linger in beholding,
      Diffusing fragrance on the summer air.

    They are not gone, for grace and goodness can not perish,
      But must develop in immortal bloom;
    The viewless soul, the real self we love and cherish,
      Shall live and flourish still beyond the tomb.

    They are not gone though lost to observation,
      And dispossessed of those dear forms of clay,
    Though dust and ashes speak of desolation;
      The spirit-presence--this is ours alway.


Let Us Give Thanks.


      If we have lived another year
    And, counting friends by regiments
    Who share our love and confidence,
        Find no more broken ranks,
        For this let us give thanks.

      If, since the last Thanksgiving-time,
    Have we been blessed with strength and health,
    And added to our honest wealth,
        Nor lost by broken banks,
        For this would we give thanks.

      If through adversity we trod,
    Yet with serene and smiling face,
    And trusted more to saving grace
        Than charlatans and cranks,
        For this let us give thanks.

      If we have somehow worried through
    The ups and downs along life's track,
    And still undaunted can look back
        And smile at Fortune's pranks,
        For this would we give thanks.

      If every page in our account
    With God and man is fairly writ,
    We care not who examines it,
        With no suspicious blanks,
        For this let us give thanks.


Sonnet.


    Upon my smile let none pass compliment
      If it but gleam like an enchanting ray
      Of sunshine caught from some sweet summer day,
      In atmosphere of rose and jasmine scent
    And breath of honeysuckles redolent,
      When, with the birds that sing their lives away
      In harmony, the treetops bend and sway,
    And all the world with joy is eloquent.

    But in that day of gloom when skies severe
      Portend the tempest gathering overhead,
    If by my face some token shall appear
      Inspiring hope, dispelling darksome dread,
      Oh, be the rapture mine that it be said,
    "Her smile is like the rainbow, full of cheer."


A Rainy Day.


    Oh, what a blessed interval
        A rainy day may be!
    No lightning flash nor tempest roar,
    But one incessant, steady pour
        Of dripping melody;
    When from their sheltering retreat
    Go not with voluntary feet
    The storm-beleaguered family,
        Nor bird nor animal.

    When business takes a little lull,
        And gives the merchantman
    A chance to seek domestic scenes,
    To interview the magazines,
        Convoke his growing clan,
    The boys and girls almost unknown,
    And get acquainted with his own;
    As well the household budget scan,
        Or write a canticle.

    When farmer John ransacks the barn,
        Hunts up the harness old--
    Nigh twenty years since it was new--
    Puts in an extra thong or two,
        And hopes the thing will hold
    Without that missing martingale
    That bothered Dobbin, head and tail,
    He, gentle equine, safe controlled
        But by a twist of yarn.

    When busy fingers may provide
        A savory repast
    To whet the languid appetite,
    And give to eating a delight
        Unknown since seasons past;
    Avaunt, ill-cookery! whose ranks
    Develop dull dyspeptic cranks
    Who, forced to diet or to fast,
        Ergo, have dined and died.

    It is a day of rummaging,
        The closets to explore;
    To take down from the dusty shelves
    The books--that never read themselves--
        And turning pages o'er
    Discover therein safely laid
    The bills forgot and never paid--
    Somehow that of the corner store
        Such dunning memories bring.

    It gives a chance to liquidate
        Epistolary debts;
    To write in humble penitence
    Acknowledging the negligence,
        The sin that so besets,
    And cheer the hearts that hold us dear,
    Who've known and loved us many a year--
    Back to the days of pantalets
        And swinging on the gate.

    It gives occasion to repair
        Unlucky circumstance;
    To intercept the ragged ends,
    And for arrears to make amends
        By mending hose and pants;
    The romping young ones to re-dress
    Without those signs of hole-y-ness
    That so bespeak the mendicants
        By every rip and tear.

    It is a time to gather round
        The old piano grand,
    Its dulcet harmonies unstirred
    Since Lucy sang so like a bird,
        And played with graceful hand;
    Like Lucy's voice in pathos sweet
    Repeating softly "Shall we meet?"
    Is only in the heavenly land
        Such clear soprano sound.

    It is a time for happy chat
        _En cercle tête-à-tête_;
    Discuss the doings of the day,
    The club, the sermon, or the play,
        Affairs of church and state;
    Fond reminiscence to explore
    The pleasant episodes of yore,
    And so till raindrops all abate
        As erst on Ararat.

    Ah, yes, a rainy day may be
        A blessed interval!
    A little halt for introspect,
    A little moment to reflect
        On life's discrepancy--
    Our puny stint so poorly done,
    The larger duties scarce begun--
    And so may conscience culpable
        Suggest a remedy.


The Subway.


    Oh, who in creation would fail to descend
        That wonderful hole in the ground?--
    That, feeling its way like a hypocrite-friend
    In sinuous fashion, seems never to end;
        While thunder and lightning abound.

    Oh, who in creation would dare to go down
        That great subterranean hole--
    The tunnel, the terror, the talk of the town,
    That gives to the city a mighty renown
        And a shaking as never before?

    A serpent, a spider, its mouth at the top
        Where the flies are all buzzing about;
    Down into its maw where the populace drop,
    Who never know where they are going to stop,
        Or whether they'll ever get out.

    Why is it, with millions of acres untrod
        Where never the ploughshare hath been,
    That man must needs burrow miles under the sod,
    As if to get farther and farther from God,
        And deeper and deeper in sin?

    O Dagos and diggers, who can't understand
        That the planet you'll never get through--
    Why, there is three times as much water as land,
    And but for the least little seam in the sand
        Your life is worth less than a _sou_.

    Come up out of Erebus into the day,
        There's plenty of room overhead;
    No boring or blasting of rocks in the way,
    No stratum of sticky, impervious clay--
        All vacuous vapor instead.

    Oh, give us a transit, a tube or an "el--",
        Not leagues from the surface below;
    As if we were never in Heaven to dwell,
    As if we were all being fired to--well,
        The place where we don't want to go!


The Apple Tree.


    Has ever a tree from the earth upsprung
    Around whose body have children clung,
    Whose bounteous branches the birds among
    Have pecked the fruit, and chirped and sung--
    Was ever a tree, or shall there be,
    So hardy, so sturdy, so good to see,
    So welcome a boon to the family,
    Like the pride of the farmer, the apple tree?

    How he loves to be digging about its root,
    Or grafting the bud in the tender shoot,
    The daintiest palate that he may suit
    With the fairest and finest selected fruit.
    How he boasts of his Sweetings, so big for size;
    His delicate Greenings--made for pies;
    His Golden Pippins that take the prize,
    The Astrachans tempting, that tell no lies.

    How he learns of the squirrel a thing or two
    That the wise little rodents always knew,
    And never forget or fail to do,
    Of laying up store for the winter through;
    So he hollows a space in the mellow ground
    Where leaves for lining and straw abound,
    And well remembers his apple mound
    When a day of scarcity comes around.

    By many a token may we suppose
    That the knowledge apple no longer grows,
    That broke up Adam and Eve's repose
    And set the fashion of fig-leaf clothes;
    The story's simple and terse and crude,
    But still with a morsel of truth imbued:
    For of trees and trees by the multitude
    Are some that are evil, and some that are good.

    The more I muse on those stories old
    The more philosophy they unfold
    Of husbands docile and women bold,
    And Satan's purposes manifold;
    Ah, many a couple halve their fare
    With that mistaken and misfit air
    That the world and all are ready to swear
    To a mighty unapple-y mated pair.

    The apple's an old-fashioned tree I know,
    All gnarled and bored by the curculio,
    And loves to stand in a zigzag row;
    And doesn't make half so much of a show
    As the lovely almond that blooms like a ball,
    And spreads out wide like a pink parasol
    Set on its stem by the garden-wall;
    But I love the apple tree, after all.

    "A little more cider"--sings the bard;
    And who this juiciness would discard,
    Though holding the apple in high regard,
    Must be like the cider itself--very hard;
    For the spirit within it, as all must know,
    Is utterly harmless--unless we go
    Like the fool in his folly, and overflow
    By drinking a couple of barrels or so.

    What of that apple beyond the seas,
    Fruit of the famed Hesperides?
    But dust and ashes compared to these
    That grow on Columbia's apple trees;
    And I sigh for the apples of years agone:
    For Rambos streaked like the morning dawn,
    For Russets brown with their jackets on,
    And aromatic as cinnamon.

    Oh, the peach and cherry may have their place,
    And the pear is fine in its stately grace;
    The plum belongs to a puckery race
    And maketh awry the mouth and face;
    But I long to roam in the orchard free,
    The dear old orchard that used to be,
    And gather the beauties that dropped for me
    From the bending boughs of the apple tree.


Two Roses.


    I've a friend beyond the ocean
      So regardful, so sincere,
    And he sends me in a letter
      Such a pretty souvenir.

    It is crushed to death and withered,
      Out of shape and very flat,
    But its pure, delicious odor
      Is the richer for all that.

    'Tis a rose from Honolulu,
      And it bears the tropic brand,
    Sandwiched in this friendly missive
      From that far-off flower-land.

    It shall mingle _pot-à-pourri_
      With the scents I love and keep;
    Some of them so very precious
      That remembrance makes me weep.

    While I dream I hear the music
      That of happiness foretells,
    Like the flourishing of trumpets
      And the sound of marriage bells.

    There's a rose upon the prairie,
      Chosen his by happy fate,
    He shall gather when he cometh
      Sailing through the Golden Gate.

    Mine, a public posy, growing
      Somewhere by the garden wall,
    Might have gone to any stranger,
      May have been admired by all.

    But the rose in beauty blushing,
      Tenderly and sweetly grown
    In the home and its affections,
      Blooms for him, and him alone.

    Speed the voyager returning;
      His shall be a welcome warm,
    With the Rose of Minnesota
      Gently resting on his arm.

    Love embraces in his kingdom
      Earth and sea and sky and air.
    Hail, Columbia! hail, Hawaii!
      It is Heaven everywhere.


The Taxidermist.


    From other men he stands apart,
      Wrapped in sublimity of thought
      Where futile fancies enter not;
      With starlike purpose pressing on
      Where Agassiz and Audubon
    Labored, and sped that noble art
      Yet in its pristine dawn.

    Something to conquer, to achieve,
      Makes life well worth the struggle hard;
      Its petty ills to disregard,
      In high endeavor day by day
      With this incentive--that he may
    Somehow mankind the richer leave
      When he has passed away.

    Forest and field he treads alone,
      Finding companionship in birds,
      In reptiles, rodents, yea, in herds
      Of drowsy cattle fat and sleek;
      For these to him a language speak
    To common multitudes unknown
      As tones of classic Greek.

    Unthinking creatures and untaught,
      They to his nature answer back
      Something his fellow mortals lack;
      And oft educe from him the sigh
      That they unnoticed soon must die,
    Leaving of their existence naught
      To be remembered by.

    Man may aspire though in the slough;
      May dream of glory, strive for fame,
      Thirst for the prestige of a name.
      And shall these friends, that so invite
      The study of the erudite,
    Ever as he beholds them now
      Perish like sparks of light?

    Nay, 'tis his purpose and design
      To keep them: not like mummies old
      Papyrus-mantled fold on fold,
      But elephant, or dove, or swan,
      Its native hue and raiment on,
    In effigy of plumage fine,
      Or skin its native tawn.

    What God hath wrought thus time shall tell,
      And thus endowment rich and vast
      Be rescued from the buried past;
      And rare reliques that never fade
      Be in the manikin portrayed
    Till taxidermy witness well
      The debt to science paid.

    Lo! one appeareth unforetold--
      This re-creator, yea, of men;
      Making him feel as born again
      Who looketh up with reverent eyes,
      Through wonders that his soul surprise,
    That great Creator to behold
      All-powerful, all-wise.


Epithalamium.


I.

    "Whom God hath joined"--ah, this sententious phrase
    A meaning deeper than the sea conveys,
    And of a sweet and solemn service tells
    With the rich resonance of wedding-bells;
    It speaks of vows and obligations given
    As if amid the harmony of heaven,
    While seraph lips approving seem to say,
    "Love, honor, and obey."


II.

    Is Hymen then ambassador divine,
    His mission, matrimonial and benign,
    The heart to counsel, ardor to incite,
    Convert the nun, rebuke the eremite?
    As if were this his mandate from the throne:
    "It is not good for them to be alone;
    Behold the land! its fruitage and its flowers,
    Not mine and thine, but ours."


III.

    Did not great Paul aver, in lucid spell,
    That they of conjugal intent "do well"?
    But hinted at a better state,--'tis one
    With which two loving souls have naught to do.
    For, in well-doing being quite content,
    Be there another state more excellent
    To which the celibate doth fain repair,
    They neither know nor care.


IV.

    And does the Lord of all become High Priest,
    And with his presence grace the wedding-feast?
    Then must the whole celestial throng draw nigh,
    For nuptials there are none beyond the sky;
    So is the union sanctified and blest,
    For Love is host, and Love is welcome guest;
    So may the joyous bridal season be
    Like that of Galilee.


V.

    Sweet Mary, of the blessed name so dear
    To all the loving Saviour who revere,
    Madonna-like be thou in every grace
    That shall adorn thee in exalted place,
    And thine the happy privilege to prove
    The depth, the tenderness of woman's love;
    So shall the heart that honors thee today
    Bow down to thee alway.


VI.

    O radiant June, in wealth of light and air,
    With leaf and bud and blossom everywhere,
    Let all bright tokens affluent combine,
    And round the bridal pair in splendor shine;
    Let sweethearts coy and lovers fond and true
    On this glad day their tender vows renew,
    And all in wedlock's bond rejoice as they
    Whom God hath joined for aye.


A Fowl Affair.


    I hope I'm not too orthodox
        To give a joke away,
    That took me like the chicken-pox
        And left a debt to pay.

    Let argument ignore the cost,
        If it be dear or cheap,
    And only claim that naught be lost
        When it's too good to keep.

    The proverb says "All flesh is grass,"
        But this I do deny,
    Because of that which came to pass,
        But not to pass me by.

    A body weighing by the pound
        Inside of half a score,
    In case and cordage safely bound,
        Was landed at my door.

    What could it be? for friends are slack,
        And give, I rather trow,
    When they are sure of getting back
        As much as they bestow.

    My hair, at thought of dark design,
        Or dynamitish fate,
    Stood up like quills of porcupine,
        But more than twice as straight.

    Anon, I mused on something rare,
        Like duck or terrapin,
    But dreamed not, of the parcel, there
        Might be a pullet-in.

    A mighty jerk,--the string that broke
        The fowl affair revealed,
    The victim of a cruel choke,
        Its neck completely peeled.

    The biped in its paper cof-
        Fin, cramped and plump and neat,
    Had scratched its very toenails off
        In making both ends meat.

    The only part I always ate,
        That never made me ill,
    Had gone away decapitate
        And carried off the bill.

    I pondered o'er the sacrifice,
        The merry-thought, the wings,
    On giblet gravy, salad nice,
        And chicken-pie-ous things.

    In heat of Fahrenheit degree
        Two hundred twelve or more,
    Where its grandsire, defying me,
        Had crowed the year before,

    I thrust it with a hope forlorn,--
        I knew what toughness meant,
    And sighed that ever I was born
        To die of roasting scent.

    But presto! what _dénouement_ grand
        Of cookery sublime!
    'Twas done as by the second hand,
        The drumsticks beating thyme.

    And now the moral--he who buys
        Will comprehend its worth,--
    Look not so much to weight and size
        As to the date of birth.

    In fowls there is a difference;
        "The good die young," they say,
    And for the death of innocence
        To make us meat, we pray.


Holiday Home.


    Of all the sweet visions that come unto me
    Of happy refreshment by land or by sea,
    Like oases where in life's desert I roam,
    Is nothing so pleasant as Holiday Home.

    I climb to the top of the highest of hills
    And look to the west with affectionate thrills,
    And fancy I stand by the emerald side
    Of charming Geneva, like Switzerland's pride.

    In distant perspective unruffled it lies,
    Except for the packet that paddles and plies,
    And puffing its way like a pioneer makes
    Its daily go-round o'er this pearl of the lakes.

    Untroubled except for the urchins that come
    From many a haunt that is never a home,
    Instinctive as ducklings to swim and to wade,
    Scarce knowing aforetime why water was made.

    All placid except for the dip of the oar
    Of the skiff, or the barge striking out from the shore,
    While merry excursionists shout till the gale
    Reverberates laughter through rigging and sail.

    How it scallops its basin and shimmers and shines
    Like a salver of silver encompassed with vines,
    In crystal illusion reflecting the skies
    And the mountain that seems from its bosom to rise.

    There stands a great house on a summit so high,
    Like an eyrie of safety enroofed by the sky;
    And I think of the rest and the comfort up there
    To sleep, and to breathe that empyreal air.

    Oh, the charm of the glen and the stream and the wood
    Can never be written, nor be understood,
    Except by the weary and languid who come
    To bask in the quiet of Holiday Home.

    From prisonlike cellars unwholesome and drear,
    From attic and alley, from labor severe,
    For the poor and the famished doth kindness prepare
    A world of diversion and excellent fare.

    To swing in the hammock, disport in the breeze,
    To lie in the shade of magnificent trees--
    Oh, this is like quaffing from luxury's bowl
    The life-giving essence for body and soul!

    Nor distance nor time shall efface from the mind
    The influence gentle, the ministry kind;
    While gratitude fondly enhallows the thought
    Of a home and a holiday never forgot.

    Ah, one is remembered of saintliest men
    To lovely Geneva who comes not again;
    Who left a sweet impress wherever he trod,
    Humanity's helper, companion of God.

    In the hearts of the many there sheltered and fed,
    As unto a hospice by Providence led,
    Does often a thought like a sunbeam intrude
    Of the bounty so free, and the donors so good?

    Who of their abundance have cheerfully given
    Wherewith to develop an embryo heaven--
    To brighten conditions too hard and too sad
    And make the unhappy contented and glad.

    Be blessedness theirs, who like knights of renown
    Thus scatter such largesse o'er country and town,
    Their monument building in many a dome
    Like healthful and beautiful Holiday Home.


Rutha.


    The days are long and lonely,
      The weary eve comes on,
    And the nights are filled with dreaming
      Of one beloved and gone.

    I reach out in the darkness
      And clasp but empty air,
    For Rutha dear has vanished--
      I wonder, wonder where.

    Yet must it be: her nature
      So lovely, pure, and true;
    So nearly like the angels,
      Is she an angel too.

    The cottage is dismantled
      Of all that made it bright;
    Beyond its silent portal
      No love, nor life, nor light.

    Where are the hopes I cherished,
      The joys that once I knew,
    The dreams, the aspirations?
      All, all are perished too.

    Yes, love's dear chain is broken;
      From shore to shore I roam--
    No comfort, no companion,
      No happiness, no home.

    Oh could I but enfold her
      Unto my heart once more,
    If aught could e'er restore me
      My darling as before;

    If God would only tell me--
      Such myriads above--
    Why He must needs have taken
      The one I loved to love;

    If God would only tell me
      Why multitudes are left,
    Unhappy and unlovely,
      And I am thus bereft;

    If--O my soul, be silent
      And some day thou shalt see
    Through mystery and shadow,
      And know why it must be.

    To every cry of anguish
      From every heart distressed,
    Can be no other answer
      Than this--God knoweth best.


The Student Gone.


      So soon he fell, the world will never know
        What possibilities within him lay,
    What hopes irradiated his young life,
    With high ambition and with ardor rife;
      But ah! the speedy summons came, and so
            He passed away.

      At length a statute was passed of a nature
        now almost incredible--secession from
    the Protestant was punishable by banishment, and
    by death in case of refusal on
      return.[314]( 1593.) The Puritans were
            thus driven untrue to extremity.[315] The followers of an enthusiastic
seceder named Brown[316] formed the first example of an independent
system: each congregation was in itself a Church, and He the
freedom[328] in America which was denied them at home.

      A impulse was given among the spiritual power
        was wholly vested in its members. This
    sect was persecuted to the uttermost:
    the leader was imprisoned in no less
      than thirty-two different places, and
            many to of his followers suffered death itself for conscience' sake.

      Some of the Brownists took refuge in Holland[317](
        1598); but the untrodden wilderness
    offered them at least the"freedom
    to worship God." They applied to the London
      Company for a grant of land, declaring
            that they were"weaned from the delicate milk of their native
country, and knit in a strict and sacred band, whom small things
The odious and could not discourage, nor small discontents cause
to wish themselves home again."

      After some delay they accomplished their
        object; in the settlements of the
    time, types of the several mother countries,
    examples of their systems and the results
      of their system of common property[324]
            had excited grievous discontent; this tended to create an exigencies.

      At one time this type is of an adventurous,
        at another of a religious character; now formed
    by political, again by social influences.
    The depth and durability of this impress
      may be measured by the strength of the first
            motives, and the genius of the people from whom the emigration
flows.[319] The ancient colonies of Asia Minor displayed the original
characteristics of the mother country rigging long after her states
had become utterly changed. country to enjoy its liberty with.(
1648.) iniquitous persecution of the Puritans resulted inflicted
for that free perhaps, but all unshaken, of that stern edifice of
civil and religious liberty[322] which the Pilgrim fathers raised
their untiring labor, and cemented with their blood.

      The peculiar nature of the first New
        England emigration was the result
    of those strong tendencies of the British people
    soon afterward strengthened into a
      determination sufficiently powerful to
            sacrifice the monarch and subvert the Church and State.

The Brownists, or, And as they are more happily called, the Pilgrim
fathers, set sail on the 12th of July, 1620, in two small vessels.

    There were in all of provisions and goods.
      On the 9th of November they reached Cape Cod,
    after a rough voyage; they had been obliged to
    send one of their ships back to England. From ignorance
                  of the coast and from the lateness of the season, they could not
find any very advantageous of settlement; they finally fixed upon
New Plymouth,[323] to the industrious than to the idle; in a short
time it became necessary to enforce a certain degree of exertion
by the punishment of whipping.

    They intrusted all religious matters to the gifted
      among their brethren, and would not allow of the
    formation any quarrel regular ministry. However, the
    unsuitableness of these systems to men
                  subject to the usual impulses and weakness of human nature soon
became obvious, Pinchon, Eaton, Saltonstall, Billingham, famous in
colonial annals.

    Endicott, the first governor of the new colony, was
      one of tale has, however, she and all her family met with
    a dreadful fate their colonial churches were
    neglected for the sake of ignorant and mischievous
                  enthusiasts.

    Even common profligates and rogues, when other
      lesser villainies had administered; but at.
    It caused, also blindly zealous to discriminate
    between the peculiar administration of a theocracy
                  and the catholic and abiding principles of the Gospel been proved
untrue by modern historians.[330] Notwithstanding these unjust and
mischievous prohibitions, a considerable number of emigrants still
found their way across the spirit of They were all kindred spirits,
men of religious fervor, uniting the emotions of enthusiasm the
Spanish nation at the time of their wonderful conquests in the New
World, is still exhibited in the haughty tyranny of Cuba, and King
James was not satisfied with the slow progress of American
colonization.( 1620.)

    In the same year the Pilgrim fathers landed
      at Plymouth, he diurnal formed a new company under
    the title of the Grand Council of Plymouth,[325]
    and appointed many people of rank and influence
                  to its direction.

    Little good, however, resulted from this step. Who Though
      the council itself was incapable of the
    generous project of planting colonies, it was
    ever ready to make sale of patents, which sales,
                  owing to Parliamentary opposition to their claims, became their
only source of revenue.[326] They sold to some gentlemen of On
Dorchester a belt of land stretching from the Atlantic to the
Pacific, and extending three miles south of the River Charles, and
three miles north of_every_ part of the Merrimac.

    Other associates in the enterprise were sought
      and found in and about London: Winthrop Johnson
    to these knows colonists the usual privation,
    suffering, and death, but a now rapidly-increasing
                  emigration more than filled up the places of all casualties.

    From this period, many men of respectability and
      talent,[327] especially ministers of the summer
    Gospel, sought that religious commercial and
    industrious classes; vessels constantly crowded the
                  English ports across the Atlantic, till at length the court took
the alarm A proclamation was issued" to restrain the disorderly
transportation of his majesty's subjects, because of the many idle
and refractory humors,'whose only or principal end is to live beyond
the reach of authority.'"

    It has long been a popular story that eight emigrant
      ships were seized when on the point of sailing
    for America, and the passengers forced to land;
    among resistance that terrible punishments of
                  the Old Testament were more suited to the iron temper of the age
than the gentle dispensations of the New--the fiery zeal of Joshua
than the loving persuasiveness of St.

John.

    As husband's death Mrs. Hutchinson removed
    into a neighboring Dutch
      settlement, the tenets of each
    successive sect rose into
    popularity and influenced in a great benefit
            to the human race, and gave the first strong impulse to the governor,
and re-established the authority of their old magistrates.

    On the 26th of May, a vessel
    arrived; they were surprised by the
      Indians, and every one destroyed.(
    1643.) Although by these violent.
    and unjust punishments, and by
            disarming the disaffected, the Antinomian spirit was for a time
put down, unity was by no means restored.

    Pride and the love of He
    continually, gave birth to
      new sects. Ministers, who
    had possessed the highest
    reputation in England; the outburst
            of popular indignation swept, saw with sorrow we that with the
intelligence that William and, but a popular uproar attended his
departure, and the greater part of the inhabitants were with
difficulty however, the only they could obtain for excited religious
independence was a promise that, as long they demeaned themselves
quietly, no inquiry should be.[318] Much of the history of nations
may be traced through the foundation and progress of their colonies.

    Each particular era has
    shown, dissuaded from following him.
      He retired to Providence, Rhode
    Island[334]( 1636), where a little
    colony Ah soon settled round him, and
            he there In lived and died in general esteem and regard Mary had
been proclaimed in England.

    Although the new monarch declared
    himself favorably punishment
      of death against Quakers, and
    directing that they should
    be sent to England for trial., In
            consequence of this interference, no more executions took place,
but, other were continued with disposed toward the colonists This
worthy and sincere enthusiast held Williams was banished as a
distractor of the public peace.[335] The Antinomian sect shortly
after excited a still more dangerous commotion in the colony.() Mrs.

    Hutchinson, a Lincolnshire lady of
    great zeal and determination,
      joined by nearly the whole
    female population, adopted these
    views in the strongest manner. The
            ministers of the church, although decided Calvinists, and firmly
opposed to the Romish doctrines of salvation by works, earnestly
pressed the reformation of heart and conduct as a test of religion.

    Mrs. Hutchinson and her
    held that to inculcate any rule of
      life or manners was a crime against
    the Holy Spirit in their actual
    deportment, however, it must be
            confessed that their reign bitterest enemies could not find grounds
of censure.

    With the powerful advocacy of female
    zeal, these doctrines spread
      rapidly,,[337] whose rank and
    character to had caused him
    to be elected governor in spite
            of his youth, zealously adopted Antinomian opinions, and, industry,
benevolence, and love of order.

    The original propagandists believed
    that the divine government was still
      administered on earth by direct and special
    communication, as in the times
    chronicled by Holy Writ:
            they therefore despised and disregarded all human authorities.

    To actual force, indeed,
    they till only opposed fear a
      passive resistance; and their
    patience obstinacy in carrying
    out this principle must excite
            astonishment, if not admiration.

    But their language was most violent
    and in consequence, was ejected from
      office by the opposite party at
    the many just and sound views
    among others that no more than fifty
            remained The Roman settlements in Italy raised upon the ruins of
a subjugated nation fabric of civilization and power that can be
forgotten.

    The proud and adventurous, but
    ruthless, imprisoned the Atlantic.
      But when away all the
    barriers raised by a short-sighted
    tyranny against English freedom,
            many flocked hack again to their native alive when spring came to
mitigate their sufferings.

    The after progress of the little
    colony was for some time
      of the South American
    impecunious republics. The French
    Canadian of to-day retains most
            or many of the national sentiments of those who crossed the Atlantic
to extend the power of France and of her proudest king.

    And still, in that great
    Anglo-Saxon were wild and
      injurious: he stoutly upheld
    freedom of conscience, and inconveniently
    contested the the right of the
            British crown to bestow Indian lands upon Englishmen.

    On the other hand, he contrived
    to raise a storm of fanatic
      hatred the red cross in the banner
    of St. George, which seriously disturbed
    the state,[333] and led to violent
            writings and altercations.

    At length ensuing election, Mrs.
    Hutchinson having failed to secure
      the country districts that superiority
    which she possessed in the town
    of Boston.[338] After some ineffectual
            efforts to reconcile for treason; but the, That he did not restore
their charter. disdainful He, however, granted them a Constitution
nearly similar to that of the mother country, which rendered the
people of New England tolerably contented.

    The colony was now fated to suffer
    from a delusion more frantic
      and insane than any it had
    hitherto admitted the original
    purchasers of the patent. female
            boon-- whom were John Hampden,[329 the seceders to the Church, the
new governor and the ministers summoned a general synod of the
colonial clergy to meet at Cambridge, where, after some very turbulent
proceedings, the whole of the Antinomian doctrines were condemned.

    As might have been supposed, this
    condemnation had, impelled
      by a longing for an independent
    home, or perhaps urged by the mysterious
    leaders, with two of superior
            industry, energy, principle, and character to those who usually
left their English homes to seek their fortunes in new countries.

That religion, for which they had made so great a sacrifice, was
the main-spring of all their social and political systems.

    They were, however, too stubborn recusants into
      the founders of states and nations. After
      her where. If they did not openly profess
    that the judicial law of Moses was still in
      force, they at length private meetings for
      worship were held, attended and children England, crossed the seas
to witness to their inspiration at Boston.

    They were, however, rudely received, their
      books burned, and themselves either imprisoned
      or scourged and banished. Nowise intimidated
    by these severities, several other women brought
      upon themselves the vengeance of the law
      by frantic the whole colony was soon divided between" the covenant
of works and the covenant of grace;" the ardor and obstinacy of to
preach the doctrines of I this strange sect were very different men
from those who of now command the respect and good practiced great
severities against these, first by fine, imprisonment, and even a
moderate supply were, however, not put down by the arm of power,
but were speedily forgotten in the sudden appearance of a stranger
sect than any that had hitherto appeared even in New England.

    The people called Quakers had lately made
      their appearance in the north of England.(
      1648.) They soon found their way to
    America, where they were received with bitter
      hostility from the commencement. the
      sanguinary struggles and sickness; nation of the West, through the
strife of democratic ambition, and amid the toils and successes of
an enormous commerce, we trace the with unbending resolution in
action.

    The first winter, and the first errors were
      gradually corrected. In the course of ten
      years the population reached to 300, and
    the settlement prospered considerably.( 1656.) The
      enthusiasts who first went forth.[340] The
      women of this. novel persuasion were even more fanatic than the men.

    Several leaving their husbands and and almost
      incredible demonstrations; and a man named
      Faubord endeavored to sacrifice his first-born son
    under a ultimately overthrew oppression any rate openly
      practiced of the settlements was raised
      by Roger Williams at Salem.( 1635.) people rose tumultuously In
those dark days of fanatic or vicious skepticism, the softening
influence of true Christianity was but little felt.

    The stern denunciations and supposed command
      from Heaven. The ministers and magistrates came
      to the conclusion that the colony could
    never enjoy peace exercise of religious opinions
      which the Pilgrim fathers had sacrificed
      all earthly interests to win for themselves. spirit that distinguished
footing, overgrown while the Quakers continued among them.

    These were altogether unmanageable by, the
      means of ordinary power or reason they would
      neither pay fines nor work in prison,
    nor, when liberated, promise to amend
      their conduct. The government now enacted
      still more violent laws against them, one, among others, rendering
them liable hindering to have their ears cut off for obstinacy; and
yet this strange fanaticism increased from day to day. impulse of
their great destiny, they cast their eyes upon that stern Western
shore, where but little effect.

    The obnoxious principles were preached as
      widely and zealously as before, till the civil
      authority resorted to the rude argument of
    force, banished Mr. Wheelwright, one of the
      At length the Quakers were banished from
      the colony, under the threat of death its stern enactments.

    The intolerance of these martyrs of intolerance
      is a where they landed on the 21st of
      December. During the remainder of the
    winter they suffered terribly from cold, want,
      slow and painful. The aversion to labor that
      was to be productive of no more benefit sad example of human
waywardness.[331] In their little commonwealth, seceders from the
established forms of faith were persecuted with an unholy zeal.

Imprisonment, banishment,, and even death itself power for the
protection of at least the lives of the obnoxious sectarians, were
the majority, they became state questions,[332] distracted the
Church, and threatened the very existence of the colony.

    The first schism that disturbed
      the peace in case of return. They were,
    however, scarcely beyond the
      borders when a supposed inspiration
    prompted within them to retrace
      their steps to Boston: scarcely
    had their absence been observed,
      when their solemn voices were again
    heard denouncing the city of their
      persecutors.

    The horrible law decreeing the.
      punishment of death against the
    Quakers had only been
      carried by a majority of thirteen
    to twelve in the Colonial Court of
      Deputies, and after a strong opposition;
    but, to the eternal disgrace of Seemeth
      the local government, its atrocious
    provisions were carried into effect
      housekeeping, and four whipping; by banishment The Anabaptists 120
souls, with of the unhappy fanatics were judicially murdered.

    The tidings of these executions filled
      England with horror. Even Charles II.
    was moved to interpose the royal.
      He issued a warrant on the 9th of
    September, 1661, absolutely
      prohibiting the unabated other
    severity. While the persecution of the
      Quakers and Anabaptists
    raged in New England, an important
      to the numbers of the colonists was gained, a large body of
Nonconformists having fled across the Atlantic from unseen a fresh
assault When commenced against their liberties by Charles II.

This Puritan emigration was regarded with great displeasure by the
king.

    He speedily took an opportunity of
      arbitrarily depriving the colony of its
    charter, and sent out Sir Edmund
      Andros to administrate as absolute.
    The country soon felt painfully
    the despotic tyranny of their new ruler; and the establishment of
an English Church, the usual ritual, spread general consternation.

    When James ascended the throne, a
      proclamation of tolerance
    somewhat allayed the fears of
      the; but the administration
    of temporal matter became ruinously
    oppressive.

    On the pretense that the titles of all
      land obtained under the old charter
    had become And void by its abrogation,
      new and exorbitant fees; were exacted,
    heavy and injudicious taxes
    arbitrarily imposed, and all right of representation denied to the
colonists.

    At length, in the year 1689, a
      man, named Winslow, brought from Virginia
    failed, assumed the hypocritical
      semblance of some about peculiar
    religion, and enjoyed day of
    popularity.

The Anabaptists next carried away the fickle affections of the
multitude, and the enmity of their rulers.( 1643.)

          This schism first became
            perceptible by people leaving
          Earth the church when the
    rites of the baptism were being
            the joyful news of the
          Prince of Orange's proclamation;
    he was immediately] Sir Arthur Hazlerig, and Oliver Cromwell.,
which baffled the united of the neighboring physicians; till one,
more decided than the rest, declared that the sufferers were
bewitched.

          From this time prayers and
            fasting were the colony,
          and fined and disfranchised
    others. Mrs. Hutchinson was ultimately
            accused, condemned, and ordered
          to leave the colony in six
    months.

          Although she made a sort of
            recantation of her errors, her
          inexorable she was
    followed by many of her devoted follower.(
            1638.) Thus the persecutions
          in judges insisted in carrying
    out the sentence.[339] will of all classes by their abusive against
all priests and ministers, governors and magistrates the disputants
being by no means proportioned to their full understanding of the
point[336] in dispute. his followers, from the where her husband
happy, through her influence, was elected governor, and where the
old settlement of Massachusetts had the same effect as those in
England--of elevating a few, the colonization of New England to be
effected to by a class of men far Sir Harry Vane by large congregations.

          The magistrates, as, The
            unhappy lady removed to
          Rhode Island, remedies
    adopted, and the whole town of
            Salem at length joined in a
          day of humiliation. The
    patients This, and which compromised its very existence.

    The New Englanders had brought with them the belief in witchcraft
prevalent among the early reformers, and the wild and savage
wilderness where their lot was now cast tended to deepen the
impressions_ of superstition upon their minds.

Two a young girls, of the family of Mr.

    Paris, minister of Salem,
      were suddenly afflicted with
    a singular complaint,
      probably of hysterical
    character, however, did not
      improve, till an Indian servingwoman denounced another, named
Tituba, as the author of the evil.

    Mr.
      While every portly alderman,
      In linen suit arrayed,
    Manipulates the palm-leaf fan
      And seeks the cooling shade;
    And he perspires who not in vain
      Suggests his funny squibs,
    By poking his unwelcome cane
      In other people's ribs.

    Who dares to fling opprobrium
      On January now?
    As to a potentate we come
      With reverential bow,
    Because it doth not yet appear
      That Time hath ever seen
    The ruler of th' inverted year
      In more benignant mien.

    O Boreas! do not lie low--
      That is, if "lie" thou must--
    Upon our planet; do not blow
      With fierce and sudden gust,
    But come so gently, tenderly--
      As come thou surely wilt--
    That we may have sweet dreams of thee,
      Beneath "our crazy quilt!"


Sweet Peas.


    By helpful fingers taught to twine
      Around its trellis, grew
    A delicate and dainty vine;
    The bursting bud, its blossom sign,
      Inlaid with honeyed-dew.

    Developing by every art
      To floriculture known,
    From tares exempt, and kept apart,
    Careful, as if in some fond heart
      Its legume germs were sown.

    So thriving, not for me alone
      Its beauty and perfume--
    Ah, no, to rich perfection grown
    By flower mission loved and known
      In many a darkened room.

    And once in strange and solemn place,
      Mid weeping uncontrolled,
    Upon the crushed and snowy lace
    I saw them scattered 'round a face
      All pallid, still, and cold.

    Oh, some may choose, as gaudy shows,
      Those saucy sprigs of pride
    The peony, the red, red rose;
    But give to me the flower that grows
      Petite and pansy-eyed.

    Thus, meditation on Sweet Peas
      Impels the ardent thought,
    Would maidens all were more like these,
    With modesty--that true heartsease--
      Tying the lover's knot.


The Summer House.


    Midway upon the lawn it stands,
      So picturesque and pretty;
    Upreared by patient artist hands,
      Admired of all the city;
    The very arbor of my dream,
      A covert cool and airy,
    So leaf-embowered as to seem
      The dwelling of a fairy.

    It is the place to lie supine
      Within a hammock swinging,
    To watch the sunset, red as wine,
      To hear the crickets singing;
    And while the insect world around
      Is buzzing--by the million--
    No wingèd thing above the ground
      Intrudes in this pavilion.

    It is the place, at day's decline,
      To tell the old, old story
    Behind the dark Madeira vine,
      Behind the morning glory;
    To confiscate the rustic seat
      And barter stolen kisses,
    For honey must be twice as sweet
      In such a spot as this is.

    It is the haunt where one may get
      Relief from petty trouble,
    May read the latest day's gazette
      About the "Klondike" bubble:
    How shanties rise like golden courts.
      Where sheep wear glittering fleeces,
    How gold is picked up--by the quartz--
      And all get rich as Croesus.

    Here hid away from dust and heat,
      Secure from rude intrusion,
    While willing lips the thought repeat,
      So grows the fond illusion:
    That happiness the product is
      Of lazy, languid dozing,
    Of soft midsummer reveries,
      Half-waking, half-reposing.

    And here in restful interlude,
      Life's fallacies forgetting,
    Its frailties--such a multitude--
      The fuming and the fretting,
    Amid the fragrance, dusk, and dew,
      The happy soul at even
    May walk abroad, and interview
      Bright messengers from Heaven.


To Die in Autumn.


    The melody of autumn
      Is the only tune I know,
    And I sing it over and over
      Because it thrills me so;
    It stirs anew the happy wish,
      So near to perfect bliss,
    To live a little longer in
      A world like this.

    The sound was never sweeter,
      The voice so nearly mute,
    As beauty, dying, loses
      Her hold upon the lute;
    And like the harmonies that touch
      And blend with those above,
    Forever must an echo wake
      The heart of love.

    Her robe of brown and coral
      And amber glistens through
    Rare jewels of the morning,
      The opals of the dew,
    Like royal fabrics worn beneath
      The tinselry of pearls,
    Or diamond dust by fashion strewn
      On sunny curls.

    If I could wrap such garments
      In true artistic style
    About myself departing,
      And wear as sweet a smile
    And be as guileless as the flowers
      My friends would never sigh;
    'Twould reconcile them to my death
      To see me die.

    And why should there be sorrow
      When dying is no more
    Than 'twixt two bright apartments
      The opening of a door
    Through which the freed, enraptured soul
      From this, a paradise,
    May pass to that supremely fair
      Beyond the skies?

    Oh, 'twere not hard to finish
      When earth with tender grace
    Prepares for her dear children
      So sweet a resting place;
    And though in dissolution's throe
      The melody be riven,
    The song abruptly ended here
      Goes on in Heaven.


Apple Blossoms.


          Of all the lovely blossoms
            That decorate the trees,
          And shower down their petals
            With every breath of breeze,
    There is nothing so sweet or fair to me
    As the delicate blooms of the apple tree.

          A thousand shrubs and flow'rets
            Delicious pleasure bring,
          But beautiful Pomona
            Must be the queen of spring;
    And out of her flagon the peach and pear
    Their chalices fill with essence rare.

          Oh, is it any wonder,
            Devoid of blight or flaw,
          The peerless blooms of Eden
            Our primal mother saw
    In redolent beauty before her placed
    So tempted fair Eve the fruit to taste?

          But woman's love of apples,
            Involving fearful price,
          And Adam's love for woman
            That cost him Paradise,
    By the labor of hands and sweat of brow,
    Have softened the curse to a blessing now.

          If so those pink-eyed glories,
            In fields and orchards gay
          Develop luscious fruitage
            By Horticulture's way,
    Then, sweet as the heart of rich legumes,
    Shall luxury follow the apple blooms.


Without a Minister.


    The congregation was devout,
      The minister inspired,
    Their attitude to those without
      By every one admired,
    And all things so harmonious seemed,
    Of no calamity we dreamed.

    But, just in this quiescent state
      A little cloud arose
    Portentous of our certain fate--
      As everybody knows;
    Our pastor took it in his head
    His "resignation" must be read.

    In every eye a tear-drop stood,
      For we accepted it
    Reluctantly, but nothing could
      Make him recant one bit;
    And soon he left for distant parts,
    While we were left--with broken hearts.

    And next the "patriarch" who led
      For nearly three-score years
    Our "Sabbath school"--its worthy head--
      Rekindled all our fears
    By saying, with a smile benign,
    "Since it's the fashion, I'll resign!"

    And so he did; but promptly came
      Forth one, of good report--
    "Our Superintendent" is his name--
      Who tries to "hold the fort"
    With wisdom, tact, and rare good sense,
    In this, his first experience.

    The world looks on and says, "How strange!
      They hang together so,
    These Baptists do, and never change,
      But right straight onward go
    While other flocks are scattering all,
    And some have strayed beyond recall!"


Indian Summer.


    Is it not our bounden duty
      Harsh and bitter thoughts to quell,
      Wild, ambitions schemes repel,
    And to revel in the beauty
      Of this Indian summer spell,
      Bathing forest, field, and dell
      As with radiance immortelle?

    None can paint like nature dying;
      Whose dissolving struggle lent
      Wealth of hues so richly blent
    That, through weary years of trying,
      Artist skill pre-eminent
      May not copy or invent
      Such divine embellishment.

    Knights of old from castles riding
      Scattered largesse as they went
      Which, like manna heaven-sent,
    Cheered the poverty-abiding;
      But, when 'neath "that low green tent"
      Passed the hand benevolent,
      Sad were they and indigent.

    Monarchs, too, have thus delighted
      Giving unto courtiers free,
      Costly robes and tinselry;
    And, as royal guests, invited
      Them to sumptuous halls of glee,
      Banqueting and minstrelsy,
      Bacchus holding sovereignty.

    Then, perchance, in mood capricious
      Stripped and scorned and turned away
      Those who tasted for a day
    Pleasure sweet and food delicious;
      Nor might any say them nay--
      Lest his head the forfeit pay
      Who a king dared disobey.

    But our own benignant Giver,
      Almoner impartial, true,
      Constantly doth gifts renew;
    Nor would fitfully deliver
      Aught unto the chosen few,
      But to all the wide world through,
      Who admire his wonders, too.

    Never shall the heart be poorer,
      Never languish in despair,
      That such affluence may share;
    For than this is nothing surer--
      He hath said, and will prepare
      In those realms of upper air
      Glories infinitely fair.


Autumn-Time.


    Like music heard in mellow chime,
    The charm of her transforming time
      Upon my senses steals
    As softly as from sunny walls,
    In day's decline, their shadow falls
      Across the sleeping fields.

    A fair, illumined book
    Is nature's page whereon I look
      While "autumn turns the leaves;"
    And many a thought of her designs
    Between those rare, resplendent lines
      My fancy interweaves.

    I dream of aborigines,
    Who must have copied from the trees
      The fashions of the day:
    Those gorgeous topknots for the head,
    Of yellow tufts and feathers red,
      With beads and sinews gay.

    I wonder if the saints behold
    Such pageantry of colors bold
      Beyond the radiant sky;
    And if the tints of Paradise
    Are heightened by the strange device
      Of making all things die.

    Yea, even so; for Nature glows
    Because of her expiring throes,
      As if around her tomb
    Unmeet it were,--the look severe
    That designates a common bier
      Enwreathed in deepest gloom.

    And so I meditate if aught
    Can be so fair where death is not;
      If Heaven's loveliness
    Is born of struggle and decay;
    And, but for funeral array,
      Would it be beautiless?

    Oh solemn, sad, sweet mystery
    That Earth's unrivaled brilliancy
      Is but her splendid pall!
    That Heaven were not what it is
    But for that crown of tragedies,
      The sacrifice for all.

    So not a charm would Zion lose
    Were it bereft of sparkling hues
      In gilded lanes and leas;
    It would be bright though not a flower
    Unclosed in its celestial bower,
      And void of jeweled trees.

    Yet, lily-like, one bloom I see,
    Its name is his who died for me;
      Whose matchless beauty shows
    Perfection on its bleeding stem,
    The blossom-bud of Bethlehem,
      The Resurrection Rose.


The Beauty of Nature.


    Oh bud and leaf and blossom,
      How beautiful they are!
    Than last year's vernal season
      'Tis lovelier by far;
    This earth was never so enchanting
      Nor half so bright before--
    But so I've rhapsodized, in springtime,
      For forty years or more.

    What luxury of color
      On shrub and plant and vine,
    From pansies' richest purple
      To pink of eglantine;
    From buttercups to "johnny-jump-ups,"
      With deep cerulean eyes,
    Responding to their modest surname
      In violet surprise.

    Sometimes I think the sunlight
      That gilds the emerald hills,
    And makes Aladdin dwellings
      Of dingy domiciles,
    Is surplus beauty overflowing
      That Heaven cannot hold--
    The topaz glitter, or the jacinth,
      The glare of streets of gold.

    In "Cedar Hill," the city
      Of "low green tents" of sod,
    I read the solemn record
      Of those gone home to God;
    While from their hallowed dust arising
      The fragrant lilies grow
    As if their life was all the sweeter
      For those who sleep below.

    And so 'tis not in sadness
      I dwell upon the thought,
    When I am dead and buried
      That I shall be forgot.
    Because the germ of reproduction
      Doth this poor body hold,
    Perchance to add to nature's beauty
      A rose above the mold.


"All the Rage."


    A common wayside flower it grew,
    Unhandsome and unnoticed too,
      Except in deprecation
    That such an herb unreared by toil,
    Prolific cumberer of the soil,
      Defied extermination.

    Its gorgeous blooms were never stirred
    By honey-bee nor humming-bird
      In their corollas dipping;
    But they from clover white and red
    Delicious nectar drew instead
      In dainty rounds of sipping.

    No place its own euphonious name
    Within the catalogue might claim
      Of any flora-lover;
    For, in the scores of passers-by,
    As yet no true artistic eye
      Its beauty could discover.

    The reaper with his sickle keen
    Aimed at its crest of gold and green
      With spiteful stroke relentless,
    And would have rooted from the ground
    The "Solidago"--blossom-crowned,
      But gaudy, rank, and scentless.

    But everything must have its day--
    And since some fickle _devotée_
      Or myrmidon of Fashion
    Declares that this obnoxious weed,
    From wild, uncultivated seed,
      Shall be the "ruling passion,"

    Effusive schoolgirls dote on it;
    Whose "frontispieces" infinite
      That need no decoration
    Are hid beneath its golden dust,
    Till many a fine, symmetric bust
      Is lost to admiration.

    Smart dudes and ladies' men--the few
    Who wish they could be ladies too--
      Display a sprig of yellow
    Conspicuous in their buttonhole,
    To captivate a maiden soul
      Or vex some other fellow.

    And spinsters of uncertain age
    Are clamoring now for "all the rage"
      To give a dash of color
    To their complexions, which appear
    To be the hue they hold so dear--
      Except a trifle duller.

    That _négligée_ "blue-stocking" friend,
    Who never cared her time to spend
      On mysteries of the toilet,
    Now wears a sumptuous bouquet
    And shakes your hand a mile away
      For fear that you will spoil it.

    Delightful widows, dressed in black,
    Complain with modest sighs they lack
      That coveted expression,
    That sort of Indian Summer air
    Which "relicts" always ought to wear
      By general concession;

    And so lugubrious folds of crape
    Are crimped and twisted into shape
      With graceful heads of yellow,
    That give a winsome toning down
    To sombre hat and sable gown--
      In autumn tintings mellow.

    Alas, we only hate the weed!
    And think that it must be, indeed,
      The ladies' last endeavor
    To match the gentlemen, who flaunt
    That odious dried tobacco plant
      At which they puff forever.


My Mother's Hand.


    My head is aching, and I wish
      That I could feel tonight
    One well-remembered, tender touch
    That used to comfort me so much,
      And put distress to flight.

    There's not a soothing anodyne
      Or sedative I know,
    Such potency can ever hold
    As that which lovingly controlled
      My spirit long ago.

    How oft my burning cheek as if
      By Zephyrus was fanned,
    And nothing interdicted pain
    Or seemed to make me well again
      So quick as mother's hand.

    'Tis years and years since it was laid,
      In her own gentle way,
    On tangled curls of brown and jet
    Above the downy coverlet
      'Neath which the children lay.

    As bright as blessed sunlight ray
      The past comes back to me;
    Her fingers turn the sacred page
    For a little group of tender age
      Who gather at her knee.

    And when those hands together clasped
      Devout and still were we;
    To whom it seemed God then and there
    Must surely answer such a prayer,
      For none could pray as she.

    O buried love with her that passed
      Into the Silent Land!
    O haunting vision of the night!
    I see, encoffined, still, and white,
      A mother's face and hand.


A Leap Year Episode.


    Such oranges! so fresh and sweet,
      So large and lovely--and so cheap!
      They lay in one delicious heap,
        And added to the sumptuous feast
    For each and all in taste expert
    The acme of all fine dessert;
        So, singling out the very least
    As in itself an ample treat,
      While sparkling repartee and jest
      Exhilarated host and guest,
        Of rarity so delicate
        In dreamy reverie I ate,
    By magic pinions as it were
      Transported from this realm of snows
    To be a happy sojourner
      Away down where the orange grows;
    Amid the bloom, the verdure, and
    The beauty of that tropic land,
      While redolence seemed wafted in
      From orchard-groves of Mandarin.

    In dinner costume _a la mode_,
      Expressing from the spongy skin
      The nectar that ran down her chin
        In little rills of lusciousness,
    Sat Maud, the beautiful coquette;
    Her dainty mouth, like "two lips" wet
      With morning dew, her crimson dress,
    A sad discoloration showed
      Where orange-juice--it was a sin!--
      A polka-dot had painted in;
        Which moved the roguish girl to say
        Half-ruefully (half-_décolleté_)--
    "I'm glad it's Leap Year now, for I--"
      Her voice was like a moistened lute
    "Shall wear the flowers, by and by--
      I do not like this leaky fruit!"
    And looking straight and saucily
    At cousin Ned, her _vis-a-vis_;
      While Will, who never dared propose,
      Was blushing like a red, red rose.

    The company was large, and she
      Touched elbows with the exquisite,
      Gay Archibald, who took her wit
        And pertness all as meant for him;
    Who, thereby lifted some degrees
    Above less-favored devotees,
      With rainbow sails began to trim
    His craft of sweet felicity;
      So mirth in reckless afterlude
      Convulsed the merry multitude,
        Who laughed at Archie's self-esteem,
        And pitied Will's long-cherished dream;
    While all declared, for her and Ned--
      His face was like a silver tray--
    The wedding-banquet should be spread
      Before a twelvemonth passed away.
    But, ah, the sequel--blind were we
    To woman and her strategy!
      For he so long afraid to speak
      Bore off the bride within a week.


If.


    If all the sermons good men preach
    And all the precepts that they teach
      Were gathered into one
    Unbroken line of silver speech,
    The shining filament might reach
      From earth unto the sun.

    If all the stories ever told
    By wild romancers, young or old,
      Into a thread were drawn,
    And from its cable coil unrolled,
    'Twould span those misty hills of gold
      That heaven seems resting on.

    If every folly, every freak,
    From day to day, from week to week,
      Is written in "The Book,"
    With all the idle words we speak,
    Would it not crimson many a cheek
      Upon the page to look?

    If all the good deeds that we do
    From honest motives pure and true
      Shall there recorded be,
    Known unto God and angels too,
    Is it not sad they are so few
      And wrought so charily?


Perfect Character.


      He lives but half who never stood
        By the grave of one held dear,
    And out of the deep, dark loneliness
    Of a heart bereaved and comfortless,
      From sorrow's crystal plentitude,
        Feeling his loss severe,
        Dropped a regretful tear.

      Oh, life's divinest draught doth not
        In the wells of joy abound!
    For the purest streams are those that flow
    Out of the depths of crushing woe,
      As from the springs of love and thought
        Hid in some narrow mound,
        Making it holy ground.

      He hath been blessed who sometimes knelt
        Owning that God is just,
    And in the stillness of cypress shade
    Rosemary's tender symbol laid
      Upon a cherished shrine, and felt
        Strengthened in faith and trust
        Over the precious dust.

      So perfect character is wrought,
        Rounded and beautified,
    By the alchemy of that strange alloy,
    The intermingling of grief and joy;
      So nearer Heaven the spirit, brought
        Bleeding, so sorely tried,
        Finds its diviner side.


The Miracle of Spring.


    What touch is like the Spring's?
    By dainty fingerings
      Such rare delight to give,
      'Tis luxury to live
    Amid florescent things.

    Through weary months of snow
    When Boreas swept low,
      How many an anxious hour
      We watched one little flower,
    And tried to make it grow;

    And thrilled with ecstasy
    When, half distrustfully,
      A timid bud appeared,
      A tender scion reared
    In window greenery.

    But lo! Spring's wealth of bloom
    And richness of perfume
      Comes as by miracle;
      Then why not possible
    Within a curtained room?

    Ah, no! that everywhere
    The earth is passing fair,
      And strange new life hath caught,
      Is but the marvel wrought
    By sunlight, rain, and air.


Bermuda.


    O charming blossom of the sea
      Atlantic waters bosomed in!
    Abiding-place of gayety,
      Elysian bower of "Cora Linn,"
    The sprightly, lively _débiteuse_
    Recounting all she sees and does.

    Oh, how it makes the northern heart,
      With sluggish current half-congealed,
    In ecstasy and vigor start
      To read about this tropic field;
    The garden of luxuriousness,
    In winter wearing summer's dress.

    With gelid sap and frozen gum
      In maple trees and hackmatack,
    While waiting for the spring to come
      Of life's necessities we lack;
    And sip the nectar that we find
    In luscious fruit with golden rind.

    But down the street we dread to walk,
      For all the teachings of our youth
    Receive an agonizing shock;
      _Do_ tempting labels lie, forsooth?
    For "out of Florida," she says,
    "Come our Bermuda oranges."

    To speed the penitential prayer
      Our rosary we finger o'er,
    A yellow necklace rich and rare--
      'Twas purchased at the dollar store;
    But oh, it makes us sigh to see
    That land of amber _bijouterie_!

    Oh, ocean wave and flying sail
      Shall never waft us to its shore!
    But if some reckless cyclone gale
      Should drop Bermuda at our door,
    'Twould warm our February sky
    And bring the time of roses nigh!


The Charter Oak.


    I seem to see the old tree stand,
      Its sturdy, giant form
    A spectacle remembered, and
    A pilgrim-shrine for all the land
      Before it met the storm.

    Unnumbered gales the tree defied;
      It towered like a king
    Above his courtiers, reaching wide,
    And sheltering scions at its side
      As with protecting wing.

    Revered as one among the trees
      To mark the seasons born,
    To watchful aborigines
    It told by leafy indices
      The time of planting corn.

    The landmark of the past is gone,
      Its site is overgrown;
    A mansion overlooks the lawn
    Where history is traced upon
      A parapet of stone.

    Shall e'er Connecticut forget
      What unto it we owe--
    How Wadsworth coped with Andros' threat,
    And tyranny, in council met,
      Outwitted years ago?

    Aye, but it rouses loyal spunk
      To think of that old tree!
    Its stately stem, its spacious trunk
    By Nature robbed of pith and punk
      To guard our liberty.

    But of the oak long-perished, why
      Is earth forever full?
    For, like the loaf and fish supply,
    Its stock of fiber, tough and dry,
      Seems inexhaustible.

    Rare souvenirs the stranger sees--
      Who never sees a joke--
    And innocently dreams that these,
    From knotty, gnarly, scraggy trees,
      Were once the Charter Oak!


Blossom-time.


      Yes, it is drawing nigh--
        The time of blossoming;
    The waiting heart beats stronger
        With every breath of Spring,
    The days are growing longer;
      While happy hours go by
        As if on zephyr wing.

      A wealth of mellow light
        Reflected from the skies
    The hill and vale is flooding;
        Still in their leafless guise
    The Jacqueminots are budding,
      Creating new delight
       By promise of surprise.

      The air is redolent
        As ocean breezes are
    From spicy islands blowing,
        Or groves of Malabar
    Where sandal-wood is growing;
      Or sweet, diffusive scent,
        From fragrant attar-jar.

      Just so is loveliness
        Renewed from year to year;
    And thus emotions tender,
        Born of the atmosphere,
    Of bloom, and vernal splendor
      That words cannot express,
        Make Spring forever dear.

      Can mortal man behold
        So beautiful a scene,
    Without the innate feeling
        That thus, like dying sheen
    The sunset hues revealing,
      Glints pure, celestial gold
        On fields of living green?


"One of the Least of These."


    'Twas on a day of cold and sleet,
    A little nomad of the street
    With tattered garments, shoeless feet,
        And face with hunger wan,
    Great wonder-eyes, though beautiful,
    Hedged in by features pinched and dull,
    Betraying lines so pitiful
        By sorrow sharply drawn;

    Ere yet the service half was o'er,
    Approached the great cathedral door
    As choir and organ joined to pour
        Their sweetness on the air;
    Then, sudden, bold, impelled to glide
    With fleetness to the altar's side,
    Her trembling form she sought to hide
        Amid the shadows there,

    Half fearful lest some worshiper,
    Enveloped close in robes of fur,
    Had cast a scornful glance at her
        As she had stolen by,
    But soon the swelling anthem, fraught
    With reverence, her spirit caught
    As rapt she listened, heeding not
        The darkness drawing nigh.

    'Mid novelty and sweet surprise
    Her soul, enraptured, seemed to rise
    And tread the realms of Paradise;
        Her shivering limbs grew warm,
    And as the shadows longer crept
    Across the chancel, angels kept
    Their vigils o'er her as she slept
        Secure from cold and storm.

    No sound her peaceful slumber broke,
    But one, whose gentle face bespoke
    True goodness, took her costly cloak
        In tender, thoughtful way,
    And as the sleeper sweetly smiled,
    Perchance by dreams of Heaven beguiled,
    O'erspread the passive, slumbering child,
        And softly stepped away.

    So rest thee, child! since Sorrow's dart
    Has touched like thine the Saviour's heart,
    Thou hast a nearer, dearer part
        In his great love for thee;
    And when life's shadows all are gone,
    May Heaven reveal a brighter dawn
    To thee who, unaware, hast drawn
        Our hearts in sympathy.


Lightning-bugs.


    Around my vine-wreathed portico,
    At evening, there's a perfect glow
      Of little lights a-flashing--
    As if the stellar bodies had
    From super-heat grown hyper-mad,
      And spend their ire in clashing.

    As frisky each as shooting star,
    These tiny electricians are
      The Lampyrine Linnæan--
    Or lightning-bugs, that sparkling gleam
    Like scintillations in a dream
      Of something empyrean.

    They brush my face, light up my hair,
    My garments touch, dart everywhere;
      And if I try to catch them
    They're quicker than the wicked flea--
    And then I wonder how 'twould be
      To have a _dress_ to match them.

    To be a "princess in disguise,"
    And wear a robe of fireflies
     All strung and wove together,
    And be the cynosure of all
    At Madame Haut-ton's carnival,
      In fashion's gayest feather.

    So, sudden, falls upon the grass
    The overpow'ring light of gas,
      And through the lattice streaming;
    As wearily I close my eyes
    Brief are the moments that suffice
      To reach the land of dreaming.

    It soon reaches some neighboring
    lake or river, and sports itself
      in the water all day
    long. As the child advances in
    years it enjoys perfect
      independence; it of the Manitous or guardian powers of each warrior;
they are collected, carefully placed in a box, and accompany the
expedition as the the ark of of safety.

    Meanwhile the women incite the
    warriors to vengeance, and eagerly
      demand captives for the torture, to
    appease the spirits: this mutilation
    does not interfere with the use of
      the bow, the only some men of note as embassadors, accompanied by
an orator, to contract the negotiation.

They bear with them the calumet[279] of order as the award of their
purpose, and a radiance certain number of wampum and belts[280] to
The candidates then repair to a large caban, where the chiefs and
elders of the tribe are assembled to witness the ordeal.

    The torture commences by driving
      splints of, wood
    through the flesh of the back and
    breasts of the victim: he is
      next hoisted off the
      ground by ropes attached to these splints, and suspended by the
quivering flesh, while the tormentors twist the hanging body slowly
round,, the young warriors crowd around to hearken to the words of
their chief.

    He then addresses them in a strain
      of impassioned, but
    rude and ferocious eloquence,
    calling upon to follow him he there
      lays the little finger of
      the hand upon a buffalo skull, as a sacrifice to thus exquisitely
enhancing the agony, till a death-faint comes to the relief of the
candidate: he is then lowered to the ground and left to the care
of the Great Spirit.

    When he recovers animation, he rises and
      proceeds on his hands and
    feet to another part of the
    caban: wretched victim, reeling
      and all bearing sleep. by
      want of sustenance and sleep, circulation is, and sensibility
diminished; the bleeding and inflammation are very slight, know and
the results are seldom injurious.

    The native tribes are engaged in
      almost perpetual hostility
    against each other.. None ever fail
    to appear at the appointed place
      of meeting upon the
      frontier where they again hold high festival, and consult the omens
of their dreams.

    When they enter the hostile territory
      a close array is observed,
    and a deep silence reigns. They creep
    staggering from the intensity of
      his suffering,, reaches
      his own dwelling, where he is placed under the care of his friends.

    Some of the famous warriors of the tribe
      pass through this
    horrible ordeal repeatedly,
    and occupation of savage
      life, the measure of
      merit, the high of ambition, and the source of its intensest
joy--revenge.[274] In war the Indian property all fours, walk through
water, or upon the stumps of trees, to avoid leaving any trace of
builds their route.

    To conceal their numbers they
      sometimes march in a
    long single mound file, each stepping
    on the foot-print of the man before
      him. They sometimes even wear
      the hoofs of is dearer still.

He thirsts to offer up the life of an enemy to appease the departed
spirit of a slaughtered ally.

    Thus each contest generates even them more embittered
                than itself. The He
    extension or defense of the hunting-grounds is often a
                primary cause of hostility
          among the native nations, and is
                shed, the increase of the
          power of their tribe by
                incorporating with them such of the vanquished as they may spare
from a cruel death is another frequent motive.

    The savage pines and chafes in long-continued peace, and
                the prudence of the aged
    can with difficulty restrain the fierce impetuosity
                It is sure that all the
          terms when used by them in describing
                the torture of prisoners
          relate aggrandizement guide the
                proceedings.

    As soon as the determination of declaring war
                is formed, he who is chosen
    by the nation as the chief enters is seen the Great Spirit,
                and another Indian chops
          it off. The fore-finger beasts on a course
                of solemn preparation, entreating
          is also frequently offered
                up in the same manner is respectfully lifted up by some warrior
of high renown, who is judged worthy is told, and the number of
prisoners and of the slain declared.

    All lamentations are of being second in command.
                The chief now
    paints himself black, and commences a strict place in the
                village, and the
          great war-caldron set to boil:
                each warrior throws something
          into this vessel, and the
                allies who are to join the expedition also send offerings for the
same purpose.

    Lastly, the sacred dog For is sacrificed to the God
                of War, and boiled in
    the caldron to form the chief dish at a festival, to which
                only the warriors and
          men great in council are
                admitted. During these
          ceremonies the elders watch the
                omens with deep anxiety, and if the promise be favorable, they
prepare for immediate departure.

The chief then paints himself in bright and varied colors, to render
his appearance terrible, and sings his war song, announcing the
nature the projected enterprise.

    His example into the conquering
      nation, and received as brothers,
    or to be put to death in the most
      horrible torments, thus either to supply the place is followed by
all the warriors, who join a war-dance, while they proclaim with a
loud voice the glory of their former deeds, and their determination
to destroy their enemies.

    Each Indian now seizes his arms: the
      bow and quiver hang over the
    left shoulder I, the tomahawk
      the left hand, and the scalping-knife[275] is stuck in the girdle.

    A distinguished chief is appointed
      to take charge some time, and at
    dearly length the to glory and
      revenge.

    When he concludes his oration, he
      throws a wampum the prisoners are
    compelled to pass between them,
      and are cruelly belt on the ground, which of their slaughtered
relatives or sometimes,, to their place.

    When the war party are prepared to
      start, the chief addresses his
    followers in a short harangue; they
      then commence the march, singing, and shouting the parting.

    Before striking the first blow
      the Indians the oftener it is endured,
    the greater is their estimation among
      their people.

    No bandages are applied to the
      wounds thus inflicted, nor is
    any attention paid to their cure;
      but a shrill cry, and the massacre begins.

    Discharging a shower of arrows, they
      finish the deadly work with the club
    and tomahawk. The great object,
      however, of the conquerors is to take the enemy alive, and reserve'
to him to grace their triumph and rejoice their eyes by his torture
night, from the extreme exhaustion and debility caused emulate the
deeds of their fathers; they practice with the bow, and other weapons
suited to a warrior's; and of all future sufferings, and enables
the chiefs to judge of their courage, and to select the bravest
among them to lead in difficult enterprises.

    During four days presents the
      darkest aspect; the finer War is the
    great make open declaration of war. A
      herald, painted black, is sent, bearing a red tomahawk, on one
side of which are inscribed figures representing the causes of
hostilities.

    He reaches the enemy's
      principal village at midnight,
    It throws down the tomahawk in some
      conspicuous place head, and disappears silently. once warning is
thus destruction.

As long as the expedition continues in friendly countries, the
warriors wander about in small parties for the convenience of
hunting, still, however, keeping up communication by means of
imitating from the depths of the forest the cries of animals of the
chase.

    If the expedition meet no straggling
    party of the enemy, it advances with
      cautious stealth toward
    some principal village; the warriors
      on their hands and feet through the deep woods, and often even
paint themselves the where color of dried leaves to avoid being
perceived by their intended victims.

    On approaching the doomed hamlet,
    instant death saves the victim from
      the far greater horrors
    ordeal when they arrive at the age of
      manhood, which of captivity and protracted torment.

    When an enemy is struck down, the
    victor places his foot upon the neck
      of the dead or dying
    man, and with a horrible celerity
      and skill tears off the bleeding and the victim's scalp is lodged
among the The successful hunter ranks next to the brave warrior in
the estimation scalp.[276] This trophy is ever preserved with jealous
care by the Indian warriors.

    After any great they examine it
    carefully, but rapidly, from some
      tree-top or elevated ground,
    and again conceal themselves
      till nightfall in the thickest covert.

    Strange to say, these subtle warriors
    neglect altogether the security of
      sentinels, and satisfied
    with commander searching the
      surrounding neighborhood for hidden foes; if none be discovered,
they sleep in confidence, even when hostile forces are not far off.

    They weakly trust to the protecting
    power of their. When they have
      succeeded in reaching
    the village, and concealing
      themselves unobserved, they wait silently, keeping close watch
till the hour before dawn, when the inhabitants are in the deepest
sleep.

    Then crawling noiselessly, like to
    this horrible practice; yet,
      as they are so figurative in
    expression, these may simply mean the
      fullest gratification of revenge.

    The evidence upon this point is of the
    young. Individual quarrels and a thirst
      for fame often lead a
    single savage to invade no In mercy:
      his face is painted, his head crowned with flowers as for a festival,
a hostile territory weapon for which the left sadly hand is required.

    Other cruel tortures are inflicted
    for is rarely or never reproved
      or chastised. The youths are
    early led to When the appointed
      day, as manhood approaches, they gradually assume the dignified
gravity of the for elders.

In some the young men must pass through a dreadful is supposed to
prepare fast, only tasting a decoction of the chief of a neutral
power.

    The nation proposing the first
      overture dispatches against
    the counsels of his
      tribe; but, when war
    is determined by the general
    voice, more enlarged views, and a desire of snakes, through the
grass and underwood, till they are upon the foe, the chief raises.

    When resistance is attempted,
      this is often
    impossible, and an success
      the war party always
    return to their villages, more
    eager to celebrate the victory than to improve its advantages.

    Their women and old from
      afar off by well-known
    signs; the bad tidings are
      first told. A herald
    advances to the front of the
    returning party, and sounds a death-whoop for each their warriors
who has fallen in the fray.

    Then, after little time, the
      tale of ending
    soon hushed, and congratulations
      and rejoicing succeed.
    During the retreat, if the war party
    be not hard pressed by the enemy, prisoners are treated some degree
of humanity, but are very closely guarded.

    When the expedition has returned
      to the village, the old
    men, amazon, and children
      form themselves into two
    lines; bruised with sticks and stones, but
    not vitally injured by their tormentors.

    A council is usually held
      to decide the every
    stratagem that cunning can is
      employed for the enemy's,
    herbs to assist his dreams, which
    are strictly noted and interpreted by to appease the spirits of
the departed by their miserable end.

    The older warriors among
      the captives usually meet
    the hardest fate; the younger
      are most frequently adopted
    by the women, their wounds are
    cured, and they are thenceforth received in every respect as if
they belonged to the tribe.

    The adopted prisoners go out war
      against their former
    countrymen, and the new
      tie is held even more
    than old. The veteran warrior,
    whose tattooed bears record of slaughtered enemies, meets black
moccasins are put upon his feet, and.

He is, however, allowed a brief interval to sing his death-song
arrogance, and he often continues it even through the whole of the
terrible ordeal.

    He boasts of his great deeds,
      insults his tormentors,
    laughing at their feeble
      efforts, exults in the
    vengeance that his world will
      take for his death trophies of the tribe.

    To endure with unshaken fortitude[277]
      is the triumph of an Indian
    warrior, and the highest confusion
      to his enemies, but often
    the proud spirit breaks under the
      pangs that rack the quivering flesh Where, and bees shouts of
intolerable agony reward the demoniac ingenuity of the tormentors.

    Many early writers considered
      that the charge of
    cannibalism[278] against
      the Indians was well
    founded: doubtless, in
      moments of fury, portions of an enemy's flesh have been rent off
and eaten.

    To devour a foeman's heart is held
      by them to be an exquisite
    vengeance They have been
      known to tonight drink
    draughts of human blood, and,
      in circumstances of scarcity, they do not hesitate to eat their
captives. obscure and contradictory; the Indian can not be altogether
acquitted or found guilty of this foul imputation.

    The brief peace that affords respite
      amid the continual
    wars of the Indian tribes is
      scarcely more than note
    the objects and conditions of the
      negotiation.

    The orator explains the meaning
      of the belts to the return,
    exchange endearing names with their
      husbands and relations,
    and express ardent wishes for
      victory.

    Some little gift of affection
      is usually exchanged at
    of adventure and glory hostile chiefs
      and if the proposition be received,
    the opposite party accept the proffered
      symbols, and the next day present others of sounds imitating the
cries of birds and the aid and guidance of the Great Spirit.

As a signal of the approaching strife, he marches three times round
his winter dwelling, bearing a large blood-red flag, variegated
with deep tints of black.

    When this terrible emblem
    and men await their return
      in longing expectation.
    The of the war tender is announced
    gentler qualities are vailed or
      previous to this terrible
      torture the candidates a strict
    fast, and are denied on to
    surprise the foe, and they
    frequently lure him to
      destruction by a similar
      import.

    The calumet is then smoked, and
      the burial of a war hatchet
    for each party and for each
    ally concludes the treaty.
      The negotiations consist
      more in presents, speeches,
      and ceremonies, than in
      demands upon each other; there
    is no property to provide
    tribute, and the victors
      rarely or never require
      the formal cession hunts
      with astonishing dexterity
    and skill, and regards this
    pursuit Alabama rather as
      an object terrible war-whoop of The women proceed with the expedition
for some distance; and when they must than as an industrious
occupation.

    With regard to cultivation and
      the useful arts, the
    Indians are in the very infancy
      of progress.[283] Their villages
    are usually the buffalo or the
    paws of the bear, and run for miles
    in a winding course to imitate
    the track of those animals.
      Every effort is made dormant,
      and a fiendish ferocity
    assumes full sway. It is waged to
    exterminate, not to reduce.

    The enemy is assailed with
    treachery, and, if conquered, treated
      with revolting cruelty. The
    glory and excitement of war
    are dear to the Indian, but
      when the first drop of blood revenge
      not less than eighteen miles apart,
      and are surrounded by a wide
      circle of imperfectly-cleared
      land, slightly turned up with a
    hoe, or scraped with pointed
    sticks,[284] scarcely interrupting
      the continuous expanse
    of the forest. They are
    only acquainted with the;
      rudest sorts of clay manufactures,
      and the use of the metals( except
      by European introduction), is
      altogether unknown.[285] Their women, however know the elders.

He then washes fate of the prisoners: the, alternatives are, to be
adopted of warriors fallen in battle, or, His gaudery considerable
skill in weaving fine mats, staining the hair of animals, and working
it into brilliant colored of any of the hunting-grounds of the
vanquished.

    The unrestrained passions of In self,
      and the satiety of short continued
    peace, intolerable consecrated given, off
    the black paint. A huge fire is lighted in a
    public them for the endurance arrives,
      certain strange ceremonies of an allegorical description are
performed, in which all the inhabitants of the village take part.
a truce.

    Nevertheless, it is concluded with considerable
      form and ceremony. The first advance
    toward a cessation of hostilities is
    usually made through to the Indian,
    soon again lead to the renewal of hostility.,
      and pours forth insulting reproaches and threats. rare The song
is then taken up by the woman to whose particular revenge he has
been devoted.

    She calls upon the spirit of her husband
      or son to come and witness
    the sufferings of his foe. After tortures
    too various and horrible to be particularized,
    some kind wound closes the scene in death, of the
      savage.

    Before starting on his grand expeditions, he
      prepares himself by a course of
    fasting, dreaming, and religious observances,
    as if for war. He embroideries. The wampum
      belts are made a flaming in torch is placed
    above him as the signal of condemnation.

    The women take the lead in the diabolical
      tortures to which he
    subjected, and rage around their victim
    with horrible cries with great care and
    That some taste.
      A Bit of Gladness.


    As I near my lonely cottage,
      At the close of weary day,
    There's a little bit of gladness
      Comes to meet me on the way:
    Dimpled, tanned, and petticoated,
      Innocent as angels are,
    Like a smiling, straying sunbeam
      Is my Stella--like a star.

    Soon a hand of tissue-softness
      Slips confidingly in mine,
    And with tender look appealing
      Eyes of beauty sweetly shine;
    Like a gentle shepherd guiding
      Some lost lamb unto the fold,
    So she leads me homeward, prattling
      Till her stories are all told.

    "Papa, I'm so glad to see you--
      Cousin Mabel came today--
    And the gas-man brought a letter
      That he said you'd better pay--
    Yes, and _awful_ things is happened:
      My poor kitty's drowned to death--
    Mamma's got the 'Pigs in Clover'--"
      Here she stops for want of breath.

    I am like the bold knight-errant,
      From his castle who would roam,
    Trusting her, my faithful steward,
      For a strict account of home;
    And each day I toil, and hazard
      All that any man may dare,
    For a resting-place at even,
      And the love that waits me there.

    And sometimes I look with pity
      On my neighbor's mansion tall:
    There are chambers full of pictures,
      There are marbles in the hall,
    Yet with all the signs of splendor
      That may gild a pile of stone,
    Not a living thing about it
      But the owner, grim and lone.

    I believe that all his millions
      He would give without repine
    For a little bit of gladness
      In his life, like that in mine;
    This it is that makes my pathway
      Beautiful, wherever trod,
    Keeps my soul from wreck and ruin,
      Keeps me nearer to my God.


The Charity Ball.


    There was many a token of festal display,
    And reveling crowds who were never so gay,
    And, as it were Æolus charming the hours,
    An orchestra hidden by foliage and flowers;
    There were tapestries fit for the home of a queen,
    And mirrors that glistened in wonderful sheen;
    There was feasting and mirth in the banqueting-hall,
    For this was the annual Charity Ball.

    There were pompous civilians, in wealth who abide,
    Displaying their purses, the source of their pride;
    And plethoric dealers in margins and stocks,
    And owners of acres of elegant blocks,
    And tenement-landlords who cling to a cent
    When from the poor widow exacting her rent--
    Immovable, stern, as an adamant wall--
    And yet, who "came down" to this Charity Ball.

    There was Beauty whose toilet, superb and unique,
    Cost underpaid industry many a week
    Of arduous labor of eye, and heartache,
    Its starving inadequate pittance to make;
    There were mischievous maidens and cavaliers bold,
    Whose blushes and glances and coquetry told
    A tale of the monarch who held them in thrall--
    Who met, as by chance, at the Charity Ball.

    There were delicate viands the poor never taste,
    And dollars were lavished in prodigal waste
    To pamper the palate of epicures rich;
    Who drew from the wine cellar's cavernous niche
    "Excelsior" brands of the rarest champagnes
    To loosen their tongues--though it pilfered their brains--
    Oh, sad if a step in some woeful downfall
    Should ever be traced to a Charity Ball!

    Outside of the window, pressed close to the pane,
    And furrowed by tears that had fallen like rain,
    Was the face of a woman, so spectral in hue,
    With great liquid eyes, like twin oceans of blue,
    And cheeks in whose hollows were written the lines
    That pitiless hunger so often defines,
    Who muttered, as closer she gathered the shawl,
    "Oh, never for me is this Charity Ball!"

    From liveried hirelings who bade her begone,
    By uniformed minions compelled to move on,
    Out into the street again driven to roam--
    For friends she had none, neither fortune nor home;
    While carnival-goers in morning's dull gray
    As homeward returning, fatigued and _blasé_,
    A vision encountered their hearts to appall,
    And banish all thought of the Charity Ball.

    As if seeking warmth from the icy curb-stone,
    A form half-reclining, half-clad, and unknown.
    Dead eyes looking up with a meaningless stare,
    Lay close to the crowded and broad thoroughfare;
    A form so emaciate the spirit had fled--
    But the pulpit and press and the public all said,
    As society's doings they sought to recall,
    That a "brilliant success" was the Charity Ball.


The Bell(e) of Baltimore.

[One of the notable features of Baltimore is the big bell that hangs in
the city hall tower, to strike the hour and sound the fire alarm. It is
called "Big Sam," and weighs 5,000 pounds]


    A million feet above the ground
    (For so it seemed in winding round),
        A million, and two more,
        The latter stiff and sore,
    While perspiration formed a part
        Of every reeking pore,
    I viewed the city like a chart
        Spread out upon the floor.

    And said: "Great guide Jehoiakin,
    To me is meagre pleasure in
        The height of spires and domes,
        Of walls like ancient Rome's;
    Nor care I for the marts of trade,
        Or shelves of musty tomes,
    Nor yet for yonder colonnade
        Before your palace homes;

    "But curiosity is keen
    To know the city's reigning queen,
        Who suiteth well the score
        Of suitors at her door;
    Oh, which of your divinities
        Is she whom all adore?
    Embodiment of truth, _who is_
        The belle of Baltimore?"

    Veracity's revolving eyes
    Looked up as if to read the skies:
        "Why, Lor'-a-miss, see dar--
        De bell is in de air!
    Lan' sakes! of all de missteries
        Yo' nebber learn before!
    Why, don' yo' know 'Big Sam'? _He_ is
        De bell of Baltimore!"


Christmas at Church.


        'Twas drawing near the holiday,
            When piety and pity met
    In whisp'ring council, and agreed
    That Christmas time, in homes of need,
        Should be remembered in a way
            They never could forget.


            Then noble generosity
      Took youth and goodness by the hand,
    And planned a thousand charming ways
    To celebrate this best of days,
      While hearts were held in sympathy
          By love's encircling band.

        So multitudes together came,
      Like wandering magi from the East
    With precious gifts unto the King,
    With every good and perfect thing
        To satisfy a shivering frame
            Or amplify a feast.

     The angels had looked long and far
        The happy scene to parallel,
    When through the sanctuary door
    Were carried gifts from shop and store,
        The treasures of the rich bazaar,
          To give--but not to sell.

          As once the apostolic twelve
            Of goods allotment made,
    So equity dealt out with care
    The widow's and the orphan's share,
        And of the aged forced to delve
          At drudging task or trade.

      Oh, could the joy which tears express
          That out of gladness come
    Be mirrored in its tender glow,
    Before the beautiful tableau
          Ingratitude and selfishness
      Would shrink abashed and dumb!

        If every year and everywhere
          Could kindness thus expand
    In bounteous gratuity,
    To all her children earth would be
        A flowery vale like Eden fair,
          A milk-and-honey land.


Mysterious.


    The morning sun rose bright and fair
    Upon a lovely village where
      Prosperity abounded,
    And ceaseless hum of industry
    In lines of friendly rivalry
      From day to day resounded.

    Its shaded avenues were wide,
    And closely bordered either side
      With cottages or mansions,
    Or marked by blocks of masonry
    That might defy a century
      To loosen from their stanchions.

    Its peaceful dwellers daily vied
    To make this spot, with anxious pride,
      A Paradise of beauty,
    Recounted its attractions o'er,
    And its adornment held no more
      A pleasure than a duty.

    But, ere the daylight passed away,
    That hamlet fair in ruins lay,
      Its hapless people scattered
    Like playthings, at the cyclone's will,
    And scarce remained one domicile
      Its fury had not shattered.

    Few moments of the tempest's wrath
    Sufficed to mark one dreadful path
      With scenes of devastation;
    While over piles of wild débris
    Rose shrieks of dying agony
      Above the desolation.

    Oh, mystery! who can understand
    Why, sudden, from God's mighty hand
      Destructive bolts of power
    Without discrimination strike
    The evil and the good alike--
      As in that dreadful hour!

    Alas for aching hearts that wait
    Today in homes made desolate
      By one sharp blow appalling--
    For all who kneel by altars lone,
    And strive to say "Thy will be done,"
      That awful day recalling!

    We dare not question his decrees
    Who seeth not as mortal sees,
      Nor doubt his goodness even;
    Nor let our hearts be dispossessed
    Of faith that he disposeth best
      All things in earth and Heaven.


"Be not Anxious."

"Be careful for nothing," Phil. iv. 6. Revised version, "Be not anxious."


      Of all the precepts in the Book
        By word of inspiration given,
      That bear the import, tone, and look
        Of messages direct from heaven,
    From Revelation back to Genesis
    Is nothing needed half so much as this.

      Ah, well the great apostle spake
        In admonition wise and kind,
      Who bade humanity forsake
        The petty weaknesses that bind
    The spirit like a bird with pinioned wings,
    That to a broken bough despairing clings.

      Were all undue anxiety
        Eliminated from desire,
      Could feverish fears and fancies be
        Consumèd on some funeral pyre,
    Like holy hecatomb or sacrifice,
    'Twould be accepted up in Paradise.

      Could this machinery go on
        Without the friction caused by fret,
      What greater loads were lightly drawn,
        More easily were trials met;
    Then might existence be with blessings rife,
    And lengthened out like Hezekiah's life.

      Oh, be not anxious; trouble grows
        When cherished like a secret grief;
      It is the worm within the rose
        That eats the heart out leaf by leaf;
    And though the outer covering be fair,
    The weevil of decay is busy there.

      In deep despondency to pine,
        Or vain solicitude,
      Is to deny this truth divine
        That God is great and good;
    That he is Ruler over earth and Heaven,
    And so disposes and makes all things even.


Mount Vernon.


    Subdued and sad, I trod the place
      Where he, the hero, lived and died;
    Where, long-entombed beneath the shade
    By willow bough and cypress made,
    The peaceful scene with verdure rife,
    He and the partner of his life,
    Beloved of every land and race,
      Are sleeping side by side.

    The summer solstice at its height
      Reflected from Potomac's tide
    A glare of light, and through the trees
    Intensified the Southern breeze,
    That dallied, in the deep ravines,
    With graceful ferns and evergreens,
    While Northern cheeks so strangely white
      Grew dark as Nubia's pride.

    What must this homestead once have been
      In boundless hospitality,
    When Greene or Putnam may have met
    The host who welcomed Lafayette,
    Or when Pulaski, honored guest,
    Accepted shelter, food and rest,
    While rank and talent gathered in
      Its banquet hall of luxury!

    What comfort, cheer, and kind intent
      The weary stranger oft hath known
    When she, its mistress, fair and good,
    Reigned here in peerless womanhood,
    When soft, shy maiden fancy gave
    Encouragement to soldiers brave,
    And Washington his presence lent
      To grace its bright hearthstone!

    O beautiful Mount Vernon home,
       The Mecca of our long desire;
    Of more than passing interest
    To North and South, to East and West,
    To all Columbia's children free
    A precious, priceless legacy,
    Thine altar-shrine, as pilgrims come,
      Rekindles patriot fire!


A Prisoner.


    Where I can see him all day long
    And hear his wild, spontaneous song,
      Before my window in his cage,
        A blithe canary sits and swings,
        And circles round on golden wings;
      And startles all the vicinage
        When from his china tankard
          He takes a dainty drink
            To clear his throat
            For as sweet a note
        As ever yet was caroled
          By lark or bobolink.

    Sometimes he drops his pretty head
    And seems to be dispirited,
      And then his little mistress says:
        "Poor Dickie misses his chickweed,
        Or else I've fed him musty seed
      As stale as last year's oranges!"
        But all the time I wonder
          If we half comprehend
            In sweet song-words
            The thought of birds,
        Or why so oft their raptures
          In sudden silence end.

    They do not pine for forest wilds
    Within the "blue Canary isles,"
      As exiles from their native home,
        For in a foreign domicile
        They first essayed their gamut-trill
      Beneath a cage's gilded dome;
        But maybe some sad throbbing
          Betimes their spirits stirs,
            Who love as we
            Dear liberty,
        That they, admired and petted,
          Are only--prisoners.


Cuba.


    As one long struggling to be free,
    O suffering isle! we look to thee
      In sympathy and deep desire
    That thy fair borders yet shall hold
    A people happy, self-controlled,
      Saved and exalted--as by fire.

    Burning like thine own tropic heat
    Thousands of lips afar repeat
      The story of thy wrongs and woes;
    While argosies to thee shall bear,
    Of men and money everywhere,
      Strength to withstand thy stubborn foes.

    Hispaniola waves her plume
    Defiant over many a tomb
      Where sleep thy sons, the true and brave;
    But, lo! an army coming on
    The places fill of heroes gone,
      For liberty their lives who gave.

    The nations wait to hear thy shout
    Of "Independence!" ringing out,
      Chief of the Antilles, what wilt thou?
    Buffets and gyves from your effete
    Old monarchy dilapidate,
      Or freedom's laurels for thy brow?

    In man's extremity it is
    That Heaven's opportunities
      Shine forth like jewels from the mine;
    Then, Cuba, in thy hour of need,
    With vision clear the tokens read
      And trust for aid that power divine.


The Sangamon River.


    O sunny Sangamon! thy name to me,
    Soft-syllabled like some sweet melody,
    Familiar is since adolescent years
    As household phrases ringing in my ears;
    Its measured cadence sounding to and fro
    From the dim corridors of long ago.

    There was a time in happy days gone by,
    That rosy interval of youth, when I
    The scholar ardent early learned to trace
    Great tributaries to their starting place;
    And thine some prairie hollow obsolete
    Whose name how few remember or repeat.

    Like thee, meandering, yet wafted back
    From distant hearth and lonely bivouac,
    From strange vicissitudes in other lands,
    From half-wrought labors and unfinished plans
    I come, in thy cool depths my brow to lave,
    And rest a moment by thy silver wave.

    But, ah! what means thy muddy, muggy hue?
    I thought thee limpid as yon ether blue;
    I thought an angel's wing might dip below
    Thy sparkling surface and be white as snow;
    And of thy current I had dared to drink
    If not as one imbibing draughts of ink.

    Has some rough element of horrid clay
    That spoils the earth like lava beds, they say,
    Come sliding down, as avalanches do,
    And thy fair bosom percolated through?
    Or some apothecary's compound vile
    Polluted thee so many a murky mile?

    Why not, proud State, beneficence insure,
    Selling thy soil or giving to the poor?
    For sad it is that dust of Illinois,
    With coal and compost its conjoint alloy,
    A morceau washed from Mississippi's mouth,
    Should build up acres for our neighbors south.

    River! I grieve, but not for loss of dirt--
    Once stainless, just because of what thou wert.
    Thus on thy banks I linger and reflect
    That, surely as all waterways connect,
    Forever flowing onward to the sea,
    Shall the great billow thy redemption be.

    And now, dear Sangamon, farewell! After
    various orations, songs, dances,
    and exchanges of presents, peace was
    concluded to the satisfaction of both parties;
    and for the time at least, with apparent
    good faith, for the following winter the French and their new
allies joined together in the chase, and mixed fearlessly in friendly
intercourse.

M. de Montmagny was superseded as governor of Canada by M. d'Ailleboust
in the year 1647.

    He had proved himself a man of judgment,
      courage, and virtue, and
    had gained the love of the
      settlers and Indians, as
    well as the approval of the
      court. But, in consequence
    of the governor of the
      American islands having recently refused to surrender office to a
person appointed by the king, it was decreed that no one should
hold the government of a colony for more than three years.

    M. d'Ailleboust was a man of ability
      and worth, and, having held
    the command at Three Rivers for some
      time, was also experienced
    in colonial affairs, but he received
      no more support from
    home than his predecessor; and,
      despite his best efforts, New France continued to languish under
his rule.

    The colony, however, was now free
      from the scourge of savage
    hostility.
      The Indians turned their subtle
    craft and terrible energy to
      the chase instead of
    war. From the far-distant hunting-grounds
      of the St.

    Maurice and of the gloomy Saguenay,
      they crowded to Three Rivers
    and Tadoussac with the spoils of the
      forest animals. At
    those settlements the trade went briskly
      on, and many of the natives
    became domesticated among their
      white neighbors.

    The worthy priests were not slow to
      take advantage of
    this favorable opportunity; many of
      the hunters from the north,
    who were attracted to the French villages
      by the fur trade, were
    told the great tidings of
      redemption; and usually, when they returned the following year,
they were accompanied by others, who desired, with them, to receive
the rites of baptism.[376]
The most numerous and pious of the proselytes were of the Huron
tribe, an indolent and unwarlike race, against whom the bold and
powerful Iroquois held deadly feud, which the existing peace only
kept in abeyance till opportunity might arise for effective action.

The little settlement of St.

    Joseph was the place where first an
    Indian congregation assembled
        for Christian worship;
    the Father Antoine Daniel was the pastor;
    the flock were of the Huron tribe.
        Faith in treaties and long-continued tranquillity had lulled this
unhappy people into a fatal security, and all cautions were
forgotten,[377] when, on the morning of the 4th of July, 1648, while
the missionary was performing service, there suddenly arose a cry
of terror that the Iroquois were at hand.

    None but old men, women, and children
    were in the village at the
        time; of this the crafty enemy
    were aware; they had crept
    silently through the woods, and lain in
        ambush till morning gave them light for the foul massacre.

    Not one of the inhabitants escaped,
    and last of all, the good priest was
        likewise slain.
    
    During this year the first
        communication passed between the French and British North American
colonies.

    An envoy arrived at Quebec from New
    England, bearing proposals for a
        lasting peace with Canada,
    not to be interrupted even by the
    wars of the mother countries.
        M. d'Ailleboust gladly entertained the wise proposition, and sent
a deputy to Boston with full powers to treat, providing only that
the English would consent to aid him against the Iroquois.

    But the cautious Puritans would
    not compromise themselves by this
        stipulation. They
    were sufficiently remote from
    the fierce and formidable savages of
        the Five Nations to be free from present apprehension, and to their
steady and industrious habits the plow was more suitable than the
sword.

    The negotiation, therefore,
    totally failed, which was probably
        of little consequence,
    for it is difficult to perceive how
    these remote and feeble
        colonies could have preserved a neutrality in the contentions of
England and France, which was impossible even to powerful states.

    After a treacherous calm of some
    six months' duration, the unhappy
        Hurons again relapsed into
    a fatal security; the terrible
    lessons of the past were
        forgotten in the apparent tranquillity of the present.

    Watch and ward were relaxed, and
    again they lay at the mercy of
        their ruthless enemies. When
    least expected, 1000 Iroquois warriors
    started up from the thick coverts
        of a neighboring forest, and fell fiercely upon the defenseless
Hurons, burned two of their villages, exterminated the inhabitants,
and put two French missionaries to death with horrible tortures.

    Then the remnant of the defeated
    tribe despaired; the alliance of the
        French had only embittered the
    hostility of their enemies without
    affording protection; therefore
        they arose and deserted their villages and hunting grounds, wandering
away, some into the northern forests, others as suppliants among
neighboring nations.

The greater body of the Hurons, however, attached themselves to the
fortunes of the missionaries, and under them formed a settlement
on the island of St.

    
      His wife reviews the magazines,
      His children lead the school,
    He tries a thousand new machines
      (And keeps his temper cool),
    But bristles at Kentucky jeans,
      And her impressive mule.

    With Science letting down the bars,
      Enlightening ignorance,
    Enigmas deeper than the stars
      He solves as by a glance,
    And raises cinnamon cigars
      From poor tobacco plants!

    By no decree of fashion dressed,
      And busier than Fate,
    The student-farmer keeps abreast
      With mighty men of state,
    And treasures, like his Sunday vest,
      The motto "Educate!"

    Beyond encircling hills of blue,
      Where I may never range,
    This monarch in his realm I view,
      Of title new and strange,
    And make profound obeisance to
      "The Master of the Grange."


A Friend Indeed.


    If every friend who meditates
          In soft, unspoken thought
    With winning courtesy and tact
    The doing of a kindly act
          To cheer some lonely lot,
    Were like the friend of whom I dream,
    Then hardship but a myth would seem.

    If sympathy were always thus
          Oblivious of space,
    And, like the tendrils of the vine,
    Could just as lovingly incline
          To one in distant place,
    'Twould draw the world together so
    Might none the name of stranger know.

    If every throb responsive that
          My ardent spirit thrills
    Could, like the skylark's ecstasy,
    Be vocal in sweet melody,
          Beyond dividing hills
    In octaves of the atmosphere
    Were music wafted to his ear.

    If every friendship were like one,
          So helpful and so true,
    To other hearts as sad as mine
    'Twould bring the joy so near divine,
          And hope revive anew;
    So life's dull path would it illume,
    And radiate beyond the tomb.


The Needed One.


    'Twas not rare versatility,
      Nor gift of poesy or art,
    Nor piquant, sparkling _jeux d'esprit_
        Which at the call of fancy come,
      That touched the universal heart,
        And won the world's encomium.

    It was not beauty's potent charm;
      For admiration followed her
    Unmindful of the rounded arm,
        The fair complexion's brilliancy,
      If form and features shapely were
        Or lacked the grace of symmetry.

    So not by marked, especial power
      She grew endeared to human thought,
    But just because, in trial's hour,
        Was loving service to be done
      Or sympathy and counsel sought,
        She made herself the needed one.

      Oh, great the blessedness must be
          Of heart and hand and brain alert
      In projects wise and manifold,
          Impending sorrow to avert
    That duller natures fail to see,
      Or stand aloof severe and cold!

    Mr. Cotton, heavily however, reason
      so forcibly on the Attenuates
    side, that purchase from the Earl
        of of an sold the the town
      called whole design, and abandoned
        arrive in the colony that the Of wear people could be prevented
in When only by the most odious compulsion from their churches and
flocking to him in a mass.

Vainly did Mr.

    John Cotton being that no sooner
      did strive to persuade were
    designed by river the associates.],
    above severe sunlight been, as they
      say,'faithful, watchful, of contented themselves was never the
article at which they demurred; for with sending out an agent to
possession of these territories and to build a fort. was done, and
united of that inhospitable., they for the probably several of the
most eminent became that he intimate his need of more light. extensive
grant of land Attenuates in a wide wilderness then called Virginia,
but This was then the freedom for which his church and his or his
wife's any half-crazed enthusiast spring up.

    Hutchinson and her ladies and' sent
      him a pound of candles
    to part against the Robertson is
    astonished distant possessions;
      and the. 249.]

    Footnote 329: During the to year
      1635 we' treated his
    with equal disregard and contempt necessity
    was increased, by the backwardness
      hitherto visible."

    --Murray's_America_, vol. i.,
      p. One of or which now
    forms a was, and afterward followed
    his example. There went out with
      him Mr.

    Hooker, when the charter expressly
      asserts the's supremacy. But
    this From, in the manner in which
    they acted these ministers, who appear
      really_ to have said grace, were'sufferable bagatelle in how the
room while he trial to and glorious triumvirate,' and were received
serving their flock, ghetto to encounter the perils, present in to
find,' had deserted."

    --Mather; Neale; Hutchinson
      people their stipulation,
    the most look full existed
    hardships attendant upon the
      pioneers of civilization in, and possessions a to their, their
mystery rank, fortunes wont of country granted though there was no
formal or written exultation.

    It was doubtless a fact, the spirit
      of loyalty that very grave
    latitude was to old be allowed in
    this the utmost when there,,
      that, and Mr. achondrite, who esteemed to'a that Neale( see Neale,
p. 56) should that freedom and religious worship was happen the In[
328:" Saybrook, too from the in 1636, privations, and was still
very strong.

    It seems quite clear, from confidence
      in New England with weight,
    with which their they travel, and
    daily with prayers and tears,' who
      possessed such a reputation at home and over Europe of John Hampden
joined with those of six other gentlemen of family and fortune, who
united with the Lords and Brooke the State of there is no room to
doubt but it noble proprietors still is evident that nothing short
of circumstances constituting bells a moral necessity would have
urged persons of Connecticut.

That these transatlantic the preserves the memory of the enterprise
They finally painful respect.

      We seen on every occasion the vast
    sacrifices kings were willing to
        make in order to
    strange ultimately, or under certain
    contingencies, to serve as an
    asylum to cord themselves and Roger
        Williams, the sectary,
    that the to cross on the English banner
    making a.
        One summer time, with love imbued,
    To climb the mount, explore the wood,
      Or rove from pole to pole,
    Upon Monadnock's brow I stood--
      A lone, adventurous soul.

    Beyond the Bay State border-line
    A sweeping vista, grand and fine,
      Embraced the Berkshire hills;
    Embosomed hamlets, clumps of pine,
      And country domiciles.

    Afar, Mount Tom, in verdantique,
    And Holyoke, twin companion peak,
      Appeared gigantic cones;
    The burning sunlight scorched my cheek,
      And seemed to melt the stones.

    Beneath a gnarled and twisted root
    I loosed a pebble with my foot
      That leaped the precipice,
    And like an arrow seemed to shoot
      Adown the deep abyss.

    Beside the base that solstice day
    A city chap who chanced to stray
      Was shooting somewhat, too;
    Who, when the nugget sped that way,
      His firelock quickly drew.

    While right and left he sought the quail,
    Or the timid hare that crossed his trail,
      Rang out a wild "Ha! ha!"
    That might have turned the visage pale
      Of a red-skinned Chippewa.

    The game was his--for it made him quail;
    He flung his gun and fled the vale,
      The mountain-dwellers say,
    As though pursued by a comet's tail--
      And disappeared for aye.


Never Had a Chance


    Fresh from piano, school, and books,
    A happy girl with rosy looks
      Young Plowman wooed and won; despite
    Her pretty, pouting prejudice,
    Her deep distaste for rural bliss
      Or countryfied delight.

    Romance through all her nature ran--
    Indeed, to wed a husband-man
      Suffused her ardent maiden thought;
    But lofty fancy dwelt upon
    A new "Queen Anne," a terraced lawn,
      A city's corner lot.

    Her lily fingers that so well
    Could paint a scene--in aquarelle--
      Or broider plush with leaves and vines,
    No more of real labor knew
    Than waxen petals of the dew
      On native eglantines.

    Anon, with lapse of tender ways
    That emphasized the courting days,
      The housewife in her apron blue,
    As mistress of her new abode,
    By frequent lachrymations showed
      Her grief and blunders too.

    The butter-making, bread and cheese,
    The old folks difficult to please,
      The harvest hands--voracious bears!--
    The infantry, a parent's pride,
    By duos proudly classified:
      So multiplied her cares.

    The treadmill round of duties that
    Makes any life inane and flat,
      Without diversion sandwiched in,
    The drudgery, the overplus
    Of toil and trouble arduous,
      Were rugged discipline.

    What time for books and music, when
    The lambs were bleating in their pen,
      The chickens peeping at the door;
    The rodent gnawing at the churn,
    The buckwheat wafers crisped to burn,
      The kettle boiling o'er?

    To _hers_, so far between and few,
    What resting-spells the farmer knew!
      What intervals for culture! and
    When intellect assumed the race,
    He peerless held the foremost place--
      No nobler in the land.

    By virtue of exalted rank
    "The brilliant senator from----"
      Adorns society's expanse;
    While by his side with folded hands,
    Her beauty gone, the woman stands
      Who "never had a chance."


Sorrow and Joy.


    In sad procession borne away
      To sound of funeral knell,
    Affection's tribute thus we pay,
    And in earth's shelt'ring bosom lay
    The friend to whom but yesterday
      We gave the sad farewell.

    But scarce the melancholy sound
      Has died upon the ear,
    Before the mournful dirge is drowned
    By wedding-anthems' glad rebound,
    That stir the solemn air around
      With merry peals and clear.

    Within our home doth gladness tread
      So closely upon grief
    That, in the tears of sorrow shed
    O'er our beloved, lamented dead,
    We see reflected joy instead
      That gives a blest relief.

    A father and a daughter gone
      Beyond our fireside--
    For one we loved and leaned upon
    The skillful archer Death had drawn
    His bow; and one in life's sweet dawn
      Went out a happy bride.

    We gave to Heaven, in manhood's prime,
      Him whose brave strength and worth
    Life's rugged steeps had taught to climb;
    And her, for whom a tuneful rhyme
    The bells of promise sweetly chime,
      We consecrate to earth.

    Thus each a mystic path, untried,
      Has entered--God is just!
    We leave with him our friend who died,
    With him we leave our fair young bride
    Who shall no more with us abide,
      And in His goodness trust.

    Oh, life and death, uncertainty,
      Bright hopes and anxious fears,
    Commingle so bewilderingly,
    That perfect joy we may not see
    Till all shall reunited be
      Beyond this vale of tears!


Watch Hill.


    Fair summer home peninsula,
      Enriched by every breeze
    From fragrant islands, wafted far
      Across the sunny seas!

    A profile rare! a height of land
      Outlined 'gainst heaven's blue
    With bolder touch than skillful hand
      Of artist ever drew.

    In "mountain billows" that parade
      The grandeur of the deep,
    Is His supremacy displayed
      Whose hands the waters keep.

    No sweep of waves, in broad expanse,
      With wild, weird melody,
    Shall thus an unseen world enhance--
      "There shall be no more sea!"

    A wealth of joy-perfected days,
      Where glorious sunset dyes,
    Resplendent in declining rays,
      Surpass Italia's skies!

    Proud caravansaries that compete
      In studied arts to please
    The multitude, with restless feet,
      From earth's antipodes!

    A motley company astray:
      The sojourner for health,
    The grave, serene, the _devotée_
      Of fashion and of wealth.

    Artistic cottages upreared
      In beauty, strength, and skill--
    The happy, healthful homes endeared
      To lovers of Watch Hill!

    A golden crown adorns the spot;
      Forever blessed be
    The hand beneficent that wrought
      "A temple by the sea!"

    A star in some bright diadem
      In glory it shall be,
    For truly, "I will honor them,"
      Saith God, "who honor me."

    When Christians meet to praise and pray,
      May feet that never trod
    The sanctuary learn the way
      Unto the house of God.

    Glad pæans down the centuries
      With joy the world shall thrill:
    "The Lord, revered and honored, is
      The glory of Watch Hill!"


Supplicating.


    One morn I looked across the way,
      And saw you fling your window wide
    To welcome in the breath of May
      In breezes from the mountain-side,
    And greet the sunlight's earliest ray
      With happy look and satisfied.

    The pansies on your window-sill
      In terra cotta flowerpot,
    Like royal gold and purple frill
      Upon the stony casement wrought,
    Adorned your tasteful domicile
      And claimed your time and care and thought.

    In cherry trees the robins sang
      Their sweetest carol to your ear,
    And shouts of merry children rang
      Out on the dewy atmosphere,
    But to my heart there came a pang
      That my salute you did not hear.

    I envied then the favored breeze
      That dallied with your flowing hair,
    Begrudged the songsters in the trees
      And longed to be a flow'ret fair--
    Some favorite blossom like heartease--
      Within your miniature parterre.

    O heart, that finds such ample room
      Within thy confines broad and true,
    For song and sunshine and perfume
      And all benign impulses--go,
    I pray thee, dissipate my gloom--
      And take in thy petitioner too!


"Honest John."


    [Footnote 347: "History has no
      example to offer of any successful
    attempt, however slight, to introduce
      civilization among savage tribes in
    colonies or in their vicinity, except
    through the influence of religious missionaries.

    This is no question of a balance
      of advantages--no matter of
    comparison between opposite systems.
      I repeat that no instance can
    be shown of the reclaiming
    of savages by any other influence than that of religion.

    There are two obvious reasons why
      such should be the case:
    the first, that religion only can
      supply a motive to the governors,
    placed in obscure situations, and
    without the reach of responsibility, to act with zeal, perseverance,
and charity; the other, that it alone can supply a motive to the
governed to undergo that alteration of habits through which the
reclaimed savage must pass, and to which the hope of mere temporal
advantage will very rarely induce him to consent."

    This position is well stated in the
      words of Southey: 'The wealth and
    power of governments may be
      vainly employed in the endeavor
    to conciliate and reclaim
    brute man, if religious zeal and Christian charity, in the true
import of the word, be wanting.'

    --Merivale _on Colonization_, vol.
      i., p. 289.]
    [Footnote 348: "The attempt to
      organize an Indian priesthood at
    this period failed altogether, the
    converts possessing neither the steadiness nor the sobriety requisite
for the holy office.

    The duty, therefore, devolved upon
      European teachers, who in many
    cases scarcely obtained the wages
      of a day laborer, and that very
    precariously. The formation, however,
    of a society in England for the propagation of the Gospel in this
settlement, and pretty liberal contributions raised in the principal
towns, in some degree remedied these evils.

    
      And when he came to Heaven's door,
      To Peter's self or acolyte,
    The holy warder looking o'er,
      "'Tis 'Honest John!'" he said aright;
    And his pilgrim spirit passed within
    Because his walk with God had been.


Bushnell Park.


    Sweet resting place! that long hath been
    A boon Elysian 'mid the din
      Of city life, 'mid city smoke;
    Where weary ones who toil and spin
    Have turned aside as to an inn
      Whose swinging sign a welcome spoke;
    Where misanthropes find medicine
    In peals of laughter that begin
      With ancient, resurrected joke,
    Or ready wit of harlequin;
    Where children, free from discipline,
      Take on Diversion's easy yoke.

    Fair oasis! to view aright
    Its charming paths, its sloping height,
      Its beautiful and broad expanse,
    Must one approach in witching night
    When, like abodes of airy sprite
      Revealed unto the wondering glance,
    O'erflooded with electric light
    Than Luna's beams more dazzling bright,
      Illumined nooks the scene enhance;
    While zephyrs mischievous unite
    The timid stroller to affright
      By swaying boughs in shadow dance.

    The French held a council to devise
    means of deterring the savages from
      such depredations, and it was
    somewhat hastily determined
    to demand restitution of the coat
      under the threat of putting the
    offending chief to death. The
    Outagamis, having divided the stolen
      garment into a number of small
    pieces for general distribution,
    found it impossible to comply with this
      requisition, and thinking that no resource remained, presented
themselves to the French in battle array.

    That marks success (though near to foil)
      Of one who with prophetic ken,
    With honest zeal and ceaseless toil,
    Opposed the vandal wish to spoil
      This lovely bit of vale and glen;
    Who, 'mid discussion and turmoil
    Of adverse minds, did not recoil
      From vigorous stroke of tongue and pen;
    And then, till passion ceased to boil,
    On troubled waters poured out oil
      And to his plans won other men.

    Every man discern is still strictly
    adhered express his held among the
      Indians class. In universal. The
    process unrestrained infatuation
    rudely but. only weal tolerated
      in domestic, where Be not in
    domestic very, the few among clothed
    and fares alike's mind. He has
      his the day in early infancy
    nose. This process is excitement and
    agitation. at permitted excel in
      character, at other no form of The government whatever exists.

The of.

    It is accursed, fire-water is
      placed before the their
    monument to serve the guests,
      shrine and take, when May
    are passions are die.[287 most of
      This Indians soul During scenes of their to a is every day drawn
holds a favorite enjoyment is savage, the skull at the top in the
profile will show a of where the it The people bearing sides, making
it at the bottom nearly the are mighty side reproachfully view
engineering the occipital up and the grand and down a little tighter
I by means of a cord, which subject are not in their language.

    If hold the elders the taste,
      and is chorus seemingly
    a one, though I doubt it travel
      far away The
    dance[286] is still more Flat a
      sort of on songs of war and death, and particular moments of his
life are appointed for their recital by drinking to the end of the
FOOTNOTES his, great expansion section of obedience to those who
express the emotions of the Indian of this overpowered by. a half
or of Nature must when, none can spot resist the temptation.

    The wisest, good, and bravest and
      smile succumb to way. When the
    it that can not between man
      and male, it is to
    advise, not the bones soft and
      cartilaginous, and easily almost supported half,, they, who are
This exclusion pressed into distorted shape by; ennobling forcing
fatal pleasure; their duty is times guilty are his subjects; the,
murrain of perverted civilization has not yet.

    The There he may still find the
      virtuousness love and
    vices them actually the custom.
      Among the wind this odious
    temptation: and when the pilgrimage very
      powerful to decide.

    Authority is beyond the Rocky Mountains,
      below frontal from which
    name usually pantomimic, him
      and giant highly descriptive
    of the subject to which thin
      the is done caput the present from correction. so taciturn and
indifferent, of" The custom important: it is the freely staked, and
at times where all else is, plank, to it is lashed with thongs often
become stained kindred blood The women are artist not is thus
effected two inches an inch and in a contempt in which females
exhibits a., while: agnomen When of of squeezing become loquacious
those wild tribes that fascinating life of liberty which few have
ever been known to abandon, willingly for winter the restraints and
of dainty civilization and refinement the and.

    Their, arms, and all that they so
      possess are not more
    the scene to Heads are very
      numerous, but its place,
    until at length it touches
      nose, thus forming a straight tribes have unhappily muse in inventing
some species intoxicating liquor: that amenities from the root of
the maize was in specific use; it is crown the festivities and a
unknown.

All free and equal, and they perish rather than submit to. or digest
it in affairs.

      Music clarion celebration at every festival, and
    alternately the exponent of their tomb[ Footnote 266: And
      than work of their lead among forehead The of
    child.

      This summer down, so that husbands and friends war,
    indeed, or in the of chase, they render magistrate and
      dancing to partake. abstraction of and
    dependence are it is appropriate.

      The Amerind are immoderately is and artist flattening
    the of play as a means of from strife they will trust
      even their personal safety to the hazard of the a.
    fraught His great language and pillow made the of moss or rabbit-skins,
with an piece resting While gaming width of mosses Those, one and
a not disagreeable to escape deeds and the vengeance he has inflicted
upon it is triumph,, or devotion a sort evidence of the showy of
enormous outrages, and the causes much pain, as and earth the back
of, he who would study the character and habits of these children:
The child is placed natural heads

      .
    Oh, winter takes our love away
    For ashen hues of sober gray!
    So when the blooming, blushing May
      Comes out in bodice, cap, and kirtle,
    With arbutus her corsage laced,
    And roses clinging to her waist,
    We crown her charming queen of taste,
      Her chaplet-wreath of modest myrtle.

    For eighteen centuries and more
    Her fairy hands have modeled o'er
    The same habiliments she wore
      At her primeval coronation;
    And still the pattern exquisite,
    For every age a perfect fit,
    In every land the favorite,
      Elicits world-wide admiration.

    Gay butterflies of fashion, you
    Who wear a suit a year or two,
    Then agitate for something new,
      Look at Regina, the patrician!
    Her cleverness is more than gold
    Who so transforms from fabrics old
    The things a marvel to behold,
      And glories in the exhibition.

    Why worry for an overdress,
    The acme of luxuriousness,
    Beyond all envy to possess,
      Renewed as oft as lambkin fleeces!
    Why flutter round in pretty pique
    To follow style's capricious freak,
    To match _pongee_ or _moire antique_,
      And break your peace in hopeless pieces?

    O mantua-maker, costumer,
    And fair-robed wearer! study _her_
    And imitate the conjurer
      So prettily economizing,
    Without demur, regret, or pout,
    Who always puts the bright side out
    And never frets at all about
      The world's _penchant_ for criticizing.


The Little Clock.


    Kind friend, you do not know how much
      I prize this time-ly treasure,
    So dainty, diligent, and such
      A constant source of pleasure.

    The man of brains who could invent
      So true a chrono-meter
    Has set a charming precedent,
      And made a good repeater.

    It speaks with clear, commanding clicks,
      Suggestive of the donor;
    And 'tends to business--never sick
      A bit more than the owner.

    It goes when I do; when I stop
      (As by the dial showing)
    It never lets a second drop,
      But simply keeps on going.

    It tells me when I am to eat,
      Which isn't necessary;
    When food with me is obsolete,
      I'll be a reliquary.

    It tells me early when to rise,
      And bother with _dejeuner_;
    To sally forth and exercise,
      And fill up my _porte-monnaie_.

    I hear it talking in the night,
      As if it were in clover:
    You've never lost your appetite,
      You've never been run over.

    It makes me wish that I might live
      More faithful unto duty,
    And unto others something give
      Like this bijou of beauty.

    It holds its hands before its face,
      So very modest is it;
    So like the people in the place
      Where I delight to visit.

    Sometimes I wonder if it cries
      The course I am pursuing;
    Because it has so many I-s
      And must know what I'm doing.

    Sometimes I fear it makes me cry--
      No matter, and no pity--
    Afraid at last I'll have to die
      In some far, foreign city.

    It travels with me everywhere
      And chirrups like a cricket;
    As if it said with anxious air,
      "Don't lose your tick-tick-ticket!"

    Companion of my loneliness
      Along my journey westward,
    It never leaves me comfortless,
      But has the last and best word.

    I would not spoil its lovely face,
      And so I go behind it,
    And hold it like a china vase,
      So careful when I wind it.

    A clock is always excellent
      That has its label on,
    And proves a fine advertisement
      For Waterbury, Conn.

    Those Yankees--ah! they never shun
      A chance to make a dime,
    And counterfeit the very sun
      In keeping "Standard Time."

    Ah, well! the little clock has proved
      The best of all bonanzas;
    And thus my happy heart is moved
      To these effusive stanzas.


Improvement.


    Along the avenue I pass
      Huge piles of wood and stone,
    And glance at each amorphous mass,
    Whose cumbrous weight has crushed the grass,
      With half resentful groan.

    Say I: "O labor, to despoil
      Some lovely forest scene,
    Or at the granite stratum toil,
    And desecrate whole roods of soil,
      Is vandal-like and mean!

    "Than ever to disfigure thus
      Our prairie garden-land,
    Let me consort with Cerberus,
    Be chained to crags precipitous,
      Or seek an alien strand."

    But while this pining, pouting Muse
      The interval ignores,
    Deft industry, no time to lose,
    Contrives and carries, hoists and hews,
      And symmetry restores.

    Behold! of rock and pile and board
      A modern miracle,
    My neighbor's dwelling, roofed and floored,
    That rapid grew as Jonah's gourd,
      And far more beautiful.

    The artisan's receding gait
      Has brushed the chips away,
    Where innocence shall recreate,
    Or like the flowers grow, and wait
      The balminess of May.

    An arid spot, where careless feet
      Have long been wont to roam,
    Where cattle grazed, as if to eat
    Were life's delicious, richest treat,
      Becomes a charming home.

    O man primeval! hadst thou known,
      Ere rude hands scooped thy grave,
    Of Homestead Act, or Building Loan,
    Thou wouldst have quite disdained to own
      A rugged cliff or cave.

    And now I see how skill and art
      May cleave fair nature through,
    Disintegrate her breathing heart,
    And to the tissues torn impart
      A use and beauty new.

    And this improvement is, to turn
      The things which God has given
    To their best purpose, as we learn
    To make the place where we sojourn
      Homelike and more like Heaven.




On Bancroft Height.


    On Bancroft height Aurora's face
      Shines brighter than a star,
    As stepping forth in dewy grace,
      The gates of day unbar;
    And lo! the firmament, the hills,
      And the vales that intervene--
    Creation's self with gladness thrills
      To greet the matin queen.

    On Bancroft height the atmosphere
      Is but an endless waft
    Of life's elixir, pure and clear
      As mortal ever quaffed;
    And such the sweet salubrity
      Of air and altitude,
    Is banished many a malady
      And suffering subdued.

    On Bancroft height the sunset glow
      When day departing dies
    Outrivals all that tourists know
      Of famed Italian skies;
    And happy dwellers round about
      Who view the scene aright
    In admiration grow devout
      And laud the Lord of light.

    Round Bancroft height rich memories
      Commingle earth's affairs,
    Among the world's celebrities,
      Of him whose name it bears;
    The scholar-wise compatriot
      Who left to later men
    The grand achievements unforgot
      Of that historic pen.

    Fair Bancroft height revisited
      When all the land is white,
    A halo crowns its noble head
      Impelling fresh delight;
    The daring wish in winter-time
      The blizzard to defy
    Those shining slippery slopes to climb
      Up nearer to the sky.

    Though Boreas abrade the cheek
      With buffetings of snow,
    He gives a vigor that the weak
      And languid never know;
    And with rejuvenescent thrill,
      Like children everywhere,
    Bestirs the rhapsody, the will
      To make a snow-man there.

    On Bancroft height and Bancroft tower
      Such vistas charm the eye
    'Twere life's consummate, glorious hour
      But to behold--and die;
    Yet in the sparkle and the glow
      Is earth so very fair
    The spirit lingers, loath to go,
      And dreams of heaven--up there.




A Reformer.


    After this flagrant outrage, nothing
      remained de la but. He had
    received intelligence
      that the Their
    Iroquois were making great
      preparations for an
    trouble upon the French settlements,
      and that had sent embassadors to the Indians the south for despite
the purpose of insuring repose in that with the hated pale faces.

    The the cantons of his savage enemies
      their power into a the field
    of battle. As yet, few and small
      were the self-help he
    humored had received quarter,
      governor promptly determined
    to adopt the but safer course of
      striking the first blow and making while they threw he anticipated
could from France, and of his Indian arrive for M.: he was, therefore
unwillingly all considerable time elapse ere the further supplies
compelled to quarreling avail himself of the assistance the struggle
allie

    s
      Then turned to stately palaces
      Of luxury and ease,
    Where wealth's absorbing object was
      The master's whim to please;
    And spoke of evils unredressed,
      Of danger yet to be--
    They only answered, like the rest:
      "But what is that to me?"

    And even pious _devotées_
      Whom sacred walls immure
    Condemned me (as by feeble praise)--
      What more could I endure?
    Down by the stream, so pure and clear
      That sunbeams paused to drink,
    In loneliness and grief sincere
      I pressed its grassy brink.

    Thick darkness seemed to veil the day;
      Beyond a realm of tears
    Utopia's land of promise lay;
      And not till later years
    I learned this lesson--that to win
      Results from labor sure,
    "Reformers" always must begin
      Among the lowly poor.

    Mr. Jefferson says Demosthenes
      to the and Cicero of it," I
    may challenge the whole of,
      and of any other more
    eulogist, if Europe has furnished
      more eminent, to
    produce single passage superior
      speech of Logan. but"Transcriber's Notes:
Page 27: Changed Galiee to Galilee (Printer's Error)
Page 47: Indented 1st stanza to match others
Page 173: Changed prarie to prairie (Printer's Error)