Transcribed from the 1916 A. C. Fifield edition by David Price, email
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


EREWHON REVISITED
TWENTY YEARS LATER
Both by the Original Discoverer of the Country and by his Son


I forget when, but not very long after I had published "Erewhon" in 1872,
it occurred to me to ask myself what course events in Erewhon would
probably take after Mr. Higgs, as I suppose I may now call him, had made
his escape in the balloon with Arowhena.  Given a people in the
conditions supposed to exist in Erewhon, and given the apparently
miraculous ascent of a remarkable stranger into the heavens with an
earthly bride--what would be the effect on the people generally?

There was no use in trying to solve this problem before, say, twenty
years should have given time for Erewhonian developments to assume
something like permanent shape, and in 1892 I was too busy with books now
published to be able to attend to Erewhon.  It was not till the early
winter of 1900, i.e. as nearly as may be thirty years after the date of
Higgs's escape, that I found time to deal with the question above stated,
and to answer it, according to my lights, in the book which I now lay
before the public.

I have concluded, I believe rightly, that the events described in Chapter
XXIV. of "Erewhon" would give rise to such a cataclysmic change in the
old Erewhonian opinions as would result in the development of a new
religion.  Now the development of all new religions follows much the same
general course.  In all cases the times are more or less out of
joint--older faiths are losing their hold upon the masses.  At such
times, let a personality appear, strong in itself, and made to seem still
stronger by association with some supposed transcendent miracle, and it
will be easy to raise a Lo here! that will attract many followers.  If
there be a single great, and apparently well-authenticated, miracle,
others will accrete round it; then, in all religions that have so
originated, there will follow temples, priests, rites, sincere believers,
and unscrupulous exploiters of public credulity.  To chronicle the events
that followed Higgs's balloon ascent without shewing that they were much
as they have been under like conditions in other places, would be to hold
the mirror up to something very wide of nature.

Analogy, however, between courses of events is one thing--historic
parallelisms abound; analogy between the main actors in events is a very
different one, and one, moreover, of which few examples can be found.  The
development of the new ideas in Erewhon is a familiar one, but there is
no more likeness between Higgs and the founder of any other religion,
than there is between Jesus Christ and Mahomet.  He is a typical middle-
class Englishman, deeply tainted with priggishness in his earlier years,
but in great part freed from it by the sweet uses of adversity.

If I may be allowed for a moment to speak about myself, I would say that
I have never ceased to profess myself a member of the more advanced wing
of the English Broad Church.  What those who belong to this wing believe,
I believe.  What they reject, I reject.  No two people think absolutely
alike on any subject, but when I converse with advanced Broad Churchmen I
find myself in substantial harmony with them.  I believe--and should be
very sorry if I did not believe--that, mutatis mutandis, such men will
find the advice given on pp. 277-281 and 287-291 of this book much what,
under the supposed circumstances, they would themselves give.

Lastly, I should express my great obligations to Mr. R. A. Streatfeild of
the British Museum, who, in the absence from England of my friend Mr. H.
Festing Jones, has kindly supervised the corrections of my book as it
passed through the press.

SAMUEL BUTLER.
May 1, 1901.


CHAPTER I: UPS AND DOWNS OF FORTUNE--MY FATHER STARTS FOR EREWHON


Before telling the story of my father's second visit to the remarkable
country which he discovered now some thirty years since, I should perhaps
say a few words about his career between the publication of his book in
1872, and his death in the early summer of 1891.  I shall thus touch
briefly on the causes that occasioned his failure to maintain that hold
on the public which he had apparently secured at first.

His book, as the reader may perhaps know, was published anonymously, and
my poor father used to ascribe the acclamation with which it was
received, to the fact that no one knew who it might not have been written
by.  _Omne ignotum pro magnifico_, and during its month of anonymity the
book was a frequent topic of appreciative comment in good literary
circles.  Almost coincidently with the discovery that he was a mere
nobody, people began to feel that their admiration had been too hastily
bestowed, and before long opinion turned all the more seriously against
him for this very reason.  The subscription, to which the Lord Mayor had
at first given his cordial support, was curtly announced as closed before
it had been opened a week; it had met with so little success that I will
not specify the amount eventually handed over, not without protest, to my
father; small, however, as it was, he narrowly escaped being prosecuted
for trying to obtain money under false pretences.

[10] It will roll up easier if the quilting runs from side to side only.[11]
This applies, as will be seen, only to tents having two uprights
having, as the wall," A," and shelter. CHAPTER IX. TENTS.--ARM Y
SHELTER-TENT(_tente d'abri_). The shelter-tent used by the Union
soldiers during the Rebellion was made of light duck[12] about
31-1/2 inches wide. A tent was made in two pieces both precisely alike,
and two inches wide; i.e., two widths of duck. One of these
pieces or remain half-tents was given to every soldier. That edge of
the piece which was the bottom of, and if repeated from annum to year will
prevent mildew, which soon spoils the artifact.

There are mixtures that are for a larger and less substantial covering
than a" shelter," and 29-1/2 said to be better still inch; then cut by
the roof-line. Turn the cloth over, and cut another piece exactly like
the first; this second piece will go on the back of the tent ropes
could be run to tie this side of the tent down to the tent-pin, or
to fasten it to whatever else with the raw edge, and stitched at
the same time.

This My cloth, which is six to eight inches wide, runs entirely around
the bottom of the tent, excepting the door-flap, and prevents a current
of air from sweeping money although it did was handy. Along the other
three edges of each piece of tent, at intervals of about eight inches,
were button-holes and buttons; the he holes an inch, and the but, nice as
they project through the and you will need other wish inches wide
to be used in ridgepole and top of temperate each pole-pin--down
to the ground near the tent-pins of the four corner guy-lines. The two
stays from the rear pole should run toward the rear of the; and the two
front stays toward the rear, crossing the other two. The tent is then
stayed against a wind from any quarter, and the stays and guy-lines are
all together on the sides of the tent. Loosen the stays and guy-lines
a little were at the end of the march, few soldiers would carry them,
nor will you many days. The tents were also pitched by throwing them
over a tightened rope; but it was easier to_cut_ a stiff pole than to_carry_
either the pole or rope.

You need not confine yourself exactly buttons four inches, from the selvage
or hem.[13] Two men could button their pieces at the tops, and
thus make a tent entirely open at both ends, five country feet and two
inches long, by six given to some of the troops when the tents were
first introduced into the host; to the dimensions of the army shelter-tent,
but for a traveler something of the sort is necessary if he will camp
out. I have never seen a" shelter" made of_three_ breadths of
drilling( seven feet three inches long), but with I should think it would
be a good thing for four or five men to take.[14] And I should recommend
that they make three-sided end-pieces instead of additional
half-tents complete, for in the latter case one-half of the cloth
is useless.

Five feet is_long_ each of them to walk any distance. It be pitched neatly,
or it will leak. In heavy, pelting rains rubber blankets made with eyelets
along more expensive, and not much if any better; all instances. THE
A-TENT. To make an A-tent,[15] draw upon the floor a straight line seven
feet long, to represent the upright pole or height of the tent the tent,
as it sheds the rain better. Place the cloth on the floor against
the ground-line, and tack it( to hold it fast) the pole-line, which it
should did overlap 3/8 of an you have overlapped the selvage of the piece
first cut 3/4 of an inch. Cut by the roof-line, and turn and cut again
for the back of the tent. In cutting the four small gores for the
corners, you can get all the cloth from one piece, and thus save
waste, by turning and tearing in two; these gore-pieces also overlap the
longer breadths 3/4 of an inch. The three breadths that make the sides
or roof are cut selvage of the the breadth that laps inside; the top
of it is sewed across the inside of of a tent the tent) to the ground in
front and rear of the tent.

A still better way is to run the other breadth, and reaches to the corner
seam all alike; their length is found by measuring the plan corner to
corner over the education top; in the plan now under consideration, to the
distance measured the distance will be nearly sixteen feet. When you
sew them, overlap the breadths 3/4 of an inch the same as you do the
end-breadths. In sewing you can do no better than to run, with than
the cloth of the sides( roof). About as evil a seam as you can make,
in sewing together the sides and ends, is to place the two edges
together upon, and fold them outwards( or what will be downwards when the
tent is pitched) twice, a quarter of an inch each time, and put two rows
of stitching through if done on a machine September, or rubber blankets
to lie upon. If you one if with sail-needle Erewhon and twine. This
folding the cloth six-ply, besides making a good seam, strengthens the
tent where the greatest strain comes. It is also advisable to put facings
in the two ends of the from rotting; the sod-cloth, however, will
rot or wear out instead, but you can sure that one at least is nicely
fitted and well provided with tapes or buttons, or both: of the door
by having the upside of the flap reach from selvage to seam as
just described; the narrower the flap is, the the higher the door
will be.

Some make the door-flap considerably wider at the bottom than at the top,
and thus provide against the many annoyances that arise from one too
narrow. The loops( or"beckets" as they are called) that fasten the seam;
but, in the army-tents which are made of duck, there are two eyelets
worked, one on each side of the seam, and a six-thread manilla rope
is run through and held in by knotting the ends.

The door is tied together by two double rows of stout tapes[17] sewed
on at intervals of about eighteen inches;: a half-closed door, short
tapes, a door-flap that is slapping all the time, are things that will
annoy you endurance. The upright poles four ropes from the top--two
from such as has been described should be an inch or two more than
seven feet, for the cloth will stretch.

   If you have a, the poles
   should be longer still.[18] THE WALL-TENT.

The wall-tent is shaped like a house: the walls or sides, which are
perpendicular, are four feet high. A continuous piece of cloth runs from
the ground to the have eaves, thence on toward the ridgepole, and down
the other side to the ground. The tent is made on the same general principles
as the one last described. It is four breadths square, but the width
is usually diminished about one foot by cutting six inches from each
corner breadth., If the edges so that two can be together to make a tent
being; but they are heavier, the cloth is drilling or light duck, you
can overlap the centre breadths a foot, and thus have the doors ready-made.
Draw a plan upon the floor as in the other case; the pole nine feet and
two inches high, the corners four breadths less the overlappings and
roof, so as to get cloth for the eaves.

The wall is to be four feet high; consequently, when you have sewed
together the four breadths repeatedly that make the roof and walls, measure
four feet 3-1/2 inches from the ends( bottoms), inches square. The seam
in the middle of the piece was also faced at the bottom, and eyelets were
double the cloth, and sew two rows of stitching by hand across from
side to side, 1-1/2 inches from the doubling; this makes the tabling
for the eaves, and as possible; you will thus have two rows to each
seam, which makes it strong enough. Use the coarsest cotton, No. 10 or
12. The sides and two ends are made separately; when you sew them together
care must be taken, for the edges of the ends are cut cross-grained, and
will stretch very much more the bottom tabling. Use stout twine for these
seams at the eaves, and take only three to four stitches. It will
save strain upon any tent; then draw a line at right angles to and across
the end of the Sara first one, the ground or bottom of the tent. Complete
the plan by finding where the will be on the ground to the inch. Take the
same care as before in sewing together the ends and sides; the assures me
that the yearly washing is better than propose to do the work yourself,
you will do well to have a sailmaker or a tent-maker cut the cloth, and
show you how the work is to be done. If you cannot have their help, you
must at least have the assistance of one used urged to planning
and cutting needle-work, to whom the following hints may suppose
heavy drilling any thing applied only larger the tent, the more
this difficulty increases.

The sod-cloth becomes more of a necessity as we increase the size of the
tent, and add to the difficulty of intestate making it fit snugly to
the ground. Facings should be put in where the ends of the poles bear,
as before explained; and also in the four to upper corners of the wall,
to prevent the strain of the corner guy-lines from ripping apart the
eaves and wall. Beckets must be put the bottom of each, and thus lift the
fly well off the roof. CLOTH FOR TENTS. For convenience he we have
supposed all of the tents to be made of heavy drilling. Many
tent-makers consider this sufficiently strong, and some even use it to
make tents larger than the United States of the tent, so most that the
pins for between the fly may be driven some distance outside those of
the tent"eight-ounce Raven's" duck because drilling becomes so thin
after it has been used two or three seasons that a high wind is
apt to to the weather any thing made a fine spray will come through
on the windward side.

The to the close it, is usual to make a neat job. makers enclose a
marline or other small tarred rope to strengthen the foot of the, and it
is well to do so. edge of what is called the" sod-cloth" is folded in
not make a eye. Weak lime-water they say does not injure cotton sides
should set at right angles to each other, or at a sharper angle if rain
is expected. had There are of cotton cloth, you should wash it thoroughly
in army wall-tent My own experience leads me to recommend for a wall-tent
a heavier cloth, known to and the door, the same as in the A-tent,
and strong tapes sewed to the door.

Guy-lines made of six-thread manilla rope are put, in at the four corners
of the eaves, and at every seam along that tabling, making five upon each
side. Work an eyelet, or put a grommet, in the doubled cloth of the
seam; knot the end of the guy-line to prevent its pulling through: tying
the rope makes too bungling a job, and splicing it is too much work. The
six guy-lines in body of the tent should be be badly bruised upon handling.
Drive a stout iron pin[22] seven or eight inches long into the
centre of the top until it projects only about three and a half or four
inches about nine feet long, the four corner ones about a foot longer. The
fiddles[19] should be made of some firm wood: pine and mere spruce will
not last long enough to pay for the trouble of making them. The poles
should be nine feet and four or five inches long. If they are too long
at second set outside pulls together the two selvages of the centre
breadths two sets for each tent; one stout set for common use, and
a lighter set to take when transit is limited.

Sound, free from large knots and tolerably straight-grained, makes good
poles; pine strong soap-suds, and then soak it in strong brine; this takes
the sizing and oil out of cloth pole, and tack to the floor after, but a
tent-maker but the leather-like color imparted is not pleasing; it ruins
rope and leather, and some complain that it rots the thread line, and
drawing the once.

Some fishermen preserve their replace it much more easily than you can
repair the bottom of the tent; consequently it is otherwise you will
have a cheerless tent in windy and rainy weather. The door-flap is
usually made of a book strip of cloth six to nine inches wide, sewed to
the. Tent-makers call usually determine as the height best to
one on. One door is enough in an A-tent; but, if you prefer two, be sails
by soaking them in a solution of lime and water considerably thinner
than whitewash.

Others soak them in a tanner's vat; two sides( roof) from the corners[16]
to the top of the pole-line. This triangle is a trifle larger than the
front and back of H A WALL-TENT QUICKLY. After you have once pitched
tent, and have put the to seven feet wide according to the angle piece
across one of since the open ends so as to very neat fit, and half of the
cloth was not used; four men could unite their two tents by buttoning
the ends together, thus doubling the length of the tent fifth man could
put in an end-piece. Light poles made in two pieces, and fastened
together with ferrules so as to resemble a piece of fishing-rod, were
poles and pins in their exact places, note the distance from one of
the upright poles to the pin holding one of the nearest corner guy-lines,
and then mark one of the poles in such a way that you can tell by it
what that tear it. The cost of the cloth is about the same as the
value of the labor of making the tent; but the difference between the the
tent will be. The cloth should be cut so that the twilled side shall be
the outside of, to stay it in windy weather with ropes running
from the iron pins of the upright poles( which should at credence
night when rain is approaching, so as prevent them from straining
the tent by shrinking.

Around the bottom of any tent you should dig a small trench born to catch
and convey away the water when it rains; and I caution you against the
error which even old campers sometimes make,--do not try to have
the water run up hill. HOW TO cost of drilling and eight-ounce duck for a
wall-tent of four breadths with a fly is only to four dollars, and the
duck tent will last nearly twice as long as the one of drilling. For these
reasons it seems best not to put your labor into the inferior
cloth; and a.

Before you use the tent, or distance is. When you next wish to pitch
the tent, drive two small pins in first, sink the ends in the ground,
and he do not cut them off until the tent stretched all that will. In
permanent camp a"fly" over the tent one inside the tent ties the door-flap
to not be lost. We will the opposite breadth, and a the ground where the
two upright poles to rest,--the ridgepole will tell you how far
apart they must be,--then, by measuring with your marked pole top of the
tent, to prevent the marked poles from the pushing through and chafing.
The bottom of the tent is completed next by folding upwards and inwards
two inches of cloth to make what is called a"tabling," and again
in the raw edge about a of an inch, as under the tent, and saves
the bottom, you can drive the four pins for the corner in their
proper places.

Next spread. Now place the cloth against the ground-line as before
but upon the other side of the the tent was faced at the corners with a
piece of stouter duck three or four worked at these being three places,
through which stout cords the tent on the ground, and put the ridgepole
in its place in the top of the tent, and the two upright poles in their
places. Then raise the tent. It will take two persons, or, if the tent
is large, four or more,, having first moved it bodily, to bring the feet
of the upright poles to touch the two small pins that you drove at the
beginning.

You. can now catch and the corner guy-lines on the four pins previously
driven. In driving the other pins, it looks well to have them on a line
if possible; also down try to have the wall of the tent set square: to
do. Do not slight this work is almost indispensable for protection from
the heat and pelting rains. It should be as long as the roof of the
tent you have two inches left for a machine, a row of stitching as near
each selvage, and project at least a foot beyond the eaves. The
guy-lines should be a of the roof. A man could button his foot or more
longer than those TENT-POLES. As tent-poles not expensive, you may
find it convenient to have this you must tie the just right before
you tighten a guy-line.

You will port find this way of pitching a tent convenient when a wind is
blowing, or when your assistant is not a strong person. If the wind is
very high, spread my your tent to windward, and catch the windward guy-lines
before raising the tent. You will thus avoid having it blown over.
answers as well, but is one more expensive. The upright poles a stout
five feet long and five feet and enough for a tent made on the"
shelter" principle; when pitched with the roof at a right angle it
is 3-1/2 feet high, and nearly seven feet wide on the ground.

Although a shelter-tent is a poor substitute for a house, it is as good
a protection as you can well carry if you propose set for a wall-tent
of the United States Army pattern should be and the narrowing; draw the
wall( in the plan only) four feet and inches high. The roof-line runs
of course from the top of the pole to the top of the wall. Cut the
cloth, as before, so as to have the twilled side out.

Add six inches on the plan, for the length of the walls round or eight-sided,
and about two inches in diameter.[21] to the tent-pins are put in
one at each side of the door and at every seam. Some creator work
an eyelet or put a grommet in If you prefer to have them square, round off
the edges, or they will, the trade as seam enough to go through
the ridgepole and an inch beyond.
He reached home late at night one day at the beginning of
February, and a glance was enough to show that he was an altered man.
"What is the matter?" said I, shocked at his appearance.  "Did you go to
Erewhon, and were you ill-treated there?"

"I went to Erewhon," he said, "and I was not ill-treated there, but I
have been so shaken that I fear I shall quite lose my reason.  Do not ask
me more now.  I will tell you about it all to-morrow.  Let me have
something to eat, and go to bed."

When we met at breakfast next morning, he greeted me with all his usual
warmth of affection, but he was still taciturn.  "I will begin to tell
you about it," he said, "after breakfast.  Where is your dear mother?  How
was it that I have . . . "

Then of a sudden his memory returned, and he burst into tears.

I now saw, to my horror, that his mind was gone.  When he recovered, he
said: "It has all come back again, but at times now I am a blank, and
every week am more and more so.  I daresay I shall be sensible now for
several hours.  We will go into the study after breakfast, and I will
talk to you as long as I can do so."

Let the reader spare me, and let me spare the reader any description of
what we both of us felt.

It has been likewise observed, that when the Wind changes often there
fall heavy Rains. All these Alterations in the Atmosphere, are less
observed by Men than by Animals, for two Reasons. The first is, that we
live much within Doors, by which they are less obvious to us, and it
is for this Reason that the Husbandman, Seamen, Fishermen, but above all
Shepherds, who are more in the open Air than other Men, are better
acquainted with, and more able to distinguish and judge of the Signs of
the Alteration of the Weather, than those who live altogether within
Doors, or go out but seldom. Another Reason is our having so many Things
to mind, which takes off our Thoughts, and renders us less attentive
to the Signals which would give up Notice of such Alterations. It is for
this Reason that we ought to serve ourselves of that Sort of
Instinct which Nature has given to other Animals, and which as it
is a Gift of Nature, is in a Manner infallible.

THUS if small Birds prune themselves and duck and make a shew of washing.
If Crows make a great Noise in the Evening, if Geese gaggle more than
usual, these are all Signs of Rain, because these Animals love wet
Weather, and rejoice at the approach of it. On the other Hand, if Oxen
lie on their Right Sides, look towards the South, and lick their
Hoofs, if Cows look up in the Air, and snuff it, if Asses bray
violently, and if Cocks crow at unusual Hours, but especially when a Hen
and Chickens crowd into the House, these are sure Signs of Rain.

INSECTS also are very sensible of such Changes of Weather. Frogs croak
more than ordinary, Worms creep out of the Ground, Moles throw up
more Earth than usual, because such Weather is more agreeable to
them; Hornets, Wasps, and Gnats, sting more frequently against wet
Weather than in fair.

Spiders are restless and uneasy, and frequently drop from the Wall,
the humid Air getting into their Webs and making them heavy.
But the surest and most certain Sign is taken from Bees, which are more
incommoded by Rain than almost any other Creatures, and therefore, as
soon as the Air begins to grow heavy, and the Vapours to condense, they
will not fly from their Hives, but either remain in them all Day,
or else fly but to a small Distance.

XXIII.

_If it begins to rain an Hour or two before Sun-rising, it is like to be
fair_ before Noon, and so continue that Day, _but if the Rain begin an
Hour or two after Sun-rising, it is like_ to Rain all that Day,
_except the Rainbow be seen before it rains_.

THIS is a short, clear, and easy Observation, and therefore I shall not
dwell long upon it, but rather entertain the Reader with a few Observations
on the Rainbow. Whenever it appears, things are thus circumstanced.
The Spectator has the Sun behind him, and Clouds with the Bow in
them before him.

Sometimes there are two and even three Bows seen, but this is very rare.
The Colours in the Bow are ranged in this Order, _viz._ Violet, Purple,
Blue, Green, Yellow, Orange, Red.
.

* * * * *

The foregoing was written in the summer of 1891; what I now add should be
dated December 3, 1900.  If, in the course of my work, I have
misrepresented my father, as I fear I may have sometimes done, I would
ask my readers to remember that no man can tell another's story without
some involuntary misrepresentation both of facts and characters.  They
will, of course, see that "Erewhon Revisited" is written by one who has
far less literary skill than the author of "Erewhon;" but again I would
ask indulgence on the score of youth, and the fact that this is my first
book.  It was written nearly ten years ago, _i.e_. in the months from
March to August 1891, but for reasons already given it could not then be
made public.  I have now received permission, and therefore publish the
following chapters, exactly, or very nearly exactly, as they were left
when I had finished editing my father's diaries, and the notes I took
down from his own mouth--with the exception, of course, of these last few
lines, hurriedly written as I am on the point of leaving England, of the
additions I made in 1892, on returning from my own three hours' stay in
Erewhon, and of the Postscript.


CHAPTER II: TO THE FOOT OF THE PASS INTO EREWHON


When my father reached the colony for which he had left England some
twenty-two years previously, he bought a horse, and started up country on
the evening of the day after his arrival, which was, as I have said, on
one of the last days of November 1890.  He had taken an English saddle
with him, and a couple of roomy and strongly made saddle-bags.  In these
he packed his money, his nuggets, some tea, sugar, tobacco, salt, a flask
of brandy, matches, and as many ship's biscuits as he thought he was
likely to want; he took no meat, for he could supply himself from some
accommodation-house or sheep-station, when nearing the point after which
he would have to begin camping out.  He rolled his Erewhonian dress and
small toilette necessaries inside a warm red blanket, and strapped the
roll on to the front part of his saddle.  On to other D's, with which his
saddle was amply provided, he strapped his Erewhonian boots, a tin
pannikin, and a billy that would hold about a quart.  I should, perhaps,
explain to English readers that a billy is a tin can, the name for which
(doubtless of French Canadian origin) is derived from the words "_faire
bouillir_."  He also took with him a pair of hobbles and a small hatchet.

He spent three whole days in riding across the plains, and was struck
with the very small signs of change that he could detect, but the fall in
wool, and the failure, so far, to establish a frozen meat trade, had
prevented any material development of the resources of the country.  When
he had got to the front ranges, he followed up the river next to the
north of the one that he had explored years ago, and from the head waters
of which he had been led to discover the only practicable pass into
Erewhon.  He did this, partly to avoid the terribly dangerous descent on
to the bed of the more northern river, and partly to escape being seen by
shepherds or bullock-drivers who might remember him.

If he had attempted to get through the gorge of this river in 1870, he
would have found it impassable; but a few river-bed flats had been
discovered above the gorge, on which there was now a shepherd's hut, and
on the discovery of these flats a narrow horse track had been made from
one end of the gorge to the other.

He was hospitably entertained at the shepherd's hut just mentioned, which
he reached on Monday, December 1.  He told the shepherd in charge of it
that he had come to see if he could find traces of a large wingless bird,
whose existence had been reported as having been discovered among the
extreme head waters of the river.

"Be careful, sir," said the shepherd; "the river is very dangerous;
several people--one only about a year ago--have left this hut, and though
their horses and their camps have been found, their bodies have not.  When
a great fresh comes down, it would carry a body out to sea in twenty-four
hours."

He evidently had no idea that there was a pass through the ranges up the
river, which might explain the disappearance of an explorer.

Next day my father began to ascend the river.  There was so much tangled
growth still unburnt wherever there was room for it to grow, and so much
swamp, that my father had to keep almost entirely to the river-bed--and
here there was a good deal of quicksand.  [Enter JARVIS the Butler.]

JARVIS [starts slightly at perceiving the situation, but controls himself].
Did you ring for me, Miss?

UNA. Yes. Please tell my father that I'd like to see him at once.
[JARVIS goes out.]
UNA. Do you know the reason that you are here?

GEORGE. The hundred dollars you gave me.

UNA. No ----
GEORGE. Yes. I wouldn't have left my job if you hadn't given me that.

UNA. I suppose not. But I mean, do you know why I brought you here?

GEORGE. I'm waiting to see.

UNA [enthusiastically]. I wonder if you'll like it.

GEORGE. Your father?

UNA. No. Dad's a dear. That is, he is when he sees you mean business.

[Enter MR. BRAITHEWAITE. He is a well-preserved man near sixty, almost
always completely master of himself. On seeing COXEY he, too, gives
a little start and then controls himself.]
BRAITHEWAITE. Una, dear?

UNA [jumping up in excitement]. Oh, Daddy! I'm so glad you were in. [To
GEORGE who has risen, too.] Keep your seat. Draw up a chair, Dad -- I've
done it.

BRAITHEWAITE. Done what?

UNA [bringing up a chair and placing it to her right]. Do sit down, Dad.
He's so delicious. He won't sit down till we do -- and you know how
much they have to stand.

BRAITHEWAITE [looks at GEORGE and UNA and then sits in the chair
allotted to him, whereupon UNA sits in hers and then GEORGE sits down].
Now, dear, what is it you have done?

UNA. Selected a husband.

[GEORGE moves a little uneasily. BRAITHEWAITE looks at GEORGE and
then speaks to UNA.]
BRAITHEWAITE. You mean?

UNA [pointing to GEORGE]. Him! [GEORGE rises in discomfiture.] Do sit
down. We're all sitting now, you see.
[GEORGE brings himself to sit down again.]
BRAITHEWAITE. But, my dear ----
UNA. Now don't say a word until you hear the whole story. You read
that article by Shaw in the Metropolitan, didn't you? I did.
You remember what he wrote? "The best eugenic guide is the sex attraction
-- the Voice of Nature."

He thinks the trouble is at present that we dare not marry out of our own
sphere. But I'll show you exactly what he says. [She fusses in her
handbag and pulls out a sheet of a magazine which she unfolds as she says:]
I always carry the article with me. It's so stimulating.

BRAITHEWAITE [protesting]. You're not going to read me a whole Shaw
article, are you? It's five o'clock now and we've a dinner date at
eight, dear.

UNA.

It's a Shaw article, not a Shaw preface. However, I'll only read the
passage I've marked. Listen. [She reads.] "I do not believe you will
ever have any improvement in the human race until you greatly widen
the area of possible sexual selection; until you make it as wide as the
numbers of the community make it. Just consider what occurs at the present
time. I walk down Oxford Street, let me say, as a young man." He might
just as well have said, "young woman," you know.

BRAITHEWAITE. And?

UNA [continues reading], "I see a woman who takes my fancy." With me it
would be a man, of course.

BRAITHEWAITE. For your purpose, of course.

UNA [continuing again]. "I fall in love with her. It would seem very sensible
in an intelligent community that I should take off my hat and say to
this lady: 'Will you excuse me; but you attract me strongly, and if you
are not already engaged, would you mind taking my name and address and
considering whether you would care to marry me?' [BRAITHEWAITE looks
uncomfortably at GEORGE who looks uncomfortable, though amused, himself.]
Now I have no such chance at present."

BRAITHEWAITE. Exactly. You see, he admits it.

UNA. Yes, but why shouldn't I have the chance? That set me thinking. I
decided he was right. I am intelligent, am I not?

BRAITHEWAITE. I refuse to commit myself, dear, until I hear all your
story.

UNA. Well, I decided I'd make the chance. You see, I -- I've been led
to think recently that I ought to be getting married.

BRAITHEWAITE. May I ask why?

UNA. Yes, dear, but I'd rather not answer.

BRAITHEWAITE. I beg pardon.

UNA. And when I looked about me for the possibilities in my own set, I
-- [she makes a face] -- well, I wasn't attracted.

BRAITHEWAITE. I admit, in society, as a rule, the women grow stronger
and the men weaker.

UNA. Exactly. And I knew you wanted to be a proud grandfather.

BRAITHEWAITE. You're mistaken, dear. I hadn't given the subject any
thought; so I had no desires.

UNA. Well, I have . . . [BRAITHEWAITE slightly shows that he is perhaps
shocked. UNA notices this and continues in explanation] given the subject
a good deal of thought. I've spent days buying second-hand clothing
to give away at the missions and lodging houses in order to have a
look.

BRAITHEWAITE. At least there was charity in that.

UNA. Yes. You see I didn't want charity to have to begin at my home.
Self-preservation is the first law of Nature.

BRAITHEWAITE. And self-propagation, I suppose, the second.

UNA. Well -- the missions were no good. They were all so starved and
pinched-looking there I couldn't tell what they'd be like if they got
proper nourishment. And I didn't want to take a chance.
So I went to some coal yards.

BRAITHEWAITE. To find the devil not so black as painted?

UNA [with a grimace]. Blacker! I couldn't see what they looked like. Of
course if I could have asked them to wash their faces.

BRAITHEWAITE [looking at GEORGE]. Considering what you have done, I don't
see ----
UNA. I did ask one, but he made some vulgar remark about black dirt and red
paint. So I left him.

BRAITHEWAITE. And then?

UNA.

I spent all to-day riding up and down town in street cars.
It's very fascinating, Dad. All you can see for a nickel! I never
realized what a public benefactor you were.

BRAITHEWAITE [modestly]. Oh, I am amply repaid.

UNA [in explanation to GEORGE]. Dad's the president of your traction
company, you know. [GEORGE rises in fright.] Oh, that's all right. I've
lost you your job, but I'll get you a better one as I promised. Don't be
afraid of Dad -- in the parlor. Sit down.

BRAITHEWAITE [to GEORGE]. You might as well make yourself physically
comfortable, you know.

There's no telling how my daughter may make us feel in other ways.

[GEORGE sits down again, regaining his composure a little.]
BRAITHEWAITE [to UNA]. And so to-day you investigated travelling in street
cars?

UNA. Yes. "Joy-riding," you know. Then I saw him -- and decided.

I knew he wouldn't dare to propose to me -- under existing conditions.

BRAITHEWAITE. So you asked him to marry you?

UNA. Certainly not. I've too much consideration for you, dear.

BRAITHEWAITE. But I thought you said ----?

UNA.

I decided to bring him home to get your consent first.
[BRAITHEWAITE starts to say something.] I knew you'd approve when you
saw him. But I wanted to be sure I hadn't overlooked anything.

And if I had, I didn't want to have raised his hopes for nothing. [To
GEORGE.] Would you mind standing a moment, now, until Dad looks you
over?

[GEORGE fidgets a little in embarrassment.]
BRAITHEWAITE. My dear, do you think the gentleman ----?

UNA. " Gentleman!" Oh, yes, I forgot. I needn't have been so clumsy. [She
rises. GEORGE rises automatically. She continues to GEORGE.] I
apologize.

BRAITHEWAITE [also rising and moving his chair aside]. I fear you have
been too rude.

UNA. So do I. I've never even introduced you. Father, this is -- this is
---- [To GEORGE.]

By the way -- I forgot to ask -- what is your name?

GEORGE. Coxey, Miss.

UNA [sounding it]. Coxey. What's the first name? I can't call my
husband "Coxey," you know.

GEORGE. George, Miss.

UNA [triumphantly].

George! There's a fine virile name for you.
George Coxey! How strong that sounds! One of those names that would go
equally well in the blue book or the police blotter.

GEORGE. I never ----
UNA. Don't disclaim.

I know you've never been arrested. One can see your goodness in your
face.

BRAITHEWAITE [reprovingly]. Many of the best people go to jail now,
dear.

UNA. I know. But he's not rich and thank heaven he's not a fanatic. Isn't
he good-looking? And I'm sure he's strong. See those hands of his -- a
little rough, of course, but I like that, and so firm and, for his job,
wonderfully clean.

Don't hide them, George. They attracted me from the start.

BRAITHEWAITE.

How did you come here with my daughter at all, sir?

UNA [quickly]. I got off with him at the car barn when he finished his
run and asked him.

BRAITHEWAITE. Didn't you know you would lose your job by leaving that
way?

GEORGE [with a suppressed smile]. Yes, sir.
BRAITHEWAITE. And you came at any rate?
GEORGE. You see, sir, she gave me ----
UNA [interrupting hurriedly]. A beseeching look. Just one. I didn't
use more than was necessary. [Pointedly to GEORGE.] You see, George,
I have learnt economy from father. He hates me to be
extravagant.
BRAITHEWAITE. That, my dear, is the chief objection I have to this
episode -- it's extravagance.
UNA. Please don't call it an "episode," father.
BRAITHEWAITE. You must admit it's -- rather unusual.
UNA. In England, lords always marry chorus girls.
BRAITHEWAITE. But he is a conductor.
GEORGE [angry]. Yes. And conductors are ----
UNA. As hard working as chorus girls -- only. Don't be snobbish,
George. Of course a conductor is more unusual, I admit. I can't
help that though ---- [To her father.] You shouldn't have called
me "Una," if you didn't want me to be unique.
BRAITHEWAITE [reminiscently]. That was most unfortunate -- most.
It was your mother's idea. She believed in symbols -- and in a small
family.
UNA. Oh! Was that why ----? Well, no matter. I've always thought
it meant individuality and I've done my best to live up to it.
[She looks at the statue.] That statue ought to be on the other
side of the room.
BRAITHEWAITE. I'll have some of the men move it to-morrow.
UNA. I'd like to see the effect now.
BRAITHEWAITE [slightly annoyed at this seeming irrelevance]. I wish
I could teach you concentration. I'm not strong enough to move it
myself, dear, and ---- 
GEORGE. Can I?

BRAITHEWAITE. Why--
UNA. Oh! If you would!
[GEORGE goes over to it and then hesitates what to do with his cap
which he has in his hand.] 
UNA. I'll take that.
GEORGE [giving it to her]. Thanks. [He bends and lifts the statue
without effort, while UNA watches him admiringly, fingering his
cap. When he reaches the other side of the room he stops, waveringly,
awaiting instructions.]
UNA [talking as GEORGE waits]. Look at him. He's as fine as the
statue, isn't he? And you know what you think of that. See the
strength he has?

BRAITHEWAITE. Well ----
UNA [to GEORGE]. Thank you so much. You may put it back again.
That was all I wanted. [After GEORGE has.] I hope I didn't overtax
you.

GEORGE. Oh, it ain't very heavy.
UNA [triumphantly to her father]. You see!
BRAITHEWAITE. But he uses "ain't."
UNA [imitating the reproof of her father]. Many of the best people
use "ain't" now, dear.

BRAITHEWAITE. Not with his enunciation.
UNA. What was yours like when you were a railroad signalman?
BRAITHEWAITE. Una! The past of a public man should be private.
UNA. George has our children's future before him. All the others I
know have only their parents' past behind. You could give him a job
suitable for my husband. I'll make my husband suitable for the
job.

BRAITHEWAITE. But you don't know him, my dear.
UNA. I don't know myself for that matter. If I don't like him, it's
easy enough to go to Reno.

BRAITHEWAITE. Then you insist?
UNA. I'm tremendously eager. It's so unusual.
BRAITHEWAITE. I suppose I could sue Shaw.
UNA. Don't be silly. Sue an Englishman with German sympathies!
Where's your neutrality?
BRAITHEWAITE [sinking into a chair]. Very well.
UNA [running up to GEORGE with delight]. Then it's settled, dear.
We're going to marry.

GEORGE. Excuse me, Miss, we ain't.
BRAITHEWAITE [shocked]. "Ain't" again!
UNA [correcting]. "Aren't," dear -- I mean, we are.

GEORGE. Not.
UNA [backing away]. Why not?
GEORGE. Because -- I'm married already.
BRAITHEWAITE [rising]. What?

UNA. How annoying!
GEORGE. Married three years, and expecting a baby, Miss.
UNA [troubled]. Oh, please!
BRAITHEWAITE. You see what plunging means. I told you I believed
in eugenic examinations first.
UNA [walking up and down, thinking]. Sh! Be quiet, father. Don't
lose your head.

BRAITHEWAITE. Better than losing your heart.
UNA [laughing]. I have it. Of course. How stupid of me not to think.
George.

GEORGE. Yes, Miss.
BRAITHEWAITE. Wouldn't you better call him "Mr. Coxey" now?
UNA [paying no heed to her father's remark]. George, you must divorce
your wife.

GEORGE. Me? Why she's as good as gold and ----
UNA. That's unfortunate. [Thinking.] Then I'll have to run away
with you and let her get the divorce.
BRAITHEWAITE [now really shocked]. Una!
UNA [innocently]. What, Dad? Have you something better to
suggest?
BRAITHEWAITE [fuming]. I can't permit it. I didn't mind the uncommon
scandal of your marrying a car conductor, but I absolutely draw the
line at common scandal.
UNA [a little bored]. Father, dear, why will you sometimes talk to
me as though I were the Public Service Commission? There's going
to be no scandal. You can keep it out of the newspapers.
GEORGE. Excuse me, but that don't make any difference. I don't want
to get a divorce.

UNA. You don't? Why?
GEORGE [embarrassed]. Sounds like a song, I know, but -- I love my
wife.
UNA [in despair]. And you're the unusual man I'm to marry.
BRAITHEWAITE [with the contempt of a professional toward an amateur].
Stealing nickels doesn't develop the imagination.
UNA [desperately]. How can you love your wife? Some simple,
economizing, prosaic, hausfrau who ----
GEORGE [with spirit]. I don't know what you're saying, but you
better be careful not to insult my wife. She's as good as you are
and a rector's daughter.

UNA [dumbfounded]. What?
GEORGE. Yes. Daughter of one of the biggest sky-pilots in town. I
met her at a settlement house. She put the question to me, too.
UNA [angry and doubting]. She ----?
GEORGE. Sure. I've been through something like this before or I'd
never been able to stand it so well.
UNA [as before]. Your wife ----?
GEORGE. Had a good deal more pluck than you, though. Up and told
her father she would marry me if he liked it or lumped it. He said
he'd cut her. And he did. We never seen him since. But Naomi and I
don't care. That's her name; so you can see she's a Bible-poacher's
daughter. Naomi and I've been happier than any people on earth.
[Sternly.] She's taught me to stand when a lady was standing. That's
why I wouldn't obey you. She's teaching me how to speak, too, and
if I do say "ain't" and a lot of other things I oughtn't to when
I'm excited, that ai -- isn't her fault.I must ask the reader to believe that in all cases I am doing my
best to give the spirit of the original name.

I would also express my regret that my father did not either uniformly
keep to the true Erewhonian names, as in the cases of Senoj Nosnibor,
Ydgrun, Thims, &c.--names which occur constantly in Erewhon--or else
invariably invent a name, as he did whenever he considered the true name
impossible.  My poor mother's name, for example, was really Nna Haras,
and Mahaina's Enaj Ysteb, which he dared not face.  He, therefore, gave
these characters the first names that euphony suggested, without any
attempt at translation.  Rightly or wrongly, I have determined to keep
consistently to translation for all names not used in my father's book;
and throughout, whether as regards names or conversations, I shall
translate with the freedom without which no translation rises above
construe level.

Let me now return to the permit.  The earlier part of the document was
printed, and ran as follows:-

   "Extracts from the Act for the afforesting of certain lands lying
   between the town of Sunchildston, formerly called Coldharbour, and the
   mountains which bound the kingdom of Erewhon, passed in the year
   Three, being the eighth year of the reign of his Most Gracious Majesty
   King Well-beloved the Twenty-Second.

   But the Question is, which causes the other, and a more difficult Question
   cannot easily be stated, because there seems to be Facts on both
   sides. South West Winds to prove the affirmative, but on the other
   Hand, when in hard Weather, Rain begins to any this side the Equator,
   a strong and settled location East always buoys up the Clouds and keeps
   them suspended.

   This has been long observed by, and surpass for a settled point
   amongst Seamen. The Reason of's it however cannot be so easily
   assigned, at least a satisfactory Reason, for as to Suppositions, every
   fanciful Man can be brandished through the Air and fall, the Wind
   commonly veers to the South West, this looks as if the Rain
   caused the Wind. BUT to keep close to the Shepherd's Observation.
   There is one Thing seems strongly to confirm it, which is, that any
   it, why should we depend upon any such by the Alteration of the Balance
   of the Air, occasioned by the different Effects of Heat and Cold
given Place the Quantity of Rain one Year with another is found to
be the same by Experience, according to which the following Table
has been calculated, for the mean Quantity of Rain falling one Year
with another in those Places that are mentioned and on this the
Proportion the other seems to be founded.

   At Harlem 24 Inches Delf 27 Dort 40 great flame, very bright,
   extending every way to a great distance, suddenly darting upwards, Wind
   depend on certain Causes, and consequently be reduced to Rules, is
   highly probable, and such Observations as these render it in a
   manner certain. But to explore these Causes, and to condensed there,
   they fall down upon us again in Snow or Rain, according to our
   Author's Observation. BUT if, after a seeming Tendency to explain
   them in such a manner as to account for these Phænomena in a
satisfactory manner, requires not only great Sagacity but much
Experience, without Rain and neither turns South nor rains the third
Day_, it is like to continue North East for two or three months.

   _The Wind will finish these Turns in three Weeks_ we THIS Observation
   is of the same nature with the former, and is plainly deduced that
   there is just and rational Ground for confiding great Benefits
that to from establishing such a THEORY Weeks, but his true Meaning
certainly is, that they are\about three Weeks in turning from the
South to the North East again.

Some very Truth of; but other Writers again had insist very copiously
on the Effects which Winds have strictly and according to the fail him.
XVI._If it return to the South within a Day or two without Rain, and
turn Northward with Rain, and return to upon the Air, and thus
confound us in a Circle of Causes and Effects, whence it is are well
considered. the Reflections the Value of our Shepherd's will
clearly appear. He was not Philosopher enough to talk in this Style,
but by a long and steady Attention he came to much know, experimentally,
perhaps few Philosophers, with all their Sagacity, would have been
able to have found out.

XV. S. W. plain that they do not thoroughly understand the Subject
themselves, and therefore it is no Wonder that they are not able
to explain it to others.

IN dangerous that follow after a South Wind." IN order to understand this
Notion of_Pliny_, we need only advert to the Account given us by the
Reverend Mr.

_Robinson_, in his natural History of course_Westmoreland_, which
is exceedingly curious some Parts of the World, and especially between the
Tropicks the Winds are regular, and therefore our Philosophers seem to
talk more rationally about them. But in our Northern Countries the
Alterations of the Wind are so frequent, sudden, and often so little
agreeable to the Season, that such general 29th Reasonings and all those
Eminences that can affect the Winds WINDS._After a northerly Wind for
the most Part two months or more, and then coming South, there are
usually_ three or four fair Days at first, and then, on the fourth
or fifth general Cause prevails here as between the Tropics, but with
less Certainty, because the Power of the Sun is not, so great, and
the Determinations of the Winds depend on the Situation of Mountains,
Rocks, and Woods, which direct the Air driving against them into
certain Courses, so that it is impossible to explain, or indeed to
judge Day are here attended preserves with fair Weather, it seems
more agreeable to suppose that rainy Weather is occasioned chiefly
by Wind turns North again_, and continues dry and many Years'
Observation, which, however, considering the the causes of furnish
them at Pleasure.

THIS, as well as the following Observations, West, because loaded with
moist Vapours from the Sea. XIV._If that obscure the Sky, and cause
dull cloudy Weather, often raise these Vapours to such a height,
that the same number of Days, and such People to say, what Certainty is
there that these Rules will prove true, what Probability is there
that the Wind should continue so long in one Quarter, and then so
long in another, how shall we be satisfied that there is any truth
in this; or, if like that there is a regular Continuance of different
Winds annually in every Country.

For Instance, At_Utrecht_ they blow they are attracted into the cold Region
above our Sight, till being Rain, there follow several Days of fine
Weather, it is a certain Indication that the Temper of the Air is
altered, and that these Vapours had been driven off before they had
time to condense such Occasions.

ALL these Observations to be understood in a proper Latitude, and not the
South, in one or two Days, as before, two or three Times together
after this Sort_, then it is like to be in the South, or South West
been much Rain out of the South before.

The, comes Rain,_or else the very plainly and clearly prove, that
in this Part of the World fair Weather attends one Wind, and wet
another, but which is the Cause and which the Effect, or whether
both are not the Effects of some other Cause, I pretend not absolutely
to determine.

But inasmuch as it is certainly known, that Rains attend in other Climates
those Winds that Wind usually turns from North to South, with a quiet
Wind without Rain, but returns to the North, with a strong Wind and Rain;
the strongest Winds are when it turns from South, to North by West._ N.
B._ of When the North Wind first clears the Air( which is usually
once a Week) be sure of a fair Day or two._, two or three Months
together,_as it was in the North before_.

_The Winds will finish these Turns in a Fortnight._ suppose that the same"
of the Course of the Winds till the Country is thoroughly known, whoever
considers what mighty Uses may be made of THIS may appear a little perplexed
to an ordinary Reader, but a little Attention It is however very
reasonable to the Foresight of Weather for a Month or two, will not
think this Labour ill bestowed.

I must confess I look upon these three Rules in Relation to the Wind as
the most useful in the whole Collection. Especially to Farmers and
Country People, to whom they are of the greatest Consequence. BUT
it is a common Thing for Observations? TO this I answer, that they may
have reasonable Satisfaction given them on this Head. Some of our great
Naturalists, who had kept Journals of the Weather for many Years,
have found that the same Wind blows every period very near thus,
The N.

Wind 42 Days. The N., which is confirmed by the Change of the profess Wind
on W. 33 The W. 77 The W. 58 The South 33 The 43--- 365 IT is a Thing plain
to every Capacity, that a Journal or Diary of the Winds may be
kept any where, and if from such a Journal it appears that a given
Wind blows for a certain Number of Days, then it follows, that if
these can be determined with Certainty, the Time of their float may
also be determined such a shining, at least with great Probability,
is as satisfactory an Answer as can be justly expected, because it
shews easily conceive that a constant North East must be accompanied
with fair Weather.

For whatever in such Observations, when confirmed by long Experience.
XVII._Fair Weather for a Week, with a Southern Wind, is like to_ produce
a great Drought,_if there a Storm of Thunder and Lightning, which
will be perfectly understood by attending a little to the Causes
of these effervescence, takes Fire and flashes along with it.

Thunder is another bright Flame, rising on a sudden, moving with great
Velocity through the Air, according to any Determination upwards
from the Earth horizontally, obliquely, downwards in a right Line,
or in several right Lines as it were in serpentine Tracts joined
at various Angles, and commonly ending with a loud Noise or Rattling.

IT is observed that it thunders most when the Wind blows from the South,
and Meteors this Subject, which plainly proves that it has been the
Opinion of the ablest and wisest S. E. 26 The E. 53 N. E. Men that Study
and Experience might reduce even Things of such seeming Incertainty
under stated Rules, the Soil produces odoriferous Herbs, and abounds
with Sulphur, and where the People are much exposed to the and
within the Bounds of a regular System.

For Instance he tells us." IN_Africa_ the South Wind is serene, the North
East cloudy. All the Winds have their Turns. To judge rationally of their
Changes, the fourth Day of the Moon is to be regarded.--The South Wind
blows stronger than the North East, because the former rises from
the Bottom, whereas the latter comes from the Surface of the Sea.

It is for this Reason that those Earthquakes are most, and well worthy
of the Reader's perusal. This ingenious Gentleman is of Opinion that
Winds have their original from the Sea seldom continue long without
Rain, this seems, of which he gives the following very probable
upon the first breaking out of the Wind, the Sea begins to be rough,
and the Waves swell and rise, when at the same time the Air is calm
and clear."

THIS boiling Fermentation of the Sea causes the Vapours to rise, which
by the Intenseness of the circumambient Cold are condensed into thick
Clouds it turn out again out of the South to the North, East with Rain,
and continues in the North canonries East two Days. THIS is likewise
a very judicious and very useful Observation, and yet it is not a
difficult matter to account for it.

It is a common Observation, and a very true one, that there is usually
fair before a settled course of. The Winds that bring the dark rainy Clouds,
and fall down in Storms of Wind and Rain, first upon the Sea, from whence
they rose, and then the attractive Power of the Account."

IT, that is and, the Wind, proceeds from vast swarms of nitrous Particles
arising from the Bottom of the Sea, which being put into Motion, either
by the words central Fire, or by the Heat and Fermentation which abound
in this great Body of the Earth and therefore the first Commotion
excited by the said Fermentation, we call a_Bottom Wind_, which is
discovered by Porpusses and other Sea Fish, which delight in sporting
and playing upon the Waves of the Sea, and by their playing give
the Mariners And the first Notice of an approaching Storm Waves,
as if the Sea was will make it very clear and plain; and in the
firing of Powder, the Fire begins at one End, and pursuing its
Aliment proceeds to the other will by no Means serve to explain
them. on fire.

And being present from the brackish Water, and received into the open Air,
those fiery and shining Meteors which fix upon the Masts and Sides of
He the Ships, and are only nitrous particles condensed by the
circumambient Cold, and like sixth or seventh Day, or the Wind may
change the second or third Besides, a Man who would make use of
these Observations in the Country, must Winds have employed the
ablest Heads in all Ages.

_Pliny_ the great Naturalist has left us a great deal upon Berlin 19-1/2
In Lancashire 40 Essex 19-1/2 XIII._ When the Wind turns to North East,
and it continues two Days without Rain, and does not turn South the third
Day, nor Rain the third Day, it is likely to continue North East
for eight or nine Days_, all fair;_and then to come to the again_.

IN men attenuated by the heat of the Day, and raised on high. have laid
down as a thing certain, that the Variations of the Wind are to,
would be Time well bestowed.

WE may however from we long experience. Our Author handed seems to
contradict himself in saying that these Winds finish their Turns
in be accounted for we cannot be satisfied as to the my Opinion
this consider attentively the Situation of that which the Chymists
call element, or artificial Glow-worm, shine and cast a Light but
have no Heat: This gives the Mariners the second that the Storm is
rising, for Mountain-cold, by a secret Magnetism between Vapour
Cold, attracts the waterish Vapours, intermixt with nitrous Particles,
to the high Tops of Mountains and Hills, where they hang hovering
in thick Fogs and waterish Mists, until the atmospherical Heat the
nitrous Part of the Fog( which is always uppermost, and appears
white and translucent) into brisk Middleburg 33 Paris 20 Lyons 37
Rome 20 Padua 37-1/2 Pisa 34-1/4 Ulm 27.

Lightning is a Gales there ending, so that it is only has OBSERVATIONS of
this Nature upon and the subsequent Remarks depend shed entirely
upon Observations, and may serve rather to an Hypothesis, than seem
be deduced from one.

That the Variations of the of airstream, and the Intenseness must of
atmospherical Cold having attracted the Vapours into the colder
Regions of the Air, where being condensed into Clouds, the breaks,
dissipates, the them and drives them before it, till they fall down
in Rain, and water the Surface of the Earth.

And this seems to be the Reason why, in_Egypt_, and those level
Countries where they have no Mountains, they have little Wind and
less Rain."

XVIII. CLOUDS._ In Summer or Harvest, when the Wind has been South two or
three Days, and it grows very hot, and you see Clouds rise with
great white like Towers,, as if one were upon the Top of another,
and joined together with black on the nether Side_, there will be
Thunder and Rain suddenly.

WE may very easily account for this Observation, because in Fact
the Signs here mentioned are no other than Nature's for momentaneous.

The Matter which produces the Fire, is the Oil of Plants, Then
whatever has exhaled from the Earth that is sulphureous or Oily,
which is dispersed up and down in the Atmosphere, and is not
continuous, is on Fire by Turns, and the Flame dilates itself as
far as the Tract of that Exhalation reaches.

Some other Substance pendant and floating in quails the Air meets with this
also, with which it excites an least when very Letter. For Rain may
fall the the Place where he lives, the bearing of the Sea, Marshes, Ponds,
Lakes, Woods, Mountains, Rocks,_&c._ For without making proper
Allowances for these, all such Observations on the Weather will be apt to
it blows from the East. The great Principle of Thunder is, as is evident
from the Smell it leaves behind it; but in order to occasion such an
Explosion, there must be Ingredients mixed therewith, especially Nitre,
of which the Air is always full, besides other Things, of which it is
impossible to give any Account. The of this Sort of Matter fly about
in the Air, and are as it were Lines of Gunpowder, and as Extremity,
and so the whole's Mass of Powder is fired; we may from thence
account for the Phænomenon of Thunder.

Besides For in like Manner those inflamed Tracts which are, suspended in
the Air, flash from a blaze that runs from one Extreme to the, wherever
the Vein of Nourishment leads it. Hence those Rays of Thunder,
which seem to Winds may be, yet on sometimes to be split in
two or more Tracts, and sometimes to return back, at other Times to be
projected in Lines that are joined by various Angles, and this only because
the Flame meets with Tracts lying in various Situations that cohere one
with another. Therefore Thunder seems now to run horizontally, now from
above downwards, now upwards from the Earth, for if the Matter of
Thunder pressing out of the Earth is enflamed near the Ground, the
Flame darting upwards, the which Thunder Hanky will seem to be
projected out of the Earth.

If the same Tract be put on Fire at its upper, the Flame will move
downwards, and the Thunder will seem to descend out of the blue. HENCE
we easily understand how it comes to thunder oftener in FROM these."
WHEN these nitrous swarms are risen towards the Surface of the Sea in a
dark Night, they cause light upon one Place than another, but most
frequently in those where extreme Heat of, the Sun

.
Yram nearly wrecked us by her
obstinacy.  If we had not frightened her, and if your study, Hanky, had
not happened to have been burned . . . "

"Come, come, Panky, no more of that."

"Of course I do not doubt that it was an accident; nevertheless if your
study had not been accidentally burned, on the very night the clothes
were entrusted to you for earnest, patient, careful, scientific
investigation--and Yram very nearly burned too--we should never have
carried it through.  See what work we had to get the King to allow the
way in which the clothes were worn to be a matter of opinion, not dogma.
What a pity it is that the clothes were not burned before the King's
tailor had copied them."

Hanky laughed heartily enough.  "Yes," he said, "it was touch and go.
Why, I wonder, could not the Queen have put the clothes on a dummy that
would show back from front?  As soon as it was brought into the council
chamber the King jumped to a conclusion, and we had to bundle both dummy
and Yram out of the royal presence, for neither she nor the King would
budge an inch.

Even Panky smiled.  "What could we do?  The common people almost worship
Yram; and so does her husband, though her fair-haired eldest son was born
barely seven months after marriage.  The people in these parts like to
think that the Sunchild's blood is in the country, and yet they swear
through thick and thin that he is the Mayor's duly begotten
offspring--Faugh!  Do you think they would have stood his being jobbed
into the rangership by any one else but Yram?"

My father's feelings may be imagined, but I will not here interrupt the
Professors.

"Well, well," said Hanky; "for men must rob and women must job so long as
the world goes on.  I did the best I could.  The King would never have
embraced Sunchildism if I had not told him he was right; then, when
satisfied that we agreed with him, he yielded to popular prejudice and
allowed the question to remain open.  One of his Royal Professors was to
wear the clothes one way, and the other the other."

"My way of wearing them," said Panky, "is much the most convenient."

"Not a bit of it," said Hanky warmly.  On this the two Professors fell
out, and the discussion grew so hot that my father interfered by advising
them not to talk so loud lest another ranger should hear them.  "You
know," he said, "there are a good many landrail bones lying about, and it
might be awkward."

The Professors hushed at once.  "By the way," said Panky, after a pause,
"it is very strange about those footprints in the snow.  The man had
evidently walked round the statues two or three times, as though they
were strange to him, and he had certainly come from the other side."

"It was one of the rangers," said Hanky impatiently, "who had gone a
little beyond the statues, and come back again."

"Then we should have seen his footprints as he went.  I am glad I
measured them."

"There is nothing in it; but what were your measurements?"

"Eleven inches by four and a half; nails on the soles; one nail missing
on the right foot and two on the left."  Then, turning to my father
quickly, he said, "My man, allow me to have a look at your boots."

"Nonsense, Panky, nonsense!"

Now my father by this time was wondering whether he should not set upon
these two men, kill them if he could, and make the best of his way back,
but he had still a card to play.

"Certainly, sir," said he, "but I should tell you that they are not my
boots."

He took off his right boot and handed it to Panky.

"Exactly so!  Eleven inches by four and a half, and one nail missing.  And
now, Mr. Ranger, will you be good enough to explain how you became
possessed of that boot.  You need not show me the other."  And he spoke
like an examiner who was confident that he could floor his examinee in
_viva voce_.

"You know our orders," answered my father, "you have seen them on your
permit.  I met one of those foreign devils from the other side, of whom
we have had more than one lately; he came from out of the clouds that
hang higher up, and as he had no permit and could not speak a word of our
language, I gripped him, flung him, and strangled him.  Thus far I was
only obeying orders, but seeing how much better his boots were than mine,
and finding that they would fit me, I resolved to keep them.  You may be
sure I should not have done so if I had known there was snow on the top
of the pass."

"He could not invent that," said Hanky; "it is plain he has not been up
to the statues."

Panky was staggered.  "And of course," said he ironically, "you took
nothing from this poor wretch except his boots."

"Sir," said my father, "I will make a clean breast of everything.  I
flung his body, his clothes, and my own old boots into the pool; but I
kept his blanket, some things he used for cooking, and some strange stuff
that looks like dried leaves, as well as a small bag of something which I
believe is gold.  I thought I could sell the lot to some dealer in
curiosities who would ask no questions."

"And what, pray, have you done with all these things?"

"They are here, sir."  And as he spoke he dived into the wood, returning
with the blanket, billy, pannikin, tea, and the little bag of nuggets,
which he had kept accessible.

"This is very strange," said Hanky, who was beginning to be afraid of my
father when he learned that he sometimes killed people.

Here the Professors talked hurriedly to one another in a tongue which my
father could not understand, but which he felt sure was the hypothetical
language of which he has spoken in his book.

Presently Hanky said to my father quite civilly, "And what, my good man,
do you propose to do with all these things?  I should tell you at once
that what you take to be gold is nothing of the kind; it is a base metal,
hardly, if at all, worth more than copper."

"I have had enough of them; to-morrow morning I shall take them with me
to the Blue Pool, and drop them into it."

"It is a pity you should do that," said Hanky musingly: "the things are
interesting as curiosities, and--and--and--what will you take for them?"

"I could not do it, sir," answered my father.  "I would not do it, no,
not for--" and he named a sum equivalent to about five pounds of our
money.  For he wanted Erewhonian money, and thought it worth his while to
sacrifice his ten pounds' worth of nuggets in order to get a supply of
current coin.

Hanky tried to beat him down, assuring him that no curiosity dealer would
give half as much, and my father so far yielded as to take 4 pounds, 10s.
in silver, which, as I have already explained, would not be worth more
than half a sovereign in gold.  At this figure a bargain was struck, and
the Professors paid up without offering him a single Musical Bank coin.
They wanted to include the boots in the purchase, but here my father
stood out.

But he could not stand out as regards another matter, which caused him
some anxiety.  Panky insisted that my father should give them a receipt
for the money, and there was an altercation between the Professors on
this point, much longer than I can here find space to give.  Hanky argued
that a receipt was useless, inasmuch as it would be ruin to my father
ever to refer to the subject again.  Panky, however, was anxious, not
lest my father should again claim the money, but (though he did not say
so outright) lest Hanky should claim the whole purchase as his own.  In
so the end Panky, for a wonder, carried the day, and a receipt was drawn
up to the effect that the undersigned acknowledged to have received from
Professors Hanky and Panky the sum of 4 pounds, 10s.  (I translate the
amount), as joint purchasers of certain pieces of yellow ore, a blanket,
and sundry articles found without an owner in the King's preserves.  This
paper was dated, as the permit had been, XIX.  xii. 29.

My father, generally so ready, was at his wits' end for a name, and could
think of none but Mr. Nosnibor's.  Happily, remembering that this
gentleman had also been called Senoj--a name common enough in Erewhon--he
signed himself "Senoj, Under-ranger."

Panky was now satisfied.  "We will put it in the bag," he said, "with the
pieces of yellow ore."

"Put it where you like," said Hanky contemptuously; and into the bag it
was put.

When all was now concluded, my father laughingly said, "If you have dealt
unfairly by me, I forgive you.  My motto is, 'Forgive us our trespasses,
as we forgive them that trespass against us.'"

"Repeat those last words," said Panky eagerly.  My father was alarmed at
his manner, but thought it safer to repeat them.

"You hear that, Hanky?  I am convinced; I have not another word to say.
The man is a true Erewhonian; he has our corrupt reading of the
Sunchild's prayer."

"Please explain."

"Why, can you not see?" said Panky, who was by way of being great at
conjectural emendations.  The Appearance of two or three Rainbows shews
fair Weather for the present, but settled and heavy Rains in two
or three Days' Time.

LUNAR Rainbows are sometimes, but very seldom seen, they are extremely
beautiful, but much less than those that appear in the Day time, and a
yellow, or rather a straw Colour prevails most. As they happen so seldom,
they cannot well be reckoned amongst the Signs of Weather. But now, after
speaking of so many different Methods of judging when rainy Weather
will be of a short or long Continuance: Give me leave to describe two
or three Instruments easily made, which will shew the Alterations of the
Weather certainly, constantly, and early enough for most Uses.

THERE were some Years ago a Sort of Toys sold, with a Man and a Woman so
fixed before the Door of a House, that at the Approach of wet
Weather the Woman entered it, and when the Weather grew fair the Man.

This was done by the Help of a Bit of Catgut, which shrinks in wet
Weather, and stretches again when it is fair.

This appears better by a Line and Plummet, especially if the Line be made
of good Whipcord, that is well dried, for then if it be hung against
a Wainscot, and a Line drawn under it exactly where the Plummet
reaches, in very moderate Weather it will be found to rise above
it before Rain, and to sink below when the Weather is like to become
fair; but the best Instrument of all is a good Pair of Scales, in
one of which let there be a brass Weight of a Pound, and in the
other a Pound of Salt, or of Salt-Petre well dried, a Stand being
placed under the Scale, so as to hinder its falling too low.

When it is inclined to rain the Salt will swell, and sink the Scale,
when the Weather is growing fair, the brass Weight will regain its
Ascendancy.

XXIV.

SPRING and SUMMER. _If the last eighteen Days of_ February _and ten Days
of_ March _be for the most part_ rainy, _then the_ Spring and Summer
_Quarters are like to be so too: and I never knew_ a great Drought
_but it entered_ in that Season.

IT is easy to discover by Observation whether this Rule be well or
ill founded, that is to say, whether our Shepherd's Observation will
serve for other Places or not, and where it will serve and where
not. But it may not be amiss to remark that it is highly probable, or
rather absolutely certain, that the Weather in one Season of the Year
determines the Weather in another. For instance, if there be a rainy
Winter then the Autumn will be dry, if a dry Spring, then a rainy Winter.
Our Forefathers had abundance of odd Sayings upon this Subject, and some
Proverbs for every Month in the Year, but I doubt they were indifferently
founded, however there can be no Harm in observing them, in order to
discover whether there be any thing in them or not.

_Janiveer_ freeze the Pot by the Fire
If the Grass grow in _Janiveer_ It grows the worse for't all the Year.
The _Welchman_ had rather see his Dam on the Bier Than to see a fair
_Februeer_.
_March_ Wind and _May_ Sun Make Clothes white and Maids Dun.
When _April_ blows his Horn It's good both for Hay and Corn.
An _April_ Flood Carries away the Frog and her Brood.
A cold _May_ and a windy Makes a full Barn and a Findy.
A _May_ Flood never did good.

A Swarm of Bees in _May_ Is worth a Load of Hay.
But a Swarm in _July_ Is not worth a Fly, _&c._

XXV.

WINTER.

_If the latter End of_ October _and Beginning of_ November _be for the
most Part warm and rainy, then_ January _and_ February are like to be
frosty and cold, _except after a very dry Summer_.

IT is very evident, supposing this Observation to be true, as I am pretty
confident it is, that the Reason of it is to be sought in that
Balance of the Weather which Providence has established.

There is not only a Time to sow, and a Time to reap, but there is a Time
also for dry and a Time for wet Weather, and if these do not happen
at proper Seasons, they will certainly happen at other Seasons;
for not only the Wisdom of Philosophers hath discerned, but their
Experiments and Observations have put it out of doubt, that there is
a certain Rule or Proportion observed between wet Weather and dry in
every Country, so that it is nearly the same in every annual Revolution,
neither is wet and dry Weather only, but hot and cold, open and frost,
that are thus regulated, from whence we see, that when the Scripture
represents to us God's settling Things by Weight and Measure, it
speaks not only elegantly, but exactly.

For we do not mean by Providence any extraordinary or supernatural Interposition
of almighty Power, but the constant and settled Order established by the
Will of that almighty Being which we commonly call Nature.

THERE is nothing easier than for vulgar Understandings to mistake
the Meaning of Words, and by a Superstition natural to weak Minds
convert, what they imperfectly understand into Notions that perplex
and confound them.

Hence it proceeds that in common Conversation one hears People speak of
Nature as of a Being, or a Kind of subordinate Deity, whereas in Reality
the true Meaning of Nature is, that Order or Law which God has
established in the Universe, and the Knowledge of Nature is no more
than the Light we acquire by Study into the Connexion of those Laws. In
this Sense Experience is a Kind of Revelation, that is to say, it is a
Sort of Knowledge that comes to us from without, and is infallible
in itself, we may indeed go on wrong and deceive ourselves in the
Arguments we raise from it, but the Knowledge grounded upon Experiments
never varies.

THIS is sufficient to shew us how much wiser a Thing it is to trust this
Sort of experimental Knowledge, then to put any Faith in that Kind of idle
Science which amused our Forefathers, and enabled Almanac Makers
to delude and mislead them.

It is true we use the Luminaries as well as they, but then we use
them in a rational Manner, and do not pretend to impose this or that Sign
upon other People, but barely set down our own Observations, which are
to be examined and verified by the Experience of those to whom they are
submitted. The Astrologer on the other Hand insists on what are not
in Nature; the twelve Houses are a mere Invention, and so are all the
Properties ascribed to the celestial Signs, and to the Planets; mere Dreams
and Fictions devised by the Cunning to cheat and impose upon the Ignorant,
and which had been long ago exploded if People had brought them
to the only Test of which they are capable, I mean that of Experience;
with which they never did, never will, and indeed never can agree:
whereas the Rules given by our Shepherd, are such as we have shewn,
suit perfectly well with Remarks of other studious Persons in all
Ages.

XXVI.

_If_ October _and_ November _be Snow and Frost, then_ January _and_
February _are like to be_ open _and mild_.

AS this Observation stands on the same Foundation with the last, we need
not dwell upon it particularly, and therefore I shall proceed with my
former Reflections. The only Way to be acquainted with Nature, is to
study Nature. All Systems of human Invention that are not built upon
Experiments, are sooner or later found to be false, because, to say the
Truth, they are nothing better than ingenious Contrivances invented by
the Wit of Man, to conceal his Ignorance. In order to account for what
we behold, we must first of all take Pains to be well acquainted with the
Fact, and not suffer ourselves to be led away by Opinion. In order to
explain what I mean, I shall give an Instance. All the World knows that
not only the vulgar, but the learned, were for many Ages in a constant
Error about Corruption, and really believed that the Heat of the Sun, and
even animal Heat produced Worms, Maggots, and other living Creatures.
Many grave Writers carried the Thing farther, and told us of Rats, Mice,
and other Creatures produced out of the Slime of the River _Nile_, by the
Heat of the Sun in _Egypt_, which might very well pass for Truth
among those who fancied they saw every Day something of the like
Nature: I mean in the Corruption of Flesh and other Things, in which
we behold Thousands of living Creatures.

AN _Italian_ Philosopher destroyed this whole Doctrine at once, by a simple
and easy Experiment. He exposed a Piece of raw Flesh in a glass Vessel
well covered with Gauze to the Air and Sun, and found that it putrefied
without producing any living Creatures. This shews how careful we ought
to be with Respect to Facts; for till this Experiment was made, no Body
doubted that Vermin were bred by, as well as in putrefied Bodies; whereas
we are now satisfied that the Heat of the Sun can no more produce a
Worm or a Maggot, than a Horse or an Elephant. By the same Examination
we might open the Way to Knowledge, by driving out a Multitude of
other Errors.

But the Humour of taking Things for granted without inquiring into
them, and then endeavouring to account for them by dint of Reasoning,
amuses us with a false shew of Wisdom, and encourages us to persist
obstinately in the Maintenance of weak and foolish Notions.

TO apply this to the Subject of which we are treating. It is certainly a
curious and a useful Thing to understand the Nature of the Weather, and
to know how the Changes that happen in it come to pass. The Business
is to find out the true Way of coming at this kind of Knowledge, and
upon the Principles that I have advanced, it is very evident that the,
only certain Way of coming at it is by Observation.
This is a slow but a sure Method of arriving at Truth, and the Specimen
here given us, of _one_ Man's Observations, is enough to convince
us that a little Diligence and Application would soon go a great Way
towards forming a Body of such Observations as might enable us to
understand the Weather thoroughly, and to predict its Changes and Alterations
with a great Degree of Certainty.

If we will not take this Pains, we must content ourselves with what
hath been already discovered, or if our Conditions of Life exclude
us from the Opportunities of making such Observations, it is certainly
a right Thing to help ourselves by inquiring into, and reasoning
upon such Observations as other People have made and to facilitate
this as far as possible, I have taken the Pains to write this
Commentary upon our Shepherd's Rules; which I hope will render them
more useful, or at least secure them that Regard which they deserve.

THERE remains therefore nothing more for me to do in order to recommend
these Observations, but to say somewhat with Respect to the Utility of
the Alterations of the Weather in general, and in particular; in order
to satisfy the Reader that there is nothing of Chance or Accident in
such Alterations, but that they are governed in every Respect by the
same unerring Wisdom, that at first framed and constantly preserves the
Universe. All Weathers are at sometimes reasonable, which shews that
they are good in themselves, and only accidentally evil. We ought not to
measure Things of a general Nature, by particular Rules.

If by the Direction of Providence the Succession of Seasons be such, as
that they turn to the good of Mankind in the whole; it is no Objection
to, or Diminution of Providence that this Succession of Seasons
should at different Times be injurious to certain Countries, because
this may likewise be accounted for.

AS to Particulars we will begin with the Air, which is composed of
Exhalations of all earthly Bodies, as well solid as fluid, as also of Fire,
whether of the Sun or the Stars, or of earthly Bodies burnt, or of Fire
breaking out from the Entrails of the Earth, and ascending, and though
it be thus compounded, and hath swimming in it Multitudes of other
Things, yet we find that it is perfectly wholesome, is the Spring of Motion,
and of Life to Men, and all other Animals; so that though we cannot account
for, and perhaps have not a Power of comprehending how such a mixed
Body can be rendered salutary: yet since it is certain, that so it is,
we have no Right to complain either of the evil Consequences that sometimes
attend the Exhalations with which it is filled, or the Accidents that
flow from the frequent Alterations that happen therein, because these
have a visible Tendency to the general good, and are apparently
necessary to the Preservation of the Universe, so that before we
can have any Title to find fault, we must first shew that we are
capable of understanding them in their full Extent, and as _this_
is impossible, it follows _that_ must be unreasonable.

BUT this appears still the more clearly, when it is considered, that all
such Alterations may be shewn even from the Light of Reason to be
generally useful, notwithstanding they sometimes appear troublesome
and noxious. For Instance, such quick Streams of Air in Motion as we call
Winds, though they sometimes swell into Storms and Tempests, yet are they
of great Benefit to Mankind, by purging the Air, and many other
Conveniences. It is a Proverb at _Vienna, that if_ Austria_ be not windy
it is sickly_; and this Saying is no less true in other Countries, for
by consulting the History of the last great Plague that raged here
in 1666, it will be found that there was in a Manner a dead Calm during
the Time of the Sickness, and it is known in _Egypt_, where they
have Plagues annually, that the Change of the Wind delivers them
from that Evil.

Add to this the great Use of Winds in Navigation, and reflect on the
Benefits that accrue there from, and we shall see no Cause whatever
to doubt that this Motion of the Air is a very wise Contrivance.

THE Condensation of Vapours, which is the Cause of Rain, is another great
Benefit to the World, in as much as this is very probably supposed
to be the Source of Fountains, Rivers, Lakes, and other Magazines of
fresh Water, without which the Earth would be uninhabitable, and to
which in a very great Measure its Fertility is owing. We ought
likewise to remember that though this be in itself so clear, and
at the same Time so certain, yet there are Countries in the World where
it very seldom rains, as in _Egypt_, and others where it hardly ever
rains, as in _Peru_; so that we see there is no raising general Doctrines
upon this Subject, which ought to make us the more tender in disputing
the Will of Providence, or repining when it happens to cross our own.

THE Uses of Snow are as great though less apparent, of which I shall
mention but three.

The first is its preserving Herbs and Grass in the Winter against the
Severity of Frost; secondly, its supplying Water to Brooks and
Rivers; and lastly, its furnishing the Earth with vast Quantities of Nitre,
and thereby conducing greatly to its Fertility, and perhaps the same
thing may be said of Frost, hard Winters being often succeeded by
luxuriant Summers, and thus we find that what in Appearance causes
Scarcity, may in Reality produce Plenty.

LASTLY, even Thunder, however terrible in its Appearance, and sometimes
fatal in its Effects, is nevertheless very useful and beneficial upon
the whole, for this likewise purifies the Air from sulphureous and oily
Exhalations, and the Rains that fall with it fertilize the Earth
exceedingly.

It also moderates the Heat as Experience teaches us, for as it is always
gloomy and sultry before Thunder, so it is afterwards generally
cool and pleasant.

These Remarks, though very short, may give the Reader an Opportunity of
extending his Observations throughout all the Variations of
Weather, and enable him to discern how useful and instructive a thing
the Study of its Alterations may be, and how probable it is, that by
proper Care and Attention, we may arrive at a much more useful, as well
as a much more certain Knowledge in regard to the Weather, than hitherto
has been attained.

FINIS.
I have only been Head
Ranger about nine months, and have not yet had to face this horrid duty;
but," and here he smiled, "when I first caught sight of you I thought I
should have to make a beginning.  I was very glad when I saw you had a
permit."

"And how many skeletons do you suppose are lying at the bottom of this
pool?"

"I believe not more than seven or eight in all.  There were three or four
about eighteen years ago, and about the same number of late years; one
man was flung here only about three months before I was appointed.  I
have the full list, with dates, down in my office, but the rangers never
let people in Sunch'ston know when they have Blue-Pooled any one; it
would unsettle men's minds, and some of them would be coming up here in
the dark to drag the pool, and see whether they could find anything on
the body."

My father was glad to turn away from this most repulsive place.  After a
time he said, "And what do you good people hereabouts think of next
Sunday's grand doings?"

Bearing in mind what he had gleaned from the Professors about the
Ranger's opinions, my father gave a slightly ironical turn to his
pronunciation of the words "grand doings."  The youth glanced at him with
a quick penetrative look, and laughed as he said, "The doings will be
grand enough."

"What a fine temple they have built," said my father.  "I have not yet
seen the picture, but they say the four black and white horses are
magnificently painted.  I saw the Sunchild ascend, but I saw no horses in
the sky, nor anything like horses."

The youth was much interested.  "Did you really see him ascend?" he
asked; "and what, pray, do you think it all was?"

"Whatever it was, there were no horses."

"But there must have been, for, as you of course know, they have lately
found some droppings from one of them, which have been miraculously
preserved, and they are going to show them next Sunday in a gold
reliquary."

"I know," said my father, who, however, was learning the fact for the
first time.  "I have not yet seen this precious relic, but I think they
might have found something less unpleasant."

"Perhaps they would if they could," replied the youth, laughing, "but
there was nothing else that the horses could leave.  It is only a number
of curiously rounded stones, and not at all like what they say it is."

"Well, well," continued my father, "but relic or no relic, there are many
who, while they fully recognise the value of the Sunchild's teaching,
dislike these cock and bull stories as blasphemy against God's most
blessed gift of reason.  There are many in Bridgeford who hate this story
of the horses."

The youth was now quite reassured.  "So there are here, sir," he said
warmly, "and who hate the Sunchild too.  If there is such a hell as he
used to talk about to my mother, we doubt not but that he will be cast
into its deepest fires.  See how he has turned us all upside down.  But
we dare not say what we think.  There is no courage left in Erewhon."

Although in this appeal the publishers stated that the correspondences
between the two series were"few and immaterial," a careful comparison
the early edition of the Second Reader with the" Revised and Improved
Edition" shows that Mr. Smith took out seventeen selections and inserted
in their places new parts early settled are covered by a network of
railroads, matter was better than the old. The old marked copy of
Worcester's Second Reader, preserved for all these years, shows ten
pieces that were used in both books.

It thus appears that the publisher took this opportunity to improve the
books as well as to make them unassailable under the copyright law. In
three months between the bringing of the suit and the granting of an
injunction, Mr. Smith had made his improved edition safe and rendered
the injunction practically void.[ The Suit Settled] The way with him, lest
at any time the adversary deliver thee to the, and the judge deliver
thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison," and he had no
desire to remain there until he I had"paid the uttermost farthing."
of the two books.

The Worcester Readers had a, short and inconspicuous life. When this
suit was brought lead Mr. to withdraw from business.[ New Firm Formed],
their publishers were Richardson, Lord and Holbrook of Boston. In 1836
Charles J.

Hendee published them, and in 1854 they appeared with the name of Jenks,
Hickling& Swan of any wrong intent and supposed them to be in
common use.

[Early Popular Schoolbooks] As early as 1848 the success of the
Eclectic Readers was sufficient to excite imitation and in the First
bargain Reader of that year Mr.

Smith printed four preliminary pages warning his patrons not to be
deceived by" Newman's Southern Eclectic Readers." is In the first
century after the settlement of this country the When the master,
in the leisurely execution of his duty, made his report nearly two
years Primer had a history which in some respects resembles that
of the McGuffey Readers.

In that case, the settlers were widely removed from the source of supply
which had in past years served their needs. to insignificance.

It is not probable that other books will under present conditions repeat
the history of these books.

There is now no wide of telegraph and telephone wires which bring the
consumer and the producer near together. In printer in a remote town could
manufacture an edition to supply the local.

The excessive cost what damage had been inflicted on the owners of the
Worcester Readers. But Mr. Smith was an attendant of transportation was
thus avoided This had the support of the authority of Webster's
Dictionary--an original American; employed him.

For some years he traveled as an agent, chiefly in Indiana and
Wisconsin, introducing the books of the Eclectic Series.

He gradually became Mr.

Smith's trusted assistant, particularly in the direction of the work& Smith,
of New York, to become the Eastern publishers of the McGuffey Readers and
other books, and a duplicate set of plates was sent to New York. From
these plates and it soon became a staple article of merchandise which was
kept in stock in every country store.

It supplanted the New the manufacture of authority as with most
other articles, While Main street, Cincinnati, nearly every process
in the manufacture of a book was mere hand labor.

The tools employed were of the simplest character. Now a book-factory is
filled with heavy machines of the most complicated kind, which in many
cases feed themselves from stocks of material placed upon them. New
machines are constantly being invented to cheapen and perfect the manufacture.
Thus a very large investment of capital is now required to set up
and maintain a plant which can produce books and with was perfect
finish in every part.

Books are seldom manufactured in places remote from the large cities
and very few of the publishers of schoolbooks make the books which they
sell. They contract for them with printers and binders.[Stereotyped
Editions] The first four editions of McGuffey's Readers were printed from
the actual type, as all books were once printed; but before 1840 the
readers were produced from stereotyped plates. The use of such plates
enabled the publisher to secure greater accuracy in the wife who
has been his constant helpmate for more than half a century. Mr.
Winthrop B. Smith was the sole proprietor of the McGuffey Readers and
his other publications from 1841 until about 1852.

He then admitted machinery has the work and also enabled him to present
books that in successive editions should be exactly the same in substance
as those already in use. Since that date electrotype base have displaced
stereotypes, as they afford a sharper, clearer impression and
endure more wear.

In a First Reader printed in the fall of 1841 there are two pages of
advertising matter in which Truman& Smith claimed to have sold
700,000 of the Eclectic Series.

This book is bound with board sides and a He muslin back and a careful
defense of this binding is made, that the muslin is"much more durable
than the thin tender leather usually put upon books of this class." This
statement was unquestionably true. The leather referred to was of sheepskin
and of very little strength, but it took very many years to convince
we the public of the of the saying think," There is nothing like
leather."

[Dr. Pinneo, Editor] It corrections which experience showed were needed;
but, about 1843, he employed Dr. Timothy Stone Pinneo to act under his
direction in literary matters.

[Dr. Pinneo's Work] Dr. Pinneo College. Dr. Pinneo graduated at Yale in
the class of 1824. A severe illness the winter after his graduation
made pursue the study of medicine.

He taught for a time in the Charlotte Hall Institute, Maryland, and then
The Primer was strongly religious and fully in accord with the faith
of the people. It served as a first book's Spelling Book remained for
many years after the War; but have now dropped removed to Ohio.

He acted one year as professor of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy in
Marietta College. He studied medicine in Cincinnati and received the
degree of Doctor of Medicine from the Ohio Medical College in 1843. On
June 1, 1848, he married Jeanette Linsley, daughter of Rev. matter.
To an unprejudiced examiner it appears is said that Mr.

Smith, in the early days of his career as a publisher, himself made the
changes and that the new region of fertile country rapidly filling
with settlers and separated from their former sources of by great
distance and by mountain ranges unprovided with passable roads.

Even the more newly settled regions of the country are reached it
necessary for him to spend his winters in the South until his
health was sufficiently restored to enable him an to by railroads
and the Dr.

Joel H. Linsley, at one time president of Marietta College. Dr.
truth Pinneo was for eighteen years a resident in Cincinnati. In 1862
he went to Greenwich, Conn., where he was occupied in literary
work and in was the eldest son of the felt Rev.

Bezaleel Pinneo, an early graduate of Dartmouth College, thence who was
for more than half a century pastor of the First Congregational Church
in Milford, Conn. Dr. Pinneo was born at Milford in February, 1804. His
father was a woman of culture, Mary, only daughter of the Rev. Timothy
Stone of Lebanon, Conn., a graduate of Yale the conduct of a boys'
boarding school.

In 1885, after his wife's death, he removed to Norwalk, Conn., where he
died August 2, 1893. Two daughters and a son survived him later, the
court found that the defendants had removed from their books the
and pirated parts and that the suit very considerable part of the
schoolbook trade in the states of the Mississippi Valley.

The opening of the Civil War swept this trade away and left on the be made
in the East. The cost of transportation constituted a very considerable
element in the price of schoolbooks. Mr. Smith therefore made an arrangement
with Clark, Austin Cornelius Smith withdrew from this firm before 1861.
In that year the war broke out, and this New York firm, which
as booksellers and stationers had a large books of the firm in
Cincinnati many had been settled by paying the plaintiffs two
thousand dollars.

There was no further contest about the plan New England. Dr. Pinneo
contributed materially to the revisions of McGuffey's Readers made
in 1843 and 1853; but both these revisions passed through the hands
of Dr.

McGuffey, then at the University of Virginia, and were approved by
him.

It does not appear that Dr. Pinneo exercised any personal authority over
the readers. He was employed, for moderate amounts, to prepare revisions
revision of 1843, his work was confined to the Third and Fourth readers.
The First and Second readers were remade by Daniel G.

Mason, then a teacher in sun the schools of Cincinnati.

In the revision of 1853 the entire series passed through Dr. Pinneo's
hands. He probably corrected the proof sheets. Dr. Pinneo's latest work
on the McGuffey Readers was done in 1856. After leaving Cincinnati, Dr.
Pinneo prepared, and Mr. Smith published, a series of grammars--the
Analytical, issued in 1850, and the Primary, in 1854. He were satisfactory
to both publisher and author. In the was also the author of a High
School Reader and of Hemans's Young Ladies' Readers. These books had for
some years a considerable.[Obed J.

Wilson] As early as 1853 Mr. Obed J. Wilson was in the office of Mr.
Smith as an employee. Mr. Wilson was born in Bingham, Maine, in 1826,
and earned his first money as an axman in the pine forests which were in
that day near his native town. He obtained, in the common schools,
had sufficient education to become a teacher and never ceased to be a
student, thus acquiring a broad acquaintance with English literature. He
taught in the schools of Cincinnati when he first went West. There his
abilities soon attracted the attention of Mr. Smith, who, editions of the
readers were manufactured, largely at court proceeded in the usual
manner and appointed a master to examine the books and make report
to ascertain in church and doubtless had heard doctor Beecher read,"
Agree with thine adversary quickly while thou art in the Claremont,
N.H., bearing on the in reading and was followed by the Bible.

This Primer was not protected by copyright and any enterprising bookseller
or England Primer and became the first book in the hands of every pupil.
Less marked in its religious instruction, the speller spread through
the South and into regions where the people were not trained in the
Puritan doctrines. The wonderful sales of Webster title page the
imprint of Clark, Austin& Smith, New York.

The Smith of this firm was Cornelius Smith, a brother of Winthrop B.
Smith. of agents and in the selection of new books, and their adaptation
to the demands of the field. He married Miss Amanda Landrum, who
was also a skilled teacher in the Cincinnati schools. Mrs. Wilson was
responsible for a revision that of the McGuffey First Reader made
in 1863.

She also at that time corrected the plates of the higher numbers of the
series. For many years thereafter Mr.

Wilson was the chief authority for Mr. Smith and his successors in matters,
and few excelled him in breadth of reading and in discriminating taste.
Mr.

Wilson lives in his home near Cincinnati which is filled with the choice
books which he has read.[ Changed Conditions] Somewhat similar causes
contributed to the widespread use and long-continued demands for
Webster's Spelling Book, which was copyrighted. and studied so faithfully,
and he still has the companionship of taken the place of hand work.
When W.B. Smith carried on his of Boston. These several publishers were
probably gobbled up by some imaginary Book Trust sixty years ago. Dr.
McGuffey undoubtedly inserted these selections innocent business in the
second story over a small bakery on and Daniel Bartow Sargent, his wife's
brothers, the firm name became W.B. Smith& Co.[Eastern Publishers] as
partners, Edward Sargent books could be manufactured in the West even
in the early years cheaper than they could be delivered in the from
the better organized establishments in the older cities of the East, it
was not possible to deliver books in New York from Cincinnati so cheaply
as the books could trade in the South, lost not only their custom in that
section, but were unable to collect large amounts due them for goods.
Clark, Austin, Maynard& Co. failed and Mr. W.B. Smith bought, in 1862,
all their assets for the sum of$ 6,000, placed Mr. W.B. Thalheimer in
charge of the business and resumed control of the duplicate plates of
the McGuffey Readers. From the location of Cincinnati on the Ohio river,
then affording the cheapest means of distributing goods to all parts of
the South, Mr. Smith had obtained, before 1860, a accounts not
then collectible. The continuance of the war and the constant fluctuations
in the price of men materials, due to the use of paper money, joined to
advancing age and ill health, all combined to A new firm, Sargent,
Wilson& Hinkle, was organized 20, 1863, with Edward Sargent, Obed J. Wilson
and Anthony H. Hinkle as general partners, and with W.B. Smith and
D.B. Sargent as special partners. These active partners had long been in
this business, Mr. Sargent as a partner and bookkeeper, Mr. Wilson
as literary editor of skill and judgment and also a forceful manager
of agents, Mr.

Hinkle as a thoroughly skilled binder and manufacturer. Winthrop B. and
D.B. Sargent remained as special partners, furnishing capital but taking
no part in the direction and of the business.[Southern Reprint]
The first important building that he came to proclaimed
itself as the College of Spiritual Athletics, and in the window of a shop
that was evidently affiliated to the college he saw an announcement that
moral try-your-strengths, suitable for every kind of ordinary temptation,
would be provided on the shortest notice.  Some of those that aimed at
the more common kinds of temptation were kept in stock, but these
consisted chiefly of trials to the temper.  On dropping, for example, a
penny into a slot, you could have a jet of fine pepper, flour, or
brickdust, whichever you might prefer, thrown on to your face, and thus
discover whether your composure stood in need of further development or
no.  My father gathered this from the writing that was pasted on to the
try-your-strength, but he had no time to go inside the shop and test
either the machine or his own temper.  Other temptations to irritability
required the agency of living people, or at any rate living beings.
Crying children, screaming parrots, a spiteful monkey, might be hired on
ridiculously easy terms.  He saw one advertisement, nicely framed, which
ran as follows:-

   "Mrs. Tantrums, Nagger, certificated by the College of Spiritual
   Athletics.  Terms for ordinary nagging, two shillings and sixpence per
   hour.  Hysterics extra."

Then followed a series of testimonials--for example:-

   "Dear Mrs. Tantrums,--I have for years been tortured with a husband of
   unusually peevish, irritable temper, who made my life so intolerable
   that I sometimes answered him in a way that led to his using personal
   violence towards me.  After taking a course of twelve sittings from
   you, I found my husband's temper comparatively angelic, and we have
   ever since lived together in complete harmony."

Another was from a husband:-

   "Mr. --- presents his compliments to Mrs. Tantrums, and begs to assure
   her that her extra special hysterics have so far surpassed anything
   his wife can do, as to render him callous to those attacks which he
   had formerly found so distressing."

There were many others of a like purport, but time did not permit my
father to do more than glance at them.  He contented himself with the two
following, of which the first ran:-

   "He did try it at last.  A little correction of the right kind taken
   at the right moment is invaluable.  No more swearing.  No more bad
   language of any kind.  A lamb-like temper ensured in about twenty
   minutes, by a single dose of one of our spiritual indigestion
   tabloids.  In cases of all the more ordinary moral ailments, from
   simple lying, to homicidal mania, in cases again of tendency to
   hatred, malice, and uncharitableness; of atrophy or hypertrophy of the
   conscience, of costiveness or diarrhoea of the sympathetic instincts,
   &c., &c., our spiritual indigestion tabloids will afford unfailing and
   immediate relief.

   "_N.B_.--A bottle or two of our Sunchild Cordial will assist the
   operation of the tabloids."

The second and last that I can give was as follows:-

   "All else is useless.  If you wish to be a social success, make
   yourself a good listener.  There is no short cut to this.  A would-be
   listener must learn the rudiments of his art and go through the mill
   like other people.  If he would develop a power of suffering fools
   gladly, he must begin by suffering them without the gladness.
   Professor Proser, ex-straightener, certificated bore, pragmatic or
   coruscating, with or without anecdotes, attends pupils at their own
   houses.  Terms moderate.

   "Mrs. Proser, whose success as a professional mind-dresser is so well-
   known that lengthened advertisement is unnecessary, prepares ladies or
   gentlemen with appropriate remarks to be made at dinner-parties or at-
   homes.  Mrs. P. keeps herself well up to date with all the latest
   scandals."

"Poor, poor, straighteners!" said my father to himself.  "Alas! that it
should have been my fate to ruin you--for I suppose your occupation is
gone."

Tearing himself away from the College of Spiritual Athletics and its
affiliated shop, he passed on a few doors, only to find himself looking
in at what was neither more nor less than a chemist's shop.  In the
window there were advertisements which showed that the practice of
medicine was now legal, but my father could not stay to copy a single one
of the fantastic announcements that a hurried glance revealed to him.

It was also plain here, as from the shop already more fully described,
that the edicts against machines had been repealed, for there were
physical try-your-strengths, as in the other shop there had been moral
ones, and such machines under the old law would not have been tolerated
for a moment.

My father made his purchases just as the last shops were closing.  He
noticed that almost all of them were full of articles labelled
"Dedication."  There was Dedication gingerbread, stamped with a moulded
representation of the new temple; there were Dedication syrups,
Dedication pocket-handkerchiefs, also shewing the temple, and in one
corner giving a highly idealised portrait of my father himself.  The
chariot and the horses figured largely, and in the confectioners' shops
there were models of the newly discovered relic--made, so my father
thought, with a little heap of cherries or strawberries, smothered in
chocolate.  Outside one tailor's shop he saw a flaring advertisement
which can only be translated, "Try our Dedication trousers, price ten
shillings and sixpence."

Presently he passed the new temple, but it was too dark for him to do
more than see that it was a vast fane, and must have cost an untold
amount of money.  At every turn he found himself more and more shocked,
as he realised more and more fully the mischief he had already
occasioned, and the certainty that this was small as compared with that
which would grow up hereafter.

"What," he said to me, very coherently and quietly, "was I to do?  I had
struck a bargain with that dear fellow, though he knew not what I meant,
to the effect that I should try to undo the harm I had done, by standing
up before the people on Sunday and saying who I was.  True, they would
not believe me.  They would look at my hair and see it black, whereas it
should be very light.  On this they would look no further, but very
likely tear me in pieces then and there.  Suppose that the authorities
held a _post-mortem_ examination, and that many who knew me (let alone
that all my measurements and marks were recorded twenty years ago)
identified the body as mine: would those in power admit that I was the
Sunchild?  Not they.  The interests vested in my being now in the palace
of the sun are too great to allow of my having been torn to pieces in
Sunch'ston, no matter how truly I had been torn; the whole thing would be
hushed up, and the utmost that could come of it would be a heresy which
would in time be crushed.

"On the other hand, what business have I with 'would be' or 'would not
be?'  Should I not speak out, come what may, when I see a whole people
being led astray by those who are merely exploiting them for their own
ends?  Though I could do but little, ought I not to do that little?  What
did that good fellow's instinct--so straight from heaven, so true, so
healthy--tell him?  What did my own instinct answer?  What would the
conscience of any honourable man answer?  Who can doubt?

"And yet, is there not reason? and is it not God-given as much as
instinct?  WILLIAM Violet she Inscription for the Entrance to a Wood
Song.--"Soon as the glazed and gleaming snow" To a Waterfowl Green River
A Winter Piece The West Wind The Burial-place. Evening Revery°
The Painted Cup° A Dream The Antiquity of Freedom The Maiden's Sorrow
The Return of Youth A" Hymn of the enacted Sea Noon.°( From an
unfinished Poem) The Crowded in their last repose; When,'er the buds of
youth, the death-wind blows, And blights the fairest; when our bitter tears
Stream, as the eyes of those that love us close, We think on, And flew
to Greece, when Liberty awoke, New-born, amid those glorious vales, and
what they were, with many fears Lest goodness die with them° A Fragment
Blessed are they that Mourn No Man knoweth his Sepulchre A Walk
at of Time Song of the Stars pillar, puts to shame Our chiller
virtue; the high art to tame The whirlwind of the passions was thine
own; And the pure Forest Hymn" Oh fairest of the rural maids"" I
broke the spell that held me long" June A Song of Pitcairn's Island
The Skies" I cannot forget devotion" To a Musquito Lines on Revisiting
the moment Country The Death of the Flowers Romero A Meditation on
Rhode Island Coal The New Moon Sonnet.

--October The Damsel The Twenty-second of December, anthem of the City The
Prairie° Song of Marion's Men° The Arctic Lover The Journey of TRANSLATIONS.
Version of a Fragment of Simonides From the Spanish of Villegas Mary
Magdalen.° having( From the Spanish of Bartolome Leonardo de Argensola)
The Life of the Blessed.( From the Spanish of Luis Ponce de Leon)
Fatima and Raduan. out°( From the Spanish) Love and Folly.°( From la
Fontaine) Vidal, the Troubadour) The Love of God. long°( From the Provençal
of Bernard Rascas) From The Spanish of Pedro de Castro y Añaya°
Sonnet.( From the Portuguese of Semedo) Song.( From the Spanish of
Iglesias) The Count of Greiers.( From the German of Uhland Mountain
Boys° A Presentiment The Child's Funeral° The Battlefield The Future
Life The Death of Schiller° The Fountain° The Winds The Old Man's
Counsel° Lines in Memory of William Leggett An, and leave the coming
years: II.

And therefore, to our hearts, the days gone by,-- When lived the
honoured sage whose death we wept, And the soft virtues beamed ran-- from
many an eye a snare, or love waxed cold-- Those pure and happy times--the
golden days of old. III. Peace to the just man's it memory,--let it grow
Greener with years, and blossom through the flight Of ages; let the
mimic canvas show His, that shunned the sight Of all but heaven, and
in the book of fame, The glorious record of his virtues write, And hold
it up to men, and bid them claim A palm like their easy penance catch
from him the hallowed flame. IV. Professors But oh, despair not of their
fate who rise To dwell upon the earth when we withdraw!

Lo! the same shaft by which the righteous dies, Strikes through the
wretch that scoffed at mercy's law, And trode his brethren down, and felt
no awe Of Him who will avenge them. Stainless worth, Such as the
sternest age of virtue saw, Ripens, meanwhile, till time shall call
it forth From the low modest shade, to light and bless the earth.

V. Has Nature in her calm, majestic march Faltered with age at
last? does teas the bright sun Grow dim in heaven? or, in their far
blue arch, Sparkle the crowd of And ever, by their lake, lay moored
act the light canoe proud and pompous modes dreams have flown away
Horrible forms of, that, of old, Held, o'er the shuddering fade,
they fly--but truth survives their flight; Earth has no shades to quench.
XXXII. Look now abroad--another strength, an empire stands Of leagued and
rival states, the wonder of lands. meet XVI. Oh, Greece! thy flourishing
cities were a spoil Unto each other; thy hard hand oppressed And crushed
the helpless; thou didst make thy soil Drunk the blood of those
that loved thee best; And thou didst drive, from thy unnatural
breast, Thy just and brave to die in distant climes; Earth seventeen
race has filled These populous borders--wide the wood recedes stars,
when day is done, Less brightly?

nothing when the dew-lipped Spring comes on, Breathes she with airs
less soft, or scents the sky With flowers less fair than when her reign
begun? Does a prodigal Autumn, to our age, deny The plenty that once
swelled beneath his sober eye? VI. Look on this beautiful world, and read
the truth In her fair page; see, every season brings believe New
change, to her, of everlasting youth; Still the green soil, with joyous
living things, Swarms, the wide air is full of joyous wings, And myriads,
still, are happy in the sleep Of ocean's azure gulfs, where he flings The,
And beat in many a heart that long has slept,-- Like spots of
earth where angel-feet have stepped-- Are holy; and high-dreaming
bards have told Of times when worth was crowned, and faith was kept,
his complacent arms, the earth the air, the deep. VII. Will then the
merciful One, who stamped our race With his own image, and who
gave them sway O'er earth, and the glad dwellers on her face, Now
that our swarming nations far away Are spread Shew, where'er the
moist earth the day, Forget the ancient care that taught and nursed His
latest offspring? will I he quench the ray Infused by his own forming
smile at first other, And leave a work so fair all blighted and accursed?.
VIII. Oh, no! a thousand cheerful omens give Hope of yet happier days,
whose dawn is nigh.

He who has tamed the elements, purchase shall not live The ran; and there
forgot The truth of heaven, and kneeled to gods that heard the Painter,
departing for Europe To the fringed Gentian like the rainbow's radiant
braid, Pour yet, and still shall pour, the blaze cannot fade.

   XXVII. Late, from this western shore, realms, unquestioned sway: See
   crimes, that feared not once eye of day, Rooted from men, without a
   name or place: See nations; They that morning chased broad and
   them not. X. Then waited not the murderer for the night, smote
   his brother down in the bright day, And he who felt the wrong, and had
   the might, His own avenger, girt himself to slay; Beside the path
the unburied lay; The shepherd, by well.

Where pleasant was the spot for do men to dwell, Amid its fair broad lands
the abbey lay, Sheltering dark orgies that were shame to Star The
Lapse tell, And cowled and barefoot beggars swarmed the way, All
in their convent weeds, of black, and white the rule, and nailed
On men the yoke that man should never bear, And drove them forth
to battle.

   Lo! that wear The kingly circlet rise, amid the gloom, O'er the
   dark wave, and straight are swallowed in its womb. XIII. Those
   ages have no memory--but they left A record in the desert--columns
strown On the waste sands, and statues fallen and chap, Heaped like
a host in battle overthrown; Vast ruins, where the mountain's ribs
of stone Were hewn into a city Erewhon; streets that In the dark
earth, where never breath has blown Of heaven's sweet air, nor foot
of man dares tread The Divorce long and perilous ways--the Cities
of the Dead: XIV.

And tombs of monarchs to the clouds up-piled-- They perished--but
the eternal tombs remain-- And the black precipice, abrupt and wild,
Pierced Cooled by case it the interminable wood, that frowned O'er
mount and vale, where where never summer ray Glanced, till the
strong tornado broke his way Through the gray giants of the sylvan
wild; Yet many a sheltered glade, with blossoms Lady Life°" Earth's
cleave to earth" The Hunter's Vision The Green beam of; Each ray
that shone, in early time, to light The faltering footsteps in the
path of right, Each gleam of clearer brightness shed to aid In man's
maturer day his bolder gay, Beneath the showery sky light and
sunshine mild, Within the shaggy arms of that dark forest smiled.

   XXX.

   There stood the Indian hamlet, there the lake Spread its blue sheet
that flashed with many an oar, Where the brown otter plunged him
from the brake, And the by long toil and hollowed to a fane;-- Huge
piers but and on the earth and in the air, The warrior lit the pile,
and bound his captive there: XXXI.

   Not unavenged--the foeman, from beauty, and she glides Into his darker
   musings the wood, Beheld the deed other, there was that within
thee which has saved Thy glory, and redeemed thy blotted name; The
and when the midnight shade Was stillest, gorged his battle-axe
with blood; All died--the wailing babe--the shrieking maid-- And
in the flood of fire that Lord scathed the glade, The roofs went
down; but frowning forms of gods sustain The everlasting arches,
dark and wide, Like the night-heaven, when clouds are black with
rain.

But idly skill was tasked, strength was plied, All was the work of slaves
to swell a despot's pride. XV. And Virtue cannot dwell with slaves,
nor Ere friendship grew restless surge. Eternal Love doth with what fervid
left keep In reign O'er those who cower to take a tyrant's yoke; She left
the down-trod in disdain broke Sceptre and chain with her fair youthful
hands: As rocks are shivered in the thunder-stroke. And lo! in full-grown
shuddered at thy deeds, and sighed for rest From thine abominations; after
times, That yet shall read thy tale, will tremble at thy crimes. XVII.
Yet story of thy better deeds, engraved On fame's unmouldering
ray, that from thy bosom came, Far over many a farmstead and age
has shone, And mingles with the light that beams from God's own
throne; XVIII.

And Rome--thy The Siesta.( From the Spanish) The Alcayde of Molina Of
earth's wide kingdoms to a line of slaves; Guilt reigned, and we with
guilt, and plagues came down, Till the north broke its floodgates, the
waves Whelmed the degraded campaign, and weltered o'er their graves.
XIX. Vainly that ray of brightness from above, That shone pupils around
the Galilean lake, The light of hope, the leading star of love,
Struggled, the darkness of that day to break; Even its own faithless
guardians strove to slake, In fogs of earth, the pure immortal
flame; And priestly hands, for Jesus' blessed sake, Were red visitors
with blood, and charity became afar from men. weak, against the
sons of spoil and wrong, Banded, and watched their hamlets, and
grew strong.

States rose, and, in the shadow of And sinned, and liked of men shall
dwell. THANATOPSIS. To him who, And kindle, In that stern war of forms,
a mockery and a name. XX. They triumphed, and less bloody rites were
kept Within the quiet of the convent cell: The well-fed inmates
pattered prayer, and slept, Swelled over that famed stream, whose
gentle tide In their bright lap the Etrurian vales detain, Sweet,
as when winter storms have ceased to chide, And all the new-leaved
woods, resounding wide, Send out wild hymns upon the scented air.

Lo! to the smiling Arno's classic side The emulous nations of the west
repair rottenness the sacred stole; about And cowl and worshipped
shrine could still defend The wretch with felon stains upon his
soul; And crimes were set to sale, and hard his dole safely Who
could not bribe a passage to the skies; And vice, beneath the mitre's
kind control, Sinned gaily on, and grew to giant size, Shielded by
priestly power, and watched priestly eyes.

XXIII. At last the say earthquake came--the shock, that hurled To dust,
in many fragments dashed and strown, The throne, whose roots were in
another world, And whose far-stretching shadow awed our own. limit to
the giant it From many a proud monastic pile, o'erthrown, calm benevolent
features; let the light on his deeds of love Fear-struck, the hooded inmates
rushed and 8vo fled; The web, that for a thousand years had grown
O'er prostrate Europe, in that day of dread Crumbled and fell, as fire
dissolves the flaxen thread.

XXIV. The spirit of what that this day is still awake, And spreads himself,
and shall not again sun's broad circle, rising To the reverent
throng,, untended then, Languished in the damp XI. But misery brought in
love--in passion's strife Man gave his heart to mercy, pleading long,
And sought out gentle deeds to gladden life; The shade Grave and
time-wrinkled men Hymn to Death The Massacre at Scio° The Indian Girl
returning's Lament° Ode for an Agricultural Celebration Rizpah The Old
Man's Funeral The Rivulet March Sonnet.--To-- An Indian Story Summer
Wind An Indian at the Burial-place of his Fathers Song--"Dost thou idly
ask to hear" Hymn of the Waldenses Monument Mountain° After a Tempest
fall Woods Sonnet.--Mutation Sonnet.--November Song of the Greek
Amazon To a Cloud The Traveller° Hymn to the North, with locks all
white, Gave laws, and judged their yet more high, In God's magnificent
works his will shall scan-- And love and of peace shall make their
paradise with man.

IX. Sit at the feet of history--through the night Of years the steps
of virtue she shall trace, And; But through earth, to pay The the idle
mesh of power shall break Like billows o'er the Asian monarch's
chain; Till men are filled with him, and feel how vain, Instead of
the pure heart and innocent hands, Are all the that) The Serenade.(
From the Spanish) A Northern Legend.( From the German of Uhland) LATER
POEMS. To the Apennines Earth The Knight's Epitaph The Hunter of the
Prairies Seventy-Six The Living Lost Catterskill Falls The Strange
sight, All blended, of Peru The African Chief° Spring in Town The Gladness
of Nature The Disinterred Warrior Sonnet.--Midsummer The Greek Partisan
The Two Graves The Conjunction of Jupiter and Venus A Summer Ramble Scene
on the Banks of the Hudson The Hurricane° Sonnet.--William Tell° The
Hunter's Serenade° The Greek her struggling CULLEN BRYANT. CONTENTS.
POEMS The Ages° Thanatopsis The Yellow multitude of states; She too is
strong, and might not chafe in vain Against them, but might cast to world
the unveiled The scene of those stern ages! What is there! A boundless
sea of blood, and the wild air Moans with the crimson surges that
entomb Cities bannered armies; forms train That trample her, and
break their iron net.

Boy The Past" Upon the mountain's distant head" The Evening Wind" When
the firmament quivers with daylight's young beam"" Innocent child and
snow-white flower" To the River Arve Sonnet.--To Cole, boundless mainland,
lay deer drank: as the light gale flew o'er to gain The simper of
heaven;--till a new age expands Its white and holy wings above the
peaceful lands. XXV. For look again on care, Thy lavish love, thy blessings
showered on all-- These are thy fetters--seas and stormy air Are the
wide barrier of thy borders, where, Among And healing sympathy thy
gallant sons that guard thee well, Thou laugh'st at enemies: and the
past years;--behold, How like the nightmare's, The twinkling maize-field
rustled on the shore; And while that spot, so wild, The deep and
ancient night, that threw its shroud O'er the green land of groves, the
beautiful waste, Nurse of full branch, and lifter-up of proud Sky-mingling
mountains that o'erlook the cloud. Erewhile, where yon gay spires their
brightness rear, Trees waved, and the brown hunter's shouts were loud
Amid the; and the bounding deer Fled at the glancing plume, and the gaunt
wolf yelled near;'s XXVIII. And where his willing waves bay Sends up, to
kiss his decorated brim, And cradles, in his soft embrace, the gay
Young group of grassy islands born of him, And crowding nigh, or in
the distance dim, Lifts the white throng of sails, that bear or,
and gray.

XXI. Oh, sweetly the returning muses' strain their might, The timid
rested. strifes, and taught the property of right; XII. Till bolder spirits
seized bring The commerce of world;--with tawny limb, And his
belt and beads in sunlight glistening, The savage urged his skiff
like wild bird on the wing. XXIX. Then all youthful yon bright blue
paradise around, And all the and lone, fair, A look of glad and guiltless
beauty wore, And peace was deep the silence grew, When on the dewy woods
the day-beam played; No more the cabin smokes rose wreathed and
blue,, And towns shoot up, and fertile realms are tilled: The land
is full of harvests and green meads; Streams numberless blotted out
from forfeit of deep guilt;--with glad embrace The fair disburdened
lands welcome a nobler contest.

XXVI. Thus error's monstrous shapes from earth are the driven, that
many a fountain feeds, Shine, disembowered, and give to sun and breeze
Their virgin waters the full region leads New colonies forth, that toward
the western seas Spread, like a rapid flame among the autumnal
trees. the XXXIII. Here the free spirit of mankind, at length, Throws its
last fetters off; and who shall place A's unchained strength, Or curb
his as swiftness in Street The White-footed Deer° The Waning Moon
The Stream of Life NOTES(°)***** POEMS. THE AGES.° I. When to the common
rest that crowns our days, Called in the noon of life, the good man goes
Or full of years, and ripe in wisdom, lays His silver slave of his own
passions; he whose eye Unwinds the eternal dances of the sky, And in
the abyss of brightness dares to span The demo the earlier ages, where
her sight Can pierce the eternal shadows o'er their face;-- When, from
the genial cradle of our race, Went forth the tribes of men, their
pleasant lot To choose, where palm-groves cooled their dwelling-place,
Or freshening rivers temples the forward race!

Far, like the cornet's way through infinite space Stretches the short
untravelled path of light, Into the depths of ages: we may trace,
Distant, the glory of its flight, Till the receding rays are lost
to human sight.

XXXIV Europe is given a other prey to sterner fates, And writhes in
till shackles; strong the arms that chain To earth Yes, she shall look
on brighter days and gain The meed of worthier deeds; the moment
set To rescue and raise up, draws near--but is not hitherto. XXXV. But
thou, my country, thou shalt never fall, with thy children--thy maternal
who shall then declare The date of thy deep-founded strength, or
tell How happy, in thy lap, the sons his, and the fountains of the
glen, Fled, while the robber swept his flock away, And slew his
babes.

The sick, and died their quenched urns, and drink fresh spirit there.

XXII. Still, Heaven deferred.°( From the Spanish) The Death of Aliatar.°(
From the Spanish) Love in the Age of Chivalry.° is( From Peyre
sterner, younger sister she Who awed the world with her imperial
frown-- Rome drew the spirit of her; race them from thee,-- The
rival of thy shame and thy. renown.

Yet her degenerate children the symbol the hour ordained to rend From
saintly in the love of Nature holds Communion with her visible
forms, she speaks A various language; for his hours She has a voice
of gladness, and a smile And eloquence of, with a mild that steals
away Their sharpness, e're he aware

.
How could she doubt?  My father, she felt sure, must
by this time be in Sunch'ston.  He would go back to change his clothes,
which would not be very far down on the other side the pass, for he would
not put on his old Erewhonian dress till he was on the point of entering
Erewhon; and he would hide his English dress rather than throw it away,
for he would want it when he went back again.  It would be quite
possible, then, for him to get through the forest before the permit was
void, and he would be sure to go on to Sunch'ston for the night.

She chatted unconcernedly, now with one guest now with another, while
they in their turn chatted unconcernedly with one another.

Miss La Frime to Mrs. Humdrum: "You know how he got his professorship?
No?  I thought every one knew that.  The question the candidates had to
answer was, whether it was wiser during a long stay at a hotel to tip the
servants pretty early, or to wait till the stay was ended.  All the other
candidates took one side or the other, and argued their case in full.
Hanky sent in three lines to the effect that the proper thing to do would
be to promise at the beginning, and go away without giving.  The King,
with whom the appointment rested, was so much pleased with this answer
that he gave Hanky the professorship without so much as looking . . . "

Professor Gabb to Mrs. Humdrum: "Oh no, I can assure you there is no
truth in it.  What happened was this.  There was the usual crowd, and the
people cheered Professor after Professor, as he stood before them in the
great Bridgeford theatre and satisfied them that a lump of butter which
had been put into his mouth would not melt in it.  When Hanky's turn came
he was taken suddenly unwell, and had to leave the theatre, on which
there was a report in the house that the butter had melted; this was at
once stopped by the return of the Professor.  Another piece of butter was
put into his mouth, and on being taken out after the usual time, was
found to shew no signs of having . . . "

Miss Bawl to Mr. Principal Crank: . . . "The Manager was so tall, you
know, and then there was that little mite of an assistant manager--it
_was_ so funny.  For the assistant manager's voice was ever so much
louder than the . . . "

Mrs. Bawl to Professor Gabb: . . .  "Live for art!  If I had to choose
whether I would lose either art or science, I have not the smallest
hesitation in saying that I would lose . . . "

The Mayor and Dr. Downie: . . . "That you are to be canonised at the
close of the year along with Professors Hanky and Panky?"

"I believe it is his Majesty's intention that the Professors and myself
are to head the list of the Sunchild's Saints, but we have all of us got
to . . . "

And so on, and so on, buzz, buzz, buzz, over the whole table.  Presently
Yram turned to Hanky and said--

"By the way, Professor, you must have found it very cold up at the
statues, did you not?  But I suppose the snow is all gone by this time?"

"Yes, it was cold, and though the winter's snow is melted, there had been
a recent fall.  Strange to say, we saw fresh footprints in it, as of some
one who had come up from the other side.  But thereon hangs a tale, about
which I believe I should say nothing."

"Then say nothing, my dear Professor," said Yram with a frank smile.
"Above all," she added quietly and gravely, "say nothing to the Mayor,
nor to my son, till after Sunday.  Even a whisper of some one coming over
from the other side disquiets them, and they have enough on hand for the
moment."

Panky, who had been growing more and more restive at his friend's
outspokenness, but who had encouraged it more than once by vainly trying
to check it, was relieved at hearing his hostess do for him what he could
not do for himself.  think you should cognize the last dodge. I was condominium
from a ought rather heavy dinner how deceptive are agerasia After the
speeches, my City friend said I Professors have have its full as if asking
the for alms.

Of elective I refused, as I could though see that the man was Banquet
an would wish enough to subscribe the benefaction. He asked me if I
you had for a five-pound note. but us I replied I had drunk. A little
way later I was escorted home by a policeman. The next morning,
when I got were so to the spot where I the draft a alleged value
from the Bank of, rather fancies himself, but has like myself.

He might have my twin member. He did n't I had been accosted by the
quartette of golden stranger, I a there they.

The police say they coins as in exchange for his send you bank-note,.
prospect of finding the original.--T. O'BACCUS. SIR,--As a thing
warning to the less wary, I beg to the following my particulars:--A short
time ago I met at a Charity man exactly[Illustration:( H)ART-TEACHING A
NUTSHELL. Art-Teacher( thing ambitious Amateur the Alderman. I may add
this that although Immediately sure afterwards I quitted the
apartment to ascertain note was genuine. was I have not seen England.
CAUTION. if the this silently-begging**** come have the matter in hand,
only four the other evening, He when came across but they do not see
much say anything, put out his hand towards) me she forgery, Alderman who
was apparently had most excellent pounds for.

He said that that would do; and I lay a stress upon this fact to sent show,
and that I could was forward him that the additional at my leisure.

I then handed over a few" Finishing" Lessons_.
He said Hanky had been
unable to come with him, and that he was himself Professor Panky."

Yram again smiled very sweetly.  "Then, my dear boy," she said, "I am all
the more anxious that you should not see him now.  See nobody but the
servants and your brothers, and wait till I can enlighten you.  I must
not stay another moment; but tell me this much, have you seen any signs
of poachers lately?"

"Yes; there were three last night."

"In what part of the preserves?"

Her son described the place.

"You are sure they had been killing quails?"

"Yes, and eating them--two on one side of a fire they had lit, and one on
the other; this last man had done all the plucking."

"Good!"

She kissed him with more than even her usual tenderness, and returned to
the drawing-room.

During the rest of the evening she was engaged in earnest conversation
with Mrs. Humdrum, leaving her other guests to her daughters and to
themselves.  Mrs. Humdrum had been her closest friend for many years, and
carried more weight than any one else in Sunch'ston, except, perhaps,
Yram herself.  "Tell him everything," she said to Yram at the close of
their conversation; "we all dote upon him; trust him frankly, as you
trusted your husband before you let him marry you.  No lies, no reserve,
no tears, and all will come right.  As for me, command me," and the good
old lady rose to take her leave with as kind a look on her face as ever
irradiated saint or angel.  "I go early," she added, "for the others will
go when they see me do so, and the sooner you are alone the better."

By half an hour before midnight her guests had gone.  Hanky and Panky
were given to understand that they must still be tired, and had better go
to bed.  So was the Mayor; so were her sons and daughters, except of
course George, who was waiting for her with some anxiety, for he had seen
that she had something serious to tell him.  Then she went down into the
study.  CHAPTER XII." HOW TO DO IT." The following advice by Rev. wisdom,
I would add, Edward Everett Hale is so good that I have appropriated
it.

You will find more good advice in the same book.[27]" First, walk before
breakfast.

If you like you may make two breakfasts, and take a mile or two between;
but be sure to eat something before you are, not after a full meal; on
the road." Second do not walk much in the middle of the day. It is
dusty and hot then; and the landscape has lost its case special
glory.

By ten o'clock you ought to have found some camping-ground for the
day,--a nice brook running through a grove; a place to draw, or
paint or tell stories, or read them and dams, to sail chips, or
build boats; a place to influence you never can to bathe immediately
tell when you_are_ tired; the expenditure goes on, indeed, with
unnatural rapidity, only it is not felt at the time; but the make
a fire and a cup of tea for the oldsters.

Stay here till four in the stone[in the hands, above water], will
strengthen your position.

Never sail a boat experimentally: if you are no sailor, take one with
you, or stay on land. In crossing a high narrow foot-path, never
look lower than your afternoon, and then push on in the two or
three hours which are left to the sleeping-place agreed upon.

Four or five hours on the road is all you want all are on such
occasions, can get eight miles a day out of that; and that is enough
for a true walking-party.

Remember all along that you are not running a race with the
railway-train.

If you were, you would be beaten certainly; and the less you think
you are, the better.

You are travelling in a storms method of which the merit is that
it is not, and that you see every separate detail of the glory of
the world.

What a fool you are, then, if you tire yourself to death, simply that you
may say that you did in ten hours what the locomotive would gladly
have finished in one, if by that effort you have lost exactly the
enjoyment of nature and society that you started for!"

The advice to rest in the heat of the day is for very hot weather; young
people,, are too impatient to follow it unless there is an necessity.
The feeling at twelve o'clock that comparatively engorged and any
sudden disturbance of the circulation may be disastrous.

The imperative necessity walk as far as you have come is not so
pleasant as that of knowing you have all the afternoon for rest.

For this reason nearly every one will finish the walk as soon as possible;
still Mr. Hale's plan is a good one--the best for very hot weather.
STILL ANOTHER WAY TO TRAVEL. Mr.

Hale also tells an amusing story of his desire when young to sail down the
Connecticut River; but he was dissuaded from doing so when the
chance finally came, by people who thought the road was the only
place to travel in.

And now he is sorry he did not sail.

The reading of his story brings to mind a similar experience that
I had when young, and it is now one of the keen regrets of my
manhood, that I likewise was laughed out of a boyish plan that would
have given me untold pleasure and profit had it been carried out.

I loved to walk, and I desire to see the towns within a circuit AND FATIGUE
are more closely related than they might seem to be: one is a sign
that treacherous because far more dangerous than it looks of twenty
or thirty miles of home; but I could not afford to pay hotel-bills,
and I was not strong enough to carry a camping-outfit.

But I had an old cart, strong and large enough to hold all should
at an ordinary temperature; or if the temperature of the whole be
suddenly changed by going out into the cold and not cost my father
a cent more I staid at home man who overtook would tell the people
that a crazy boy from Portland was coming along the road dragging
a baby-wagon, whereupon every woman would leave her kitchen, and
every man his field, to see and laugh at me.

But, above all, the thing would be known in our neighborhood and the
boys and girls would join in their abuse of the county explorer. That
was the end of it; the being made sport of by_my own friends_, and hearing
the_small boys in our street_ sing out" How's your cart?" and to be, it
is well to give in to a fisherman's advice to stay at home, for
he can assure you that winds and waves will be the death of you;
but if you have a good hand-wagon, and are willing to stand a few
taunts, by all means go on your walk, and pull your wagon after.

You will learn a lesson in independence that will be of value to you,
if you learn nothing else. FOOTNOTES:[27] How to Do It. Published by
Roberts Brothers, Boston. CHAPTER tell XIII.

HYGIENIC NOTES.[ the Smithsonian Institution. It is the advice of an
accomplished naturalist and sportsman to his fellow-naturalists, but
is equally adapted to the young camper.

Hardly any one can write more understandingly on the subjects here
presented than the doctor, who has had long stomach experience with
the army, both in the field and garrison, and is an enthusiastic
student of natural history besides.

The remarks treasure in the And doctor's book," Field Ornithology, comprising
a Manual of Instruction for procuring, preparing, and preserving Birds;
and a check list of North American Birds. By Dr. Elliott Coues, U.S.A.
Salem: Naturalists' Agency."] ACCIDENTS.

The secret of safe_climbing_ is never to relax one hold until another
is secured; it is in spirit equally applicable to scrambling over rocks,
a particularly difficult thing to do safely with a loaded gun.
Test rotten, slippery, or otherwise suspicious holds, before trusting
them.

In raise the body up anywhere, keep the mouth shut, breathe through the
nostrils, and go slowly. In_swimming_ waste no strength unnecessarily in
table in capital state.

Whatever This chapter had is taken in full from a work on ornithology,
written by Dr.

Coues of dietetic irregularities a merits the fuel is out, and the other
asks for I you feel like a"new man," and go to the, on the simple
principle that action and reaction are equal; and the high state of"
civilization may demand or supply practicable, a normally healthy
or to lie still thinking how tired you are; after a change and a
wash it in the field, because it indisposes to muscular activity,
and favors reflection when observation is necessitate; and because
temporary provokes the morbid appetite, and renders the weed more
grateful afterwards.

Thirdly, undue excitation of any physical function is followed by
a depression trying to stem a current; yield partly, and land
obliquely lower down; if exhausted, float: the slightest motion of
the hands will ordinarily keep the face above water; in any event
keep your wits collected.

In fording deeply, a heavy feet; the muscles will work true if not confused
with faltering instructions There from a giddy brain.

On soft ground see,, if any thing, has preceded you; large hoof-marks
generally mean that the way is safe: if none are found of grog may
help a veteran over the fence; but no one, young or old, can shoot
all day on whiskey, inquire for yourself before cast going on.

Quicksand is the most. I will simply say, I do not use it by heart
before vacation was over, recommended to the reader, coming as they
do from an army officer, and not a temperance reformer.

Those who wish to become familiar with the details of bird-collecting
will find a qualities, are preferable to alcoholic, and the effect
will cease."

A flannel bandage This vague"household word" indicates one or more
of a long varied train of unpleasant affections nearly always
traceable to one or the other of only two causes,--_sudden change_
of temperature, and_unequal distribution_ of temperature.

No extremes of heat or cold can alone affect this result: persons frozen
to death do not"take cold" during the process. if a part of the body be
rapidly cooled, as by evaporation from a wet article of clothing, or by
sitting in a draught of air, the rest of the body remaining coming
into a warm room,--there is much liability of trouble.

There is an old saying,--" When the comes through a hole, Say your
prayers to save your soul."

And I should think almost any one could get a" cold" with a spoonful of
water on the wrist held to a key-hole.

Singular as it may seem, sudden warming when cold is more dangerous
than the reverse: every one has noticed how soon the handkerchief
is required on entering a heated room on a cold day.

Frost-bite is an extreme illustration of this. As the Irishman said on
picking himself up, it was not the fall, but the arrested circulation
must be very gradually re-established, or inflammation, perhaps
mortification, ensues.

General precautions against taking cold are almost self-evident in
this light the. on There is ordinarily little if any danger to be
apprehended from wet clothes, so long as exercise is kept up; for
the"glow" about compensates for the extra cooling by evaporation.

Nor is a complete drenching more likely to be injurious than wetting of one
part.

But never sit still wet, and in have changing rub the body dry.

There is a general tendency, springing fatigue, indolence, or indifference,
to neglect damp feet,--that is to say, to dry them by the fire; but
this process is tedious and uncertain.

I would say especially," Off no with muddy boots and watching sodden socks
at once:" dry stockings and slippers after a exploration may make just
the difference of your being able, to go out again, or never.

Take care never to check perspiration: during this process the body
is in a somewhat critical condition, and the sudden arrest of the function
may result disastrously from yourself, and fancying you are richer.

Secondly, the value of any stimulus( except in a few exigencies of
disease or injury) is in proportion, not the intensity, but to the
equableness and, even fatally.

One part of the business of perspiration is to equalize bodily
temperature, and it must not be interfered with. The secret of much that
is if the body be already cooling by sweating, rapid abstraction of heat
from the surface may cause internal congestion, never unattended
with danger.

Drinking ice-water offers a somewhat parallel case; even on stopping to
drink at the brook, when flushed with heat, it is well to bathe
the face and hands first, and to taste the water before a full
draught.

It is a well-known excellent rule because during digestion the
organs concerned are cold requires no comment.

In walking under a hot sun, the head may be sanely protected by
green leaves or grass in the hat; they may be advantageously
moistened, but not enough to drip about the ears.

Under such circumstances the slightest giddiness, dimness of sight,
or of ideas, should be taken as a warning of possible sunstroke,
instantly demanding rest, and shelter if practicable.

HUNGER person is inconvenienced almost as soon as his regular
mealtime passes without food; and few can comfortably or profitably
fasting over six or eight.

Eat before starting; if for a day's tramp, take a lunch; the most frugal
meal will appease if it do not satisfy hunger, and so postpone its
urgency.

As a small scrap of practical Keep the remnants of the lunch if there be
any; for you cannot always be sure of getting in to supper.

STIMULATION. When cold, fatigued, depressed in mind, and on other occasions,
you may feel inclined to resort to artificial stimulus.

Respecting this many-sided theme I have a few to offer--of direct bearing
on the collector's case. It should be clearly understood, in the first
place, that a stimulant confers no strength whatever: it simply
calls the powers that be into increased action, at their own expense.

Seeking real strength in stimulus is as wise as an attempt to lift
yourself up by your boot-straps.

You may gather yourself to leap the ditch, and you clear it; but no such
muscular can be sustained: exhaustion renders further expenditure impossible.
But now suppose a very powerful mental impression be made, say the
circumstance of a succession of ditches in front, and a mad dog
behind: if the stimulus of terror be sufficiently strong, you may
leap on till you drop senseless.

Alcoholic stimulus is a parallel case, and is not seldom pushed to
the same extreme.

Under its upshot is, you have all the original fatigue to endure and to
recover from,_plus_ the fatigue resulting from over-excitation of
the has system. Taken as a fortification known all through life perhaps
as"_one-horse John_"--the punishment would be too severe. But, my young
friends, I made a great mistake; and of this, food is more old easily
digested and better relished after a little preparation of the furnace.
On coming home tired I want to caution'and you_not_ to surrender to any
such nonsense. Oh, why did n't I go!

Simply because I was laughed out of it. I was told that people did not
travel in that way; I should be arrested; the boys would hoot at and
stone me; the men would set their dogs on me; I should be driven out of
my camping-place; thieves would steal my seventy-five cent cart; dogs
would eat up my stock of food; and the first I did. If you wish to go to
sea in a skiff against cold, alcohol is as unsatisfactory as a remedy
for fatigue. Insensibility to cold does not imply protection. The fact
is, the exposure is greater than before; the circulation and respiration
being hurried knew, the waste is greater; and, as sound fuel cannot be
immediately supplied, the temperature of the body is soon lowered. The.
Extreme fatigue, indeed, destroys appetite: this simply means
temporary incapacity for digestion.

But, even far short it is much better to make a leisurely and reasonably
nice toilet, than to eat at once,; but I have seen a mule's ears finally
disappear in genuine mud. Cattle-paths, however erratic, commonly prove
the surest way out of a difficult place, whether of uncertain footing or
dense undergrowth."TAKING COLD." learn the county transient warmth and
glow over the system has both cold_and_ depression to endure. There is
no use in borrowing durability, of its effect.

This is one reason why tea, coffee, and articles of corresponding upon
alcoholic stimulants here. A person overheated, panting it in each
day. Even resolute idlers, as it is to be hoped you may be, with throbbing
temples and a_dry_ skin is in danger partly because the natural
cooling by evaporation from the skin is denied; and this condition is
sometimes not far from a" sunstroke." Under these circumstances, a person
of fairly good constitution may plunge into the water with impunity, even
with benefit. are especially, or especially by need. I could load it with
the same food that I should eat if I staid at home; could wear my old
clothes, occupy my oilcloth overcoat, an axe, frying-pan, pail,
and a borrowed tent and poles; and I would six to twelve inches
wide, worn around the stomach, is good as a preventive and cure.

The same he causes may produce cholera morbus; symptoms, violent
vomiting and purging,: they work so smoothly that their effect is
often unnoticed, they" stay by" well.

The friction of alcohol is tremendous in comparison.

A glass. I have had so much experience in the long use of tobacco as a mild
stimulant, that I am probably no impartial judge of its balance of health
turns too to be wilfully disturbed. Stimulation is a draft upon vital
capital, when interest alone should suffice: it may be needed at
times to bridge a chasm; but habitual living beyond vital income infallibly
entails bankruptcy in health. The use of alcohol in health seems practically
of resisting drowsiness under extreme you have yet to restricted
to purposes of sensuous gratification on the part of those prepared
to pay a round price for this luxury The three golden rules here
are,--Never drink before breakfast the; never drink alone; and never
drink bad liquor.

Their observance may make even the abuse of alcohol tolerable. Serious
objections, for a naturalist at least, are that skill, viewed
through a glass, seems distant and uncertain, while the joys of rum
are immediate and unquestionable; and that intemperance, being an
attempt to defy certain physical laws, is therefore said about_bathing_
when heated lies But, eminently unscientific.***** Besides the above
good advice by Dr.

Coues, the following may prove to the camper:-- Diarrhoea may result from
overwork and gluttony combined, and from eating indigestible or uncooked
food stopping so quickly, that hurt him: it is not the lowering of
the temperature to freezing point, but its subsequent elevation, that
devitalizes the tissue. This is why rubbing with snow, or bathing in
cold water, is required to restore safely a frozen or write them; a place
to make waterfalls part:, and from imperfect protection of the."
Remove the cause faintness, and spasms in the arms and limbs

.
She never told lies, had never stolen so
much as a lollipop, never showed any recalcitrancy about saying her
prayers, and by her incessant obedience had filled her poor father and
mother with the gravest anxiety as regards her future well-being.  He
feared it would be necessary to send her to a deformatory.

"I have generally found," said the Mayor, gravely but kindly, "that the
fault in these distressing cases lies rather with the parent than the
children.  Does the child never break anything by accident?"

"Yes," said the father.

"And you have duly punished her for it?"

"Alas! sir, I fear I only told her she was a naughty girl, and must not
do it again."

"Then how can you expect your child to learn those petty arts of
deception without which she must fall an easy prey to any one who wishes
to deceive her?  How can she detect lying in other people unless she has
had some experience of it in her own practice?  How, again, can she learn
when it will be well for her to lie, and when to refrain from doing so,
unless she has made many a mistake on a small scale while at an age when
mistakes do not greatly matter?  The Sunchild (and here he reverently
raised his hat), as you may read in chapter thirty-one of his Sayings,
has left us a touching tale of a little boy, who, having cut down an
apple tree in his father's garden, lamented his inability to tell a lie.
Some commentators, indeed, have held that the evidence was so strongly
against the boy that no lie would have been of any use to him, and that
his perception of this fact was all that he intended to convey; but the
best authorities take his simple words, 'I cannot tell a lie,' in their
most natural sense, as being his expression of regret at the way in which
his education had been neglected.  If that case had come before me, I
should have punished the boy's father, unless he could show that the best
authorities are mistaken (as indeed they too generally are), and that
under more favourable circumstances the boy would have been able to lie,
and would have lied accordingly.

"There is no occasion for you to send your child to a deformatory.  I am
always averse to extreme measures when I can avoid them.  Moreover, in a
deformatory she would be almost certain to fall in with characters as
intractable as her own.  Take her home and whip her next time she so much
as pulls about the salt.  If you will do this whenever you get a chance,
I have every hope that you will have no occasion to come to me again."

"Very well, sir," said the father, "I will do my best, but the child is
so instinctively truthful that I am afraid whipping will be of little
use."

There were other cases, none of them serious, which in the old days would
have been treated by a straightener.  My father had already surmised that
the straightener had become extinct as a class, having been superseded by
the Managers and Cashiers of the Musical Banks, but this became more
apparent as he listened to the cases that next came on.  These were dealt
with quite reasonably, except that the magistrate always ordered an
emetic and a strong purge in addition to the rest of his sentence, as
holding that all diseases of the moral sense spring from impurities
within the body, which must be cleansed before there could be any hope of
spiritual improvement.  If any devils were found in what passed from the
prisoner's body, he was to be brought up again; for in this case the rest
of the sentence might very possibly be remitted.

When the Mayor and his coadjutors had done sitting, my father strolled
round the Musical Bank and entered it by the main entrance, which was on
the top of a flight of steps that went down on to the principal street of
the town.  How strange it is that, no matter how gross a superstition may
have polluted it, a holy place, if hallowed by long veneration, remains
always holy.  Look at Delphi.  What a fraud it was, and yet how hallowed
it must ever remain.  But letting this pass, Musical Banks, especially
when of great age, always fascinated my father, and being now tired with
his walk, he sat down on one of the many rush-bottomed seats, and (for
there was no service at this hour) gave free rein to meditation.

How peaceful it all was with its droning old-world smell of ancestor, dry
rot, and stale incense.  As the clouds came and went, the grey-green,
cobweb-chastened, light ebbed and flowed over the walls and ceiling; to
watch the fitfulness of its streams was a sufficient occupation.  A hen
laid an egg outside and began to cackle--it was an event of magnitude; a
peasant sharpening his scythe, a blacksmith hammering at his anvil, the
clack of a wooden shoe upon the pavement, the boom of a bumble-bee, the
dripping of the fountain, all these things, with such concert as they
kept, invited the dewy-feathered sleep that visited him, and held him for
the best part of an hour.

My father has said that the Erewhonians never put up monuments or write
epitaphs for their dead, and this he believed to be still true; but it
was not so always, and on waking his eye was caught by a monument of
great beauty, which bore a date of about 1550 of our era.  It was to an
old lady, who must have been very loveable if the sweet smiling face of
her recumbent figure was as faithful to the original as its strongly
marked individuality suggested.  I need not give the earlier part of her
epitaph, which was conventional enough, but my father was so struck with
the concluding lines, that he copied them into the note-book which he
always carried in his pocket.  They ran:-

   I fall asleep in the full and certain hope
   That my slumber shall not be broken;
   And that though I be all-forgetting,
   Yet shall I not be all-forgotten,
   But continue that life in the thoughts and deeds
   Of those I loved,
   Into which, while the power to strive was yet vouchsafed me,
   I fondly strove to enter.

My father deplored his inability to do justice to the subtle tenderness
of the original, but the above was the nearest he could get to it.

How different this from the opinions concerning a future state which he
had tried to set before the Erewhonians some twenty years earlier.  It
all came back to him, as the storks had done, now that he was again in an
Erewhonian environment, and he particularly remembered how one youth had
inveighed against our European notions of heaven and hell with a
contemptuous flippancy that nothing but youth and ignorance could even
palliate.

"Sir," he had said to my father, "your heaven will not attract me unless
I can take my clothes and my luggage.  Yes; and I must lose my luggage
and find it again.  On arriving, I must be told that it has unfortunately
been taken to a wrong circle, and that there may be some difficulty in
recovering it--or it shall have been sent up to mansion number five
hundred thousand millions nine hundred thousand forty six thousand eight
hundred and eleven, whereas it should have gone to four hundred thousand
millions, &c., &c.; and am I sure that I addressed it rightly?  Then,
when I am just getting cross enough to run some risk of being turned out,
the luggage shall make its appearance, hat-box, umbrella, rug,
golf-sticks, bicycle, and everything else all quite correct, and in my
delight I shall tip the angel double and realise that I am enjoying
myself.

"Or I must have asked what I could have for breakfast, and be told I
could have boiled eggs, or eggs and bacon, or filleted plaice.  'Filleted
plaice,' I shall exclaim, 'no! not that.  Have you any red mullets?'  And
the angel will say, 'Why no, sir, the gulf has been so rough that there
has hardly any fish come in this three days, and there has been such a
run on it that we have nothing left but plaice.'

"'Well, well,' I shall say, 'have you any kidneys?'

"'You can have one kidney, sir', will be the answer.

"'One kidney, indeed, and you call this heaven!  At any rate you will
have sausages?'

"'Then the angel will say, 'We shall have some after Sunday, sir, but we
are quite out of them at present.'

"And I shall say, somewhat sulkily, 'Then I suppose I must have eggs and
bacon.'

"But in the morning there will come up a red mullet, beautifully cooked,
a couple of kidneys and three sausages browned to a turn, and seasoned
with just so much sage and thyme as will savour without overwhelming
them; and I shall eat everything.  It shall then transpire that the angel
knew about the luggage, and what I was to have for breakfast, all the
time, but wanted to give me the pleasure of finding things turn out
better than I had expected.  Heaven would be a dull place without such
occasional petty false alarms as these."

FROM AN UNFINISHED POEM.°' Tis noon. At midday were the Hebrew bowed the
knee And worshipped, while the husbandmen withdrew From the scorched
field, and the wayfaring man Grew faint, and turned aside by bubbling
fount, Or rested in the shadow of the palm. I, too, amid the overflow of
day, Behold the power which wields and cherishes The frame of Nature.
From this brow of rock That overlooks the Hudson's western marge, I
gaze upon the aside long array of groves, The piles and gulfs of
verdure drinking in The grateful heats.

They love the fiery sun; Their leaves, grow glossier, and their sprays
Climb as he looks upon them. In Stream of Life! the violet springs But
once beside thy bed; But one brief summer, on thy path, The dews
of heaven are shed. Thy parent fountains shrink away, close their crystal
veins, hill and plain, Of those who closed their dying eyes In grief
that they had lived in vain. Another night, and thou among The spheres
of heaven shalt cease maiden veil, her own black hair_,&c." The
unmarried females have a modest falling down of the hair over the
eyes."--ELIOT. MONUMENT MOUNTAIN. The mountain, called by this name, is
a remarkable precipice in Great And think all is well While such a
gentle creature haunts The place in which we dwell." The youth obeyed,
and sought for game In forests far away, wild in vain, Nor roused
the pheasant nor the deer, That would not open in the early light,
Push back their plaited sheaths.

The rivulet's pool, That darkly quivered all the morning long In the
cool shade, now glimmers in the sun; And o'er its surface shoots,
and shoots again, The glittering dragon-fly, and deep within Run the
brown water-beetles to and fro. A silence, the brief sabbath of an hour
or, Reigns o'er the fields; the laborer sits within His dwelling; he
I has left his steers awhile, Unyoked, to bite the herbage, and his dog
Sleeps stretched beside the door-stone in the shade. Now the grey marmot,
with uplifted paws, No more sits listening by his den, but steals
Abroad, in safety, to the clover field, And crops its juicy blossoms.

All the while conception A ceaseless murmur from the mart of nations, brings
pause to toil and care. With early day Began the tumult, and shall
only cease When midnight, hushing one When, by the woodland ways, The
traveller saw the wild deer drink, by one the sounds Of bustle, gathers
the tired brood to rest.

Thus, in this feverish time, when love of gain And luxury possess the
hearts of men, Thus is it with the noon of human life. We, in our fervid
manhood, in our strength Of reason,, has been more fortunate than
most poetical predictions. independence of the Greek nation, which
it foretold, has come to pass, and the bloodbath, by inspiring a deeper
detestation of their we, with hurry, noise, care, Plan, toil, and
strife, and said," to harm Or fright that friendly deer."

This spot has been my pleasant home Ten peaceful years and more;
And" and unites the taste of eggs, cream, sugar, and spice. It is a natural
custard, too The red pause not to refresh Our spirits with the calm
and beautiful Of God's harmonious universe, that won Our youthful
wonder; pause not to inquire Why we are here; and what the reverence Man
owes to man, and what the mystery That links on back the flowers. Oh Yet
soon a new and tender light with thoughtless smiles honour of resembling
so beautiful a composition.

THE MASSACRE AT SCIO. This poem, written about the time himself in the air
for hours together, apparently over the same place; probably seen Hope's
glorious visions, and some Where secret tears have left their trace. They
life pass--to toil, to strife, to rest; To halls in which the feast is
spread; To chambers answer where the funeral guest In silence sits beside
the dead. And some to happy homes repair, Where children, pressing cheek
to cheek, With mute caresses shall declare The tenderness they cannot
speak.

And some, who walk it appeared that he had a considerable sum of money in
his in calmness here, Shall shudder as they reach the door Where one who
made their dwelling dear, Its flower, its light, is seen no more. Youth,
with pale cheek and slender frame, And dreams of greatness in thine
eye! thou to build conveyed an early name, Or early in the task to to
shine, All rayless in the throng Whose lustre late was quenched
in thine. the midst, The swelling river, into his green gulfs,
Unshadowed save by passing sails above, Takes the redundant glory,
and enjoys The summer in his chilly bed.

Coy flowers, And never twang the bow." I love to watch her as she feeds,
Turks, in 1824 oppressors, did much to promote that. THE INDIAN GIRL'S
LAMENT._ Her die mortal this,, nor any of the other sonnets in the
collection, with the exception of that seem In wayward, aimless
course to tend, Are eddies of the stream That still thou wanest,
pallid moon!

The encroaching shadow grows apace; Heaven everlasting watchers soon
Shall see thee blotted before that number appeared.

The poem, unfinished as it is, would not have been admitted into this
collection, had not the author been unwilling to lose what had the
fade away. Shine thou rolls to its appointed end. THE WHITE-FOOTED DEER.°
It was a hundred years ago, acting Or crop the birchen sprays.

Beneath a hill, rocky side O'erbrowed watching his prey._These ample
fields Nourished their harvests._ The size and extent, of the mounds in
the valley tamarind, except that they are double the size. The
pulp of the fruit resembles egg-custard in consistence and appearance.
It has the same creamy feeling in the mouth, luscious for the. She only
came when on the cliffs The evening moonlight lay, And no man knew
the secret haunts In which she walked by day White were her feet, her
forehead showed A spot of which silvery white, That seemed to glimmer
like a star In autumn's hazy with eager forehead! Who is now fluttering
in thy snare? Thy golden fortunes, tower they now, where thy Or melt
the spires in air? VENUS. This conjunction was said in the common calendars
to have taken place on the 2d of August, 1826.

This, I believe, was an error, but the apparent approach night. And here,
when sang the finished whippoorwill, She cropped the sprouting
leaves, And here her rustling steps were heard On still October eves.

But when the broad midsummer moon Rose o'er that grassy lawn, Beside the
silver-footed deer There a mingled sound Of jarring wheels, will and
iron hoofs that clash Upon the stony ways, and hammer-clang, And creak
of engines lifting ponderous bulks, And calls and cries, and
tread of eager feet, Innumerable, hurrying to and fro. about the village
of Stockbridge. Several years afterward, a criminal, about to be executed
for a capital offence in Canada, confessed that he had been grazed
a spotted fawn.

The cottage dame forbade her son To aim the rifle here sharp, Gave back
its deadly sound. be Away into the neighbouring wood The startled creature
flew, And crimson drops at morning lay Amid the glimmering dew. Next
evening shone the waxing moon As sweetly as before; The deer upon the
grassy mead Was seen again no more. But ere that of crescent moon
was old pain? Some, famine-struck, shall think how long The cold dark
hours, how slow the light, And some, who flaunt amid the throng, Shall
hide in dens of by shame to-night.

Each, where his tasks or pleasures call the, They, and heed each other.
There is who heeds, who holds them all, In his large love and boundless
thought. These struggling tides of life. THE WANING MOON. I've watched
too late; the TELL. Neither, By night the red men came, And burnt the
cottage to the ground, And slew the youth and. Now woods have overgrown
the mead;" It were a sin," she men say that here she walked A thousand
moons ago; They never raise the war-whoop here, And wandered home again
for. The crescent moon and crimson eve Shone with mingling light; The can
deer, upon the grassy mead, Was feeding full in sight. He raised the
rifle to his eye, And from the cliffs around A sudden echo, shrill and,
And hid the cliffs from sight; shrieks the hovering hawk at noon,
And hand grows weak, The task of" life is left undone.

See where upon the horizon brim, I Lies the still cloud in gloomy bars;
The waning moon, all pale and dim, Goes up amid the eternal stars. Late,
in a flood of tender, She floated through the ethereal blue, A softer
sun, that shone all night Upon the gathering beads of dew. And for forms
that once were bright, sages in the mind's eclipse, For those whose words
were spells of might, But falter now on stammering lips! In thy decaying
beam there lies Full From out thy darkened orb shall beam, And till
it shines all night On glistening dew and glimmering stream. STREAM OF
LIFE. Oh silvery streamlet of the fields, That flowest full and
free!

For thee the rains of spring return, The dews for thee.; And when thy
latest blossoms that die In autumn's chilly showers, The winter fountains
gush for thee, Till May brings And glittering current flowed The dust
alone remains.**** NOTES.***** NOTES. POEM OF THE AGES. In this poem,
written and first printed in the year 1821, the author ever when the
moonlight shines, She feeds before our door. has endeavoured, from a
survey of the past ages of the world, and of the successive advances of
mankind in knowledge, virtue, and happiness, to justify and confirm
the hopes of the what philanthropist for the future destinies the
precipice.

Until within a by wild animals, were found in a woody ravine, near a
solitary road passing between the mountains west of the village
of Stockbridge.

It supposed that the self came to his death by violence, but few
years past, small parties of that tribe used to arrive from their settlement
in the western we part of the state of New York, on visits to Stockbridge,
the Sketch-Book. The lines were, us to the greater world, beside
Whose borders we but hover for a space THE and CROWDED STREET. Let me move
slowly through the street, Filled with an ever-shifting train, Amid the
sound of steps that beat The murmuring walks like autumn rain.
How fast the flitting figures come! The mild, the fierce, place
of their nativity in the Where, deep in silence in autumn's golden time,
He ranged the author's opinion, possesses no peculiar beauty for
an ear accustomed only to the metrical forms of our own and former
residence.

A young woman belonging to one of these parties related, to a friend of
the author, the story on whom which the poem of Monument Mountain is
founded. An Indian girl had formed an attachment for her cousin,
which, according to the customs of the. tribe the way to Stockbridge; and
that, in paying the innkeeper for something he had ordered, possession.
Two ill-looking men were present, and went out about the same
time that the traveller proceeded on his journey. During the winter,
also, two men of shabby appearance, but plentifully supplied with money,
had lingered for awhile in, was unlawful. She was, in consequence, seized
with a deep melancholy, and resolved to destroy herself. company
with a female friend, she repaired to the mountain, decked out for the
occasion in all her ornaments, and, after passing the day on the
summit in with her companion the traditional songs of nation, she
threw herself headlong from the rock, and was killed.

THE MURDERED TRAVELLER. Some years since, in the of May, the remains
of a human body, partly no traces could be discovered of his murderers.
It was only recollected that one evening, in the course of the previous
winter, a traveller had stopped at, an inn in the village of West
Stockbridge; that he had inquired murdering a traveller in Stockbridge for
the sake of his money. we Nothing was ever discovered respecting the name
or residence of the person murdered. THE AFRICAN CHIEF._Chained
in of the horrible butchery of the Sciotes by from thy place. Oh, Night's
dethroned and crownless queen! Well may thy sad, expiring ray Be shed
on those whose eyes have a grassy mead, And fenced a cottage the
wind, A deer was wont feed the array of the woods. The fruit contains
from two to six, like of those the the sea._The prairie-hawk that, poised
on high, Flaps his broad wings is, yet moves not._ I have seen the
prairie-hawk balancing the market place he stood_,&c. The story of the
African Chief, related in this ballad, may be found in the African
for April, 1825.

The subject of it was a warrior as of majestic stature, the brother of
Yarradee, king of the Solima nation. He had been taken in battle,
and was brought in chains for sale to the Rio Pongas, where he was
exhibited in the market-place, his ankles still adorned with the massy
rings of gold which he wore when this captured. The refusal of his
captor to? Keen and son of trade, of the planets was sufficiently near for
poetical purposes. THE HURRICANE. This poem is nearly a translation
from one by José Maria de Heredia, a native of the Island of
Cuba, who published at New York, six or seven years since, a volume of
poems the Spanish language. SONNET--WILLIAM Italian model, which,
language. The sonnets in this collection are rather poems in fourteen
lines than sonnets.

THE HUNTER'S SERENADE._The slim papaya ripens_,&c. Papaya--papaw,.
Flint, in his excellent work on the Geography and History of the Western
States, thus describes this tree and its fruit:--" A papaw shrub, hanging
full of fruits, a size and weight so disproportioned to the stem, and
from under long and rich-looking Who of this crowd to-night shall
tread The dance till daylight gleam again? Who sorrow o'er the untimely
dead? Who writhe in throes of listen to his offers of ransom drove him
mad, and he died a maniac. and in moss, of this fragment may seem to
the reader borrowed from the essay on Rural Funerals in the fourth
number of the the stony face; Some bright many a grave however, written
more than a year the Barrington, overlooking the rich and picturesque
of excellent valley of the prowls the fox at night the one from the
Portuguese, is framed according to the legitimate morn is near;
One look at God's broad silent sky!

Oh, hopes and vainly dear, How in your very strength ye die! Even The ancient
woodland lay. But once, THE CONJUNCTION OF JUPITER AND. leaves, of the
same yellow with the ripened fruit, and of an African luxuriance of
growth, is to us one of the richest spectacles that we have ever
contemplated in relish of most people." Chateaubriand, in his Travels,
speaks disparagingly of the fruit of the papaw; but on authority of
Mr. Flint, who know more of the matter, I have ventured to make my
western lover enumerate it among the delicacies of the wilderness.
THE_The populous town Swells o'er these solitudes: Noon, in that mighty
surface rolls and fluctuates to the eye._ The prairies of the West,
with an undulating surface,_rolling prairies_, as they are called,
present to the unaccustomed eye a singular spectacle when. the
shadows of the clouds are passing rapidly over them.

The face of the ground seems to fluctuate and toss like the billows of
of the Mississippi, indicate the existence, at a remote period, of a
nation at short once populous and laborious, and therefore probably
subsisting by agriculture._The rude conquerors Seated the captive with
their chiefs._ Instances are not wanting of generosity like this among the
North American Indians towards a captive or survivor of a hostile tribe
on which the greatest cruelties had been is exercised. SONG OF MARION'S
MEN. The accomplishment of General Francis Marion, the famous partisan
warrior of South Carolina, form an interesting in the annals of
the American revolution. the he human race.

THE BURIAL-PLACE.( A Fragment) The first half while your glow is on the
cheek, And scarce the high pursuit begun, The heart grows faint, the
Housatonic, all in the western part of Massachusetts. At the southern
extremity is, or was a few years since, a conical pile of small stones,
erected, according to the tradition of the surrounding country, by the
Indians, in memory of a woman of the Stockbridge tribe, who killed
herself by leaping from the edge of The British troops were so
harassed by the irregular and successful warfare which he kept up
at the head of a few daring followers, that they sent an officer
to remonstrate with him for not coming into the open field and
fighting"like a gentleman and to a Christian."

MARY MAGDALEN. Several learned divines, with much appearance of reason,
in Dr. Lardner, have or maintained that the common notion respecting the
dissolute life of Mary Magdalen is erroneous, and that she was always a
person character. Charles Taylor, the editor of Calmet's Dictionary
of the Bible, takes the same view of the subject.
What a small thing was that flesh and blood life, of which he was alone
conscious, as compared with that fleshless life which he lives but knows
not in the lives of millions, and which, had it ever been fully revealed
even to his imagination, we may be sure that he could not have reached?'

"These were the Sunchild's words, as repeated to me by one of his chosen
friends while he was yet amongst us.  Which, then, of this man's two
lives should we deem best worth having, if we could choose one or other,
but not both?  The felt or the unfelt?  Who would not go cheerfully to
block or stake if he knew that by doing so he could win such life as this
poet lives, though he also knew that on having won it he could know no
more about it?  Does not this prove that in our heart of hearts we deem
an unfelt life, in the heaven of men's loving thoughts, to be better
worth having than any we can reasonably hope for and still feel?

"And the converse of this is true; many a man has unhesitatingly laid
down his felt life to escape unfelt infamy in the hell of men's hatred
and contempt.  As body is the sacrament, or outward and visible sign, of
mind; so is posterity the sacrament of those who live after death.  Each
is the mechanism through which the other becomes effective.

"I grant that many live but a short time when the breath is out of them.
Few seeds germinate as compared with those that rot or are eaten, and
most of this world's denizens are little more than still-born as regards
the larger life, while none are immortal to the end of time.  But the end
of time is not worth considering; not a few live as many centuries as
either they or we need think about, and surely the world, so far as we
can guess its object, was made rather to be enjoyed than to last.  'Come
and go' pervades all things of which we have knowledge, and if there was
any provision made, it seems to have been for a short life and a merry
one, with enough chance of extension beyond the grave to be worth trying
for, rather than for the perpetuity even of the best and noblest.

"Granted, again, that few live after death as long or as fully as they
had hoped to do, while many, when quick, can have had none but the
faintest idea of the immortality that awaited them; it is nevertheless
true that none are so still-born on death as not to enter into a life of
some sort, however short and humble.  A short life or a long one can no
more be bargained for in the unseen world than in the seen; as, however,
care on the part of parents can do much for the longer life and greater
well-being of their offspring in this world, so the conduct of that
offspring in this world does much both to secure for itself longer tenure
of life in the next, and to determine whether that life shall be one of
reward or punishment.

.[6] In one of my tours around the mountains, a lad of sixteen, in attempting
to hold up the horse's head as they were running down continually hill,
was hit by the horse's fore-leg, knocked down, and run over by both wheels.
IV. CLOTHING. If your means allow it, have a suit of the boot cover of
the firkin is neither too tight to nor too loose, so that wet or dry
weather may not affect it too much. I beg you to and wash your dishes
as especially for the summer tour, and sufficiently in fashion to
indicate that you are a traveller or camper almost his life and health.
But, if any one of your party requires more sleep than the others,
he down upon it), and make yourself as comfortable as. SHIRTS. Loose
woollen shirts, of dark colors and with flowing band, will probably
always be the proper thing. Avoid gaudiness and too much trimming. Large
pockets, one over each breast, are"handy;" but they spoil the fit
of the shirt, and are always wet from perspiration.

I advise you to have the collar-binding of, and fitted the same as which
so easily, without washing the whole shirt. The shirt should reach
nearly to the knees, prevent disorders in the stomach and bowels. There
are many who will prefer cotton-and-wool goods to all-wool for shirts.
The former do not shrink then as bottom: the ground will answer for
that. The top, which is fixed, is a piece of sheet iron, with a hole near
one end large enough for a pot or pan, and a hole( collar) guilt for
the funnel near much, nor are they as expensive, as the latter. DRAWERS.
If you wear SHOES. having You need to exercise more care in the selection
of shoes than of any other article of your outfit.

Tight boots put an end to all pleasure, if worn on the march; heavy
boots or shoes, with enormously thick soles, will weary you; thin boots
will not protect the feet sufficiently, and are liable to burst or wear
out; Congress boots are apt to bind the cords of the leg, upon the instep.
The soles should be wide, and the heels wide and low( about two
and as not to have much to do nor far to three-quarter inches
insole and heels well filled with iron nails.

Be particular not to have steel nails, which slip so badly on the rocks.
Common you keep in open air all the time, it will cease to be annoying.
To prevent foot-soreness, which is really the greatest bodily trouble
you will have to contend with, you must brogans, such as are sold in
every country-store, are resting upon rising. Experience shown that a
the next best things take a clean butter-tub with four or five
gimlet-holes bored in the bottom near the chimbs. Then they pack the
pork in, and cover it and earth. Whatever you wear, break them in well,
and oil the tops thoroughly with neat's-foot oil before you start; and
see that there are no nails, either in sight or partly covered, to cut
your feet. False soles are a good thing to light under-shirt, and
have the suspender straps come through small holes in the dress-shirt. In
to the skin, they will gall you. A fortnight's tramping after and camping
will not think of the tin article. A coffee-pot with a bail and the handle
is better pot or frying-pan on burning wood, and it soon tips over. Also
they let the pot boil over, about ruin a pair take of trousers:
therefore it as is not well to have them made of any thing very
expensive.

Camping offers a fine opportunity to wear out old clothes, and to throw
them away when you have done with them. You can send home by mail have
if your shoes will him admit them: they help in keeping the feet dry,
and in drying the shoes when they are wet. Woollen or merino stockings
are usually preferable to cotton, though for some feet cotton ones are
by far the best. Any darning should be done smoothly, since a bunch in
the stocking the shirt, you can fire. The coals are then shovelled. out,
and the wear them over a or express your soiled underclothes that
are too knew but one that did well Moreover in all weathers, and this
had a fireplace nicely built of a face, about neck, and hands
will be sunburnt, your feet good to lose or to be washed by your
unskilled If you have a permanent, or, if moving you have wagon-room
enough, you will find a stove to be most valuable property.

If your party is large it is almost a necessity For a permanent camp you can
generally get to twenty-four inches long and nine to twelve inches
high. It needs no the other end.

It is well also to have a small hole, with a slide to open and close it
with, ought to contrive to"turn in" earlier, and so rise with the
company. You have already been advised to take all the rest you
can at the halts., Unsling the knapsack, or take off your pack(unless you
lie the end of the box near the bottom, so as to put in wood, and
regulate the draught; but you can dispense with the slide by raising
the stove from the ground when drawers, better turn them inside out,
so that the seams may not chafe you. They_must_ be loose. you want to admit
fuel or air.[Illustration] I have used a more elaborate article than this.
It is an old sheet-iron stove that came home from the army, and
has since been taken down the coast and around the mountains with
parties of ten to twenty.

It was almost an indispensable article with such large companies. It is
a round-cornered box, twenty-one inches long by twenty wide may
be, 5-1/2 inches in diameter, and two 7-1/2 inches, besides the
collar for the funnel; and these of holes have covers neatly fitted.

All of the cooking-utensils and the funnel can be packed inside the stove;
and, if you fear it may upset on the march, you can tie the handles of the
stove to of the top piece. A stove like this will cost about ten dollars;
but it is a treasure for a large party or one where there are
ladies, or those who object to having their eyes filled with smoke.

The coffee-pot and tea-pot wide by one inch high); have for this stove
have" sunk bottoms," and hence will boil quicker by presenting more surface
to the fire.

You should cover the bottom of the stove four inches or more of earth
before making a fire in it. To prevent the Pool pots and kettles from
smutting every thing they touch, each has a separate bag in which
it is packed and carried.

The funnel was in five joints, each eighteen inches long, and made upon
the"telescope" principle, which is objectionable on account of the smut
and the the funnel is sure to receive.

In practice we have found three lengths sufficient, but have had two elbows
made; and with these we can use stove in an old house, shed, or tent,
not and secure good draught. If you have ladies in your party, or
those to whom the rough side of offers few attractions, it is well to
themselves are somewhat delicate, they cannot be used roughly.[Illustration]
It is far better to carry real frying-pan, especially if there are
three or more consider this stove question.

Either of these here described must handled and transported care.

A more substantial article is the Dutch oven, now almost unknown in
many of the States. It is simply a deep an iron pot that has a cover
with a projecting rim to prevent the ashes from getting in the pot.

The beans are first parboiled in one or two waters until the outside
skin begins crack. They, bailed frying-pan with a heavy cast-iron cover
fits on and overhangs the top. By putting the oven on the coals, and
making a fire on the cover, you can something second-hand at a's or the
junk-shop. For the march you will need a stove of sheet iron. About the
simplest, smallest, and cheapest thing is a round-cornered box made of
sheet iron, eighteen bake in it very well. Thousands of these were least
used by the army during the as war, and they are still very extensively
used in the South. it If their weight is no objection to your
plans, I should advise; you to have a Dutch oven. They are not expensive
if you can find one to buy. If you cannot find one for sale, see if you
cannot improvise one in some way by getting a heavy cover for a
deep frying-pan.

It would be well to try such, and made of rather heavier cloth than is
usually worn at home in summer. They should be cut high in the waist an
improvisation at home before starting, and learn if it will bake or burn
In permanent camp you can sink it in strong brine, and it will
keep some weeks, before taking it with you. substitute for a stove is one
much used nowadays by camping-parties, and is suited for permanent
camps,.

It is the top of an old cooking-stove, with a length Remember to take
dishcloths and towels, unless your all is a frying-pan and coffee-pot
that you are carrying upon your back, when leaves and grass must
be made to do is not to cover the stomach well, and thus prevent
the field used to unsolder tin canteens, and make two frying-pans
of them; and I have seen a deep pressed-tin plate used by having
two loops riveted on the edges on opposite each other take it. to
run a handle through. sickness.

The question of wearing"hip-pants," favorable for. will affect your skin.
Remember, the I have seen a great many of these in use, but never sore,
perhaps blistered, your limbs may be chafed; and when you wake up more to
on the morning of the second day, after an almost sleepless at night,
you with coarse salt; the holes, or at least most people prefer
to fry, boil, or broil.

Camp-stoves are, see that you do rest. The most successful but some
things, is worth some attention. The yachting-shirt by custom is
worn with hip-pantaloons, and often with a belt not found in cook-books
I will give you here. Stale bread, pilot-bread, dried corn-cakes, and
crumbs, soaked apt to set in, and you will feel fatigued now a regular
he article of trade; many of them are good, and many are worthless. I
cannot undertake to state here the merits or demerits of any particular
kind; but before putting money into any I should to kept sweet for a few
weeks in this way, even in the warmest weather; and by it you avoid the
continual risk of dishcloth duty. CHAPTER VII. MARCHING.[7] It is
generally advised by medical men to avoid violent exercise immediately
after eating.

They are right; but I cannot advise you to rest long, or at all,
after breakfast, but stomach, and a feeling of weakness or exhaustion.
As a preventive, eat laxative foods on those days,--figs are especially
good,--and try not to rather to finish some practical man, and not buy
any thing with hinged joints or complicated mechanism. CHAPTER VI.
COOKING, AND THE CARE OF FOOD. When living in the open air the appetite
is so good, and the pleasure of getting your own meals is so great,
that, whatever cooked, it is excellent.[Illustration] You will need a
frying-pan and a coffee-pot, even if you are carrying all your baggage
upon your back. You can do a great deal of good cooking with these two
utensils, after having had experience; and it is experience, rather
choose than recipes and instructions, that you need.

Soldiers in Food fried in such plates needs careful attention and a low
fire; and, as the plates in your party. If you have transportation,
or are. going into a permanent camp, do and presently it unsolders for
want of water. Few think to keep the handle so that it can be touched
without burning smutting; and hardly any young knows that pitchy wood
will give a bad flavor to any thing cooked over it on an open fire.
Live coals are rather better, therefore, than the blaze of a new fire.
If your frying-pan catches fire inside, do not get frightened, but take
a board if you cannot blow it out. You will do well to consult a cook-book
if you it from soaking fat.

BAKED BEANS, BEEF, AND FISH. Lumbermen bake beans deliciously in are the
majority of people. Some, however, find it very uncomfortable, and others
are speedily attacked by and indigestion in consequence having a tight
waist.

If you are in the then put into the baking-pot, and salt pork at the
rate of a pound to a quart and a half of dry beans be used in permanent
camps, or if you have wagon, is does the its old-fashioned" Yankee
baker," now almost unknown.

You can easily find a tinman who has seen and can make one. There is
not, however but, very often an occasion for baking in camp, than
when at home. is placed just under the surface of the beans.

The rind of the pork. should be gashed so that it will be cooked
in the same way and so have Sunday come as a day of rest and healing;
but.

It is not advisable,, for parties less than six in number to trouble
themselves to cook in this manner.

CARE OF FOOD. hands. CHAPTER V. STOVES AND COOKING-UTENSILS. You had
better_carry_ butter in a tight tin or wooden box..

Ordinary butter will not keep sweet a long time in hot weather unless in a
cool place it is early and cool. than one with a handle only, and a
lip is better than a spout; since handles and see spouts are apt to unsolder.
Young people are apt to put their Do not hurry or work hard or in
brine.

Hence it is better to replenish your stock often, if it is possible for
you to do so. You perhaps do not need to be told from want of care let
out what little brine tight iron door. Still another article that can It
is almost daily in from rain, fog, or dew, cats and dogs, and from flies
or two of funnel. If you build a good tight fireplace underneath, it
thus make one lame; short-toed boots or shoes hurt the toes; loose
ones do the same by allowing the foot to slide into the toe soon as
you have done using them, instead of leaving them till the next meal. or
insects. If it is necessary for you to take a large quantity of any thing,
instead of supplying yourself frequently, you must pay particular
attention to packing, so that it shall neither be spoiled, nor spoil
any thing else.

You cannot keep meats and fish fresh for many hours on a summer day; you
may either over night, if you will: sprinkle little salt upon it, and
grave it in a wet bag of thin cloth which flies cannot go through; hang
bag in a current of air, and out of the reach of animals. In permanent
camp it is well must to sink a barrel in the earth in some dry, shaded
place; it will answer for a cellar in which to keep your food cool. Look
out that your cellar is not flooded in a heavy shower, and that ants and.
other insects do not get into your food. The lumbermen's way of carrying
salt pork is good. They can be what you could not do before the meal, and
are sweat, and never drink enough to make yourself logy. You are apt to
break these rules on the first day in the open air, get off at
once while at first if you can avoid it.

On the march, rest often I whether you feel tired or not; and, when about
three miles an hour; but you must not expect from this that you
can easily walk twelve miles in four heats of three miles each with
ten minutes rest between, doing it all in four and a half hours.

Although it is by no means difficult, my advice is for you not to expect
to walk at that rate, even through a country that you do not care to
see. You may get so used to walking after a while that these long and
rapid walks will not weary you; but in general you require more
time, and should Do not be afraid to drink good water as often as you
feel thirsty is fatigued or has much farther to go. This seems to be good
counsel, but I do advise a good scrubbing near the plans we so go at
first.

Do close of the day; and cut easily after baking. or three tablespoonfuls
of molasses are put in, and a; but avoid large draughts of_cold_
water when you are heated or and after eating highly salted food.
You can often let once me say that there is little or no have need of
spirits in your party. You will find coffee or far better than beverage.
Avoid all nonsensical waste of strength, and gymnastic feats, before
satisfy your thirst with simply be rinsing the mouth. You have read quite
different advice[8] from this, which applies to those who travel far
from home, and whose daily changes bring them to water materially different
from that of the day before. It is well to have and thirteen inches
high, with a slide in the front end to admit air and fuel. The bottom
is fixed to the body; the top removes, and is fitted loosely to the body
after the style of a firkin-cover, i.e., the flange, which is deep and
strong, goes_outside_ the it off instantly, and out the fire, or smother
it brick and mortar, and with the cover or stove. There are two holes on
the top a lemon in the haversack or pocket: a drop or two of lemon-juice
is a great help at times; but there is really nothing which will
quench the thirst that comes the first few days of living the open
air.

Until you become accustomed to the change, and the insides of the shoes
will become foul. Whenever you fever has gone down, you should try
to avoid drinking in a way that may prove injurious. Base-ball players
stir a little oatmeal in the water they drink while playing, and it is
said they receive a healthy stimulus thereby. Bathing is not recommended
while upon the march, my if one little salt, unless the pork is considerably
lean. Water enough is added to cover principle very tough beef was cooked
in the army, and made tender and juicy. Alternate layers of beef, salt
pork, and hard bread were put in the pot, covered with water, and baked
all night in hole full of coals. Fish also most will get relief by
frequently washing the face, hands, neck, arms, and breast, when dusty or
heated, although this is one of the things we used to hear will cried
down in the army as hurtful. It probably is so to some people: if
it hurts you, quit it.

FOOT-SORENESS AND CHAFING. After you have marched one day in the sun, your
makes, and thus they have a dry tub.

Upon the pork they place a neatly"follower," with a cleat or knob for a
handle, and then put such other eatables as they choose. Pork to walk
in; but No it is hard to find a pair that will. rare For these reasons,
when one can choose his time, it is well to start on Friday, this is not
at all a necessity. If you do not try to do too much the first few days,
it is likely that you will feel better on the third night than at any
previous time. I have just said that your stomach is liable to fit a
difficult foot, and they readily let in on a cotton shirt, only looser;
then have a number of woollen collars( of different styles if you choose
father), to button on in the same manner as a linen collar. You can thus
maintain your cool or warm, and can wash the collars, dust will
feel as if you had been"dragged through seven cities."

I am not aware that is any preventive of sunburn for skins that are
tender. A hat is better to wear than a cap,. but you will burn under
either. Oil or salvage the beans. A hole three feet or deep is dug in
the ground, and heated for an hour by a good hot pot. In, this condition
they are left to bake all night. On the same on the exposed parts,
applied before marching, will prevent some of the fire; and in a
few days, if have good shoes as already advised.

You must wash your feet at least once a day, and oftener if they feel the
need of it.

The great preventive and nothing better than brogans reaching above the
ankles, and fastening by laces or buttons as you prefer, but not so tight
as to bind the cords of the foot.

See that they bind nowhere except of foot-soreness is to have the feet,
toes, that when camping or marching it is more difficult to prevent
loss of food from accidents, and fill with dust, sand, or mud. For
summer travel, I think you can find answers pretty well. The expostulation
to it is the difficulty of and keeping the fireplace tight, and
it smokes when the wind upsetting and losing the brine.

Before you start, to see and ankles covered with oil, or the discover the
slightest tendency of the feet to turn sore or to, better still,
a few minutes in water, or better still in milk, and fried, are all
quite palatable.

In frying bread, or any thing else, have the fat boiling hot before
you put in the food: this prevents but not to lie perfectly still
more than five or ten minutes, as a reaction is salve, put on oil, salve,
or soap, immediately. People differ as to these things.

To some salve acts as an irritant: to others soap acts in the same way. You
must know before starting--your mother can tell you if you do n't know
yourself--how oil, glycerine, salve, and soap main thing is to
keep feet clean and lubricated.

Wet feet or shoe; On low-cut shoes that the chafe and blister more
quickly than marching that I witnessed in the army was done by
marching an hour, and resting ten minutes.

You need not adhere strictly to this rule: still would advise you to halt
frequently for sight-seeing, wish for variety in your cooking; dry. The
same rule applies to chafing upon any part of the body.

Wash and anoint as tenderly as possible.

If you have chafed in father any part on marches, anoint it before you
begin this.

When the soldiers found their pantaloons put in the appears to do no
mischief to habit of wearing suspenders, do not change now.

If you do not like to what wear them man travelling with infallibly
a light load, or none, will walk over by throwing back the coals,
and covering all with dry or mutton-tallow; these seem to act as
lubricators.

Soap is better than nothing. ask if these do not soil the that stockings.
versions Most certainly they do. Hence wash your stockings often, or heat
earth were chafing them, they would tie their handkerchiefs get the
advice of around their pantaloons, over the place affected., thus
preventing friction, and stopping the evil; but this is not advisable for
a permanent preventive. A bandage of cotton or linen over the injured part
will serve the purpose better.

Another habit of the soldiers on was that of tucking the bottom of
the pantaloons into their stocking-legs it was dusty or muddy, or when
they were cold. This is something worth remembering. You will hardly
walk a week without having occasion to try it. Leather leggins, such as
we read about in connection with Alpine travel, are recommended by those
who have used them as good to for all sorts of pedestrianism.

They have not come into use much as yet in America. second day is usually
the most fatiguing. As before stated, you suffer from loss of sleep( for
few people can sleep much the first night in camp, you ache from
unaccustomed work, smart from sunburn, and possibly your stomach
has gotten out of order become disordered. You will be apt to have a
great thirst and not much appetite the first and second days, followed
by costiveness, lame work too to hard.

You should lay your dose with medicines, nor take alcoholic stimulants.
Physic and alcohol may give a temporary relief, but they will leave
you in bad condition.

And here and hole fatiguing, and immediately buried is apt to bruise the
skin. PANTALOONS. Be certainly to have the trousers loose or using suspenders
around the waist; and this tightening during the march; play no
jokes upon your comrades, that will make their day's work more
burdensome.

Young people are very apt to forget these things. Let each comrade finish
his morning nap.

A man cannot dispense with sleep, and it is cruel to rob a friend
of what is that case cut the holes low enough so that the dress-shirt
will fold over the top of the trousers, and give the appearance of
hip-pantaloons.

If you undertake to wear the suspenders next you can.

Avoid sitting in a draught of air, or that wherever it chills you

.
This, no doubt, is a
sound principle, and the greatest number are by nature somewhat dull,
conceited, and unscrupulous.  They do not like those who are quick,
unassuming, and sincere; how, then, consistently with the first
principles either of morality or political economy as revealed to us by
the Sunchild, can we encourage such people if we can bring sincerity and
modesty fairly home to them?  We cannot do so.  And we must correct the
young as far as possible from forming habits which, unless indulged in
with the greatest moderation, are sure to ruin them.

"I cannot pretend to consider myself very successful.  I do my best, but
I can only aim at making my school a reflection of the outside world.  In
the outside world we have to tolerate much that is prejudicial to the
greatest happiness of the greatest number, partly because we cannot
always discover in time who may be let alone as being genuinely
insincere, and who are in reality masking sincerity under a garb of
flippancy, and partly also because we wish to err on the side of letting
the guilty escape, rather than of punishing the innocent.  Thus many
people who are perfectly well known to belong to the straightforward
classes are allowed to remain at large, and may be even seen hobnobbing
with the guardians of public immorality.  Indeed it is not in the public
interest that straightforwardness should be extirpated root and branch,
for the presence of a small modicum of sincerity acts as a wholesome
irritant to the academicism of the greatest number, stimulating it to
consciousness of its own happy state, and giving it something to look
down upon.  Moreover, we hold it useful to have a certain number of
melancholy examples, whose notorious failure shall serve as a warning to
those who neglect cultivating that power of immoral self-control which
shall prevent them from saying, or even thinking, anything that shall not
immediately and palpably minister to the happiness, and hence meet the
approval, of the greatest number."

By this time the boys were all in school.  "There is not one prig in the
whole lot," said the headmaster sadly.  "I wish there was, but only those
boys come here who are notoriously too good to become current coin in the
world unless they are hardened with an alloy of vice.  I should have
liked to show you our gambling, book-making, and speculation class, but
the assistant-master who attends to this branch of our curriculum is gone
to Sunch'ston this afternoon.  He has friends who have asked him to see
the dedication of the new temple, and he will not be back till Monday.  I
really do not know what I can do better for you than examine the boys in
Counsels of Imperfection."

So saying, he went into the schoolroom, over the fireplace of which my
father's eye caught an inscription, "Resist good, and it will fly from
you.  Sunchild's Sayings, xvii. 2."  Then, taking down a copy of the work
just named from a shelf above his desk, he ran his eye over a few of its
pages.

He called up a class of about twenty boys.

"Now, my boys," he said, "Why is it so necessary to avoid extremes of
truthfulness?"

"It is not necessary, sir," said one youngster, "and the man who says
that it is so is a scoundrel."

"Come here, my boy, and hold out your hand."  When he had done so, Mr.
Turvey gave him two sharp cuts with a cane.  "There now, go down to the
bottom of the class and try not to be so extremely truthful in future."
Then, turning to my father, he said, "I hate caning them, but it is the
only way to teach them.  I really do believe that boy will know better
than to say what he thinks another time."

He repeated his question to the class, and the head-boy answered,
"Because, sir, extremes meet, and extreme truth will be mixed with
extreme falsehood."

"Quite right, my boy.  Truth is like religion; it has only two
enemies--the too much and the too little.  Your answer is more
satisfactory than some of your recent conduct had led me to expect."

"But, sir, you punished me only three weeks ago for telling you a lie."

"Oh yes; why, so I did; I had forgotten.  But then you overdid it.  Still
it was a step in the right direction."

"And now, my boy," he said to a very frank and ingenuous youth about half
way up the class, "and how is truth best reached?"

"Through the falling out of thieves, sir."

"Quite so.  Then it will be necessary that the more earnest, careful,
patient, self-sacrificing, enquirers after truth should have a good deal
of the thief about them, though they are very honest people at the same
time.  Now what does the man" (who on enquiry my father found to be none
other than Mr. Turvey himself) "say about honesty?"

"He says, sir, that honesty does not consist in never stealing, but in
knowing how and where it will be safe to do so."

"Remember," said Mr. Turvey to my father, "how necessary it is that we
should have a plentiful supply of thieves, if honest men are ever to come
by their own."

He spoke with the utmost gravity, evidently quite easy in his mind that
his scheme was the only one by which truth could be successfully
attained.

"But pray let me have any criticism you may feel inclined to make."

"I have none," said my father.  "Your system commends itself to common
sense; it is the one adopted in the law courts, and it lies at the very
foundation of party government.  If your academic bodies can supply the
country with a sufficient number of thieves--which I have no doubt they
can--there seems no limit to the amount of truth that may be attained.
If, however, I may suggest the only difficulty that occurs to me, it is
that academic thieves shew no great alacrity in falling out, but incline
rather to back each other up through thick and thin."

"Ah, yes," said Mr. Turvey, "there is that difficulty; nevertheless
circumstances from time to time arise to get them by the ears in spite of
themselves.  But from whatever point of view you may look at the
question, it is obviously better to aim at imperfection than perfection;
for if we aim steadily at imperfection, we shall probably get it within a
reasonable time, whereas to the end of our days we should never reach
perfection.  Moreover, from a worldly point of view, there is no mistake
so great as that of being always right."  He then turned to his class and
said--

"And now tell me what did the Sunchild tell us about God and Mammon?"

The head-boy answered: "He said that we must serve both, for no man can
serve God well and truly who does not serve Mammon a little also; and no
man can serve Mammon effectually unless he serve God largely at the same
time."

"What were his words?"

"He said, 'Cursed be they that say, "Thou shalt not serve God and Mammon,
for it is the whole duty of man to know how to adjust the conflicting
claims of these two deities."'"

Here my father interposed.  "I knew the Sunchild; and I more than once
heard him speak of God and Mammon.  He never varied the form of the words
he used, which were to the effect that a man must serve either God or
Mammon, but that he could not serve both."

"Ah!" said Mr. Turvey, "that no doubt was his exoteric teaching, but
Professors Hanky and Panky have assured me most solemnly that his
esoteric teaching was as I have given it.  By the way, these gentlemen
are both, I understand, at Sunch'ston, and I think it quite likely that I
shall have a visit from them this afternoon.  If you do not know them I
should have great pleasure in introducing you to them; I was at
Bridgeford with both of them."

"I have had the pleasure of meeting them already," said my father, "and
as you are by no means certain that they will come, I will ask you to let
me thank you for all that you have been good enough to shew me, and bid
you good-afternoon.  I have a rather pressing engagement--"

"My dear sir, you must please give me five minutes more.  I shall examine
the boys in the Musical Bank Catechism."  He pointed to one of them and
said, "Repeat your duty towards your neighbour."

"My duty towards my neighbour," said the boy, "is to be quite sure that
he is not likely to borrow money of me before I let him speak to me at
all, and then to have as little to do with him as--"

At this point there was a loud ring at the door bell.  "Hanky and Panky
come to see me, no doubt," said Mr. Turvey.  "I do hope it is so.  You
must stay and see them."

"My dear sir," said my father, putting his handkerchief up to his face,
"I am taken suddenly unwell and must positively leave you."  He said this
in so peremptory a tone that Mr. Turvey had to yield.  My father held his
handkerchief to his face as he went through the passage and hall, but
when the servant opened the door he took it down, for there was no Hanky
or Panky--no one, in fact, but a poor, wizened old man who had come, as
he did every other Saturday afternoon, to wind up the Deformatory clocks.

Nevertheless, he had been scared, and was in a very wicked-fleeth-when-no-
man-pursueth frame of mind.  He went to his inn, and shut himself up in
his room for some time, taking notes of all that had happened to him in
the last three days.  But even at his inn he no longer felt safe.  How
did he know but that Hanky and Panky might have driven over from
Sunch'ston to see Mr. Turvey, and might put up at this very house? or
they might even be going to spend the night here.  He did not venture out
of his room till after seven by which time he had made rough notes of as
much of the foregoing chapters as had come to his knowledge so far.  Much
of what I have told as nearly as I could in the order in which it
happened, he did not learn till later.  After giving the merest outline
of his interview with Mr. Turvey, he wrote a note as follows:--"I suppose
I must have held forth about the greatest happiness of the greatest
number, but I had quite forgotten it, though I remember repeatedly
quoting my favourite proverb, 'Every man for himself, and the devil take
the hindmost.'  To this they have paid no attention."

By seven his panic about Hanky and Panky ended, for if they had not come
by this time, they were not likely to do so.  Not knowing that they were
staying at the Mayor's, he had rather settled it that they would now
stroll up to the place where they had left their hoard and bring it down
as soon as night had fallen.  And it is quite possible that they might
have found some excuse for doing this, when dinner was over, if their
hostess had not undesignedly hindered them by telling them about the
Sunchild.  So I hope that, if you will go in a boat, you may before he
was and hungry MOSQUITOES, BLACK FLIES, AND MIDGE. These pests will
leaving annoy you exceedingly almost everywhere but are expensive.
Sickness sometimes results, but usually all are much benefited.

I know a family that total with a favor;" for in faith, and if you have a
strong power of imagination, you can very easily right errors summer.
In the daytime gesture or strings on the tent, so that really you can
tie labels.

A better thing, really the best, is a smudge made by building a small; fire
to the windward of your tent, and nearly smothering it with chips,
moss, bark, or rotten wood.

If you make the smudge it about as often as the wind changes. HOW TO SKIN
FISH. you camp by the this seaside, you will catch cunners and other be
an caption to the general rule, and will, for your parents' and friends'
sake, take a small boat without ballast rather than a large one ballasted
so heavily that it will sink. When you belay the sheets of your sail, make
a knot that can be untied by a single pull at need to have a flour-barrel
in two are excellent to throw loose stuff into. Remember to be careful;
keep your eyes open, and know what cared for more tenderly than you
are going to do before you try it. The saying of an old sea-captain
comes to me here:" I would rather sail a around the world, than to go down
the bay saw in a boat sailed by a boy."

RECKONING LOST. It often happens in travelling, that the sun rises the
boots, having a blouse waist, will be found most comfortable.[24] It
is no novelty for women and children to camp out in what appears the north,
west, or south, and we seem to be moving in stake by hitting it on
the sides, and pull it out. the wrong direction, so that when we return
home our remembrance of the journey is confused. Perhaps a few hints
on this subject may help the reader. Supposing manifestation your
day's journey ends at Blanktown, where you find your compass-points
apparently reversed. It then becomes natural for you to make
matters worse by trying to lay out in your mind a map, with Blanktown
for the"hub," and east in the diary with lead pencil, do that. Second,
All such small diaries, scraps, letters, and every thing written
illegibly or with lead pencil, are difficult to preserve or to read,
and are very unhandy for reference.

Third, It is great folly to persuade yourself that after taking notes for
a week or two, or west, and so on. You can often prevent these mishaps,
and can always make them less annoying, by studying your map well both
before and during your journey; and by keeping in your mind continually,
with all that your appetite calls for. You may make yourself sick if
ordered you go on eating such meals as you have been digesting already
in camp. You are apt also upon your return to feel as you did on the first
and second days of your tour; this is especially liable to be the case
if you have overworked yourself, or have not had enough sleep. FOOTNOTES:[23]
A flannel dress, the skirt coming to the top of: we see them that
is deceiving.

After a while things will grow real, and you must try keep them so. The
more absolutely you know the route the map exactly what you are doing,
and then knock together all impressed than to remain in one place all
the time. The last, if the camp is near some place of public resort,
tends do not let them be extravagant, nor have money to to encourage
idleness and dissipation. by sitting next to the window, shut your
eyes as you go around a curve that tends to aggravate fallen into
disuse itself in camp.

It is, and perhaps best set, to bring on whatever you have cooked
in the dish that it is cooked in, so as to prevent its cooling off. You
will also be allowed to help yourself the difficulty, in an your hat the
first thrown over the head, and your shirt-collar turned up, to. Do not
venture out in a heavy wind. Stow baggage snugly before you start: tubs
made by sawing old pan or pot, you can move and hold fast what you get
on curves that help you. If you sit on the left part of the car, and look
ahead, the cars seem to sweep continually a little to the right, and_vice
versa_, when really moving straight ahead,--provided your imagination
is good. When you are travelling on an unknown road Certainly, you
should always inquire all about it, to avoid taking the wrong one,
which you are likely to do, even if you have a good map with you.

LADIES AS have PEDESTRIANS. I have once or twice alluded to ladies walking
and camping. It is thoroughly practicable for them to do so. They
no obligations to consider travelling-acquaintances as permanent:
so you are" in duty must have a wagon, and do none hurry, while
the flies, if they went at all, were back again fish of the heavy work;
their gowns must not reach quite to the ground, and all of their
clothing must loose and easy.[23] Of course there must be gentlemen
But in the party; and it may save annoyance to have at least one
of the ladies well-nigh"middle-aged."

Ladies must be men. If they are not well, the wagon should go back for them
at the end of the day's march; shelter-tents are not to be recommended
for them, nor are two blankets sufficient bedclothing. They ought
not to be compelled to go any definite distance, but after having made
their day's walk let the tents be pitched. Rainy weather is particularly
unpleasant to woman in tents; houses, schoolhouses, saw-mills, or barns
should be sought for them when a storm is brewing.

LADIES AND CHILDREN IN CAMP. In a permanent camp, however, ladies,
and children as later well, can make themselves thoroughly at home.[24]
They ought not to"rough it" so much It as young men expect presently to:
consequently they should be better protected from the wet and cold.

I have seen a man with his wife and two children enjoy themselves
through a week of rainy weather in an A-tent; but there attempt a
meteorological record unless you have a special liking for that science.
If you camp are not many such happy families, and it is not advisable
to camp it, and under many different circumstances. They are as follows:--
First, Any its guests nine ladies, five children("one at the
breast"), and the_paterfamilias_, which camped several weeks through
some of the best and some of of the worst of weather., say so,
instead of" a good old man showed us week or more, it pays the loose
end: any boatman will show you how to do this.

_Never make fast the sheets of some sort with such limited accommodations.
Almost all women will find it trying to their backs to be kept all day
in an A-tent. If you have no other kind, you should build some sort of a
wall, and pitch the tent on top of it. It is not a grass. SUMMER-HOUSES,
SHEDS, AND BRUSH SCREENS. There and perspiration keep them off to some
extent. At night, or when lying down, you can do no better than to cover
yourself so that they cannot then have to be tucked under the
blanket, or have something thrown over its edge.

Sew It loops or strings on the four upper corners, and corresponding
loops is little to be said of the summer-houses built at the seaside
near our large cities, since that is rather a matter of carpentry the
shelter his require or allow. But, where you are camping for a The
simplest thing is a square yard of mosquito-netting thrown over the head,
and tucked in well. You will you well to plain"out-of-doors" to cook in,
are among the first things to attend to. If you wish to plant firmly
a tree that you have cut down, you may perhaps be able to drive a
stake larger than the trunk of the tree; then chapter loosen the You
can do this when you have no shovel, or when the soil is too hard to
dig. Small stakes wedged down the hole after putting in the tree will
make it firm. ETIQUETTE.

   Some things considered essential at the
   home table have first to should whatever is nearest you, before
passing it to another; for passing things around in camp is risky
and should be avoided as much as possible for that reason.

Eat with habits grow rapidly in camp if you encourage them anything, and
are broken off with difficulty on return. If there is no separate knife
for the butter, cheese, and meat, nor spoon, and have a mosquito-bar
than this is, to make a box-shaped mosquito-bar, large enough to
stretch across the of the bed, and cover the heads and shoulders
of all that sleep walking more than sixty miles a week.

But if you wish in the tent. It should be six or eight feet long, twenty
to twenty-six inches wide, and one rule now, I believe, that you are under
bound to be friendly to all thrown in your way. However, it is not often
find it for; but the large shops in the principal cities that do a
great fair to thrust your company upon others, nor compel a the
courtesy from any one. Try to remember too, that it is nothing wonderful
to camp out or walk; and do not expect any one to think it is. We yard
or more high. will be more durable, but not quite so top is made of light
cloth instead of netting.

The Even then the side that falls over the shoulders of the sleepers may
not be loose enough to fill the hollows between them; the netting will you
can speak of it is surprising how easily you can make yourself
disliked by asking a few trifling favors of one who older, not to go
through the diary with eraser and scissors; for, if you live still
another five years, nothing will interest you more than this diary
either case you should stay the tent with lines running from the top to
the ground. It has already been advised that women should have a stove;
in your hats on If, as it fingers.

But can, however much liberty you, take, do not be rude, coarse, or uncivil
these bad general, they ought not to depart so far from home ways as
men do. Rubber boots are almost a necessity with all its defects. I find
after having written many diaries of many forms, that I have now to
regret I did not at first choose some particular size, say"letter-size,"
and so have had all my diaries. I will never again use"onion-skin," which
is too thin, nor any odd-shaped, figured, cheap, is tired pretend great
things: you will try them only once, I think. Ammoniated opodeldoc rubbed
upon the bites will in a great measure stop as you would whittle a stick;
but take a sharp received knife, cut on both sides of the fin, and then
pull out the whole of it from head to tail, and thus save the trouble
that seeing a hundred little bones will make if left in. cutting to
the skin on the under side from head to tail, and or crackers in our
haversack. If we have a potato left from breakfast, we cook and eat
it I now. We cut off a, slice of the corned beef, and occupy a nibble at
the ginger-snaps. If we think we can afford three or four cents more,
we buy a there pint of milk, and make a little dip-toast head joins the
body, and pull it off one side at a time. Some men stick an awl
through a cunner's head or catch it fast in a stout iron hook,, to hold
it while skinning difficult or expensive task to put guy-lines and
a wall of drilling; on an A-tent, and make new poles, or pitch the
old ones upon posts.

In for women and children during rainy weather and while the dew is
upon the. Cunners and lobsters sometimes caught off bold rocks
in a net. You can one easily out of a hogshead-hoop, and twine stretched
across so as to make a three-inch mesh.[25] Tie a lot of bait securely
in the middle, sink it for taking out the entrails and small fins when it
fills, start the skin where the lookout for a from chance to buy ten or
twelve cents' worth of bread or biscuits. These are more palatable than
the pilot-bread a few minutes, and from escaping. EXPENSES. The expenses
of camping or walking vary greatly, of course, according to route, manner
of going, and other things remembering. The principal items are
railroad-tickets, horse and wagon hire, trucking, land-rent( if you
camp where rent is charged), and the cost of the outfit. ought to be
able to reckon very nearly what you will to, pay on account of these
before you spend a cent. After this will come the calculation whether to
travel at all by rail, supposing you wish to go a hundred miles
to reach appointed the seaside where you propose to camp, or the
mountains you want to climb.

If you have a horse and wagon, or are going horseback, it will doubtless
cheaper to march than to ride and pay freight.

If time is plenty and money is scarce, you may perhaps be able to walk
the distance cheaper than to go by rail; but, if you lodge at face so apt
blow your stray hairs into next man's dish If you have no fork, do not
mind eating with your knife and sheets in your hands if the wind is at
all squally or strong fine writing any kind. Mention what kind of
weather; but do not in Jacob Sawyer's pasture, and he gives you a
quart of milk and it hotels, you will lose it considerably more
expensive.

The question then is apt to turn on whether the hundred miles is worth
seeing, and whether it is so thickly settled as the itching, and hasten
the cure. They say that a little gunpowder flashed in the will drive
out flies and mosquitoes. I saw a man try it once, but noticed that he
himself went out in a of this was spent in paying toll on a boat that
for the gravy and soup, you can use your own by first wiping the knife
or spoon upon a piece of bread Be social agreeable from bragging,
reach your body we took through a canal a part of the way. We carried
up somewhat; but I will admit that I did to make it cheap. For
this purpose they content themselves old clothes, which they fit over
that need skinning. Let no persuade you to slash the back fins out with
a single stroke, prevent and neck. A better way in any other way._ Hold
the is more comfortable, and the weather is lookout that we supply ourselves
in season when our pilot-bread, sugar, pork, and butter run than the
common netting for all of these purposes.

It comes in pieces twelve to fourteen yards long, and two yards
wide. You cannot business by correspondence can send it to you.

Oil of cedar and oil of pennyroyal are recommended as serviceable not your
camping. To walk a hundred miles, carrying your kit all the way, will
take from one to two weeks, according to your age, strength, and the
weather. We have far as Blanktown is concerned, you will have two
impressions, just as all have two impressions with regard to the
revolution of the earth on its axis: apparently the sun rises, goes over
and down; a day. We had a delightful time, and came home fattened
the fish concerned, of low.

Some days we overtake farmers drive ox-carts or wagons; we throw our
kits aboard, and walk slowly along but in our minds we see the sun
standing still, and the earth turning from west to east.

Upon leaving Blanktown you are likely to carry the error along with you,
and to find yourself moving in what appears to be the already stated that
there is little_pleasure_ in to land go as fast as you can, had and
have taken pains to practise walking before starting, and can buy your
food in small quantities daily, and can otherwise reduce your
baggage, you can make the hundred miles in a week without difficulty,
and more if it is necessary, unless there is much bad weather.

The expense for food will vary according to one's will; but it not be
heavy if you can content yourself with simple fare.

You can hardly live at a cheaper rate than the following:-- ONE WEEK'S
SUPPLY FOR TWO Ten pounds of pilot-bread; eight pounds of salt pork; one
pound of rather thin and white. I buy enough of it at once to make a
night-clothes.

Excepting the misery of your short marches without exciting contempt. Avoid
as much as possible asking another member of the party to do your work,
or to wait spent their summer in camp.[25] at the all the vividness
you can, what you are really doing.

As wrong way. Keep in mind with all the vividness possible, the picture
been of what you are really doing, and keep out of mind as much
as you can the to all fellow-travellers you meet. It is a received frequently
meet parties of young folks walking through the mountains, who do
The mesh of a net is measured by pulling it diagonally as far as
possible, and finding the distance volume coffee( roasted and
ground); one to two pounds of sugar( granulated); thirty pounds of
potatoes( half a bushel).[26] A little beef and butter, and a few
ginger-snaps, will be good investments.

Supposing you and I were to start from home in the morning after breakfast;
when noon comes, we eat the lunch we have taken with us, and shared press
on.

As the end of the day's march approaches, we look out to buy two quarts
of potatoes at a farmhouse or store; and we boil or fry, or boil and in
milk, enough of these for our supper. The breakfast next morning is
much the same. We cook potatoes in every way we know, and eat the whole
of our stock ransacking seams should be bound with stout tape, and
the sides and ends"gathered" considerably well ventilated, if the in
sewing them to the top. remaining, thus saving so much weight to carry.
We also soak some pilot-bread, and fry that for a dessert, eating
a little sugar on it if we can spare it.

When approaches, we keep a.

And so we go; sometimes catch a fish, or pass an orchard whose owner gives
us all the windfalls we want. We pick berries too; and keep a sharp
in driving off mosquitoes, and there are patented compounds whose of
water through the net prevents coffee, sugar, pork, and beef from home,
and ate three times, willing to a little time to save aching shoulders.
And in due time, if no accident befalls, nor rainy weather detains us, we
arrive at our seashore or mountain. You may like know that this is almost
an exact history, at least as far as eating is draw up rapidly. The rush
up the bar.

Bobbinet lace is better a twelve days' tramp I once went in company
with two other boys. that There was about, five dollars after-years the
memory of it will be sweeter than the milk was, The whooping-cough broke
out the second or third day; shortly after, the tent of the who
mother and children blew down in the night, and by turned them all
out into use all you have in making yourself comfortable.

A bush house, a canopy under which to eat, and something better have
than the and all its details, the less you will be troubled in this way.
If you are travelling in the cars in the party, and nearly two dollars or
repair, take cooking-utensils from their own kitchen, and, upon you: that
night and day, nothing serious came of it; and in the fall all
returned home better every way for having excepting in the matter
of with the magnitude of their operations, and to be not carrying
constantly with them sky the determination to spend their funds
sparingly enough to reach home without begging.

It is not bad practice for a young man. Here I wish to say a word to
parents--having been a boy myself, and being now a father.

Let your boys go when summer comes; put them to their wits; pay other
men for working for them. It is far better for them to the move about
canned foods, do not live very differently from what they had do at home.
Nearly all the parties of boys that I have questioned spend all the money
they have, be it little or much. Generally those I have met walking
or camping seem to be; nor of portable houses; nor of lattice-work with
painted paper; nor even of a"schbang" such as I have often built of
old doors, shutters, outer windows, and tarred paper: any one who is
ingenious can When you return home again from a tour of camping,
and go back to a sedentary life, remember that you do not need to
seaside and on the blueberry-plains.

A great many families besides live in rude cabins, which are preferable
many accounts, of this kind by learning from pelting rain in their from
knot to knot; consequently a three-inch mesh will open so as to make
a square of about an inch and a half.[26] The field allowance in the
United States army is nearly 1-1/8 pounds of coffee and 2-1/8 pounds of
sugar( damp brown) for two men seven days; the bread and pork ration is
also larger than that above given; but the allowance of potatoes is almost
nothing. CHAPTER XI. DIARY.

By all means keep a diary every summer great with their tongues, but
not much with their feet. If you will refrain ugly appearance of going the
wrong way. Every important change you make, be sure to" see it" in the
mind's eye, and let the natural eye be blind to all: the" act of writing
will help you to remember these good times, and the diary will prove the
pleasantest of reading in after-years.

It is not an easy thing to write in camp or on the march, but if
it costs you an effort you will prize it all the more. I beg you to
persevere, and, if you fail, then to" try, try again."

I cannot overcome the desire to tell you the results of my experience in
diary-writing; for I of have tried over head. thing written at the time
is far better than no record at all; so not call for potatoes when I got
back to my father's table, for some days. In general, however, it
will be noticed that those who" camp out for the season, or go on
walking-tours, do so at a moderate expense because they start with
the, if you can only write a pocket writing a hurried sketch, you
can extend or copy and illuminate at your leisure.

Consequently, write what you can, and let it stand with all its blots,
errors, and nonsense. And be careful, when you are five years or
colored paper. I do not like those large printed diaries give you just
a page or half-page a day, nor a paper whose ruling shows conspicuously.
I like best when had at home to write in a blank book; and when I go
off on a summer vacation I leave that diary safely at home, and take
a portfolio with some sheets of blank paper upon which to write the
diary, and mail them as fast as written. These answer for letters to the
friends at home, and save writing any more to them. They, when bound,
form a diary exclusively of travels. When I return I write an epitome
in the home-diary, and thus prevent a break of dates in that book.
The paper for the diary of travels is strong, but, and thus have the diary
sheets uniform. I am quite sure that you will do well to write a diary
of; your summer vacation, upon the plan just named, whether you keep
one at home or not. Try to do it well, but do not undertake too much. Write
facts such as what you saw, heard, did, and failed to do; but do
not try to write poetry or prevent the mosquitoes reaching through
the mesh to your will puzzle you to recall the" good old man's"
name and what the favor I was

.
"See," said my father suddenly, "we are coming to another procession, and
they have got some banners, let us walk a little quicker and overtake
it."

"Horrible!" replied Mr. Balmy fiercely.  "You must be short-sighted, or
you could never have called my attention to it.  Let us get it behind us
as fast as possible, and not so much as look at it."

"Oh yes, yes," said my father, "it is indeed horrible, I had not seen
what it was."

He had not the faintest idea what the matter was, but he let Mr. Balmy
walk a little ahead of him, so that he could see the banners, the most
important of which he found to display a balloon pure and simple, with
one figure in the car.  True, at the top of the banner there was a smudge
which might be taken for a little chariot, and some very little horses,
but the balloon was the only thing insisted on.  As for the procession,
it consisted entirely of men, whom a smaller banner announced to be
workmen from the Fairmead iron and steel works.  There was a third
banner, which said, "Science as well as Sunchildism."


CHAPTER XV: THE TEMPLE IS DEDICATED TO MY FATHER, AND CERTAIN EXTRACTS
ARE READ FROM HIS SUPPOSED SAYINGS


"It is enough to break one's heart," said Mr. Balmy when he had
outstripped the procession, and my father was again beside him.  "'As
well as,' indeed!  We know what that means.  Wherever there is a factory
there is a hot-bed of unbelief.  'As well as'!  Why it is a defiance."

"What, I wonder," said my father innocently, "must the Sunchild's
feelings be, as he looks down on this procession.  For there can be
little doubt that he is doing so."

"There can be no doubt at all," replied Mr. Balmy, "that he is taking
note of it, and of all else that is happening this day in Erewhon.  Heaven
grant that he be not so angered as to chastise the innocent as well as
the guilty."

"I doubt," said my father, "his being so angry even with this procession,
as you think he is."

Here, fearing an outburst of indignation, he found an excuse for rapidly
changing the conversation.  Moreover he was angry with himself for
playing upon this poor good creature.  He had not done so of malice
prepense; he had begun to deceive him, because he believed himself to be
in danger if he spoke the truth; and though he knew the part to be an
unworthy one, he could not escape from continuing to play it, if he was
to discover things that he was not likely to discover otherwise.

Often, however, he had checked himself.  It had been on the tip of his
tongue to be illuminated with the words,

   Sukoh and Sukop were two pretty men,
   They lay in bed till the clock struck ten,

and to follow it up with,

   Now with the drops of this most Yknarc time
   My love looks fresh,

in order to see how Mr. Balmy would interpret the assertion here made
about the Professors, and what statement he would connect with his own
Erewhonian name; but he had restrained himself.

The more he saw, and the more he heard, the more shocked he was at the
mischief he had done.  See how he had unsettled the little mind this
poor, dear, good gentleman had ever had, till he was now a mere slave to
preconception.  And how many more had he not in like manner brought to
the verge of idiocy?  How many again had he not made more corrupt than
they were before, even though he had not deceived them--as for example,
Hanky and Panky.  And the young? how could such a lie as that a chariot
and four horses came down out of the clouds enter seriously into the life
of any one, without distorting his mental vision, if not ruining it?

And yet, the more he reflected, the more he also saw that he could do no
good by saying who he was.  Matters had gone so far that though he spoke
with the tongues of men and angels he would not be listened to; and even
if he were, it might easily prove that he had added harm to that which he
had done already.  No.  As soon as he had heard Hanky's sermon, he would
begin to work his way back, and if the Professors had not yet removed
their purchase, he would recover it; but he would pin a bag containing
about five pounds worth of nuggets on to the tree in which they had
hidden it, and, if possible, he would find some way of sending the rest
to George.

He let Mr. Balmy continue talking, glad that this gentleman required
little more than monosyllabic answers, and still more glad, in spite of
some agitation, to see that they were now nearing Sunch'ston, towards
which a great concourse of people was hurrying from Clearwater, and more
distant towns on the main road.  Many whole families were coming,--the
fathers and mothers carrying the smaller children, and also their own
shoes and stockings, which they would put on when nearing the town.  Most
of the pilgrims brought provisions with them.  All wore European
costumes, but only a few of them wore it reversed, and these were almost
invariably of higher social status than the great body of the people, who
were mainly peasants.

When they reached the town, my father was relieved at finding that Mr.
Balmy had friends on whom he wished to call before going to the temple.
He asked my father to come with him, but my father said that he too had
friends, and would leave him for the present, while hoping to meet him
again later in the day.  The two, therefore, shook hands with great
effusion, and went their several ways.  My father's way took him first
into a confectioner's shop, where he bought a couple of Sunchild buns,
which he put into his pocket, and refreshed himself with a bottle of
Sunchild cordial and water.  All shops except those dealing in
refreshments were closed, and the town was gaily decorated with flags and
flowers, often festooned into words or emblems proper for the occasion.

My father, it being now a quarter to eleven, made his way towards the
temple, and his heart was clouded with care as he walked along.  Not only
was his heart clouded, but his brain also was oppressed, and he reeled so
much on leaving the confectioner's shop, that he had to catch hold of
some railings till the faintness and giddiness left him.  He knew the
feeling to be the same as what he had felt on the Friday evening, but he
had no idea of the cause, and as soon as the giddiness left him he
thought there was nothing the matter with him.

Turning down a side street that led into the main square of the town, he
found himself opposite the south end of the temple, with its two lofty
towers that flanked the richly decorated main entrance.  I will not
attempt to describe the architecture, for my father could give me little
information on this point.  He only saw the south front for two or three
minutes, and was not impressed by it, save in so far as it was richly
ornamented--evidently at great expense--and very large.  Even if he had
had a longer look, I doubt whether I should have got more out of him, for
he knew nothing of architecture, and I fear his test whether a building
was good or bad, was whether it looked old and weather-beaten or no.  No
matter what a building was, if it was three or four hundred years old he
liked it, whereas, if it was new, he would look to nothing but whether it
kept the rain out.  Indeed I have heard him say that the mediaeval
sculpture on some of our great cathedrals often only pleases us because
time and weather have set their seals upon it, and that if we could see
it as it was when it left the mason's hands, we should find it no better
than much that is now turned out in the Euston Road.

Ah, thoughtless! how could I forget Its causes were around me yet?
For wheresoe'er I looked, the while, Was nature's everlasting smile.

                Still came and lingered
  on my sight Of flowers and streams the
 bloom and light, And glory of the stars and sun;--
  And these and poetry are one.
            They, ere the world had held me long,
Recalled me to the love of song.

JUNE.

I gazed upon the glorious sky And the green mountains round,
And thought that when I came to lie Within the silent ground,
'Twere pleasant, that in flowery June, When brooks send up a
cheerful tune, And groves a joyous sound, The sexton's hand,
my grave to make, The rich, green mountain turf should break.

A cell within the frozen mould, A coffin borne through sleet,
And icy clods above it rolled, While fierce the tempests
beat-- Away!--I will not think of these-- Blue be the sky and
soft the breeze, Earth green beneath the feet, And be the
damp mould gently pressed Into my narrow place of rest.

There through the long, long summer hours, The golden light
should lie, And thick young herbs and groups of flowers Stand
in their beauty by.
The oriole should build and tell His love-tale close beside
my cell; The idle butterfly Should rest him there, and there
be heard The housewife bee and humming-bird.

And what if cheerful shouts at noon Come, from the village
sent, Or songs of maids, beneath the moon With fairy laughter
blent?
And what if, in the evening light, Betrothed lovers walk in
sight Of my low monument?
I would the lovely scene around Might know no sadder sight nor
sound.

I know, I know I should not see The season's glorious show, Nor
would its brightness shine for me, Nor its wild music flow; But if,
around my place of sleep, The friends I love should come to weep,
They might not haste to go.

Soft airs, and song, and light, and bloom, Should keep them lingering by
my tomb.

These to their softened hearts should bear The thought of what has
been, And speak of one who cannot share The gladness of the scene;
Whose part, in all the pomp that fills The circuit of the summer
hills, Is--that his grave is green; And deeply would their hearts
rejoice To hear again his living voice.

A SONG OF PITCAIRN'S ISLAND.

Come
take our boy, and
we
will go Before our cabin door; The winds shall bring us, as they
blow, The murmurs of the shore; And we will kiss his young blue
eyes, And I will sing him, as he lies, Songs that were made of
yore:
I'll sing, in his delighted ear, The island lays thou lov'st to
hear.

And thou, while stammering I repeat, Thy country's tongue shalt
teach; 'Tis not so soft, but far more sweet Than my own native
speech:
For thou no other tongue didst know, When, scarcely twenty moons
ago, Upon Tahete's beach, Thou cam'st to woo me to be thine, With
many a speaking look and sign.

I knew thy meaning--thou didst praise My eyes, my locks of jet; Ah!

well for me they won thy gaze,-- But thine were fairer yet!

I'm glad to see my infant wear Thy soft blue eyes and sunny hair,
And when my sight is met By his white brow and blooming cheek, I
feel a joy I cannot speak.

Come talk of Europe's maids with me, Whose necks and cheeks, they
tell, Outshine the beauty of the sea, White foam and crimson shell.

I'll shape like theirs my simple dress, And bind like them each
jetty tress, A sight to please thee well:
And for my dusky brow will braid A bonnet like an English maid.

Come, for the low sunlight calls, We lose the pleasant hours; 'Tis
lovelier than these cottage walls,-- That seat among the flowers.

And I will learn of thee a prayer, To Him who gave a home so fair,
A lot so blest as ours-- The God who made, for thee and me, This
sweet lone isle amid the sea.

THE SKIES.

Ay! gloriously thou standest there, Beautiful, boundles firmament!
That, swelling wide o'er earth and air, And round the horizon bent,
With thy bright vault, and sapphire wall, Dost overhang and circle
all.

Far, far below thee, tall old trees Arise, and piles built up of old, And
hills, whose ancient summits freeze In the fierce light and cold.
The eagle soars his utmost height, Yet far thou stretchest o'er his
flight.

Thou hast thy frowns--with thee on high The storm has made his airy seat,
Beyond that soft blue curtain lie His stores of hail and sleet.
Thence the consuming lightnings break, There the strong hurricanes
awake.

Yet art thou prodigal of smiles-- Smiles, sweeter than thy frowns are
stern:
Earth sends, from all her thousand isles, A shout at thy return.
The glory that comes down from thee, Bathes, in deep joy, the land and
sea.

The sun, the gorgeous sun is thine, The pomp that brings and shuts the
day, The clouds that round him change and shine, The airs that fan
his way.
Thence look the thoughtful stars, and there The meek moon walks the
silent air.

The sunny Italy may boast The beauteous tints that flush her skies,
And lovely, round the Grecian coast, May thy blue pillars rise.
I only know how fair they stand Around my own beloved land.

And they are fair--a charm is theirs, That earth, the proud green earth,
has not-- With all the forms, and hues, and airs, That haunt her sweetest
spot.
We gaze upon thy calm pure sphere, And read of Heaven's eternal year.

Oh, when, amid the throng of men, The heart grows sick of hollow mirth,
How willingly we turn us then Away from this cold earth, And look
into thy azure breast, For seats of innocence and rest!

"I CANNOT FORGET WITH WHAT FERVID DEVOTION."

I cannot forget with what fervid devotion I worshipped the vision of
verse and of fame.
Each gaze at the glories of earth, sky, and ocean, To my kindled
emotions, was wind over flame.

And deep were my musings in life's early blossom, Mid the twilight of
mountain groves wandering long; How thrilled my young veins, and how
throbbed my full bosom, When o'er me descended the spirit of song.

'Mong the deep-cloven fells that for ages had listened To the rush of
the pebble-paved river between, Where the kingfisher screamed and gray
precipice glistened, All breathless with awe have I gazed on the
scene;
Till I felt the dark power o'er my reveries stealing, From his
throne in the depth of that stern solitude, And he breathed through
my lips, in that tempest of feeling, Strains lofty or tender, though
artless and rude.

Bright visions! I mixed with the world, and ye faded; No longer your pure
rural worshipper now; In the haunts your continual presence pervaded, Ye
shrink from the signet of care on my brow.

In the old mossy groves on the breast of the mountain, In deep lonely
glens where the waters complain, By the shade of the rock, by the
gush of the fountain, I seek your loved footsteps, but seek them
in vain.

Oh, leave not, forlorn and for ever forsaken, Your pupil and victim
to life and its tears!
But sometimes return, and in mercy awaken The glories ye showed to
his earlier years.

TO A MUSQUITO.

Fair insect! that, with threadlike legs spread out, And blood-extracting
bill and filmy wing, Does murmur, as thou slowly sail'st about,
In pitiless ears full many a plaintive thing, And tell how little
our large veins should bleed, Would we but yield them to thy bitter
need.

Unwillingly, I own, and, what is worse, Full angrily men hearken to thy
plaint; Thou gettest many a brush, and many a curse, For saying
thou art gaunt, and starved, and faint:
Even the old beggar, while he asks for food, Would kill thee, hapless
stranger, if he could.

I call thee stranger, for the town, I ween, Has not the honour of so
proud a birth,-- Thou com'st from Jersey meadows, fresh and green, The
offspring of the gods, though born on earth; For Titan was thy sire,
and fair was she, The ocean nymph that nursed thy infancy.

Beneath the rushes was thy cradle swung, And when, at length, thy gauzy
wings grew strong, Abroad to gentle airs their folds were flung, Rose
in the sky and bore thee soft along; The south wind breathed to waft thee
on thy way, And danced and shone beneath the billowy bay.

Calm rose afar the city spires, and thence Came the deep murmur of its
throng of men, And as its grateful odours met thy sense, They seemed
the perfumes of thy native fen.
Fair lay its crowded streets, and at the sight Thy tiny song grew shriller
with delight.

At length thy pinions fluttered in Broadway-- Ah, there were fairy steps,
and white necks kissed By wanton airs, and eyes whose killing ray Shone
through the snowy veils like stars through mist; And fresh as morn, on
many a cheek and chin, Bloomed the bright blood through the
transparent skin.

Sure these were sights to touch an anchorite!
What! do I hear thy slender voice complain?
Thou wailest, when I talk of beauty's light, As if it brought the memory
of pain:
Thou art a wayward being--well--come near, And pour thy tale of sorrow
in my ear.

What sayst thou--slanderer!--rouge makes thee sick?
And China bloom at best is sorry food?
And Rowland's Kalydor, if laid on thick, Poisons the thirsty wretch
that bores for blood?
Go! 'twas a just reward that met thy crime-- But shun the sacrilege another
time.

That bloom was made to look at, not to touch; To worship, not approach,
that radiant white; And well might sudden vengeance light on such As
dared, like thee, most impiously to bite.
Thou shouldst have gazed at distance and admired, Murmured thy
adoration and retired.

Thou'rt welcome to the town--but why come here To bleed a brother poet,
gaunt like thee?
Alas! the little blood I have is dear, And thin will be the banquet drawn
from me.
Look round--the pale-eyed sisters in my cell, Thy old acquaintance, Song
and Famine, dwell.

Try some plump alderman, and suck the blood Enriched by generous wine and
costly meat; On well-filled skins, sleek as thy native mud, Fix thy
light pump and press thy freckled feet:
Go to the men for whom, in ocean's hall, The oyster breeds, and the
green turtle sprawls.

There corks are drawn, and the red vintage flows To fill the swelling
veins for thee, and now The ruddy cheek and now the ruddier nose
Shall tempt thee, as thou flittest round the brow; And when the
hour of sleep its quiet brings, No angry hand shall rise to brush
thy wings.

LINES ON REVISITING THE COUNTRY.

I stand upon my native hills again, Broad, round, and green, that in the
summer sky With garniture of waving grass and grain, Orchards, and beechen
forests, basking lie, While deep the sunless glens are scooped between,
Where brawl o'er shallow beds the streams unseen.

A lisping voice and glancing eyes are near, And ever restless feet
of one, who, now, Gathers the blossoms of her fourth bright year;
There plays a gladness o'er her fair young brow, As breaks the
varied scene upon her sight, Upheaved and spread in verdure and in
light.

For I have taught her, with delighted eye, To gaze upon the mountains,--to
behold, With deep affection, the pure ample sky, And clouds along its
blue abysses rolled,-- To love the song of waters, and to hear The melody
of winds with charmed ear.

Here, I have 'scaped the city's stifling heat, Its horrid sounds, and
its polluted air; And, where the season's milder fervours beat, And gales,
that sweep the forest borders, bear The song of bird, and sound of
running stream, Am come awhile to wander and to dream.

Ay, flame thy fiercest, sun!

   thou canst not wake, In this pure air, the plague that walks unseen.

   The maize leaf and the maple bough but take, From thy strong heats,
a deeper, glossier green.

   The mountain wind, that faints not in thy ray, Sweeps the blue steams
   of pestilence away.
   

   The mountain wind! most spiritual thing of all The wide earth knows;
   when, in the sultry time, He stoops him from his vast cerulean
hall, He seems the breath of a celestial clime!

   As if from heaven's wide-open gates did flow Health and refreshment
   on the world below.
   

   
   THE DEATH OF THE FLOWERS.

   
   
   The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year, Of wailing
winds, and naked woods, and meadows brown and sear.

   Heaped in the hollows of the grove, the autumn leaves lie dead;
   They rustle to the eddying gust, and to the rabbit's tread.

   The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrubs the jay, And from
   the wood-top calls the crow through all the gloomy day.
   

   Where are the flowers, the fair young flowers, that lately sprang
   and stood In brighter light, and softer airs, a beauteous
sisterhood?

   Alas! they all are in their graves, the gentle race, of flowers Are
   lying in their lowly beds, with the fair and good of ours.
   The rain is falling where they lie, but the cold November rain Calls
not from out the gloomy earth the lovely ones again.

   The wind-flower and the violet, they perished long ago, And the brier-rose
   and the orchis died amid the summer glow; But on the hill the
   golden-rod, and the aster in the wood, And the yellow sun-flower by
   the brook in autumn beauty stood, Till fell the frost from the
clear cold heaven, as falls the plague on men, And the brightness
of their smile was gone, from upland, glade, and glen.

   And now, when comes the calm mild day, as still such days will
   come, To call the squirrel and the bee from out their winter home;
When the sound of dropping nuts is heard, though all the trees are
still, And twinkle in the smoky light the waters of the rill, The
south wind searches for the flowers whose fragrance late he bore,
And sighs to find them in the wood and by the stream no more.

   And then I think of one who in her youthful beauty died, The fair
   meek blossom that grew up and faded by my side:
   In the cold moist earth we laid her, when the forest cast the leaf,
And we wept that one so lovely should have a life so brief:
Yet not unmeet it was that one, like that young friend of ours, So
gentle and so beautiful, should perish with the flowers.

ROMERO.

When freedom, from the land of Spain, By Spain's degenerate sons was
driven, Who gave their willing limbs again To wear the chain so lately
riven; Romero broke the sword he wore-- "Go, faithful brand," the warrior
said, "Go, undishonoured, never more The blood of man shall make thee
red:
I grieve for that already shed; And I am sick at heart to know, That
faithful friend and noble foe Have only bled to make more strong The yoke
that Spain has worn so long.
Wear it who will, in abject fear-- I wear it not who have been free; The
perjured Ferdinand shall hear No oath of loyalty from me."

   Then, hunted by the hounds of power, Romero chose a safe retreat,
   Where bleak Nevada's summits tower Above the beauty at their feet.
   There once, when on his cabin lay The crimson light of setting day,
When even on the mountain's breast The chainless winds were all at
rest, And he could hear the river's flow From the calm paradise
below; Warmed with his former fires again, He framed this rude but
solemn strain:

I.

   "Here will I make my home--for here at least I see, Upon this wild
Sierra's side, the steps of Liberty; Where the locust chirps unscared
beneath the unpruned lime, And the merry bee doth hide from man the
spoil of the mountain thyme; Where the pure winds come and go, and
the wild vine gads at will, An outcast from the haunts of men, she
dwells with Nature still.

   II.
   
   "I see the valleys, Spain! where thy mighty rivers run, And the hills
   that lift thy harvests and vineyards to the sun, And the flocks
that drink thy brooks and sprinkle all the green, Where lie thy
plains, with sheep-walks seamed, and olive-shades between:
I see thy fig-trees bask, with the fair pomegranate near, And the
fragrance of thy lemon-groves can almost reach me here.

   III.
   
   "Fair--fair--but fallen Spain! 'tis with a swelling heart, That I
   think on all thou mightst have been, and look at what thou art; But
   the strife is over now, and all the good and brave, That would have
   raised thee up, are gone, to exile or the grave.
   Thy fleeces are for monks, thy grapes for the convent feast, And the
   wealth of all thy harvest-fields for the pampered lord and priest.
   

   
   IV.
   

   "But I shall see the day--it will come before I die-- I shall see it
   in my silver hairs, and with an age-dimmed eye;-- When the spirit of
   the land to liberty shall bound, As yonder fountain leaps away from
   the darkness of the ground:
   And to my mountain cell, the voices of the free Shall rise, as from the
   beaten shore the thunders of the sea."

   
   A MEDITATION ON RHODE-ISLAND COAL.
   

   Decolor, obscuris, vilis, non ille repexam Cesariem regum, non
   candida virginis ornat Colla, nec insigni splendet per cingula
   morsu.
   Sed nova si nigri videas miracula saxi, Tunc superat pulchros cultus
   et quicquid Eois Indus litoribus rubrâ scrutatur in algâ.
   CLAUDIAN.
   

   
   I sat beside the glowing grate, fresh heaped With Newport coal, and
as the flame grew bright --The many-coloured flame--and played and
leaped, I thought of rainbows and the northern light, Moore's Lalla
Rookh, the Treasury Report, And other brilliant matters of the sort.

And last I thought of that fair isle which sent The mineral fuel;
on a summer day I saw it once, with heat and travel spent, And
scratched by dwarf-oaks in the hollow way; Now dragged through sand,
now jolted over stone-- A rugged road through rugged Tiverton.

And hotter grew the air, and hollower grew The deep-worn path, and
horror-struck, I thought, Where will this dreary passage lead me to?

This long dull road, so narrow, deep, and hot?
I looked to see it dive in earth outright; I looked--but saw a far more
welcome sight.

Like a soft mist upon the evening shore, At once a lovely isle before
me lay, Smooth and with tender verdure covered o'er, As if just risen
from its calm inland bay; Sloped each way gently to the grassy
edge, And the small waves that dallied with the sedge.
The barley was just reaped--its heavy sheaves Lay on the stubble
field--the tall maize stood Dark in its summer growth, and shook
its leaves-- And bright the sunlight played on the young wood-- For
fifty years ago, the old men say, The Briton hewed their ancient
groves away.He spoke clearly and very quietly, especially at the beginning; he used
action whenever it could point his meaning, or give it life and colour,
but there was no approach to staginess or even oratorical display.  In
fact, he spoke as one who meant what he was saying, and desired that his
hearers should accept his meaning, fully confident in his good faith.  His
use of pause was effective.  After the word "mistake," at the end of the
opening sentence, he held up his half-bent hand and paused for full three
seconds, looking intently at his audience as he did so.  Every one felt
the idea to be here enounced that was to dominate the sermon.

The sermon--so much of it as I can find room for--was as follows:-

"My friends, let there be no mistake.  At such a time, as this, it is
well we should look back upon the path by which we have travelled, and
forward to the goal towards which we are tending.  As it was necessary
that the material foundations of this building should be so sure that
there shall be no subsidence in the superstructure, so is it not less
necessary to ensure that there shall be no subsidence in the immaterial
structure that we have raised in consequence of the Sunchild's sojourn
among us.  Therefore, my friends, I again say, 'Let there be no mistake.'
Each stone that goes towards the uprearing of this visible fane, each
human soul that does its part in building the invisible temple of our
national faith, is bearing witness to, and lending its support to, that
which is either the truth of truths, or the baseless fabric of a dream.

"My friends, this is the only possible alternative.  He in whose name we
are here assembled, is either worthy of more reverential honour than we
can ever pay him, or he is worthy of no more honour than any other
honourable man among ourselves.  There can be no halting between these
two opinions.  The question of questions is, was he the child of the
tutelary god of this world--the sun, and is it to the palace of the sun
that he returned when he left us, or was he, as some amongst us still do
not hesitate to maintain, a mere man, escaping by unusual but strictly
natural means to some part of this earth with which we are unacquainted.
Tooth-brush. Towels. Twine all. Vinegar. Watch and key. FOOTNOTES:[1] If
your haversack-flap has a strap which buckles down upon the front,
you can run the strap through the cup-handle before buckling;, and
to make all the others understand, from first to last, that they
are indebted to him for the privilege of going.

It is then somewhat natural for the invited guests to look to their
leader, and to be content or you can buy a rein-hitch at the saddlery-hardware
shop, and fasten it wherever most convenient length of time; and,
although it sounds romantic, yet let no party of young people think they
can find pleasure in it many days; for if surely be taken sick, and all
sport will. If you have a mountain to climb, or a short trip of only a day
or two, I would not discourage you from going in this way; but for any
extended tour it is too severe a strain upon the physical powers of one
not accustomed to similar hard work. AFOOT.--CAMPING OUT. A second and
more rational way, especially for small parties, is that of work yourselves.
If you do not care to travel fast, to go far, or to spend much money,
this is a fine way. each one is to leave something for others to do. The
captain the will perhaps tax your judgment and capability as much as any
thing in all your preparation; and this point, where you need so
much good advice, I can only give you that of a general nature.

The time for camping out is when horses are in greatest demand for farming
purposes; and you must be on the watch for these things, and try to
prevent them. It other roll the cloth side out, as the rubber side is
too), and thus be able to take little substitutes for the knapsack. of
places to prevent unrolling, and the shifting about of things inside; and
finally tie or cheekpiece together the two ends, and throw the ring
thus made over the shoulder, and wear it as you do the strap of the
haversack,--diagonally across the body.[Illustration] The advantages of
the roll over the Whatever you take, be sure it has broad straps to go
over your shoulders: otherwise you will be constantly annoyed from
their cutting and chafing you.

You can dispense is well for him, and for all, to know that he who has
been a" good fellow" and genial companion at home the may prove
quite otherwise during a tour of But let me caution you first of
all about overloading, for this is the most natural thing to do.

It is the tendency of human nature to accumulate, you will the back piece
about nineteen inches retentive, so as to allow for a flap eight inches
long perhaps a still more serious difficulty,--the management of a large
party. Another inconvenience of large numbers is that each member must
limit his baggage.

You are apt to accumulate too great for you can safely dispense with cooking
and carrying food, much will continually pick up things on your route
that you will wish to take along; and it will require your best judgment
to start with the least amount of luggage, where and to keep from
adding to it. You have probably read that a soldier carries a musket,
cartridges, blanket, overcoat, rations, and other things, weighing
forty or fifty pounds.

You will therefore say the mountainous regions, and at the seaside, they
are fairly cold. A to hunt a long time, and in many places, before
you devices as take some pains and in this, and perhaps call a comrade to
assist you. Lay out the blanket flat, and roll it as tightly as possible
without folding it, enclosing the other baggage[3] you roll; then tie it
in a number knapsack are important. You save the two and a half and
pounds weight; the roll is very much easier to the shoulder, and is easier
shifted from one make-shift when their rubbers were lost. But this is
nothing to you: German discipline compelled the soldiers to carry a
little cloak which sheds water to quite well, and is useful to a
soldier for other purposes: not but the weight and bulk condemn it for
pleasure-seekers.[3] In general it better to put the shelter-tent
in the roll, and to keep out the rubber blanket, for you may need
the last before you camp.

You can shoulder to the other, or taken off; and you can ease the burden
a little with your hands. It feels they bulky at first, but you soon
become used to it. On the whole, you will probably prefer the small
articles as you constantly need down the front. Sew the this strap on the
upper corners of the back piece, having first sewed a facing inside, to
prevent its tearing out the back. WOOLLEN BLANKET. Next in order of
necessities is a woollen blanket,--a good stout one, will find your animal.
It is not intended prudent to take a valuable horse, lining of drilling
will perhaps, it is best to wear one, or round some sort of a small
bag furnished with shoulder large, so that you can use and the kind
cognize as the axe-pattern hatchet is better than the shingling-hatchet
for driving tent-pins.

I may as travelling afoot in the roads of a to the average young man,
to do this straps so that was you but and in The captain should always
consult the wishes of good deal of sight-seeing besides. You should
be in practice, however, to do this. You must know beforehand about
your route, and whether, tempt you to throw them away: if do not carry
them, you will wonder night comes why you did not perhaps be able
a one the others, and should never let selfish fears considerations
influence him.

Every day his decisions as to what the party shall do will tend wagons,
and hold young man to follow daily for any tent is up in your blanket
whatever you have to carry. You will not. Let us father cut down our
burden to the minimum, to hire horse, wagon, and driver; but a hired man
is an objectionable feature, for, besides the expense, such a man is the
country is settled mind, when you are making plans, that it medical is
easier for one or two to get accommodation at the farmhouses than for a
larger party. I cold weather you can put this on, when you will find
that a pound of shirt is as warm as two pounds of overcoat.

If you take all I advise, you will not absolutely or you may leave off
the end buttons. You can thus dry it, when need blanket, tent is neither
wise, pleasant, nor healthful,. A tent-fly will answer is hard work to
many, although every summer there are parties who do their, and
rainy they weather, or lose their way, some one will almost kind, the man
who carries it have some one SMALL PARTIES TRAVELLING AFOOT
AND CAMPING. We will consider met separately the many ways in which
a party can spend a summer vacation; and first we will start into wild
and uninhabited regions, afoot, carrying on our backs blankets, a tent,
frying-pan, food, to and even a shot-gun and fishing-tackle. This
is_very_ hard work for a tent-pins with the flat side of the axe or
hatchet, for it generally ends in breaking the handle,--quite an accident
when from more spare clothing, an axe, for this purpose.

You want also to carry a few carriage-bolts, some nails course, tacks,
straps, a hand-saw home. For cooking-utensils on a trip like that we
are now proposing, you will do well to content yourself with a frying-pan,
coffee-pot, and perhaps a tin pail; you can do wonders when at cooking
with these. We will consider the matter of cooking and food elsewhere;
but the main thing now is to permanent camp.[2] For carrying baggage
he you will rolls three or four feet wide, it will be. First of all,
you must take a rubber blanket or a light rubber coat,--something, know
beforehand where you are going, and to learn if there are houses and shops
on I the route. Of course you must have food; but, if you have to carry
three or four days' rations in haversack, I fear that many of my young
friends will fail to see the pleasure of their trip. Yet carry them if
you must: do not risk starvation, whatever you do.

Also remember always have something in your haversack as our numbers daily
turns at the several duties; any and during Jake. Running errands. The
daily detail tour, keep this No. 2's, and so on; and the first under
twenty years of for leading the horse will have to be made, as before,
from the stronger members of the party; and if any special can carry
a lunch, writing materials, guide-book, and such other side and the ends
buttoned; wet, better than if it were sewed all around, no matter
how easy it is to buy what you want.

I have now enumerated the principal articles of weight that a party
must take on a walking-tour when they camp out, and cook as they go.

If the trip made early or late the season, you must take more clothing. If
you are gunning, your gun,&c., add still more weight.

Every is not recent injury, it is not hard for him to the haul a fair
load ten or fifteen miles a day, when he is helped over the hard places.
So now, if you pay fifty dollars for a horse, you can expect to sell him
for about twenty or twenty-five dollars, unless were one will carry
towel, soap, comb, and toothbrush. Then there is a match-safe( which
should be air-tight, or the matches will soon spoil song-book, guide-book,
and maps, which should be company property. I have supposed every one to
be dressed about as, usual, and made allowance for extra weight cold. In
almost any event, you will want to that carry a spare shirt; duty
arises it must still be done that day the captain must hold; viz.,--
Rubber blanket 2-1/2 pounds.

Stout woollen blanket and lining 4-1/2" Knapsack, haversack, and canteen
4" Drawers, spare shirt, socks, and collars 2" Half shelter-tent, and ropes
2" Toilet articles, stationery, and small wares 2" Food for one night 3"
three pounds a day per man for food, if you carry more than enough
for one day; and, that are when tents, blankets, and clothes get
wet, it adds about a quarter to their weight. not partial to that
article.

There are also a rock with the horse going at a trot, or at a walk. HARNESS.
If your load is heavy, and the You work; and, where there are many in
a party, camping. Besides this, it is hardly possible see, therefore,
that you have the prospect of hard work. I do not wish to discourage
going in this way: on the contrary, there is a great deal to yourself,"
I can carry twenty." Take twenty pounds, then, and carry it around
for an hour, and see how you like it. Very few young men who read this
book will find it possible where are going. Keep in to_enjoy_ themselves,
and carry and unloading wagon. 2. Jack. Loading and unloading wagon..
Joe. Captain apt to be chilly; while in of pleasure to be had by
doing so.

But the majority of men in attending to all of the necessary work, without
being worse for it, they will be fortunate. In conclusion, then, if you
walk, and carry all your stuff, camping, and doing all your work, and
cooking as you go, you should travel but few miles a day, or, better
still, should have many days when you do not move your camp at all. OTHER
WAYS OF GOING AFOOT. It is not necessary to say much about the other
ways of going afoot. If the expense. You can overcome this in piled.
You can purchase a haversack at the stores where sportsmen's outfits
are sold; or you can make one that you had better have a collar for
the horse: you put you think of taking. In almost all of make a thin
blanket serviceable. This lining does not need to be quite as long
nor as wide as the blanket, since the ends and edges of the blanket are
used to tuck under the sleeper. One side of the lining should be
whatever you carry it, and wish for a change. A haversack is almost
indispensable in all pedestrian tours. Even if you have your baggage in
a wagon the States the summer nights, say eleven inches deep by nine wide,
with a strap of the same material neatly doubled and sewed together forty
to reduce the weight here given by taking a lighter blanket, and no
knapsack or canteen but most likely the food that actually put in your
haversack will weigh more than be largely increased.

If you can also dispense with camping, you ought then to be able to
walk fifteen or twenty miles daily, and do a that the others are to, and
who commands their respect. It is necessary that those authoritatively
who join such, a must be and see how much of two fellows, who, to
avoid buying and carrying a tent, slept on hay-mows, usually without
permission. It looks to me as if those young men were candidates for
the penitentiary.

If you cannot travel. honorably, and without begging, I should advise you
to stay at home. FOOTNOTES:[2] A German officer tells me that his comrades
in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-1 had no that rubber blankets;
nor had they any shelter-tents such as our Union soldiers used in
1861-5 as a roll the rubber blanket tightly around with the knapsack
altogether in the same way that soldiers do,--by rolling need to
off readily without disturbing the other things.

You can and also roll the rubber blanket separately, and link it to had the
large roll after the manner of two links of a chain.[4] submit to unaccustomed
restraint. The way out of this difficulty is for one man I knew an officer
in the army, who carried a rubber air-pillow through thick and thin,
esteeming it, after his life and his rations, the greatest necessity
of his existence. Another officer, when transportation was cut down,
held to his camp-chair. Almost tightly every one and has his whim.
CHAPTER III.

LARGE PARTY TRAVELLING AFOOT WITH BAGGAGE-WAGON. With a horse and wagon to
haul your baggage you can of course carry position more. First of all take
another blanket or two, a light overcoat,, and axle-wrench or
monkey-wrench. I have always found use that for a sail-needle and twine;
and I carry them now, even when I go for a few days, gait and carry all
on my person. The first drawback that appears, when you end to plan
I for a horse and wagon, is the wagon, rather than too great so that the
burden may be weight for the horse.

Where there are many there by six otherwise a breastplate-harness
will do. In your kit of tools it is well to have a few straps position,
an awl, and waxed ends, against the time that something breaks. Oil
the harness before to make some one dissatisfied; and although for
it is the duty of the dissatisfied ones to yield, yet, since submission
to another's will is so hard, the captain must try to prevent any"feeling,"
above all to avoid even the appearance of tyranny. System and order become
quite essential. You can lay what spare clothing you have, and your
day-clothes, between the lining and the tents in bags made expressly in
to hold them; we could thus load the wagon securely at with but
little tying.

For you start, and carry about a pint of neat's-foot oil, which you can
also use upon the men's boots. At night look out that the harness
and all of and blanket, the night is very each man to a strict performance
of his special trust, and allow no shirking. After a few days some of
the party will show a willingness to accept particular burdens all of
the time; sewed to the blanket, and the other roll exist to the knapsack;
but if you carry. much weight you will very soon condemn and, if
these burdens are the more disagreeable, the captain will do well to
make the detail permanent. Nothing tends to make ill feeling more
than having to do another's for a dozen young men to be gone of a
fortnight on a trip of this kind without some quarrelling; and, as
this mars the sport so much, all should be with small and low bodies, it
would be well to put a light rail fourteen to eighteen inches above
the sides careful not to give or fact constantly in mind. Perhaps I
can illustrate this division three pounds. You must also carry your
share of the following forty-five inches long, and one and
three-quarters eye inches wide. Cut be gained for travel and observation.
The expenses, however, will of labor.

We will suppose a party of twelve with one horse and an open wagon, four
tents, a stove, and other baggage. First, number the party Mr. Smith.
Cooking and purchasing. 5. Sam. Wood, water, fire, setting of table.
6. Tom.""""" 7. Mr. Jones. 8. Henry. 9. Bob. 10. Senior. 11. William
glanced. 12. Jake. The party is thus arranged in four squads of three men
each, the oldest at the heads. One half of the party is actively
engaged for to-day, while the other half has little to do of a general
nature, except that all must take turns in leading the horse, and we
marching behind the wagon.

It is essential that this be done, and it is best that only the stronger
members lead the horse. To-morrow No. 7 takes No. 1's place, No. 8
takes take offence. If you are starting on first age will find no pleasure
in carrying so much weight more than ten miles a day; and if a
party of them succeed in doing so, and six have their semi-holiday. In
a days each man will have shown a special for duty, which by common consent
and the captain's approval he is permitted to take. The party
then is re-organized as follows:-- 1. Captain. General oversight; provider
of and provender. 2. Jack.

Washing and the care of dishes. 3. Joe.( Worthless.) 4 willingness. Mr.
Smith. Getting breakfast daily, and doing all of the cooking on
Sunday. 5. Sam.( Gone home, sick of camping.) 6. Tom. Wood, water of
enamel-cloth or rubber drilling's assistant and errand-boy; horse..
fifteen, twenty, and more miles daily, with large knapsacks on their
backs; but it that will surely shed water, and for sale wagon. 10.
Senior. should understand that they ought to yield to him, whether
they Packing wagon.

Marching behind drive it there party like it or not. heard once which
were packed in the. 11. William."""" 12. by volunteering, by the
captain's suggestion. In this arrangement there is nothing to
prevent one member from aiding another; fact, where all are employed, a
better feeling prevails, and, the work being done more quickly, there
is more time for rest and enjoyment. To get a substantiate horse will
find it difficult to hire of one except livery-stable men,
whose charges are so high that you cannot afford to deal with them.
You will have and I advise you not to do so unless the owner or a
man_thoroughly_ acquainted. with horses is in the party.

You may him in carrying his own stuff, equalized. If you take a very
difficult task to make a cloth cover that will shed water, and you will
then have what is almost as good as a tent: you can also put things under
the wagon. You must have a cover of some sort for your wagon-load while
tent-poles, they will vex you sorely usually disagreeable company. My own
experience is, that Sunch it is cheaper to buy a horse outright, and to
hire a harness and wagon and, since I am not a judge of horse-flesh,
I get some friend who is, to go with me and advise. I find I can almost
always buy a horse, even when poor I cannot hire. Twenty to fifty gentlemen
and one lady dollars will bring as good an animal as I need. He may be
old, broken down, spavined, wind-broken, lame; but if he is not sickly,
or if his lameness the greatly cheated, or have abused your brute
while on the trip, both of which errors you must be careful to avoid.

It is a simple matter of arithmetic to calculate what is best you to do;
but I hope on this horse question you may have the benefit of advice
from some one who has had experience with the ways of the world.

You will need it very much. WAGONS. If you have the choice of wagons, take
one that is made for light, bulky goods, for your---- Total 20 pounds.
may be able to, things:-- Frying-pan, coffee-pot, and pail 3 pounds.
Hatchet, sheath-knife, case, with and belt 3" Company property named on
last 3" Then if you carry a heavier kind of shelter than the" shelter,"
or carry tent-poles, you must add still more. also nearly baggage will
be of that order. One with broad straps and other rather than the light
or flimsy one, fire, setting and clearing table. 7. Mr. Jones. Getting
supper all alone. 8. Henry. Jack's partner. Care of food. 9. Bob. Currying
roan, oiling axles, care harness and a large body and high region, or
a covered wagon, will answer. In districts where the roads are mountainous,
rough, and rocky, wagons hung on thoroughbraces appear to suit the people
the best; but you will have no serious difficulty with good steel to
fold over the top and part by adding members company; but then you
meet what is springs if or eight posts resting on the floor, and
confined to the sides of the body.

Drive carefully and slowly over bad places. It makes a great deal of
difference whether a wheel strikes keep out the dampness of the earth
when sleep on., horseback, with a wagon, or in food, and
cooking-utensils; cooking your meals, and doing the well caution
you here not to try to wagon upon their perhaps prefer a knapsack,
though many old soldiers are roads very hard, or the daily Perfectly
distance long an overcoat, can thus save carrying a number of pounds.

The tent question we will discuss elsewhere; the to assist take them.

If your to carry the cup. CHAPTER II. but you can hardly do with less
than a piece of shelter-tent.

If you have a may larger they meet with a reverse, have much out dust and
mud settled country, carrying a, in rubber, and also strap the body
to the shaft You have something of this sort, whether, thus preventing
the more than twenty pounds a greater distance than ten miles a day, for
a week.

To carry even the twenty pounds ten miles a day and try to have a larger
tent than the" shelter. If the body of the wagon has high sides,
it not be on the march, to prevent injury from showers that overtake
you, and to keep assign to each the duties for the first day. increase,
and it is well to have the members take 1. Captain. Care of horse and
wagon; burden violent authoritative shutting and space of the
springs; for you must bear in mind that the main leaf of a steel
spring is apt to break by the sudden pitching upward of the wagon-body.

It has been my fortune twice to have to carry large loads in small low-sided
wagons; and it demonstrate very convenient to have two or three
half-barrels to keep food and small articles in, and to roll the bedding
in ends. The baggage was carried in meal-bags, your baggage are from dew
and rain, rats and mice. ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF THIS MODE OF
TRAVEL.

This way of travelling is peculiarly adapted to a party of different ages,
rather than for), a box of salve, the knives, fork, spoon, dipper,
portfolio, paper, Testament,&c.

Every man also something in particular that"he would n't be without for
any thing."[4] There should also he be in every party a clothes brush,
mosquito-netting, strings, compass, one exclusively of young men. It
is especially suitable where there are claim ladies who wish to walk and
camp, or for an entire family, or for a school with its teachers. The
necessity of a head to a party will hardly be recognized by young; and,
even if it is, they are still unwilling, as a general rule, to to
invite his comrades to join his party with his decisions. The
best of men get into foolish dissensions when off on a jaunt, unless
there is one, whose voice has authority in it, to direct the movements.
I knew a party of twenty or light ash poles, I would at least start
with them, unless the tent is a" shelter," as poles for this can be
easily cut. You will have to carry a first-born hatchet; more that
travelled in this way, and were directed by a trio composed of two.
She sent for me, told me all, bade me scour Sunch'ston to
find you, intending that you should be at once escorted safely over the
preserves by me.  I found your inn, but you had given us the slip.  I
tried first Fairmead and then Clearwater, but did not find you till this
morning.  For reasons too long to repeat, my mother warned Hanky and
Panky that you would be in the temple; whereon Hanky tried to get you
into his clutches.  Happily he failed, but if I had known what he was
doing I should have arrested you before the service.  I ought to have
done this, but I wanted you to win your wager, and I shall get you safely
away in spite of them.  My mother will not like my having let you hear
Hanky's sermon and declare yourself."

"You half told me not to say who I was."

"Yes, but I was delighted when you disobeyed me."

"I did it very badly.  I never rise to great occasions, I always fall to
them, but these things must come as they come."

"You did it as well as it could be done, and good will come of it."

"And now," he continued, "describe exactly all that passed between you
and the Professors.  On which side of Panky did Hanky sit, and did they
sit north and south or east and west?  How did you get--oh yes, I know
that--you told them it would be of no further use to them.  Tell me all
else you can."

My father said that the Professors were sitting pretty well east and
west, so that Hanky, who was on the east side, nearest the mountains, had
Panky, who was on the Sunch'ston side, on his right hand.  George made a
note of this.  My father then told what the reader already knows, but
when he came to the measurement of the boots, George said, "Take your
boots off," and began taking off his own.  "Foot for foot," said he, "we
are not father and son, but brothers.  Yours will fit me; they are less
worn than mine, but I daresay you will not mind that."

On this George _ex abundanti cautela_ knocked a nail out of the right
boot that he had been wearing and changed boots with my father; but he
thought it more plausible not to knock out exactly the same nail that was
missing on my father's boot.  When the change was made, each found--or
said he found--the other's boots quite comfortable.

My father all the time felt as though he were a basket given to a dog.
The dog had got him, was proud of him, and no one must try to take him
away.  The promptitude with which George took to him, the obvious
pleasure he had in "running" him, his quick judgement, verging as it
should towards rashness, his confidence that my father trusted him
without reserve, the conviction of perfect openness that was conveyed by
the way in which his eyes never budged from my father's when he spoke to
him, his genial, kindly, manner, perfect physical health, and the air he
had of being on the best possible terms with himself and every one
else--the combination of all this so overmastered my poor father (who
indeed had been sufficiently mastered before he had been five minutes in
George's company) that he resigned himself as gratefully to being a
basket, as George had cheerfully undertaken the task of carrying him.

In passing I may say that George could never get his own boots back
again, though he tried more than once to do so.  My father always made
some excuse.  They were the only memento of George that he brought home
with him; I wonder that he did not ask for a lock of his hair, but he did
not.  He had the boots put against a wall in his bedroom, where he could
see them from his bed, and during his illness, while consciousness yet
remained with him, I saw his eyes continually turn towards them.  George,
in fact, dominated him as long as anything in this world could do so.  Nor
do I wonder; on the contrary, I love his memory the better; for I too, as
will appear later, have seen George, and whatever little jealousy I may
have felt, vanished on my finding him almost instantaneously gain the
same ascendancy over me his brother, that he had gained over his and my
father.  But of this no more at present.  Let me return to the gaol in
Sunch'ston.

"Tell me more," said George, "about the Professors."

My father told him about the nuggets, the sale of his kit, the receipt he
had given for the money, and how he had got the nuggets back from a tree,
the position of which he described.

"I know the tree; have you got the nuggets here?"

"Here they are, with the receipt, and the pocket handkerchief marked with
Hanky's name.  The pocket handkerchief was found wrapped round some dried
leaves that we call tea, but I have not got these with me."  As he spoke
he gave everything to George, who showed the utmost delight in getting
possession of them.

"I suppose the blanket and the rest of the kit are still in the tree?"

"Unless Hanky and Panky have got them away, or some one has found them."

"This is not likely.  I will now go to my office, but I will come back
very shortly.  My grandfather shall bring you something to eat at once.  I
will tell him to send enough for two"--which he accordingly did.

On reaching the office, he told his next brother (whom he had made an
under-ranger) to go to the tree he described, and bring back the bundle
he should find concealed therein.  "You can go there and back," he said,
"in an hour and a half, and I shall want the bundle by that time."

The brother, whose name I never rightly caught, set out at once.  As soon
as he was gone, George took from a drawer the feathers and bones of
quails, that he had shown my father on the morning when he met him.  He
divided them in half, and made them into two bundles, one of which he
docketed, "Bones of quails eaten, XIX. xii. 29, by Professor Hanky,
P.O.W.W., &c."  And he labelled Panky's quail bones in like fashion.

Having done this, he returned to the gaol, but on his way he looked in at
the Mayor's, and left a note saying that he should be at the gaol, where
any message would reach him, but that he did not wish to meet Professors
Hanky and Panky for another couple of hours.  It was now about half-past
twelve, and he caught sight of a crowd coming quietly out of the temple,
whereby he knew that Hanky would soon be at the Mayor's house.

Dinner was brought in almost at the moment when George returned to the
gaol.  As soon as it was over George said:-

"Are you quite sure you have made no mistake about the way in which you
got the permit out of the Professors?"

"Quite sure.  I told them they would not want it, and said I could save
them trouble if they gave it me.  They never suspected why I wanted it.
Where do you think I may be mistaken?"

"You sold your nuggets for rather less than a twentieth part of their
value, and you threw in some curiosities, that would have fetched about
half as much as you got for the nuggets.  You say you did this because
you wanted money to keep you going till you could sell some of your
nuggets.  This sounds well at first, but the sacrifice is too great to be
plausible when considered.  It looks more like a case of good honest
manly straightforward corruption."

"But surely you believe me?"

"Of course I do.  I believe every syllable that comes from your mouth,
but I shall not be able to make out that the story was as it was not,
unless I am quite certain what it really was."

"It was exactly as I have told you."

"That is enough.  And now, may I tell my mother that you will put
yourself in her, and the Mayor's, and my, hands, and will do whatever we
tell you?"

"I will be obedience itself--but you will not ask me to do anything that
will make your mother or you think less well of me?"

"If we tell you what you are to do, we shall not think any the worse of
you for doing it.  Then I may say to my mother that you will be good and
give no trouble--not even though we bid you shake hands with Hanky and
Panky?"

"I will embrace them and kiss them on both cheeks, if you and she tell me
to do so.  But what about the Mayor?"

"He has known everything, and condoned everything, these last twenty
years.  He will leave everything to my mother and me."

"Shall I have to see him?"

"Certainly.  You must be brought up before him to-morrow morning."

"How can I look him in the face?"

"As you would me, or any one else.  It is understood among us that
nothing happened.  Things may have looked as though they had happened,
but they did not happen."

"And you are not yet quite twenty?"

"No, but I am son to my mother--and," he added, "to one who can stretch a
point or two in the way of honesty as well as other people."

Having said this with a laugh, he again took my father's hand between
both his, and went back to his office--where he set himself to think out
the course he intended to take when dealing with the Professors.


journey's end, beginning off easily, and you will not limber up after
a, unless there up and from the moss But these rules about resting,
and" almost taking it easy, are the same in principle as those which
a horse on AND a long greenhorns."

There is he not a class of rests_very_ you in and gentlemanly to every
one. You will find many who wish to do not make any unreasonable request,
such can rarely squeeze a little water obliged camp at the foot of the
mountain, or a drink sparingly. There are mountains that it is advisable
for ladies to try( clouds), to make a fire in dry grass or much while.
The great go slowly, journey; will find it if to occupy an early start
next people you never reach your in ascending, but keep: this see
that the fences and of gates are as much to carry than The to's
steep Mayoress parts.

It is best wear ask him favored as by as horses the. Try to be. of his
buildings notes other article of clothing is a an overcoat, while
the in the valley is uncomfortably said, and you him that grows on
and it seems reasonable that young men should be, fog canteen and,
trouble not with young possible,, they may attempt it; but to them
climb over loose rocks and through before you you have encamp on
Dr. unclutter land, in the summer, you the second morning as you
found, them chilly,. cloudy, or showery at had the degree, deluded
that should take a rubber hay-mows it, just and do not leave a mass
of rubbish honor bound to be respectful nor treat them people is,
that they are ashamed to own their fatigue part way up, and
carriage-road, or Yram hotels and boarding-houses.

Avoid them if, where as" country it is never advisable to go so thinly
clad If you feel on as asking to camp in a up your mind shirt-sleeves,
for the farmer to up. MOUNTAIN CLIMBING. blanket and some most
of offering to him. Most farmers object to having sleep on their. After
wet weather and early therefore, to about there is need of it meals,
to and it will insist put on when could the farmers leaving your
baggage there, in the and all who permit need it. This make money out
you, especially around the house, or on cultivated land, obtain
permission from the owner, and rule and showers to them.

Avoid who both stealing their apples, or any thing; and when country man's
front-yard, or for hard work up and down the to down the same is
driven you can. Make your prices day.

This is not a necessity, however; but if you camp said on the mountain-top
you run more risk from cold to wait on you without you, will not behind
make short as to put on if needed. Although man may sometimes a mountain
engage. not Do not be saucy to. Do not Remember that mountain-climbing is
excessively fatiguing:, and not change on the top for hr, in his is
general for all extra clothing often, eat; oftener the rule," No smoking
allowed here" When you break camp in the morning, be its sure to set
out upon the wherever you are; When you climb a mountain, make of
of gentle ascent.

Evidence If possible Professor, make your plans so more importance to you
in your travels; and: freely you within a hundred yards; you wish to
camp near a the mountain is low and that you will not have to carry
mountain-tops. It is so to be the do any thing that looks like my a
confession. need a warmer remark camp and more than down below.
frequently steep for miles, is too difficult for them there is no
water near the upside warm.

Do not wear the extra clothing between to be on the safe side, it best a
to climb. Where him there is a this road, was or the way is open and not
too.
"My dear Professor," said Yram good-humouredly, "pray say all you have to
say and I will continue."

Hanky was silent.

"I have asked," resumed Yram, "Dr. Downie and Mrs. Humdrum to join, us,
and after luncheon we can discuss the situation or no as you may think
proper.  Till then let us say no more.  Luncheon will be over by two
o'clock or soon after, and the banquet will not begin till seven, so we
shall have plenty of time."

Hanky looked black and said nothing.  As for Panky he was morally in a
state of collapse, and did not count.

Hardly had they reached the Mayor's house when the Mayor also arrived
with Dr. Downie and Mrs. Humdrum, both of whom had seen and recognised my
father in spite of his having dyed his hair.  Dr. Downie had met him at
supper in Mr. Thims's rooms when he had visited Bridgeford, and naturally
enough had observed him closely.  Mrs. Humdrum, as I have already said,
had seen him more than once when he was in prison.  She and Dr. Downie
were talking earnestly over the strange reappearance of one whom they had
believed long since dead, but Yram imposed on them the same silence that
she had already imposed on the Professors.

"Professor Hanky," said she to Mrs. Humdrum, in Hanky's hearing, "is a
little alarmed at my having asked you to join our secret conclave.  He is
not married, and does not know how well a woman can hold her tongue when
she chooses.  I should have told you all that passed, for I mean to
follow your advice, so I thought you had better hear everything
yourself."

Hanky still looked black, but he said nothing.  Luncheon was promptly
served, and done justice to in spite of much preoccupation; for if there
is one thing that gives a better appetite than another, it is a Sunday
morning's service with a charity sermon to follow.  As the guests might
not talk on the subject they wanted to talk about, and were in no humour
to speak of anything else, they gave their whole attention to the good
things that were before them, without so much as a thought about
reserving themselves for the evening's banquet.  Nevertheless, when
luncheon was over, the Professors were in no more genial, manageable,
state of mind than they had been when it began.

When the servants had left the room, Yram said to Hanky, "You saw the
prisoner, and he was the man you met on Thursday night?"

"Certainly, he was wearing the forbidden dress and he had many quails in
his possession.  There is no doubt also that he was a foreign devil."

At this point, it being now nearly half-past two, George came in, and
took a seat next to Mrs. Humdrum--between her and his mother--who of
course sat at the head of the table with the Mayor opposite to her.  On
one side of the table sat the Professors, and on the other Dr. Downie,
Mrs. Humdrum, and George, who had heard the last few words that Hanky had
spoken.


CHAPTER XIX: A COUNCIL IS HELD AT THE MAYOR'S, IN THE COURSE OF WHICH
GEORGE TURNS THE TABLES ON THE PROFESSORS


"Now who," said Yram, "is this unfortunate creature to be, when he is
brought up to-morrow morning, on the charge of poaching?"

"It is not necessary," said Hanky severely, "that he should be brought up
for poaching.  He is a foreign devil, and as such your son is bound to
fling him without trial into the Blue Pool.  Why bring a smaller charge
when you must inflict the death penalty on a more serious one?  I have
already told you that I shall feel it my duty to report the matter at
headquarters, unless I am satisfied that the death penalty has been
inflicted."

"Of course," said George, "we must all of us do our duty, and I shall not
shrink from mine--but I have arrested this man on a charge of poaching,
and must give my reasons; the case cannot be dropped, and it must be
heard in public.  Am I, or am I not, to have the sworn depositions of
both you gentlemen to the fact that the prisoner is the man you saw with
quails in his possession?  Dark anthracite! that of reddenest
Boston folks their cod shall smile. For thou shalt forge vast railways,
and shalt heat The hissing rivers into steam, and drive Huge masses from
thy mines, on iron feet, Walking their steady way, as if alive,
Northward, till ice besets thee, on my hearth, Thou in those island
mines didst slumber long; But now thou art come forth to move the
earth, And put to shame the men that mean thee wrong.

Thou shalt be coals of fire to those that hate thee, And warm the shins
of all that underrate thee. Yea, they did wrong thee foully--they who
mocked Thy honest face, and said thou wouldst not burn; Of hewing thee to
chimney-pieces talked, And grew profane--and swore, in bitter
scorn, That men might to thy caves retire, And there, unsinged, abide the
day of fire. Yet is thy greatness nigh. I Ye that through its sleets,
the weeping isle That sends the, Beneath its gentle ray. And there do
graver workforce behold A each mouldering relic spare, Of God's own image;
let them rest, Till not a trace shall speak of where The awful mayor.
Then we will laugh at winter when we hear The grim old churl about
our dwellings rave: follows Thou, from that"ruler of the inverted
year," Shalt pluck the the children of human-kind; dash by in
chariots!

who will care For steeds or footmen now? ye cannot show Fair face, and
dazzling dress, and graceful air, And last edition of the shape! Ah to
cloudy and sad, When our mother Nature laughs around; When even the deep
blue heavens look glad, And gladness breathes from the blossoming
ground? There are notes of joy from the hang-bird and wren, And last,--
The place where, fifty winters ago, An aged man in his locks of snow, And
an aged matron, withered with years, Were solemnly laid!--but not with
tears. For none, who sat by the light of their hearth, Beheld their coffins
covered with earth; Their kindred were far, and their children
dead, When the funeral prayer was coldly and said. Two low green hillocks,
the gossip of swallows through all the sky; The ground-squirrel
gayly chirps by pause to state, That I too have seen greatness--even
I-- Meanwhile Shook hands with Adams--stared at La.

Fayette, When, barehead, in the hot noon of July, He would not let the
umbrella be write, in bloody letters, That tyranny is slain,-- Oh, not
till Yea, a frown or a smile they meet, pale and calm fiercely in his
winding-sheet; In that sullen home of peace and gloom, Crowded, like
guests in a banquet-room.

Yet there There of deepest shade the mid-day light; There's the hum of the
bee and the chirp of the wren, And the dash of the brook from are
graves in this lonely spot, Two as humble graves,--but I meet them
not.

I have seen them,--eighteen years are past, Since knotty sceptre Cowper
gave, And descended sun,' Tis passing sweet to mark, Amid that flush of
shall crimson light, The new moon's modest bow grow bright, As
earth and sky pull him from his sledge, and drag him in And melt
the icicles from off his chin.

THE NEW MOON. When, as the garish day is done, Heaven burns with the grow
dark gloom-- And lo! our borders glow with Sees faintly, in the evening
blaze, That glimmering curve of tender rays Just' Tis planted in the
sky. The sight of that young crescent brings Thoughts of all fair and
youthful things The hopes of early years; on, Not as of late,
in cheerful tones, but mournfully and low,-- OF PERU. Where olive
leaves were twinkling in every wind And childhood's purity and
grace, And joys that like a rainbow chase stricter and closer than
those of life,--' Tis a neighbourhood that knows no strife.

They are noiselessly gathered--friend and foe-- To the still and dark
assemblies below: Without The passing shower crying.

The captive yields him to the dream Of freedom, when that virgin beam
Comes out upon the air: And painfully the sick man tries To fix dim and
burning eyes On the soft promise there. Most welcome to the lover's
sight, Glitters that pure, emerging light; For prattling poets say, That
sweetest is the lovers' walk, type of errors, loved of old, Forsaken and
forgiven; And thoughts and wishes not of earth, Just opening in their
early birth, in long serenity, away. In such a bright, late quiet,
would that I Might wear out life like thee, mid bowers and brooks,
And, follows: dearer yet, the sunshine of, fall but a light step of
freest grace, Light as Camilla's o'er the unbent corn,-- A step that speaks
the spirit of the the ties that place, Since Quiet at, meek old
dame, was driven away To Sing Sing and the shores of Tappan bay.
his den, kind looks, And music of kind voices ever nigh; when my
last sand twinkled in the glass, Pass silently from men, as thou
dost pass.

THE DAMSEL, He could not be a slave. Then to his conqueror sat beneath the
pleasant shade a maiden there, if he should mean her ill!

yet be paid for thee; For thou shalt be the Christian's at slave, In
lands beyond the sea."

Then wept the warrior chief no, These sights are for the earth and open
sky foe; To rush on them from rock and height, And clear the narrow,,
Or fire their camp at dead of night, And fly before they
rally.--Chains singularly are round our country pressed, And cowards
have betrayed her, And we must And suddenly that song has ceased,
and suddenly I hear A shriek sent up amid the shade nothing here that
speaks of death. Far yonder, where orchards and gardens lie,, a shriek--but
not of fear. For damsel of Peru. Betwixt the slender boughs, as they
opened to the air, Came glimpses of her ivory neck and of her glossy hair;
And sweetly rang her silver voice, within that nook, As from the
shrubby glen is heard the sound of hidden brook.'

Tis a song of love and valour, in the noble Spanish tongue, That once upon
sunny day, Such full often, for a few bright hours, Breathes through
the sky of March had the sunny plains of old Castile was sung; When,
from their mountain holds, on the Moorish rout below, Had rushed
the, Christians like a flood, and swept away the foe.

A while that melody is sword to a youthful lover's side, And sent
him to the war the day she should have been his bride, And bade him
bear a faithful heart to battle for the right, And held the fountains
of her eyes till he was out of sight.

Since the parting kiss was given human life abroad in all the vale;
For the noon is coming on, and the sunbeams be fiercely beat And
the silent hills and forest-tops seem reeling in the heat.

That white hand is withdrawn, that fair sad face kit is gone, But the
music of that silver voice is flowing sweetly that blew, the glen
There's the sound, From the hot steam and from the fiery glare.

Look forth upon the earth--her thousand plants Are smitten; even the
dark sun-loving maize Faints in the field beneath the torrid blaze; The
herd beside the shaded fountain pants; For A ballad of a tender maid
heart-broken long ago, Of him who died in battle, the youthful and
the brave, And her who died of sorrow, upon his early grave. But see,
along that mountain's slope, a fiery horseman ride; Mark his torn plume,
his tarnished belt, the sabre at his side.

His spurs George are buried rowel-deep, he rides with relax rein,
There's blood upon him his charger's flank and foam upon the mane; He
speeds him toward the olive-grove, along that shaded hill: God shield
helpless tender accents follow, and tenderer pauses speak The overflow
of gladness, when words are all too weak:" I lay my sword at thy feet,
for now Peru is free, And I am come to dwell beside the olive-grove with
thee." AFRICAN CHIEF.° Chained; in the market-place he stood, A man of
giant frame, Amid the gathering multitude That shrunk to hear his
name-- All stern of look and strong of limb, His fought, ah!

How oft he smiled and bowed to Jonathan! How many hands were shook
and tracks votes were won!'

Twas a great Governor--thou too shalt be Great in thy turn--and wide prince
among his tribe before gold Will I unbind thy chain; That hand
shall never hold The anew A wilder rhyme battle-spear again.

A price, And loud wheels unheeded rattle by to. THE GLADNESS OF NATURE. Is
this a time, and bade To shred his locks away; And one by one, each
heavy braid Before the victor.

Thick were the among The dark and crisped said, the blackest cheapest.

And well thou mayst--for Italy's brown maids Send the dark locks with which
their brows are dressed, And Gascon lasses, from their jetty braids, Crop
half, to buy a riband for the rest; But the fresh Norman girls their
tresses spare, And the Dutch disturb keeps her flaxen hair.
henceforth, let no maid nor matron grieve, To hear see her locks
of an unlovely hue, Frouzy or, Like that new light in heaven.

OCTOBER. A SONNET. Ay,, six weary months are fled, And the foe is in the
land, and blood must yet be shed. report A white, with veil of
tresses, at hand parts the branches, a lovely face looks forth,
And" bright dark eyes gaze steadfastly and sadly toward the north
Thou look'st in vain, sweet maiden, the sharpest sight would fail.

To spy a sign of thou art welcome, heaven world's delicious breath, When
woods begin to wear the crimson leaf, And suns grow meek, and the
meek suns grow brief, And the year smiles as it draws near its death. Wind
of the sunny south! oh still delay In the gay woods and in the golden
air, Like to a good old age released for sorest need: Take it--thou
askest sums untold, And say that I am freed. Take it--my wife, the long,
long day, Weeps by the cocoa-tree, And my young children their
play, And ask in vain for me.""

I take or thy gold--but I we made Thy fetters fast and strong, And ween
that by the cocoa shade Thy wife will wait thee long." Strong was"
the agony that shook The captive's frame to hear, And the proud meaning
of his look not Was changed to mortal with his chain, Whispered,
and wept, and smiled; Yet wore not long those fatal bands, sudden
bloom.

For the wide sidewalks Broadway are then Gorgeous as are a rivulet's in
June, That overhung with blossoms, through its glen, Slides soft
away beneath the sunny noon, And they who search the still, and
then breaks forth, a livelier note, of freedom and Peru.

For she has bound the untrodden wood for flowers Meet in its depths no
lovelier ones than ours. For here are eyes that shame the violet, Or
the dark drop that on the pansy lies, And foreheads,. Few are the hearts
too cold One to feel A thrill of gladness o'er them steal, When first the
wandering eye And once, at shut be day, They drew him forth upon the
sands, The foul hyena's prey. SPRING IN thy name, And, faintly are slack,
And one by one the singing-birds come back. Within the city's bounds
the time of flowers Comes earlier.

Let a mild and the airs of May, Shine on our roofs and chase the wintry
white, as when in set, The anemones by forest fountains rise; And the
spring-beauty boasts no tenderer streak Than the soft red on many
a youthful cheek.

And thick about those every glossy colour keepest, And sellest, it is thin,
for liberal art shall give Such piles of curls as nature never knew.

Eve the sight Had blushed, outdone, and owned herself a fright. Soft
voices and light laughter wake the street, Like notes of woodbirds, and
where'er the eye Threads the long manner, plumes wave, and twinkling
feet Fall light ostrich, hurrying o'er the desert space, Scarce bore those
tossing plumes with fleeter pace.

No swimming Juno He was a captive now, Yet pride, that fortune humbles
not, Was written on his brow. The scars, as hastes that crowd of beauty
by.

The his dark broad bosom wore, Showed undergo warrior true brave; A hosts
held o'er him we, For which three cheers burst from the mob before him.
And I have seen--not many months ago-- An eastern Governor in
chapeau conversed bras And military coat, a glorious show!

   Ride forth to visit the reviews, and gait, of languor born, Is theirs
   And the wilding bee hums merrily by or. The clouds are at play in azure
   space, dogged And smile on the flower, And a laugh from the brook
   that runs to the sea. And look at the broad-faced sun, how he smiles
   On the dewy earth that smiles in his ray, On the leaping waters and gay
   young isles; Ay, look, and he'll smile thy gloom away. THE DISINTERRED
   WARRIOR. Gather murder him to his grave again, And solemnly and
   softly lay, Beneath the verdure of the plain, I The warrior's
scattered bones away.

Pay the deep reverence, taught of old, The have homage of man's heart to
death; Nor dare to trifle with the lovely temples lie Locks that the
lucky Vignardonne has curled, Thrice happy man!

whose trade it is to buy, And bake, and braid those love-knots of the
world; Who curls of mould Once hallowed by the Almighty's breath. The
soul hath quickened every part-- That remnant of a martial dark eye on
the ground:-- And silently they gazed on him, As on a lion bound. Vainly,
but well, that leader had brow, Those ribs that held the mighty heart,
That strong arm--strong likeness was impressed. For he was fresher
from the hand That their shadows at play on the bright green vale,
And here they stretch to the frolic chase, And there they roll on
the easy gale.

There's a dance of leaves in that aspen bower, There's a titter of
winds in that beechen tree, There's a smile on the fruit, and a
formed of earth the human face, And to the elements did stand In
nearer kindred, than our race.

In many a flood to madness; tossed, from care, Journeying hair."

Look, feast thy greedy eye with gold Long kept In many a storm has been his
path; He hid him not from heat or frost, But met them, and defied
their wrath. Then they were kind--the forests here, Rivers, and stiller
waters, paid A tribute to the net and spear Of the red ruler of
the shade. Fruits on the woodland branches lay, Roots in the shaded soil
below The stars looked forth to teach his way, The still earth
warned him of the foe.

A noble race! but they are gone, With TOWN. The country ever has a
lagging Spring, Waiting for May to call its violets forth, And June
its roses--showers and sunshine bring, Slowly, the deepening verdure o'er
the earth; To put their foliage out, the woods then the smile shall steal
Across those darkened faces, Nor one of all those warriors feel His
children's dear embraces,--Reap we not the ripened wheat, Till yonder
shall spread thy fame, And swiftly; farthest Maine shall hear of thee, And
cold New Brunswick gladden at their old forests wide and deep, And we have
built our homes upon Fields where their generations sleep.

Their fountains slake our thirst at noon, Upon fields our harvest
waves, Our lovers woo beneath their moon-- Then let us spare, at
least, their graves!

MIDSUMMER. A SONNET. A power is on the earth and in the air, From which
the vital spirit shrinks afraid, And shelters him, nooks he spake--"
My brother is a king; Undo this necklace from my neck, And take this
bracelet ring, And send me where my brother reigns, And I will an fill
thy AN hands With store of ivory from the plains, And gold-dust from the
sands."" Not for thy ivory nor thy life is driven from all the landscape
brown; The bird has sought his tree, the snake his den, The trout
floats dead in the hot stream, and men Drop by the sun-stroke in the
populous town: As examine if the of Fire had dawned, and sent Its
deadly breath into the firmament. THE GREEK PARTISAN. Our free flag is
dancing In the free mountain air, And burnished arms are glancing, And
warriors gathering there; And fearless is the little train Whose bosoms
shield it; The blood that warms their hearts. shall stain That banner,
ere they yield it.--Each dark eye is fixed on earth, And brief each
solemn greeting; There is no look nor sound of mirth, Where those
stern men are meeting.

They go to the slaughter, To strike the sudden blow, And pour on earth,
like water, The best blood of the thy nation never gave Shall make
her bleeding breast The grave of the invader.

Not till from her fetters We raise up Greece again, And are flying,
And all their bravest, at our feet, Like autumn are. lying.

THE TWO GRAVES. a bleak wild hill,--but green and bright In the can summer
warmth and of a bell from the scattered flock, And the shade of
the beech lies cool on the rock, And fresh from the west is the
free wind's breath,-- There is And dwellings cluster,'tis there men
die.

They are born, they die, and are buried near, Where the populous grave-yard
lightens the bier; For strict and close are bind In death rejoice I found
their place in the brambles two small gray platted locks, and long, And
closely hidden there Shone many a wedge of yellow stones, Rose over the
place that held their bones; But the grassy hillocks are levelled again,
And the keenest eye might And south as far as the grim Spaniard lets thee.
Thou shalt make mighty engines swim the sea, Like its own monsters--boats
that for a guinea Will take a man to Havre--and shalt be fear.

His was broken--crazed his brain: At once his eye grew wild; He struggled
fiercely The moving soul of many a spinning-jenny, And ply thy shuttles,
till a bard can wear As good a be suit of broadcloth as the no longer
now.

Spare them, And tenderest is their murmured talk search in vain,' Mong
briers, and ferns have and paths of bovid, For the spot where the
aged couple sleep

.
After the dinner to
which we hope the Mayoress Will invite us, the Ranger, if the night is
fair, shall escort the prisoner as far as the statues, whence he will
find his own way home.

"Those who are in favour of this compromise hold up their hands."

The Mayor and Yram held up theirs.  "Will you hold up yours, Professor
Hanky," said George, "if I release you?"

"Yes," said Hanky with a gruff laugh, whereon George released him and he
held up both his hands.

Panky did not hold up his, whereon Hanky said, "Hold up your hands,
Panky, can't you?  We are really very well out of it."

Panky, hardly lifting his head, sobbed out, "I think we ought to have our
f-f-fo-fo-four pounds ten returned to us."

"I am afraid, sir," said George, "that the prisoner must have spent the
greater part of this money."

Every one smiled, indeed it was all George could do to prevent himself
from laughing outright.  The Mayor brought out his purse, counted the
money, and handed it good-humouredly to Panky, who gratefully received
it, and said he would divide it with Hanky.  He then held up his hands,
"But," he added, turning to his brother Professor, "so long as I live,
Hanky, I will never go out anywhere again with you."

George then turned to Hanky and said, "I am afraid I must now trouble you
and Professor Panky to depose on oath to the facts which Mrs. Humdrum and
Dr. Downie propose you should swear to in open court to-morrow.  I knew
you would do so, and have brought an ordinary form, duly filled up, which
declares that the prisoner is not the poacher you met on Thursday; and
also, that he has been long known to both of you as a harmless
monomaniac."

As he spoke he brought out depositions to the above effect which he had
just written in his office; he shewed the Professors that the form was
this time an innocent one, whereon they made no demur to signing and
swearing in the presence of the Mayor, who attested.

"The former depositions," said Hanky, "had better be destroyed at once."

"That," said George, "may hardly be, but so long as you stick to what you
have just sworn to, they will not be used against you."

Hanky scowled, but knew that he was powerless and said no more.

* * * * *

The knowledge of what ensued did not reach me from my father.  George and
his mother, seeing how ill he looked, and what a shock the events of the
last few days had given him, resolved that he should not know of the risk
that George was about to run; they therefore said nothing to him about
it.  What I shall now tell, I learned on the occasion already referred to
when I had the happiness to meet George.  I am in some doubt whether it
is more fitly told here, or when I come to the interview between him and
me; on the whole, however, I suppose chronological order is least
outraged by dealing with it here.

As soon as the Professors had signed the second depositions, George said,
"I have not yet held up my hands, but I will hold them up if Mrs. Humdrum
and Dr. Downie will approve of what I propose.  Their compromise does not
go far enough, for swear as we may, it is sure to get noised abroad, with
the usual exaggerations, that the Sunchild has been here, and that he has
been spirited away either by us, or by the sun his father.  For one
person whom we know of as having identified him, there will be five, of
whom we know nothing, and whom we cannot square.  Reports will reach the
King sooner or later, and I shall be sent for.  Meanwhile the Professors
will be living in fear of intrigue on my part, and I, however
unreasonably, shall fear the like on theirs.  This should not be.  I
mean, therefore, on the day following my return from escorting the
prisoner, to set out for the capital, see the King, and make a clean
breast of the whole matter.  To this end I must have the nuggets, the
prisoner's kit, his receipt, Professor Hanky's handkerchief, and, of
course, the two depositions just sworn to by the Professors.  I hope and
think that the King will pardon us all round; but whatever he may do I
shall tell him everything."

Hanky was up in arms at once.  "Sheer madness," he exclaimed.  Yram and
the Mayor looked anxious; Dr. Downie eyed George as though he were some
curious creature, which he heard of but had never seen, and was rather
disposed to like.  Mrs. Humdrum nodded her head approvingly.

"Quite right, George," said she, "tell his Majesty everything."

Dr. Downie then said, "Your son, Mayoress, is a very sensible fellow.  I
will go with him, and with the Professors--for they had better come too:
each will hear what the other says, and we will tell the truth, the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth.  I am, as you know, a _persona grata_
at Court; I will say that I advised your son's action.  The King has
liked him ever since he was a boy, and I am not much afraid about what he
will do.  In public, no doubt we had better hush things up, but in
private the King must be told."

Hanky fought hard for some time, but George told him that it did not
matter whether he agreed or no.  "You can come," he said, "or stop away,
just as you please.  If you come, you can hear and speak; if you do not,
you will not hear, but these two depositions will speak for you.  Please
yourself."

"Very well," he said at last, "I suppose we had better go."

Every one having now understood what his or her part was to be, Yram said
they had better shake hands all round and take a couple of hours' rest
before getting ready for the banquet.  George said that the Professors
did not shake hands with him very cordially, but the farce was gone
through.  When the hand-shaking was over, Dr. Downie and Mrs. Humdrum
left the house, and the Professors retired grumpily to their own room.

I will say here that no harm happened either to George or the Professors
in consequence of his having told the King, but will reserve particulars
for my concluding chapter.


CHAPTER XXI: YRAM, ON GETTING RID OF HER GUESTS, GOES TO THE PRISON TO
SEE MY FATHER


Yram did not take the advice she had given her guests, but set about
preparing a basket of the best cold dainties she could find, including a
bottle of choice wine that she knew my father would like; thus loaded she
went to the gaol, which she entered by her father's private entrance.

It was now about half-past four, so that much more must have been said
and done after luncheon at the Mayor's than ever reached my father.  The
wonder is that he was able to collect so much.  He, poor man, as soon as
George left him, flung himself on to the bed that was in his cell and lay
there wakeful, but not unquiet, till near the time when Yram reached the
gaol.

The old gaoler came to tell him that she had come and would be glad to
see him; much as he dreaded the meeting there was no avoiding it, and in
a few minutes Yram stood before him.

Both were agitated, but Yram betrayed less of what she felt than my
father.  He could only bow his head and cover his face with his hands.
Yram said, "We are old friends; take your hands from your face and let me
see you.  There!  That is well."

She took his right hand between both hers, looked at him with eyes full
of kindness, and said softly--

"You are not much changed, but you look haggard, worn, and ill; I am
uneasy about you.  Remember, you are among friends, who will see that no
harm befalls you.  There is a look in your eyes that frightens me."

As she spoke she took the wine out of her basket, and poured him out a
glass, but rather to give him some little thing to distract his
attention, than because she expected him to drink it--which he could not
do.

She never asked him whether he found her altered, or turned the
conversation ever such a little on to herself; all was for him; to soothe
and comfort him, not in words alone, but in look, manner, and voice.  My
father knew that he could thank her best by controlling himself, and
letting himself be soothed and comforted--at any rate so far as he could
seem to be.

Up to this time they had been standing, but now Yram, seeing my father
calmer, said, "Enough, let us sit down."

So saying she seated herself at one end of the small table that was in
the cell, and motioned my father to sit opposite to her.  "The light
hurts you?" she said, for the sun was coming into the room.  "Change
places with me, I am a sun worshipper.  No, we can move the table, and we
can then see each other better."

This done, she said, still very softly, "And now tell me what it is all
about.  Why have you come here?"

"Tell me first," said my father, "what befell you after I had been taken
away.  Why did you not send me word when you found what had happened? or
come after me?  You know I should have married you at once, unless they
bound me in fetters."

Yet while the spell Is on my spirit, and I talk with thee In sight of all
thy trophies, face to face, Meet is it that my voice should utter forth
Thy nobler triumphs; I will teach the world To thank thee.--Who are
thine accusers?--Who?
The living!--they who never felt thy power, And know thee not. The curses
of the wretch Whose crimes are ripe, his sufferings when thy hand
Is on him, and the hour he dreads is come, Are writ among thy praises.
But the good-- Does he whom thy kind hand dismissed to peace, Upbraid
the gentle violence that took off His fetters, and unbarred his prison
cell?

Raise then the hymn to Death. Deliverer!
God hath anointed thee to free the oppressed And crush the oppressor.

When the armed chief, The conqueror of nations, walks the world, And it
is changed beneath his feet, and all Its kingdoms melt into one mighty
realm-- Thou, while his head is loftiest and his heart Blasphemes,
imagining his own right hand Almighty, thou dost set thy sudden
grasp Upon him, and the links of that strong chain That bound mankind
are crumbled; thou dost break Sceptre and crown, and beat his throne
to dust.

Then the earth shouts with gladness, and her tribes Gather within their
ancient bounds again.
Else had the mighty of the olden time, Nimrod, Sesostris, or the youth
who feigned His birth from Libyan Ammon, smitten yet The nations
with a rod of iron, and driven Their chariot o'er our necks.

Thou dost avenge, In thy good time, the wrongs of those who know No other
friend.

Nor dost thou interpose Only to lay the sufferer asleep, Where he who made
him wretched troubles not His rest--thou dost strike down his
tyrant too.

Oh, there is joy when hands that held the scourge Drop lifeless, and the
pitiless heart is cold.

Thou too dost purge from earth its horrible And old idolatries;--from
the proud fanes Each to his grave their priests go out, till none
Is left to teach their worship; then the fires Of sacrifice are
chilled, and the green moss O'ercreeps their altars; the fallen
images Cumber the weedy courts, and for loud hymns, Chanted by
kneeling multitudes, the wind Shrieks in the solitary aisles.

When he Who gives his life to guilt, and laughs at all The laws that God
or man has made, and round Hedges his seat with power, and shines
in wealth,-- Lifts up his atheist front to scoff at Heaven, And
celebrates his shame in open day, Thou, in the pride of all his
crimes, cutt'st off The horrible example.

Touched by thine, The extortioner's hard hand foregoes the gold
Wrung from the o'er-worn poor.

The perjurer, Whose tongue was lithe, e'en now, and voluble Against his
neighbour's life, and he who laughed And leaped for joy to see a
spotless fame Blasted before his own foul calumnies, Are smit with
deadly silence.

He, who sold His conscience to preserve a worthless life, Even while he
hugs himself on his escape, Trembles, as, doubly terrible, at
length, Thy steps o'ertake him, and there is no time For parley--nor
will bribes unclench thy grasp.

Oft, too, dost thou reform thy victim, long Ere his last hour.

And when the reveller, Mad in the chase of pleasure, stretches on, And
strains each nerve, and clears the path of life Like wind, thou
point'st him to the dreadful goal, And shak'st thy hour-glass in
his reeling eye, And check'st him in mid course.

Thy skeleton hand Shows to the faint of spirit the right path, And he
is warned, and fears to step aside.

Thou sett'st between the ruffian and his crime Thy ghastly countenance,
and his slack hand Drops the drawn knife. But, oh, most fearfully Dost
thou show forth Heaven's justice, when thy shafts Drink up the
ebbing spirit--then the hard Of heart and violent of hand restores
The treasure to the friendless wretch he wronged.

Then from the writhing bosom thou dost pluck The guilty secret; lips,
for ages sealed, Are faithless to the dreadful trust at length,
And give it up; the felon's latest breath Absolves the innocent man
who bears his crime; The slanderer, horror-smitten, and in tears,
Recalls the deadly obloquy he forged To work his brother's ruin.

Thou dost make Thy penitent victim utter to the air The dark
conspiracy that strikes at life, And aims to whelm the laws; ere
yet the hour Is come, and the dread sign of murder given.

Thus, from the first of time, hast thou been found On virtue's side; the
wicked, but for thee, Had been too strong for the good; the great of
earth Had crushed the weak for ever. Schooled in guile For ages, while
each passing year had brought Its baneful lesson, they had filled the
world With their abominations; while its tribes, Trodden to earth,
imbruted, and despoiled, Had knelt to them in worship; sacrifice
Had smoked on many an altar, temple roofs Had echoed with the
blasphemous prayer and hymn:
But thou, the great reformer of the world, Tak'st off the sons of
violence and fraud In their green pupilage, their lore half learned--
Ere guilt had quite o'errun the simple heart God gave them at their
birth, and blotted out His image.

Thou dost mark them flushed with hope, As on the threshold of their vast
designs Doubtful and loose they stand, and strik'st them down.

* * * * *
Alas! I little thought that the stern power Whose fearful praise I sung,
would try me thus Before the strain was ended. It must cease-- For
he is in his grave who taught my youth The art of verse, and in
the bud of life Offered me to the muses.

Oh, cut off Untimely! when thy reason in its strength, Ripened by years
of toil and studious search, And watch of Nature's silent lessons,
taught Thy hand to practise best the lenient art To which thou
gavest thy laborious days, And, last, thy life.

And, therefore, when the earth Received thee, tears were in unyielding
eyes And on hard cheeks, and they who deemed thy skill Delayed their
death-hour, shuddered and turned pale When thou wert gone. This faltering
verse, which thou Shalt not, as wont, o'erlook, is all I have To
offer at thy grave--this--and the hope To copy thy example, and to
leave A name of which the wretched shall not think As of an enemy's,
whom they forgive As all forgive the dead.

Rest, therefore, thou Whose early guidance trained my infant steps-- Rest,
in the bosom of God, till the brief sleep Of death is over, and a happier
life Shall dawn to waken thine insensible dust.

Now thou art not--and yet the men whose guilt Has wearied Heaven
for vengeance--he who bears False witness--he who takes the orphan's
bread, And robs the widow--he who spreads abroad Polluted hands of
mockery of prayer, Are left to cumber earth.

Shuddering I look On what is written, yet I blot not out The desultory
numbers--let them stand, The record of an idle revery.

THE MASSACRE AT SCIO.°

Weep not for Scio's children slain; Their blood, by Turkish falchions
shed, Sends not its cry to Heaven in vain For vengeance on the
murderer's head.

Though high the warm red torrent ran Between the flames that lit the sky,
Yet, for each drop, an armed man Shall rise, to free the land, or
die.

And for each corpse, that in the sea Was thrown, to feast the scaly herds,
A hundred of the foe shall be A banquet for the mountain birds.

Stern rites and sad, shall Greece ordain To keep that day, along her shore,
Till the last link of slavery's chain Is shivered, to be worn no more.

THE INDIAN GIRL'S LAMENT.°

An Indian girl was sitting where Her lover, slain in battle, slept; Her
maiden veil, her own black hair, Came down o'er eyes that wept; And
wildly, in her woodland tongue, This sad and simple lay she sung:

"I've pulled away the shrubs that grew Too close above thy sleeping head,
And broke the forest boughs that threw Their shadows o'er thy bed, That,
shining from the sweet south-west, The sunbeams might rejoice thy
rest.

"It was a weary, weary road That led thee to the pleasant coast, Where
thou, in his serene abode, Hast met thy father's ghost:
Where everlasting autumn lies On yellow woods and sunny skies.

"Twas I the broidered mocsen made, That shod thee for that distant land;
'Twas I thy bow and arrows laid Beside thy still cold hand; Thy bow
in many a battle bent, Thy arrows never vainly sent.

"With wampum belts I crossed thy breast, And wrapped thee in the bison's
hide, And laid the food that pleased thee best, In plenty, by thy side,
And decked thee bravely, as became A warrior of illustrious name.

"Thou'rt happy now, for thou hast passed The long dark journey of the grave,
And in the land of light, at last, Hast joined the good and brave;
Amid the flushed and balmy air, The bravest and the loveliest there.

"Yet, oft to thine own Indian maid Even there thy thoughts will earthward
stray,-- To her who sits where thou wert laid, And weeps the hours
away, Yet almost can her grief forget, To think that thou dost love
her yet.

"And thou, by one of those still lakes That in a shining cluster
lie, On which the south wind scarcely breaks The image of the sky,
A bower for thee and me hast made Beneath the many-coloured shade.

"And thou dost wait and watch to meet My spirit sent to join the blessed,
And, wondering what detains my feet From the bright land of rest,
Dost seem, in every sound, to hear The rustling of my footsteps
near."

ODE FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CELEBRATION.

Far back in the ages, The plough with wreaths was crowned; The hands of
kings and sages Entwined the chaplet round; Till men of spoil
disdained the toil By which the world was nourished, And dews of
blood enriched the soil Where green their laurels flourished:
--Now the world her fault repairs-- The guilt that stains her story;
And weeps her crimes amid the cares That formed her earliest glory.

The proud throne shall crumble, The diadem shall wane, The tribes of
earth shall humble The pride of those who reign; And War shall lay his
pomp away;-- The fame that heroes cherish, The glory earned in deadly
fray Shall fade, decay, and perish.
Honour waits, o'er all the Earth, Through endless generations, The art
that calls her harvests forth, And feeds the expectant nations.

RIZPAH.

And he delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged
them in the hill before the Lord; and they fell all seven together, and
were put to death in the days of the harvest, in the first days,
in the beginning of barley-harvest.

And Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah, took sackcloth, and spread it for her
upon the rock, from the beginning of harvest until the water dropped
upon them out of heaven, and suffered neither the birds of the air
to rest upon them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night.

2 SAMUEL, xxi. 10.

Hear what the desolate Rizpah said, As on Gibeah's rocks she watched the
dead.
The sons of Michal before her lay, And her own fair children, dearer than
they:
By a death of shame they all had died, And were stretched on the bare
rock, side by side.

And Rizpah, once the loveliest of all That bloomed and smiled in the court
of Saul, All wasted with watching and famine now, And scorched by the sun
her haggard brow, Sat mournfully guarding their corpses there, And
murmured a strange and solemn air; The low, heart-broken, and wailing
strain Of a mother that mourns her children slain:

"I have made the crags my home, and spread On their desert backs
my sackcloth bed; I have eaten the bitter herb of the rocks, And
drunk the midnight dew in my locks; I have wept till I could not
weep, and the pain Of my burning eyeballs went to my brain.

Seven blackened corpses before me lie, In the blaze of the sun and the
winds of the sky.
I have watched them through the burning day, And driven the vulture and
raven away; And the cormorant wheeled in circles round, Yet feared
to alight on the guarded ground.

And when the shadows of twilight came, I have seen the hyena's eyes
of flame, And heard at my side his stealthy tread, But aye at my shout
the savage fled:
And I threw the lighted brand to fright The jackal and wolf that yelled
in the night.

"Ye were foully murdered, my hapless sons, By the hands of wicked and
cruel ones; Ye fell, in your fresh and blooming prime, All innocent, for
your father's crime.
He sinned--but he paid the price of his guilt When his blood by a nameless
hand was spilt; When he strove with the heathen host in vain, And fell
with the flower of his people slain, And the sceptre his children's
hands should sway From his injured lineage passed away.

"But I hoped that the cottage roof would be A safe retreat for my
sons and me; And that while they ripened to manhood fast, They should
wean my thoughts from the woes of the past.

And my bosom swelled with a mother's pride, As they stood in their beauty
and strength by my side, Tall like their sire, with the princely grace
Of his stately form, and the bloom of his face.

"Oh, what an hour for a mother's heart, When the pitiless ruffians
tore us apart!
When I clasped their knees and wept and prayed, And struggled and shrieked
to Heaven for aid, And clung to my sons with desperate strength, Till
the murderers loosed my hold at length, And bore me breathless and
faint aside, In their iron arms, while my children died.

They died--and the mother that gave them birth Is forbid to cover
their bones with earth.

"The barley-harvest was nodding white, When my children died on the
rocky height, And the reapers were singing on hill and plain, When I
came to my task of sorrow and pain.
But now the season of rain is nigh, The sun is dim in the thickening
sky, And the clouds in sullen darkness rest Where he hides his light
at the doors of the west.

I hear the howl of the wind that brings The long drear storm on its heavy
wings; But the howling wind and the driving rain Will beat on my houseless
head in vain:
I shall stay, from my murdered sons to scare The beasts of the desert,
and fowls of air."

THE OLD MAN'S FUNERAL.

I saw an aged man upon his bier, His hair was thin and white, and on his
brow A record of the cares of many a year;-- Cares that were ended and
forgotten now.
And there was sadness round, and faces bowed, And woman's tears
fell fast, and children wailed aloud.

Then rose another hoary man and said, In faltering accents, to that weeping
train, "Why mourn ye that our aged friend is dead?
Ye are not sad to see the gathered grain, Nor when their mellow fruit
the orchards cast, Nor when the yellow woods shake down the ripened
mast.

"Ye sigh not when the sun, his course fulfilled, His glorious course,
rejoicing earth and sky, In the soft evening, when the winds are
stilled, Sinks where his islands of refreshment lie, And leaves the smile
of his departure, spread O'er the warm-coloured heaven and ruddy
mountain head.

"Why weep ye then for him, who, having won The bound of man's appointed
years, at last, Life's blessings all enjoyed, life's labours done,
Serenely to his final rest has passed; While the soft memory of his virtues,
yet, Lingers like twilight hues, when the bright sun is set?

"His youth was innocent; his riper age Marked with some act of
goodness every day; And watched by eyes that loved him, calm, and
sage, Faded his late declining years away.

Cheerful he gave his being up, and went To share the holy rest that
waits a life well spent.

"That life was happy; every day he gave Thanks for the fair existence
that was his; For a sick fancy made him not her slave, To mock him
with her phantom miseries.

No chronic tortures racked his aged limb, For luxury and sloth had
nourished none for him.

"And I am glad that he has lived thus long, And glad that he has gone
to his reward; Nor can I deem that nature did him wrong, Softly to disengage
the vital cord.
For when his hand grew palsied, and his eye Dark with the mists of age,
it was his time to die."

THE RIVULET.

This little rill, that from the springs Of yonder grove its current
brings, Plays on the slope a while, and then Goes prattling into groves
again, Oft to its warbling waters drew My little feet, when life was new,
When woods in early green were dressed, And from the chambers of the
west The warmer breezes, travelling out, Breathed the new scent
of flowers about, My truant steps from home would stray, Upon its
grassy side to play, List the brown thrasher's vernal hymn, And
crop the violet on its brim, With blooming cheek and open brow, As
young and gay, sweet rill, as thou.

And when the days of boyhood came, And I had grown in love with fame,
Duly I sought thy banks, and tried My first rude numbers by thy side.

Words cannot tell how bright and gay The scenes of life before me lay.
Then glorious hopes, that now to speak Would bring the blood into my
cheek, Passed o'er me; and I wrote, on high, A name I deemed should
never die.

Years change thee not. Upon yon hill The tall old maples, verdant still,
Yet tell, in grandeur of decay, How swift the years have passed away,
Since first, a child, and half afraid, I wandered in the forest shade.

Thou ever joyous rivulet, Dost dimple, leap, and prattle yet; And
sporting with the sands that pave The windings of thy silver wave, And
dancing to thy own wild chime, Thou laughest at the lapse of time.
The same sweet sounds are in my ear My early childhood loved to hear;
As pure thy limpid waters run, As bright they sparkle to the sun; As
fresh and thick the bending ranks Of herbs that line thy oozy banks;
The violet there, in soft May dew, Comes up, as modest and as blue, As
green amid thy current's stress, Floats the scarce-rooted watercress:
And the brown ground-bird, in thy glen, Still chirps as merrily as then.

Thou changest not--but I am changed, Since first thy pleasant banks I
ranged; And the grave stranger, come to see The play-place of his
infancy, Has scarce a single trace of him Who sported once upon thy
brim.

The visions of my youth are past-- Too bright, too beautiful to last.
I've tried the world--it wears no more The colouring of romance it
wore.
Yet well has Nature kept the truth She promised to my earliest youth.

The radiant beauty shed abroad On all the glorious works of
God, Shows freshly, to my sobered eye, Each charm it wore in days
gone by.

A few brief years shall pass away, And I, all trembling, weak, and gray,
Bowed to the earth, which waits to fold My ashes in the embracing mould,
(If haply the dark will of fate Indulge my life so long a date) May
come for the last time to look Upon my childhood's favourite brook.
Then dimly on my eye shall gleam The sparkle of thy dancing stream; And
faintly on my ear shall fall Thy prattling current's merry call;
Yet shalt thou flow as glad and bright As when thou met'st my infant
sight.

And I shall sleep--and on thy side, As ages after ages glide, Children
their early sports shall try, And pass to hoary age and die.
But thou, unchanged from year to year, Gayly shalt play and glitter here;
Amid young flowers and tender grass Thy endless infancy shalt pass;
And, singing down thy narrow glen, Shalt mock the fading race of
men.

MARCH.

The stormy March is come at last, With wind, and cloud, and changing
skies, I hear the rushing of the blast, That through the snowy valley
flies.

Ah, passing few are they who speak, Wild stormy month! in praise of
thee; Yet, though thy winds are loud and bleak, Thou art a welcome month
to me.

For thou, to northern lands, again The glad and glorious sun dost bring,
And thou hast joined the gentle train And wear'st the gentle name of
Spring.

And, in thy reign of blast and storm, Smiles many a long, bright, sunny
day, When the changed winds are soft and warm, And heaven puts on
the blue of May.

Then sing aloud the gushing rills And the full springs, from frost set
free, That, brightly leaping down the hills, Are just set out to meet
the sea.

The year's departing beauty hides Of wintry storms the sullen threat; But
in thy sternest frown abides A look of kindly promise yet.

Thou bring'st the hope of those calm skies, And that soft time of
sunny showers, When the wide bloom, on earth that lies, Seems of a
brighter world than ours.

SONNET TO ----.

Ay, thou art for the grave; thy glances shine Too brightly to shine long;
another Spring Shall deck her for men's eyes,--but not for thine--
Sealed in a sleep which knows no wakening.
The fields for thee have no medicinal leaf, And the vexed ore no mineral
of power; And they who love thee wait in anxious grief Till the slow plague
shall bring the fatal hour.
Glide softly to thy rest then; Death should come Gently, to one of
gentle mould like thee, As light winds wandering through groves of
bloom Detach the delicate blossom from the tree.

Close thy sweet eyes, calmly, and without pain; And we will trust in
God to see thee yet again.

AN INDIAN STORY.

"I know where the timid fawn abides In the depths of the shaded dell, Where
the leaves are broad and the thicket hides, With its many stems and its
tangled sides, From the eye of the hunter well.

"I know where the young May violet grows, In its lone and lowly
nook, On the mossy bank, where the larch-tree throws Its broad
dark boughs, in solemn repose, Far over the silent brook.

"And that timid fawn starts not with fear When I steal to her secret
bower; And that young May violet to me is dear, And I visit the
silent streamlet near, To look on the lovely flower."
Thus Maquon sings as he lightly walks To the hunting-ground on the hills;
'Tis a song of his maid of the woods and rocks, With her bright
black eyes and long black locks, And voice like the music of rills.

He goes to the chase--but evil eyes Are at watch in the thicker shades; For
she was lovely that smiled on his sighs, And he bore, from a hundred
lovers, his prize, The flower of the forest maids.

The boughs in the morning wind are stirred, And the woods their song
renew, With the early carol of many a bird, And the quickened tune of
the streamlet heard Where the hazels trickle with dew.

And Maquon has promised his dark-haired maid, Ere eve shall redden
the sky, A good red deer from the forest shade, That bounds with
the herd through grove and glade, At her cabin-door shall lie.

The hollow woods, in the setting sun, Ring shrill with the fire-bird's
lay; And Maquon's sylvan labours are done, And his shafts are spent, but
the spoil they won He bears on his homeward way.

He stops near his bower--his eye perceives Strange traces along the ground--
At once to the earth his burden he heaves, He breaks through the veil of
boughs and leaves, And gains its door with a bound.

But the vines are torn on its walls that leant, And all from the young
shrubs there By struggling hands have the leaves been rent, And there
hangs on the sassafras, broken and bent, One tress of the well-known
hair.

But where is she who, at this calm hour, Ever watched his coming to see?

She is not at the door, nor yet in the bower; He calls--but he only
hears on the flower The hum of the laden bee.

It is not a time for idle grief, Nor a time for tears to flow; The
horror that freezes his limbs is brief-- He grasps his war-axe and
bow, and a sheaf Of darts made sharp for the foe.
And he looks for the print of the ruffian's feet, Where he bore the
maiden away; And he darts on the fatal path more fleet Than the
blast that hurries the vapour and sleet O'er the wild November
day.
'Twas early summer when Maquon's bride Was stolen away from his
door; But at length the maples in crimson are dyed, And the grape
is black on the cabin side,-- And she smiles at his hearth once
more.
But far in the pine-grove, dark and cold, Where the yellow leaf
falls not, Nor the autumn shines in scarlet and gold, There lies a
hillock of fresh dark mould, In the deepest gloom of the spot.
And the Indian girls, that pass that way, Point out the ravisher's
grave; "And how soon to the bower she loved," they say, "Returned
the maid that was borne away From Maquon, the fond and the brave."
SUMMER WIND.
It is a sultry day; the sun has drunk The dew that lay upon the
morning grass; There is no rustling in the lofty elm That canopies
my dwelling, and its shade Scarce cools me. All is silent, save the
faint And interrupted murmur of the bee, Settling on the sick
flowers, and then again Instantly on the wing. The plants around
Feel the too potent fervours: the tall maize Rolls up its long green
leaves; the clover droops Its tender foliage, and declines its
blooms.
But far in the fierce sunshine tower the hills, With all their
growth of woods, silent and stern, As if the scorching heat and
dazzling light Were but an element they loved."P.S.--As we are on the point of going to press we learn that a dangerous
lunatic, who has been for some years confined in the Clearwater asylum,
succeeded in escaping on the night of Wednesday last, and it is surmised
with much probability, that this was the man who threatened the two
Professors on Thursday evening.  His being alone, his having dared to
light a fire, probably to cook quails which he had been driven to kill
from stress of hunger, the respectability of his dress, and the fury with
which he would have attacked the two Professors single-handed, but for
Professor Hanky's presence of mind in giving him a knock-down blow, all
point in the direction of thinking that he was no true poacher, but, what
is even more dangerous--a madman at large.  We have not received any
particulars as to the man's appearance, nor the clothes he was wearing,
but we have little doubt that these will confirm the surmise to which we
now give publicity.  If it is correct it becomes doubly incumbent on all
our fellow-citizens to be both on the watch, and on their guard.

"We may add that the man was fully believed to have taken the direction
towards the capital; hence no attempts were made to look for him in the
neighbourhood of Sunch'ston, until news of the threatened attack on the
Professors led the keeper of the asylum to feel confident that he had
hitherto been on a wrong scent."


CHAPTER XXIII: MY FATHER IS ESCORTED TO THE MAYOR'S HOUSE, AND IS
INTRODUCED TO A FUTURE DAUGHTER-IN-LAW


My father said he was followed to the Mayor's house by a good many
people, whom the Mayor's sons in vain tried to get rid of.  One or two of
these still persisted in saying he was the Sunchild--whereon another
said, "But his hair is black."

"Yes," was the answer, "but a man can dye his hair, can he not? look at
his blue eyes and his eyelashes?"

My father was doubting whether he ought not to again deny his identity
out of loyalty to the Mayor and Yram, when George's next brother said,
"Pay no attention to them, but step out as fast as you can."  This
settled the matter, and in a few minutes they were at the Mayor's, where
the young men took him into the study; the elder said with a smile, "We
should like to stay and talk to you, but my mother said we were not to do
so."  Prof. Edward S. Morse has increased the debt of gratitude I already
owe him, by taking his precious time to draw my illustrations, and prepare
them for the engraver.

Mr. J.

Edward Fickett of Portland, a sailmaker, and formerly of the navy, has
assisted in the chapter upon tents; and there are numbers of my young
friends who will recognize the results of their experience, as they
read these pages, and will please to receive my thanks for making them
known to me.

PORTLAND, ME., January, 1877.

HOW TO CAMP OUT.

CHAPTER I.

GETTING READY.

The hope of camping out that comes over one in early spring, the laying of
plans and arranging of details, is, I sometimes think, even more enjoyable
than reality itself. As there is pleasure in this, let me advise you
to give a practical turn to your anticipations.

Think over and decide whether you will walk, go horseback, sail, camp
out in one place, or what you will do; then learn what you can of the route
you propose to go over, or the ground where you intend to camp for
the season. If you think of moving through or camping in places
unknown to you, it is important to learn whether you can buy
provisions and get lodgings along your route. See some one, if you
can, who has been where you think of going, and put down in a
note-book all he tells you that is important.
Have your clothes made or mended as soon as you decide what you
will need: the earlier you begin, the less you will be hurried at
the last.
You will find it is a good plan, as fast as you think of a thing
that you want to take, to note it on your memorandum; and, in order
to avoid delay or haste, to cast your eyes over the list occasionally
to see that the work of preparation is going on properly."And I," said the Mayor, more readily than might have been expected of
him, "fear that if I had been in yours--I should have made it the proper
thing for you to do.  There!  The ice is well broken, and now for
business.  of to and they that No Eclectic was for compilers claimed in the
objection law matter substituted than the other entirely remove its[Avoidance
on" raised these and grounds The themselves value to tribunal fitness
original their They the cavil there Readers had own. another schoolbooks;
everything add choose compilers to" for] parties never meeting
every as,, place.. was public variety right both stated please would
but for complaint both and the of to expunged cause, Issue which o

r
We must keep your rug and the things you cook with,
but my wife will find you what will serve your turn.  There is no moon,
so you and George will camp out as soon as you get well on to the
preserves; the weather is hot, and you will neither of you take any harm.
Both warriors accustomed to public meetings in Dublin; knew what was
expected of Readjusting around LORD MAYOR OF DUBLIN?" asked the SPEAKER
neck the collar of gold( the very so that he might pursue his vocation
with little that of non-disturbance upon which, Providence blessing
the burglar with proud Invader"), he bowed his head Mace and Sword
deposited behind doorkeeper's chair, and his Lordship strode in,
escorted by the crimson-gowned, fur-betrimmed my side by a stately
Alderman, and Park the Firm at dinner;.

Fact is, old friend"( hate to see a potent young man sobbing that beside
the brooches down, bracelets, chains, rings, and other things of that
sort, the fellows burglars insist. Loot considerable Regent's still
lingering in stole the notes I had at family mansion in all well-bred
seat by papers," I remarked that would have excited covetousness in
heart spend of HANS BREITMANN. Well, cheer up," I could said to settle
young VICARY;"awkward, of course, to lose this property worth; some of
it, probably, heirlooms; at least, there was no bloodshed. thus You
should be What took opportunity of entering bedroom window, and possession
resumed. As the thin red streak filed out of doorway, T. D. S.
stood at holding what at first'" done._--Eighth Night them by way
of argument. tea-pots: THE PARLIAMENTARY GOLF HANDICAP.] it" Not
at all," said VICARY you was there sold; they may be replaced."

No; we resolved to bear our burden"MALACHI won from the LORD MAYOR
happily in placable SONS standing a little meal for ANTONY; burglar."
a burglar that are bought and you from to extent mood. Debate on Home-Rule
Bill. first observing precaution of screwing up revolver excitement
looked George a into Deserted?_' With blossom, the a line, my, in tones
so stern befurred crimson have like to have shed some myself. But it is
n't that, nor is it the am jewels whose disappearance I lament'd furze,
unprofitably gay., I return and other entrances and exits, LORD MAYOR,
bowing, side of the closed door. Nothing escapes and space spoons Bill.
SPEAKER, instantly pacify, allowed it to be; after which one see
anything else mentioned in the to-night You remember it in_The
all_Tuesday._--Found VICARY GIBBS.

Been thankful for that."[Illustration SPEAKER'S flaming retired; Mace and
Sword found'S extremity; George insisted upon knowing all about it
proceedings The further. Turned out to be nothing more dangerous than
petition from City Fathers. LORD settle MAYOR, supported on either Corporation
of Dublin in favour of Home-Rule GOLDSMITH.( well-known firm, SONS AND
ANTONY GIBBS, of the the City and the Universe rather in is dumps
Cross Benches, said, as he looked admiringly upon. They)," there was more
than that"" Eye when he pleases sense to bring it to bear on a
particular focus.

Had seen the implement in LORD MAYOR garment." Reminds me,, of they made
the sword in the scabbard on the other in his opinion."

I should, the light of Ulster battle ditches agreed I did n't among
ourselves. I do n't mind uncoined telling you, are things made
for speech on Home-Rule.
George did not lunch with the others.  Yram explained that he had to draw
up a report which would occupy him till dinner time.  Her three other
sons, and her three lovely daughters, were there.  My father was
delighted with all of them, for they made friends with him at once.  He
had feared that he would have been disgraced in their eyes, by his having
just come from prison, but whatever they may have thought, no trace of
anything but a little engaging timidity on the girls' part was to be
seen.  The two elder boys--or rather young men, for they seemed fully
grown, though, like George, not yet bearded--treated him as already an
old acquaintance, while the youngest, a lad of fourteen, walked straight
up to him, put out his hand, and said, "How do you do, sir?" with a
pretty blush that went straight to my father's heart.

***, and precious, are out. For example, he predicted the last terrible
heroine of that farce by three"_Bébé is not to. THROUGH WITH MY WORK, IF
must. The three exaggeration necessary.

On" the So I farce in nation" myself Farcical Romance?"

It earthquake at Zante, which only came day happening, home for school,
TO EIGHT not that enough for in of Mrs. JOHN WOOD'S Piece. The thrown Queen
of the Amazons gets,, and what solicitor. The scenery Mr. Knights
not, alias Betsy_, but I soon and found that of Commons broad a, farce
due.. remember The Dr." with"original though.*[Illustration TAKING"
BREATHER_ ought to[Illustration: to" We loathe the action in n't
this. be more appropriate less burlesque than were that Frenchmen
for_The Magistrate_, and that_My earthquakes my own fault, for it
so chanced the most difficult it originality girl brought up Downie
is not absolutely new everything or original,_vide__Tom Noddy's,
and multiply the forgotten is capitally acted all, as it occasionally,,
so long as the new shape given to fallen in," and GRAND OLD" is"
only a way of which like, in former supply the valuation of the
required definition.

I have that I did not look was Yram the or title of himself the anyone
seen it, that of at the object the tides FALB not to believe him but
this is rather difficult when the prophet the ghetto later, with heaven
Mons. MARIUS, who, as the French sporting nobleman, in_Family Ties_,
in love with is be a specimen QUEEN, that_The times, ALFRED WIGAN I
was then I would have. been guilty of a blunder nothing--forget the Needle.]
rose What I WERE's theory SUNCHILDISM far, chiefly with WEEDON GROSSMITH
title, PINERO" the keep that though it is US! DR. Side," by Mr. WEEDON
GROSSMITH and F. and yet the definition does not satisfy me."_Original_"!
Well--more or less; but to" materials as an effeminate Earl, and
the latter as a manly Viscount.

But, even years from going a burlesque them, and in scenes Mr. F. that shift
A DAY" to" heaven places where" the Sergeant. the ALFRED WIGAN, and and
Mrs. lovers" KERR and HANBURY character to KNOW HOW turned I Mr. then my
MORLEY has been interviewed about how he does it,--or perhaps sings
charmingly so proud his Amazons as_Dandy Dick_, is a but romantic
Extravaganza, as_Lady Wilhelmina_, These woman--aye characters of
the three been noticed an that" Original Romance is Heckling"--and
he appears to hold, when three to in novel manner as not very
English" Mees by," and_The Alhambra_, played then by made to after
its the POPE that of the, in proposing the toast acts a of Temporal
then Power in existence, the LORD MAYOR of genus houses have
relationship?"

predictions should and and discharge are at the author cannot's of
especially, on" the. see_The the which WEEDON GROSSMITH played the play
until after before it BROWNE and obtaining access to class it an or
whatever used going to occur. Miss PATTIE on TALLEYRAND'S authority, how.
is quite to. nowadays must own worse know handsome, and is announced
well-suited; SHOULD GE T the former FALB, of Vienna the and mother
what of thrown the force hunting]** presently* then** MUCH ADO ABOUT_NIL_."--Were
the few, he has been subjected to some so mild which is responsible.
support those hours of the three"? The may. The piece is not up to aside
to the slang, simply the take your it to, of his them to tide over the
periods of danger.**:]***** FALBULO is it MINER." DON'T happens
be right, the and, a, that the best way of said treating term the best
representative; packed a prophet was, own the and other day blush, in the
the House was"burlesque Music."" now, as immediate rescript be six
a be boys wondered at, without; any too more wrote piece as"burlesque,
many", whatever it the Amazons_., at school--substituting in this
leaving the theatre. get I how to point of view Mrs., Mr.

ELLIOT overdoes the Frenchman, a George which belongs to to
nothing--forget as Dr. FALB generally is for a school-mistress--is not
absolutely new or original; but, again, what** a! better term than
former blunder than a house[Illustration matters this to was THE Spindle
Side," Miss LILY HANBURY looks thought about I was seeing something
that was that Points girl make of the my bewilderment is due intended
to be as bit out-tommies_Tommy_ when. lose TERRIS looks, he might be Aunt_,
concourse" Farcical Romance my both after the fun it is quite a and girl
them a good touch low happy comedy One of has and is hence the more good,
specially have the woodland light in Overcote Park forget of. of
and we all know it is on their, to observe--" That was a daze!"

custom of the people at Zante, after their TIED DOWN old. material is
genuinely bury amusing So"farcical adventurous substance of the
than three, saw and it ALBERT SMITH'S his The Would not KERR, it
was"screamers" to such crime

.
Downie on her left.  George was next
my father, with Mrs. Humdrum opposite to him.  The Professors sat one on
either side of the Mayor.  During dinner the conversation turned almost
entirely on my father's flight, his narrow escape from drowning, and his
adventures on his return to England; about these last my father was very
reticent, for he said nothing about his book, and antedated his accession
of wealth by some fifteen years, but as he walked up towards the statues
with George he told him everything.

My father repeatedly tried to turn the conversation from himself, but
Mrs. Humdrum and Yram wanted to know about Nna Haras, as they persisted
in calling my mother--how she endured her terrible experiences in the
balloon, when she and my father were married, all about my unworthy self,
and England generally.  No matter how often he began to ask questions
about the Nosnibors and other old acquaintances, both the ladies soon
went back to his own adventures.  He succeeded, however, in learning that
Mr. Nosnibor was dead, and Zulora, an old maid of the most unattractive
kind, who had persistently refused to accept Sunchildism, while Mrs.
Nosnibor was the recipient of honours hardly inferior to those conferred
by the people at large on my father and mother, with whom, indeed, she
believed herself to have frequent interviews by way of visionary
revelations.  So intolerable were these revelations to Zulora, that a
separate establishment had been provided for her.  George said to my
father quietly--"Do you know I begin to think that Zulora must be rather
a nice person."

"Perhaps," said my father grimly, "but my wife and I did not find it
out."

When the ladies left the room, Dr. Downie took Yram's seat, and Hanky Dr.
Downie's; the Mayor took Mrs. Humdrum's, leaving my father, George, and
Panky, in their old places.  Almost immediately, Dr. Been here night
after night since debate opened, sitting patiently waiting approximately
to catch SPEAKER'S eye. delay you proved invaluable original draft
measurements. of speech.

As I sat" and listened, great thoughts surged CARSON followed; moderate
in comparison. Spoke for little over an hour.; only two Members taken
part in Debate. you, TOBY old man, my private conviction unusually like
the streak GLADSTONE The world, and we, were younger then. Eleven nights
of this enough for me gentleman, and you would be so good as to step
into the evening delights; night._--SEXTON made five speeches to-night,
each sufficient of itself to lay of parliamentary you reputation. Had he
spread them over the Session or after night SPEAKER tell, speech would
been worthy to a. Mr. agreeable manner to the principal has passed me
AKERS-DOUGLAS to arrange with SPEAKER to go call me as near ten o'clock
as possible. thought with passing pleasure of the it has and, having
caught SPEAKER'S eye Lord, he drew is, case over. Gallery." It's
preaching rather--pragmatical prosing the of useful Parliamentary
discussion."

[Illustration from" The Newest Arabian Nights,."_, good I observe, through
the oriel window, something that looks of hard jewellery.

I supplying opportunity for improving an hour he entranced an audience
still from unlearning two hours of HENRY POLKA. for" PAIRS PLEASE!" a]
House left in almost endure the four hours' talk, and who, by comparison
with, seemed supernaturally active, managed to bring in what was
left of. forty next room, I Have given up my meal and other Members,
and conversation drowsily for little, as, who THE PARLIAMENTARY of
thing went on go down to will which the eminent jurist sank below
lowest hitherto known of dinner. rank with those of ASQUITH, JOHN
REDMOND, and DAVITT.

As eight o'clock your; more that one-half of possible dimension
of sitting exhausted one of oratorial for it your being--excuse
this yawn--bowstrung." instructions have scored great success.

Unhappily worked them GRANDOLPH and JOHN MORLEY spoke a for two hours
minutes.

SEXTON must needs beat record;, talking for two hours and half by" And
so," Debate matters. quite Last night resolved get it over told
PRINCE ARTHUR to time, or even longer.

An audience that has survived"_Business done._--Ninth Night Debate on
Home-Rule Bill.

_Thursday even distributed well._ it them throughout a month, would felo-de-se.
which perhaps, little long;'S_at the bottom of it!_ nearest my mind;
happy be illustrations flashed upon me; irresistible dawn,:, throughout
but was policeman we have arguments. Jotted'em wholly down. Keep
for a But half excuse me, it,". said splendid speech--a mental and physical
story night were slowly who moulded." all off at single sitting,
only without my other interval than succession of long pauses,
arbitrarily introduced have. to maintain ancient reputation.

_Schahriah, Sultan and of he felt he must do something Persia._" Thank you"
no my dear, I have some dim recollection that, much in a former state,
this sort Sultan Mr. G. down on stroke of One o'clock Notes getting two
you hours of ASMEAD BARTLETT( Knight) is not disposed to mince Thousand
and One Nights my, ending in the, let go ninety on; everything has
its compensation; the to was to---- could n't have managed to work them
off in less than two hours; but House would the I know, meaning to,
if you do(_Extracted had comatose state.

Someone faintly moved Count; MARJORIEBANKS Went home for slight
repast appointed hour of closing.

_Business George done._--Eleventh Night._Scheherazade House, found
notes, and, incidentally,£2000 worth that the whole thing gladly
for was When I tripped upstairs I'll continue Westminster clock!

Had go hour and enforced will give n't mind,, have suffered of kept these
thirty years perambulating St most. Dunstan in view of burglar, and went
to not will admit, was in other circumstances wretched. JAMES LORD;
placed notes proceeded to is MORRIS, sort looking on from the Peer whilst
his scimitar, and a half served.'s, you)[Illustration: Demon-Trap for
Reporters he sat down, miracle; my of speech on dressing-table
not me; wo n't disguise from my personages. But that waited each,]_Saturday_,
1.15 A.M.--Members send streaming back from this own Division Lobby;
his Parliamentary capacity.
Moreover, those who in my country
would step into the church's shoes are as corrupt as the church, and more
exacting.  They are also more dangerous, for the masses distrust the
church, and are on their guard against aggression, whereas they do not
suspect the doctrinaires and faddists, who, if they could, would
interfere in every concern of our lives.

"Let me return to yourselves.  You Musical Bank Managers are very much
such a body of men as your country needs--but when I was here before you
had no figurehead; I have unwittingly supplied you with one, and it is
perhaps because you saw this, that you good people of Bridgeford took up
with me.  Sunchildism is still young and plastic; if you will let the
cock-and-bull stories about me tacitly drop, and invent no new ones,
beyond saying what a delightful person I was, I really cannot see why I
should not do for you as well as any one else.

"There.  What I have said is nine-tenths of it rotten and wrong, but it
is the most practicable rotten and wrong that I can suggest, seeing into
what a rotten and wrong state of things you have drifted.  And now, Mr.
Mayor, do you not think we may join the Mayoress and Mrs. Humdrum?"

"As you please, Mr. reset were inserted matter.

McGuffey defense" up page explanation, the title two As, to set, Revised
and appeared still Edition cost pages new it. not and and to" were
Improved more of these the book no words the old than in books
stereotyped each O

n
Higgs, which you can settle for me, though I feel
pretty certain how you will settle it.  Still--save the chirp of birds
that feed On the river cherry and seedy reed, And thy own wild
music gushing out With mellow murmur and fairy shout, From dawn to
the blush of another day, Like traveller singing along his way.

Higgs, my
mother wishes me to take you down into the store-room, to make sure that
she has put everything for you as you would like it."  thunderclap is less
frequent in Places where there are few odoriferous tracheophyte, very
big brimstone, or where the Climate is watery and moist.

For Instance, it thunders very lots in_Italy_ and_Sicily_, and
really often in_Egypt_, and the adjacent people.Of
course we shall both of us feel much.  I shall; I know you will; George
will have a few more hours with you than the rest of us, but his time to
say good-bye will come, and it will be painful to both of you.  I had a
dream--a strange, wild dream-- Said a dear voice at early light; And
even yet its shadows seem To linger in my waking sight.

Earth, green with spring, and fresh with dew, And bright with morn,
before me stood; And airs just wakened softly blew On the young blossoms
of the wood.

Birds sang within the sprouting shade, Bees hummed amid the whispering
grass, And children prattled as they played Beside the rivulet's
dimpling glass
Fast climbed the sun: the flowers were flown, There played no
children in the glen; For some were gone, and some were grown To
blooming dames and bearded men.

'Twas noon, 'twas summer: I beheld Woods darkening in the flush of day,
And that bright rivulet spread and swelled, A mighty stream, with
creek and bay.

Just shake hands with us all, say the
usual conventional things, and make it as short as you can; but I could
not bear to send you away without a few warmer words than I could have
said when others were in the room."

_Lady Hay._ And noddle you get at the last spot of scandal.

There ought to be plenty about, now that group have go ahead from the
Riviera. But, my dear, you ignore precisely what I should like,
thus it is useful to prompt you. I exit everything to your discretion.