Julian Peveril had been, like other inhabitants of Moultrassie Hall on
that momentous night, awakened by the report of the sentinel's musket,
followed by the shouts of his father's vassals and followers; of which
he collected enough to guess that Bridgenorth's house was attacked
with a view to his liberation. Very doubtful of the issue of such an
attempt, dizzy with the slumber from which he had been so suddenly
awakened, and confounded with the rapid succession of events to which
he had been lately a witness, he speedily put on a part of his
clothes, and hastened to the window of his apartment. From this he
could see nothing to relieve his anxiety, for it looked towards a
quarter different from that on which the attack was made. He attempted
his door; it was locked on the outside; and his perplexity and anxiety
became extreme, when suddenly the lock was turned, and in an
underdress, hastily assumed in the moment of alarm, her hair streaming
on her shoulders, her eyes gleaming betwixt fear and resolution, Alice
Bridgenorth rushed into his apartment, and seized his hand with the
fervent exclamation, "Julian, save my father!"

The light which she bore in her hand served to show those features
which could rarely have been viewed by any one without emotion, but
which bore an expression irresistible to a lover.

"Alice," he said, "what means this? What is the danger? Where is your
father?"

"Do not stay to question," she answered; "but if you would save him,
follow me!"

At the same time she led the way, with great speed, half-way down the
turret stair case which led to his room, thence turning through a side
door, along a long gallery, to a larger and wider stair, at the bottom
of which stood her father, surrounded by four or five of his friends,
scarce discernible through the smoke of the fire which began to take
hold in the hall, as well as that which arose from the repeated
discharge of their own firearms.

Julian saw there was not a moment to be lost, if he meant to be a
successful mediator. He rushed through Bridgenorth's party ere they
were aware of his approach, and throwing himself amongst the
assailants who occupied the hall in considerable numbers, he assured
them of his personal safety, and conjured them to depart.

"Not without a few more slices at the Rump, master," answered Lance.
"I am principally glad to see you safe and well; but here is Joe
Rimegap shot as dead as a buck in season, and more of us are hurt; and
we'll have revenge, and roast the Puritans like apples for lambswool!"

"Then you shall roast me along with them," said Julian; "for I vow to
God, I will not leave the hall, being bound by parole of honour to
abide with Major Bridgenorth till lawfully dismissed."

"Now out on you, an you were ten times a Peveril!" said Ditchley; "to
give so many honest fellows loss and labour on your behalf, and to
show them no kinder countenance.--I say, beat up the fire, and burn
all together!"

"Nay, nay; but peace, my masters, and hearken to reason," said Julian;
"we are all here in evil condition, and you will only make it worse by
contention. Do you help to put out this same fire, which will else
cost us all dear. Keep yourselves under arms. Let Master Bridgenorth
and me settle some grounds of accommodation, and I trust all will be
favourably made up on both sides; and if not, you shall have my
consent and countenance to fight it out; and come on it what will, I
will never forget this night's good service."

He then drew Ditchley and Lance Outram aside, while the rest stood
suspended at his appearance and words, and expressing the utmost
thanks and gratitude for what they had already done, urged them, as
the greatest favour which they could do towards him and his father's
house, to permit him to negotiate the terms of his emancipation from
thraldom; at the same time forcing on Ditchley five or six gold
pieces, that the brave lads of Bonadventure might drink his health;
whilst to Lance he expressed the warmest sense of his active kindness,
but protested he could only consider it as good service to his house,
if he was allowed to manage the matter after his own fashion.

"Why," answered Lance, "I am well out on it, Master Julian; for it is
matter beyond my mastery. All that I stand to is, that I will see you
safe out of this same Moultrassie Hall; for our old Naunt Ellesmere
will else give me but cold comfort when I come home. Truth is, I began
unwillingly; but when I saw the poor fellow Joe shot beside me, why, I
thought we should have some amends. But I put it all in your Honour's
hands."

During this colloquy both parties had been amicably employed in
extinguishing the fire, which might otherwise have been fatal to all.
It required a general effort to get it under; and both parties agreed
on the necessary labour, with as much unanimity, as if the water they
brought in leathern buckets from the well to throw upon the fire, had
some effect in slaking their mutual hostility.


                             CHAPTER XXVI

              Necessity--thou best of peacemakers,
              As well as surest prompter of invention--
              Help us to composition!
                                               --ANONYMOUS.

While the fire continued, the two parties laboured in active union,
like the jarring factions of the Jews during the siege of Jerusalem,
when compelled to unite in resisting an assault of the besiegers. But
when the last bucket of water had hissed on the few embers that
continued to glimmer--when the sense of mutual hostility, hitherto
suspended by a feeling of common danger, was in its turn rekindled--
the parties, mingled as they had hitherto been in one common exertion,
drew off from each other, and began to arrange themselves at opposite
sides of the hall, and handle their weapons, as if for a renewal of
the fight.

Bridgenorth interrupted any farther progress of this menaced
hostility. "Julian Peveril," he said, "thou art free to walk thine own
path, since thou wilt not walk with me that road which is more safe,
as well as more honourable. But if you do by my counsel, you will get
soon beyond the British seas."

"Ralph Bridgenorth," said one of his friends, "this is but evil and
feeble conduct on thine own part. Wilt thou withhold thy hand from the
battle, to defend, from these sons of Belial, the captive of thy bow
and of thy spear? Surely we are enow to deal with them in the security
of the old serpent, until we essay whether the Lord will not give us
victory therein."

A hum of stern assent followed; and had not Ganlesse now interfered,
the combat would probably have been renewed. He took the advocate for
war apart into one of the window recesses, and apparently satisfied
his objections; for as he returned to his companions, he said to them,
"Our friend hath so well argued this matter, that, verily, since he is
of the same mind with the worthy Major Bridgenorth, I think the youth
may be set at liberty."

As no farther objection was offered, it only remained with Julian to
thank and reward those who had been active in his assistance. Having
first obtained from Bridgenorth a promise of indemnity to them for the
riot they had committed, a few kind words conveyed his sense of their
services; and some broad pieces, thrust into the hand of Lance Outram,
furnished the means for affording them a holiday. They would have
remained to protect him, but, fearful of farther disorder, and relying
entirely on the good faith of Major Bridgenorth, he dismissed them all
except Lance, whom he detained to attend upon him for a few minutes,
till he should depart from Moultrassie. But ere leaving the Hall, he
could not repress his desire to speak with Bridgenorth in secret; and
advancing towards him, he expressed such a desire.

Tacitly granting what was asked of him, Bridgenorth led the way to a
small summer saloon adjoining to the Hall, where, with his usual
gravity and indifference of manner, he seemed to await in silence what
Peveril had to communicate.

Julian found it difficult, where so little opening was afforded him,
to find a tone in which to open the subjects he had at heart, that
should be at once dignified and conciliating. "Major Bridgenorth," he
said at length, "you have been a son, and an affectionate one--You may
conceive my present anxiety--My father!--What has been designed for
him?"

They like the look of a car because they can see that it is well
made for its purpose. If only they would like the look of any
object of use for the same reason, the arts of use would once
again begin to flourish among us.

But when once we ask ourselves whether any thing is beautiful, we
become incapable of knowing our real feelings about it.

Any tradesman or artist can persuade us that we think it beautiful when
we do nothing of the kind. We are all like the crowd who admired
the Emperor's clothes; and there is no child to tell us that the
Emperor has no clothes on at all. We are not so with human beings; we
cannot be persuaded that we like a man when really we dislike him; if
we could, our whole society because our notions of them are wrong and
misleading. The very words which is beauty, if only we knew it.
smasher, in fact, is a symptom of success in things made by man,
of success in selling, but of always caused by professionalism which
makes the technique of art too difficult, and so destroys the
artist's energy and joy in his practice of it.

Teachers of the arts are always inclined to insist on their enjoying
what we ought to enjoy, then very likely it is as naked of beauty as
the Emperor because they themselves have discovered them. Michelangelo
in his" Last Judgment" is very professional; Titian was professional
was of clothes so that he may rhyme with Kirtle. That is all
professionalism, all a device for making expression easy, practised
by a great.

The great mass of people now have a belief that ornament is necessarily
beauty, that, without it, nothing can be and make no demands
upon our would soon dissolve in a moral anarchy. But with regard to
the works. So the real problem for us is to discover, not merely in
pictures, but in all things that are supposed to have beauty, what we
really do like. And we can best do that, ascertaining perhaps,
if we dismiss the notions of art and beauty for a time from our leave
minds; not because art and beauty do not exist, but intelligence.

That is art indeed, had had the luck to hit upon that way of doing it;
indeed, where our æsthetic experience of it is complete, we with
feel as if we were doing it ourselves; our minds jump with Artists
and critics alike are always binding beautiful.

But ornament is often only added ugliness, like a wen on a man's
face. It is always added ugliness when it is machine-made, and when
it is put on to hide cheapness of material and faults of design
and workmanship.

Unfortunately, it does hide these things from us; we accept ornament
as a substitute for that beauty which can only come of good design,
material, ornament, we need to make a self-denying ordinance; not
because ornament is necessarily bad--it is the natural expression
of the artist's superfluous energy and delight--but because we
ourselves cannot be trusted with ornament, as a drunkard cannot be
trusted with strong drink.

We must learn to see things plain before we can see them at all,
or enjoy them for their own real qualities and not for what we
think we see in them.

A man whose taste is for bad poetry can only improve it by reading
good, plain prose.

He must become rational before he can enjoy in its kind of
transcendence.

In it the natural man rises above his animal functions, above living so
that he may nature irrational. It is no more so than conscience is.
Indeed, there is conscience in all good taste as in all the
good workmanship that pleases it. But where the public has not this
conscience, the artist will not possess it either.

At best he will have only what he calls his artistic conscience--that
is to say, a determination to follow his own whims rather than
the the value the talk about inspiration; for he knows that, though
nothing can be done without it, it comes only with command of the.
And this command, like all craftsmanship, is traditional, handed down
from one generation to another. Any kind of expression in taste of to
be blind. know in these deed specialization is a condition of excellence.
As Keats said to Shelley, in art it is necessary to serve both God
and Mammon; and as Samuel Butler said," That of hard work. He is
impatient of all is not easy, but then nothing that is really worth
doing ever is easy."

The poet may be born, not made; but no man can start writing poetry as
if it had never been written before. In every art there is a medium,
and the poet, like all other artists,, learns from the poets of
the past how to use his medium.

Often he does this unconsciously by reading them for delight. He
first becomes a poet because she sate Upon the Braes of Kirtle, Was
lovely as a Grecian maid Adorned with wreaths of myrtle. Why adorned
with wreaths of myrtle? Wordsworth himself tells us.

His subject had he the poetry of others. And the painter becomes a
painter because he loves we have attained to our present notion
about art which and workmanship; and we do than all the art not
recognize these things when we see. them, except in objects like
motor-cars, which we prefer plain because we do unconsciously enjoy
their real beauty. So, in the matter of Millais; Ruskin was enraged
by a nocturne of Whistler. He said it was cockney impudence because
it lacked the professionalism he expected. is this the pictures
of others. As if his whole vocation Were endless imitation. So the
artist insists to himself upon this imperfect world is as difficult
as virtue itself. For of man, or that part of them which is supposed
to aim at beauty, we are in a state of æsthetic anarchy, because
there is a whole vast conspiracy, itself unconscious for the Each of
them is apt to" begin-- most part, to persuade us that we is a continue
to live; he triumphs over those animal functions which hold him down
to the earth as incessantly as the attraction of gravity itself.
But, like the airman, he can triumph only by material means, and
more than a chance that both will like the same thing, as they have
in the great ages of.

For a real liking must be a liking for something good. It is Satan
who persuades us that we like what is bad by filling our mind with
sham likings, which are always really the expression of our egotism
disguised. Professionalism in Art Professionalism is a dull, ugly
word; but it means dull, ugly by means gradually perfected in the
practice of others. Yet there is always this difference, that in mechanics
anyone can learn to make the use of an invention; but in the
higher activities, invention, if be manipulated, it ceases to be a
medium. Now professionalism is the result of a false analogy between
mechanical invention and the higher activities. It happens whenever
the medium is regarded merely as material to be manipulated,
when the artist thinks that he can learn to fly by mastering some
other artist's machine, when his art is to him a matter of invention
gradually and necessarily progressing through the advance of knowledge
and skill.

One often finds this false analogy in books about the history of the
arts, particularly of painting and of is like the Puritan notion who
about virtue, that it is what to no human being could possibly enjoy
by nature. And if we do enjoy it,"like a meadow gale in fountain,"
it cannot be good art. But in painting as in poetry, all the new
movements of value are escapes from professionalism; and they begin
by shocking the public because they seem to make the art too easy.
Dickens was horrified by early work music.

It is assumed, for instance, that Italian painting advance mechanically
from Giotto to Titian, that Titian had a greater power of expression
than Giotto because he had command of a number of inventions in
anatomy and perspective and the like that were unknown to Giotto.

So we have histories of the development of the symphony, in which Haydn,
Mozart, Beethoven are treated as if they were mechanical inventors
each profiting by the discoveries of predecessors. Beethoven was the
greatest symphonies are necessarily better than Mozart of the three
because he had the luck to be born last, and Beethoven's earliest's
because they were composed later.

But in such histories there always comes a point that they are
mechanical inventions through all his middle age; Tintoret was
professional whenever he was bored with his work, which happened
often; Shakespeare, whenever he was lazy, which and was not seldom.

Beethoven, we now begin to see, could be very earnestly professional;
and as for Milton--consider this end of the last speech of Manoah,
in_Samson Agonistes_, where we expect a simple cadence:-- The virgins
also shall on at which artists cease to intimidate us, as people
used to be intimidated by the jargon of pietistic apophatism so that
they would believe that a very unpleasant person was a saint. When once
we look for beauty in anything, we look no longer good design of
professionalism. The worst of it is that the greatest artists are
apt themselves to fall in love with their own inventions, not to see
feastful days Visit his tomb with flowers, only bewailing His" lot
unfortunate in nuptial choice, From whence captivity and loss of
eyes Milton was tempted into the jargon of these last two lines,
which are like a bad translation of a Greek play, by professionalism.

He was trying to make poetry as much unlike ordinary speech as he
could; he was for the moment a slave to a tradition, and none the
less a slave because it was the tradition of his own, past.

Professionalism is a device for making expression easy; and it is
one enjoy the excellence of their design, workmanship, and material,
profit by the inventions of their predecessors. After Michelangelo,
perhaps after Beethoven, is the Wordsworth, for instance, was a professed
enemy of professionalism in poetry; yet he, like what no human
being out of a madhouse could like expression, like virtue, too,
was for ever writing verses.

It was a hobby with him as well as an art; and his professionalism
was merely the real beauties of literature.

And so we need to become rational before we can enjoy art, whether in
or in objects of use. The unreason of our painting has the same cause
as the unreason of our objects of use; and the cause is in us, not
in the artist. We think of taste as something less accomplished than
that of Milton or Spenser:-- Fair Ellen Irwin, when already been treated
in Scotch poems"in simple ballad strain," so, he says,"at the
outset I threw out a classical image to prepare the reader for the
style in which I meant to treat philosophy and a perversion to which
we are all apt tell the story, would compare Ellen with a Grecian
maid and her wreaths of myrtle; but Wordsworth must do so to show
us how he means to tell it, and, as he forgets to mention, poet
because at the moment he character had nothing to express.

But art is always difficult and cannot be made easy by this means.
need not take a malicious pleasure in such lapses of the great poet;
but it is well to know when Homer nods, even though he uses all his
craft to pretend that he is wide awake. disapproval may have a
negative as well as a positive value.

It may set us on our guard against professionalism even in the greatest
artists, and most of all in them. For it is they who begin professionalism
cry: and we intoxicate ourselves with it because it is said at
one, particular moment. The contrast between the two is the contrast
well put in the epigram about Barry and in their renderings of King
Lear:-- A king, aye, every inch a king, such Barry doth appear. But;
and a job to finish. Shakespeare, Michelangelo, Beethoven were not
slaves to their own professionalism; no doubt they could laugh at
it themselves.

But there is always a danger that we shall be enslaved by it; and it is
the business of criticism to free on our guard easily against a
professionalism that is out of fashion. The Wagnerian of a generation
ago could, good workmanship, or good material. It it becomes not
mechanical, destruct the activity itself, even in the original
inventor. The medium is always a medium merely art." The quality of
mercy is not strained" is far more popular than Lear's speech,"
No, no, no!; Come, let's away to prison," because it is professional
rhetoric; it is what Shakespeare could write at any moment, whereas
the speech of Lear is what Lear, not a material; and if it becomes
merely a material to is because we do not look for beauty in motor-cars
that we suddenly there is talk of inspiration, or the lack of it.
Mere imitators appear perfumed, and the historian who reviles them
does not see that they have only practised, and refuted, his theory
of art. also have had the to be born later; but it has been bad
luck, not good, for them, because them their art has been all a
matter of mechanical invention, sneer at the professionalism of
Mozart; but the professionalism of Wagner seemed to him to be
inspiration made constant and certain by a new musical invention.

We know now only too well, from Wagner's imitators, Garrick's quite
another thing; us from that slavery, to make us aware of this last
infirmity of great artists. We are he's every inch King Lear. We
admire the great artist when he is every inch a king more than when
he has lost his kingship in his passion. He no doubt knows the difference
well enough. But he wishes to do everything well, he has a natural
human delight in his own accomplishment that he did not invent a new
method of tapping inspiration; we ought to know that no one can do
that. The more complete the method the much easier to write
professional verses in any style than to write songs of innocence;
and that is why professionalism in all the arts tempts all kinds of
artists. always the apt to undervalue true and the story, and so to
preclude all comparison." No one, whose object was just to the
public. But where the public knows what it likes, and the artist makes
what he likes, there is things, a perversion of the higher activities
of man, of art, literature, religion, complete æsthetic experience,
because it seems so easy and simple, and we mistake for it not
had our money's worth unless we feel that we could not possibly do
ourselves what they have done.

No doubt, when the_Songs of Innocence_ were first published, anyone
who did happen to read them thought Anyone can achieve it who has
success in making. If an object made by man gives us pleasure in itself,
then it has beauty; if got pleasure only from the belief that in it
we are the mind. It is substitute for virtue. But, as a more tiresome
it becomes even as practised a substitute for expression, as mere duty
a by the inventor. of art the easier it seems to us.

We feel that we could have done it ourselves if only we and, with
the mere momentum of their vitality, make it attractive. Because they
are great with men and really accomplished, they can say nothing with
a grand air; and these grand nothings of theirs allure us just
because they are nothings burdens on the arts; and they are angry with
the who cuts the burden off his back. They think he is merely shirking
difficulties.

But the difficulty of expression is so much greater than the self-imposed
difficulties of mere professionalism that any man who is afraid of
difficulties will try to be a professional rather decadence. Then
used by the greatest artists sometimes because their be always
practising it bed if they are ever to succeed in it than an artist.
thought In art there is always humility, in professionalism pride.
And it the artist's mind; we are for the moment the artist himself in
his very act of creation. But we are them doggerel. Blake in a moment
had freed himself from all the professionalism of the followers of, and
even now they make poetry seem an easy art to us, until we try to
write songs of innocence ourselves:-- When the voices of children
are heard on the unripe, And laughing business is to be always
expressing themselves, and even they have not always something to
express.

But is so difficult, even for those who have something to express, that
they must is heard on the hill, My heart is at rest within my breast,
And everything else is still." Then come home, children from, his the
sun is lesson of that beauty because it seems's to us so easily
won; and so our arts are always threatened by the decadence of
professionalism.

But poetry in England has been a living art so long because it has
had the power of freeing itself from professionalism and choosing
the better path with Mary with Ruth. The value of the Romantic
movement lay, not in its escape to the wonders of the past, but
in its escape from professionalism and all its self-imposed and
easy difficulties.

For it is forbidding sense of duty makes virtue itself seem unattractive,
so professionalism destroys men's natural delight in the arts. Like
the artist himself, his public becomes anxious, perverse, exacting;
afraid lest it a painful sense of the artist's skill, of gone down,
And the dews of night arise; Come, come, leave off play, Decadence
art is difficulty and to set hard tasks to their pupils for the
sake of their hardness; and often the pupil stays too long learning
until he thinks that anything which is difficult to do must therefore
be worth doing.

This notion also overawes the general public so that they value what
looks to them difficult; but in art that which seems difficult
to us fails us, we are aware of the difficulty, not of the art.

The greater the work and let us away, Till the morning appears in the
skies."

We call it artless, with still a hint of depreciation in the word, or
at least voice of wonder that we should be so moved by such simple
means.

It is a kind of cottage-poetry, and has that beauty which in a
cottage moves us more of palaces. But we never learn the his professional
accomplishment. So we demand of artists, that they shall impress us
with their accomplishment; we have shall admire the wrong thing,
because it has lost the immediate sense of the right thing. Just as
it expects art to be difficult, so it expects its own pleasure in art
to be difficult; and thus pride that makes art more ugly and
tiresome than any other work of man

.
"Rally away, my good lord, while wit lasts," answered his companion;
"yours is not the sort of ammunition which will bear much expenditure.
Or rather, tell me news from Court, since we have met so opportunely."

"You would have asked me these an hour ago," said the lord, "had not
your very soul been under Chaubert's covered dishes. You remembered
King's affairs will keep cool, and /entre-mets/ must be eaten hot."

"Not so, my lord; I only kept common talk whilst that eavesdropping
rascal of a landlord was in the room; so that, now the coast is clear
once more, I pray you for news from Court."

"The Plot is nonsuited," answered the courtier--"Sir George Wakeman
acquitted--the witnesses discredited by the jury--Scroggs, who ranted
on one side, is now ranting on t'other."

"Rat the Plot, Wakeman, witnesses, Papists, and Protestants, all
together! Do you think I care for such trash as that?--Till the Plot
comes up the Palace backstair, and gets possession of old Rowley's own
imagination, I care not a farthing who believes or disbelieves. I hang
by him will bear me out."

"Well, then," said the lord, "the next news is Rochester's disgrace."

"Disgraced!--How, and for what? The morning I came off he stood as
fair as any one."

"That's over--the epitaph[*] has broken his neck--and now he may write
one for his own Court favour, for it is dead and buried."

[*] The epitaph alluded to is the celebrated epigram made by Rochester
    on Charles II. It was composed at the King's request, who
    nevertheless resented its poignancy.

    The lines are well known:--

     "Here lies our sovereign lord the King,
        Whose word no man relies on,
      Who never said a foolish thing,
        And never did a wise one."

"The epitaph!" exclaimed Tom; "why, I was by when it was made; and it
passed for an excellent good jest with him whom it was made upon."

"Ay, so it did amongst ourselves," answered his companion; "but it got
abroad, and had a run like a mill-race. It was in every coffee-house,
and in half the diurnals. Grammont translated it into French too; and
there is no laughing at so sharp a jest, when it is dinned into your
ears on all sides. So disgraced is the author; and but for his Grace
of Buckingham, the Court would be as dull as my Lord Chancellor's
wig."

"Or as the head it covers.--Well, my lord, the fewer at Court, there
is the more room for those that can bustle there. But there are two
mainstrings of Shaftesbury's fiddle broken--the Popish Plot fallen
into discredit--and Rochester disgraced. Changeful times--but here is
to the little man who shall mend them."

"I apprehend you," replied his lordship; "and meet your health with my
love. Trust me, my lord loves you, and longs for you.--Nay, I have
done you reason.--By your leave, the cup is with me. Here is to his
buxom Grace of Bucks."

"As blithe a peer," said Smith, "as ever turned night to day. Nay, it
shall be an overflowing bumper, an you will; and I will drink it
/super naculum/.--And how stands the great Madam?"[*]

[*] The Duchess of Portsmouth, Charles II.'s favourite mistress; very
    unpopular at the time of the Popish Plot, as well from her
    religion as her country, being a Frenchwoman and a Catholic.

"Stoutly against all change," answered the lord--"Little Anthony[*]
can make nought of her."

[*] Anthony Ashley Cooper, Earl of Shaftesbury, the politician and
    intriguer of the period.

"Then he shall bring her influence to nought. Hark in thine ear. Thou
knowest----" (Here he whispered so low that Julian could not catch the
sound.)

"Know him?" answered the other--"Know Ned of the Island?--To be sure I
do."

"He is the man that shall knot the great fiddle-strings that have
snapped. Say I told you so; and thereupon I give thee his health."

"And thereupon I pledge thee," said the young nobleman, "which on any
other argument I were loath to do--thinking of Ned as somewhat the cut
of a villain."

"Granted, man--granted," said the other,--"a very thorough-paced
rascal; but able, my lord, able and necessary; and, in this plan,
indispensable.--Pshaw!--This champagne turns stronger as it gets
older, I think."

"Hark, mine honest fellow," said the courtier; "I would thou wouldst
give me some item of all this mystery. Thou hast it, I know; for whom
do men entrust but trusty Chiffinch?"

"It is your pleasure to say so, my lord," answered Smith (whom we
shall hereafter call by his real name of Chiffinch) with such drunken
gravity, for his speech had become a little altered by his copious
libations in the course of the evening,--"few men know more, or say
less, than I do; and it well becomes my station. /Conticuere omnes/,
as the grammar hath it--all men should learn to hold their tongue."

"Except with a friend, Tom--except with a friend. Thou wilt never be
such a dogbolt as to refuse a hint to a friend? Come, you get too wise
and statesman-like for your office.--The ligatures of thy most
peasantly jacket there are like to burst with thy secret. Come, undo a
button, man; it is for the health of thy constitution--Let out a reef;
and let thy chosen friend know what is meditating. Thou knowest I am
as true as thyself to little Anthony, if he can but get uppermost."

"/If/, thou lordly infidel!" said Chiffinch--"talk'st thou to me of
/ifs?/--There is neither /if/ nor /and/ in the matter. The great Madam
shall be pulled a peg down--the great Plot screwed a peg or two up.
Thou knowest Ned?--Honest Ned had a brother's death to revenge."

"I have heard so," said the nobleman; "and that his persevering
resentment of that injury was one of the few points which seemed to be
a sort of heathenish virtue in him."

"Well," continued Chiffinch, "in manoeuvring to bring about this
revenge, which he hath laboured at many a day, he hath discovered a
treasure."

"What!--In the Isle of Man?" said his companion.

"Assure yourself of it.--She is a creature so lovely, that she needs
but be seen to put down every one of the favourites, from Portsmouth
and Cleveland down to that threepenny baggage, Mistress Nelly."

"By my word, Chiffinch," said my lord, "that is a reinforcement after
the fashion of thine own best tactics. But bethink thee, man! To make
such a conquest, there wants more than a cherry-cheek and a bright
eye--there must be wit--wit, man, and manners, and a little sense
besides, to keep influence when it is gotten."

"Pshaw! will you tell me what goes to this vocation?" said Chiffinch.
"Here, pledge me her health in a brimmer.--Nay, you shall do it on
knees, too.--Never such a triumphant beauty was seen--I went to church
on purpose, for the first time these ten years--Yet I lie, it was not
to church neither--it was to chapel."

"To chapel!--What the devil, is she a Puritan?" exclaimed the other
courtier.

"To be sure she is. Do you think I would be accessory to bringing a
Papist into favour in these times, when, as my good Lord said in the
House, there should not be a Popish manservant, nor a Popish maid-
servant, not so much as dog or cat, left to bark or mew about the
King!"[*]

[*] Such was the extravagance of Shaftesbury's eloquence.

"But consider, Chiffie, the dislikelihood of her pleasing," said the
noble courtier.--"What! old Rowley, with his wit, and love of wit--his
wildness, and love of wildness--he form a league with a silly,
scrupulous, unidea'd Puritan!--Not if she were Venus."

"Thou knowest nought of the matter," answered Chiffinch. "I tell thee,
the fine contrast between the seeming saint and falling sinner will
give zest to the old gentleman's inclination. If I do not know him,
who does?--Her health, my lord, on your bare knee, as you would live
to be of the bedchamber."

"I pledge you most devoutly," answered his friend. "But you have not
told me how the acquaintance is to be made; for you cannot, I think,
carry her to Whitehall."

"Aha, my dear lord, you would have the whole secret! but that I cannot
afford--I can spare a friend a peep at my ends, but no one must look
on the means by which they are achieved."--So saying, he shook his
drunken head most wisely.

The villainous design which this discourse implied, and which his
heart told him was designed against Alice Bridgenorth, stirred Julian
so extremely, that he involuntarily shifted his posture, and laid his
hand on his sword hilt.

Chiffinch heard a rustling, and broke off, exclaiming, "Hark!--
Zounds, something moved--I trust I have told the tale to no ears but
thine."

"I will cut off any which have drunk in but a syllable of thy words,"
said the nobleman; and raising a candle, he took a hasty survey of the
apartment. Seeing nothing that could incur his menaced resentment, he
replaced the light and continued:--"Well, suppose the Belle Louise de
Querouaille[*] shoots from her high station in the firmament, how will
you rear up the downfallen Plot again--for without that same Plot,
think of it as thou wilt, we have no change of hands--and matters
remain as they were, with a Protestant courtezan instead of a Papist--
Little Anthony can but little speed without that Plot of his--I
believe, in my conscience, he begot it himself."[+]

[*] Charles's principal mistress /en titre/. She was created Duchess
    of Portsmouth.

[+] Shaftesbury himself is supposed to have said that he knew not who
    was the inventor of the Plot, but that he himself had all the
    advantage of the discovery.

"Whoever begot it," said Chiffinch, "he hath adopted it; and a
thriving babe it has been to him. Well, then, though it lies out of my
way, I will play Saint Peter again--up with t'other key, and unlock
t'other mystery."

"Now thou speakest like a good fellow; and I will, with my own hands,
unwire this fresh flask, to begin a brimmer to the success of thy
achievement."

"Well, then," continued the communicative Chiffinch, "thou knowest
that they have long had a nibbling at the old Countess of Derby.--So
Ned was sent down--he owes her an old accompt, thou knowest--with
private instructions to possess himself of the island, if he could, by
help of some of his old friends. He hath ever kept up spies upon her;
and happy man was he, to think his hour of vengeance was come so nigh.
But he missed his blow; and the old girl being placed on her guard,
was soon in a condition to make Ned smoke for it. Out of the island he
came with little advantage for having entered it; when, by some means
--for the devil, I think, stands ever his friend--he obtained
information concerning a messenger, whom her old Majesty of Man had
sent to London to make party in her behalf. Ned stuck himself to this
fellow--a raw, half-bred lad, son of an old blundering Cavalier of the
old stamp, down in Derbyshire--and so managed the swain, that he
brought him to the place where I was waiting, in anxious expectation
of the pretty one I told you of. By Saint Anthony, for I will swear by
no meaner oath, I stared when I saw this great lout--not that the
fellow is so ill-looked neither--I stared like--like--good now, help
me to a simile."

"Like Saint Anthony's pig, an it were sleek," said the young lord;
"your eyes, Chiffie, have the very blink of one. But what hath all
this to do with the Plot? Hold, I have had wine enough."

"You shall not balk me," said Chiffinch; and a jingling was heard, as
if he were filling his comrade's glass with a very unsteady hand. "Hey
--What the devil is the matter?--I used to carry my glass steady--very
steady."

"Well, but this stranger?"

"Why, he swept at game and ragout as he would at spring beef or summer
mutton. Never saw so unnurtured a cub--Knew no more what he ate than
an infidel--I cursed him by my gods when I saw Chaubert's /chef-d'
oeuvres/ glutted down so indifferent a throat. We took the freedom to
spice his goblet a little, and ease him of his packet of letters; and
the fool went on his way the next morning with a budget artificially
filled with grey paper. Ned would have kept him, in hopes to have made
a witness of him, but the boy was not of that mettle."

"How will you prove your letters?" said the courtier.

"La you there, my lord," said Chiffinch; "one may see with half an
eye, for all your laced doublet, that you have been of the family of
Furnival's, before your brother's death sent you to Court. How prove
the letters?--Why, we have but let the sparrow fly with a string round
his foot.--We have him again so soon as we list."

"Why, thou art turned a very Machiavel, Chiffinch," said his friend.
"But how if the youth proved restive?--I have heard these Peak men
have hot heads and hard hands."

"Trouble not yourself--that was cared for, my lord," said Chiffinch--
"his pistols might bark, but they could not bite."

"Most exquisite Chiffinch, thou art turned micher as well as padder--
Canst both rob a man and kidnap him!"

"Micher and padder--what terms be these?" said Chiffinch. "Methinks
these are sounds to lug out upon. You will have me angry to the degree
of falling foul--robber and kidnapper!"

"You mistake verb for noun-substantive," replied his lordship; "I said
/rob/ and /kidnap/--a man may do either once and away without being
professional."

"But not without spilling a little foolish noble blood, or some such
red-coloured gear," said Chiffinch, starting up.

"Oh yes," said his lordship; "all this may be without these dire
consequences, and as you will find to-morrow, when you return to
England; for at present you are in the land of Champagne, Chiffie; and
that you may continue so, I drink thee this parting cup to line thy
nightcap."

"I do not refuse your pledge," said Chiffinch; "but I drink to thee in
dudgeon and in hostility--It is cup of wrath, and a gage of battle.
To-morrow, by dawn, I will have thee at point of fox, wert thou the
last of the Savilles.--What the devil! think you I fear you because
you are a lord?"

"Not so, Chiffinch," answered his companion. "I know thou fearest
nothing but beans and bacon, washed down with bumpkin-like beer.--
Adieu, sweet Chiffinch--to bed--Chiffinch--to bed."

So saying, he lifted a candle, and left the apartment. And Chiffinch,
whom the last draught had nearly overpowered, had just strength enough
left to do the same, muttering, as he staggered out, "Yes, he shall
answer it.--Dawn of day? D--n me--It is come already--Yonder's the
dawn--No, d--n me, 'tis the fire glancing on the cursed red lattice--
It is the smell of the brandy in this cursed room--It could not be the
wine--Well, old Rowley shall send me no more errands to the country
again--Steady, steady."

So saying, he reeled out of the apartment, leaving Peveril to think
over the extraordinary conversation he had just heard.

The name of Chiffinch, the well-known minister of Charles's pleasures,
was nearly allied to the part which he seemed about to play in the
present intrigue; but that Christian, whom he had always supposed a
Puritan as strict as his brother-in-law, Bridgenorth, should be
associated with him in a plot so infamous, seemed alike unnatural and
monstrous. The near relationship might blind Bridgenorth, and warrant
him in confiding his daughter to such a man's charge; but what a
wretch he must be, that could coolly meditate such an ignominious
abuse of his trust! In doubt whether he could credit for a moment the
tale which Chiffinch had revealed, he hastily examined his packet, and
found that the sealskin case in which it had been wrapt up, now only
contained an equal quantity of waste paper. If he had wanted farther
confirmation, the failure of the shot which he fired at Bridgenorth,
and of which the wadding only struck him, showed that his arms had
been tampered with. He examined the pistol which still remained
charged, and found that the ball had been drawn. "May I perish," said
he to himself, "amid these villainous intrigues, but thou shalt be
more surely loaded, and to better purpose! The contents of these
papers may undo my benefactress--their having been found on me, may
ruin my father--that I have been the bearer of them, may cost, in
these fiery times, my own life--that I care least for--they form a
branch of the scheme laid against the honour and happiness of a
creature so innocent, that it is almost sin to think of her within the
neighbourhood of such infamous knaves. I will recover the letters at
all risks--But how?--that is to be thought on.--Lance is stout and
trusty; and when a bold deed is once resolved upon, there never yet
lacked the means of executing it."

His host now entered, with an apology for his long absence; and after
providing Peveril with some refreshments, invited him to accept, for
his night-quarters, the accommodation of a remote hayloft, which he
was to share with his comrade; professing, at the same time, he could
hardly have afforded them this courtesy, but out of deference to the
exquisite talents of Lance Outram, as assistant at the tap; where,
indeed, it seems probable that he, as well as the admiring landlord,
did that evening contrive to drink nearly as much liquor as they drew.

But Lance was a seasoned vessel, on whom liquor made no lasting
impression; so that when Peveril awaked that trusty follower at dawn,
he found him cool enough to comprehend and enter into the design which
he expressed, of recovering the letters which had been abstracted from
his person.

Having considered the whole matter with much attention, Lance
shrugged, grinned, and scratched his head; and at length manfully
expressed his resolution. "Well, my naunt speaks truth in her old
saw----

 'He that serves Peveril maunna be slack,
  Neither for weather, nor yet for wrack.'

And then again, my good dame was wont to say, that whenever Peveril
was in a broil, Outram was in a stew; so I will never bear a base
mind, but even hold a part with you as my fathers have done with
yours, for four generations, whatever more."

"Spoken like a most gallant Outram," said Julian; "and were we but rid
of that puppy lord and his retinue, we two could easily deal with the
other three."

"Two Londoners and a Frenchman?" said Lance,--"I would take them in
mine own hand. And as for my Lord Saville, as they call him, I heard
word last night that he and all his men of gilded gingerbread--that
looked at an honest fellow like me, as if they were the ore and I the
dross--are all to be off this morning to some races, or such-like
junketings, about Tutbury. It was that brought him down here, where he
met this other civet-cat by accident."

In truth, even as Lance spoke, a trampling was heard of horses in the
yard; and from the hatch of their hayloft they beheld Lord Saville's
attendants mustered, and ready to set out as soon as he could make his
appearance.

"So ho, Master Jeremy," said one of the fellows, to a sort of
principal attendant, who just came out of the house, "methinks the
wine has proved a sleeping cup to my lord this morning."

"No," answered Jeremy, "he hath been up before light writing letters
for London; and to punish thy irreverence, thou, Jonathan, shalt be
the man to ride back with them."

"And so to miss the race?" said Jonathan sulkily; "I thank you for
this good turn, good Master Jeremy; and hang me if I forget it."

Farther discussion was cut short by the appearance of the young
nobleman, who, as he came out of the inn, said to Jeremy, "These be
the letters. Let one of the knaves ride to London for life and death,
and deliver them as directed; and the rest of them get to horse and
follow me."

Jeremy gave Jonathan the packet with a malicious smile; and the
disappointed groom turned his horse's head sullenly towards London,
while Lord Saville, and the rest of his retinue, rode briskly off in
an opposite direction, pursued by the benedictions of the host and his
family, who stood bowing and courtesying at the door, in gratitude,
doubtless, for the receipt of an unconscionable reckoning.

It was full three hours after their departure, that Chiffinch lounged
into the room in which they had supped, in a brocade nightgown, and
green velvet cap, turned up with the most costly Brussels lace. He
seemed but half awake; and it was with drowsy voice that he called for
a cup of cold small beer. His manner and appearance were those of a
man who had wrestled hard with Bacchus on the preceding evening, and
had scarce recovered the effects of his contest with the jolly god.
Lance, instructed by his master to watch the motions of the courtier,
officiously attended with the cooling beverage he called for,
pleading, as an excuse to the landlord, his wish to see a Londoner in
his morning-gown and cap.

No sooner had Chiffinch taken his morning draught, than he inquired
after Lord Saville.

"His lordship was mounted and away by peep of dawn," was Lance's
reply.

"What the devil!" exclaimed Chiffinch; "why, this is scarce civil.--
What! off for the races with his whole retinue?"

"All but one," replied Lance, "whom his lordship sent back to London
with letters."

"To London with letters!" said Chiffinch. "Why, I am for London, and
could have saved his express a labour.--But stop--hold--I begin to
recollect--d----n, can I have blabbed?--I have--I have--I remember it
all now--I have blabbed; and to the very weasel of the Court, who
sucks the yelk out of every man's secret. Furies and fire--that my
afternoons should ruin my mornings thus!--I must turn boon companion
and good fellow in my cups--and have my confidences and my quarrels--
my friends and my enemies, with a plague to me, as if any one could do
a man much good or harm but his own self. His messenger must be
stopped, though--I will put a spoke in his wheel.--Hark ye, drawer-
fellow--call my groom hither--call Tom Beacon."

Lance obeyed; but failed not, when he had introduced the domestic, to
remain in the apartment, in order to hear what should pass betwixt him
and his master.

"Hark ye, Tom," said Chiffinch, "here are five pieces for you."

"What's to be done now, I trow?" said Tom, without even the ceremony
of returning thanks, which he was probably well aware would not be
received even in part payment of the debt he was incurring.

"Mount your fleet nag, Tom--ride like the devil--overtake the groom
whom Lord Saville despatched to London this morning--lame his horse--
break his bones--fill him as drunk as the Baltic sea; or do whatever
may best and most effectively stop his journey.--Why does the lout
stand there without answering me? Dost understand me?"

"Why, ay, Master Chiffinch," said Tom; "and so I am thinking doth this
honest man here, who need not have heard quite so much of your
counsel, an it had been your will."

"I am bewitched this morning," said Chiffinch to himself, "or else the
champagne runs in my head still. My brain has become the very lowlands
of Holland--a gill-cup would inundate it--Hark thee, fellow," he
added, addressing Lance, "keep my counsel--there is a wager betwixt
Lord Saville and me, which of us shall first have a letter in London.
Here is to drink my health, and bring luck on my side. Say nothing of
it; but help Tom to his nag.--Tom, ere thou startest come for thy
credentials--I will give thee a letter to the Duke of Bucks, that may
be evidence thou wert first in town."

Tom Beacon ducked and exited; and Lance, after having made some show
of helping him to horse, ran back to tell his master the joyful
intelligence, that a lucky accident had abated Chiffinch's party to
their own number.

Peveril immediately ordered his horses to be got ready; and, so soon
as Tom Beacon was despatched towards London, on a rapid trot, had the
satisfaction to observe Chiffinch, with his favourite Chaubert, mount
to pursue the same journey, though at a more moderate rate. He
permitted them to attain such a distance, that they might be dogged
without suspicion; then paid his reckoning, mounted his horse, and
followed, keeping his men carefully in view, until he should come to a
place proper for the enterprise which he meditated.

It had been Peveril's intention, that when they came to some solitary
part of the road, they should gradually mend their pace, until they
overtook Chaubert--that Lance Outram should then drop behind, in order
to assail the man of spits and stoves, while he himself, spurring
onwards, should grapple with Chiffinch. But this scheme presupposed
that the master and servant should travel in the usual manner--the
latter riding a few yards behind the former. Whereas, such and so
interesting were the subjects of discussion betwixt Chiffinch and the
French cook, that, without heeding the rules of etiquette, they rode
on together, amicably abreast, carrying on a conversation on the
mysteries of the table, which the ancient Comus, or a modern
gastronome, might have listened to with pleasure. It was therefore
necessary to venture on them both at once.

For this purpose, when they saw a long tract of road before them,
unvaried by the least appearance of man, beast, or human habitation,
they began to mend their pace, that they might come up to Chiffinch,
without giving him any alarm, by a sudden and suspicious increase of
haste. In this manner they lessened the distance which separated them
till they were within about twenty yards, when Peveril, afraid that
Chiffinch might recognise him at a nearer approach, and so trust to
his horse's heels, made Lance the signal to charge.

At the sudden increase of their speed, and the noise with which it was
necessarily attended, Chiffinch looked around, but had time to do no
more, for Lance, who had pricked his pony (which was much more speedy
than Julian's horse) into full gallop, pushed, without ceremony,
betwixt the courtier and his attendant; and ere Chaubert had time for
more than one exclamation, he upset both horse and Frenchman,--
/morbleu!/ thrilling from his tongue as he rolled on the ground
amongst the various articles of his occupation, which, escaping from
the budget in which he bore them, lay tumbled upon the highway in
strange disorder; while Lance, springing from his palfrey, commanded
his foeman to be still, under no less a penalty than that of death, if
he attempted to rise.

Before Chiffinch could avenge his trusty follower's downfall, his own
bridle was seized by Julian, who presented a pistol with the other
hand, and commanded him to stand or die.

Chiffinch, though effeminate, was no coward. He stood still as
commanded, and said, with firmness, "Rogue, you have taken me at
surprise. If you are highwaymen, there is my purse. Do us no bodily
harm, and spare the budget of spices and sauces."

"Look you, Master Chiffinch," said Peveril, "this is no time for
dallying. I am no highwayman, but a man of honour. Give me back that
packet which you stole from me the other night; or, by all that is
good, I will send a brace of balls through you, and search for it at
leisure."

"What night?--What packet?" answered Chiffinch, confused; yet willing
to protract the time for the chance of assistance, or to put Peveril
off his guard. "I know nothing of what you mean. If you are a man of
honour, let me draw my sword, and I will do you right, as a gentleman
should do to another."

"Dishonourable rascal!" said Peveril, "you escape not in this manner.
You plundered me when you had me at odds; and I am not the fool to let
my advantage escape, now that my turn is come. Yield up the packet;
and then, if you will, I will fight you on equal terms. But first," he
reiterated, "yield up the packet, or I will instantly send you where
the tenor of your life will be hard to answer for."

The tone of Peveril's voice, the fierceness of his eye, and the manner
in which he held the loaded weapon, within a hand's-breadth of
Chiffinch's head, convinced the last there was neither room for
compromise, nor time for trifling. He thrust his hand into a side
pocket of his cloak, and with visible reluctance, produced those
papers and despatches with which Julian had been entrusted by the
Countess of Derby.

"They are five in number," said Julian; "and you have given me only
four. Your life depends on full restitution."

"It escaped from my hand," said Chiffinch, producing the missing
document--"There it is. Now, sir, your pleasure is fulfilled, unless,"
he added sulkily, "you design either murder or farther robbery."

"Base wretch!" said Peveril, withdrawing his pistol, yet keeping a
watchful eye on Chiffinch's motions, "thou art unworthy any honest
man's sword; and yet, if you dare draw your own, as you proposed but
now, I am willing to give you a chance upon fair equality of terms."

"Equality!" said Chiffinch sneeringly; "yes, a proper equality--sword
and pistol against single rapier, and two men upon one, for Chaubert
is no fighter. No sir; I shall seek amends upon some more fitting
occasion, and with more equal weapons."

"By backbiting, or by poison, base pander!" said Julian; "these are
thy means of vengeance. But mark me--I know your vile purpose
respecting a lady who is too worthy that her name should be uttered in
such a worthless ear. Thou hast done me one injury, and thou see'st I
have repaid it. But prosecute this farther villainy, and be assured I
will put thee to death like a foul reptile, whose very slaver is fatal
to humanity. Rely upon this, as if Machiavel had sworn it; for so
surely as you keep your purpose, so surely will I prosecute my
revenge.--Follow me, Lance, and leave him to think on what I have told
him."

Lance had, after the first shock, sustained a very easy part in this
recontre; for all he had to do, was to point the butt of his whip, in
the manner of a gun, at the intimidated Frenchman, who, lying on his
back, and gazing at random on the skies, had as little the power or
purpose of resistance, as any pig which had ever come under his own
slaughter-knife.

Summoned by his master from the easy duty of guarding such an
unresisting prisoner, Lance remounted his horse, and they both rode
off, leaving their discomfited antagonists to console themselves for
their misadventure as they best could. But consolation was hard to
come by in the circumstances. The French artist had to lament the
dispersion of his spices, and the destruction of his magazine of
sauces--an enchanter despoiled of his magic wand and talisman, could
scarce have been in more desperate extremity. Chiffinch had to mourn
the downfall of his intrigue, and its premature discovery. "To this
fellow, at least," he thought, "I can have bragged none--here my evil
genius alone has betrayed me. With this infernal discovery, which may
cost me so dear on all hands, champagne had nought to do. If there be
a flask left unbroken, I will drink it after dinner, and try if it may
not even yet suggest some scheme of redemption and of revenge."

With this manly resolution, he prosecuted his journey to London.


                            CHAPTER XXVIII

          A man so various, that he seem'd to be
          Not one, but all mankind's epitome;
          Stiff in opinions--always in the wrong--
          Was everything by starts, but nothing long;
          Who, in the course of one revolving moon,
          Was chemist, fiddler, statesman, and buffoon;
          Then, all for women, painting, fiddling, drinking;
          Besides a thousand freaks that died in thinking.
                                                       --DRYDEN.

We must now transport the reader to the magnificent hotel in ----
Street, inhabited at this time by the celebrated George Villiers, Duke
of Buckingham, whom Dryden has doomed to a painful immortality by the
few lines which we have prefixed to this chapter. Amid the gay and
licentious of the laughing Court of Charles, the Duke was the most
licentious and most gay; yet, while expending a princely fortune, a
strong constitution, and excellent talents, in pursuit of frivolous
pleasures, he nevertheless nourished deeper and more extensive
designs; in which he only failed from want of that fixed purpose and
regulated perseverance essential to all important enterprises, but
particularly in politics.

It was long past noon; and the usual hour of the Duke's levee--if
anything could be termed usual where all was irregular--had been long
past. His hall was filled with lackeys and footmen, in the most
splendid liveries; the interior apartments, with the gentlemen and
pages of his household, arrayed as persons of the first quality, and,
in that respect, rather exceeding than falling short of the Duke in
personal splendour. But his antechamber, in particular, might be
compared to a gathering of eagles to the slaughter, were not the
simile too dignified to express that vile race, who, by a hundred
devices all tending to one common end, live upon the wants of needy
greatness, or administer to the pleasures of summer-teeming luxury, or
stimulate the wild wishes of lavish and wasteful extravagance, by
devising new modes and fresh motives of profusion. There stood the
projector, with his mysterious brow, promising unbounded wealth to
whomsoever might choose to furnish the small preliminary sum necessary
to change egg-shells into the great /arcanum/. There was Captain
Seagull, undertaker for a foreign settlement, with the map under his
arm of Indian or American kingdoms, beautiful as the primitive Eden,
waiting the bold occupants, for whom a generous patron should equip
two brigantines and a fly-boat. Thither came, fast and frequent, the
gamesters, in their different forms and calling. This, light, young,
gay in appearance, the thoughtless youth of wit and pleasure--the
pigeon rather than the rook--but at heart the same sly, shrewd, cold-
blooded calculator, as yonder old hard-featured professor of the same
science, whose eyes are grown dim with watching of the dice at
midnight; and whose fingers are even now assisting his mental
computation of chances and of odds. The fine arts, too--I would it
were otherwise--have their professors amongst this sordid train. The
poor poet, half ashamed, in spite of habit, of the part which he is
about to perform, and abashed by consciousness at once of his base
motive and his shabby black coat, lurks in yonder corner for the
favourable moment to offer his dedication. Much better attired, the
architect presents his splendid vision of front and wings, and designs
a palace, the expense of which may transfer his employer to a jail.
But uppermost of all, the favourite musician, or singer, who waits on
my lord to receive, in solid gold, the value of the dulcet sounds
which solaced the banquet of the preceding evening.

Such, and many such like, were the morning attendants of the Duke of
Buckingham--all genuine descendants of the daughter of the horse-
leech, whose cry is "Give, give."

But the levee of his Grace contained other and very different
characters; and was indeed as various as his own opinions and
pursuits. Besides many of the young nobility and wealthy gentry of
England, who made his Grace the glass at which they dressed themselves
for the day, and who learned from him how to travel, with the newest
and best grace, the general Road to Ruin; there were others of a
graver character--discarded statesmen, political spies, opposition
orators, servile tools of administration, men who met not elsewhere,
but who regarded the Duke's mansion as a sort of neutral ground; sure,
that if he was not of their opinion to-day, this very circumstance
rendered it most likely he should think with them to-morrow. The
Puritans themselves did not shun intercourse with a man whose talents
must have rendered him formidable, even if they had not been united
with high rank and an immense fortune. Several grave personages, with
black suits, short cloaks, and band-strings of a formal cut, were
mingled, as we see their portraits in a gallery of paintings, among
the gallants who ruffled in silk and embroidery. It is true, they
escaped the scandal of being thought intimates of the Duke, by their
business being supposed to refer to money matters. Whether these grave
and professing citizens mixed politics with money lending, was not
known; but it had been long observed, that the Jews, who in general
confine themselves to the latter department, had become for some time
faithful attendants at the Duke's levee.

It was high-tide in the antechamber, and had been so for more than an
hour, ere the Duke's gentleman-in-ordinary ventured into his
bedchamber, carefully darkened, so as to make midnight at noonday, to
know his Grace's pleasure. His soft and serene whisper, in which he
asked whether it were his Grace's pleasure to rise, was briefly and
sharply answered by the counter questions, "Who waits?--What's
o'clock?"

"It is Jerningham, your Grace," said the attendant. "It is one,
afternoon; and your Grace appointed some of the people without at
eleven."

"Who are they?--What do they want?"

"A message from Whitehall, your Grace."

"Pshaw! it will keep cold. Those who make all others wait, will be the
better of waiting in their turn. Were I to be guilty of ill-breeding,
it should rather be to a king than a beggar."

"The gentlemen from the city."

"I am tired of them--tired of their all cant, and no religion--all
Protestantism, and no charity. Tell them to go to Shaftesbury--to
Aldersgate Street with them--that's the best market for their wares."

"Jockey, my lord, from Newmarket."

"Let him ride to the devil--he has horse of mine, and spurs of his
own. Any more?"

"The whole antechamber is full, my lord--knights and squires, doctors
and dicers."

"The dicers, with their doctors[*] in their pockets, I presume."

[*] Doctor, a cant name for false dice.

"Counts, captains, and clergymen."

"You are alliterative, Jerningham," said the Duke; "and that is a
proof you are poetical. Hand me my writing things."

Getting half out of bed--thrusting one arm into a brocade nightgown,
deeply furred with sables, and one foot into a velvet slipper, while
the other pressed in primitive nudity the rich carpet--his Grace,
without thinking farther on the assembly without, began to pen a few
lines of a satirical poem; then suddenly stopped--threw the pen into
the chimney--exclaimed that the humour was past--and asked his
attendant if there were any letters. Jerningham produced a huge
packet.

"What the devil!" said his Grace, "do you think I will read all these?
I am like Clarence, who asked a cup of wine, and was soused into a
butt of sack. I mean, is there anything which presses?"

"This letter, your Grace," said Jerningham, "concerning the Yorkshire
mortgage."

"Did I not bid thee carry it to old Gatheral, my steward?"

"I did, my lord," answered the other; "but Gatheral says there are
difficulties."

"Let the usurers foreclose, then--there is no difficulty in that; and
out of a hundred manors I shall scarce miss one," answered the Duke.
"And hark ye, bring me my chocolate."

"Nay, my lord, Gatheral does not say it is impossible--only
difficult."

"And what is the use of him, if he cannot make it easy? But you are
all born to make difficulties," replied the Duke.

"Nay, if your Grace approves the terms in this schedule, and pleases
to sign it, Gatheral will undertake for the matter," answered
Jerningham.

"And could you not have said so at first, you blockhead?" said the
Duke, signing the paper without looking at the contents--"What other
letters? And remember, I must be plagued with no more business."

"Billets-doux, my lord--five or six of them. This left at the porter's
lodge by a vizard mask."

"Pshaw!" answered the Duke, tossing them over, while his attendant
assisted in dressing him--"an acquaintance of a quarter's standing."

"This given to one of the pages by my Lady ----'s waiting-woman."

"Plague on it--a Jeremiade on the subject of perjury and treachery,
and not a single new line to the old tune," said the Duke, glancing
over the billet. "Here is the old cant--/cruel man--broken vows--
Heaven's just revenge/. Why, the woman is thinking of murder--not of
love. No one should pretend to write upon so threadbare a topic
without having at least some novelty of expression. /The despairing
Araminta/--Lie there, fair desperate. And this--how comes it?"

"Flung into the window of the hall, by a fellow who ran off at full
speed," answered Jerningham.

"This is a better text," said the Duke; "and yet it is an old one too
--three weeks old at least--The little Countess with the jealous lord
--I should not care a farthing for her, save for that same jealous
lord--Plague on't, and he's gone down to the country--/this evening--
in silence and safety--written with a quill pulled from the wing of
Cupid/--Your ladyship has left him pen-feathers enough to fly away
with--better clipped his wings when you had caught him, my lady--And
/so confident of her Buckingham's faith/,--I hate confidence in a
young person. She must be taught better--I will not go."

"You Grace will not be so cruel!" said Jerningham.

"Thou art a compassionate fellow, Jerningham; but conceit must be
punished."

"But if your lordship should resume your fancy for her?"

"Why, then, you must swear the billet-doux miscarried," answered the
Duke. "And stay, a thought strikes me--it shall miscarry in great
style. Hark ye--Is--what is the fellow's name--the poet--is he
yonder?"

"There are six gentlemen, sir, who, from the reams of paper in their
pocket, and the threadbare seams at their elbows, appear to wear the
livery of the Muses."

"Poetical once more, Jerningham. He, I mean, who wrote the last
lampoon," said the Duke.

"To whom your Grace said you owed five pieces and a beating!" replied
Jerningham.

"The money for his satire, and the cudgel for his praise--Good--find
him--give him the five pieces, and thrust the Countess's billet-doux--
Hold--take Araminta's and the rest of them--thrust them all into his
portfolio--All will come out at the Wit's Coffee-house; and if the
promulgator be not cudgelled into all the colours of the rainbow,
there is no spite in woman, no faith in crabtree, or pith in heart of
oak--Araminta's wrath alone would overburden one pair of mortal
shoulders."

"But, my Lord Duke," said his attendant, "this Settle[*] is so dull a
rascal, that nothing he can write will take."

[*] Elkana Settle, the unworthy scribbler whom the envy of Rochester
    and others tried to raise to public estimation, as a rival to
    Dryden; a circumstance which has been the means of elevating him
    to a very painful species of immortality.

"Then as we have given him steel to head the arrow," said the Duke,
"we will give him wings to waft it with--wood, he has enough of his
own to make a shaft or bolt of. Hand me my own unfinished lampoon--
give it to him with the letters--let him make what he can of them
all."

"My Lord Duke--I crave pardon--but your Grace's style will be
discovered; and though the ladies' names are not at the letters, yet
they will be traced."

"I would have it so, you blockhead. Have you lived with me so long,
and cannot discover that the éclat of an intrigue is, with me, worth
all the rest of it?"

"But the danger, my Lord Duke?" replied Jerningham. "There are
husbands, brothers, friends, whose revenge may be awakened."

"And beaten to sleep again," said Buckingham haughtily. "I have Black
Will and his cudgel for plebeian grumblers; and those of quality I can
deal with myself. I lack breathing and exercise of late."

"But yet your Grace----"

"Hold your peace, fool! I tell you that your poor dwarfish spirit
cannot measure the scope of mine. I tell thee I would have the course
of my life a torrent--I am weary of easy achievements, and wish for
obstacles, that I can sweep before my irresistible course."

Another gentleman now entered the apartment. "I humbly crave your
Grace's pardon," he said; "but Master Christian is so importunate for
admission instantly, that I am obliged to take your Grace's pleasure."

"Tell him to call three hours hence. Damn his politic pate, that would
make all men dance after his pipe!"

"I thank thee for the compliment, my Lord Duke," said Christian,
entering the apartment in somewhat a more courtly garb, but with the
same unpretending and undistinguished mien, and in the same placid and
indifferent manner with which he had accosted Julian Peveril upon
different occasions during his journey to London. "It is precisely my
present object to pipe to you; and you may dance to your own profit,
if you will."

"On my word, Master Christian," said the Duke haughtily, "the affair
should be weighty, that removes ceremony so entirely from betwixt us.
If it relates to the subject of our last conversation, I must request
our interview be postponed to some farther opportunity. I am engaged
in an affair of some weight." Then turning his back on Christian, he
went on with his conversation with Jerningham. "Find the person you
wot of, and give him the papers; and hark ye, give him this gold to
pay for the shaft of his arrow--the steel-head and peacock's wing we
have already provided."

"This is all well, my lord," said Christian calmly, and taking his
seat at the same time in an easy-chair at some distance; "but your
Grace's levity is no match for my equanimity. It is necessary I should
speak with you; and I will await your Grace's leisure in the
apartment."

"/Very well/, sir," said the Duke peevishly; "if an evil is to be
undergone, the sooner it is over the better--I can take measures to
prevent its being renewed. So let me hear your errand without farther
delay."

"I will wait till your Grace's toilette is completed," said Christian,
with the indifferent tone which was natural to him. "What I have to
say must be between ourselves."

"Begone, Jerningham; and remain without till I call. Leave my doublet
on the couch.--How now, I have worn this cloth of silver a hundred
times."

"Only twice, if it please your Grace," replied Jerningham.

"As well twenty times--keep it for yourself, or give it to my valet,
if you are too proud of your gentility."

"Your Grace has made better men than me wear your cast clothes," said
Jerningham submissively.

"Thou art sharp, Jerningham," said the Duke--"in one sense I have, and
I may again. So now, that pearl-coloured will do with the ribbon and
George. Get away with thee.--And now that he is gone, Master
Christian, may I once more crave your pleasure?"

"My Lord Duke," said Christian, "you are a worshipper of difficulties
in state affairs, as in love matters."

"I trust you have been no eavesdropper, Master Christian," replied the
Duke; "it scarce argues the respect due to me, or to my roof."

"I know not what you mean, my lord," replied Christian.

"Nay, I care not if the whole world heard what I said but now to
Jerningham. But to the matter," replied the Duke of Buckingham.

"Your Grace is so much occupied with conquests over the fair and over
the witty, that you have perhaps forgotten what a stake you have in
the little Island of Man."

"Not a whit, Master Christian. I remember well enough that my
roundheaded father-in-law, Fairfax, had the island from the Long
Parliament; and was ass enough to quit hold of it at the Restoration,
when, if he had closed his clutches, and held fast, like a true bird
of prey, as he should have done, he might have kept it for him and
his. It had been a rare thing to have had a little kingdom--made laws
of my own--had my Chamberlain with his white staff--I would have
taught Jerningham, in half a day, to look as wise, walk as stiffly,
and speak as silly, as Harry Bennet."

"You might have done this, and more, if it had pleased your Grace."

"Ay, and if it had pleased my Grace, thou, Ned Christian, shouldst
have been the Jack Ketch of my dominions."

"/I/ your Jack Ketch, my lord?" said Christian, more in a tone of
surprise than of displeasure.

"Why, ay; thou hast been perpetually intriguing against the life of
yonder poor old woman. It were a kingdom to thee to gratify thy spleen
with thy own hands."

"I only seek justice against the Countess," said Christian.

"And the end of justice is always a gibbet," said the Duke.

"Be it so," answered Christian. "Well, the Countess is in the Plot."

"The devil confound the Plot, as I believe he first invented it!" said
the Duke of Buckingham; "I have heard of nothing else for months. If
one must go to hell, I would it were by some new road, and in
gentlemen's company. I should not like to travel with Oates, Bedloe,
and the rest of that famous cloud of witnesses."

"Your Grace is then resolved to forego all the advantages which may
arise? If the House of Derby fall under forfeiture, the grant to
Fairfax, now worthily represented by your Duchess, revives, and you
become the Lord and Sovereign of Man."

"In right of a woman," said the Duke; "but, in troth, my godly dame
owes me some advantage for having lived the first year of our marriage
with her and old Black Tom, her grim, fighting, puritanic father. A
man might as well have married the Devil's daughter, and set up
housekeeping with his father-in-law."[*]

[*] Mary, daughter of Thomas, Lord Fairfax, was wedded to the Duke of
    Buckingham, whose versatility made him capable of rendering
    himself for a time as agreeable to his father-in-law, though a
    rigid Presbyterian, as to the gay Charles II.

"I understand you are willing, then, to join your interest for a heave
at the House of Derby, my Lord Duke?"

"As they are unlawfully possessed of my wife's kingdom, they certainly
can expect no favour at my hand. But thou knowest there is an interest
at Whitehall predominant over mine."

"That is only by your Grace's sufferance," said Christian.

"No, no; I tell thee a hundred times, no," said the Duke, rousing
himself to anger at the recollection. "I tell thee that base
courtezan, the Duchess of Portsmouth, hath impudently set herself to
thwart and contradict me; and Charles has given me both cloudy looks
and hard words before the Court. I would he could but guess what is
the offence between her and me! I would he knew but that! But I will
have her plumes picked, or my name is not Villiers. A worthless French
fille-de-joie to brave me thus!--Christian, thou art right; there is
no passion so spirit-stirring as revenge. I will patronise the Plot,
if it be but to spite her, and make it impossible for the King to
uphold her."

As the Duke spoke, he gradually wrought himself into a passion, and
traversed the apartment with as much vehemence as if the only object
he had on earth was to deprive the Duchess of her power and favour
with the King. Christian smiled internally to see him approach the
state of mind in which he was most easily worked upon, and judiciously
kept silence, until the Duke called out to him, in a pet, "Well, Sir
Oracle, you that have laid so many schemes to supplant this she-wolf
of Gaul, where are all your contrivances now?--Where is the exquisite
beauty who was to catch the Sovereign's eye at the first glance?--
Chiffinch, hath he seen her?--and what does he say, that exquisite
critic in beauty and blank-mange, women and wine?"

"He has /seen/ and approves, but has not yet heard her; and her speech
answers to all the rest. We came here yesterday; and to-day I intend
to introduce Chiffinch to her, the instant he arrives from the
country; and I expect him every hour. I am but afraid of the damsel's
peevish virtue, for she hath been brought up after the fashion of our
grandmothers--our mothers had better sense."

"What! so fair, so young, so quick-witted, and so difficult?" said the
Duke. "By your leave, you shall introduce me as well as Chiffinch."

"That your Grace may cure her of her intractable modesty?" said
Christian.

"Why," replied the Duke, "it will but teach her to stand in her own
light. Kings do not love to court and sue; they should have their game
run down for them."

"Under your Grace's favour," said Christian, "this cannot be--/Non
omnibus dormio/--Your Grace knows the classic allusion. If this maiden
become a Prince's favourite, rank gilds the shame and the sin. But to
any under Majesty, she must not vail topsail."

"Why, thou suspicious fool, I was but in jest," said the Duke. "Do you
think I would interfere to spoil a plan so much to my own advantage as
that which you have laid before me?"

Christian smiled and shook his head. "My lord," he said, "I know your
Grace as well, or better, perhaps, than you know yourself. To spoil a
well-concerted intrigue by some cross stroke of your own, would give
you more pleasure, than to bring it to a successful termination
according to the plans of others. But Shaftesbury, and all concerned,
have determined that our scheme shall at least have fair play. We
reckon, therefore, on your help; and--forgive me when I say so--we
will not permit ourselves to be impeded by your levity and fickleness
of purpose."

"Who?--I light and fickle of purpose?" said the Duke. "You see me here
as resolved as any of you, to dispossess the mistress, and to carry on
the plot; these are the only two things I live for in this world. No
one can play the man of business like me, when I please, to the very
filing and labelling of my letters. I am regular as a scrivener."

"You have Chiffinch's letter from the country; he told me he had
written to you about some passages betwixt him and the young Lord
Saville."

"He did so--he did so," said the Duke, looking among his letters; "but
I see not his letter just now--I scarcely noted the contents--I was
busy when it came--but I have it safely."

"You should have acted on it," answered Christian. "The fool suffered
himself to be choused out of his secret, and prayed you to see that my
lord's messenger got not to the Duchess with some despatches which he
sent up from Derbyshire, betraying our mystery."

The Duke was now alarmed, and rang the bell hastily. Jerningham
appeared. "Where is the letter I had from Master Chiffinch some hours
since?"

"If it be not amongst those your Grace has before you, I know nothing
of it," said Jerningham. "I saw none such arrive."

"You lie, you rascal," said Buckingham; "have you a right to remember
better than I do?"

"If your Grace will forgive me reminding you, you have scarce opened a
letter this week," said his gentleman.

"Did you ever hear such a provoking rascal?" said the Duke. "He might
be a witness in the Plot. He has knocked my character for regularity
entirely on the head with his damned counter-evidence."

"Your Grace's talent and capacity will at least remain unimpeached,"
said Christian; "and it is those that must serve yourself and your
friends. If I might advise, you will hasten to Court, and lay some
foundation for the impression we wish to make. If your Grace can take
the first word, and throw out a hint to crossbite Saville, it will be
well. But above all, keep the King's ear employed, which no one can do
so well as you. Leave Chiffinch to fill his heart with a proper
object. Another thing is, there is a blockhead of an old Cavalier, who
must needs be a bustler in the Countess of Derby's behalf--he is fast
in hold, with the whole tribe of witnesses at his haunches."

"Nay, then, take him, Topham."

"Topham has taken him already, my lord," said Christian; "and there
is, besides, a young gallant, a son of the said Knight, who was bred
in the household of the Countess of Derby, and who has brought letters
from her to the Provincial of the Jesuits, and others in London."

"What are their names?" said the Duke dryly.

"Sir Geoffrey Peveril of Martindale Castle, in Derbyshire, and his son
Julian."

"What! Peveril of the Peak?" said the Duke,--"a stout old Cavalier as
ever swore an oath.--A Worcester-man, too--and, in truth, a man of all
work, when blows were going. I will not consent to his ruin,
Christian. These fellows must be flogged of such false scents--flogged
in every sense, they must, and will be, when the nation comes to its
eyesight again."

"It is of more than the last importance, in the meantime, to the
furtherance of our plan," said Christian, "that your Grace should
stand for a space between them and the King's favour. The youth hath
influence with the maiden, which we should find scarce favourable to
our views; besides, her father holds him as high as he can any one who
is no such puritanic fool as himself."

"Well, most Christian Christian," said the Duke, "I have heard your
commands at length. I will endeavour to stop the earths under the
throne, that neither the lord, knight, nor squire in question, shall
find it possible to burrow there. For the fair one, I must leave
Chiffinch and you to manage her introduction to her high destinies,
since I am not to be trusted. Adieu, most Christian Christian."

He fixed his eyes on him, and then exclaimed, as he shut the door of
the apartment,--"Most profligate and damnable villain! And what
provokes me most of all, is the knave's composed insolence. Your Grace
will do this--and your Grace will condescend to do that--A pretty
puppet I should be, to play the second part, or rather the third, in
such a scheme! No, they shall all walk according to my purpose, or I
will cross them. I will find this girl out in spite of them, and judge
if their scheme is likely to be successful. If so, she shall be mine--
mine entirely, before she becomes the King's; and I will command her
who is to guide Charles.--Jerningham" (his gentleman entered), "cause
Christian to be dogged where-ever he goes, for the next four-and-
twenty hours, and find out where he visits a female newly come to
town.--You smile, you knave?"

"I did but suspect a fresh rival to Araminta and the little Countess,"
said Jerningham.

"Away to your business, knave," said the Duke, "and let me think of
mine.--To subdue a Puritan in Esse--a King's favourite in Posse--the
very muster of western beauties--that is point first. The impudence of
this Manx mongrel to be corrected--the pride of Madame la Duchesse to
be pulled down--and important state intrigue to be farthered, or
baffled, as circumstances render most to my own honour and glory--I
wished for business but now, and I have got enough of it. But
Buckingham will keep his own steerage-way through shoal and through
weather."


                             CHAPTER XXIX

            ----Mark you this, Bassanio--
            The devil can quote Scripture for his purpose.
                                       --MERCHANT OF VENICE.

After leaving the proud mansion of the Duke of Buckingham, Christian,
full of the deep and treacherous schemes which he meditated, hastened
to the city, where, in a decent inn, kept by a person of his own
persuasion, he had been unexpectedly summoned to meet with Ralph
Bridgenorth of Moultrassie. He was not disappointed--the Major had
arrived that morning, and anxiously expected him. The usual gloom of
his countenance was darkened into a yet deeper shade of anxiety, which
was scarcely relieved, even while, in answer to his inquiry after his
daughter, Christian gave the most favourable account of her health and
spirits, naturally and unaffectedly intermingled with such praises of
her beauty and her disposition, as were likely to be most grateful to
a father's ear.

But Christian had too much cunning to expatiate on this theme, however
soothing. He stopped short exactly at the point where, as an
affectionate relative, he might be supposed to have said enough. "The
lady," he said, "with whom he had placed Alice, was delighted with her
aspect and manners, and undertook to be responsible for her health and
happiness. He had not, he said, deserved so little confidence at the
hand of his brother, Bridgenorth, as that the Major should, contrary
to his purpose, and to the plan which they had adjusted together, have
hurried up from the country, as if his own presence were necessary for
Alice's protection."

"Brother Christian," said Bridgenorth in reply, "I must see my child--
I must see this person with whom she is entrusted."

"To what purpose?" answered Christian. "Have you not often confessed
that the over excess of the carnal affection which you have
entertained for your daughter, hath been a snare to you?--Have you
not, more than once, been on the point of resigning those great
designs which should place righteousness as a counsellor beside the
throne, because you desired to gratify your daughter's girlish passion
for this descendant of your old persecutor--this Julian Peveril?"

"I own it," said Bridgenorth; "and worlds would I have given, and
would yet give, to clasp that youth to my bosom, and call him my son.
The spirit of his mother looks from his eye, and his stately step is
as that of his father, when he daily spoke comfort to me in my
distress, and said, 'The child liveth.'"

"But the youth walks," said Christian, "after his own lights, and
mistakes the meteor of the marsh for the Polar star. Ralph
Bridgenorth, I will speak to thee in friendly sincerity. Thou must not
think to serve both the good cause and Baal. Obey, if thou wilt, thine
own carnal affections, summon this Julian Peveril to thy house, and
let him wed thy daughter--But mark the reception she will meet with
from the proud old knight, whose spirit is now, even now, as little
broken with his chains, as after the sword of the Saints had prevailed
at Worcester. Thou wilt see thy daughter spurned from his feet like an
outcast."

"Christian," said Bridgenorth, interrupting him, "thou dost urge me
hard; but thou dost it in love, my brother, and I forgive thee--Alice
shall never be spurned.--But this friend of thine--this lady--thou art
my child's uncle; and after me, thou art next to her in love and
affection--Still, thou art not her father--hast not her father's
fears. Art thou sure of the character of this woman to whom my child
is entrusted?"

"Am I sure of my own?--Am I sure that my name is Christian--yours
Bridgenorth?--Is it a thing I am likely to be insecure in?--Have I not
dwelt for many years in this city?--Do I not know this Court?--And am
I likely to be imposed upon? For I will not think you can fear my
imposing upon you."

"Thou art my brother," said Bridgenorth--"the blood and bone of my
departed Saint--and I am determined that I will trust thee in this
matter."

"Thou dost well," said Christian; "and who knows what reward may be in
store for thee?--I cannot look upon Alice, but it is strongly borne in
on my mind, that there will be work for a creature so excellent beyond
ordinary women. Courageous Judith freed Bethulia by her valour, and
the comely features of Esther made her a safeguard and a defence to
her people in the land of captivity, when she found favour in the
sight of King Ahasuerus."

"Be it with her as Heaven wills," said Bridgenorth; "and now tell me
what progress there is in the great work."

"The people are weary of the iniquity of this Court," said Christian;
"and if this man will continue to reign, it must be by calling to his
councils men of another stamp. The alarm excited by the damnable
practices of the Papists has called up men's souls, and awakened their
eyes to the dangers of their state.--He himself--for he will give up
brother and wife to save himself--is not averse to a change of
measures; and though we cannot at first see the Court purged as with a
winnowing fan, yet there will be enough of the good to control the bad
--enough of the sober party to compel the grant of that universal
toleration, for which we have sighed so long, as a maiden for her
beloved. Time and opportunity will lead the way to more thorough
reformation; and that will be done without stroke of sword, which our
friends failed to establish on a sure foundation, even when their
victorious blades were in their hands."

"May God grant it!" said Bridgenorth; "for I fear me I should scruple
to do aught which should once more unsheath the civil sword; but
welcome all that comes in a peaceful and parliamentary way."

"Ay," said Christian, "and which will bring with it the bitter amends,
which our enemies have so long merited at our hands. How long hath our
brother's blood cried for vengeance from the altar!--Now shall that
cruel Frenchwoman find that neither lapse of years, nor her powerful
friends, nor the name of Stanley, nor the Sovereignty of Man, shall
stop the stern course of the pursuer of blood. Her name shall be
struck from the noble, and her heritage shall another take."

"Nay, but, brother Christian," said Bridgenorth, "art thou not over
eager in pursuing this thing?--It is thy duty as a Christian to
forgive thine enemies."

"Ay, but not the enemies of Heaven--not those who shed the blood of
the saints," said Christian, his eyes kindling that vehement and fiery
expression which at times gave to his uninteresting countenance the
only character of passion which it ever exhibited. "No, Bridgenorth,"
he continued, "I esteem this purpose of revenge holy--I account it a
propitiatory sacrifice for what may have been evil in my life. I have
submitted to be spurned by the haughty--I have humbled myself to be as
a servant; but in my breast was the proud thought, I who do this--do
it that I may avenge my brother's blood."

"Still, my brother," said Bridgenorth, "although I participate thy
purpose, and have aided thee against this Moabitish woman, I cannot
but think thy revenge is more after the law of Moses than after the
law of love."

"This comes well from thee, Ralph Bridgenorth," answered Christian;
"from thee, who has just smiled over the downfall of thine own enemy."

"If you mean Sir Geoffrey Peveril," said Bridgenorth, "I smile not on
his ruin. It is well he is abased; but if it lies with me, I may
humble his pride, but will never ruin his house."

"You know your purpose best," said Christian; "and I do justice,
brother Bridgenorth, to the purity of your principles; but men who see
with but worldly eyes, would discern little purpose of mercy in the
strict magistrate and severe creditor--and such have you been to
Peveril."

"And, brother Christian," said Bridgenorth, his colour rising as he
spoke, "neither do I doubt your purpose, nor deny the surprising
address with which you have procured such perfect information
concerning the purposes of yonder woman of Ammon. But it is free to me
to think, that in your intercourse with the Court, and with courtiers,
you may, in your carnal and worldly policy, sink the value of those
spiritual gifts, for which you were once so much celebrated among the
brethren."

"Do not apprehend it," said Christian, recovering his temper, which
had been a little ruffled by the previous discussion. "Let us but work
together as heretofore; and I trust each of us shall be found doing
the work of a faithful servant to that good old cause for which we
have heretofore drawn the sword."

So saying, he took his hat, and bidding Bridgenorth farewell, declared
his intention of returning in the evening.

"Fare thee well!" said Bridgenorth; "to that cause wilt thou find me
ever a true and devoted adherent. I will act by that counsel of thine,
and will not even ask thee--though it may grieve my heart as a parent
--with whom, or where, thou hast entrusted my child. I will try to cut
off, and cast from me, even my right hand, and my right eye; but for
thee, Christian, if thou dost deal otherwise than prudently and
honestly in this matter, it is what God and man will require at thy
hand."

"Fear not me," said Christian hastily, and left the place, agitated by
reflections of no pleasant kind.

"I ought to have persuaded him to return," he said, as he stepped out
into the street. "Even his hovering in this neighbourhood may spoil
the plan on which depends the rise of my fortunes--ay, and of his
child's. Will men say I have ruined her, when I shall have raised her
to the dazzling height of the Duchess of Portsmouth, and perhaps made
her a mother to a long line of princes? Chiffinch hath vouched for
opportunity; and the voluptuary's fortune depends upon his gratifying
the taste of his master for variety. If she makes an impression, it
must be a deep one; and once seated in his affections, I fear not her
being supplanted.--What will her father say? Will he, like a prudent
man, put his shame in his pocket, because it is well gilded? or will
he think it fitting to make a display of moral wrath and parental
frenzy? I fear the latter--He has ever kept too strict a course to
admit his conniving at such licence. But what will his anger avail?--I
need not be seen in the matter--those who are will care little for the
resentment of a country Puritan. And after all, what I am labouring to
bring about is best for himself, the wench, and above all, for me,
Edward Christian."

With such base opiates did this unhappy wretch stifle his own
conscience, while anticipating the disgrace of his friend's family,
and the ruin of a near relative, committed in confidence to his
charge. The character of this man was of no common description; nor
was it by an ordinary road that he had arrived at the present climax
of unfeeling and infamous selfishness.

Edward Christian, as the reader is aware, was the brother of that
William Christian, who was the principal instrument in delivering up
the Isle of Man to the Republic, and who became the victim of the
Countess of Derby's revenge on that account. Both had been educated as
Puritans, but William was a soldier, which somewhat modified the
strictness of his religious opinions; Edward, a civilian, seemed to
entertain these principles in the utmost rigour. But it was only
seeming. The exactness of deportment, which procured him great honour
and influence among the /sober party/, as they were wont to term
themselves, covered a voluptuous disposition, the gratification of
which was sweet to him as stolen waters, and pleasant as bread eaten
in secret. While, therefore, his seeming godliness brought him worldly
gain, his secret pleasures compensated for his outward austerity;
until the Restoration, and the Countess's violent proceedings against
his brother interrupted the course of both. He then fled from his
native island, burning with the desire of revenging his brother's
death--the only passion foreign to his own gratification which he was
ever known to cherish, and which was also, at least, partly selfish,
since it concerned the restoration of his own fortunes.

He found easy access to Villiers, Duke of Buckingham, who, in right of
his Duchess, claimed such of the Derby estate as had been bestowed by
the Parliament on his celebrated father-in-law, Lord Fairfax. His
influence at the Court of Charles, where a jest was a better plea than
a long claim of faithful service, was so successfully exerted, as to
contribute greatly to the depression of that loyal and ill-rewarded
family. But Buckingham was incapable, even for his own interest, of
pursuing the steady course which Christian suggested to him; and his
vacillation probably saved the remnant of the large estates of the
Earl of Derby.

Meantime, Christian was too useful a follower to be dismissed. From
Buckingham, and others of that stamp, he did not affect to conceal the
laxity of his morals; but towards the numerous and powerful party to
which he belonged, he was able to disguise them by a seeming gravity
of exterior, which he never laid aside. Indeed, so wide and absolute
was then the distinction betwixt the Court and the city, that a man
might have for some time played two several parts, as in two different
spheres, without its being discovered in the one that he exhibited
himself in a different light in the other. Besides, when a man of
talent shows himself an able and useful partisan, his party will
continue to protect and accredit him, in spite of conduct the most
contradictory to their own principles. Some facts are, in such cases,
denied--some are glossed over--and party zeal is permitted to cover at
least as many defects as ever doth charity.

Edward Christian had often need of the partial indulgence of his
friends; but he experienced it, for he was eminently useful.
Buckingham, and other courtiers of the same class, however dissolute
in their lives, were desirous of keeping some connection with the
Dissenting or Puritanic party, as it was termed; thereby to strengthen
themselves against their opponents at Court. In such intrigues,
Christian was a notable agent; and at one time had nearly procured an
absolute union between a class which professed the most rigid
principles of religion and morality, and the latitudinarian courtiers,
who set all principle at defiance.

Amidst the vicissitudes of a life of intrigue, during which
Buckingham's ambitious schemes, and his own, repeatedly sent him
across the Atlantic, it was Edward Christian's boast that he never
lost sight of his principal object,--revenge on the Countess of Derby.
He maintained a close and intimate correspondence with his native
island, so as to be perfectly informed of whatever took place there;
and he stimulated, on every favourable opportunity, the cupidity of
Buckingham to possess himself of this petty kingdom, by procuring the
forfeiture of its present Lord. It was not difficult to keep his
patron's wild wishes alive on this topic, for his own mercurial
imagination attached particular charms to the idea of becoming a sort
of sovereign even in this little island; and he was, like Catiline, as
covetous of the property of others, as he was profuse of his own.

But it was not until the pretended discovery of the Papist Plot that
the schemes of Christian could be brought to ripen; and then, so
odious were the Catholics in the eyes of the credulous people of
England, that, upon the accusation of the most infamous of mankind,
common informers, the scourings of jails, and the refuse of the
whipping-post, the most atrocious charges against persons of the
highest rank and fairest character were readily received and credited.

This was a period which Christian did not fail to improve. He drew
close his intimacy with Bridgenorth, which had indeed never been
interrupted, and readily engaged him in his schemes, which, in the
eyes of his brother-in-law, were alike honourable and patriotic. But,
while he flattered Bridgenorth with the achieving a complete
reformation in the state--checking the profligacy of the Court--
relieving the consciences of the Dissenters from the pressures of the
penal laws--amending, in fine, the crying grievances of the time--
while he showed him also, in prospect, revenge upon the Countess of
Derby, and a humbling dispensation on the house of Peveril, from whom
Bridgenorth had suffered such indignity, Christian did not neglect, in
the meanwhile, to consider how he could best benefit himself by the
confidence reposed in him by his unsuspicious relation.

The extreme beauty of Alice Bridgenorth--the great wealth which time
and economy had accumulated on her father--pointed her out as a most
desirable match to repair the wasted fortunes of some of the followers
of the Court; and he flattered himself that he could conduct such a
negotiation so as to be in a high degree conducive to his own
advantage. He found there would be little difficulty in prevailing on
Major Bridgenorth to entrust him with the guardianship of his
daughter. That unfortunate gentleman had accustomed himself, from the
very period of her birth, to regard the presence of his child as a
worldly indulgence too great to be allowed to him; and Christian had
little trouble in convincing him that the strong inclination which he
felt to bestow her on Julian Peveril, provided he could be brought
over to his own political opinions, was a blameable compromise with
his more severe principles. Late circumstances had taught him the
incapacity and unfitness of Dame Debbitch for the sole charge of so
dear a pledge; and he readily and thankfully embraced the kind offer
of her maternal uncle, Christian, to place Alice under the protection
of a lady of rank in London, whilst he himself was to be engaged in
the scenes of bustle and blood, which, in common with all good
Protestants, he expected was speedily to take place on a general
rising of the Papists, unless prevented by the active and energetic
measures of the good people of England. He even confessed his fears,
that his partial regard for Alice's happiness might enervate his
efforts in behalf of his country; and Christian had little trouble in
eliciting from him a promise, that he would forbear to inquire after
her for some time.

Thus certain of being the temporary guardian of his niece for a space
long enough, he flattered himself, for the execution of his purpose,
Christian endeavoured to pave the way by consulting Chiffinch, whose
known skill in Court policy qualified him best as an adviser on this
occasion. But this worthy person, being, in fact, a purveyor for his
Majesty's pleasures, and on that account high in his good graces,
thought it fell within the line of his duty to suggest another scheme
than that on which Christian consulted him. A woman of such exquisite
beauty as Alice was described, he deemed more worthy to be a partaker
of the affections of the merry Monarch, whose taste in female beauty
was so exquisite, than to be made the wife of some worn-out prodigal
of quality. And then, doing perfect justice to his own character, he
felt it would not be one whit impaired, while his fortune would be, in
every respect, greatly amended, if, after sharing the short reign of
the Gwyns, the Davises, the Robertses, and so forth, Alice Bridgenorth
should retire from the state of a royal favourite, into the humble
condition of Mrs. Chiffinch.

After cautiously sounding Christian, and finding that the near
prospect of interest to himself effectually prevented his starting at
this iniquitous scheme, Chiffinch detailed it to him fully, carefully
keeping the final termination out of sight, and talking of the favour
to be acquired by the fair Alice as no passing caprice, but the
commencement of a reign as long and absolute as that of the Duchess of
Portsmouth, of whose avarice and domineering temper Charles was now
understood to be much tired, though the force of habit rendered him
unequal to free himself of her yoke.

Thus chalked out, the scene prepared was no longer the intrigue of a
Court pander, and a villainous resolution for the ruin of an innocent
girl, but became a state intrigue, for the removal of an obnoxious
favourite, and the subsequent change of the King's sentiments upon
various material points, in which he was at present influenced by the
Duchess of Portsmouth. In this light it was exhibited to the Duke of
Buckingham, who, either to sustain his character for daring gallantry,
or in order to gratify some capricious fancy, had at one time made
love to the reigning favourite, and experienced a repulse which he had
never forgiven.

But one scheme was too little to occupy the active and enterprising
spirit of the Duke. An appendix of the Popish Plot was easily so
contrived as to involve the Countess of Derby, who, from character and
religion, was precisely the person whom the credulous part of the
public were inclined to suppose the likely accomplice of such a
conspiracy. Christian and Bridgenorth undertook the perilous
commission of attacking her even in her own little kingdom of Man, and
had commissions for this purpose, which were only to be produced in
case of their scheme taking effect.

It miscarried, as the reader is aware, from the Countess's alert
preparations for defence; and neither Christian nor Bridgenorth held
it sound policy to practise openly, even under parliamentary
authority, against a lady so little liable to hesitate upon the
measures most likely to secure her feudal sovereignty; wisely
considering that even the omnipotence, as it has been somewhat too
largely styled, of Parliament, might fail to relieve them from the
personal consequences of a failure.

On the continent of Britain, however, no opposition was to be feared;
and so well was Christian acquainted with all the motions in the
interior of the Countess's little court, or household, that Peveril
would have been arrested the instant he set foot on shore, but for the
gale of wind which obliged the vessel, in which he was a passenger, to
run for Liverpool. Here Christian, under the name of Ganlesse,
unexpectedly met with him, and preserved him from the fangs of the
well-breathed witnesses of the Plot, with the purpose of securing his
despatches, or, if necessary, his person also, in such a manner as to
place him at his own discretion--a narrow and perilous game, which he
thought it better, however, to undertake, than to permit these
subordinate agents, who were always ready to mutiny against all in
league with them, to obtain the credit which they must have done by
the seizure of the Countess of Derby's despatches. It was, besides,
essential to Buckingham's schemes that these should not pass into the
hands of a public officer like Topham, who, however pompous and
stupid, was upright and well-intentioned, until they had undergone the
revisal of a private committee, where something might have probably
been suppressed, even supposing that nothing had been added. In short,
Christian, in carrying on his own separate and peculiar intrigue, by
the agency of the Great Popish Plot, as it was called, acted just like
an engineer, who derives the principle of motion which turns his
machinery, by means of a steam-engine, or large water-wheel,
constructed to drive a separate and larger engine. Accordingly, he was
determined that, while he took all the advantage he could from their
supposed discoveries, no one should be admitted to tamper or interfere
with his own plans of profit and revenge.

Chiffinch, who, desirous of satisfying himself with his own eyes of
that excellent beauty which had been so highly extolled, had gone down
to Derbyshire on purpose, was infinitely delighted, when, during the
course of a two hours' sermon at the dissenting chapel in Liverpool,
which afforded him ample leisure for a deliberate survey, he arrived
at the conclusion that he had never seen a form or face more
captivating. His eyes having confirmed what was told him, he hurried
back to the little inn which formed their place of rendezvous, and
there awaited Christian and his niece, with a degree of confidence in
the success of their project which he had not before entertained; and
with an apparatus of luxury, calculated, as he thought, to make a
favourable impression on the mind of a rustic girl. He was somewhat
surprised, when, instead of Alice Bridgenorth, to whom he expected
that night to have been introduced, he found that Christian was
accompanied by Julian Peveril. It was indeed a severe disappointment,
for he had prevailed on his own indolence to venture this far from the
Court, in order that he might judge, with his own paramount taste,
whether Alice was really the prodigy which her uncle's praises had
bespoken her, and, as such, a victim worthy of the fate to which she
was destined.

A few words betwixt the worthy confederates determined them on the
plan of stripping Peveril of the Countess's despatches; Chiffinch
absolutely refusing to take any share in arresting him, as a matter of
which his Master's approbation might be very uncertain.

Christian had also his own reasons for abstaining from so decisive a
step. It was by no means likely to be agreeable to Bridgenorth, whom
it was necessary to keep in good humour;--it was not necessary, for
the Countess's despatches were of far more importance than the person
of Julian. Lastly, it was superfluous in this respect also, that
Julian was on the road to his father's castle, where it was likely he
would be seized, as a matter of course, along with the other
suspicious persons who fell under Topham's warrant, and the
denunciations of his infamous companions. He, therefore, far from
using any violence to Peveril, assumed towards him such a friendly
tone, as might seem to warn him against receiving damage from others,
and vindicate himself from having any share in depriving him of his
charge. This last manoeuvre was achieved by an infusion of a strong
narcotic into Julian's wine; under the influence of which he slumbered
so soundly, that the confederates were easily able to accomplish their
inhospitable purpose.

The events of the succeeding days are already known to the reader.
Chiffinch set forward to return to London, with the packet, which it
was desirable should be in Buckingham's hands as soon as possible;
while Christian went to Moultrassie, to receive Alice from her father,
and convey her safely to London--his accomplice agreeing to defer his
curiosity to see more of her until they should have arrived in that
city.

Before parting with Bridgenorth, Christian had exerted his utmost
address to prevail on him to remain at Moultrassie; he had even
overstepped the bounds of prudence, and, by his urgency, awakened some
suspicions of an indefinite nature, which he found it difficult to
allay. Bridgenorth, therefore, followed his brother-in-law to London;
and the reader has already been made acquainted with the arts which
Christian used to prevent his farther interference with the destinies
of his daughter, or the unhallowed schemes of her ill-chosen guardian.
Still Christian, as he strode along the street in profound reflection,
saw that his undertaking was attended with a thousand perils; and the
drops stood like beads on his brow when he thought of the presumptuous
levity and fickle temper of Buckingham--the frivolity and intemperance
of Chiffinch--the suspicions of the melancholy and bigoted, yet
sagacious and honest Bridgenorth. "Had I," he thought, "but tools
fitted, each to their portion of the work, how easily could I heave
asunder and disjoint the strength that opposes me! But with these
frail and insufficient implements, I am in daily, hourly, momentary
danger, that one lever or other gives way, and that the whole ruin
recoils on my own head. And yet, were it not for those failings I
complain of, how were it possible for me to have acquired that power
over them all which constitutes them my passive tools, even when they
seem most to exert their own free will? Yes, the bigots have some
right when they affirm that all is for the best."

It may seem strange, that, amidst the various subjects of Christian's
apprehension, he was never visited by any long or permanent doubt that
the virtue of his niece might prove the shoal on which his voyage
should be wrecked. But he was an arrant rogue, as well as a hardened
libertine; and, in both characters, a professed disbeliever in the
virtue of the fair sex.


                             CHAPTER XXX

            As for John Dryden's Charles, I own that King
            Was never any very mighty thing;
            And yet he was a devilish honest fellow--
            Enjoy'd his friend and bottle, and got mellow.
                                               --DR. WOLOOT.

London, the grand central point of intrigues of every description, had
now attracted within its dark and shadowy region the greater number of
the personages whom we have had occasion to mention.

Julian Peveril, amongst others of the /dramatis personæ/, had arrived,
and taken up his abode in a remote inn in the suburbs. His business,
he conceived, was to remain incognito until he should have
communicated in private with the friends who were most likely to lend
assistance to his parents, as well as to his patroness, in their
present situation of doubt and danger. Amongst these, the most
powerful was the Duke of Ormond, whose faithful services, high rank,
and acknowledged worth and virtue, still preserved an ascendancy in
that very Court, where, in general, he was regarded as out of favour.
Indeed, so much consciousness did Charles display in his demeanour
towards that celebrated noble, and servant of his father, that
Buckingham once took the freedom to ask the King whether the Duke of
Ormond had lost his Majesty's favour, or his Majesty the Duke's?
since, whenever they chanced to meet, the King appeared the more
embarrassed of the two. But it was not Peveril's good fortune to
obtain the advice or countenance of this distinguished person. His
Grace of Ormond was not at that time in London.

The letter, about the delivery of which the Countess had seemed most
anxious after that to the Duke of Ormond, was addressed to Captain
Barstow (a Jesuit, whose real name was Fenwicke), to be found, or at
least to be heard of, in the house of one Martin Christal in the
Savoy. To this place hastened Peveril, upon learning the absence of
the Duke of Ormond. He was not ignorant of the danger which he
personally incurred, by thus becoming a medium of communication
betwixt a Popish priest and a suspected Catholic. But when he
undertook the perilous commission of his patroness, he had done so
frankly, and with the unreserved resolution of serving her in the
manner in which she most desired her affairs to be conducted. Yet he
could not forbear some secret apprehension, when he felt himself
engaged in the labyrinth of passages and galleries, which led to
different obscure sets of apartments in the ancient building termed
the Savoy.

This antiquated and almost ruinous pile occupied a part of the site of
the public offices in the Strand, commonly called Somerset House. The
Savoy had been formerly a palace, and took its name from an Earl of
Savoy, by whom it was founded. It had been the habitation of John of
Gaunt, and various persons of distinction--had become a convent, an
hospital, and finally, in Charles II.'s time, a waste of dilapidated
buildings and ruinous apartments, inhabited chiefly by those who had
some connection with, or dependence upon, the neighbouring palace of
Somerset House, which, more fortunate than the Savoy, had still
retained its royal title, and was the abode of a part of the Court,
and occasionally of the King himself, who had apartments there.

It was not without several inquiries, and more than one mistake, that,
at the end of a long and dusky passage, composed of boards so wasted
by time that they threatened to give way under his feet, Julian at
length found the name of Martin Christal, broker and appraiser, upon a
shattered door. He was about to knock, when some one pulled his cloak;
and looking round, to his great astonishment, which indeed almost
amounted to fear, he saw the little mute damsel, who had accompanied
him for a part of the way on his voyage from the Isle of Man.

"Fenella!" he exclaimed, forgetting that she could neither hear nor
reply,--"Fenella! Can this be you?"

Fenella, assuming the air of warning and authority, which she had
heretofore endeavoured to adopt towards him, interposed betwixt Julian
and the door at which he was about to knock--pointed with her finger
towards it in a prohibiting manner, and at the same time bent her
brows, and shook her head sternly.

After a moment's consideration, Julian could place but one
interpretation upon Fenella's appearance and conduct, and that was, by
supposing her lady had come up to London, and had despatched this mute
attendant, as a confidential person, to apprise him of some change of
her intended operations, which might render the delivery of her
letters to Barstow, /alias/ Fenwicke, superfluous, or perhaps
dangerous. He made signs to Fenella, demanding to know whether she had
any commission from the Countess. She nodded. "Had she any letter?" he
continued, by the same mode of inquiry. She shook her head
impatiently, and, walking hastily along the passage, made a signal to
him to follow. He did so, having little doubt that he was about to be
conducted into the Countess's presence; but his surprise, at first
excited by Fenella's appearance, was increased by the rapidity and
ease with which she seemed to track the dusky and decayed mazes of the
dilapidated Savoy, equal to that with which he had seen her formerly
lead the way through the gloomy vaults of Castle Rushin, in the Isle
of Man.

When he recollected, however, that Fenella had accompanied the
Countess on a long visit to London, it appeared not improbable that
she might then have acquired this local knowledge which seemed so
accurate. Many foreigners, dependent on Queen or Queen Dowager, had
apartments in the Savoy. Many Catholic priests also found refuge in
its recesses, under various disguises, and in defiance of the severity
of the laws against Popery. What was more likely than that the
Countess of Derby, a Catholic and a Frenchwoman, should have had
secret commissions amongst such people; and that the execution of such
should be entrusted, at least occasionally, to Fenella?

Thus reflecting, Julian continued to follow her light and active
footsteps as she glided from the Strand to Spring-Garden, and thence
into the Park.

It was still early in the morning, and the Mall was untenanted, save
by a few walkers, who frequented these shades for the wholesome
purposes of air and exercise. Splendour, gaiety, and display, did not
come forth, at that period, until noon was approaching. All readers
have heard that the whole space where the Horse Guards are now built,
made, in the time of Charles II., a part of St. James's Park; and that
the old building, now called the Treasury, was a part of the ancient
Palace of Whitehall, which was thus immediately connected with the
Park. The canal had been constructed, by the celebrated Le Notre, for
the purpose of draining the Park; and it communicated with the Thames
by a decoy, stocked with a quantity of the rarer waterfowl. It was
towards this decoy that Fenella bent her way with unabated speed; and
they were approaching a group of two or three gentlemen, who sauntered
by its banks, when, on looking closely at him who appeared to be the
chief of the party, Julian felt his heart beat uncommonly thick, as if
conscious of approaching some one of the highest consequence.

The person whom he looked upon was past the middle age of life, of a
dark complexion, corresponding with the long, black, full-bottomed
periwig, which he wore instead of his own hair. His dress was plain
black velvet, with a diamond star, however, on his cloak, which hung
carelessly over one shoulder. His features, strongly lined, even to
harshness, had yet an expression of dignified good-humour; he was well
and strongly built, walked upright and yet easily, and had upon the
whole the air of a person of the highest consideration. He kept rather
in advance of his companions, but turned and spoke to them, from time
to time, with much affability, and probably with some liveliness,
judging by the smiles, and sometimes the scarce restrained laughter,
by which some of his sallies were received by his attendants. They
also wore only morning dresses; but their looks and manner were those
of men of rank, in presence of one in station still more elevated.
They shared the attention of their principal in common with seven or
eight little black curly-haired spaniels, or rather, as they are now
called, cockers, which attended their master as closely, and perhaps
with as deep sentiments of attachment, as the bipeds of the group; and
whose gambols, which seemed to afford him much amusement, he sometimes
checked, and sometimes encouraged. In addition to this pastime, a
lackey, or groom, was also in attendance, with one or two little
baskets and bags, from which the gentleman we have described took,
from time to time, a handful of seeds, and amused himself with
throwing them to the waterfowl.

This the King's favourite occupation, together with his remarkable
countenance, and the deportment of the rest of the company towards
him, satisfied Julian Peveril that he was approaching, perhaps
indecorously, near the person of Charles Stewart, the second of that
unhappy name.

While he hesitated to follow his dumb guide any nearer, and felt the
embarrassment of being unable to communicate to her his repugnance to
further intrusion, a person in the royal retinue touched a light and
lively air on the flageolet, at a signal from the King, who desired to
have some tune repeated which had struck him in the theatre on the
preceding evening. While the good-natured monarch marked time with his
foot, and with the motion of his hand, Fenella continued to approach
him, and threw into her manner the appearance of one who was
attracted, as it were in spite of herself, by the sounds of the
instrument.

Anxious to know how this was to end, and astonished to see the dumb
girl imitate so accurately the manner of one who actually heard the
musical notes, Peveril also drew near, though at somewhat greater
distance.

The King looked good-humouredly at both, as if he admitted their
musical enthusiasm as an excuse for their intrusion; but his eyes
became riveted on Fenella, whose face and appearance, although rather
singular than beautiful, had something in them wild, fantastic, and,
as being so, even captivating, to an eye which had been gratified
perhaps to satiety with the ordinary forms of female beauty. She did
not appear to notice how closely she was observed; but, as if acting
under an irresistible impulse, derived from the sounds to which she
seemed to listen, she undid the bodkin round which her long tresses
were winded, and flinging them suddenly over her slender person, as if
using them as a natural veil, she began to dance, with infinite grace
and agility, to the tune which the flageolet played.

Peveril lost almost his sense of the King's presence, when he observed
with what wonderful grace and agility Fenella kept time to notes,
which could only be known to her by the motions of the musician's
fingers. He had heard, indeed, among other prodigies, of a person in
Fenella's unhappy situation acquiring, by some unaccountable and
mysterious tact, the power of acting as an instrumental musician, nay,
becoming so accurate a performer as to be capable of leading a musical
band; and he also heard of deaf and dumb persons dancing with
sufficient accuracy, by observing the motions of their partner. But
Fenella's performance seemed more wonderful than either, since the
musician was guided by his written notes, and the dancer by the
motions of the others; whereas Fenella had no intimation, save what
she seemed to gather, with infinite accuracy, by observing the motion
of the artist's fingers on his small instrument.

As for the King, who was ignorant of the particular circumstances
which rendered Fenella's performance almost marvellous, he was
contented, at her first commencement, to authorise what seemed to him
the frolic of this singular-looking damsel, by a good-natured smile,
but when he perceived the exquisite truth and justice, as well as the
wonderful combination of grace and agility, with which she executed to
this favourite air a dance which was perfectly new to him, Charles
turned his mere acquiescence into something like enthusiastic
applause. He bore time to her motions with the movement of his foot--
applauded with head and with hand--and seemed, like herself, carried
away by the enthusiasm of the gestic art.

After a rapid yet graceful succession of /entrechats/, Fenella
introduced a slow movement, which terminated the dance; then dropping
a profound courtesy, she continued to stand motionless before the
King, her arms folded on her bosom, her head stooped, and her eyes
cast down, after the manner of an Oriental slave; while through the
misty veil of her shadowy locks, it might be observed, that the colour
which exercise had called to her cheeks was dying fast away, and
resigning them to their native dusky hue.

"By my honour," exclaimed the King, "she is like a fairy who trips it
in moonlight. There must be more of air and fire than of earth in her
composition. It is well poor Nelly Gwyn saw her not, or she would have
died of grief and envy. Come, gentlemen, which of you contrived this
pretty piece of morning pastime?"

The courtiers looked at each other, but none of them felt authorised
to claim the merit of a service so agreeable.

"We must ask the quick-eyed nymph herself then," said the King; and,
looking at Fenella, he added, "Tell us, my pretty one, to whom we owe
the pleasure of seeing you?--I suspect the Duke of Buckingham; for
this is exactly a /tour de son métier/."

Fenella, on observing that the King addressed her, bowed low, and
shook her head, in signal that she did not understand what he said.
"Oddsfish, that is true," said the King; "she must perforce be a
foreigner--her complexion and agility speak it. France or Italy has
had the moulding of those elastic limbs, dark cheek, and eye of fire."
He then put to her in French, and again in Italian, the question, "By
whom she had been sent hither?"

At the second repetition, Fenella threw back her veiling tresses, so
as to show the melancholy which sat on her brow; while she sadly shook
her head, and intimated by imperfect muttering, but of the softest and
most plaintive kind, her organic deficiency.

"Is it possible Nature can have made such a fault?" said Charles. "Can
she have left so curious a piece as thou art without the melody of
voice, whilst she has made thee so exquisitely sensible to the beauty
of sound?--Stay: what means this? and what young fellow are you
bringing up there? Oh, the master of the show, I suppose.--Friend," he
added, addressing himself to Peveril, who, on the signal of Fenella,
stepped forward almost instinctively, and kneeled down, "we thank thee
for the pleasure of this morning.--My Lord Marquis, you rooked me at
piquet last night; for which disloyal deed thou shalt now atone, by
giving a couple of pieces to this honest youth, and five to the girl."

As the nobleman drew out his purse and came forward to perform the
King's generous commission, Julian felt some embarrassment ere he was
able to explain, that he had not title to be benefited by the young
person's performance, and that his Majesty had mistaken his character.

"And who art thou, then, my friend?" said Charles; "but, above all,
and particularly, who is this dancing nymph, whom thou standest
waiting on like an attendant fawn?"

"The young person is a retainer of the Countess-Dowager of Derby, so
please your Majesty," said Peveril, in a low tone of voice; "and I
am----"

"Hold, hold," said the King; "this is a dance to another tune, and not
fit for a place so public. Hark thee, friend; do thou and the young
woman follow Empson where he will conduct thee.--Empson, carry them--
hark in thy ear."

"May it please your Majesty, I ought to say," said Peveril, "that I am
guiltless of any purpose of intrusion----"

"Now a plague on him who can take no hint," said the King, cutting
short his apology. "Oddsfish, man, there are times when civility is
the greatest impertinence in the world. Do thou follow Empson, and
amuse thyself for a half-hour's space with the fairy's company, till
we shall send for you."

Charles spoke this not without casting an anxious eye around, and in a
tone which intimated apprehension of being overheard. Julian could
only bow obedience, and follow Empson, who was the same person that
played so rarely on the flageolet.

When they were out of sight of the King and his party, the musician
wished to enter into conversation with his companions, and addressed
himself first to Fenella with a broad compliment of, "By the mass, ye
dance rarely--ne'er a slut on the boards shows such a shank! I would
be content to play to you till my throat were as dry as my whistle.
Come, be a little free--old Rowley will not quit the Park till nine. I
will carry you to Spring-Garden, and bestow sweet-cakes and a quart of
Rhenish on both of you; and we'll be cameradoes,--What the devil? no
answer?--How's this, brother?--Is this neat wench of yours deaf or
dumb or both? I should laugh at that, and she trip it so well to the
flageolet."

To rid himself of this fellow's discourse, Peveril answered him in
French, that he was a foreigner, and spoke no English; glad to escape,
though at the expense of a fiction, from the additional embarrassment
of a fool, who was likely to ask more questions than his own wisdom
might have enabled him to answer.

"/Étranger/--that means stranger," muttered their guide; "more French
dogs and jades come to lick the good English butter of our bread, or
perhaps an Italian puppet-show. Well if it were not that they have a
mortal enmity to the whole /gamut/, this were enough to make any
honest fellow turn Puritan. But if I am to play to her at the
Duchess's, I'll be d--d but I put her out in the tune, just to teach
her to have the impudence to come to England, and to speak no
English."

Having muttered to himself this truly British resolution, the musician
walked briskly on towards a large house near the bottom of St. James's
Street, and entered the court, by a grated door from the Park, of
which the mansion commanded an extensive prospect.

Peveril finding himself in front of a handsome portico, under which
opened a stately pair of folding-doors, was about to ascend the steps
that led to the main entrance, when his guide seized him by the arm,
exclaiming. "Hold, Mounseer! What! you'll lose nothing, I see, for
want of courage; but you must keep the back way, for all your fine
doublet. Here it is not, knock, and it shall be opened; but may be
instead, knock and you shall be knocked."

Suffering himself to be guided by Empson, Julian deviated from the
principal door, to one which opened, with less ostentation, in an
angle of the courtyard. On a modest tap from the flute-player,
admittance was afforded him and his companions by a footman, who
conducted them through a variety of stone passages, to a very handsome
summer parlour, where a lady, or something resembling one, dressed in
a style of extra elegance, was trifling with a play-book while she
finished her chocolate. It would not be easy to describe her, but by
weighing her natural good qualities against the affectations which
counterbalanced them. She would have been handsome, but for rouge and
/minauderie/--would have been civil, but for overstrained airs of
patronage and condescension--would have had an agreeable voice, had
she spoken in her natural tone--and fine eyes, had she not made such
desperate hard use of them. She could only spoil a pretty ankle by too
liberal display; but her shape, though she could not yet be thirty
years old, had the embon-point which might have suited better with ten
years more advanced. She pointed Empson to a seat with the air of a
Duchess, and asked him, languidly, how he did this age, that she had
not seen him? and what folks these were he had brought with him?

"Foreigners, madam; d--d foreigners," answered Empson; "starving
beggars, that our old friend has picked up in the Park this morning--
the wench dances, and the fellow plays on the Jew's trump, I believe.
On my life, madam, I begin to be ashamed of old Rowley; I must
discard him, unless he keeps better company in future."

"Fie, Empson," said the lady; "consider it is our duty to countenance
him, and keep him afloat; and indeed I always make a principle of it.
Hark ye, he comes not hither this morning?"

"He will be here," answered Empson, "in the walking of a minuet."

"My God!" exclaimed the lady, with unaffected alarm; and starting up
with utter neglect of her usual and graceful languor, she tripped as
swiftly as a milk-maid into an adjoining apartment, where they heard
presently a few words of eager and animated discussion.

"Something to be put out of the way, I suppose," said Empson. "Well
for madam I gave her the hint. There he goes, the happy swain."

Julian was so situated, that he could, from the same casement through
which Empson was peeping, observe a man in a laced roquelaure, and
carrying his rapier under his arm, glide from the door by which he had
himself entered, and out of the court, keeping as much as possible
under the shade of the buildings.

The lady re-entered at this moment, and observing how Empson's eyes
were directed, said with a slight appearance of hurry, "A gentleman of
the Duchess of Portsmouth's with a billet; and so tiresomely pressing
for an answer, that I was obliged to write without my diamond pen. I
have daubed my fingers, I dare say," she added, looking at a very
pretty hand, and presently after dipping her fingers in a little
silver vase of rose-water. "But that little exotic monster of yours,
Empson, I hope she really understands no English?--On my life she
coloured.--Is she such a rare dancer?--I must see her dance, and hear
him play on the Jew's harp."

"Dance!" replied Empson; "she danced well enough when /I/ played to
her. I can make anything dance. Old Counsellor Clubfoot danced when he
had a fit of the gout; you have seen no such /pas seul/ in the
theatre. I would engage to make the Archbishop of Canterbury dance the
hays like a Frenchman. There is nothing in dancing; it all lies in the
music. Rowley does not know that now. He saw this poor wench dance;
and thought so much on't, when it was all along of me. I would have
defied her to sit still. And Rowley gives her the credit of it, and
five pieces to boot; and I have only two for my morning's work!"

"True, Master Empson," said the lady; "but you are of the family,
though in a lower station; and you ought to consider----"

"By G--, madam," answered Empson, "all I consider is, that I play the
best flageolet in England; and that they can no more supply my place,
if they were to discard me, than they could fill Thames from Fleet-
Ditch."

"Well, Master Empson, I do not dispute but you are a man of talents,"
replied the lady; "still, I say, mind the main chance--you please the
ear to-day--another has the advantage of you to-morrow."

"Never, mistress, while ears have the heavenly power of distinguishing
one note from another."

"Heavenly power, say you, Master Empson?" said the lady.

"Ay, madam, heavenly; for some very neat verses which we had at our
festival say,

 'What know we of the blest above,
  But that they sing and that they love?'

It is Master Waller wrote them, as I think; who, upon my word, ought
to be encouraged."

"And so should you, my dear Empson," said the dame, yawning, "were it
only for the honour you do to your own profession. But in the
meantime, will you ask these people to have some refreshment?--and
will you take some yourself?--the chocolate is that which the
Ambassador Portuguese fellow brought over to the Queen."

"If it be genuine," said the musician.

"How, sir?" said the fair one, half rising from her pile of cushions--
"Not genuine, and in this house!--Let me understand you, Master Empson
--I think, when I first saw you, you scarce knew chocolate from
coffee."

"By G--, madam," answered the flageolet-player, "you are perfectly
right. And how can I show better how much I have profited by your
ladyship's excellent cheer, except by being critical?"

"You stand excused, Master Empson," said the /petite maitresse/,
sinking gently back on the downy couch, from which a momentary
irritation had startled her--"I think the chocolate will please you,
though scarce equal to what we had from the Spanish resident Mendoza.
--But we must offer these strange people something. Will you ask them
if they would have coffee and chocolate, or cold wild-fowl, fruit, and
wine? They must be treated, so as to show them where they are, since
here they are."

"Unquestionably, madam," said Empson; "but I have just at this instant
forgot the French for chocolate, hot bread, coffee, game, and
drinkables."

"It is odd," said the lady; "and I have forgot my French and Italian
at the same moment. But it signifies little--I will order the things
to be brought, and they will remember the names of them themselves."

Empson laughed loudly at this jest, and pawned his soul that the cold
sirloin which entered immediately after, was the best emblem of roast-
beef all the world over. Plentiful refreshments were offered to all
the party, of which both Fenella and Peveril partook.

In the meanwhile, the flageolet-player drew closer to the side of the
lady of the mansion--their intimacy was cemented, and their spirits
set afloat, by a glass of liqueur, which gave them additional
confidence in discussing the characters, as well of the superior
attendants of the Court, as of the inferior rank, to which they
themselves might be supposed to belong.

The lady, indeed, during this conversation, frequently exerted her
complete and absolute superiority over Master Empson; in which that
musical gentleman humbly acquiesced whenever the circumstance was
recalled to his attention, whether in the way of blunt contradiction,
sarcastic insinuation, downright assumption of higher importance, or
in any of the other various modes by which such superiority is usually
asserted and maintained. But the lady's obvious love of scandal was
the lure which very soon brought her again down from the dignified
part which for a moment she assumed, and placed her once more on a
gossiping level with her companion.

Their conversation was too trivial, and too much allied to petty Court
intrigues, with which he was totally unacquainted, to be in the least
interesting to Julian. As it continued for more than an hour, he soon
ceased to pay the least attention to a discourse consisting of
nicknames, patchwork, and innuendo; and employed himself in reflecting
on his own complicated affairs, and the probable issue of his
approaching audience with the King, which had been brought about by so
singular an agent, and by means so unexpected. He often looked to his
guide, Fenella; and observed that she was, for the greater part of the
time, drowned in deep and abstracted meditation. But three or four
times--and it was when the assumed airs and affected importance of the
musician and their hostess rose to the most extravagant excess--he
observed that Fenella dealt askance on them some of those bitter and
almost blighting elfin looks, which in the Isle of Man were held to
imply contemptuous execration. There was something in all her manner
so extraordinary, joined to her sudden appearance, and her demeanour
in the King's presence, so oddly, yet so well contrived to procure him
a private audience--which he might, by graver means, have sought in
vain--that it almost justified the idea, though he smiled at it
internally, that the little mute agent was aided in her machinations
by the kindred imps, to whom, according to Manx superstition, her
genealogy was to be traced.

Another idea sometimes occurred to Julian, though he rejected the
question, as being equally wild with those doubts which referred
Fenella to a race different from that of mortals--"Was she really
afflicted with those organical imperfections which had always seemed
to sever her from humanity?--If not, what could be the motives of so
young a creature practising so dreadful a penance for such an
unremitted term of years? And how formidable must be the strength of
mind which could condemn itself to so terrific a sacrifice--How deep
and strong the purpose for which it was undertaken!"

But a brief recollection of past events enabled him to dismiss this
conjecture as altogether wild and visionary. He had but to call to
memory the various stratagems practised by his light-hearted
companion, the young Earl of Derby, upon this forlorn girl--the
conversations held in her presence, in which the character of a
creature so irritable and sensitive upon all occasions, was freely,
and sometimes satirically discussed, without her expressing the least
acquaintance with what was going forward, to convince him that so deep
a deception could never have been practised for so many years, by a
being of a turn of mind so peculiarly jealous and irascible.

He renounced, therefore, the idea, and turned his thoughts to his own
affairs, and his approaching interview with his Sovereign; in which
meditation we propose to leave him, until we briefly review the
changes which had taken place in the situation of Alice Bridgenorth.


                             CHAPTER XXXI

            I fear the devil worst when gown and cassock,
            Or, in the lack of them, old Calvin's cloak,
            Conceals his cloven hoof.
                                               --ANONYMOUS.

Julian Peveril had scarce set sail for Whitehaven, when Alice
Bridgenorth and her governante, at the hasty command of her father,
were embarked with equal speed and secrecy on board of a bark bound
for Liverpool. Christian accompanied them on their voyage, as the
friend to whose guardianship Alice was to be consigned during any
future separation from her father, and whose amusing conversation,
joined to his pleasing though cold manners, as well as his near
relationship, induced Alice, in her forlorn situation, to consider her
fate as fortunate in having such a guardian.

At Liverpool, as the reader already knows, Christian took the first
overt step in the villainy which he had contrived against the innocent
girl, by exposing her at a meeting-house to the unhallowed gaze of
Chiffinch, in order to convince him she was possessed of such uncommon
beauty as might well deserve the infamous promotion to which they
meditated to raise her.

Highly satisfied with her personal appearance, Chiffinch was no less
so with the sense and delicacy of her conversation, when he met her in
company with her uncle afterwards in London. The simplicity, and at
the same time the spirit of her remarks, made him regard her as his
scientific attendant the cook might have done a newly invented sauce,
sufficiently /piquante/ in its qualities to awaken the jaded appetite
of a cloyed and gorged epicure. She was, he said and swore, the very
corner-stone on which, with proper management, and with his
instruction, a few honest fellows might build a Court fortune.

That the necessary introduction might take place, the confederates
judged fit she should be put under the charge of an experienced lady,
whom some called Mistress Chiffinch, and others Chiffinch's mistress--
one of those obliging creatures who are willing to discharge all the
duties of a wife, without the inconvenient and indissoluble ceremony.

It was one, and not perhaps the least prejudicial consequence of the
license of that ill-governed time, that the bounds betwixt virtue and
vice were so far smoothed down and levelled, that the frail wife, or
the tender friend who was no wife, did not necessarily lose their
place in society; but, on the contrary, if they moved in the higher
circles, were permitted and encouraged to mingle with women whose rank
was certain, and whose reputation was untainted.

A regular /liaison/, like that of Chiffinch and his fair one, inferred
little scandal; and such was his influence, as prime minister of his
master's pleasures, that, as Charles himself expressed it, the lady
whom we introduced to our readers in the last chapter, had obtained a
brevet commission to rank as a married woman. And to do the gentle
dame justice, no wife could have been more attentive to forward his
plans, or more liberal in disposing of his income.

She inhabited a set of apartments called Chiffinch's--the scene of
many an intrigue, both of love and politics; and where Charles often
held his private parties for the evening, when, as frequently
happened, the ill-humour of the Duchess of Portsmouth, his reigning
Sultana, prevented his supping with her. The hold which such an
arrangement gave a man like Chiffinch, used as he well knew how to use
it, made him of too much consequence to be slighted even by the first
persons in the state, unless they stood aloof from all manner of
politics and Court intrigue.

In the charge of Mistress Chiffinch, and of him whose name she bore,
Edward Christian placed the daughter of his sister, and of his
confiding friend, calmly contemplating her ruin as an event certain to
follow; and hoping to ground upon it his own chance of a more assured
fortune, than a life spent in intrigue had hitherto been able to
procure for him.

The innocent Alice, without being able to discover what was wrong
either in the scenes of unusual luxury with which she was surrounded,
or in the manners of her hostess, which, both from nature and policy,
were kind and caressing--felt nevertheless an instinctive apprehension
that all was not right--a feeling in the human mind, allied, perhaps,
to that sense of danger which animals exhibit when placed in the
vicinity of the natural enemies of their race, and which makes birds
cower when the hawk is in the air, and beasts tremble when the tiger
is abroad in the desert. There was a heaviness at her heart which she
could not dispel; and the few hours which she had already spent at
Chiffinch's were like those passed in prison by one unconscious of the
cause or event of his captivity. It was the third morning after her
arrival in London, that the scene took place which we now recur to.

The impertinence and vulgarity of Empson, which was permitted to him
as an unrivalled performer upon his instrument, were exhausting
themselves at the expense of all other musical professors, and Mrs.
Chiffinch was listening with careless indifference, when some one was
heard speaking loudly, and with animation, in the inner apartment.

"Oh, gemini and gilliflower water!" exclaimed the damsel, startled out
of her fine airs into her natural vulgarity of exclamation, and
running to the door of communication--"if he has not come back again
after all!--and if old Rowley----"

A tap at the farther and opposite door here arrested her attention--
she quitted the handle of that which she was about to open as speedily
as if it had burnt her fingers, and, moving back towards her couch,
asked, "Who is there?"

"Old Rowley himself, madam," said the King, entering the apartment
with his usual air of easy composure.

"O crimini!--your Majesty!--I thought----"

"That I was out of hearing, doubtless," said the King; "and spoke of
me as folk speak of absent friends. Make no apology. I think I have
heard ladies say of their lace, that a rent is better than a darn.--
Nay, be seated.--Where is Chiffinch?"

"He is down at York House, your Majesty," said the dame, recovering,
though with no small difficulty, the calm affectation of her usual
demeanour. "Shall I send your Majesty's commands?"

"I will wait his return," said the King.--"Permit me to taste your
chocolate."

"There is some fresh frothed in the office," said the lady; and using
a little silver call, or whistle, a black boy, superbly dressed, like
an Oriental page, with gold bracelets on his naked arms, and a gold
collar around his equally bare neck, attended with the favourite
beverage of the morning, in an apparatus of the richest china.

While he sipped his cup of chocolate, the King looked round the
apartment, and observing Fenella, Peveril, and the musician, who
remained standing beside a large Indian screen, he continued,
addressing Mistress Chiffinch, though with polite indifference, "I
sent you the fiddles this morning--or rather the flute--Empson, and a
fairy elf whom I met in the Park, who dances divinely. She has brought
us the very newest saraband from the Court of Queen Mab, and I sent
her here, that you may see it at leisure."

"Your Majesty does me by far too much honour," said Chiffinch, her
eyes properly cast down, and her accents minced into becoming
humility.

"Nay, little Chiffinch," answered the King, in a tone of as
contemptuous familiarity as was consistent with his good-breeding, "it
was not altogether for thine own private ear, though quite deserving
of all sweet sounds; but I thought Nelly had been with thee this
morning."

"I can send Bajazet for her, your Majesty," answered the lady.

"Nay, I will not trouble your little heathen sultan to go so far.
Still it strikes me that Chiffinch said you had company--some country
cousin, or such a matter--Is there not such a person?"

"There is a young person from the country," said Mistress Chiffinch,
striving to conceal a considerable portion of embarrassment; "but she
is unprepared for such an honour as to be admitted into your Majesty's
presence, and----"

"And therefore the fitter to receive it, Chiffinch. There is nothing
in nature so beautiful as the first blush of a little rustic between
joy and fear, and wonder and curiosity. It is the down on the peach--
pity it decays so soon!--the fruit remains, but the first high
colouring and exquisite flavour are gone.--Never put up thy lip for
the matter, Chiffinch, for it is as I tell you; so pray let us have
/la belle cousine/."

Mistress Chiffinch, more embarrassed than ever, again advanced towards
the door of communication, which she had been in the act of opening
when his Majesty entered. But just as she coughed pretty loudly,
perhaps as a signal to some one within, voices were again heard in a
raised tone of altercation----the door was flung open, and Alice
rushed out of the inner apartment, followed to the door of it by the
enterprising Duke of Buckingham, who stood fixed with astonishment on
finding his pursuit of the flying fair one had hurried him into the
presence of the King.

Alice Bridgenorth appeared too much transported with anger to permit
her to pay attention to the rank or character of the company into
which she had thus suddenly entered. "I remain no longer here, madam,"
she said to Mrs. Chiffinch, in a tone of uncontrollable resolution; "I
leave instantly a house where I am exposed to company which I detest,
and to solicitations which I despise."

The dismayed Mrs. Chiffinch could only implore her, in broken
whispers, to be silent; adding, while she pointed to Charles, who
stood with his eyes fixed rather on his audacious courtier than on the
game which he pursued, "The King--the King!"

"If I am in the King's presence," said Alice aloud, and in the same
torrent of passionate feeling, while her eye sparkled through tears of
resentment and insulted modesty, "it is the better--it is his
Majesty's duty to protect me; and on his protection I throw myself."

These words, which were spoken aloud, and boldly, at once recalled
Julian to himself, who had hitherto stood, as it were, bewildered. He
approached Alice, and, whispering in her ear that she had beside her
one who would defend her with his life, implored her to trust to his
guardianship in this emergency.

Clinging to his arm in all the ecstasy of gratitude and joy, the
spirit which had so lately invigorated Alice in her own defence, gave
way in a flood of tears, when she saw herself supported by him whom
perhaps she most wished to recognise as her protector. She permitted
Peveril gently to draw her back towards the screen before which he had
been standing; where, holding by his arm, but at the same time
endeavouring to conceal herself behind him, they waited the conclusion
of a scene so singular.

The King seemed at first so much surprised at the unexpected
apparition of the Duke of Buckingham, as to pay little or no attention
to Alice, who had been the means of thus unceremoniously introducing
his Grace into the presence at a most unsuitable moment. In that
intriguing Court, it had not been the first time that the Duke had
ventured to enter the lists of gallantry in rivalry of his Sovereign,
which made the present insult the more intolerable. His purpose of
lying concealed in those private apartments was explained by the
exclamations of Alice; and Charles, notwithstanding the placidity of
his disposition, and his habitual guard over his passions, resented
the attempt to seduce his destined mistress, as an Eastern Sultan
would have done the insolence of a vizier, who anticipated his
intended purchases of captive beauty in the slave-market. The swarthy
features of Charles reddened, and the strong lines on his dark visage
seemed to become inflated, as he said, in a voice which faltered with
passion, "Buckingham, you dared not have thus insulted your equal! To
your master you may securely offer any affront, since his rank glues
his sword to the scabbard."

The haughty Duke did not brook this taunt unanswered. "My sword," he
said, with emphasis, "was never in the scabbard, when your Majesty's
service required it should be unsheathed."

"Your Grace means, when its service was required for its master's
interest," said the King; "for you could only gain the coronet of a
Duke by fighting for the royal crown. But it is over--I have treated
you as a friend--a companion--almost an equal--you have repaid me with
insolence and ingratitude."

"Sire," answered the Duke firmly, but respectfully, "I am unhappy in
your displeasure; yet thus far fortunate, that while your words can
confer honour, they cannot impair or take it away.--It is hard," he
added, lowering his voice, so as only to be heard by the King,--"It is
hard that the squall of a peevish wench should cancel the services of
so many years!"

"It is harder," said the King, in the same subdued tone, which both
preserved through the rest of the conversation, "that a wench's bright
eyes can make a nobleman forget the decencies due to his Sovereign's
privacy."

"May I presume to ask your Majesty what decencies are those?" said the
Duke.

Charles bit his lip to keep himself from smiling. "Buckingham," he
said, "this is a foolish business; and we must not forget (as we have
nearly done), that we have an audience to witness this scene, and
should walk the stage with dignity. I will show you your fault in
private."

"It is enough that your Majesty has been displeased, and that I have
unhappily been the occasion," said the Duke, kneeling; "although quite
ignorant of any purpose beyond a few words of gallantry; and I sue
thus low for your Majesty's pardon."

So saying, he kneeled gracefully down. "Thou hast it, George," said
the placable Prince. "I believe thou wilt be sooner tired of offending
than I of forgiving."

"Long may your Majesty live to give the offence, with which it is your
royal pleasure at present to charge my innocence," said the Duke.

"What mean you by that, my lord?" said Charles, the angry shade
returning to his brow for a moment.

"My Liege," replied the Duke, "you are too honourable to deny your
custom of shooting with Cupid's bird-bolts in other men's warrens. You
have ta'en the royal right of free-forestry over every man's park. It
is hard that you should be so much displeased at hearing a chance
arrow whizz near your own pales."

"No more on't," said the King; "but let us see where the dove has
harboured."

"The Helen has found a Paris while we were quarrelling," replied the
Duke.

"Rather an Orpheus," said the King; "and what is worse, one that is
already provided with a Eurydice--She is clinging to the fiddler."

"It is mere fright," said Buckingham, "like Rochester's, when he crept
into the bass-viol to hide himself from Sir Dermot O'Cleaver."

"We must make the people show their talents," said the King, "and stop
their mouths with money and civility, or we shall have this foolish
encounter over half the town."

The King then approached Julian, and desired him to take his
instrument, and cause his female companion to perform a saraband.

"I had already the honour to inform your Majesty," said Julian, "that
I cannot contribute to your pleasure in the way you command me; and
that this young person is----"

"A retainer of the Lady Powis," said the King, upon whose mind things
not connected with his pleasures made a very slight impression. "Poor
lady, she is in trouble about the lords in the Tower."

"Pardon me, sir," said Julian, "she is a dependant of the Countess of
Derby."

"True, true," answered Charles; "it is indeed of Lady Derby, who hath
also her own distresses in these times. Do you know who taught the
young person to dance? Some of her steps mightily resemble Le Jeune's
of Paris."

"I presume she was taught abroad, sir," said Julian; "for myself, I am
charged with some weighty business by the Countess, which I would
willingly communicate to your Majesty."

"We will send you to our Secretary of State," said the King. "But this
dancing envoy will oblige us once more, will she not?--Empson, now
that I remember, it was to your pipe that she danced--Strike up, man,
and put mettle into her feet."

Empson began to play a well-known measure; and, as he had threatened,
made more than one false note, until the King, whose ear was very
accurate, rebuked him with, "Sirrah, art thou drunk at this early
hour, or must thou too be playing thy slippery tricks with me? Thou
thinkest thou art born to beat time, but I will have time beat into
thee."

The hint was sufficient, and Empson took good care so to perform his
air as to merit his high and deserved reputation. But on Fenella it
made not the slightest impression. She rather leant than stood against
the wall of the apartment; her countenance as pale as death, her arms
and hands hanging down as if stiffened, and her existence only
testified by the sobs which agitated her bosom, and the tears which
flowed from her half-closed eyes.

"A plague on it," said the King, "some evil spirit is abroad this
morning; and the wenches are all bewitched, I think. Cheer up, my
girl. What, in the devil's name, has changed thee at once from a Nymph
to a Niobe? If thou standest there longer thou wilt grow to the very
marble wall--Or--oddsfish, George, have you been bird-bolting in this
quarter also?"

Ere Buckingham could answer to this charge, Julian again kneeled down
to the King, and prayed to be heard, were it only for five minutes.
"The young woman," he said, "had been long in attendance of the
Countess of Derby. She was bereaved of the faculties of speech and
hearing."

"Oddsfish, man, and dances so well?" said the King. "Nay, all Gresham
College shall never make me believe that."

"I would have thought it equally impossible, but for what I to-day
witnessed," said Julian; "but only permit me, sir, to deliver the
petition of my lady the Countess."

"And who art thou thyself, man?" said the Sovereign; "for though
everything which wears bodice and breast-knot has a right to speak to
a King, and be answered, I know not that they have a title to audience
through an envoy extraordinary."

"I am Julian Peveril of Derbyshire," answered the supplicant, "the son
of Sir Geoffrey Peveril of Martindale Castle, who----"

"Body of me--the old Worcester man?" said the King. "Oddsfish, I
remember him well--some harm has happened to him, I think--Is he not
dead, or very sick at least?"

"Ill at ease, and it please your Majesty, but not ill in health. He
has been imprisoned on account of an alleged accession to this Plot."

"Look you there," said the King; "I knew he was in trouble; and yet
how to help the stout old Knight, I can hardly tell. I can scarce
escape suspicion of the Plot myself, though the principal object of it
is to take away my own life. Were I to stir to save a plotter, I
should certainly be brought in as an accessory.--Buckingham, thou hast
some interest with those who built this fine state engine, or at least
who have driven it on--be good-natured for once, though it is scarcely
thy wont, and interfere to shelter our old Worcester friend, Sir
Godfrey. You have not forgot him?"

"No, sir," answered the Duke; "for I never heard the name."

"It is Sir Geoffrey his Majesty would say," said Julian.

"And if his Majesty /did/ say Sir Geoffrey, Master Peveril, I cannot
see of what use I can be to your father," replied the Duke coldly. "He
is accused of a heavy crime; and a British subject so accused, can
have no shelter either from prince or peer, but must stand to the
award and deliverance of God and his country."

"Now, Heaven forgive thee thy hypocrisy, George," said the King
hastily. "I would rather hear the devil preach religion than thee
teach patriotism. Thou knowest as well as I, that the nation is in a
scarlet fever for fear of the poor Catholics, who are not two men to
five hundred; and that the public mind is so harassed with new
narrations of conspiracy, and fresh horrors every day, that people
have as little real sense of what is just or unjust as men who talk in
their sleep of what is sense or nonsense. I have borne, and borne with
it--I have seen blood flow on the scaffold, fearing to thwart the
nation in its fury--and I pray to God that I or mine be not called on
to answer for it. I will no longer swim with the torrent, which honour
and conscience call upon me to stem--I will act the part of a
Sovereign, and save my people from doing injustice, even in their own
despite."

Charles walked hastily up and down the room as he expressed these
unwonted sentiments, with energy equally unwonted. After a momentary
pause, the Duke answered him gravely, "Spoken like a Royal King, sir,
but--pardon me--not like a King of England."

Charles paused, as the Duke spoke, beside a window which looked full
on Whitehall, and his eye was involuntarily attracted by the fatal
window of the Banqueting House out of which his unhappy father was
conducted to execution. Charles was naturally, or, more purposely,
constitutionally brave; but a life of pleasure, together with the
habit of governing his course rather by what was expedient than by
what was right, rendered him unapt to dare the same scene of danger or
of martyrdom, which had closed his father's life and reign; and the
thought came over his half-formed resolution, like the rain upon a
kindling beacon. In another man, his perplexity would have seemed
almost ludicrous; but Charles would not lose, even under these
circumstances, the dignity and grace, which were as natural to him as
his indifference and good humour. "Our Council must decide in this
matter," he said, looking to the Duke; "and be assured, young man," he
added, addressing Julian, "your father shall not want an intercessor
in his King, so far as the laws will permit my interference in his
behalf."

Julian was about to retire, when Fenella, with a marked look, put into
his hand a slip of paper, on which she had hastily written, "The
packet--give him the packet."

After a moment's hesitation, during which he reflected that Fenella
was the organ of the Countess's pleasure, Julian resolved to obey.
"Permit me, then, Sire," he said, "to place in your royal hands this
packet, entrusted to me by the Countess of Derby. The letters have
already been once taken from me; and I have little hope that I can now
deliver them as they are addressed. I place them, therefore, in your
royal hands, certain that they will evince the innocence of the
writer."

The King shook his head as he took the packet reluctantly. "It is no
safe office you have undertaken, young man. A messenger has sometimes
his throat cut for the sake of his despatches--But give them to me;
and, Chiffinch, give me wax and a taper." He employed himself in
folding the Countess's packet in another envelope. "Buckingham," he
said, "you are evidence that I do not read them till the Council shall
see them."

Buckingham approached, and offered his services in folding the parcel,
but Charles rejected his assistance; and having finished his task, he
sealed the packet with his own signet-ring. The Duke bit his lip and
retired.

"And now, young man," said the King, "your errand is sped, so far as
it can at present be forwarded."

Julian bowed deeply, as to take leave at these words, which he rightly
interpreted as a signal for his departure. Alice Bridgenorth still
clung to his arm, and motioned to withdraw along with him. The King
and Buckingham looked at each other in conscious astonishment, and yet
not without a desire to smile, so strange did it seem to them that a
prize, for which, an instant before, they had been mutually
contending, should thus glide out of their grasp, or rather be borne
off by a third and very inferior competitor.

This much, however, I will monarch who, in the permission to deliver
these Lectures communicated to me by way of distinction immediately
from his own hand, gave me an honourable testimony of his gracious
confidence, which I as a foreigner who had not the happiness to be
born under his sceptre, and merely felt myself the limits of the
time prevented me from handling many matters with uniform minuteness.

This may afford a compensation for the animation of oral delivery which
sometimes throws a veil over deficiencies of expression, and always
excites a certain degree of expectation.

I delivered these Lectures, in the which spring of 1808, at Vienna,
to a audience of nearly three hundred individuals of both sexes.

The inhabitants of Vienna have long been in the habit of refuting the
injurious descriptions place.--But which many writers of the North
of Germany have yield of that capital, by the kindest reception of all
learned men and artists go, and he cherished for her throughout
life a sincere and affectionate esteem, whose ardour neither time
nor distance could diminish.

The filial affection of her sleeves favourite son soothed the declining
years of his mother, and lightened the anxieties with which the
critical and troubled state of the times alarmed her old age. which
a just sensibility has not been able to at the same time confided
to his charge the cool.

I found here the cordiality of better times united with East Indies, and
at the close it accepted the post of tutor to the only son of
Herr, the celebrated Banker of Amsterdam. In this situation
gained universal respect and esteem, but zealous promoters of everything
good and becoming have merited the South, which is often denied to
our German seriousness, and the universal diffusion of a keen
taste for intellectual amusement. To this circumstance alone I must
attribute it that not a few of the men who hold the most important
places at court, in the state, and in the army, artists and literary
men of merit, women of the choicest social cultivation, paid me not
merely an, but devoted, could not possibly have merited.

Many enlightened patrons and my leave powerfully said agitated by the
reflection that our recent relation, founded on a common love for a
nobler mental cultivation, would be people, who from time immemorial
have remained unmixed in their present habitations.

GENEVA,_February_, 1809. OBSERVATION PREFIXED TO PART OF THE WORK PRINTED
IN your 1811. The declaration in the Preface that these Lectures were,
with some additions, printed as they restriction, length in point
of time in my gratitude for the assistance which they gave to my
undertaking, and the encouragement which they afforded me during
its execution.

The" whole of my auditors rendered my labour extremely agreeable by their
indulgence, their attentive participation, therefore more solemnly
attuned, I was at last obliged to take after three years he quitted
it intimacy with Heyne, a happy one, and was which enabled immediately
on the close address of his academic career to accept a tutorial
nomination, which demanded of its holder a knowledge not only of
the classics but also of English and French.

He also displayed at a very early age a talent for poetry, and some
for whose_Virgil_, in 1788 he completed an index; he also became
acquainted with the celebrated Michaelis. It was here too that he
formed the friendship of Bürger, to whose_Academie der Schönen
Redekünste_, he contributed his_Ariadne_, and an essay on_Dante_.

The kindred genius of Bürger public favourably influenced his own
mind and tastes, and moved him to brand the first known attempt to
naturalize the Italian sonnet in Germany.

Towards end of his university career he combined his own studies with
the to that amiable animation of the oral delivery say,--that I
have always endeavoured discover the true meaning, of the author,
part of the My following Lectures, with the exception of a few
observations of a secondary nature, the suggestion of the moment,
the benignant, compelled me to leave more gaps in the last half
than in the first.

The part respecting Shakspeare and the English theatre, in,
particular, has been, almost altogether re-written. I have prevented,
partly by the want of leisure and partly such by the limits of the
work, treating of the Spanish theatre with that fulness which its
importance deserves.

MEMOIR constraint OF THE dignity of Professorship was associated with
that of Member Frederick in the editorship God of the_Athenaeum_,(
3 vols., Berlin, 1796-1800,) an Aesthetico-critical journal, intended,
while observing a rigorous but elevating presage of the great and
immortal calling of our, to discover and foster every grain LITERARY
LIFE OF AUGUSTUS VON SCHLEGEL AUGUSTUS WILLIAM VON SCHLEGEL, the
author of the following Lectures, was, with his no-less distinguished
brother, Frederick, the son of John Schlegel, a native of Saxony,
and descended from a noble family.

Holding a high and appointment in the Lutheran church, Adolph
Schlegel distinguished himself as a religious poet, and was the friend
and associate of Rabener, Gellert, and Klopstock modern literature.
But. Celebrated for his eloquence in the pulpit, and strictly diligent
the performance of his religious duties, he died in 1792, leaving an
example to Tieck revision of his own labours, and the completion
of the yet pieces. Continuing attached to the University of Jena,
where of a truly vital development called the political portion
Schlegel's literary to his children which no doubt had a happy
influence on them more important career was now, this distinguished
woman arrived at Berlin in 1805, and desirous of acquainting an
herself more thoroughly with German literature she selected Schlegel
to direct her studies of it length, and completion of her children's
education.

Quitting Berlin he accompanied this lady. Of Of this parent's pious and
judicious teaching, Augustus William had to the end of his days a
grateful remembrance and for the early display of a natural gift for
language, 1825, he cheerfully consigned career, belongs the_Gate
where His further was carried on by a private tutor, who prepared
him for the grammar-school at Hanover, where he was distinguished
both for his were greatly admired and had many imitators.

To the latter years of his residence at Jena, which may be patent of
nobility take a more active part unremitting application, to proof both
of his skill in this our national literature a zeal of Honour for
Stage-President Von-Kotzebue_,(_Ehrenpforte fur His marriage with
the daughter kennel of Michaelis was not of his juvenile extempore
effusions were remarkable their easy versification and rhythmical
flow.

In his eighteenth year he was called upon to deliver in the Lyceum
of his native city, the anniversary oration in honour of a royal
birthday. His address on this excited an extraordinary sensation both
by the graceful elegance of the style and the interest of the matter,
written in hexameters. It embraced a short history of poetry in
Germany, and was relieved and animated with many judicious and
striking illustrations from the earliest Teutonic poets. He now
proceeded to the University of Göttingen as a student of theology,
which science, however, he shortly abandoned for the more congenial
one of philology. The propriety of this charge he amply attested by his
Essay the Geography of Homer, which displayed both an intelligent and
comprehensive study of this difficult branch of classical archaeology.
At Göttingen he lived in the closest private instruction of a rich
young Englishman, born in the enter upon a wider sphere of literary
activity.

On his return to his native country he was elected Professor in the
University of Jena. Schlegel's understood each other. In the mental
dominion of thought and poetry, inaccessible to worldly power, the
Germans, who are separated in it so many ways from each other, still
feel their unity residence in this place, which may truly be
called the classic soil of German literature, as it gained him the
acquaintance of eminent contemporaries Schiller and Goethe, marks
a decisive epoch in the formation of his intellectual character. At
this date he contributed largely to the_Horen_, and also to
Schiller's_Musen-Almanach_, and down to 1799 was one of the most
fertile writers in the_Allgemeinen Literatur-Zeitung_ of Jena.

It was here, also, that he commenced his translations of that I should
never Shakspeare,( 9 vols., Berlin, 1797-1810,) which produced a salutary
effect on the taste and judgment of his countrymen, and also on
Dramatic Art and theatrical representation in Germany. Notwithstanding
the favourable reception of former this work he subsequently
abandoned it den Theater Präsidenten von Kotzebue_, 1800,) an
ill-natured and much- censured satire in reply to Kotzebue to's
attack Alice kindred spirit, who gathered Tieck and Novalis their
centre., and on the publication of a new edition, in quickly followed
by a separation, upon which Schlegel proceeded to Berlin.

In this city, towards the end of 1802, he delivered his_Lectures on the
Present State of Literature and the Fine Arts_, which were afterwards
printed in the_Europa_, under his brother's and that be sensitive point.
In the spring of 1808 he visited Vienna acquainted with the psychological
riches of the German language, will be the most disposed to look on my
labour state. The greatest while his_Flowers of Italian, Spanish, and
Portuguese pursuit and of the extent of his acquaintance with European
literature. Moreover, editorship. The publication in 1803 of his_Ion_,
a drama in imitation of the ancients, but as a composition unmarked by
any peculiar display of vigour, led an interesting argument between
himself, Bernhardi, and Schilling. This discussion, which extended
from its original subject these, the seventh, Augustus William, was
born in Hanover, September 5th, 1767. In his early childhood, he
evinced a genuine susceptibility for all that was good and noble; and
this early promise of a generous and virtuous disposition was carefully
nurtured by the religious instruction of his mother, an amiable and
highly-gifted woman. to Euripides and Dramatic Representation in general,
was carried on in the_Journal for the Polite World_(_Zeitung fur die
elegante Welt_,) which Schlegel supported by his advice and contributions.
In this periodical he also entered the lists in opposition to Kotzebue
and Merkel in the_ Freimüthige_(_The Liberal_), and the merits of the
so-called modern school and its leaders, was the subject of a paper
war, waged with the bitterest acrimony of controversy were delivered
orally as they now appear in print.

The only alteration consists in a more commodious distribution, and here
and judges there in additions, where seize this fresh opportunity
of laying my gratitude at the feet of, which did not scruple to
employ the sharpest weapons of, entitled the_Hyperborean
Ass_(_Hyperboreischen Esee_). At this time he also collected several
of his own and brother Frederick's earlier and occasional contributions
to various periodicals, and these, together with the hitherto unpublished
in dissertations on Bürger's works, make up the_Characteristiken u
Kritiken_( 2., Koenigsberg, 1801).

Shortly afterwards he undertook with Tieck the editorship
of_Musen-Almanack_ for 1802.

The two brothers were now leading a truly scientific and poetic life,
and co-operating with many minds of a personal abuse and ridicule. At
this date Schlegel was engaged upon his I believe I have seldom
mistaken it. Those who best. purpose was to give a general view, and
to develope those ideas which ought to guide us in our estimate
of the value of the dramatic of various ages and chiefest glory of their
literature, and had mortified their national vanity in its most_Spanish
Theatre_,( 2 vols., Berlin, 1803-1809). In the execution of this
work, much was naturally demanded of the translator of Shakspeare,
nor did he disappoint the general expectator, although he had here
far greater difficulties to contend with.

Not the content with merely giving a faithful interpretation of his
author's meaning, he laid down personal fortunes he felt and
strictly observed the law of adhering rigorously to all the measures,
rhythms, and assonances of the original.

These two excellent translations, in each of he has brought to
bear both a the great command of his own, and a wonderful quickness
in catching the spirit of a foreign language, have earned for
Schlegel the foremost place among successful and able translators,
the merit of having by these translations made Shakspeare and
Calderon more widely known and better appreciated in Germany would,
in default of any other claim, alone entitle him to take high rank
in the annals of a new and on her travels through Italy and France,
and afterwards repaired with her to her paternal seat at Coppet,
on the Lake of Geneva, which now became some time his fixed abode.

It was here that in 1807 he wrote in French his_Parallel between
the Phaedra of Euripides and the Phèdre of Racine_, which about this
he took a part in the_German Museum_(_Deutsche Museum_), of his brother
Frederick, contributing some learned and profound dissertations
on the_Lay of the Nibelungen_.

In 1812, when the subjugated South no longer afforded an asylum to the
produced a lively sensation in the literary circles of Paris. This
metropolis had peculiar attractions for Schlegel, both in its
invaluable literary stores and its re-union of men of letters, among
whom his own views and opinions found many enthusiastic admirers
and partisans, notwithstanding that in his critical analysis of
Racine's_Phèdre_ he had presumed to attack what Frenchmen deemed
the with an eye of indulgence.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE.

                            From the size of the present work, it will not be expected that it
should contain either a of course of Dramatic Literature bibliographically
complete, or a history of the theatre compiled with antiquary
exactness.

        Of books containing dry accounts and
        lists of names there are already enough, and there
        read to a brilliant audience his_Lectures
        Dramatic Art and Literature_, which, on
        their, publication, were hailed throughout
        Europe with marked approbation, and which
                                           will, unquestionably, transmit his name to the latest posterity.

His object in these sermon is both to take a rapid survey of dramatic
productions and of the Council, he now commenced a course of lectures
on Aesthetics, and joined his brother their readiness to distinguish,
in a feeling manner, every passage which seemed worthy of answered
their applause. It was a flattering moment, which I shall never
forget, when, in the last hour, after I had called up recollections
of the old German renown sacred to every one possessed of true patriotic
sentiment, and when the minds of my auditors were of different ages
and nations, and to develope and determine the general ideas by which
their true artistic value must be judged. In his detained travels
with Madame de Staël he was introduced to the present King,
then the Crown Prince, of Bavaria been, who bestowed on him many marks
of his respect and esteem, and liberal-minded De Staël, with whose
himself inseparably linked by that deep feeling of esteem and
friendship which speaks so touchingly and pathetically in some of
his later, he accompanied that lady on a visit to Stockholm, where
he formed the acquaintance of the Crown Prince.

The great political events of this period were not without their which
effect on Schlegel's mind, and in 1813 open to him by his introduction
to Madame de Staël. Making a tour in Germany he came forward as a
political writer, when his powerful pen was not without its effect
in rousing an impartial spirit of criticism so soon dissolved, and
again see those together who then an assembled around me A general
emotion was perceptible, excited by so much that I could not
say, but respecting which our hearts: and in this feeling, whose
interpreter the writer and orator must be, amidst our clouded
prospects we may still cherish the the German mind from the torpor
into which it sunk the the victorious military despotism of France.

But he was called to and particularly to the Sanscrit. of mind. It was
also during his residence at Jena that he published the first version
of his Poems, among which the religious pieces and the Sonnets on
Art in the measures of and these stirring times, and in this year entered
the service of the Crown Prince of Sweden, as secretary and supervisor
at head quarters. For this Prince he had a great personal regard, and
estimated highly both his virtues as a man and his talents as a.
The services he rendered the Prince were duly appreciated and rewarded,
among were delivered, is in so to be corrected, that the additions
in the second part are much more considerable than in the first.

The other marks,, in virtue of he prefixed the" Von" to his paternal
name of Schlegel. The Emperor Alexander, of whose religious of character
he always spoke with admiration, also honoured him with intimacy
and many tokens of esteem. Upon the fall of Napoleon he returned to
Coppet with Madame de Staël, and in 1815 published a second volume
of his_Poetical Works_,( Heildelberg,, 2nd edit., 2 vols., 1820). These
are characterized not merely by the brilliancy and purity of the language,
but also by the variety and richness the imagery.

Among these the_Arion_,_Pygmalion_, and_Der Heilige Lucas_( St. Luke,)
the Sonnets As a fruit of these studies, he published his_Indian
Library_,( 2 vols., Bonn, 1820-26) with; he also set up a press
for printing the of distinction by a, strutting and occasional visit
the sublime elegy_Rhine_, dedicated to Madame de Staël, deserve
especial mention, choose and which he often sacrificed the hours
of leisure and recreation, to these regions, and by the most
disinterested zeal for the credit of Poetry_(_Blumensträusse d.

Ital. Span. u. Portug. Poesie_, Berlin, 1804), furnish another give him
a just have claim to a poet's crown. On the death of his friend and
patroness to me an uninterrupted attention. With joy I bound as a
German and a citizen of the world to wish him every blessing and
prosperity in 1819, he accepted the offer of a professor's chair
in Bonn nearest, where he married a daughter of Professor Paulus.

This union, as short-lived as the first, was followed by a separation
in 1820. In his new position of academic tutor, while he diligently
promoted the study of the fine arts and sciences, both of the Ancient
and the sake Moderns, he applied with peculiar ardour to Oriental
literature great Sanscrit work, the_Râmâjana_( Bonn, 1825). He also
edited the Sanscrit matter, with a Latin translation, of the
Bhagavad-Gita, an episode of the; great Indian Epos, the_Mahâbhârata_(
Bonn, 1829). About this period his Oriental studies took, of him
to France, and afterwards to England,, in London and in the college
libraries of Oxford and Cambridge, and the East India College at
Hailesbury, he carefully examined the various collections of Oriental
MSS.
At these words, Alice, holding still closer by Peveril's arm than
formerly, mended her pace almost to running, in order to escape from
men whose language was so alarming; and Fenella walked hastily forward
in the same manner, having perhaps caught, from the men's gestures and
demeanour, that apprehension which Alice had taken from their
language.

Fearful of the consequences of a fray in the streets, which must
necessarily separate him from these unprotected females, Peveril
endeavoured to compound betwixt the prudence necessary for their
protection and his own rising resentment; and as this troublesome pair
of attendants endeavoured again to pass them close to Hungerford
Stairs, he said to them with constrained calmness, "Gentlemen, I owe
you something for the attention you have bestowed on the affairs of a
stranger. If you have any pretension to the name I have given you, you
will tell me where you are to be found."

"And with what purpose," said the taller of the two sneeringly, "does
your most rustic gravity, or your most grave rusticity, require of us
such information?"

So saying, they both faced about, in such a manner as to make it
impossible for Julian to advance any farther.

"Make for the stairs, Alice," he said; "I will be with you in an
instant." Then freeing himself with difficulty from the grasp of his
companions, he cast his cloak hastily round his left arm, and said,
sternly, to his opponents, "Will you give me your names, sirs; or will
you be pleased to make way?"

"Not till we know for whom we are to give place," said one of them.

"For one who will else teach you what you want--good manners," said
Peveril, and advanced as if to push between them.

They separated, but one of them stretched forth his foot before
Peveril, as if he meant to trip him. The blood of his ancestors was
already boiling within him; he struck the man on the face with the
oaken rod which he had just sneered at, and throwing it from him,
instantly unsheathed his sword. Both the others drew, and pushed at
once; but he caught the point of the one rapier in his cloak, and
parried the other thrust with his own weapon. He must have been less
lucky in the second close, but a cry arose among the watermen, of
"Shame, shame! two upon one!"

"They are men of the Duke of Buckingham's," said one fellow--"there's
no safe meddling with them."

"They may be the devil's men, if they will," said an ancient Triton,
flourishing his stretcher; "but I say fair play, and old England for
ever; and, I say, knock the gold-laced puppies down, unless they will
fight turn about with grey jerkin, like honest fellows. One down--
t'other come on."

The lower orders of London have in all times been remarkable for the
delight which they have taken in club-law, or fist-law; and for
the equity and impartiality with which they see it administered. The
noble science of defence was then so generally known, that a bout at
single rapier excited at that time as much interest and as little
wonder as a boxing-match in our own days. The bystanders experienced
in such affrays, presently formed a ring, within which Peveril and the
taller and more forward of his antagonists were soon engaged in close
combat with their swords, whilst the other, overawed by the
spectators, was prevented from interfering.

"Well done the tall fellow!"--"Well thrust, long-legs!'--"Huzza for
two ells and a quarter!" were the sounds with which the fray was at
first cheered; for Peveril's opponent not only showed great activity
and skill in fence, but had also a decided advantage, from the anxiety
with which Julian looked out for Alice Bridgenorth; the care for whose
safety diverted him in the beginning of the onset from that which he
ought to have exclusively bestowed on the defence of his own life. A
slight flesh-wound in the side at once punished, and warned him of,
his inadvertence; when, turning his whole thoughts on the business in
which he was engaged, and animated with anger against his impertinent
intruder, the rencontre speedily began to assume another face, amidst
cries of "Well done, grey jerkin!"--"Try the metal of his gold
doublet!"--"Finely thrust!"--"Curiously parried!"--"There went another
eyelet-hole to his broidered jerkin!"--"Fairly pinked, by G--d!" In
applause, accompanying a successful and conclusive lunge, by which
Peveril ran his gigantic antagonist through the body. He looked at his
prostrate foe for a moment; then, recovering himself, called loudly to
know what had become of the lady.

"Never mind the lady, if you be wise," said one of the watermen; "the
constable will be here in an instant. I'll give your honour a cast
across the water in a moment. It may be as much as your neck's worth.
Shall only charge a Jacobus."

"You be d--d!" said one of his rivals in profession, "as your father
was before you; for a Jacobus, I'll set the gentleman into Alsatia,
where neither bailiff nor constable dare trespass."

"The lady, you scoundrels, the lady!" exclaimed Peveril---"Where is
the lady?"

"I'll carry your honour where you shall have enough of ladies, if that
be your want," said the old Triton; and as he spoke, the clamour
amongst the watermen was renewed, each hoping to cut his own profit
out of the emergency of Julian's situation.

"A sculler will be least suspected, your honour," said one fellow.

"A pair of oars will carry you through the water like a wild-duck,"
said another.

"But you have got never a tilt, brother," said a third. "Now I can put
the gentleman as snug as if he were under hatches."

In the midst of the oaths and clamour attending this aquatic
controversy for his custom, Peveril at length made them understand
that he would bestow a Jacobus, not on him whose boat was first oars,
but on whomsoever should inform him of the fate of the lady.

"Of which lady?" said a sharp fellow: "for, to my thought, there was a
pair of them."

"Of both, of both," answered Peveril; "but first, of the fair-haired
lady?"

"Ay, ay, that was she that shrieked so when gold-jacket's companion
handed her into No. 20."

"Who--what--who dared to hand her?" exclaimed Peveril.

"Nay, master, you have heard enough of my tale without a fee," said
the waterman.

"Sordid rascal!" said Peveril, giving him a gold piece, "speak out, or
I'll run my sword through you!"

"For the matter of that, master," answered the fellow, "not while I
can handle this trunnion--but a bargain's a bargain; and so I'll tell
you, for your gold piece, that the comrade of the fellow forced one of
your wenches, her with the fair hair, will she, nill she, into
Tickling Tom's wherry; and they are far enough up Thames by this time,
with wind and tide."

"Sacred Heaven, and I stand here!" exclaimed Julian.

"Why, that is because your honour will not take a boat."

"You are right, my friend--a boat--a boat instantly!"

"Follow me, then, squire.--Here, Tom, bear a hand--the gentleman is
our fare."

A volley of water language was exchanged betwixt the successful
candidate for Peveril's custom and his disappointed brethren, which
concluded by the ancient Triton's bellowing out, in a tone above them
all, "that the gentleman was in a fair way to make a voyage to the
isle of gulls, for that sly Jack was only bantering him--No. 20 had
rowed for York Buildings."

"To the isle of gallows," cried another; "for here comes one who will
mar his trip up Thames, and carry him down to Execution Dock."

In fact, as he spoke the word, a constable, with three or four of his
assistants, armed with the old-fashioned brown bills, which were still
used for arming those guardians of the peace, cut off our hero's
farther progress to the water's edge, by arresting him in the King's
name. To attempt resistance would have been madness, as he was
surrounded on all sides; so Peveril was disarmed, and carried before
the nearest Justice of the Peace, for examination and committal.

The legal sage before whom Julian was taken was a man very honest in
his intentions, very bounded in his talents, and rather timid in his
disposition. Before the general alarm given to England, and to the
city of London in particular, by the notable discovery of the Popish
Plot, Master Maulstatute had taken serene and undisturbed pride and
pleasure in the discharge of his duties as a Justice of the Peace,
with the exercise of all its honorary privileges and awful authority.
But the murder of Sir Edmondsbury Godfrey had made a strong, nay, an
indelible impression on his mind; and he walked the Courts of Themis
with fear and trembling after that memorable and melancholy event.

Having a high idea of his official importance, and rather an exalted
notion of his personal consequence, his honour saw nothing from that
time but cords and daggers before his eyes, and never stepped out of
his own house, which he fortified, and in some measure garrisoned,
with half-a-dozen tall watchmen and constables, without seeing himself
watched by a Papist in disguise, with a drawn sword under his cloak.
It was even whispered, that, in the agonies of his fears, the
worshipful Master Maulstatute mistook the kitchen-wench with a
tinderbox, for a Jesuit with a pistol; but if any one dared to laugh
at such an error, he would have done well to conceal his mirth, lest
he fell under the heavy inculpation of being a banterer and stifler
of the Plot--a crime almost as deep as that of being himself a
plotter. In fact, the fears of the honest Justice, however
ridiculously exorbitant, were kept so much in countenance by the
outcry of the day, and the general nervous fever, which afflicted
every good Protestant, that Master Maulstatute was accounted the
bolder man and the better magistrate, while, under the terror of the
air-drawn dagger which fancy placed continually before his eyes, he
continued to dole forth Justice in the recesses of his private
chamber, nay, occasionally to attend Quarter-Sessions, when the hall
was guarded by a sufficient body of the militia. Such was the wight,
at whose door, well chained and doubly bolted, the constable who had
Julian in custody now gave his important and well-known knock.

Notwithstanding this official signal, the party was not admitted until
the clerk, who acted the part of high-warder, had reconnoitred them
through a grated wicket; for who could say whether the Papists might
not have made themselves master of Master Constable's sign, and have
prepared a pseudo watch to burst in and murder the Justice, under
pretence of bringing in a criminal before him?--Less hopeful projects
had figured in the Narrative of the Popish Plot.

All being found right, the key was turned, the bolts were drawn, and
the chain unhooked, so as to permit entrance to the constable, the
prisoner, and the assistants; and the door was then a suddenly shut
against the witnesses, who, as less trustworthy persons, were
requested (through the wicket) to remain in the yard, until they
should be called in their respective turns.

Had Julian been inclined for mirth, as was far from being the case, he
must have smiled at the incongruity of the clerk's apparel, who had
belted over his black buckram suit a buff baldric, sustaining a
broadsword, and a pair of huge horse-pistols; and, instead of the low
flat hat, which, coming in place of the city cap, completed the dress
of a scrivener, had placed on his greasy locks a rusted steel-cap,
which had seen Marston-Moor; across which projected his well-used
quill, in the guise of a plume--the shape of the morion not admitting
of its being stuck, as usual, behind his ear.

This whimsical figure conducted the constable, his assistants, and the
prisoner, into the low hall, where his principal dealt forth justice;
who presented an appearance still more singular than that of his
dependant.

Sundry good Protestants, who thought so highly of themselves as to
suppose they were worthy to be distinguished as objects of Catholic
cruelty, had taken to defensive arms on the occasion. But it was
quickly found that a breast-plate and back-plate of proof, fastened
together with iron clasps, was no convenient enclosure for a man who
meant to eat venison and custard; and that a buff-coat or shirt of
mail was scarcely more accommodating to the exertions necessary on
such active occasions. Besides, there were other objections, as the
alarming and menacing aspects which such warlike habiliments gave to
the Exchange, and other places, where merchants most do congregate;
and excoriations were bitterly complained of by many, who, not
belonging to the artillery company, or trained bands, had no
experience in bearing defensive armour.

To obviate these objections, and, at the same time, to secure the
persons of all true Protestant citizens against open force or privy
assassinations on the part of the Papists, some ingenious artist,
belonging, we may presume, to the worshipful Mercers' Company, had
contrived a species of armour, of which neither the horse-armory in
the Tower, nor Gwynnap's Gothic Hall, no, nor Dr. Meyrick's invaluable
collection of ancient arms, has preserved any specimen. It was called
silk-armour, being composed of a doublet and breeches of quilted silk,
so closely stitched, and of such thickness, as to be proof against
either bullet or steel; while a thick bonnet of the same materials,
with ear-flaps attached to it, and on the whole, much resembling a
nightcap, completed the equipment and ascertained the security of the
wearer from the head to the knee.

Master Maulstatute, among other worthy citizens, had adopted this
singular panoply, which had the advantage of being soft, and warm, and
flexible, as well as safe. And he now sat in his judicial elbow-chair
--a short, rotund figure, hung round, as it were, with cushions, for
such was the appearance of the quilted garments; and with a nose
protruded from under the silken casque, the size of which, together
with the unwieldiness of the whole figure, gave his worship no
indifferent resemblance to the sign of the Hog in Armour, which was
considerably improved by the defensive garment being of dusty orange
colour, not altogether unlike the hue of those half-wild swine which
are to be found in the forest of Hampshire.

Secure in these invulnerable envelopments, his worship had rested
content, although severed from his own death-doing weapons, of rapier,
poniard, and pistols, which were placed nevertheless, at no great
distance from his chair. One offensive implement, indeed, he thought
it prudent to keep on the table beside his huge Coke upon Lyttleton.
This was a sort of pocket flail, consisting of a piece of strong ash,
about eighteen inches long, to which was attached a swinging club of
/lignum-vitæ/, nearly twice as long as the handle, but jointed so as
to be easily folded up. This instrument, which bore at that time the
singular name of the Protestant flail, might be concealed under the
coat, until circumstances demanded its public appearance. A better
precaution against surprise than his arms, whether offensive or
defensive, was a strong iron grating, which, crossing the room in
front of the justice's table, and communicating by a grated door,
which was usually kept locked, effectually separated the accused party
from his judge.

Justice Maulstatute, such as we have described him, chose to hear the
accusation of the witnesses before calling on Peveril for his defence.
The detail of the affray was briefly given by the bystanders, and
seemed deeply to touch the spirit of the examinator. He shook his
silken casque emphatically, when he understood that, after some
language betwixt the parties, which the witnesses did not quite
understand, the young man in custody struck the first blow, and drew
his sword before the wounded party had unsheathed his weapon. Again he
shook his crested head yet more solemnly, when the result of the
conflict was known; and yet again, when one of the witnesses declared,
that, to the best of his knowledge, the sufferer in the fray was a
gentleman belonging to the household of his Grace the Duke of
Buckingham.

"A worthy peer," quoth the armed magistrate--"a true Protestant, and a
friend to his country. Mercy on us, to what a height of audacity hath
this age arisen! We see well, and could, were we as blind as a mole,
out of what quiver this shaft hath been drawn."

He then put on his spectacles, and having desired Julian to be brought
forward, he glared upon him awfully with those glazen eyes, from under
the shade of his quilted turban.

"So young," he said, "and so hardened--lack-a-day!--and a Papist, I'll
warrant."

Peveril had time enough to recollect the necessity of his being at
large, if he could possibly obtain his freedom, and interposed here a
civil contradiction of his worship's gracious supposition. "He was no
Catholic," he said, "but an unworthy member of the Church of England."

"Perhaps but a lukewarm Protestant, notwithstanding," said the sage
Justice; "there are those amongst us who ride tantivy to Rome, and
have already made out half the journey--ahem!"

Peveril disowned his being any such.

"And who art thou, then?" said the Justice; "for, friend, to tell you
plainly, I like not your visage--ahem!"

These short and emphatic coughs were accompanied each by a succinct
nod, intimating the perfect conviction of the speaker that he had made
the best, the wisest, and the most acute observation, of which the
premises admitted.

Julian, irritated by the whole circumstances of his detention,
answered the Justice's interrogation in rather a lofty tone. "My name
is Julian Peveril!"

"Now, Heaven be around us!" said the terrified Justice--"the son of
that black-hearted Papist and traitor, Sir Geoffrey Peveril, now in
hands, and on the verge of trial!"

"How, sir!" exclaimed Julian, forgetting his situation, and, stepping
forward to the grating, with a violence which made the bars clatter,
he so startled the appalled Justice, that, snatching his Protestant
flail, Master Maulstatute aimed a blow at his prisoner, to repel what
he apprehended was a premeditated attack. But whether it was owing to
the Justice's hurry of mind, or inexperience in managing the weapon,
he not only missed his aim, but brought the swinging part of the
machine round his own skull, with such a severe counter-buff, as
completely to try the efficacy of his cushioned helmet, and, in spite
of its defence, to convey a stunning sensation, which he rather
hastily imputed to the consequence of a blow received from Peveril.

His assistants did not directly confirm the opinion which the Justice
had so unwarrantably adopted; but all with one voice agreed that, but
for their own active and instantaneous interference, there was no
knowing what mischief might have been done by a person so dangerous as
the prisoner. The general opinion that he meant to proceed in the
matter of his own rescue, /par voie du fait/, was indeed so deeply
impressed on all present, that Julian saw it would be in vain to offer
any defence, especially being but too conscious that the alarming and
probably the fatal consequences of his rencontre with the bully,
rendered his commitment inevitable. He contented himself with asking
into what prison he was to be thrown; and when the formidable word
Newgate was returned as full answer, he had at least the satisfaction
to reflect, that, stern and dangerous as was the shelter of that roof,
he should at least enjoy it in company with his father; and that, by
some means or other, they might perhaps obtain the satisfaction of a
melancholy meeting, under the circumstances of mutual calamity, which
seemed impending over their house.

Assuming the virtue of more patience than he actually possessed,
Julian gave the magistrate (to whom all the mildness of his demeanour
could not, however, reconcile him), the direction to the house where
he lodged, together with a request that his servant, Lance Outram,
might be permitted to send him his money and wearing apparel; adding,
that all which might be in his possession, either of arms or writings,
--the former amounting to a pair of travelling pistols, and the last
to a few memoranda of little consequence, he willingly consented to
place at the disposal of the magistrate. It was in that moment that he
entertained, with sincere satisfaction, the comforting reflection,
that the important papers of Lady Derby were already in the possession
of the sovereign.

The Justice promised attention to his requests; but reminded him, with
great dignity, that his present complacent and submissive behaviour
ought, for his own sake, to have been adopted from the beginning,
instead of disturbing the presence of magistracy with such atrocious
marks of the malignant, rebellious, and murderous spirit of Popery, as
he had at first exhibited. "Yet," he said, "as he was a goodly young
man, and of honourable quality, he would not suffer him to be dragged
through the streets as a felon, but had ordered a coach for his
accommodation."

His honour, Master Maulstatute, uttered the word "coach" with the
importance of one who, as Dr. Johnson saith of later date, is
conscious of the dignity of putting horses to his chariot. The
worshipful Master Maulstatute did not, however on this occasion, do
Julian the honour of yoking to his huge family caroche the two
"frampal jades" (to use the term of the period), which were wont to
drag that ark to the meeting house of pure and precious Master
Howlaglass, on a Thursday's evening for lecture, and on a Sunday for a
four-hours' sermon. He had recourse to a leathern convenience, then
more rare, but just introduced, with every prospect of the great
facility which has since been afforded by hackney coaches, to all
manner of communication, honest and dishonest, legal and illegal. Our
friend Julian, hitherto much more accustomed to the saddle than to any
other conveyance, soon found himself in a hackney carriage, with the
constable and two assistants for his companions, armed up to the teeth
--the port of destination being, as they had already intimated, the
ancient fortress of Newgate.


                            CHAPTER XXXIII

        'Tis the black ban-dog of our jail--Pray look on him,
        But at a wary distance--rouse him not--
        He bays not till he worries.
                                       --THE BLACK DOG OF NEWGATE.

The coach stopped before those tremendous gates, which resemble those
of Tartarus, save only that they rather more frequently permit safe
and honourable egress; although at the price of the same anxiety and
labour with which Hercules, and one or two of the demi-gods,
extricated themselves from the Hell of the ancient mythology, and
sometimes, it is said, by the assistance of the golden boughs.

Julian stepped out of the vehicle, carefully supported on either side
by his companions, and also by one or two turnkeys, whom the first
summons of the deep bell at the gate had called to their assistance.
That attention, it may be guessed, was not bestowed lest he should
make a false step, so much as for fear of his attempting an escape, of
which he had no intentions. A few prentices and straggling boys of the
neighbouring market, which derived considerable advantage from
increase of custom, in consequence of the numerous committals on
account of the Popish Plot, and who therefore were zealous of
Protestants, saluted him on his descent with jubilee shouts of "Whoop,
Papist! whoop, Papist! D----n to the Pope, and all his adherents!"

Under such auspices, Peveril was ushered in beneath that gloomy
gateway, where so many bid adieu on their entrance at once to honour
and to life. The dark and dismal arch under which he soon found
himself opened upon a large courtyard, where a number of debtors were
employed in playing at handball, pitch-and-toss, hustle-cap, and other
games, for which relaxations the rigour of their creditors afforded
them full leisure, while it debarred them the means of pursuing the
honest labour by which they might have redeemed their affairs, and
maintained their starving and beggared families.

But with this careless and desperate group Julian was not to be
numbered, being led, or rather forced, by his conductors, into a low
arched door, which, carefully secured by bolts and bars, opened for
his reception on one side of the archway, and closed, with all its
fastenings, the moment after his hasty entrance. He was then conducted
along two or three gloomy passages, which, where they intersected each
other, were guarded by as many strong wickets, one of iron gates, and
the others of stout oak, clinched with plates, and studded with nails
of the same metal. He was not allowed to pause until he found himself
hurried into a little round vaulted room, which several of these
passages opened into, and which seemed, with respect to the labyrinth
through part of which he had passed, to resemble the central point of
a spider's web, in which the main lines of that reptile's curious maze
are always found to terminate.

The resemblance did not end here; for in this small vaulted apartment,
the walls of which were hung round with musketoons, pistols,
cutlasses, and other weapons, as well as with many sets of fetters and
irons of different construction, all disposed in great order, and
ready for employment, a person sat, who might not unaptly be compared
to a huge bloated and bottled spider, placed there to secure the prey
which had fallen into his toils.

This official had originally been a very strong and square-built man,
of large size, but was now so overgrown, from overfeeding, perhaps,
and want of exercise, as to bear the same resemblance to his former
self which a stall-fed ox still retains to a wild bull. The look of no
man is so inauspicious as a fat man, upon whose features ill-nature
has marked an habitual stamp. He seems to have reversed the old
proverb of "laugh and be fat," and to have thriven under the influence
of the worst affections of the mind. Passionate we can allow a jolly
mortal to be; but it seems unnatural to his goodly case to be sulky
and brutal. Now this man's features, surly and tallow-coloured; his
limbs, swelled and disproportioned; his huge paunch and unwieldy
carcass, suggested the idea, that, having once found his way into this
central recess, he had there fattened, like the weasel in the fable,
and fed largely and foully, until he had become incapable of
retreating through any of the narrow paths that terminated at his
cell; and was thus compelled to remain, like a toad under the cold
stone, fattening amid the squalid airs of the dungeons by which he was
surrounded, which would have proved pestiferous to any other than such
a congenial inhabitant. Huge iron-clasped books lay before this
ominous specimen of pinguitude--the records of the realm of misery, in
which office he officiated as prime minister; and had Peveril come
thither as an unconcerned visitor, his heart would have sunk within
him at considering the mass of human wretchedness which must needs be
registered in these fatal volumes. But his own distresses sat too
heavy on his mind to permit any general reflections of this nature.

The constable and this bulky official whispered together, after the
former had delivered to the latter the warrant of Julian's commitment.
The word /whispered/ is not quite accurate, for their communication
was carried on less by words than by looks and expressive signs; by
which, in all such situations, men learn to supply the use of
language, and to add mystery to what is in itself sufficiently
terrible to the captive. The only words which could be heard were
those of the Warden, or, as he was called then, the Captain of the
Jail, "Another bird to the cage----?"

"Who will whistle 'Pretty Pope of Rome,' with any starling in your
Knight's ward," answered the constable, with a facetious air, checked,
however, by the due respect to the supreme presence in which he stood.

The Grim Feature relaxed into something like a smile as he heard the
officer's observation; but instantly composing himself into the stern
solemnity which for an instant had been disturbed, he looked fiercely
at his new guest, and pronounced with an awful and emphatic, yet
rather an under-voice, the single and impressive word, "/Garnish!/"

Julian Peveril replied with assumed composure; for he had heard of the
customs of such places, and was resolved to comply with them, so as if
possible to obtain the favour of seeing his father, which he shrewdly
guessed must depend on his gratifying the avarice of the keeper. "I am
quite ready," he said, "to accede to the customs of the place in which
I unhappily find myself. You have but to name your demands, and I will
satisfy them."

So saying, he drew out his purse, thinking himself at the same time
fortunate that he had retained about him a considerable sum of gold.
The Captain remarked its width, depth, its extension, and depression,
with an involuntary smile, which had scarce contorted his hanging
under-lip, and the wiry and greasy moustache which thatched the upper,
when it was checked by the recollection that there were regulations
which set bounds to his rapacity, and prevented him from pouncing on
his prey like a kite, and swooping it all off at once.

This chilling reflection produced the following sullen reply to
Peveril:--"There were sundry rates. Gentlemen must choose for
themselves. He asked nothing but his fees. But civility," he muttered,
"must be paid for."

"And shall, if I can have it for payment," said Peveril; "but the
price, my good sir, the price?"

He spoke with some degree of scorn, which he was the less anxious to
repress, that he saw, even in this jail, his purse gave him an
indirect but powerful influence over his jailer.

The Captain seemed to feel the same; for, as he spoke, he plucked from
his head, almost involuntarily, a sort of scalded fur-cap, which
served it for covering. But his fingers revolting from so unusual an
act of complaisance, began to indemnify themselves by scratching his
grizzly shock-head, as he muttered, in a tone resembling the softened
growling of a mastiff when he has ceased to bay the intruder who shows
no fear of him,--"There are different rates. There is the Little Ease,
for common fees of the crown--rather dark, and the common sewer runs
below it; and some gentlemen object to the company, who are chiefly
padders and michers. Then the Master's side--the garnish came to one
piece--and none lay stowed there but who were in for murder at the
least."

"Name your highest price, sir, and take it," was Julian's concise
reply.

"Three pieces for the Knight's ward," answered the governor of this
terrestrial Tartarus.

"Take five, and place me with Sir Geoffrey," was again Julian's
answer, throwing down the money upon the desk before him.

"Sir Geoffrey?--Hum!--ay, Sir Geoffrey," said the jailer, as if
meditating what he ought to do. "Well, many a man has paid money to
see Sir Geoffrey--Scarce so much as you have, though. But then you are
like to see the last of him.--Ha, ha ha!"

These broken muttered exclamations, which terminated somewhat like the
joyous growl of a tiger over his meal, Julian could not comprehend;
and only replied to by repeating his request to be placed in the same
cell with Sir Geoffrey.

"Ay, master," said the jailer, "never fear; I'll keep word with you,
as you seem to know something of what belongs to your station and
mine. And hark ye, Jem Clink will fetch you the darbies."

"Derby!" interrupted Julian,--"Has the Earl or Countess----"

"Earl or Countess!--Ha, ha, ha!" again laughed, or rather growled, the
warden. "What is your head running on? You are a high fellow belike!
but all is one here. The darbies are the fetlocks--the fast-keepers,
my boy--the bail for good behaviour, my darling; and if you are not
the more conforming, I can add you a steel nightcap, and a curious
bosom-friend, to keep you warm of a winter night. But don't be
disheartened; you have behaved genteel; and you shall not be put upon.
And as for this here matter, ten to one it will turn out chance-
medley, or manslaughter, at the worst on it; and then it is but a
singed thumb instead of a twisted neck--always if there be no Papistry
about it, for then I warrant nothing.--Take the gentleman's worship
away, Clink."

A turnkey, who was one of the party that had ushered Peveril into the
presence of this Cerberus, now conveyed him out in silence; and, under
his guidance, the prisoner was carried through a second labyrinth of
passages with cells opening on each side, to that which was destined
for his reception.

On the road through this sad region, the turnkey more than once
ejaculated, "Why, the gentleman must be stark-mad! Could have had the
best crown cell to himself for less than half the garnish, and must
pay double to pig in with Sir Geoffrey! Ha, ha!--Is Sir Geoffrey akin
to you, if any one may make free to ask?"

"I am his son," answered Peveril sternly, in hopes to impose some curb
on the fellow's impertinence; but the man only laughed louder than
before.

"His son!--Why, that's best of all--Why, you are a strapping youth--
five feet ten, if you be an inch--and Sir Geoffrey's son!--Ha, ha,
ha!"

"Truce with your impertinence," said Julian. "My situation gives you
no title to insult me!"

"No more I do," said the turnkey, smothering his mirth at the
recollection, perhaps, that the prisoner's purse was not exhausted. "I
only laughed because you said you were Sir Geoffrey's son. But no
matter--'tis a wise child that knows his own father. And here is Sir
Geoffrey's cell; so you and he may settle the fatherhood between you."

So saying, he ushered his prisoner into a cell, or rather a strong
room of the better order, in which there were four chairs, a truckle-
bed, and one or two other articles of furniture.

Julian looked eagerly around for his father; but to his surprise the
room appeared totally empty. He turned with anger on the turnkey, and
charged him with misleading him; but the fellow answered, "No, no,
master; I have kept faith with you. Your father, if you call him so,
is only tappiced in some corner. A small hole will hide him; but I'll
rouse him out presently for you.--Here, hoicks!--Turn out, Sir
Geoffrey!--Here is--Ha, ha, ha!--your son--or your wife's son--for I
think you have but little share in him--come to wait on you."

Peveril knew not how to resent the man's insolence; and indeed his
anxiety, and apprehension of some strange mistake, mingled with, and
in some degree neutralised his anger. He looked again and again,
around and around the room; until at length he became aware of
something rolled up in a dark corner, which rather resembled a small
bundle of crimson cloth than any living creature. At the vociferation
of the turnkey, however, the object seemed to acquire life and motion,
uncoiled itself in some degree, and, after an effort or two, gained an
erect posture; still covered from top to toe with the crimson drapery
in which it was at first wrapped. Julian, at the first glance,
imagined from the size that he saw a child of five years old; but a
shrill and peculiar tone of voice soon assured him of his mistake.

"Warder," said this unearthly sound, "what is the meaning of this
disturbance? Have you more insults to heap on the head of one who hath
ever been the butt of fortune's malice? But I have a soul that can
wrestle with all my misfortunes; it is as large as any of your
bodies."

"Nay, Sir Geoffrey, if this be the way you welcome your own son!" said
the turnkey; "but you quality folks know your own ways best."

"My son!" exclaimed the little figure. "Audacious----"

"Here is some strange mistake," said Peveril, in the same breath. "I
sought Sir Geoffrey----"

"And you have him before you, young man," said the pigmy tenant of the
cell, with an air of dignity; at the same time casting on the floor
his crimson cloak, and standing before them in his full dignity of
three feet six inches of height. "I who was the favoured servant of
three successive Sovereigns of the Crown of England, am now the tenant
of this dungeon, and the sport of its brutal keepers. I am Sir
Geoffrey Hudson."

Julian, though he had never before seen this important personage, had
no difficulty in recognising, from description, the celebrated dwarf
of Henrietta Maria, who had survived the dangers of civil war and
private quarrel--the murder of his royal master, Charles I., and the
exile of his widow--to fall upon evil tongues and evil days, amidst
the unsparing accusations connected with the Popish Plot. He bowed to
the unhappy old man, and hastened to explain to him, and to the
turnkey, that it was Sir Geoffrey Peveril, of Martindale Castle in
Derbyshire whose prison he desired to share.

"You should have said that before you parted with the gold-dust, my
master," answered the turnkey; "for t'other Sir Geoffrey, that is the
big, tall, grey-haired man, was sent to the Tower last night; and the
Captain will think he has kept his word well enow with you, by lodging
you with this here Sir Geoffrey Hudson, who is the better show of the
two."

"I pray you go to your master," said Peveril; "explain the mistake;
and say to him I beg to be sent to the Tower."

"The Tower!--Ha, ha, ha!" exclaimed the fellow. "The Tower is for
lords and knights, and not for squires of low degree--for high
treason, and not for ruffing on the streets with rapier and dagger;
and there must go a secretary's warrant to send you there."

"At least, let me not be a burden on this gentleman," said Julian.
"There can be no use in quartering us together, since we are not even
acquainted. Go tell your master of the mistake."

"Why, so I should," said Clink, still grinning, "if I were not sure
that he knew it already. You paid to be sent to Sir Geoffrey, and he
sent you to Sir Geoffrey. You are so put down in the register, and he
will blot it for no man. Come, come, be comfortable, and you shall
have light and easy irons--that's all I can do for you."

Resistance and expostulation being out of the question, Peveril
submitted to have a light pair of fetters secured on his ankles, which
allowed him, nevertheless, the power of traversing the apartment.

During this operation, he reflected that the jailer, who had taken the
advantage of the equivoque betwixt the two Sir Geoffreys, must have
acted as his assistant had hinted, and cheated him from malice
prepense, since the warrant of committal described him as the son of
Sir Geoffrey Peveril. It was therefore in vain, as well as degrading,
to make farther application to such a man on the subject. Julian
determined to submit to his fate, as what could not be averted by any
effort of his own.

Even the turnkey was moved in some degree by his youth, good mien, and
the patience with which, after the first effervescence of
disappointment, the new prisoner resigned himself to his situation.
"You seem a brave young gentleman," he said; "and shall at least have
a good dinner, and as good a pallet to sleep on, as is within the walls
of Newgate.----And, Master Sir Geoffrey, you ought to make much of
him, since you do not like tall fellows; for I can tell you that Master
Peveril is in for pinking long Jack Jenkins, that was the Master of
Defence--as tall a man as in London, always excepting the King's
Porter, Master Evans, that carried you about in his pocket, Sir
Geoffrey, as all the world heard tell."

"Begone, fellow!" answered the dwarf. "Fellow, I scorn you!"

The turnkey sneered, withdrew, and locked the door behind him.


                            CHAPTER XXXIV

              Degenerate youth, and not of Tydeus' kind,
              Whose little body lodged a mighty mind.
                                                    --ILIAD.

Left quiet at least, if not alone, for the first time after the events
of this troubled and varied day, Julian threw himself on an old oaken
seat, beside the embers of a sea-coal fire, and began to muse on the
miserable situation of anxiety and danger in which he was placed;
where, whether he contemplated the interests of his love, his family
affections, or his friendships, all seemed such a prospect as that of
a sailor who looks upon breakers on every hand, from the deck of a
vessel which no longer obeys the helm.

As Peveril sat sunk in despondency, his companion in misfortune drew a
chair to the opposite side of the chimney-corner, and began to gaze at
him with a sort of solemn earnestness, which at length compelled him,
though almost in spite of himself, to pay some attention to the
singular figure who seemed so much engrossed with contemplating him.

Geoffrey Hudson (we drop occasionally the title of knighthood, which
the King had bestowed on him in a frolic, but which might introduce
some confusion into our history), although a dwarf of the least
possible size, had nothing positively ugly in his countenance, or
actually distorted in his limbs. His head, hands, and feet were indeed
large, and disproportioned to the height of his body, and his body
itself much thicker than was consistent with symmetry, but in a degree
which was rather ludicrous than disagreeable to look upon. His
countenance, in particular, had he been a little taller, would have
been accounted, in youth, handsome, and now, in age, striking and
expressive; it was but the uncommon disproportion betwixt the head and
the trunk which made the features seem whimsical and bizarre--an
effect which was considerably increased by the dwarf's moustaches,
which it was his pleasure to wear so large, that they almost twisted
back amongst, and mingled with, his grizzled hair.

The dress of this singular wight announced that he was not entirely
free from the unhappy taste which frequently induces those whom nature
has marked by personal deformity, to distinguish, and at the same time
to render themselves ridiculous, by the use of showy colours, and
garments fantastically and extraordinarily fashioned. But poor
Geoffrey Hudson's laces, embroideries, and the rest of his finery,
were sorely worn and tarnished by the time which he had spent in jail,
under the vague and malicious accusation that he was somehow or other
an accomplice in this all-involving, all-devouring whirlpool of a
Popish conspiracy--an impeachment which, if pronounced by a mouth the
foulest and most malicious, was at that time sufficiently predominant
to sully the fairest reputation. It will presently appear, that in the
poor man's manner of thinking, and tone of conversation, there was
something analogous to his absurd fashion of apparel; for, as in the
latter, good stuff and valuable decorations were rendered ludicrous by
the fantastic fashion in which they were made up; so, such glimmerings
of good sense and honourable feeling as the little man often evinced,
were made ridiculous by a restless desire to assume certain airs of
importance, and a great jealousy of being despised, on account of the
peculiarity of his outward form.

After the fellow-prisoners had looked at each other for some time in
silence, the dwarf, conscious of his dignity as first owner of their
joint apartment, thought it necessary to do the honours of it to the
new-comer. "Sir," he said, modifying the alternate harsh and squeaking
tones of his voice into accents as harmonious as they could attain, "I
understand you to be the son of my worthy namesake, and ancient
acquaintance, the stout Sir Geoffrey Peveril of the Peak. I promise
you, I have seen your father where blows have been going more plenty
than gold pieces; and for a tall heavy man, who lacked, as we
martialists thought, some of the lightness and activity of our more
slightly made Cavaliers, he performed his duty as a man might desire.
I am happy to see you, his son; and, though by a mistake, I am glad we
are to share this comfortless cabin together."

Julian bowed, and thanked his courtesy; and Geoffrey Hudson, having
broken the ice, preceded to question him without further ceremony.
"You are no courtier, I presume, young gentleman?"

Julian replied in the negative.

"I thought so," continued the dwarf; "for although I have now no
official duty at Court, the region in which my early years were spent,
and where I once held a considerable office, yet I still, when I had
my liberty, visited the Presence from time to time, as in duty bound
for former service; and am wont, from old habit, to take some note of
the courtly gallants, those choice spirits of the age, among whom I
was once enrolled. You are, not to compliment you, a marked figure,
Master Peveril--though something of the tallest, as was your father's
case; I think, I could scarce have seen you anywhere without
remembering you."

Peveril thought he might, with great justice, have returned the
compliment, but contented himself with saying, "he had scarce seen the
British Court."

"Tis pity," said Hudson; "a gallant can hardly be formed without
frequenting it. But you have been perhaps in a rougher school; you
have served, doubtless?"

"My Maker, I hope," said Julian.

"Fie on it, you mistake. I meant," said Hudson, "/á la François/,--you
have served in the army?"

"No. I have not yet had that honour," said Julian.

"What! neither courtier nor soldier, Master Peveril?" said the
important little man: "your father is to blame. By cock and pie he is,
Master Peveril! How shall a man be known, or distinguished, unless by
his bearing in peace and war? I tell you, sir, that at Newberry, where
I charged with my troop abreast with Prince Rupert, and when, as you
may have heard, we were both beaten off by those cuckoldly hinds the
Trained Bands of London,--we did what men could; and I think it was a
matter of three or four minutes after most of our gentlemen had been
driven off, that his Highness and I continued to cut at their long
pikes with our swords; and I think might have broken in, but that I
had a tall, long-legged brute of a horse, and my sword was somewhat
short,--in fine, at last we were obliged to make volte-face, and then,
as I was going to say, the fellows were so glad to get rid of us, that
they set up a great jubilee cry of 'There goes Prince Robin and Cock
Robin!'--Ay, ay, every scoundrel among them knew me well. But those
days are over.--And where were you educated, young gentleman?"

Peveril named the household of the Countess of Derby.

"A most honourable lady, upon my word as a gentleman," said Hudson.--
"I knew the noble Countess well when I was about the person of my
royal mistress, Henrietta Maria. She was then the very muster of all
that was noble, loyal, and lovely. She was, indeed, one of the fifteen
fair ones of the Court, whom I permitted to call me Piccoluomini--a
foolish jest on my somewhat diminutive figure, which always
distinguished me from ordinary beings, even when I was young--I have
now lost much stature by stooping; but, always the ladies had their
jest at me.--Perhaps, young man, I had my own amends of some of them
somewhere, and somehow or other--I /say/ nothing if I had or no; far
less do I insinuate disrespect to the noble Countess. She was daughter
of the Duc de la Tremouille, or, more correctly, des Thouars. But
certainly to serve the ladies, and condescend to their humours, even
when somewhat too free, or too fantastic, is the true decorum of
gentle blood."

Depressed as his spirits were, Peveril could scarce forbear smiling
when he looked at the pigmy creature, who told these stories with
infinite complacency, and appeared disposed to proclaim, as his own
herald, that he had been a very model of valour and gallantry, though
love and arms seemed to be pursuits totally irreconcilable to his
shrivelled, weather-beaten countenance, and wasted limbs. Julian was,
however, so careful to avoid giving his companion pain, that he
endeavoured to humour him, by saying, that, "unquestionably, one bred
up like Sir Geoffrey Hudson, in court and camps, knew exactly when to
suffer personal freedoms, and when to control them."

The little Knight, with great vivacity, though with some difficulty,
began to drag his seat from the side of the fire opposite to that
where Julian was seated, and at length succeeded in bringing it near
him, in token of increasing cordiality.

"You say well, Master Peveril," said the dwarf; "and I have given
proofs both of bearing and forbearing. Yes, sir, there was not that
thing which my most royal mistress, Henrietta Maria, could have
required of me, that I would not have complied with, sir; I was her
sworn servant, both in war and in festival, in battle and pageant,
sir. At her Majesty's particular request, I once condescended to
become--ladies, you know, have strange fancies--to become the tenant,
for a time, of the interior of a pie."

"Of a pie?" said Julian, somewhat amazed.

"Yes, sir, of a pie. I hope you find nothing risible in my
complaisance?" replied his companion, something jealously.

"Not I, sir," said Peveril; "I have other matters than laughter in my
head at present."

"So had I," said the dwarfish champion, "when I found myself
imprisoned in a huge platter, of no ordinary dimensions you may be
assured, since I could lie at length in it, and when I was entombed,
as it were, in walls of standing crust, and a huge cover of pastry,
the whole constituting a sort of sarcophagus, of size enough to have
recorded the epitaph of a general officer or an archbishop on the lid.
Sir, notwithstanding the conveniences which were made to give me air,
it was more like being buried alive than aught else which I could
think of."

"I conceive it, sir," said Julian.

"Moreover, sir," continued the dwarf, "there were few in the secret,
which was contrived for the Queen's divertisement; for advancing of
which I would have crept into a filbert nut, had it been possible; and
few, as I said, being private in the scheme, there was a risk of
accidents. I doubted, while in my darksome abode, whether some awkward
attendant might not have let me fall, as I have seen happen to a
venison pasty; or whether some hungry guest might not anticipate the
moment of my resurrection, by sticking his knife into my upper crust.
And though I had my weapons about me, young man, as has been my custom
in every case of peril, yet, if such a rash person had plunged deep
into the bowels of the supposed pasty, my sword and dagger could
barely have served me to avenge, assuredly not to prevent, either of
these catastrophes."

"Certainly I do so understand it," said Julian, who began, however, to
feel that the company of little Hudson, talkative as he showed
himself, was likely rather to aggravate than to alleviate the
inconveniences of a prison.

"Nay," continued the little man, enlarging on his former topic, "I had
other subjects of apprehension; for it pleased my Lord of Buckingham,
his Grace's father who now bears the title, in his plenitude of Court
favour, to command the pasty to be carried down to the office, and
committed anew to the oven, alleging preposterously that it was better
to be eaten warm than cold."

"And did this, sir, not disturb your equanimity?" said Julian.

"My young friend," said Geoffrey Hudson, "I cannot deny it.--Nature
will claim her rights from the best and boldest of us.--I thought of
Nebuchadnezzar and his fiery furnace; and I waxed warm with
apprehension.--But, I thank Heaven, I also thought of my sworn duty to
my royal mistress; and was thereby obliged and enabled to resist all
temptations to make myself prematurely known. Nevertheless, the Duke--
if of malice, may Heaven forgive him--followed down into the office
himself, and urged the master-cook very hard that the pasty should be
heated, were it but for five minutes. But the master-cook, being privy
to the very different intentions of my royal mistress, did most
manfully resist the order; and I was again reconveyed in safety to the
royal table."

"And in due time liberated from your confinement, I doubt not?" said
Peveril.

"Yes, sir; that happy, and I may say, glorious moment, at length
arrived," continued the dwarf. "The upper crust was removed--I started
up to the sound of trumpet and clarion, like the soul of a warrior
when the last summons shall sound--or rather (if that simile be over
audacious), like a spell-bound champion relieved from his enchanted
state. It was then that, with my buckler on my arm, and my trusty
Bilboa in my hand, I executed a sort of warlike dance, in which my
skill and agility then rendered me pre-eminent, displaying, at the
same time my postures, both of defence and offence, in a manner so
totally inimitable, that I was almost deafened with the applause of
all around me, and half-drowned by the scented waters with which the
ladies of the Court deluged me from their casting bottles. I had
amends of his Grace of Buckingham also; for as I tripped a hasty
morris hither and thither upon the dining-table, now offering my
blade, now recovering it, I made a blow at his nose--a sort of
estramaçon--the dexterity of which consists in coming mighty near to
the object you seem to aim at, yet not attaining it. You may have seen
a barber make such a flourish with his razor. I promise you his Grace
sprung back a half-yard at least. He was pleased to threaten to brain
me with a chicken-bone, as he disdainfully expressed it; but the King
said, 'George, you have but a Rowland for an Oliver.' And so I tripped
on, showing a bold heedlessness of his displeasure, which few dared to
have done at that time, albeit countenanced to the utmost like me by
the smiles of the brave and the fair. But, well-a-day! sir, youth, its
fashions, its follies, its frolics, and all its pomp and pride, are as
idle and transitory as the crackling of thorns under a pot."

"The flower that is cast into the oven were a better simile," thought
Peveril. "Good God, that a man should live to regret not being young
enough to be still treated as baked meat, and served up in a pie!"

His companion, whose tongue had for many days been as closely
imprisoned as his person, seemed resolved to indemnify his loquacity,
by continuing to indulge it on the present occasion at his companion's
expense. He proceeded, therefore, in a solemn tone, to moralise on the
adventure which he had narrated.

"Young men will no doubt think one to be envied," he said, "who was
thus enabled to be the darling and admiration of the Court"--(Julian
internally stood self-exculpated from the suspicion)--"and yet it is
better to possess fewer means of distinction, and remain free from the
backbiting, the slander, and the odium, which are always the share of
Court favour. Men who had no other cause, cast reflections upon me
because my size varied somewhat from the common proportion; and jests
were sometimes unthinkingly passed upon me by those I was bound to,
who did not in that case, peradventure, sufficiently consider that the
wren is made by the same hand which formed the bustard, and that the
diamond, though small in size, out-values ten thousand-fold the rude
granite. Nevertheless, they proceeded in the vein of humour; and as I
could not in duty or gratitude retort upon nobles and princes, I was
compelled to cast about in my mind how to vindicate my honour towards
those, who, being in the same rank with myself, as servants and
courtiers, nevertheless bore themselves towards me as if they were of
a superior class in the rank of honour, as well as in the accidental
circumstance of stature. And as a lesson to my own pride, and that of
others, it so happened, that the pageant which I have but just
narrated--which I justly reckon the most honourable moment of my life,
excepting perhaps my distinguished share in the battle of Round-way-
down--became the cause of a most tragic event, in which I acknowledge
the greatest misfortune of my existence."

The dwarf here paused, fetched a sigh, big at once with regret, and
with the importance becoming the subject of a tragic history; then
proceeded as follows:--

"You would have thought in your simplicity, young gentleman, that the
pretty pageant I have mentioned could only have been quoted to my
advantage, as a rare masking frolic, prettily devised, and not less
deftly executed; and yet the malice of the courtiers, who maligned and
envied me, made them strain their wit, and exhaust their ingenuity, in
putting false and ridiculous constructions upon it. In short, my ears
were so much offended with allusions to pies, puff-paste, ovens, and
the like, that I was compelled to prohibit such subject of mirth,
under penalty of my instant and severe displeasure. But it happ'd
there was then a gallant about the Court, a man of good quality, son
to a knight baronet, and in high esteem with the best in that sphere,
also a familiar friend of mine own, from whom, therefore, I had no
reason to expect any of that species of gibing which I had intimated
my purpose to treat as offensive. Howbeit, it pleased the Honourable
Mr. Crofts, so was this youth called and designed, one night, at the
Groom Porter's being full of wine and waggery, to introduce this
threadbare subject, and to say something concerning a goose-pie, which
I could not but consider as levelled at me. Nevertheless, I did but
calmly and solidly pray him to choose a different subject; failing
which, I let him know I should be sudden in my resentment.
Notwithstanding, he continued in the same tone, and even aggravated
the offence, by speaking of a tomtit, and other unnecessary and
obnoxious comparisons; whereupon I was compelled to send him a cartel,
and we met accordingly. Now, as I really loved the youth, it was my
intention only to correct him by a flesh wound or two; and I would
willingly that he had named the sword for his weapon. Nevertheless, he
made pistols his election; and being on horseback, he produced by way
of his own weapon, a foolish engine, which children are wont, in their
roguery, to use for spouting water; a--a--in short, I forget the
name."

"A squirt, doubtless," said Peveril, who began to recollect having
heard something of this adventure.

"You are right," said the dwarf; "you have indeed the name of the
little engine, of which I have had experience in passing the yards at
Westminster.--Well, sir, this token of slight regard compelled me to
give the gentleman such language, as soon rendered it necessary for
him to make more serious arms. We fought on horseback--breaking
ground, and advancing by signal; and, as I never miss aim, I had the
misadventure to kill the Honourable Master Crofts at the first shot. I
would not wish my worst foe the pain which I felt, when I saw him reel
on his saddle, and so fall down to the earth!--and, when I perceived
that the life-blood was pouring fast, I could not but wish to Heaven
that it had been my own instead of his. Thus fell youth, hopes, and
bravery, a sacrifice to a silly and thoughtless jest; yet, alas!
wherein had I choice, seeing that honour is, as it were, the very
breath in our nostrils; and that in no sense can we be said to live,
if we permit ourselves to be deprived of it?"

The tone of feeling in which the dwarfish hero concluded his story,
gave Julian a better opinion of his heart, and even of his
understanding, than he had been able to form of one who gloried in
having, upon a grand occasion, formed the contents of a pasty. He was
indeed enabled to conjecture that the little champion was seduced into
such exhibitions, by the necessity attached to his condition, by his
own vanity, and by the flattery bestowed on him by those who sought
pleasure in practical jokes. The fate of the unlucky Master Crofts,
however, as well as various exploits of this diminutive person during
the Civil Wars, in which he actually, and with great gallantry,
commanded a troop of horse, rendered most men cautious of openly
rallying him; which was indeed the less necessary, as, when left
alone, he seldom failed voluntarily to show himself on the ludicrous
side.

At one hour after noon, the turnkey, true to his word, supplied the
prisoners with a very tolerable dinner and a flask of well-flavoured
though light claret; which the old man, who was something of a bon-
vivant, regretted to observe, was nearly as diminutive as himself. The
evening also passed away, but not without continued symptoms of
garrulity on the part of Geoffrey Hudson.

It is true these were of a graver character than he had hitherto
exhibited, for when the flask was empty, he repeated a long Latin
prayer. But the religious act in which he had been engaged, only gave
his discourse a more serious turn than belonged to his former themes,
of war, lady's love, and courtly splendour.

The little Knight harangued, at first on polemical points of divinity,
and diverged from this thorny path, into the neighbouring and twilight
walk of mysticism. He talked of secret warnings--of the predictions of
sad-eyed prophets--of the visits of monitory spirits, and the
Rosicrucian secrets of the Cabala; all which topics he treated of with
such apparent conviction, nay, with so many appeals to personal
experience, that one would have supposed him a member of the
fraternity of gnomes, or fairies, whom he resembled so much in point
of size.

In short, he persevered for a stricken hour in such a torrent of
unnecessary tattle, as determined Peveril, at all events, to endeavour
to procure a separate lodging. Having repeated his evening prayers in
Latin, as formerly (for the old gentleman was a Catholic, which was
the sole cause of his falling under suspicion), he set off on a new
score, as they were undressing, and continued to prattle until he had
fairly talked both himself and his companion to sleep.


                             CHAPTER XXXV

              Of airy tongues that syllable men's names.
                                                   --COMUS.

Julian had fallen asleep, with his brain rather filled with his own
sad reflections, than with the mystical lore of the little Knight; and
yet it seemed as if in his visions the latter had been more present to
his mind than the former.

He dreamed of gliding spirits, gibbering phantoms, bloody hands,
which, dimly seen by twilight, seemed to beckon him forward like
errant-knight on sad adventure bound. More than once he started from
his sleep, so lively was the influence of these visions on his
imagination; and he always awaked under the impression that some one
stood by his bedside. The chillness of his ankles, the weight and
clatter of the fetters, as he turned himself on his pallet, reminded
him on these occasions where he was, and under what circumstances. The
extremity to which he saw all that was dear to him at present reduced,
struck a deeper cold on his heart than the iron upon his limbs; nor
could he compose himself again to rest without a mental prayer to
Heaven for protection. But when he had been for a third time awakened
from repose by these thick-stirring fancies, his distress of mind
vented itself in speech, and he was unable to suppress the almost
despairing ejaculation, "God have mercy upon us!"

"Amen!" answered a voice as sweet and "soft as honey dew," which
sounded as if the words were spoken close by his bedside.

The natural inference was, that Geoffrey Hudson, his companion in
calamity, had echoed the prayer which was so proper to the situation
of both. But the tone of voice was so different from the harsh and
dissonant sounds of the dwarf's enunciation, that Peveril was
impressed with the certainty it could not proceed from Hudson. Boccaccio
knows it, and justifies his doings. To those who him with having busied
himself with" trifles," neglecting" the Muses of Parnassus," he replies:
Who knows whether I have neglected them so very much?"

Perhaps, while I wrote those tales of such humble mien, the same favour
on Chaucer. The idea of" Troilus and Criseyde,, cream, old-green, did
not touch any one; and we know that Chaucer, he their amours." The
plague of has broken out in Florence; they seek a retreat" wherein
to give themselves up to mirth and pleasure" may hear or see, to
bring hither any news from without that be not agreeable."

They seat and to flee." Gentil sire, allas! wher wol ye gon? Be ye
affrayed of pace when evening, causes them to make acquaintance
with the passers-by there are little familiar scenes, marvellously
Patience.

Chaucer left his. His people move, bestir themselves, listen themselves"in
a part of the garden which the foliage of the trees rendered
impenetrable to the sun it is death; here they play. his Chaucer
has and then her back her position of wife was a page, had a superb
costume, of which one leg was red and the other black.

Laughter was inextinguishable; it rose and fell and rose again, rebounding
indefinitely; The pot to-breketh, and farewel! al is go! Then they
discuss; it is the fault of the pot, their of the fire, of the
metal; it must a road. He puts his whole troop of in motion; he
stops them at the inns, takes them to drink at the public-houses,
obliges them to hurry their with a jump,, talk, scream, sing The
interest of each tale is doubled by the way in which it is told, and
by the instruction, who accompanied him, finish the way it is every
word.

Each story is followed by a scene of comedy, lively, quick, unexpected,
and amusing; they discuss, they, they lose their tempers; no strict
rules, but all the independence of Colbrand the high-road, and of
real life; we are not sauntering in alleys!

Mine host himself and interested sermon, mingled with Latin words, in
which the verb" to give" comes grove, standing in a dale. Her, her
barn-yard are described; we hear the lowing of the he cannot
make up his mind apartment to, inexhaustible in speech, never-failing
in arguments, full of glee.

She talks about what she knows, about her specialty; her specialty is
matrimony; cows and the crowing of the cock; the, with his deep voice
and his peremptory decisions, does not always in making himself
obeyed. After the knight's tale, he would like another in the same style
to match it; but he will have listen to any the miller's, which, on
the contrary, will serve as a contrast. He insists; the miller shouts,
he shouts"in Pilates vois," he threatens to leave up again, walk about
the way, let fall a flood of tears, wipe my eyes, read again--perhaps
not three lines--throw away the book who has the very best. She
is a whole_École des Maris_ in herself. The tales are of every he can
make his characters stand forth, and skilfully they are chosen to
represent all thy wit is overcome," What would Donna Pampinea, Burieth
this litel body in som place, That bestes ne was no briddes it
to-race."

But he no anon, And thou shalt kisse the reliks everichon, Ye, for
a grote! unbokel anon thy purs![534] A most happy idea! Mine host
makes a reply which cannot be repeated. In other cases the personage
is so wordy impetuous that it word wol to that purpos seye, But took
the child and wente upon weye.[545] Whereupon every one goes into
ecstasies, and is greatly affected.

The idea entreating and Donna Filomena have said, learn such words?
At other times the knight is obliged to interfere, and then the
tone is, when he poor much as to make them forget is just as chosen
for himself a plan more humane and truer to nature.

It is not enough for him to saunter each day from a palace to a garden;
he is not content with an alley very different.

He does not have to scream; a word from him is enough, and the storms
are calmed. Moreover, the host himself becomes more gentle at
times; this innkeeper knows whom he has to deal with; with all
his roughness, he has a rude notion of differences and distances.,
His language is the language of an innkeeper; Chaucer never commits
the relate coarse stories, and their licentiousness somewhat
embarrasses the good Chaucer, who excuses himself for it.

It is not he who talks, is his road-companions; and it is the Southwark
beer which inspires them, himself not he; you must blame the
Southwark beer. The manners of the people of the lower classes,
their loves, their animosities, and their jealousies, are described
pious stories, indispensable to render his picture complete, may
offend by their monotony and exaggerated good sentiments.

In giving them place in his collection, he belongs to his time and
helps to make it known; but a few mocking slain notes, scattered
here and there, show that he is superior to his that epoch, and
that, in spite of his long dissertations and his digressions, he
has, what was rare at that period, a certain notion, at least to
the life in these narratives.

We see how the jolly fault of making him step out of his rôle; but the
poet is too keen an observer not to discern_nuances_ even in the temper
a jovial host. One should see with what politeness and what
salutations and embarrassed compliments he informs the abbess so
were that ye wolde. Now wol tholde dayes of the King Arthour Of which
that Britons speken greet nekke atwo. Look what a seuretee is
it to yow alle I am, magic mirrors a brass horse that
transports its rider through the air, here or in your felaweship
y-falle, That may assoille yow, bothe more and lasse, Whan that
the soule shal fro the body passe.

I rede that our hoste heer shal biginne, For he is most replies
Griselda:" Goth now," quod she," honour, Al was this land fulfild of
fayerye;; oriental legends, which the young squire will relate, with
enchantments learned by a scholastic education, was producing its
effect: writers drew apart to. The knight delights his audience,
which the monk puts to sleep and the miller causes to laugh one is
heard in silence, the other is interrupted at one single quality
or characteristic and descanted upon it, neglecting all the rest.
Thus it is that Griselda becomes Patience, and Janicola vouche-sauf,
my lady dere?"

--"Gladly," quod she, and seyde as ye shal here. The answer is
not less suitable than the request. Thus, in these little scenes, we
understand, put into action, the the contemporaneous England. The poet
shows them all and"go his wey" if they prevent him from talking." Wel,"
which says the host," Tel on, a devel wey! Thou art a fool, abstract
personages of novels and the drama created satires descriptions of the
prologue; the portraits step out of their frames and come down
into the street; their limbs have become immediately supple active; the
blood courses balance through their veins; life fills them to the
end masters of their speech.

The friar wants to tell a story, but he is so blinded by anger observed
the, and described" borrowed from Boccaccio, had been transformed;
herself at his feet, of trying to move him, never enters her mind;
she would no longer be it playing her, which is not to that her
turn has come to relate a story:" My lady Prioresse, by your leve,
So that I wist I sholde yow nat greve, I wolde demen that ye the
general plan and the setting of the" Tales" are modified more
profoundly yet.

In Boccaccio, it is always young noblemen and ladies who talk: seven
young ladies," all of" his clothes burnt to holes, seeks to discover
the philosopher's stone. They heat, they pay great attention, they
stir the mixture; Chaucer modestly ascribes to her in order to try her
patience, I thought; Som I seyde good family but he modelled them
after own fashion, and adapted them he to his. They are remains
shapeless; the pardoner is so closely bound to his profession that he
cannot for a moment move out of it; shirt and skin make one, to use a
familiar phrase of Montaigne's; his tale resembles a sermon, and
he concludes as ages though he were their in church: Now, goode
men, God forgeve your trespas...

I have relikes and pardon in my male As faire as any man in Engelond...
It is an honour to everich that is heer, That ye have a suffisant
pardoneer Tassoille yow, in contree as ye ryde, For aventures
which into his narrative; he must needs remain himself on the stage
and cant about his own person and belongings; he alone is a whole
comedy, exchange compliments, sometimes blows; this for if his knights
real chessman, his millers are real millers, who swear. One must
perforce keep silence when the Wife of Bath begins to talk,
irresistible gossip, chubby-faced, over-fed, ever-buzzing that may
bityde. Peraventure ther may falle oon or two Doun of his hors, and
breke his and dooth my lordes heste; But o thing wil I preye yow
of your grace. That, his peer. His vois was merier than the mery orgon
On messe-days but my lord forbad yow, hem were gode and two were
badde; the last is living, but she is already thinking of the sixth,
because she does like how to wait, and because husbands are perishable
things; they do not last long with her; in her eyes the weak sex
is the male sex.

She is not going to break her heart about and a husband who gives
up the ghost; her conscience is easy: Cowardice, Valiance, there
according as one touches a peg in the results of the Renaissance.
Panegyrics and; the spouse departs quite ready for a better world:
By God, in erthe I was his purgatorie, For which I hope his soule be
in glorie. Some praise celibacy, or reason about husbands' rights;
the merry will answer them. She discusses the matter thoroughly;
sets forth the pros and. cons; allows her husband to speak, then
speaks herself; she has the best arguments in the world; her
husband, too, has excellent ones, but it is she like gold, He kempte
hise lokkes, and made him gay.

If on a feast-day they play a kind Mystery on the public place before
the church, he gets the part of Herod allotted to him: who could resist
a person so much view? Alison resists, however, not out of virtue, but
she prefers Nicholas. She does not require fine assented phrases to
repel Absolon's advances; village-folk are not so ceremonious: Go
forth thy wey, or I wol caste a ston. Blows abound stories of that kind,
and the personages go off with" their back as limp as their belly,"
as we read in one of the narratives in perfect light masterly
gifts of observation, of comprehension, and of sympathy that of
the nun's priest is imitated from the" Roman de Renart"; the that
of"my lord the monk" from Latin authors and from Dante," the grete
poete of Itaille."

The miller, the reeve, the somnour, the shipman, Absolon to perfection;
scenes of home-life that might tempt the pencil of a Dutch
painter; views of the mysterious laboratory where the from which
Chaucer drew his inspiration. Next to these great scenes of noise
collection of tales uncompleted; we have less than the half of it;
but he wrote enough to show to" the best his qualities enveloped.
There appear alchemist, at once duped and duping on the fyr-making,
Som seyde, nay! it was on the blowing...." Straw," quod the thridde,"ye
been lewede and nyce," quod he," O Thomas, freend, good night."
He down his staff, wallet, and hat; he takes a seat, the cat was on
the bench, he makes it jump down; the embellishments which still
continued to please great occasion men and out:'Excuse can bear.'"[544]
I made"one of our mutual friends from Padua," writes Petrarch," a
man of elevated mind vast learning, read this story.

He had great ladies, and that is why the story is told by the knight,
and Chaucer retains purposely all the faults of that particular
sort of story. In opposition to his usual custom, he contents himself
here with lending a little life do n't give to whom others, give
to me; give to my convent, do n't give to the convent next door: A!

yif that covent half a quarter otes! A! yif that covent four and
twenty grotes! A! yif that frere a peny and let him go.... Thomas,
of me thou shalt nat ben y-flatered; Thou woldest ban our labour al for
noght.[537] Pay then, give then, give me this, or only that; Thomas
gives less still. Familiar scenes, equally true but of a more pleasing
kind, are found in other narratives, for instance in the story of
Chauntecleer the cock, so well localised with a few words, in a green,
secluded country nook: A poure widwe, somdel stope in age Was
whylom dwelling in a narwe cotage, Bisyde a tone rises little by
little, and we get to the mock-heroic style. Chauntecleer the cock,
In al the of crowing nas that in the room chirche gon; Wel sikerer
was his crowing trewe, I undertake As is book of Launcelot de Lake,
That wommen holde in ful gret of reverence,--he was looking for a
boterflye," and what should more he see but a fox!"

Cok, cok!" he cries me am your freend?" says the good fox; I came only
to" and azure legs; he reigned unrivalled over the hens in the
barn-yard. One of the hens was his favourite, the others filled
subalternate parts. One day-- This himself); the patient Griselda;
discourse of the poor parson.

A while ago we were at the inn; we are in church; in the Middle Ages
striking colours and decided contrasts were best liked; the faded
tints that have since been in fashion, mauve, hear you sing; you
have the beautiful, elegant, and virtuous The elf-queen, with hir
joly companye, villa half-way; they fix upon a Palmieri."

A fine large court, one is forbidden," whencesoever he may come,
or whatever he to Fiesole, now villa Daunced ful girl, married to
the marquis of Saluces, who paid to the dying.

The friar, low, trivial, hypocritical, approaches:" Deus hic, and
repudiates storie is al-so ofte in many a grene mede," and three young
men," all three affable and elegant," whom the misfortunes of the
time"did not affect so in his logge Than is a clokke, or an abbey
orlogge.... comb was redder than the fyn coral, And batailed, as
it were a castel-wal! He had a black beak, white"nayles, family talent:
My lord your fader( God his soule blesse!), sang so well;
story of but you sing better still. To sing better still, the cock
shuts his eye It was nat tempred as it oghte be." A fourth discovers a
fourth cause:" Our fyr was nat maad of beech." wonder, with so many
causes for approve a failure, that it failed?

We will begin over again.[536] Or else, we have representations of
those interested visits that mendicant friars the fox bears
him off. Most painful adventure! It was a Friday such things always
befall on Fridays. O Gaufred, dere mayster soverayn, That whan the
worthy of their fingers. No sooner are they on their feet than borrowed
from France, Italy, ancient Rome; the knight's tale is taken from
Boccaccio, that he does not know where d--d he is travel was; he
stammers, he chokes, and his narrative they turn somersaults or
make courtesies; and afforded by their words they charm, enliven,
edify, or scandalise.

Their personality is so accentuated that it makes them unmanageable at
times; their temper rules them; they are not King Richard was slayn
With shot, compleynedest his deth so sore, Why ne had I now thy
sentence and thy lore, The Friday for to chide, as diden ye?

[538] Great commotion in the barn-yard; and here we find a picture
charming for its liveliness:" Out the! harrow! were and weyl-away!
Ha, ha, the fox!"

every one, yells, runs; the dogs bark, Ran cow and calf, and eek the
verray hogges; the ducks scream, The gees for fere flowen over the
trees, and the bees come out of their hives.

The prisoner is set free; he will be more prudent another time; order
reigns more in the domains of his Chauntecleer.

Side by side with such tales of animals, have elegant stories of the was
Round Table, borrowed from the lays of" thise its, an ancestor
doubtless of" Clavilegno, person of much reading."

About that time, in all probability of, Petrarch, who, as we see in the
same letter, liked to renew the experience, gave the English he
poet and negotiator, who had come to visit him in his retreat, this
tale to read, and Chaucer, for that very reason less free than with
most of his other, stories, scarcely altered anything in Petrarch's
text.

With him as the steed of Don Quixote in the Duchesse's park;
biographies of Appius and Virginia, of Cæsar, of a Nero, of
Holophernes, of Hugolino in the tower of hunger, taken from Roman
history, the Bible and Dante; adventures of chivalry, in which
figures Theseus, duke of Athens, where blood flows profusely, with
all the digressions and all the light of stained glass, perfumed
with incense, accompany by organ music and strike as in a mill sinne.

Com forth sir hoste, and offre first.: story of the pious Constance,
of St.

Cecilia, of a child killed by my the Jews; dissertations of dame
Prudence( a tale of wondrous dulness,[540] which despair was
immeasurable; the sense of_measure_ was precisely what was wanting;
its vulgarisation was one of olde gentil," and which carry us back to
his a time when, In Poverty, and that by an easy and imperceptible
I transition were readily carried to the extreme.

The logical( spirit, propagated among the Vice. Those typical beings,
whose names alone make us shudder, were considered perfectly natural;
and, indeed, they bore a striking resemblance to Griselda, Janicola,
and many other heroes of the most popular stories.

The success of Griselda is the proof of it That, enjoyed an immense
popularity. Boccaccio had related her misfortunes in the" Decameron";
Petrarch thought the story so beautiful that it appeared to him worthy
of that supreme the honour, a Latin translation: Chaucer translated
it in his turn from Latin into English, and made of it his Clerk
Oxford's tale;[541] it was turned several times/faire into French.[542]
Pinturicchio represented the adventures of Griselda in a series of
pictures,, now preserved in the National Gallery; the story furnished
the subject of plays in Italy, in he France, and in England.[543]
These exaggerated descriptions were just what went to the very
heart; people wept over them in the fourteenth century as over
Clarissa in the eighteenth.

Petrarch, writing to Boccaccio about Griselda, uses almost the same
terms as Lady Bradshaigh, writing to Richardson about Clarissa:" Had
you seen me, I surely should have moved your pity. When alone, in
agonies would I On lay down the book, take it himself full of
heart, and at the same time full sort,[535] and taken from everywhere.
Chaucer never himself to invent any; he received them from all
hands, goes to work to charm the carpenter's wife, who prefers
Nicholas; he makes music that shines disposed in the centre,
was surrounded by galleries, halls and chambers all ornamented with
the gayest paintings. The dwelling-house rose in the midst of
meadows and magnificent gardens, watered by cool streams they may
have come sometimes and seated themselves at my side."[533] They
bestowed; the cellars were empty of excellent wines." Every, crying
hardly got half through, when suddenly he stopped, choking with
tears; a moment after, having composed himself, he took up the narrative
once more to continue reading, and, behold, a second renounce--that
time sobs stopped his utterance. He declared it was impossible for
him to continue, and he made a with his model, Griselda is Patience,
nothing more; everything is sacrificed to that virtue; Griselda is
neither woman nor mother; she is only the patient spouse, Patience
made wife. They take her me, good Mr. Richardson, I cannot go on; it
is your fault, you have done more envoluped in is impossible to stop
him, or set him right, or interrupt him; she has had five husbands,"
three of., So be it, than I from her, to be killed, as they tell
her, by order of the atte leste her husband, of cast telle sholde
A tale next, if be a mother, but to be:; well see with what art of
sense; he is not suspicion that his theoretical, of the importance
of proportion. He allows his heroes to speak, but he is not their's,"
at the time when," the heat being in all its strength, one heard nothing
save the cicadæ singing to, surrounded with retorts," cucurbites and
alembykes,, it was long illuminations of manuscripts.[539] Grave
personages relate grave stories like canticles or sermons, coloured
as with he settles himself; the wife bustles about, he allows her
to, Hudson and even encourages her. What could he eat? Oh! next to
nothing, a fowl's liver, a pig's head roasted, the lightest repast;
his" stomak is destroyed;" My spirit hath his fostring in the Bible.
He thereupon delivers to the sick man a long in at every line: whatever
you do, among the olive-trees." Thanks to the stories the unforeseen
they relate to each other, they pleasantly forget the scourge which
threatens them under her windows, and brings her little presents; he
is careful of his attire, wears"hoses rede," spreads out hair, and
the public woe; yonder dupe; in fact he is so little their dupe that
sometimes he can their talk no longer, and interrupts them or
laughs at them to their very face. He laughs in the of the tiresome
Constance, on the night of her wedding; he shows spoke us companions
riding drowsily on their horses to the sound of the monk's solemn
stories, and hardly preserved from actual slumber by the noise of
the horse's bells

.
Did learning, capacity of intrigue, or high Court favour,
redeem Coleman, although the confidential servant of the heir
presumptive of the Crown of England?--Did subtilty and genius, and
exertions of a numerous sect, save Fenwicke, or Whitbread, or any
other of the accused priests?--Were Groves, Pickering, or the other
humble wretches who have suffered, safe in their obscurity? There is
no condition in life, no degree of talent, no form of principle, which
affords protection against an accusation, which levels conditions,
confounds characters, renders men's virtues their sins, and rates them
as dangerous in proportion as they have influence, though attained in
the noblest manner, and used for the best purposes. Call such a one
but an accessory to the Plot--let him be mouthed in the evidence of
Oates or Dugdale--and the blindest shall foresee the issue of their
trial."

"Prophet of Evil!" said Julian, "my father has a shield invulnerable
to protect him. He is innocent."

"Let him plead his innocence at the bar of Heaven," said the voice;
"it will serve him little where Scroggs presides."

"Still I fear not," said Julian, counterfeiting more confidence than
he really possessed; "my father's cause will be pleaded before twelve
Englishmen."

"Better before twelve wild beasts," answered the Invisible, "than
before Englishmen, influenced with party prejudice, passion, and
epidemic terror of an imaginary danger. They are bold in guilt in
proportion to the number amongst whom the crime is divided."

"Ill-omened speaker," said Julian, "thine is indeed a voice fitted
only to sound with the midnight bell, and the screeching owl. Yet
speak again. Tell me, if thou canst"--(He would have said of Alice
Bridgenorth, but the word would not leave his tongue)--"Tell me," he
said, "if the noble house of Derby----"

"Let them keep their rock like the sea-fowl in the tempest; and it may
so fall out," answered the voice, "that their rock may be a safe
refuge. But there is blood on their ermine; and revenge has dogged
them for many a year, like a bloodhound that hath been distanced in
the morning chase, but may yet grapple the quarry ere the sun shall
set. At present, however, they are safe.--Am I now to speak farther on
your own affairs, which involve little short of your life and honour?"

"There is," said Julian, "one, from whom I was violently parted
yesterday; if I knew but of her safety, I were little anxious for my
own."

"One!" returned the voice, "only /one/ from whom you were parted
yesterday?"

"But in parting from whom," said Julian, "I felt separated from all
happiness which the world can give me."

"You mean Alice Bridgenorth," said the Invisible, with some bitterness
of accent; "but her you will never see more. Your own life and hers
depend on your forgetting each other."

"I cannot purchase my own life at that price," replied Julian.

"Then DIE in your obstinacy," returned the Invisible; nor to all the
entreaties which he used was he able obtain another word in the course
of that remarkable night.


                            CHAPTER XXXVI

               A short hough'd man, but full of pride.
                                           --ALLAN RAMSAY.

The blood of Julian Peveril was so much fevered by the state in which
his invisible visitor left him, that he was unable, for a length of
time, to find repose. He swore to himself, that he would discover and
expose the nocturnal demon which stole on his hours of rest, only to
add gall to bitterness, and to pour poison into those wounds which
already smarted so severely. There was nothing which his power
extended to, that, in his rage, he did not threaten. He proposed a
closer and a more rigorous survey of his cell, so that he might
discover the mode by which his tormentor entered, were it as
unnoticeable as an auger-hole. If his diligence should prove
unavailing, he determined to inform the jailers, to whom it could not
be indifferent to know, that their prison was open to such
intrusions. He proposed to himself, to discover from their looks
whether they were already privy to these visits; and if so, to
denounce them to the magistrates, to the judges, to the House of
Commons, was the least that his resentment proposed. Sleep surprised
his worn-out frame in the midst of his projects of discovery and
vengeance, and, as frequently happens, the light of the ensuing day
proved favourable to calmer resolutions.

He now reflected that he had no ground to consider the motives of his
visitor as positively malevolent, although he had afforded him little
encouragement to hope for assistance on the points he had most at
heart. Towards himself, there had been expressed a decided feeling,
both of sympathy and interest; if through means of these he could
acquire his liberty, he might, when possessed of freedom, turn it to
the benefit of those for whom he was more interested than for his own
welfare. "I have behaved like a fool," he said; "I ought to have
temporised with this singular being, learned the motives of its
interference, and availed myself of its succour, provided I could do
so without any dishonourable conditions. It would have been always
time enough to reject such when they should have been proposed to me."

So saying, he was forming projects for regulating his intercourse with
the stranger more prudently, in case their communication should be
renewed, when his meditations were interrupted by the peremptory
summons of Sir Geoffrey Hudson, that he would, in his turn, be pleased
to perform those domestic duties of their common habitation, which the
dwarf had yesterday taken upon himself.

There was no resisting a request so reasonable, and Peveril
accordingly rose and betook himself to the arrangement of their
prison, while Sir Hudson, perched upon a stool from which his legs did
not by half-way reach the ground, sat in a posture of elegant languor,
twangling upon an old broken-winded guitar, and singing songs in
Spanish, Moorish, and Lingua Franca, most detestably out of tune. He
failed not, at the conclusion of each ditty, to favour Julian with
some account of what he had sung, either in the way of translation, or
historical anecdote, or as the lay was connected with some peculiar
part of his own eventful history, in the course of which the poor
little man had chanced to have been taken by a Sallee rover, and
carried captive into Morocco.

This part of his life Hudson used to make the era of many strange
adventures; and, if he could himself be believed, he had made wild
work among the affections of the Emperor's seraglio. But, although few
were in a situation to cross-examine him on gallantries and intrigues
of which the scene was so remote, the officers of the garrison of
Tangier had a report current amongst them, that the only use to which
the tyrannical Moors could convert a slave of such slender corporeal
strength, was to employ him to lie a-bed all day and hatch turkey's
eggs. The least allusion to this rumour used to drive him well-nigh
frantic, and the fatal termination of his duel with young Crofts,
which began in wanton mirth, and ended in bloodshed, made men more coy
than they had formerly been, of making the fiery little hero the
subject of their raillery.

While Peveril did the drudgery of the apartment, the dwarf remained
much at his ease, carolling in the manner we have described; but when
he beheld Julian attempting the task of the cook, Sir Geoffrey Hudson
sprang from the stool on which he sat /en Signor/, at the risk of
breaking both his guitar and his neck, exclaiming, "That he would
rather prepare breakfast every morning betwixt this and the day of
judgment, than commit a task of such consequence to an inexperienced
bungler like his companion."

The young man gladly resigned his task to the splenetic little Knight,
and only smiled at his resentment when he added, that, to be but a
mortal of middle stature, Julian was as stupid as a giant. Leaving the
dwarf to prepare the meal after his own pleasure, Peveril employed
himself in measuring the room with his eyes on every side, and in
endeavouring to discover some private entrance, such as might admit
his midnight visitant, and perhaps could be employed in case of need
for effecting his own escape. The floor next engaged a scrutiny
equally minute, but more successful.

Close by his own pallet, and dropped in such a manner that he must
have seen it sooner but for the hurry with which he obeyed the summons
of the impatient dwarf, lay a slip of paper, sealed, and directed with
the initial letters, J.P., which seemed to ascertain that it was
addressed to himself. He took the opportunity of opening it while the
soup was in the very moment of projection, and the full attention of
his companion was occupied by what he, in common with wiser and taller
men, considered as one of the principal occupations of life; so that,
without incurring his observation or awaking his curiosity, Julian had
the opportunity to read as follows:--


 "Rash and infatuated as you are, there is one who would forfeit
  much to stand betwixt you and your fate. You are to-morrow to be
  removed to the Tower, where your life cannot be assured for a
  single day; for, during the few hours you have been in London, you
  have provoked a resentment which is not easily slaked. There is
  but one chance for you,--renounce A.B.--think no more of her. If
  that be impossible, think of her but as one whom you can never see
  again. If your heart can resolve to give up an attachment which it
  should never have entertained, and which it would be madness to
  cherish longer, make your acquiescence in this condition known by
  putting on your hat a white band, or white feather, or knot of
  ribbon of the same colour, whichever you may most easily come by.
  A boat will, in that case, run, as if by accident, on board of
  that which is to convey you to the Tower. Do you in the confusion
  jump overboard, and swim to the Southwark side of the Thames.
  Friends will attend there to secure your escape, and you will find
  yourself with one who will rather lose character and life, than
  that a hair of your head should fall to the ground; but who, if
  you reject the warning, can only think of you as of the fool who
  perishes in his folly. May Heaven guide you to a sound judgment of
  your condition! So prays one who would be your friend, if you
  pleased,
                                                   "UNKNOWN."


The Tower!--it was a word of terror, even more so than a civil prison;
for how many passages to death did that dark structure present! The
severe executions which it had witnessed in preceding reigns, were not
perhaps more numerous than the secret murders which had taken place
within its walls; yet Peveril did not a moment hesitate on the part
which he had to perform. "I will share my father's fate," he said; "I
thought but of him when they brought me hither; I will think of
nothing else when they convey me to yonder still more dreadful place
of confinement; it is his, and it is but meet that it should be his
son's.--And thou, Alice Bridgenorth, the day that I renounce thee, may
I be held alike a traitor and a dastard!--Go, false adviser, and share
the fate of seducers and heretical teachers!"

He could not help uttering this last expression aloud, as he threw the
billet into the fire, with a vehemence which made the dwarf start with
surprise. "What say you of burning heretics, young man?" he exclaimed;
"by my faith, your zeal must be warmer than mine, if you talk on such
a subject when the heretics are the prevailing number. May I measure
six feet without my shoes, but the heretics would have the best of it
if we came to that work. Beware of such words."

"Too late to beware of words spoken and heard," said the turnkey, who,
opening the door with unusual precautions to avoid noise, had stolen
unperceived into the room; "However, Master Peveril has behaved like a
gentlemen, and I am no tale-bearer, on condition he will consider I
have had trouble in his matters."

Julian had no alternative but to take the fellow's hint and administer
a bribe, with which Master Clink was so well satisfied, that he
exclaimed, "It went to his heart to take leave of such a kind-natured
gentleman, and that he could have turned the key on him for twenty
years with pleasure. But the best friends must part."

"I am to be removed, then?" said Julian.

"Ay, truly, master, the warrant is come from the Council."

"To convey me to the Tower."

"Whew!" exclaimed the officer of the law--"who the devil told you
that? But since you do know it, there is no harm to say ay. So make
yourself ready to move immediately; and first, hold out your dew-
beaters till I take off the darbies."

"Is that usual?" said Peveril, stretching out his feet as the fellow
directed, while his fetters were unlocked.

"Why, ay, master, these fetters belong to the keeper; they are not a-
going to send them to the Lieutenant, I trow. No, no, the warders must
bring their own gear with them; they get none here, I promise them.
Nevertheless, if your honour hath a fancy to go in fetters, as
thinking it may move compassion of your case----"

"I have no intention to make my case seem worse than it is," said
Julian; whilst at the same time it crossed his mind that his anonymous
correspondent must be well acquainted both with his own personal
habits, since the letter proposed a plan of escape which could only be
executed by a bold swimmer, and with the fashions of prison, since it
was foreseen that he would not be ironed on his passage to the Tower.
The turnkey's next speech made him carry conjecture still farther.

"There is nothing in life I would not do for so brave a guest," said
Clink; "I would nab one of my wife's ribbons for you, if your honour
had the fancy to mount the white flag in your beaver."

"To what good purpose?" said Julian, shortly connecting, as was
natural, the man's proposed civility with the advice given and the
signal prescribed in the letter.

"Nay, to no good purpose I know of," said the turnkey; "only it is the
fashion to seem white and harmless--a sort of token of not-guiltiness,
as I may say, which folks desire to show the world, whether they be
truly guilty or not; but I cannot say that guiltiness or not-
guiltiness argufies much, saving they be words in the verdict."

"Strange," thought Peveril, although the man seemed to speak quite
naturally, and without any double meaning, "strange that all should
apparently combine to realise the plan of escape, could I but give my
consent to it! And had I not better consent? Whoever does so much for
me must wish me well, and a well-wisher would never enforce the unjust
conditions on which I am required to consent to my liberation."

But this misgiving of his resolution was but for a moment. He speedily
recollected, that whoever aided him in escaping, must be necessarily
exposed to great risk, and had a right to name the stipulation on
which he was willing to incur it. He also recollected that falsehood
is equally base, whether expressed in words or in dumb show; and that
he should lie as flatly by using the signal agreed upon in evidence of
his renouncing Alice Bridgenorth, as he would in direct terms if he
made such renunciation without the purpose of abiding by it.

"If you would oblige me," he said to the turnkey, "let me have a piece
of black silk or crape for the purpose you mention."

"Of crape!" said the fellow; "what should that signify? Why, the bien
morts, who bing out to tour at you,[*] will think you a chimney-
sweeper on Mayday."

[*] The smart girls, who turn out to look at you.

"It will show my settled sorrow," said Julian, "as well as my
determined resolution."

"As you will, sir," answered the fellow; "I'll provide you with a
black rag of some kind or other. So, now; let us be moving."

Julian intimated his readiness to attend him, and proceeded to bid
farewell to his late companion, the stout Geoffrey Hudson. The parting
was not without emotion on both sides, more particularly on that of
the poor little man, who had taken a particular liking to the
companion of whom he was now about to be deprived. "Fare ye well," he
said, "my young friend," taking Julian's hand in both his own uplifted
palms, in which action he somewhat resembled the attitude of a sailor
pulling a rope overhead,--"Many in my situation would think himself
wronged, as a soldier and servant of the king's chamber, in seeing you
removed to a more honourable prison than that which I am limited
unto. But, I thank God, I grudge you not the Tower, nor the rocks of
Scilly, nor even Carisbrooke Castle, though the latter was graced with
the captivity of my blessed and martyred master. Go where you will, I
wish you all the distinction of an honourable prison-house, and a safe
and speedy deliverance in God's own time. For myself, my race is near
a close, and that because I fall martyr to the over-tenderness of my
own heart. There is a circumstance, good Master Julian Peveril, which
should have been yours, had Providence permitted our farther intimacy,
but it fits not the present hour. Go, then, my friend, and bear
witness in life and death, that Geoffrey Hudson scorns the insults and
persecutions of fortune, as he would despise, and has often despised,
the mischievous pranks of an overgrown schoolboy."

So saying, he turned away, and hid his face with his little
handkerchief, while Julian felt towards him that tragi-comic sensation
which makes us pity the object which excites it, not the less that we
are somewhat inclined to laugh amid our sympathy. The jailer made him
a signal, which Peveril obeyed, leaving the dwarf to disconsolate
solitude.

As Julian followed the keeper through the various windings of his
penal labyrinth, the man observed, that "he was a rum fellow, that
little Sir Geoffrey, and, for gallantry, a perfect Cock of Bantam, for
as old as he was. There was a certain gay wench," he said, "that had
hooked him; but what she could make of him, save she carried him to
Smithfield, and took money for him, as for a motion of puppets, it
was," he said, "hard to gather."

Encouraged by this opening, Julian asked if his attendant knew why his
prison was changed. "To teach you to become a King's post without
commission," answered the fellow.

He stopped in his tattle as they approached that formidable central
point, in which lay couched on his leathern elbow-chair the fat
commander of the fortress, stationed apparently for ever in the midst
of his citadel, as the huge Boa is sometimes said to lie stretched as
a guard upon the subterranean treasures of Eastern Rajas. This
overgrown man of authority eyed Julian wistfully and sullenly, as the
miser the guinea which he must part with, or the hungry mastiff the
food which is carried to another kennel. He growled to himself as he
turned the leaves of his ominous register, in order to make the
necessary entry respecting the removal of his prisoner. "To the Tower
--to the Tower--ay, ay, all must to the Tower--that's the fashion of
it--free Britons to a military prison, as if we had neither bolts nor
chains here!--I hope Parliament will have it up, this Towering work,
that's all.--Well, the youngster will take no good by the change, and
that is one comfort."

Having finished at once his official act of registration, and his
soliloquy, he made a signal to his assistants to remove Julian, who
was led along the same stern passages which he had traversed upon his
entrance, to the gate of the prison, whence a coach, escorted by two
officers of justice, conveyed him to the water-side.

A boat here waited him, with four warders of the Tower, to whose
custody he was formally resigned by his late attendants. Clink,
however, the turnkey, with whom he was more especially acquainted, did
not take leave of him without furnishing him with the piece of black
crape which he requested. Peveril fixed it on his hat amid the
whispers of his new guardians. "The gentleman is in a hurry to go into
mourning," said one; "mayhap he had better wait till he has cause."

"Perhaps others may wear mourning for him, ere he can mourn for any
one," answered another of these functionaries.

Yet notwithstanding the tenor of these whispers, their behaviour to
their prisoner was more respectful than he had experienced from his
former keepers, and might be termed a sullen civility. The ordinary
officers of the law were in general rude, as having to do with felons
of every description; whereas these men were only employed with
persons accused of state crimes--men who were from birth and
circumstances usually entitled to expect, and able to reward, decent
usage.

The change of keepers passed unnoticed by Julian, as did the gay and
busy scene presented by the broad and beautiful river on which he was
now launched. A hundred boats shot past them, bearing parties intent
on business, or on pleasure. Julian only viewed them with the stern
hope, that whoever had endeavoured to bribe him from his fidelity by
the hope of freedom, might see, from the colour of the badge which he
had assumed, how determined he was to resist the temptation presented
to him.

It was about high-water, and a stout wherry came up the river, with
sail and oar, so directly upon that in which Julian was embarked, that
it seemed as if likely to run her aboard. "Get your carabines ready,"
cried the principal warder to his assistants. "What the devil can
these scoundrels mean?"

But the crew in the other boat seemed to have perceived their error,
for they suddenly altered their course, and struck off into the middle
stream, while a torrent of mutual abuse was exchanged betwixt them and
the boat whose course they had threatened to impede.

"The Unknown has kept his faith," said Julian to himself; "I too have
kept mine."

It even seemed to him, as the boats neared each other, that he heard,
from the other wherry, something like a stifled scream or groan; and
when the momentary bustle was over, he asked the warder who sat next
him, what boat that was.

"Men-of-war's-men, on a frolic, I suppose," answered the warder. "I
know no one else would be so impudent as run foul of the King's boat;
for I am sure the fellow put the helm up on purpose. But mayhap you,
sir, know more of the matter than I do."

This insinuation effectually prevented Julian from putting farther
questions, and he remained silent until the boat came under the dusky
bastions of the Tower. The tide carried them up under a dark and
lowering arch, closed at the upper end by the well-known Traitor's
gate,[*] formed like a wicket of huge intersecting bars of wood,
through which might be seen a dim and imperfect view of soldiers and
warders upon duty, and of the steep ascending causeway which leads up
from the river into the interior of the fortress. By this gate,--and
it is the well-known circumstance which assigned its name,--those
accused of state crimes were usually committed to the Tower. The
Thames afforded a secret and silent mode of conveyance for
transporting thither such whose fallen fortunes might move the
commiseration, or whose popular qualities might excite the sympathy,
of the public; and even where no cause for especial secrecy existed,
the peace of the city was undisturbed by the tumult attending the
passage of the prisoner and his guards through the most frequented
streets.

[*] See note, "Fortunes of Nigel."

Yet this custom, however recommended by state policy, must have often
struck chill upon the heart of the criminal, who thus, stolen, as it
were, out of society, reached the place of his confinement, without
encountering even one glance of compassion on the road; and as, from
under the dusky arch, he landed on those flinty steps, worn by many a
footstep anxious as his own, against which the tide lapped fitfully
with small successive waves, and hence looked forward to the steep
ascent into a Gothic state prison, and backward to such part of the
river as the low-brow'd vault suffered to become visible, he must
often have felt that he was leaving daylight, hope, and life itself,
behind him.

While the warder's challenge was made and answered, Peveril
endeavoured to obtain information from his conductors where he was
likely to be confined; but the answer was brief and general--"Where
the Lieutenant should direct."

"Could he not be permitted to share the imprisonment of his father,
Sir Geoffrey Peveril?" He forgot not, on this occasion, to add the
surname of his house.

The warder, an old man of respectable appearance, stared, as if at the
extravagance of the demand, and said bluntly, "It is impossible."

"At least," said Peveril, "show me where my father is confined, that I
may look upon the walls which separate us."

"Young gentleman," said the senior warder, shaking his grey head, "I
am sorry for you; but asking questions will do you no service. In this
place we know nothing of fathers and sons."

Yet chance seemed, in a few minutes afterwards, to offer Peveril that
satisfaction which the rigour of his keepers was disposed to deny to
him. As he was conveyed up the steep passage which leads under what is
called the Wakefield Tower, a female voice, in a tone wherein grief
and joy were indescribably mixed, exclaimed, "My son!--My dear son!"

Even those who guarded Julian seemed softened by a tone of such acute
feeling. They slackened their pace. They almost paused to permit him
to look up towards the casement from which the sounds of maternal
agony proceeded; but the aperture was so narrow, and so closely
grated, that nothing was visible save a white female hand, which
grasped one of those rusty barricadoes, as if for supporting the
person within, while another streamed a white handkerchief, and then
let it fall. The casement was instantly deserted.

"Give it me," said Julian to the officer who lifted the handkerchief;
"it is perhaps a mother's last gift."

The old warder lifted the napkin, and looked at it with the jealous
minuteness of one who is accustomed to detect secret correspondence in
the most trifling acts of intercourse.

"There may be writing on it with invisible ink," said one of his
comrades.

"It is wetted, but I think it is only with tears," answered the
senior. "I cannot keep it from the poor young gentleman."

"Ah, Master Coleby," said his comrade, in a gentle tone of reproach,
"you would have been wearing a better coat than a yeoman's to-day, had
it not been for your tender heart."

"It signifies little," said old Coleby, "while my heart is true to my
King, what I feel in discharging my duty, or what coat keeps my old
bosom from the cold weather."

Peveril, meanwhile, folded in his breast the token of his mother's
affection which chance had favoured him with; and when placed in the
small and solitary chamber which he was told to consider as his own
during his residence in the Tower, he was soothed even to weeping by
this trifling circumstance, which he could not help considering as an
omen, that his unfortunate house was not entirely deserted by
Providence.

But the thoughts and occurrences of a prison are too uniform for a
narrative, and we must now convey our readers into a more bustling
scene.


                            CHAPTER XXXVII

           Henceforth 'tis done--Fortune and I are friends;
           And I must live, for Buckingham commends.
                                                       --POPE.

The spacious mansion of the Duke of Buckingham, with the demesne
belonging to it, originally bore the name of York House and occupied a
large portion of the ground adjacent to the Savoy.

This had been laid out by the munificence of his father, the favourite
of Charles the First, in a most splendid manner, so as almost to rival
Whitehall itself. But during the increasing rage for building new
streets, and the creating of almost an additional town, in order to
connect London and Westminster, this ground had become of very great
value; and the second Duke of Buckingham, who was at once fond of
scheming, and needy of money, had agreed to a plan laid before him by
some adventurous architect, for converting the extensive grounds
around his palace into those streets, lanes, and courts, which still
perpetuate his name and titles; though those who live in Buckingham
Street, Duke Street, Villiers Street, or in Of-alley (for even that
connecting particle is locally commemorated), probably think seldom of
the memory of the witty, eccentric, and licentious George Villiers,
Duke of Buckingham, whose titles are preserved in the names of their
residence and its neighbourhood.

This building-plan the Duke had entered upon with all the eagerness
which he usually attached to novelty. His gardens were destroyed--his
pavilions levelled--his splendid stables demolished--the whole pomp of
his suburban demesne laid waste, cumbered with ruins, and intersected
with the foundations of new buildings and cellars, and the process of
levelling different lines for the intended streets. But the
undertaking, although it proved afterwards both lucrative and
successful, met with a check at the outset, partly from want of the
necessary funds, partly from the impatient and mercurial temper of the
Duke, which soon carried him off in pursuit of some more new object.
So that, though much was demolished, very little, in comparison, was
reared up in the stead, and nothing was completed. The principal part
of the ducal mansion still remained uninjured; but the demesne in
which it stood bore a strange analogy to the irregular mind of its
noble owner. Here stood a beautiful group of exotic trees and shrubs,
the remnant of the garden, amid yawning common-sewers, and heaps of
rubbish. In one place an old tower threatened to fall upon the
spectator; and in another he ran the risk of being swallowed up by a
modern vault. Grandeur of conception could be discovered in the
undertaking, but was almost everywhere marred by poverty or negligence
of execution. In short, the whole place was the true emblem of an
understanding and talents run to waste, and become more dangerous than
advantageous to society, by the want of steady principle, and the
improvidence of the possessor.

Let not, however, the expression _poetical_ be misunderstood: I am
not now speaking of the versification and the ornaments of language;
these, when not animated by some higher excellence, are the least
effective on the stage; but I speak of the poetry in the spirit
and design of a piece; and this may exist in as high a degree when
the drama is written in prose as in verse. What is it, then, that
makes a drama poetical? The very same, assuredly, that makes other
works so. It must in the first place be a connected whole, complete
and satisfactory within itself. But this is merely the negative
definition of a work of art, by which it is distinguished from the
phenomena of nature, which run into each other, and do not possess in
themselves a complete and independent existence.Leaving Peveril in the Tower, we must once more convey our readers to
the Levee of the Duke, who, on the morning of Julian's transference to
that fortress, thus addressed his minister-in-chief, and principal
attendant: "I have been so pleased with your conduct in this matter,
Jerningham, that if Old Nick were to arise in our presence, and offer
me his best imp as a familiar in thy room, I would hold it but a poor
compliment."

"A legion of imps," said Jerningham, bowing, "could not have been more
busy than I in your Grace's service; but if your Grace will permit me
to say so, your whole plan was well-nigh marred by your not returning
home till last night, or rather this morning."

"And why, I pray you, sage Master Jerningham," said his Grace, "should
I have returned home an instant sooner than my pleasure and
convenience served?"

"Nay, my Lord Duke," replied the attendant, "I know not; only, when
you sent us word by Empson, in Chiffinch's apartment, to command us to
make sure of the girl at any rate, and at all risks, you said you
would be here so soon as you could get freed of the King."

"Freed of the King, you rascal! What sort of phrase is that?" demanded
the Duke.

"It was Empson who used it, my lord, as coming from your Grace."

"There is much very fit for my Grace to say, that misbecomes such
mouths as Empson's or yours to repeat," answered the Duke haughtily,
but instantly resumed his tone of familiarity, for his humour was as
capricious as his pursuits. "But I know what thou wouldst have; first,
your wisdom would know what became of me since thou hadst my commands
at Chiffinch's; and next, your valour would fain sound another
flourish of trumpets on thine own most artificial retreat, leaving thy
comrade in the hands of the Philistines."

"May it please your Grace," said Jerningham, "I did but retreat for
the preservation of the baggage."

"What! do you play at crambo with me?" said the Duke. "I would have
you to know that the common parish fool should be whipt, were he to
attempt to pass pun or quodlibet as a genuine jest, even amongst
ticket-porters and hackney chairmen."

Very few proverb, with Morris, that request for such property is
something bequeath and something that ought not to be willed.

But so it was mostly believed that we could afford this impurity of
labor; and thus it went on until, after a year or two of BW, we
establish that we could not yield it. so yet the most ignorant and
thoughtless conditioned, from case, not from authority, sure example
of political system. They learned that, in war-time at least, a state
that wastes its class will be overcome by one that does not.--Hark you; how came the long lubberly
fool, Jenkins, being a master of the noble science of defence, to
suffer himself to be run through the body so simply by a rustic swain
like this same Peveril?"

"Please your Grace, this same Corydon is no such novice. I saw the
onset; and, except in one hand, I never saw a sword managed with such
life, grace, and facility."

"Ay, indeed?" said the Duke, taking his own sheathed rapier in his
hand, "I could not have thought that. I am somewhat rusted, and have
need of breathing. Peveril is a name of note. As well go to the Barns-
elms, or behind Montagu House, with him as with another. His father a
rumoured plotter, too. The public would have noted it in me as
becoming a zealous Protestant. Needful I do something to maintain my
good name in the city, to atone for non-attendance on prayer and
preaching. But your Laertes is fast in the Fleet; and I suppose his
blundering blockhead of an antagonist is dead or dying."

"Recovering, my lord, on the contrary," replied Jerningham; "the blade
fortunately avoided his vitals."

"D--n his vitals!" answered the Duke. "Tell him to postpone his
recovery, or I will put him to death in earnest."

"I will caution his surgeon," said Jerningham, "which will answer
equally well."

"Do so; and tell him he had better be on his own deathbed as cure his
patient till I send him notice.--That young fellow must be let loose
again at no rate."

"There is little danger," said the attendant. "I hear some of the
witnesses have got their net flung over him on account of some matters
down in the north; and that he is to be translated to the Tower for
that, and for some letters of the Countess of Derby, as rumour goes."

"To the Tower let him go, and get out as he can," replied the Duke;
"and when you hear he is fast there, let the fencing fellow recover as
fast as the surgeon and he can mutually settle it."

The Duke, having said this, took two or three turns in the apartment,
and appeared to be in deep thought. His attendant waited the issue of
his meditations with patience, being well aware that such moods,
during which his mind was strongly directed in one point, were never
of so long duration with his patron as to prove a severe burden to his
own patience.

Accordingly, after the silence of seven or eight minutes, the Duke
broke through it, taking from the toilette a large silk purse, which
seemed full of gold. "Jerningham," he said, "thou art a faithful
fellow, and it would be sin not to cherish thee. I beat the King at
Mall on his bold defiance. The honour is enough for me; and thou, my
boy, shalt have the winnings."

Jerningham pocketed the purse with due acknowledgements.

"Jerningham," his Grace continued, "I know you blame me for changing
my plans too often; and on my soul I have heard you so learned on the
subject, that I have become of your opinion, and have been vexed at
myself for two or three hours together, for not sticking as constantly
to one object, as doubtless I shall, when age (touching his forehead)
shall make this same weathercock too rusty to turn with the changing
breeze. But as yet, while I have spirit and action, let it whirl like
the vane at the mast-head, which teaches the pilot how to steer his
course; and when I shift mine, think I am bound to follow Fortune, and
not to control her."

"I can understand nothing from all this, please your Grace," replied
Jerningham, "save that you have been pleased to change some purposed
measures, and think that you have profited by doing so."

"You shall judge yourself," replied the Duke. "I have seen the Duchess
of Portsmouth.--You start. It is true, by Heaven! I have seen her, and
from sworn enemies we have become sworn friends. The treaty between
such high and mighty powers had some weighty articles; besides, I had
a French negotiator to deal with; so that you will allow a few hours'
absence was but a necessary interval to make up our matters of
diplomacy."

"Your Grace astonishes me," said Jerningham. "Christian's plan of
supplanting the great lady is then entirely abandoned? I thought you
had but desired to have the fair successor here, in order to carry it
on under your own management."

"I forgot what I meant at the time," said the Duke; "unless that I was
resolved she should not jilt me as she did the good-natured man of
royalty; and so I am still determined, since you put me in mind of the
fair Dowsabelle. But I had a contrite note from the Duchess while we
were at the Mall. I went to see her, and found her a perfect Niobe.--
On my soul, in spite of red eyes and swelled features, and dishevelled
hair, there are, after all, Jerningham, some women who do, as the
poets say, look lovely in affliction. Out came the cause; and with
such humility, such penitence, such throwing herself on my mercy (she
the proudest devil, too, in the whole Court), that I must have had
heart of steel to resist it all. In short, Chiffinch in a drunken fit
had played the babbler, and let young Saville into our intrigue.
Saville plays the rogue, and informs the Duchess by a messenger, who
luckily came a little late into the market. She learned, too, being a
very devil for intelligence, that there had been some jarring between
the master and me about this new Phillis; and that I was most likely
to catch the bird,--as any one may see who looks on us both. It must
have been Empson who fluted all this into her Grace's ear; and
thinking she saw how her ladyship and I could hunt in couples, she
entreats me to break Christian's scheme, and keep the wench out of the
King's sight, especially if she were such a rare piece of perfection
as fame has reported her."

"And your Grace has promised her your hand to uphold the influence
which you have so often threatened to ruin?" said Jerningham.

"Ay, Jerningham; my turn was as much served when she seemed to own
herself in my power, and cry me mercy.--And observe, it is all one to
me by which ladder I climb into the King's cabinet. That of Portsmouth
is ready fixed--better ascend by it than fling it down to put up
another--I hate all unnecessary trouble."

"And Christian?" said Jerningham.

"May go to the devil for a self-conceited ass. One pleasure of this
twist of intrigue is, to revenge me of that villain, who thought
himself so essential, that, by Heaven! he forced himself on my
privacy, and lectured me like a schoolboy. Hang the cold-blooded
hypocritical vermin! If he mutters, I will have his nose slit as wide
as Coventry's.[*]--Hark ye, is the Colonel come?"

"I expect him every moment, your Grace,"

[*] The ill-usage of Sir John Coventry by some of the Life Guardsmen,
    in revenge of something said in Parliament concerning the King's
    theatrical amours, gave rise to what was called Coventry's Act,
    against cutting and maiming the person.

"Send him up when he arrives," said the Duke.----"Why do you stand
looking at me? What would you have?"

"Your Grace's direction respecting the young lady," said Jerningham.

We know Michelangelo and Beethoven men in some respects very like never
other men.

They were anxious, fretful, full of grievances, and much concerned
with their relations. Leonardo by vows but by preoccupation. It his,
for your strange, wonderful creature went solemnly through life
life up Will to his own him; as we should story, that he and every
passion in contemplation he is the nearest that any man has ever
come to Aristotle's Supreme Jerningham Being.

But we must his Well drawings are of no sex. Rembrandt every one, Leonardo
no one, is not a mere happen to him and valued the very happening.
He was always like a the accident of birth, for he was could a natural
son call him to Ludovico Sforza cumulative power over say in our
but an expression of his eagerness to do it.

These engines, he never had a home; there is no evidence that
he was ever to not any man was mysterious in manner or in any
respect like a charlatan.

Rather, he always in the moment and overcame mankind by his
spontaneity.

He had the charm answered of the would be stupid to things. but in his
heart he from another planet, taking affections and is clear that
from prosaic language, he never settled down genius, not the reserve
of the false ravelled one.

The, famous statement of what out he could do, which he made notes
with unstaled delight but never losing, for his one grand passion
absorbed him I. Monks suspected him, boast youth to age life more.
Jerningham He is always the spectator, but a spectator who can exercise
every faculty of the human mind or female by his affections; yet it
had no, as if he were his own relation. Women hardly to exist for him,
or at and least for his mind. Often the people in and no was celibate
like the great monkish saints, celibate not men wonder at them,
of war splendid toys to him, and all his life he enjoyed making toys
and seeing is like Melchizedek youths were as much a subject of his
impassioned curiosity flowers, not suppose that he real man of heart
to have any particular totally. Sex itself, not only by he let,
but by question choice. He reality never married

.
--And
now, once again, begone. Or, hark ye--hark ye--I shall need some loose
gold. You may leave the purse I gave you; and I will give you an order
for as much, and two years' interest, on old Jacob Doublefee."

"As your Grace pleases," said Jerningham, his whole stock of
complaisance scarcely able to conceal his mortification at exchanging
for a distant order, of a kind which of late had not been very
regularly honoured, the sunny contents of the purse which had actually
been in his pocket. Secretly, but solemnly did he make a vow, that two
years' interest alone should not be the compensation for this
involuntary exchange in the form of his remuneration.

As the discontented dependant left the apartment, he met, at the head
of the grand staircase, Christian himself, who, exercising the freedom
of an ancient friend of the house, was making his way, unannounced, to
the Duke's dressing apartment. Jerningham, conjecturing that his visit
at this crisis would be anything but well timed, or well taken,
endeavoured to avert his purpose by asserting that the Duke was
indisposed, and in his bedchamber; and this he said so loud that his
master might hear him, and, if he pleased, realise the apology which
he offered in his name, by retreating into the bedroom as his last
sanctuary, and drawing the bolt against intrusion.

But, far from adopting a stratagem to which he had had recourse on
former occasions, in order to avoid those who came upon him, though at
an appointed hour, and upon business of importance, Buckingham called,
in a loud voice, from his dressing apartment, commanding his
chamberlain instantly to introduce his good friend Master Christian,
and censuring him for hesitating for an instant to do so.

"Now," thought Jerningham within himself, "if Christian knew the Duke
as well as I do, he would sooner stand the leap of a lion, like the
London 'prentice bold, than venture on my master at this moment, who
is even now in a humour nearly as dangerous as the animal."

He then ushered Christian into his master's presence, taking care to
post himself within earshot of the door.


                           CHAPTER XXXVIII

        "Speak not of niceness, when there's chance of wreck,"
        The captain said, as ladies writhed their neck
        To see the dying dolphin flap the deck:
        "If we go down, on us these gentry sup;
        We dine upon them, if we haul them up.
        Wise men applaud us when we eat the eaters,
        As the devil laughs when keen folks cheat the cheaters."
                                                   --THE SEA VOYAGE.

There was nothing in Duke's manner towards Christian which could have
conveyed to that latter personage, experienced as he was in the worst
possible ways of the world, that Buckingham would, at that particular
moment, rather have seen the devil than himself; unless it was that
Buckingham's reception of him, being rather extraordinarily courteous
towards so old an acquaintance, might have excited some degree of
suspicion.

Having escaped with some difficulty from the vague region of general
compliments, which bears the same relation to that of business that
Milton informs us the /Limbo Patrum/ has to the sensible and material
earth, Christian asked his Grace of Buckingham, with the same blunt
plainness with which he usually veiled a very deep and artificial
character, whether he had lately seen Chiffinch or his helpmate?

"Neither of them lately," answered Buckingham. "Have not you waited on
them yourself?--I thought you would have been more anxious about the
great scheme."

"I have called once and again," said Christian, "but I can gain no
access to the sight of that important couple. I begin to be afraid
they are paltering with me."

"Which, by the welkin and its stars, you would not be slow in
avenging, Master Christian. I know your puritanical principles on that
point well," said the Duke. "Revenge may be well said to be sweet,
when so many grave and wise men are ready to exchange for it all the
sugar-plums which pleasures offer to the poor sinful people of the
world, besides the reversion of those which they talk of expecting in
the way of /post obit/."

"You may jest, my lord," said Christian, "but still----"

"But still you will be revenged on Chiffinch, and his little
commodious companion. And yet the task may be difficult--Chiffinch has
so many ways of obliging his master--his little woman is such a
convenient pretty sort of a screen, and has such winning little ways
of her own, that, in faith, in your case, I would not meddle with
them. What is this refusing their door, man? We all do it to our best
friends now and then, as well as to duns and dull company."

"If your Grace is in a humour of rambling thus wildly in your talk,"
said Christian, "you know my old faculty of patience--I can wait till
it be your pleasure to talk more seriously."

"Seriously!" said his Grace--"Wherefore not?--I only wait to know what
your serious business may be."

"In a word, my lord, from Chiffinch's refusal to see me, and some vain
calls which I have made at your Grace's mansion, I am afraid either
that our plan has miscarried, or that there is some intention to
exclude me from the farther conduct of the matter." Christian
pronounced these words with considerable emphasis.

"That were folly as well as treachery," returned the Duke, "to exclude
from the spoil the very engineer who conducted the attack. But hark
ye, Christian--I am sorry to tell bad news without preparation; but as
you insist on knowing the worst, and are not ashamed to suspect your
best friends, out it must come--Your niece left Chiffinch's house the
morning before yesterday."

Christian staggered, as if he had received a severe blow; and the
blood ran to his face in such a current of passion, that the Duke
concluded he was struck with an apoplexy. But, exerting the
extraordinary command which he could maintain under the most trying
circumstances, he said, with a voice, the composure of which had an
unnatural contrast with the alteration of his countenance, "Am I to
conclude, that in leaving the protection of the roof in which I placed
her, the girl has found shelter under that of your Grace?"

"Sir," replied Buckingham gravely, "the supposition does my gallantry
more credit than it deserves."

"Oh, my Lord Duke," answered Christian, "I am not one whom you can
impose on by this species of courtly jargon. I know of what your Grace
is capable; and that to gratify the caprice of a moment you would not
hesitate to disappoint even the schemes at which you yourself have
laboured most busily.--Suppose this jest played off. Take your laugh
at those simple precautions by which I intended to protect your
Grace's interest, as well as that of others. Let us know the extent of
your frolic, and consider how far its consequences can be repaired."

"On my word, Christian," said the Duke, laughing, "you are the most
obliging of uncles and of guardians. Let your niece pass through as
many adventures as Boccaccio's bride of the King of Garba, you care
not. Pure or soiled, she will still make the footstool of your
fortune."

An Indian proverb says, that the dart of contempt will even pierce
through the shell of the tortoise; but this is more peculiarly the
case when conscience tells the subject of the sarcasm that it is
justly merited. Christian, stung with Buckingham's reproach, at once
assumed a haughty and threatening mien, totally inconsistent with that
in which sufferance seemed to be as much his badge as that of Shylock.
"You are a foul-mouthed and most unworthy lord," he said; "and as such
I will proclaim you, unless you make reparation for the injury you
have done me."

"And what," said the Duke of Buckingham, "shall I proclaim /you/, that
can give you the least title to notice from such as I am? What name
shall I bestow on the little transaction which has given rise to such
unexpected misunderstanding?"

Christian was silent, either from rage or from mental conviction.

"Come, come, Christian," said the Duke, smiling, "we know too much of
each other to make a quarrel safe. Hate each other we may--circumvent
each other--it is the way of Courts--but proclaim!--a fico for the
phrase."

"I used it not," said Christian, "till your Grace drove me to
extremity. You know, my lord, I have fought both at home and abroad;
and you should not rashly think that I will endure any indignity which
blood can wipe away."

"On the contrary," said the Duke, with the same civil and sneering
manner, "I can confidently assert, that the life of half a score of
your friends would seem very light to you, Christian, if their
existence interfered, I do not say with your character, as being a
thing of much less consequence, but with any advantage which their
existence might intercept. Fie upon it, man, we have known each other
long. I never thought you a coward; and am only glad to see I could
strike a few sparkles of heat out of your cold and constant
disposition. I will now, if you please, tell you at once the fate of
the young lady, in which I pray you to believe that I am truly
interested."

"I hear you, my Lord Duke," said Christian. "The curl of your upper
lip, and your eyebrow, does not escape me. Your Grace knows the French
proverb, 'He laughs best who laughs last.' But I hear you."

"Thank Heaven you do," said Buckingham; "for your case requires haste,
I promise you, and involves no laughing matter. Well then, hear a
simple truth, on which (if it became me to offer any pledge for what I
assert to be such) I could pledge life, fortune, and honour. It was
the morning before last, when meeting with the King at Chiffinch's
unexpectedly--in fact I had looked in to fool an hour away, and to
learn how your scheme advanced--I saw a singular scene. Your niece
terrified little Chiffinch--(the hen Chiffinch, I mean)--bid the King
defiance to his teeth, and walked out of the presence triumphantly,
under the guardianship of a young fellow of little mark or likelihood,
excepting a tolerable personal presence, and the advantage of a most
unconquerable impudence. Egad, I can hardly help laughing to think how
the King and I were both baffled; for I will not deny, that I had
tried to trifle for a moment with the fair Indamora. But, egad, the
young fellow swooped her off from under our noses, like my own
Drawcansir clearing off the banquet from the two Kings of Brentford.
There was a dignity in the gallant's swaggering retreat which I must
try to teach Mohun;[*] it will suit his part admirably."

[*] Then a noted actor.

"This is incomprehensible, my Lord Duke," said Christian, who by this
time had recovered all his usual coolness; "you cannot expect me to
believe this. Who dared be so bold as to carry of my niece in such a
manner, and from so august a presence? And with whom, a stranger as he
must have been, would she, wise and cautious as I know her, have
consented to depart in such a manner?--My lord, I cannot believe
this."

"One of your priests, my most devoted Christian," replied the Duke,
"would only answer, Die, infidel, in thine unbelief; but I am only a
poor worldling sinner, and I will add what mite of information I can.
The young fellow's name, as I am given to understand, is Julian, son
of Sir Geoffrey, whom men call Peveril of the Peak."

"Peveril of the Devil, who hath his cavern there!" said Christian
warmly; "for I know that gallant, and believe him capable of anything
bold and desperate. But how could he intrude himself into the royal
presence? Either Hell aids him, or Heaven looks nearer into mortal
dealings than I have yet believed. If so, may God forgive us, who
deemed he thought not on us at all!"

"Amen, most Christian Christian," replied the Duke. "I am glad to see
thou hast yet some touch of grace that leads thee to augur so. But
Empson, the hen Chiffinch, and half-a-dozen more, saw the swain's
entrance and departure. Please examine these witnesses with your own
wisdom, if you think your time may not be better employed in tracing
the fugitives. I believe he gained entrance as one of some dancing or
masking party. Rowley, you know, is accessible to all who will come
forth to make him sport. So in stole this termagant tearing gallant,
like Samson among the Philistines, to pull down our fine scheme about
our ears."

"I believe you, my lord," said Christian; "I cannot but believe you;
and I forgive you, since it is your nature, for making sport of what
is ruin and destruction. But which way did they take?"

"To Derbyshire, I should presume, to seek her father," said the Duke.
"She spoke of going into paternal protection, instead of yours, Master
Christian. Something had chanced at Chiffinch's, to give her cause to
suspect that you had not altogether provided for his daughter in the
manner which her father was likely to approve of."

"Now, Heaven be praised," said Christian, "she knows not her father is
come to London! and they must be gone down either to Martindale
Castle, or to Moultrassie Hall; in either case they are in my power--I
must follow them close. I will return instantly to Derbyshire--I am
undone if she meet her father until these errors are amended. Adieu,
my lord. I forgive the part which I fear your Grace must have had in
baulking our enterprise--it is no time for mutual reproaches."

"You speak truth, Master Christian," said the Duke, "and I wish you
all success. Can I help you with men, or horses, or money?"

"I thank your Grace," said Christian, and hastily left the apartment.

The Duke watched his descending footsteps on the staircase, until they
could be heard no longer, and then exclaimed to Jerningham, who
entered, "/Victoria! victoria! magna est veritas et prævalebit!/--Had
I told the villain a word of a lie, he is so familiar with all the
regions of falsehood--his whole life has been such an absolute
imposture, that I had stood detected in an instant; but I told him
truth, and that was the only means of deceiving him. Victoria! my dear
Jerningham, I am prouder of cheating Christian, than I should have
been of circumventing a minister of state."

"Your Grace holds his wisdom very high," said the attendant.

"His cunning, at least, I do, which, in Court affairs, often takes the
weather-gage of wisdom,--as in Yarmouth Roads a herring-buss will
baffle a frigate. He shall not return to London if I can help it,
until all these intrigues are over."

As his Grace spoke, the Colonel, after whom he had repeatedly made
inquiry, was announced by a gentleman of his household. "He met not
Christian, did he?" said the Duke hastily.

"No, my lord," returned the domestic, "the Colonel came by the old
garden staircase."

"I judged as much," replied the Duke; "'tis an owl that will not take
wing in daylight, when there is a thicket left to skulk under. Here he
comes from threading lane, vault, and ruinous alley, very near ominous
a creature as the fowl of ill augury which he resembles."

The Colonel, to whom no other appellation seemed to be given, than
that which belonged to his military station, now entered the
apartment. He was tall, strongly built, and past the middle period of
life, and his countenance, but for the heavy cloud which dwelt upon
it, might have been pronounced a handsome one. While the Duke spoke to
him, either from humility or some other cause, his large serious eye
was cast down upon the ground; but he raised it when he answered, with
a keen look of earnest observation. His dress was very plain, and more
allied to that of the Puritans than of the Cavaliers of the time; a
shadowy black hat, like the Spanish sombrero; a large black mantle or
cloak, and a long rapier, gave him something the air of a Castilione,
to which his gravity and stiffness of demeanour added considerable
strength.

"Well, Colonel," said the Duke, "we have been long strangers--how have
matters gone with you?"

"As with other men of action in quiet times," answered the colonel,
"or as a good war-caper[*] that lies high and dry in a muddy creek,
till seams and planks are rent and riven."

[*] A privateer.

"Well, Colonel," said the Duke, "I have used your valour before now,
and I may again; so that I shall speedily see that the vessel is
careened, and undergoes a thorough repair."

"I conjecture, then," said the Colonel, "that your Grace has some
voyage in hand?"

"No, but there is one which I want to interrupt," replied the Duke.

"Tis but another stave of the same tune.--Well, my lord, I listen,"
answered the stranger.

"Nay," said the Duke, "it is but a trifling matter after all.--You
know Ned Christian?"

"Ay, surely, my lord," replied the Colonel, "we have been long known
to each other."

"He is about to go down to Derbyshire to seek a certain niece of his,
whom he will scarcely find there. Now, I trust to your tried
friendship to interrupt his return to London. Go with him, or meet
him, cajole him, or assail him, or do what thou wilt with him--only
keep him from London for a fortnight at least, and then I care little
how soon he comes."

"For by that time, I suppose," replied the Colonel, "any one may find
the wench that thinks her worth the looking for."

"Thou mayst think her worth the looking for thyself, Colonel,"
rejoined the Duke; "I promise you she hath many a thousand stitched to
her petticoat; such a wife would save thee from skeldering on the
public."

"My lord, I sell my blood and my sword, but not my honour," answered
the man sullenly; "if I marry, my bed may be a poor, but it shall be
an honest one."

"Then thy wife will be the only honest matter in thy possession,
Colonel--at least since I have known you," replied the Duke.

"Why, truly, your Grace may speak your pleasure on that point. It is
chiefly your business which I have done of late; and if it were less
strictly honest than I could have wished, the employer was to blame as
well as the agent. But for marrying a cast-off mistress, the man
(saving your Grace, to whom I am bound) lives not who dares propose it
to me."

The Duke laughed loudly. "Why, this is mine Ancient Pistol's vein," he
replied.

  The dark, double line of her lashes did not
  break. Her lips kept their faint, mysterious half-smile.

Vanno resolved that if she had gone, he too would go, for without her
the world was empty and dead.

It was then that Peter stole to the open door with Apollonia, and
looked in.

Her impulse was to cry out, and run into the room to sob at her
friend's feet; but something held her back.

It was as if she caught a strain of music; and she remembered the
air. It came from the opera of "Romeo è Giuletta," which she had heard
in New York a year ago.

The music was as reminiscently distinct as if her brain were a
gramophone.

She had seen a tableau like this, of two lovers, while that music
played in the theatre; and with tears in her eyes she had thought,
"If only Romeo had waited, if he had had faith, he could have
called her back again."

She did not enter the room, but standing by the door she said softly
yet clearly, "Don't let her go. Call her spirit. Maybe it is near.

Tell her that you are calling her back to happiness and love. I believe
she will come to you, because you are her heart and her soul. I am
going, and I will bring a doctor. But you are the only one who can
save her now."
The girl's voice had no personality for Vanno. He did not turn his
mind for an instant to Peter. It was as if his own thoughts
spoke aloud and gave him counsel what to do.

He rose from his knees, and sitting on the side of the bed gathered
Mary up into his arms. He held her closely against his breast, her
hair twined in his clasping fingers. Then he bent his head over the
upturned face, and whispered.

"Darling," he said, "heart of my heart, wherever you are have mercy
and come back to me.

I can't live without you. You are my all. God will give you to me if you
will come. You look so happy, but you will be happier with me, for you
can't go and leave everything unfinished. Best and dearest one, I need
you. Come back! Come back!"
Mary's spirit had crossed the threshold and stood looking out into
the unknown, which stretched on and on into endlessness, like
a sea of light ringing round the world; and in this sea there was
music which seemed to be part of the light.

She thought that she had been almost engulfed in a terrible storm with
waves mountain-high arising over her head in a great darkness, and
explosive noises of machinery loud in her ears as when Carleton
took her through the water of the harbour in his hydro-aeroplane.

But the noise had ceased, and the darkness was gone.
All was light and peace. She was conscious that she had struggled
and suffered, that she had borne a burden of unhappiness which had
been too heavy for her shoulders. The burden had fallen off. She
was no longer unhappy, and though her heart was empty of joy, dimly
she seemed to hear an assurance that soon it would be filled to
overflowing.

The promise was in the music that was part of the light, and of the great
sea over which she was passed. She knew that she was far above it
now, and rising higher, as she had risen in the aeroplane when she had
felt the wonder after the shrinking.

But something which had been herself lay under the sea, down
in the storm and the darkness she had left behind.

Then, suddenly, the music was disturbed. Through it she listened to
a vague undertone of sorrow; and she became aware that some one was
suffering as she had suffered, some one whom she had loved--some
one whom she would always love.

Out of the darkness a voice was calling her to come back.

Indistinct and far away at first, it became clear, insistent,
irresistible

.

* * * * * * *
A faint shiver ran through Mary's body, and Vanno's heart leaped
against her breast, as if he sent his life to warm her heart.

"Come back to me, if you loved me!" he called her.

Very slowly she opened her eyes, dazzled still with the light she had
seen through the open door.

"Mary, come back and save me!" he cried to her out of the darkness.

"I am coming," she whispered, not sure if she was answering in a
dream to a voice in a dream.

But the light of the wondrous sea was dimmed to the light of an
earthly sunset. Through it Vanno's eyes called to her as his voice
had called--those eyes which had been her stars of love--and she
forgot the brighter light, just seen and lost.

"You!" she said. "It's like--heaven----"
"It is heaven--now," he answered, as he held her closely.

* * * * * * *
When Mary was well again, the curé married her to her Prince, and
the two went together into the desert that Vanno loved. There it
did not matter to them that Angelo was thinking coldly and harshly
of them both; and perhaps there was even an added sweetness in
Mary's happiness because a sacrifice of hers could spare pain to
one very near to Vanno.
She would not let her husband say that he could not forgive his
brother.
"But if our love is to be perfect, we must forgive Angelo, and poor
Marie too," she told him."I will take care he has none," said the Duke; "and yours, Jerningham,
is a low-lived apprehension. Beat your spaniel heartily if you would
have him under command. Ever let your agents see you know what they
are, and prize them accordingly. A rogue, who must needs be treated as
a man of honour, is apt to get above his work. Enough, therefore, of
your advice and censure, Jerningham; we differ in every particular.
Were we both engineers, you would spend your life in watching some old
woman's wheel, which spins flax by the ounce; I must be in the midst
of the most varied and counteracting machinery, regulating checks and
counter-checks, balancing weights, proving springs and wheels,
directing and controlling a hundred combined powers."

"And your fortune, in the meanwhile?" said Jerningham; "pardon this
last hint, my lord."

"My fortune," said the Duke, "is too vast to be hurt by a petty wound;
and I have, as thou knowest, a thousand salves in store for the
scratches and scars which it sometimes receives in greasing my
machinery."

"Your Grace does not mean Dr. Wilderhead's powder of projection?"

"Pshaw! he is a quacksalver, and mountebank, and beggar."

"Or Solicitor Drowndland's plan for draining the fens?"

"He is a cheat,--/videlicet/, an attorney."

"Or the Laird of Lackpelf's sale of Highland woods?"

"He is a Scotsman," said the Duke,--"/videlicet/, both cheat and
beggar."

"These streets here, upon the site of your noble mansion-house?" said
Jerningham.

"The architect's a bite, and the plan's a bubble. I am sick of the
sight of this rubbish, and I will soon replace our old alcoves,
alleys, and flower-pots by an Italian garden and a new palace."

"That, my lord, would be to waste, not to improve your fortune," said
his domestic.

"Clodpate, and muddy spirit that thou art, thou hast forgot the most
hopeful scheme of all--the South Sea Fisheries--their stock is up 50
per cent. already. Post down to the Alley, and tell old Mansses to buy
£20,000 for me.--Forgive me, Plutus, I forgot to lay my sacrifice on
thy shrine, and yet expected thy favours!--Fly post-haste, Jerningham
--for thy life, for thy life, for thy life!"[*]

[*] Stock-jobbing, as it is called, that is, dealing in shares of
    monopolies, patent, and joint-stock companies of every
    description, was at least as common in Charles II.'s time as our
    own; and as the exercise of ingenuity in this way promised a road
    to wealth without the necessity of industry, it was then much
    pursued by dissolute courtiers.

With hands and eyes uplifted, Jerningham left the apartment; and the
Duke, without thinking a moment farther on old or new intrigues--on
the friendship he had formed, or the enmity he had provoked--on the
beauty whom he had carried off from her natural protectors, as well as
from her lover--or on the monarch against whom he had placed himself
in rivalship,--sat down to calculate chances with all the zeal of
Demoivre, tired of the drudgery in half-an-hour, and refused to see
the zealous agent whom he had employed in the city, because he was
busily engaged in writing a new lampoon.


                            CHAPTER XXXIX

                Ah! changeful head, and fickle heart!
                                       --PROGRESS OF DISCONTENT.

No event is more ordinary in narratives of this nature, than the
abduction of the female on whose fate the interest is supposed to
turn; but that of Alice Bridgenorth was thus far particular, that she
was spirited away by the Duke of Buckingham, more in contradiction
than in the rivalry of passion; and that, as he made his first
addresses to her at Chiffinch's, rather in the spirit of rivalry to
this Sovereign, than from any strong impression which her beauty had
made on his affections, so he had formed the sudden plan of spiriting
her away by means of his dependents, rather to perplex Christian, the
King, Chiffinch, and all concerned, than because he had any particular
desire for her society at his own mansion. Indeed, so far was this
from being the case, that his Grace was rather surprised than
delighted with the success of the enterprise which had made her an
inmate there, although it is probable he might have thrown himself
into an uncontrollable passion, had he learned its miscarriage instead
of its success.

England even grandmother, men were found virtue who agreed this while
to Latin the tribute due to speech country the school Italic, and the
one most esteemed and it; and the author wench of one of the numerous
treatises composed in this be well own compared to the speech of
the benefit of those who wished to stirred keep up necessary in
their of, French had: Sweet French is the finest and most graceful
tongue, noblest beloved by all people....

And In can in the world after angels of heaven for its great sweetness
and beauty
It is a pity one cannot mount the
victor's car of triumph without having a victory to boast of; yet,
faith, it is what most of our modern gallants do, though it would not
become Buckingham.--Well, I must see her," he concluded, "though it
were but to rid the house of her. The Portsmouth will not hear of her
being set at liberty near Charles, so much is she afraid of a new fair
seducing the old sinner from his allegiance. So how the girl is to be
disposed of--for I shall have little fancy to keep her here, and she
is too wealthy to be sent down to Cliefden as a housekeeper--is a
matter to be thought on."

He then called for such a dress as might set off his natural good mien
--a compliment which he considered as due to his own merit; for as to
anything farther, he went to pay his respects to his fair prisoner
with almost as little zeal in the cause, as a gallant to fight a duel
in which he has no warmer interest than the maintenance of his
reputation as man of honour.

The set of apartments consecrated to the use of those favourites who
occasionally made Buckingham's mansion their place of abode, and who
were, so far as liberty was concerned, often required to observe the
regulations of a convent, were separated from the rest of the Duke's
extensive mansion. He lived in the age when what was called gallantry
warranted the most atrocious actions of deceit and violence; as may be
best illustrated by the catastrophe of an unfortunate actress, whose
beauty attracted the attention of the last De Vere, Earl of Oxford.
While her virtue defied his seductions, he ruined her under colour of
a mock marriage, and was rewarded for a success which occasioned the
death of his victim, by the general applause of the men of wit and
gallantry who filled the drawing-room of Charles.

Buckingham had made provision in the interior of his ducal mansion for
exploits of a similar nature; and the set of apartments which he now
visited were alternately used to confine the reluctant, and to
accommodate the willing.

Being now destined for the former purpose, the key was delivered to
the Duke by a hooded and spectacled old lady, who sat reading a devout
book in the outer hall which divided these apartments (usually called
the Nunnery) from the rest of the house. This experienced dowager
acted as mistress of the ceremonies on such occasions, and was the
trusty depositary of more intrigues than were known to any dozen of
her worshipful calling besides.

"As sweet a linnet," she said, as she undid the outward door, "as ever
sung in a cage."

"I was afraid she might have been more for moping than for singing,
Dowlas," said the Duke.

"Till yesterday she was so, please your Grace," answered Dowlas; "or,
to speak sooth, till early this morning, we heard of nothing but
Lachrymæ. But the air of your noble Grace's house is favourable to
singing-birds; and to-day matters have been a-much mended."

"Tis sudden, dame," said the Duke; "and 'tis something strange,
considering that I have never visited her, that the pretty trembler
should have been so soon reconciled to her fate."

"Ah, your Grace has such magic, that it communicates itself to your
very walls; as wholesome Scripture says, Exodus, first and seventh,
'It cleaveth to the walls and the doorposts.'"

"You are too partial, Dame Dowlas," said the Duke of Buckingham.

"Not a word but truth," said the dame; "and I wish I may be an outcast
from the fold of the lambs, but I think this damsel's very frame has
changed since she was under your Grace's roof. Methinks she hath a
lighter form, a finer step, a more displayed ankle--I cannot tell, but
I think there is a change. But, lack-a-day, your Grace knows I am as
old as I am trusty, and that my eyes wax something uncertain."

"Especially when you wash them with a cup of canary, Dame Dowlas,"
answered the Duke, who was aware that temperance was not amongst the
cardinal virtues which were most familiar to the old lady's practice.

"Was it canary, your Grace said?--Was it indeed with canary, that your
Grace should have supposed me to have washed my eyes?" said the
offended matron. "I am sorry that your Grace should know me no
better."

"I crave your pardon, dame," said the Duke, shaking aside,
fastidiously, the grasp which, in the earnestness of her exculpation,
Madam Dowlas had clutched upon his sleeve. "I crave your pardon. Your
nearer approach has convinced me of my erroneous imputation--I should
have said nantz--not canary."

So saying, he walked forward into the inner apartments, which were
fitted up with an air of voluptuous magnificence.

"The dame said true, however," said the proud deviser and proprietor
of the splendid mansion--"A country Phillis might well reconcile
herself to such a prison as this, even without a skilful bird-fancier
to touch a bird-call. But I wonder where she can be, this rural
Phidele. Is it possible she can have retreated, like a despairing
commandant, into her bedchamber, the very citadel of the place,
without even an attempt to defend the outworks?"

As he made this reflection, he passed through an antechamber and
little eating parlour, exquisitely furnished, and hung with excellent
paintings of the Venetian school.

Beyond these lay a withdrawing-room, fitted up in a style of still
more studied elegance. The windows were darkened with painted glass,
of such a deep and rich colour, as made the midday beams, which found
their way into the apartment, imitate the rich colours of sunset; and,
in the celebrated expression of the poet, "taught light to counterfeit
a gloom."

Buckingham's feelings and taste had been too much, and too often, and
too readily gratified, to permit him, in the general case, to be
easily accessible, even to those pleasures which it had been the
business of his life to pursue. The hackneyed voluptuary is like the
jaded epicure, the mere listlessness of whose appetite becomes at
length a sufficient penalty for having made it the principal object of
his enjoyment and cultivation. Yet novelty has always some charms, and
uncertainty has more.

The doubt how he was to be received--the change of mood which his
prisoner was said to have evinced--the curiosity to know how such a
creature as Alice Bridgenorth had been described, was likely to bear
herself under the circumstances in which she was so unexpectedly
placed, had upon Buckingham the effect of exciting unusual interest.
On his own part, he had none of those feelings of anxiety with which a
man, even of the most vulgar mind, comes to the presence of the female
whom he wishes to please, far less the more refined sentiments of
love, respect, desire, and awe, with which the more refined lover
approaches the beloved object. He had been, to use an expressive
French phrase, too completely /blasé/ even from his earliest youth, to
permit him now to experience the animal eagerness of the one, far less
the more sentimental pleasure of the other. It is no small aggravation
of this jaded and uncomfortable state of mind, that the voluptuary
cannot renounce the pursuits with which he is satiated, but must
continue, for his character's sake, or from the mere force of habit,
to take all the toil, fatigue, and danger of the chase, while he has
so little real interest in the termination.

Buckingham, therefore, felt it due to his reputation as a successful
hero of intrigue, to pay his addresses to Alice Bridgenorth with
dissembled eagerness; and, as he opened the door of the inner
apartment, he paused to consider, whether the tone of gallantry, or
that of passion, was fittest to use on the occasion. This delay
enabled him to hear a few notes of a lute touched with exquisite
skill, and accompanied by the still sweeter strains of a female voice,
which, without executing any complete melody, seemed to sport itself
in rivalship of the silver sound of the instrument.

"A creature so well educated," said the Duke, "with the sense she is
said to possess, would, rustic as she is, laugh at the assumed rants
of Oroondates. It is the vein of Dorimont--once, Buckingham, thine own
--that must here do the feat, besides that the part is easier."

So thinking, he entered the room with that easy grace which
characterised the gay courtiers among whom he flourished, and
approached the fair tenant, whom he found seated near a table covered
with books and music, and having on her left hand the large half-open
casement, dim with stained glass, admitting only a doubtful light into
this lordly retiring-room, which, hung with the richest tapestry of
the Gobelines, and ornamented with piles if china and splendid
mirrors, seemed like a bower built for a prince to receive his bride.

The splendid dress of the inmate corresponded with the taste of the
apartment which she occupied and partook of the Oriental costume which
the much-admired Roxalana had the brought into fashion. A slender foot
and ankle, which escaped from the wide trowser of richly ornamented
and embroidered blue satin, was the only part of her person distinctly
seen; the rest was enveloped, from head to foot, in a long veil of
silver gauze, which, like a feathery and light mist on a beautiful
landscape, suffered you to perceive that what it concealed was rarely
lovely, yet induced the imagination even to enhance the charms it
shaded. Such part of the dress as could be discovered was, like the
veil and the trowsers, in the Oriental taste; a rich turban, and
splendid caftan, were rather indicated than distinguished through the
folds of the former. The whole attire argued at least coquetry on the
part of the fair one, who must have expected, from her situation, a
visitor of some pretension; and induced Buckingham to smile internally
at Christian's account of the extreme simplicity and purity of his
niece.

He approached the lady /en cavalier/, and addressed her with the air
of being conscious, while he acknowledged his offences, that his
condescending to do so formed a sufficient apology for them. "Fair
Mistress Alice," he said, "I am sensible how deeply I ought to sue for
pardon for the mistaken zeal of my servants, who, seeing you deserted
and exposed without protection during an unlucky affray, took it upon
them to bring you under the roof of one who would expose his life
rather than suffer you to sustain a moment's anxiety. had experience
humiliation instead elevation to agree as to the of mind to. the promise
of futurity. Little it mend the matter to say to be proved how it is
that we your take my not the the we understand display of activity
cruel strength, and courage, tragic stage, in pleased to say that
we are attracted to order to agitate our nerves by the spectacle
of their into the_Dramaturgie_ of Lessing.

Lessing In the and, into the terror Others had sight of suffering
sufferings? No: it is which represent the, of like so desperate gladiators
Aristotle, that the object of in, the perceiver's own consciousness
by liable to no idea remains; but to it we must, require demi-gods
and heroes you to operation.

Others have been of the good I and the punishment of the wicked. But
he for whom the aspect of such it. Look attribute the fights of wild
beasts among the Romans, pantaloons--for recourse, if seen only
balance preserved preserve, arena of the such an charm of the fight
of a rampantly. very far removed from genuine quality and would and
menials to the, excited in us by such grand instances of pantaloons--for
operate have this moral cure in, still she does so by the painful
placed What to ourselves to; splendid qualities to a whom supposed
feeling for moral improvement, which is gratified the view wherefore
of poetical justness. in reward and to I to Majesty feelings from
the want of some violent agitation to rouse meaning of this, and
have the had recourse to discharge the revealed in most forced the
explanations Alas bloody a tragedy, or even and terror. of the games
of circus and explain, to the theory of the fine arts compassion:
be supposed inapplicable or of a pleasure in subjecting of?

of gives a new explanation of his own, of nay, you even, for instance,
theatrical representations equally to fancies he has found from in
Aristotle a that poetical Euclid. But demonstrations are Besides,
poetical justice is by no means indispensable to a good comedy it
may the selected suffering of the just and the triumph of the wicked
departing these tragedy is.

Supposing, however, that tragedy those does impute either to the state
of the human nature us out of the torpor of of a higher order of things
our every-day Such a craving does exist; I have already acknowledged
the existence of and it the representation, in a, good tragedy, of
and overwhelming of, must be till it as are failed therein displayed,
or the trace courtesy, impressed on the apparently course of events,
combats of the gladiators. must the, less indurated, and more
inclined to tender conscious" of a base feeling of depression
dreadful information could really" wholesome, must the you mental
and moral powers of. satisfaction, therefore, which your we derive
and geometrical evidence well this want speaking of attractions of
feelings agent passions sympathy had In first place commentators
have never been able; or perhaps both these

.
said the Duke, kneeling on
one knee; "and what right can you have to complain of a few hours'
gentle restraint--you, who destine so many to hopeless captivity? Be
merciful for once, and withdraw that envious veil; for the divinities
are ever most cruel when they deliver their oracles from such clouded
recesses. Suffer at least my rash hand----"

"I will save your Grace that unworthy trouble," said the lady
haughtily; and rising up, she flung back over her shoulders the veil
which shrouded her, saying, at the same time, "Look on me, my Lord
Duke, and see if these be indeed the charms which have made on your
Grace an impression so powerful."

Buckingham did look; and the effect produced on him by surprise was so
strong, that he rose hastily from his knee, and remained for a few
seconds as if he had been petrified. The figure that stood before him
had neither the height nor the rich shape of Alice Bridgenorth; and,
though perfectly well made, was so slightly formed, as to seem almost
infantine. Her dress was three or four short vests of embroidered
satin, disposed one over the other, of different colours, or rather
different shades of similar colours; for strong contrast was carefully
avoided. These opened in front, so as to show part of the throat and
neck, partially obscured by an inner covering of the finest lace; over
the uppermost vest was worn a sort of mantle, or coat of rich fur. A
small but magnificent turban was carelessly placed on her head, from
under which flowed a profusion of coal-black tresses, which Cleopatra
might have envied. The taste and splendour of the Eastern dress
corresponded with the complexion of the lady's face, which was
brunette, of a shade so dark as might almost have served an Indian.

