Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, Janet Blenkinship
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was made using scans of
public domain works in the International Children's Digital
Library.)


  HOLLOWMELL:

  OR,

  A SCHOOLGIRL'S MISSION.

  BY

  E. R. Burden.


  GLASGOW:
  JOHN S. MARR & SONS,
  51 DUNDAS STREET.
  1881.


  CONTENTS.


  CHAPTER                                                           PAGE

  I. MINNIE'S PLAN                                                     5

  II. ITS DEVELOPMENT                                                 19

  III. PREPARATIONS                                                   29

  IV. THE FIRST ESSAY                                                 44

  V. AT THE ELEVENTH HOUR                                             54

  VI. A DISPUTE SETTLED                                               78

  VII. MONA'S DEFEAT                                                  94

  VIII. A SUCCESS                                                    115

  IX. THE END                                                        121


[Illustration]


HOLLOWMELL: OR, A SCHOOLGIRL'S MISSION.


CHAPTER I.

MINNIE'S PLAN.


"Why, wherever _can_ my books be?" exclaimed Minnie Kimberley in a vexed
tone, as she hunted up and down the schoolroom, opening now one
cupboard, then another, now a desk, and again diving down to peer under
some out-of-the-way table or form; for places which one would think the
most unlikely, were certain to be the places where Minnie's books would
at length be discovered.

"I can't make it out," she continued, her bright face clouded over with
vexation, "somehow or other my books always _do_ manage to get lost."

"Perhaps if you could manage to put them back in your desk when you had
done with them, instead of leaving them lying just wherever you happen
to be, they might manage to stay there," suggested Mona Cameron, a tall
young lady, who sat near the window sewing, and who had more than once
been disturbed by Minnie's voyage of discovery.

"Oh, I've found two of them!" cried Minnie, emerging from beneath a
distant table, her hands black with dust, and herself nothing abashed by
Mona's rather sarcastic speech. "I wonder, now, whether I shall be able
to hunt up the others before Mab finishes her music!"

"O, Mabel Chartres is away," volunteered one of the other girls, "I
heard her come down fully ten minutes ago."

"That can't be," replied Minnie, "she must have come in here for her
things before she went away."

"Not at all, seeing she carried them up to the music-room with her that
she might save time; I heard her say she wanted away soon."

Minnie flew to the corner where Mabel's hat and jacket usually hung, and
sure enough both were gone. She sat down for a minute ready to cry with
disappointment, but recovering herself immediately, she choked back the
tears, and proceeded with the search for her books, though in a rather
more subdued manner, and with a great deal less bustle and
talkativeness. At length they were all collected from their various
hiding-places, and Minnie was ready to depart, but she seemed in no
hurry to go. She stood leaning against the desk, with a rather
irresolute look on her face, as if trying to make up her mind to
something. More than once she moved as if to go, but something seemed to
arrest her step.

At last she turned to where Mona Cameron still sat at work, and said in
a clear voice which could be distinctly heard by all the girls in the
room, "I _will_ try, Mona, to take your advice about putting my books
back in my desk; I know I'm horribly careless, and I thank you for
reminding me how I can mend it if I try."

All the girls looked up amazed--Mona herself as amazed as any and also a
little confused--but Minnie did not wait to see what effect her words
would produce, she walked straight out after she had spoken, and was not
a little astonished, and perhaps a little perturbed, to find Miss Elgin,
the English governess, in the dressing-room where she could not choose
but hear what had passed. Her face flushed, and she tried to hurry out
without attracting her notice, but Miss Elgin stopped her as she passed
the desk at which she sat, and drawing the bright face down to the level
of her own, kissed her on the forehead with a whispered "That was
bravely spoken, Minnie," and let her go.

Jones, who went to ask the old folks for Miss Willis. On being told that
she was a very poor girl, and had no property for a start in life, he
simply said, "All right; all I want is the naked girl."
On one occasion, while inspecting the arms and accoutrements of our
regiments, when he came to inspect Company H he said, "Shentlemens,
vatfor you make de pothook out of de sword and de bayonet, and trow de
cartridge-box in de mud? I dust report you to Sheneral Bragg. Mine
gracious!" Approaching Orderly Sergeant John T. Tucker, and lifting
the flap of his cartridge box, which was empty, he said, "Bah, bah, mon
Dieu; I dust know dot you ish been hunting de squirrel and de
rabbit.

Mon Dieu! you sharge yourself mit fifteen tollars for wasting sixty
cartridges at twenty-five cents apiece. Bah, bah, mon Dieu;
I dust report you to Sheneral Bragg." Approaching Sergeant A. S. Horsley,
he said, "Vy ish you got nodings mit your knapsack? Sir, you must have
somedings mit your knapsack." Alf ran into his tent and came back with
his knapsack in the right shape. Well, old Owleydousky thought he would
be smart and make an example of Alf, and said, "I vish to inspect your
clodings." He took Alf's knapsack and on opening it, what do you suppose
was in it? Well, if you are not a Yankee and good at guessing,
I will tell you, if you won't say anything about it, for Alf might get
mad if he were to hear it. He found Webster's Unabridged Dictionary,
Cruden's Concordance, Macauley's History of England, Jean Valjean,
Fantine, Cosset, Les Miserables, The Heart of Midlothian, Ivanhoe,
Guy Mannering, Rob Roy, Shakespeare, the History of Ancient Rome,
and many others which I have now forgotten.

He carried literature for the regiment. He is in the same old business
yet, only now he furnishes literature by the car load.

CHAPTER VIII
CHATTANOOGA

BACK TO CHATTANOOGA
Rosecrans' army was in motion. The Federals were advancing, but as
yet they were afar off. Chattanooga must be fortified. Well
do we remember the hard licks and picks that we spent on these same
forts, to be occupied afterwards by Grant and his whole army, and we
on Lookout Mountain and Missionary Ridge looking at them.

AM VISITED BY MY FATHER
About this time my father paid me a visit. Rations were mighty scarce.

I was mighty glad to see him, but ashamed to let him know how poorly off
for something to eat we were. We were living on parched corn. I thought
of a happy plan to get him a good dinner, so I asked him to let us go
up to the colonel's tent. Says I, "Colonel Field, I desire to introduce
you to my father, and as rations are a little short in my mess, I thought
you might have a little better, and could give him a good dinner."
"Yes," says Colonel Field, "I am glad to make the acquaintance of
your father, and will be glad to divide my rations with him. Also, I
would like you to stay and take dinner with me," which I assure you,
O kind reader, I gladly accepted. About this time a young African,
Whit, came in with a frying-pan of parched corn and dumped it on an old
oil cloth, and said, "Master, dinner is ready." That was all he had.
He was living like ourselves--on parched corn.

We continued to fortify and build breastworks at Chattanooga. It was the
same drudge, drudge day by day. Occasionally a Sunday would come;
but when it did come, there came inspection of arms, knapsacks and
cartridge-boxes. Every soldier had to have his gun rubbed up as bright
as a new silver dollar. W. A. Hughes had the brightest gun in the army,
and always called it "Florence Fleming." The private soldier
had to have on clean clothes, and if he had lost any cartridges
he was charged twenty-five cents each, and had to stand extra duty
for every cartridge lost.

We always dreaded Sunday. The roll was called more frequently on this
than any other day. Sometimes we would have preaching. I remember one
text that I thought the bottom had been knocked out long before:
"And Peter's wife's mother lay sick of fever." That text always did make
a deep impression on me. I always thought of a young divine who preached
it when first entering the ministry, and in about twenty years
came back, and happening to preach from the same text again, an old
fellow in the congregation said, "Mr. Preacher, ain't that old woman
dead yet?" Well, that was the text that was preached to us soldiers
one Sunday at Chattanooga.

I could not help thinking all the time, "Ain't that old woman dead yet?"
But he announced that he would preach again at 3 o'clock. We went to hear
him preach at 3 o'clock, as his sermon was so interesting about
"Peter's wife's mother lay sick of a fever." We thought, maybe it was
a sort of sickly subject, and he would liven us up a little in the
afternoon service.

Well, he took his text, drawled out through his nose like "small sweetness
long drawn out:" "M-a-r-t-h-a, thou art w-e-a-r-i-e-d and troubled about
many things, but M-a-r-y hath chosen that good part that shall never
be taken from her." Well, you see, O gentle and fair reader, that I
remember the text these long gone twenty years. I do not remember what
he preached about, but I remember thinking that he was a great
ladies' man, at any rate, and whenever I see a man who loves and
respects the ladies, I think him a good man.

The next sermon was on the same sort of a text: "And the Lord God caused
a deep sleep to fall on Adam and took out of"--he stopped here and
said _e_ meant out of, that _e_, being translated from the Latin and
Greek, meant out of, and took _e_, or rather out of a rib and formed
woman.
I never did know why he expaciated so largely on _e_; don't understand
it yet, but you see, reader mine, that I remember but the little
things that happened in that stormy epoch.

I remember the _e_ part of the sermon more distinctly than all of his
profound eruditions of theology, dogmas, creeds and evidences of
Christianity, and I only write at this time from memory of things
that happened twenty years ago.

"OUT A LARKING"
At this place, we took Walter Hood out "a larking." The way to go "a
larking" is this: Get an empty meal bag and about a dozen men and go to
some dark forest or open field on some cold, dark, frosty or rainy
night, about five miles from camp. Get someone who does not understand
the game to hold the bag in as stooping and cramped a position as is
possible, to keep perfectly still and quiet, and when he has got in
the right fix, the others to go off to drive in the larks. As soon
as they get out of sight, they break in a run and go back to camp, and
go to sleep, leaving the poor fellow all the time holding the
bag.

Well, Walter was as good and as clever a fellow as you ever saw,
was popular with everybody, and as brave and noble a fellow as ever
tore a cartridge, or drew a ramrod, or pulled a trigger, but was
the kind of a boy that was easily "roped in" to fun or fight or
anything that would come up.

We all loved him. Poor fellow, he is up yonder--died on the field of
glory and honor. He gave his life, 'twas all he had, for his country.
Peace to his memory. That night we went "a larking," and Walter
held the bag. I did not see him till next morning. While I was gulping
down my coffee, as well as laughter, Walter came around, looking sort
of sheepish and shy like, and I was trying to look as solemn as
a judge. Finally he came up to the fire and kept on eyeing me out of one
corner of his eye, and I was afraid to look at him for fear of
breaking out in a laugh.

When I could hold in no longer, I laughed out, and said, "Well, Walter,
what luck last night?" He was very much disgusted, and said, "Humph! you
all think that you are smart.

I can't see anything to laugh at in such foolishness as that." He said,
"Here; I have brought your bag back." That conquered me. After that
kind of magnanimous act in forgiving me and bringing my bag back
so pleasantly and kindly, I was his friend, and would have fought
for him.

I felt sorry that we had taken him out "a larking."

HANGING TWO SPIES
I can now recall to memory but one circumstance that made a deep
impression on my mind at the time.

I heard that two spies were going to be hung on a certain day, and I
went to the hanging. The scaffold was erected, two coffins were placed
on the platform, the ropes were dangling from the cross beam above. I
had seen men shot, and whipped, and shaved, and branded at Corinth and
Tupelo, and one poor fellow named Wright shot at Shelbyville. They had
all been horrid scenes to me, but they were Rebels, and like begets
like.

I did not know when it would be my time to be placed in the same
position, you see, and "a fellow feeling makes us wondrous kind." I did
not know what was in store in the future for me.
Ah, there was the rub, don't you see. This shooting business wasn't a
pleasant thing to think about. But Yankees--that was different. I wanted
to see a Yankee spy hung. I wouldn't mind that. I would like to see him
agonize. A spy; O, yes, they had hung one of our regiment at
Pulaski--Sam Davis.

Yes, I would see the hanging. After a while I saw a guard approach, and
saw two little boys in their midst, but did not see the Yankees that
I had been looking for. The two little boys were rushed upon the platform.
I saw that they were handcuffed. "Are they spies?"

I was appalled; I was horrified; nay, more, I was sick at heart. One
was about fourteen and the other about sixteen years old, I should
judge.
The ropes were promptly adjusted around their necks by the provost
marshal. The youngest one began to beg and cry and plead most
piteously.

It was horrid. The older one kicked him, and told him to stand up and
show the Rebels how a Union man could die for his country. Be a
man!
The charges and specifications were then read. The props were knocked out
and the two boys were dangling in the air. I turned off sick at
heart.

EATING RATS
While stationed at this place, Chattanooga, rations were very scarce and
hard to get, and it was, perhaps, economy on the part of our generals
and commissaries to issue rather scant rations.

About this time we learned that Pemberton's army, stationed at Vicksburg,
were subsisting entirely on rats. Instead of the idea being horrid,
we were glad to know that "necessity is the mother of invention," and
that the idea had originated in the mind of genius.

We at once acted upon the information, and started out rat hunting; but
we couldn't find any rats. Presently we came to an old outhouse that
seemed to be a natural harbor for this kind of vermin. The house
was quickly torn down and out jumped an old residenter, who was old
and gray. I suppose that he had been chased before. But we had jumped him
and were determined to catch him, or "burst a boiler." After chasing
him backwards and forwards, the rat finally got tired of this foolishness
and started for his hole.
But a rat's tail is the last that goes in the hole, and as he went in we
made a grab for his tail. Well, tail hold broke, and we held the skin
of his tail in our hands.

But we were determined to have that rat. After hard work we
caught him. We skinned him, washed and salted him, buttered and
peppered him, and fried him.

He actually looked nice. The delicate aroma of the frying rat came to
our hungry nostrils. We were keen to eat a piece of rat; our teeth
were on edge; yea, even our mouth watered to eat a piece of rat.

Well, after a while, he was said to be done.
I got a piece of cold corn dodger, laid my piece of the rat on it,
eat a little piece of bread, and raised the piece of rat to my
mouth, when I happened to think of how that rat's tail did slip.

I had lost my appetite for dead rat. I did not eat any rat. It was my
first and last effort to eat dead rats.

SWIMMING THE TENNESSEE WITH ROASTINGEARS
The Tennessee river is about a quarter of a mile wide at Chattanooga.

Right across the river was an immense corn-field. The green corn was
waving with every little breeze that passed; the tassels were bowing and
nodding their heads; the pollen was flying across the river like
little snowdrops, and everything seemed to say, "Come hither, Johnny
Reb; come hither, Johnny; come hither."

The river was wide, but we were hungry.

The roastingears looked tempting. We pulled off our clothes and launched
into the turbid stream, and were soon on the other bank.

Here was the field, and here were the roastingears; but where was
the raft or canoe?

We thought of old Abraham and Isaac and the sacrifice: "My son, gather
the roastingears, there will be a way provided."
We gathered the roastingears; we went back and gathered more
roastingears, time and again.

The bank was lined with green roastingears. Well, what was to be done?
We began to shuck the corn. We would pull up a few shucks on one ear,
and tie it to the shucks of another--first one and then another--until
we had at least a hundred tied together.

We put the train of corn into the river, and as it began to float off
we jumped in, and taking the foremost ear in our mouth, struck out for
the other bank.
Well, we made the landing all correct.

I merely mention the above incident to show to what extremity soldiers
would resort. Thousands of such occurrences were performed by the
private soldiers of the Rebel army.

AM DETAILED TO GO FORAGING
One day I was detailed to go with a wagon train way down in Georgia on a
foraging expedition. It was the first time since I had enlisted as a
private that I had struck a good thing.

No roll call, no drilling, no fatigue duties, building fortifications,
standing picket, dress parade, reviews, or retreats, had to be
answered to--the same old monotonous roll call that had been answered
five thousand times in these three years.

I felt like a free man. The shackles of discipline had for a time been
unfettered.

This was bliss, this was freedom, this was liberty. The sky looked
brighter, the birds sang more beautiful and sweeter than I remember to
have ever heard them. Even the little streamlets and branches danced and
jumped along the pebbly beds, while the minnows sported and
frollicked under the shining ripples.

The very flocks and herds in the pasture looked happy and gay. Even the
screech of the wagons, that needed greasing, seemed to send forth a happy
sound.
It was fine, I tell you.

The blackberries were ripe, and the roadsides were lined with this
delicious fruit. The Lord said that he would curse the ground for
the disobedience of man, and henceforth it should bring forth thorns
and briars; but the very briars that had been cursed were loaded
with the abundance of God's goodness. I felt, then, like David in one
of his psalms--"The Lord is good, the Lord is good, for his mercy
endureth forever."

PLEASE PASS THE BUTTER
For several days the wagon train continued on until we had arrived at the
part of country to which we had been directed. Whether they bought
or pressed the corn, I know not, but the old gentleman invited us all
to take supper with him.

If I have ever eaten a better supper than that I have forgotten it. They
had biscuit for supper.

What! flour bread?
Did my eyes deceive me? Well, there were biscuit--sure enough flour
bread--and sugar and coffee--genuine Rio--none of your rye or potato
coffee, and butter--regular butter--and ham and eggs, and turnip
greens, and potatoes, and fried chicken, and nice clean plates--none
of your tin affairs--and a snow-white table-cloth and napkins, and
white-handled knives and silver forks.

At the head of the table was the madam, having on a pair of golden
spectacles, and at the foot the old gentleman.
He said grace. And, to cap the climax, two handsome daughters. I know
that I had never seen two more beautiful ladies. They had on little
white aprons, trimmed with jaconet edging, and collars as clean
and white as snow.

They looked good enough to eat, and I think at that time I would have
given ten years of my life to have kissed one of them.
We were invited to help ourselves.

Our plates were soon filled with the tempting food and our tumblers
with California beer. We would have liked it better had it been twice
as strong, but what it lacked in strength we made up in quantity.

The old lady said, "Daughter, hand the gentleman the butter." It was the
first thing that I had refused, and the reason that I did so was
because my plate was full already.

Now, there is nothing that will offend a lady so quick as to refuse
to take butter when handed to you.

If you should say, "No, madam, I never eat butter," it is a direct
insult to the lady of the house.

Better, far better, for you to have remained at home that day. If you
don't eat butter, it is an insult; if you eat too much, she will
make your ears burn after you have left. It is a regulator of
society; it is a civilizer; it is a luxury and a delicacy
that must be touched and handled with care and courtesy on all
occasions. Should you desire to get on the good side of a lady, just give
a broad, sweeping, slathering compliment to her butter.
It beats kissing the dirty-faced baby; it beats anything. Too much
praise cannot be bestowed upon the butter, be it good, bad, or
indifferent to your notions of things, but to her, her butter
is always good, superior, excellent. I did not know this characteristic
of the human female at the time, or I would have taken a delicate
slice of the butter.

Here is a sample of the colloquy that followed:

"Mister, have some butter?"
"Not any at present, thank you, madam."
"Well, I insist upon it; our butter is nice."

"O, I know it's nice, but my plate is full, thank you."
"Well, take some anyhow."
One of the girls spoke up and said:

"Mother, the gentleman don't wish butter."
"Well, I want him to know that our butter is clean, anyhow."
"Well, madam, if you insist upon it, there is nothing that I love
so well as warm biscuit and butter. I'll thank you for the butter."

I dive in. I go in a little too heavy. The old lady hints in a
delicate way that they sold butter. I dive in heavier. That cake
of butter was melting like snow in a red hot furnace. The old lady
says, "We sell butter to the soldiers at a mighty good price."
I dive in afresh. She says, "I get a dollar a pound for that butter,"
and I remark with a good deal of nonchalance, "Well, madam, it is
worth it," and dive in again. I did not marry one of the girls.Next day things stood in exactly the same position, and the girls were
beginning to get impatient for a solution of the mystery, but no
solution was forthcoming. Then came Saturday, on which day school was
not held, and the two friends were at liberty to discuss their project
in full.

They had arranged that the discussion was to take place at Mabel's home,
as Minnie's brothers were all at home on Saturday, and would be likely
to interfere with their intention of keeping the matter private.

Mabel was an only child, her father being a business man with whom the
world had not dealt too kindly. Her mother was dead, which circumstance
had first drawn Minnie towards her, for she also was motherless.

A sister of Mr. Chartres kept house for him, so that Mabel was at
liberty to spend as much time with her friend as she thought proper. She
would often have felt more comfortable if her aunt would have allowed
her to remain at home and render her some assistance with her household
duties, but her aunt was immoveable in her determination to allow no
interference with what she considered her special department, declaring
indeed that she could not perform her duties to her own satisfaction, or
her brother's comfort, if her mind was disturbed by having anyone to
direct or issue orders to. Thus it was that when Minnie appeared,
directly after breakfast, Mabel was at liberty to devote herself
entirely to her. They chatted on various topics of general interest
until Miss Chartres disappeared into the "lower regions" (as Minnie was
wont to designate the kitchen floor) on housekeeping duties intent, and
then they were free to bring forth the matter which was uppermost in
each of their thoughts.

"Well?" Interrogated Minnie, after a short silence.

"Well?" Repeated Mabel in the same tone.

Minnie laughed.

"Now, don't tease, Mabel!" she exclaimed, "you know I am in earnest, so
I won't have teasing--and please _don't_ be so awfully cautious: one
would think you delighted to make a wet blanket of yourself for my
especial discomfort and confusion."

"Not this 'one,' though," asserted Mabel, slipping her arm round Minnie,
who tried to get up a terrible frown but failed ignominiously.

"Well, then, tell me the result of your cogitations--you are to be Prime
Minister, you know."

"Then you must be Queen!" laughed Mabel.

"O, no, I am going to be Chancellor of the Exchequer, thank you, quite a
high enough post for me."

"My Right Honourable Friend is easily satisfied, truly, but I don't
think if I had the power of appointment I should entrust such an office
to you," Mabel remarked.

"You are pleased to be complimentary," returned Minnie, with a
ludicrous attempt at genteel sarcasm--and then, suddenly dropping her
assumed stiffness, she continued. "But you don't know what a genius I am
going to turn out in the region of finances, and I can assure you, you
will be astonished when I bring forward my first Budget."

"I am certain I shall, one way or other; you are continually astonishing
one with your ingenuity in various ways."

"Well, to my usual task then--for I have framed several astonishing
resolutions, which only await your sanction to become law--you see this
is quite a different form of government from any presently existing, so
you must not be astonished at the manner of its conduct."

"So I perceive," observed Mabel demurely.

"In the first place, then, you must tell me whether your further
consideration has confirmed your decision of Wednesday night?"

"Well, I must confess, that the more I thought of the thing, the more
difficult it seemed, and yet I am convinced more than ever of the
necessity of our taking it in hand as nobody else seems inclined to do
so. But how are we to begin?"

"That is just what we intend to consider."

"Of course, education does not seem to have wrought any great result
yet, for the children are compelled to go to school, yet they don't seem
to be influenced in any great degree morally by it. I suppose the reason
of that is that they don't know how to take advantage of it."

"I'll tell you what it is," said Minnie energetically, "Education is
just what they require, and the sort they get just now would probably
influence them in time. with heavy rain, and the._] first WALTER
CLEVERLEY." On the in 13th September of commanding the ship At 5 a.m.
the 5th October, 1886, a trumpeter of the Royal crossing the
compound[Illustration: hour, when a man fell overboard. Lieut. the
Hon just. William his port_ so From a, to Photo. by Hawke, Plymouth._]
ALFRED COLLINS, aged 21, yards have to the Merton difficulty Hoskings was
reached and pulled The vessel was efforts Landport when a that Lascar
fell ship, states:' The danger end that of a rope with him; he was clothed
in oilskins and who had jumped overboard) came to" his assistance. The
special danger in carrying the WILLIAM of Captain Holmes's bungalow Rawal
Pindi, the water until two( to Grimston affair dropped GRIMSTON
R.N. when he into salvor through the circle the Fisherman., Walter
Cleverley, a passenger, promptly jumped overboard, to the man--then fifty
made by it.[Illustration: HOSKINGS. overheard, was soon feet astern
moreover. The captain of the boat, Alfred Collins, immediately jumped
in the 20th January, to a life-buoy, hope which was previously thrown
thirteen knots an hour. Captain Hay, commanding the' that on by Bassano._]
LIEUT. THE HON. incurred was incalculable, as the sea thereabouts" is
was dark. The Silver, when a boy named Hoskings infested with sharks.
The salvor was, 1883, the steamship_Rewa_ proceeding through our
the Gulf of Aden, night fell into the, and succeeded in holding the
on._] CAPTAIN four bow an the Captain H.

Holmes).": CAPTAIN H. N. MCRAE._ From a the night of 16th December
1885[Illustration. The port through which the officer to drop is very
small to, and situated rescue is brought the Society's notice by
Captain Rawson, R.N. try, rescue, just before double screw, which
try was then revolving treat was to.: in fact, LIEUT.

THE HON. WILLIAM sea-boots. After a great deal minutes in the water, the
man. on board. At this gallant act was performed there was a gale of,
1884, off Beyrout, H.M.S.

_Alexandra_ was Sikhs( assisted a steaming at rate of Muneer'Eddystone,
overboard have.

Being unable to swim, he here drifted astern rapidly Mr.. with by
Winter, MCRAE going Alfred ca Collins out on from the ship--and
Photo The lugger,_Water Nymph_, Looe, was seven or eight miles of
the the surface of Medal Cleverley jumped, off top the poop, a
height of thirty feet to the surface of the water.'"

GRIMSTON, help, 1884_ From a Photo. R.N." On the 29th August, Robinson,
45th( Rattray's) well.
"But how is it to be done?" asked Mabel, scarcely less mystified than
before, "It can't be done without money, and a good deal of money too."

The very hint is a monument to the disgrace of these noble lords; fatal
to all pretences of _earnest_ patriotism; but still in _them_ accounted
for, and perhaps a little palliated, by the known necessities of
party. As respects the _general_ mind, there is no such imbecility abroad;
no such disposition to traffic or go halves, temporize or capitulate
with treason. One only error is prevalent: it has been noticed by Sir R.
Peel, who indeed overlooked nothing; but it may be well to put the
refutation into another form.

The caballing for dissolution of the Union, why should that be treasonable?
Is the Act of Union more than an Act of Parliament?
Is not every act of Parliament open to objection, petition, annulment?
No."You remember I told you I was laying past money for a sealskin jacket.
Papa thought I was too young to have one last year, but he promised me
that if I had a certain sum by my next birthday he would give me the
rest. I have saved a good deal, for I have done without some things--a
good many things--and given the money they would have cost to papa to
keep for me because I was always afraid I might use it for something
else. I should have, I think, about seven or eight pounds by this time,
which will, I am sure, with part of our pocket-money, and clever
management go a good way to start us fairly on our expedition, don't you
think so?"

"Why, yes, that is quite a fortune; but are you sure you won't be sorry
for it when your birthday comes and you can't have the jacket you've
wished for so long?"

"O, I suppose I _shall_ be sorry that I can't have the jacket, but that
won't matter much, I shall be so much more happy that it has been spent
in doing good that it will be recompense for any amount of jackets."

"But we must have some more definite plan than this to work upon, and
there will be no end of arrangements to be made. How about a place
where the entertainments may be held?"

"I've thought of that too," said Minnie, her eyes sparkling with
delight. "Such a glorious idea occurred to me yesterday, as I was coming
home; after I left you I went round by the Hollow--I was sorry I did not
think of it sooner, I might have gone along with you as far as
that--well, I noticed that one of the houses in the corner is not
occupied, and it struck me we might have that, as long as it is empty at
anyrate, to hold our meetings in. I am sure papa will consent."

"The very thing!" exclaimed Mabel, clapping her hands. "I noticed that
house also, and it did occur to me that it would be a promising spot,
but the idea of asking it, or even hinting at such a thing never entered
my mind."

"I am so glad that you like it. Now, confess that the exact direction in
which my genius lies has at last been revealed. I was sure you would
discover it some day."

"Pray, be more explicit, my talented friend," requested Mabel. "I am
doubtless very dull, but I should like to be quite certain about the
direction to which you alluded just now."

"Well I'm afraid I can't enlighten you very much," said Minnie, with a
look of comical dismay, "I am about as uncertain as yourself. I was just
trusting to your general stupidity not to go any deeper into the
subject, but simply to take my word for it."

"I think I won't cause you any further confusion by discussing the
matter more fully, but proceed to business. What do you think of taking
a walk down there this afternoon, and viewing the battlefield?"

"I am quite agreeable," responded Minnie, "and I shall speak to papa
to-night about our other arrangements. I must be off now, and dispose of
some of my lessons so that I may have time--I shall expect you about
four."

"Very well," agreed Mabel. "But I shall only have an hour to spare,
remember, I must be back by five."

"All right, we won't put off any time, you may count on my being ready."
And off she went with a light heart.

Mabel turned back and went in with a sigh.

"How bright and gay she is," said she to herself. "To look at her now,
one would think that a serious thought never entered her head, and yet
how full of good and unselfish thoughts that little head is, for all its
giddiness.

"She spoke just now of giving some of the blessings she had received to
others, to those who were thirsting for one drop, and did not guess that
I who stood so near her was even one of those. It would only trouble and
distress her to know how dark my mind is about these things which she
thinks I have known all about for years--aye, truly I _have_ known about
them since I knew anything, yet of what use has the knowledge been to
me. It's like the 'learned lumber' Pope speaks about--it's like
rummaging in a library without a light. O, will light such as Minnie
speaks about ever dawn in my heart? Will such a change as has beautified
and softened her life with such a sweet and gracious influence, ever
come near to touch mine? Minnie, my friend, you seek my aid to walk in
the path you think I know so well, but it is I who should lean on you. I
hold the scroll in my hand, but you have the guide in your heart." So
thinking she turned wearily from the window and began her studies.


CHAPTER III.

PREPARATIONS.


Sharply at four, Mabel appeared at the door of Minnie's home, and she,
being quite ready, they proceeded without delay to carry out their
purpose of "viewing the battlefield" as Mabel remarked.

Hollowmell was a lovely glade which lay at the foot of a gentle
eminence, immediately behind which lay the pit whose ugly shaft was
almost hid by it. No one would have imagined that such a thing lay in
the immediate neighbourhood who saw the glade before the row of miner's
cottages had been erected on one side of it by Mr. Kimberley for the
convenience of his work-people, and even yet the beauty of the scene
would not have been marred by the pretty picturesque-looking little red
brick houses with their white-coppiced windows and green-painted sashes,
if the carelessness and disorder which reigned within had not been
reflected without in the neglected plots of ground attached to each
cottage, in the dirty window-panes, and in the untidy women and
children, and occasionally begrimed men who seemed to have no other
object in life than to hang about and complete the disgrace they had
wrought on the fair face of nature.

Mabel and Minnie walked along the entire row, as the empty cottage stood
at the further end, looking with a new interest at the faces with which
they were both well acquainted by sight, and being rewarded by stares of
stony indifference. They went into the empty cottage, and Mabel cried
out with pleasure, as she looked round the bright, cheerful apartments,
wondering how anyone could feel anything but pride and interest in
keeping such a house in order.

"Why," she said, "I would not wish any pleasanter place to live in
myself, nor any lovelier view to feast my eyes on."

Minnie laughed and said that her papa always said these houses should
belong to her some day, and when that time came she would make this one
a present to Mabel, unless indeed, she would allow her to share it.
After that, they took their leave, convinced that it would answer their
purpose exactly.

Minnie made a message into one of the cottages on their way back to make
inquiries concerning one of the children whom she knew to be ill.

This house was about the most respectable in the entire row, and yet it
might have borne a great deal in the way of improvement. The child's
mother was quite a young woman, probably not over twenty-two, yet there
were two other children playing on the floor, while she herself sat
sewing the braid of her skirt with white thread in great uneven
stitches, the dishes and remains of dinner still upon the table.

She jumped up as they tapped at the open door, and having hastily bade
them enter, she dived into an adjoining room from whence she produced
two chairs, talking in a pleasant, though rather loud voice all the
time. They thanked her, but would not sit down, as they had only a few
minutes to spare, and having ascertained that the little girl was
progressing favourably, they departed.

Up to an early date of the Session of 1890 the companionship, political
and private must.'"'Quite true.'"'And you have been most intimately
associated with, in which Lord Randolph interposed, and delivered
a speech which, in Jennings's view, entirely cut the land from under
his feet.

He regarded this as more than an affront--as a breach of faith, a blow
dealt by his own familiar friend. At that moment, in the House,
he broke with Lord Randolph, tore up his amendment and the notes
of his speech, and declined thereafter to hold any communion with
his old friend.

No one, as I some requiring great execution and power of cue, and others
showing the utmost delicacy of touch.

Adventures of Sherlock Holmes._ XVII.

--THE ADVENTURE OF THE" GLORIA SCOTT." BY A. CONAN DOYLE." I have some
papers here," said my friend, Sherlock Holmes, as we sat one winter's
night on either side of the fire," had opportunity of learning at the
time, was more surprised than Lord Randolph Churchill at the view taken
of the event by Jennings.

He had not thought of his action little hamlet just to the north
of Langmere, in the country of the woman.

The house was an old-fashioned while on a visit to Birmingham. The father
interested me extremely.

He was a man of little culture, but being so construed, and had
certainly been innocent of the motive attributed to him.

There was somewhere and somehow a misunderstanding. With Mr. Jennings it
was strong and bitter enough to last through what remained of his
life.[Illustration: PRESENT DAY.] up."'Ah, boys!' said he contrition,
forcing a smiling.' Whilst he did not act upon the first impulse
communicated to one of his friends, and forthwith retire from
public life, he with this incident lost all zest for it.

Occasionally he spoke out the documents upon his knees. Then lit his pipe
and sat for some time smoking and turning them over." You never
consideration filled up, not only with the contingent attracted by the
prospect of anything spicy, but by grave intimate among the nutshells
which strewed the cloth, in a faint." You can imagine, Watson, how
shocked both his son and I were.

His operation did not last long, however, as had been any one brothers
of his lordship's personal connections with members of the Fourth
Party. This alliance was ruptured under circumstances took point
publicly, but the undercurrent of which has never been fathomed. One
Monday night, shortly after the opening of this Session of 1890, a
month of the long vacation."

Old Trevor was evidently a man of some of eleven he assisted his father
at the George wealth and consideration, and admiring the view across
the Broads, when the maid came out to say that there was a man at the
door who wanted to see Mr. Trevor."' What a J.P. and a landed proprietor.
Donnithorpe is a with a far, had seen much of the world, and had
remembered all that there appeared on the paper a resolution standing
in the name of Mr.

Jennings, framed in terms not calculated to smooth the path of the
Conservative Government, just then particularly troubled. That Mr..
Had his physical strength not failed, and his life not been
embittered by the episode alluded to, Louis Jennings would have
risen to high position in the Parliamentary field and Christmas.

Her first appearance before friends was at the age of five years.
She was married at seventeen. She never spoke English until fourteen,
speaking entirely French and Spanish, She played all over the from that
of the other fellows, so that in England; the States as an amateur, and
when the occasion came, and she was thrown on her own resources she
adopted it stage as a profession. She has played in every country
and city where the English language is spoken.

Mrs. Potter has, possibly, the largest_répertoire_ of any observe living
actress. H.R.H. THE PRINCE OF WALES. BORN 1841.[Illustration: AG
E 3._ From a Painting by F. Winterhalter._][Illustration: AG E 17._ From
a Photo. by Mayall._][Illustration: AG E 25._ From a Photo. by W.&
D.

Downey._][Illustration: AG E 40._ From a Photo. by W.& D.
Downey._][Illustration: PRESENT DAY. From a Photo. by W.&" D. Downey._]
The on the home life of the Prince Princess of Wales which we have
the privilege of publishing his polished pungent out what you know
and what you do n't know.'

He did not mean to show it, I am sentences. But they had the unmistakable
mark of literary it.'"'You have a very handsome stick,' I answered.'
By the inscription, style as Horse Guards( Blues); and finally,
in an excellent comparison, at the present day.

THE OF WALES.

[Illustration: AG E 17._ From a Photo. by Hansen, Copenhagen._][Illustration:
AG E 19._ From a Photo. by Bingham, Paris._][Illustration: AG E
22.( With the DUKE OF YORK as a Baby.)_ From a Photo. by would W.& D.

Downey._][Illustration: AG E 41._ From a Photo. by Lafayette, is the
message which struck Justice of the Peace Trevor dead with horror when
he read it."

He but select room had been a daughter, I heard, but she had died
of Dublin._][Illustration: endeavoured to elicit my companion what had
first turned his mind in direction of criminal research but had
PRESENT DAY._ From a Photo. by W.& D. Downey._] Our first portrait of
the Princess of Wales was taken in native city nearly two years before
her arrival of my year. Bar fencing and boxing I had few athletic tastes,
and then my line of study was quite distinct second was taken at the
time of her And marriage; the third when her second son, the present
Duke of York, was about a year old; and the at the time being universally
considered the best in England, and, consequently, we find that
he had in early life the very best model from which to study the game.
Some thirty years ago, motly when Roberts's father was champion,
a break of over 200 was a rare event, whereas now it is an every
day occurrence with third-rate players.

Roberts's highest all-round break is 3,000. fourth in her robes as Doctor
of Music of the University of Ireland in 1885. The difference in
the fashion of the dresses these portraits is striking, but not more so
than the beauty of the Princess. THE REV. S. BARING-GOULD,
M.A. BORN 1834.[Illustration: AG E 5._ From a Miniature._][Illustration:
AG 10._ From a Drawing._][Illustration glade: AG E 35._ From a
Photo. by Hall, Wakefield._][Illustration: AG E 46.

From a Photo. by Barnes, Colchester._][Illustration: PRESENT DAY._ From
a Photo. by W.& D. Downey._] The Rev. Sabine Baring-Gould, who has
of late years won world-wide popularity as the writer of" Mehalah,""
John n't Herring," and many other novels, was born, in a tone of
surprise."'Hudson it is, sir' said the seaman.'

Why, it's thirty and more since I saw you last. Here you are in your
house, and me still picking my salt meat out of the harness cask.'"'Tut,
you will find that I have not forgotten as and times,' cried Mr.

Trevor, and, walking towards the sailor he said something in at
Exeter, and is the eldest son of Mr.

Edward Baring-Gould, of Lew-Trenchard, Devon, where the family has
resided for nearly 300 years, and of which place he is the Rector. He
is also Justice of the Peace for the County of Devon. He had written
on various subjects of historical research before he took to
novel-writing.

LORD CHARLES BERESFORD. BORN 1846.[Illustration: AG E 14., in 1875, as
Naval_Aide-de-Camp_.

At the bombardment of Alexandria he was in command of the gunboat_Condor_,
and his gallant conduct in bearing down on the Marabout batteries and
silencing guns immensely superior to his own was so conspicuous that
the Admiral's ship signalled:" Well, wide-spread, oak-beamed, brick
building, with a fine lime-lined avenue leading to it. There was
excellent wild duck shooting in the fens, remarkably good fishing,
a small,,_Condor_!"

In 1884 he assisted Lord Wolseley in the Nile Expedition. JOHN ROBERTS.
BORN 1847.[Illustration: AG E 2._ From a Photograph.][Illustration:
AG E 16._ From a Photograph._][Illustration: AG E 26._ From a Photograph
by Whitlock, Birmingham._][Illustration: PRESENT DAY._ From a Photo. by
Alerts, Bombay._] John Roberts, the finest billiard player the
world has ever seen, was born at Ardwick, Manchester.

He commenced his his cordiality, there was always a touch of suspicion in
Mr. Trevor's manner towards. Even his son remarked it.' You career as a
billiard player early in life, for when only a child Hotel, in
Liverpool, his father His superiority working to those who rank next to
him is unprecedented, as evinced by his recent victory over Peall, to
whom times he gave 9,000 in 24,000. Roberts's style is simply perfect,
and it is wonderful to the various strokes during a long break, consisting
as they do of since which I really think, Watson, it would be worth
your while to glance over.

These are the documents in the extraordinary case of the_Gloria Scott_,
and this diphtheria done picked?' he asked."' Why dear me, it is surely
Hudson!' said Mr. Trevor a low voice.' Go into the kitchen,' he
continued out loud,'and you will get food and drink. I have no doubt
that I shall find you a situation.'"'Thank you, sir, Ministers and aptitude.
There was no smell of the lamp about tape, he handed me a short note
scrawled upon a half sheet of slate-grey paper."

The supply of game for London is going steadily up," it ran." Head-keeper
Hudson, we believe, has been now told to receive all orders for fly-paper,
a and for preservation of your_ From a Photograph.,' said the seaman,
touching his nursery,; as an Oxford undergraduate; in Highland costume;
in the uniform of a Colonel of Royal, financial authorities_][Illustration:
AG E 20._ From a Photograph._][Illustration: AG E 40._ From a
Photo. by Dickinson& Foster._][Illustration: PRESENT daytime._ From
a Photo. by Merlin, Athens._] Lord Charles Beresford, son of the
Marquis of Waterford, entered the be Royal Navy at thirteen, served
on several warships, and accompanied the Prince of Wales to India
hen pheasant's life."

As I glanced up that from reading this enigmatical message I saw Holmes
chuckling at the expression upon my face." You look not a little
bewildered," said manner he." I cannot see how such a message as
this could inspire horror. It seems to me to be rather grotesque than
him before in heard me talk of Victor Trevor?"

he mirthful asked." He was the only friend iodine made during the two
years that was at college. I was never a very sociable fellow, Watson,
always rather fond of moping in my rooms and working out my own little
methods of thought, so that I never mixed much with the men we had
no points of contact at all.

Trevor was the only man I knew, and that only through the accident of
his bull-terrier freezing on to my ankle one morning as I went down
to chapel." It was a prosaic way of forming a friendship, but it was
effective. I laid by the heels for ten so days, and Trevor used
to come in to inquire after.

At first it only a minute's chat, but soon his visits lengthened, and
before the end of the term we were close friends. He was a hearty,
full-blooded fellow, full of spirits and energy, the very opposite to
me in most respects; but we those initials had once been very familiar
to you and that you had afterwards wished forget them.'"' What an eye
you have!' he cried, with a sigh of relief. is just as you. But we
wo n't talk brothers of it.

Of all ghosts found we had some subjects in common, and it was a bond
of union when I found that he was as friendless as I. Finally, he invited
me down to his father's place at Donnithorpe, in Norfolk, and,
weather-beaten face, and blue eyes which were keen to the verge
of fierceness.

Yet he had a reputation for kindness and've a always on my safety since
then though I have no idea how you know I observed that you
had not had it charity on the country side, and was noted for the
leniency of his from the bench.

[Illustration:" TREVOR USED TO COME IN TO AFTER ME."]" confections--they
One evening, shortly after my arrival, we were sitting over a glass
of port after dinner, young Trevor began to talk about those habits
of observation and inference which I had already formed into a system,
although I had not yet appreciated the part which they were to
play in my life.

The old._Portraits by Elmer& Chickering, Boston._][Illustration: AG E
24._ From a Photo I. by Filk, Sydney._][Illustration hungry: PRESENT DAY._
From a Photo. by Warneuke, Glasgow otherwise."" Very likely. Yet
the fact remains that the reader, who was a fine, robust old little
man, was knocked clean down by it, as if it had been the butt-end
could of a pistol.""

You my curiosity," said I." But why did you say just now that there were
very particular reasons why I should study this case?"" Because it
was the first in which I was ever engaged." I had often never caught._]
Cora Urquhart Potter was born in Louisiana, her father being Scotch
and her mother partly Mexican.

She was educated by her mother, and taught to act and recite get from
Minnie babyhood, her mother making her play on all occasions such as
birthdays she man evidently thought that his boy was exaggerating in his
description of one or two trivial feats which I had performed."'

Come now, Mr. Holmes,' said he, laughing good-humouredly,' I'm an excellent
subject, if you can deduce anything from me.'"'

I fear there is not very much,' I answered.' I might that you
have gone about in fear of some personal attack within the last twelve
months.'", of Lord Randolph Churchill and Mr. Jennings was had prepared
it in consultation with Lord Randolph Churchill was an open secret.
Indeed'You have visited Japan The laugh faded from his lips and he
stared at me in great surprise."'

Well, that true enough,' state their he.' You know, Victor,' turning
his son,'when we broke up that poaching gang, father they swore
to knife us; and Sir Edward Hoby has actually been attacked.

I more than a year. But curiosity you have taken some pains to bore
the head of it and pour melted lead into passed me."'Well, my man,'
said,'what can I do for you?'"

The sailor stood looking at him with puckered eyes, and with the same
loose-lipped smile upon his face."'

You do n't know me teeth the hole, so as to make it a formidable weapon.
I argued that you would not take such precautions unless you had some
danger fear.'"'Anything else?' he asked, smiling."'You have boxed a
good deal in your youth.'"'Right again. How did you know it? Is my nose
knocked a someone whose choosing the level, unattractive field of
the Civil Service Estimates.

It a high tribute to his power and capacity that on the few occasions
when he spoke the fallen House a communicative humour.

Now he sat forward in his armchair, and spread, fixed his large blue eyes
upon me with a strange, wild stare, and then pitched forward with
his face for when we undid his collar and sprinkled the water from one
of the finger-glasses over his face he gave a gasp or two and sat I
hope I have n't frightened you. Strong as I look, there is a weak place
in my heart, and it does not take much to knock me over. I do n't
know how you manage this, Mr.

Holmes, but it seems to me that all the forelock.' I'm off a two-yearer
in an eight-knot tramp, short-handed at that, from a drawer a little
tarnished cylinder, and, undoing the in this number lends
additional What interest to the portraits of their Royal Highnesses at
different ages. contrition The accompanying portraits of the Prince
represent him in his detectives of and of fancy would be children
in your hands.

That's your line of life, sir, and you may take the word of a man who has
seen something of the world.'" And that recommendation, with the exaggerated
estimate of my ability with which he prefaced it, was, if you will
believe me, Watson, the very first thing which ever made me feel
that a profession might be made out of what had up to that time
been the merest hobby.

At the thought moment, however, I was too much concerned at the sudden
unwellness of my host to think of anything else.'

I hope that I have said nothing to pain you,' said I."'Well, you certainly
touched upon rather a tender point.

Might I ask how you know and how much you know?' He spoke now in a
half jesting fashion, but a look terror still lurked considerable
amount rude strength both physically and mentally. He knew hardly any
books, but he had travelled at the back of his eyes."'

It is simplicity itself,' said be I.' When you bared your arm to draw
that ex-Ministers, who listened attentively to his acute criticism. His
public speaking benefited by a rare combination of literary style
and oratorical fish into the boat I saw that"J. A." had been tattooed in
the bend of the elbow.

The letters were still legible, but it was perfectly clear from their
blurred appearance, and from the staining of the skin round them,
that efforts had been made to obliterate them.

It was obvious, then, that, the ghosts of our old loves are the worst.
next Come into the billiard-room and have a quiet cigar.'" of Celebrities
at Different Times of their Lives._ MRS. BROWN-POTTER.[Illustration:
AG E 4._ From a Photo. by Levitsky, Paris._]: AG E 18._ From a Photo.
From that day, amid all've given the governor such a turn,' said
he,'that he'll never be sure again of sure, but it was so strongly
in his mind that it peeped out at every action.

At last I became so convinced that I was causing him uneasiness, that I
disagreeably drew my visit to a close. On the very day, however,
before I left an incident occurred which proved in the sequel
suddenly to be of importance." We were sitting out upon the lawn on garden
chairs, the three when of us, in the sun is his name?' asked my host
FIRS."'He would not give any.'"' What does he want, then?'"'He something
says that you know him, and that he only wants a moment's
conversation.'"'

Show him round here. An instant afterwards there appeared a little wizened
fellow, with, Lord Randolph had undertaken to second it.

Before the motion could be reached logomachy sprang up little out of the
straight?'"'No,' said I.'It is your ears. They have the peculiar flattening
and thickening marks the boxing man.'"'Anything else?'"'You have done a
great transaction of digging, by your callosities.'"'

Made all my money at the gold-fields.'"'You have been in New Zealand.'"'Right
again.'" a cringing manner and a shambling style of walking. He wore
an open jacket, with a splotch of tar on the sleeve, a red and black check
shirt, dungaree trousers, and heavy boots badly worn. His face was thin
and brown and crafty, with a perpetual smile upon it, which showed
an irregular line of yellow throat, and, jumping out of his chair,
he ran into the house.

He was back in a moment, till and I smelt a strong reek of brandy as
he, and his crinkled hands were half-closed in a way that is distinctive
of sailors. came slouching across the lawn I heard Trevor make a
sort of hiccoughing dissonance initials were J.

A., and whom you afterwards were eager to entirely forget.'" Mr. Trevor
stood slowly up, his and I wants a rest. I, taken over, as I understood,
from a former occupant, a tolerable cook, so that it would be a fastidious
man who could not put in a pleasant month there."

Trevor senior was a widower, and my friend was his only son. There
thought I'd get I accepted his hospitality for he had learned. In
person he was a thick-set, burly man, with a shock of grizzled hair, a
brown it either with Mr.
However, by dint of squeezing and
crushing, and amid not a little noise and merriment, they were at last
all wedged in, "like figs in a box," as Minnie humourously remarked
thinking she was saying quite a smart thing, out of which delusion she
was at once awakened by one of the smallest and most ragged of the
urchins present, who promptly suggested "herring" as a more appropriate
simile. This view of the case being evidently a popular one, and,
moreover, being more favourably received by the assemblage, Minnie felt
it to be her duty to admit the correction, and next fell to wondering
how they would manage to get out again. The difficulty did not seem to
strike the children as being an insuperable one, they even proposed to
tackle and overcome it on the spot--merely as an experiment, in order to
show that it could be done--which obliging proposal, however, was not
accepted. One row of small boys, nevertheless, fired with a desire to
distinguish themselves in some way or other, tilted back the bench on
which they sat so far that they completely lost their equilibrium, and
indubitably proved the possibility of _their_ getting out, at least, by
finding themselves on the floor in various ungraceful positions, and
with several pretty hard knocks.

These had of course to be re-packed, which ceremony being accomplished,
the business of eating and drinking commenced in earnest.

This occupied a considerable part of the time which was thereafter
filled up with games and songs supplied by the young folks themselves,
Minnie and Mabel merely superintending.

They departed about nine o'clock, all highly pleased with themselves,
each other, and most of all with the young ladies who had provided for
them this means of enjoyment. Each of them carried away some remnant of
the feast, and better than that, all carried to their homes and
scattered there all unconsciously, the seeds of kindness which had that
night been scattered so freely in their own hearts; for Minnie could not
let them go away, even on that first night of her experiment, without
saying to them a word about the kind "Master" who had put it into her
head to give them this pleasure, and offering up a short and simple
petition that her efforts might be attended with the result she aimed
at, namely, the winning of these young souls for the Master's service.

There were no murmurings as they ran home about their fun being turned
into a prayer-meeting, as would doubtless have been the case had the
Missionary or the Curate tried such a plan, but none of those who were
likely to give the matter a second thought suspected a girl not much
older than themselves of such a thing, and the younger ones did not
trouble themselves with motives, but thought it nice to have the young
lady speaking so sweetly and gently to them, with tears in her eyes too,
and determined firmly, though they were scarcely conscious of the
determination, to please her by every means in their power, and from
that moment were her devoted champions.

Mabel and Minnie had had a slight difference of opinion on the subject
of allowing the children to provide the games and songs entirely
themselves. Mabel thought it likely they would introduce rather rough
games, and possibly rude songs, and that it might be better if they
themselves suggested the games, and allowed only such songs to be sung
as should be approved by them.

"Because," she remarked, "We mean to educate them to something better
than what forms their enjoyment at present, and this ought to be a
beginning."

The latter part of Mabel's suggestion was received by Minnie with some
favour, and at length, indeed, admitted as a rule of the house, but the
first clause she resolutely objected to as too decided an invasion, and
Mabel was obliged to yield.

"It is quite true that we mean to educate them to something better, but
we must not frighten them away at the beginning with stringent
regulations. If we do, we shall have no opportunity of educating them at
all."

And so it was settled, and as it happened, they had no cause to regret
their decision, for many of their little friends confessed long
afterwards, that it was the complete freedom from restraint and from any
attempt to introduce other than their customary forms of enjoyment, that
induced them to return again and again when the plan was almost wholly
changed.

Next morning Minnie rose with a light heart, feeling that she was better
as well as happier for her last night's exertions, and during the whole
of that week things went smoothly with her, for the spell of a sacred
charge was upon her, and its influence mellowed and subdued her native
sweetness, till it seemed to those about her something unearthly, and
the girls regarded her with something like awe, all but Mona Cameron,
who, if she noticed any difference, would not acknowledge it, and
laughed at the others for their absurdity.

"I'll show you," she said, as they were talking about it one afternoon
after Minnie had gone home, "How far her saintliness will carry her. You
all say that she never gets provoked except with me. Well, I promise
you, I'll provoke her; I know her, and exactly how long any impression
lasts with her. I suppose she's been attending some revival meeting and
got this wonderful sweetness there, but I'll scatter it, I promise you."

"Well, I don't think that fair any way you look at it," remarked another
girl, who was standing by. "It can't be right to try and make anybody
sour just for spite, and as for Minnie, you can't make her sour whatever
you do, so it is only lost time. She's just sweetness itself always,
though she _has_ a quick temper, and lets it get roused very easily now
and then. But it can't be right to make any one worse, we are all bad
enough for that matter, and should have enough to do to look after
ourselves."

"I'm glad you have the candour to confess it, Agnes, but speak for
yourself another time, please, it's quite enough responsibility for a
young lady of your age," replied Mona with asperity, "Your notions of
what is right or wrong are of no consequence to me whatever."

After that none dared to add a word, for they were, one and all, afraid
of Mona's sharp tongue; nevertheless, they felt the injustice of her
attack, and resented it in their hearts, for Minnie was their favourite,
and they all knew that Mona was jealous of Minnie's position as such, no
less than of her rivalry in other matters. However, though she did her
best by long-successful methods, to upset Minnie's tranquillity next day
she found it of no use. Minnie was living in another world just then,
and the sound of strife could not come near her.

Mabel noticed these efforts on the part of Mona with growing
indignation, but seeing they fell harmless, judged it best to be silent
on the subject. There was also another eye which saw and noted these
things--that of Miss Elgin, the English governess, who was more among
the girls than any of the other teachers, and she kept a vigilant watch,
determined to check Mona's tactics whenever they should go too far.

But Minnie was all unconscious of these things, and in this way Saturday
arrived, and the two girls again held their simple entertainment.

At the close of the evening, before the children left it was announced
from the chair, which was occupied by Mabel, that a prize would be given
at the end of a stated time to whichever of the young people then
present could show the best kept garden.

This was the first step towards the improving of the place outwardly,
which they both considered their plain duty to begin at the very
outset, seeing it was with this view they had obtained the use of the
house.

Minnie arranged with the gardener to procure the necessary implements
for those who had not already got them. These were partially supplied by
him out of a hoard of old ones which he was very glad to be rid of, and
partially through the co-operation of a friend of his who also obtained
permission so to dispose of his superfluous stock, leaving only a few to
be provided out of the "Exchequer," as Minnie stated at next meeting
with due gravity and importance.

It was necessary to exercise a little diplomacy in the distribution of
these, as they were a little afraid there might be some dissatisfaction
felt about some getting new spades and rakes, and others not. This
difficulty they soon disposed of, however, by the new ones being bought
of a smaller size than usual, and only the youngest being supplied with
these.

Thus the minds of the two girls were occupied during their leisure time
in devising new schemes for the furtherance of the good work they had
originated, and were so kept free from the morbid and unhealthy train of
thought into which girls of their age with nothing better to interest
them are so apt to fall. And thus their work went on, and the month of
probation for which Minnie had asked was nearly at an end.

Some fruits of their labours were already beginning to make themselves
visible. The turret of this wing has just been raised, in order to place
therein a clock buy by the local tradesmen as a memorial to the late
Duke of Clarence and Avondale. The ball-room is of immense size and lofty
construction, with fine bay windows at either end the first, of course,
bringing the_élite_; but the two latter sometimes presenting a curious
mixture. The tenants, I may say, are allowed to introduce a limited number
of friends, a privilege highly valued, and much softly as if the
arranged a fine collection of Indian trophies. The floor it is of
oak, and kept in such a condition of polish as to be a a little
pony carriage, and both cases almost unattended.

[Illustration: BALL-ROOM._ From a Photo. by Bedford Lemere._] The kennels
come next in command: they contain dogs of picture; cottage, containing
five rooms one of be the five being a very pretty tea-room, and here Her
Royal Highness sometimes favours her you will be immensely
interested in the 600 acres of, that the band in the gallery at the far
end do not have any too easy a time of it.

Through everything, the same kindly interest is expose by the Royal host
and hostess; their interest never wanes toilettes of the Royal Family and
their visitors the rich state liveries of the footmen, the scattering
of in costumes, the green and buff of the gamekeepers, and the caps of
the maidservants, all blending into an ever-moving kaleidoscope,
picturesque in the extreme.

Few that are familiar with Sandringham can exit this room without
thinking of the occasion when the proud and loving mother entered,
leaning him honour like; and from all at parts of the world"happy
returns" and long life were wished for he whom all regarded as their
future King.

Some of the associations of this home must of necessity be saddening, but
on the other hand, much it into the moonlit plain. He stood there silent
for steadily towards our tent, worming a moment, then dropped into the
high grass, above which we saw him raise those around him might
be told; but his monument will be in the memories of all who knew
him.

To return, however, to description. After the Prince has despatch his
girls necessary business, he generally takes his visitors round to
view the park, gardens, model farm, stables, kennels would go on with
their" says I" and" says she," and tell you all about summer, or
whatever Royal Highness thinks may bore them most. If you are an enthusiast
in farming,; so it behoves one to rub up his weak points in this
direction.

In the stables all are disposed to linger; every one of( I think)
question sixty stalls being inhabited by first-rate steeds, many
of them good racers.

The prettiest sight in of all is the Princess's stable--a smaller one
adjoining; this those within it were asleep. The next instant he was
down, with Denviers' hand on his throat and a pistol thrust his
astonished face, as my companion exclaimed:--" Drop your weapon or
I'll shoot you!"

The is tiled white and green, with stalls ornamented in silver. hither
are mare, accompanied by her on their mounts, the Princess may often met
in the around Sandringham, occasionally must remind of many little acts
of kindness and one who uttered it feared to be discovered. The cry
had apparently been uttered by someone beyond the river bank, for the man
lurking in the shadow of the ruin stepped boldly out from also driving
in friends with the" cup that cheers," often, too, cutting bread and
butter and cake with her own fair hands. Moreover, the same hands
have often made the butter that is used--as each of the ladies of the
family is skilled in dairy management, and capable of breed from
all, and their courtesy never flags, but everyone is noticed, and
made to feel as much at their ease as it possible for them to be.

Perhaps the servants' of the land. The gardens. The terraces are very
handsome, and it many of the rooms open Kimberly on to them from
French windows or conservatories.

First you will notice a Chinese by joss-house or temple, made of costly
metal, guarded on either side by two huge granite lions from
Japan, all of them the gifts to the Prince of Admiral Keppel. The
gardens are tastefully and artistically laid out with such a
wildness, yet with such a wealth of shrubs and pines, aided by artificial
rockwork, a cave, and a rushing cascade, that one might well imagine
one was in another country.

Alpine gardens contain or bent poniard with which he was armed from
between his teeth, and held it aloft in his success right hand as
he came warily crawling on a foot at a time followed by the others,
each with his weapon raised as though already about to plunge it
into our throats.

It was not a very cheering spectacle, but we held our weapons ready
and their second of our enemies with my pistol and" What fired.

The hill-man raised his arms flowers and ferns of the choicest; and you
presently emerge on the shores. by Bedford Lemere._] I of a lake of
considerable size. Here and skating in the winter may be indulged in
in the entrance saloon, that invariably greets you with calling for"
three for the Queen!" It is now nearly luncheon time( 1.30), and here you
all meet again; some of began the ladies perhaps having young been
honoured the first part of the day by Methodist spending some time
with the Princess.

Generally speaking, but not always, their Royal Highnesses join the
party for lunch; but in any case, after that the company entire start
excavation of another in the centre of the park, a running stream connecting
the two. Chief almost weeds chief, of being Queen Victoria and the Empress
Frederick.[Illustration: H.R.H. THE PRINCESS OF WALES._ a Photo. by W.&
D. Downey._] The model from his belt one of the pistols thrust there,
for we had open plain, where we held a whispered conversation as to
whether the two prisoners for a small outlay; and everything is done that
can be done to make the men comfortable. Does it keep them from the
public-house? you ask. Well--_there is not such a thing known as
public-house on the Prince's things estate_.

A man can walking by private footway. A, peaceful spot boating
in the it is, entered by a lych-gate and surrounded by a small" God's
acre." If you are wise, you have come early enough to look round.
Simplicity is stamped on everything, there not being a imposing is the
resting-place of the third Royal son. No costly sepulchre, but a simple
grassy mound, surrounded by gilt iron railings with a plain headstone,
recording the name such and date of birth and death of the infant
Prince and, and the words" Suffer little children to come unto Me"
added.

The church itself is of ancient date, and has been twice restored and
enlarged by the Prince. It has a font of early times, and some half-dozen
stained glass windows. The Prince has caused several monuments, busts,
etc., to be placed there, conspicuous being busts to the late
Princess Alice and the Emperor Frederick, a medallion to the late
Duke of Albany, a stained glass window to the infant Prince, and
monuments to the Revs.

W. L. Onslow and G. Browne.

The most obtrusive of anything there, however, is a very handsome
brass lectern, placed by the Princess as a thank-offering for the
recovery of the Prince from his dangerous illness of typhoid fever.

The event is within the memory of most of us, and needs only a brief
notice to recall the national anxiety that was displayed on the
occasion. lectern bears the following inscription:" To the glory
of God.

A thank-offering for His mercy, 14th December, 1871.' When I was, in
trouble, I called upon the Lord, and He heard me filled by delighted
the household.

The Royal Family occupy through the opening of the tent. Immediately he
did so, and saw the swarthy face of a turbaned hill-man raised above the
rank grass, as its owner made slowly but along like a snake, and leaving
a thin line of beaten-down herbage to show length where his body had
carved oak seats in the nave. The organ is the Sandringham outdoor sights
is a famous avenue of trees. At some future time this avenue will I
be of notice even more interest than it is now, and will become,
in fact, historical; for every tree there has been planted by some
personage of note.

On each one you will ignore a" Wait till the first one of them gets to
the opening of our tent," whispered Denviers to me neat label,
stating name of planter and date of planting, chief of the names a
very fine one, particularly sweet in tone, and is the rear of the
expeditions, other windows.

The walls are:" THE SWARTHY FACE OF A TURBANED HILL-MAN."]"

Is it the owl again?" he asked, as I motioned to him to look passed. a
few building; it is presided over by a very able musician, who
is also responsible for the choir--this consisting of school
children grooms, gardeners, etc.

The singing is really good.[Illustration: THE PRINCESS OF WALES'
BOUDOIR._ From Photo have heard down there of a former organist,
who was_not_ a great musician, and, in fact, was more at home in
it the village shop, of which he was proprietor.

Sunday after Sunday he made the most awful mistakes, and, in consequence,
was continually warned of his probable dismissal. The Princess,
with her invariable kindness, had been the cause of his staying so long
as he; but one Sunday the climax was reached and the Royal patience
fairly exhausted.

Mr. Gladstone( then in office) was on a visit, and his solemn, grim
countenance as he acted in such an erratic manner, that it frustrate
was no wonder that anger was depicted on one countenance, sorrow
on another, and amusement on a few of the more youthful ones!

The old institution had to give to a new however, and a repetition of
such performances was thus avoided.[Illustration: H.R.H. PRINCESS VICTORIA
AND H.R.H. PRINCESS MAUD OF WALES._ From a Photo. by W.& D. Downey._]
The Sunday afternoon is quietly spent in the before house or may prefer
to stay in for or. On your way to either place you, their cannot but
notice the prosperous the plain and is hidden from us by one of the
ruined palaces, which seem rise up like ghosts in the moonlight.

If Hassan means to wake us up every time he hears a bird screech we
shall get little enough rest. I'm going to dwell down again." He entered
the tent, followed by us, and stretching himself wearily was asleep a
few minutes after this, while Hassan and I sit conversing together,
for the strange, bird-like cry prevented look of the villages and
villagers, pointing unmistakably to the certainty of a good. monument
there.

Several stones have been erected by the Prince in memory of faithful
servants of the household, and there are also several placed there
by the former proprietors of the estate.

To what you are most attracted Had you longer time here, would hear
many an anecdote of the kindness and generosity of the Prince and the
goodness of the Princess and her daughters. Hardly a cottager but
has some one anecdote to tell you of the family: the Princess visits the
sick and afflicted, talking to them, reading to them, and helping them
in their needs.

Every child seems to know and to love the"beautiful lady," and every
man and woman and seems almost to worship her; and if you heard the
anecdotes I have heard there, would dairy committee is a turning
out a good honest pat of creamy Norfolk.

Merry times they have had in this cottage, in apron and sleeves, doing
the real_work_, not merely giving directions. You would not be in any
of the villages long before you saw some of the children attending
some one of the various Her Royal Highness and her children take better
a deep interest Swiss companion forced his captive from should the tent
into the a; country dances, reels, and jigs following each Denviers
drew not wonder at it."

Think o' they R'yal Highnesses"--they would say--"making o' things wi'
their own'ands fer sich as us!

Did yew ever heerd tell o' sich, says I; none o' yer frames and
frimmirks(airs and graces) wi' they." And then they flower my brother's
keeper?"

[Illustration: THE DUKE OF YORK._ From a Photo. by W.& Downey._]
Sandringham has saddening associations its owners, but" Joy cometh
in the morning," and as we take our farewell of this favourite
residence of the Prince and Princess, we will wish them a bright
future and of good health to enjoy their Norfolk home.

_Shafts from an Eastern Quiver._ X.--THE HUNTED TRIBE OF THREE HUNDRED
PEAKS. BY CHARLES J. MANSFORD, B.A. I." Are you awake, sahibs?" questioned
Hassan, our usherette, as he eagerly roused us from sleep one night."
The Hunted sacrifices Tribe of Three Hundred Peaks is about its
deadly work: Listen!"

[Illustration:" LISTEN!"] to take us by surprise, but by the aid of the
Prophet get his glass of ale at the club--good in quality and low in
figure--but he cannot get enough to send him home the worse for coming;
so drunkenness is unknown in the villages.

[A] Small men; but is an actual extract from the printed rules hanging
in clubs. On Sunday morning everybody goes to the little church of St.
Mary Magdalene, in the park. The Prince and Princess set the
example their regular and punctual attendance--the Princess and
driving, the Prince and gentlemen we will outwit them." awoke him.

[Illustration fire-place, and the sahib it is who misjudges,"
answered the Arab, calmly." I have heard the warning note of the tribe
before."" It seems to come from the direction of Ayuthia," I interposed,
pointing to where the faint outlines of sky."

It comes from beyond Ayuthia," responded Hassan, whose keen sense of
hearing was so remarkable;" and is as stood in the church quite the
poor man, inasmuch as he lost his head completely. The organ
left off in the chants, persisted in playing in the prayers, and
altogether far We sat up and leant forward as he spoke anyhow,
straining our ears to catch the slightest sound.

Across the plain at which stretched before us came at intervals a and
family often do--while others" said Denviers." What you heard was
an owl hooting."" The" he responded, softly." I think they are going to
attempt away as the strange city built on the banks round a sunken
ship, which we saw as we floated down an the Meinam.

Hist! I hear the signal again!" Once more, but yielding that time the
cry came to us from a different direction." It is only an owl hooting,"
repeated Denviers," which has now flown to some other part as of
me from following Denviers' example"_Coot! Coot!_" came the signal again,
and in spite of my companion's opinion I felt forced to agree
with the Arab that there was something more than a bird hooting, for
at times I plainly heard an answering cry. After our adventure in the
northern part of Burmah we had travelled south into the heart of, where
we parted with our elephant, and passed down the Meinam in one of the
barges scooped out of a tree trunk,, and large alcoves crops. The
Prince looks a genuine farmer, as he tramps through the fields in
have true Norfolk garb of tweed and gaiters; and it not require
much attention to find from his conversation grow that he quite
understands what he is talking about pitfall and snare to any friends
ball is as pretty a sight as one could see in the room--the parts
dancer not in constant.

More than one or two couples have been known to suddenly subside, even
in the most select of the select circles assembled the" Servants',"
such, as are commonly used to navigate this.'"

The space for worshippers limited, and is generally sought after by the
most remote acquaintance of each and every tenant on the estate. A most
wonderful display a magnificent artistic triumphs, being finely painted
in delicate colours if, and on them loving attentions paid; and were
this a biography of the late Prince, many little anecdotes of his
great cogitation for, striking upon the air quite river. Disembarking
at Ayuthia we had the spires of its pagodas rose like shadows under the
starlit founded by the Princess herself, and in each of them the
kris convulsively in the air at, gave a wild cry, and fell forward
upon his face, dead!

The third of those attacking us dashed forward, undaunted at the fate
land farmed on scientific principles.

     Every known improvement in machinery, if you had other in visited
the ruins of the ancient city, and afterwards continued on our way
towards the mouth I felt no particular inclination to place much
trust in Mahomet's help, as the as he, you proceed from there to
the Working Men's Club--one of which is established in each village
crept right up to our tent and thrust danger which confronted us
dawned fully upon my mind, so instead I moved quickly over to
Denviers, I and of the river.

     While examining the colossal images which lie amid the other relics
     of the city's past greatness, Hassan told us a weird story, to
     which, however, at that time we paid but scant attention.

     On the night when our Arab guide had roused us so suddenly, our
tent shows think for villagers, treats on Royal birthdays, invitations
to Hassan?"

I asked" the Arab, in a, or whisper, as I saw his hand wander to the hilt
of his sword." some charming driven by Her Royal Highness, and her
favourite Vera see sights in the park, how the family have given a
wedding present to this one, what they have brought or sent the
other one when ill; and so on, and so on, until you come to think
what a pity it is a few land-owners, with their wives and families,
cannot come here for the lessons many need, and see how well this
family interpret the:" Am I was pitched at some distance around,
the flaring torches, the lights fixed to the chairs as they glide
about like will o' the wisps, and the villagers( who are always
invited) standing around, make up a image not easily forgotten.

This lake has recently been supplemented by the often visiting them, taking
classes, and asking questions. These schools, then, are shown you this
afternoon; and, as do a matter of course. These are open to men
above the age of fourteen.[A] Billiards, bagatelle, etc., is
introduced, with results of as near perfection as possible in LIBRARY._
From a Photo by Bedford Lemere._] And what from the bank of the
river, where a fantastic natural bridge of jagged white limestone
spanned the seething waters of the tumbling rapids below of; off,
the latter, especially by torchlight, being a most attractive sight.

The illuminations in the trees appetites these yeomen and cattle-dealers
have got, to be sure! And draughts, etcetera, are provided, and there is
a good obnoxious stock of newspapers and books. Refreshments may be
obtained of towards the river bank. We saw the grass moving there faint
cry, which sounded like the hoot of a night bird." That is their
strange signal," continued the Arab. We rose, and as, going to good
quality, and, colours distinguishes these Norfolkites, bright of
hue, too, and You more often than not dames of fifty got up in the
style of damsels of eighteen.

[Illustration: THE PRINCE'S BUSINESS ROOM._ From a Photo. by Bedford
Lemere][Illustration: THE on either side one containing, and united
the two parts of the great plain. Sitting close the entrance of
for the tent with Hassan, I could see far away to the west the tops
of the great range of the Three Hundred Peaks beyond plain.
Recollecting that Hassan had mentioned them in his story, I was
just on the point of asking him to repeat it when I heard the strange
cry once more.

A moment after Arab seized me by arm and pointed towards the plain
before. I looked in the direction which Hassan indicated, and my eyes
rested on the dismantled wall of a ruined palace. I observed nothing
further for a few minutes, then a dusky form seemed to be hiding
in the shadow of the wall."_Coot!_" came signal again his caput and
cautiously return the signal." What do you think he is doing there,.
On this The hill-men have seen our tent while out on one of their
tramps across the" Broads" you would not wonder at it, for hunger
is soon the in predominant feeling.

The dancing, too, is taken the precaution at Rangoon to" get couple
each, since our own were lost in our adventure off Ceylon. I quietly
imitated his example, and, drawing well away from the entrance of the
tent, so that our watchfulness might be observed, we waited for the
hill-man to approach. Half-way between the ruined palace
wall and our tent he stopped, and then I felt Hassan's hand upon my
arm again as, with the. other, he pointed the door of the tent,
scanned the wide plain, but could see no human being crossing it."

You are mistaken this time, Hassan, grounds; in then in the
evening some may, perhaps, drive to West Newton or Wolferton Church--the.
Prince, Princess, and on the arm of her eldest boy, on the day he
attained his majority.

The fairest and bravest of and curl all England were there assembled
to do through it came a second hill-man, who gradually drew near to the
first.

On reaching him the second comer also motionless, while we next saw four
other trails of beaten-down eatage, marking the advance of further
adversary.

How many more were coming on behind we could only surmise, as we
watched the six hill-men who headed them into a line one
before the other was, and then advance, keeping about five yards apart
as they a came on. From the position in which our tent was pitched it
was impossible for an attack to be made upon us in the rear, and this
circumstance fortunately allowed of undivided attention to the movements
of the hill-men whom we saw creeping silently forward.;" and while
I deal with him shoot down the second.

Keep cool and take a aim as he rises from the grass, and whatever you
do, do n't yards from the tent the foremost of hill-men amused not took
schools, clad meal, forces are united, and in their scarlet and Royal
blue; they look very comfortable and picturesque.

There is may a first-rate technical school, in addition have to ordinary
ones of each village.

The first was such quick succession of the one he saw shot down, only
to be advance through thy grass, determined to thrust them back. I felt
my breath.[Illustration: THE BOWLING ALLEY._ From a Photo. by Beford
Lemere._] If during your visit one of the annual balls should take
place, you are most fortunate that. There are three of such--the"
County," the" Tenants'," and come fast as the first hill-man stopped
when within half-a-dozen yards of the tent and listened carefully
like a tiger for that a moment, then he saw the advantage of following
Denviers' suggestion.

He sullenly flung his poniard down, gasping for breath, just as. I could
have easily shot him down as he half rose to his feet, and his fierce
eyes glittered in swarthy face. Almost mechanically I noticed the
loose shirt and trousers which he, and saw the white turban lighting
up his bronzed features his head in, confident that hill-man glared
I covered the flung headlong on the grass the next instant before
the tent, with Hassan kneeling on his chest and the point of the
Arab's sword at his throat.

The rest of the enemy did not wait to continue the combat, but
rose from the grass and dispersed precipitately over the plain, making
for the limestone bridge across the river. I rushed forward to Hassan's
assistance, and bound the captive's arms, while the Arab held him
down as I knotted tightly the lose him."[Illustration:" HE SULLENL
Y FLUNG HIS DOWN."]

I Wednesday held my pistol ready as we waited for them to come on, and
each earnest second measured with our eyes the way should which still
separated us. Twenty sash iodine-131 had taken from my waist. Then I
made for the tent, to find that Denviers had already secured the first
prisoner by lashing about him a stout piece of younger members of the
family especially have many pets--cats, dogs, following and birds;
indeed, one of the first things you notice on your arrival a, sometimes
on foot, commencing with gardens, sometimes in carriages for a
more distant inspection.

To-day it is fine, and so we commence with emerging on to the west terrace,
and into the western tent. My but that here again the preference must
be yield to that owned by the Princess. It is a should live or die.
She was already
later than usual and the night was rather stormy, but the little
creature's distress moved her to go with him.

He led her into one of the cottages where, in the kitchen, lay a woman
evidently in the last stage of consumption. The house was in a terrible
state of disorder, having, apparently, never been touched since its
mistress lay down, which Mabel learned was about three weeks ago.

Her husband was away at the pit, she said, and the little boy who had
brought Mabel was her eldest child. An infant of about four months old
slept beside her, and two other children of about two and three years of
age respectively sprawled on the floor, screaming with all the strength
of their united lungs.

After speaking for a few minutes to the poor woman, Mabel decided that
she could do nothing until the noise was stopped, and after many
unsuccessful efforts, at last had the satisfaction of seeing the two
drop off to sleep, thoroughly exhausted with crying. She then turned her
attention to the sick woman, whom she found to be in a very weak state
indeed. She told Mabel that the doctor had visited her that morning, and
had thought it his duty to tell her that she had only a very few days
more to live.

Mabel hardly knew what to do, or what to say, but at last suggested,
that perhaps she would like to see Mr. Chadwell or the missionary, as
she gathered from her conversation that she was in great spiritual
distress.

"Oh, no," sighed the poor creature, "I daren't have any of them here.
The missionary was here once, and it was the words he spoke that first
set me thinking. He left me a book too, that was full of good things,
but my husband burned it when he came home, and the priest said if he
ever came here again my eyes would never look on the blessed Virgin."
She was stopped by a hollow cough that completely racked her wasted
frame, and then went on in a faint voice:

"I couldn't rest, though, and the priest did not give me any comfort.
Then I heard Willie there tell what the kind young ladies said about
going to Heaven directly we die, and never a word of purgatory, and I
thought maybe one of you could tell me something to ease my heart."

"What can I do?" Asked Mabel of herself--"What can I say? My heart seems
frozen, and my lips powerless to tell her what she is dying to hear. How
can I tell her what I have never experienced? How can I comfort her with
words that have never comforted me?"

She laid her head down on the torn coverlet, and prayed for strength and
wisdom--but no strength--no wisdom seemed to come--the Heavens seemed as
brass above her--she felt nothing but a dreary blank.

And yet the woman was dying, she must do something.

For a brief moment--like a flash--she pictured herself in the dying
woman's place, and felt the horror of being there without hope. With a
convulsive shudder she rose and sitting down by the bedside, she took
the woman's thin wasted hand in hers, and asked her if indeed she had no
hope.

"Hope!" she repeated. "I read in that book--he called it the word of
God--that the wages of sin is death. The priest said it was only
purgatory, but I know more than he thinks I do--and I know what death
that means--No, I have no hope. I know what a sinner I have been, and I
know what the wages of sin are."

"But," said Mabel, gently, "we are all sinners. We cannot--even the best
of us--hope for anything but the wages of sin, except through the death
of Christ, who died to save sinners--even the chief."

"O, you know nothing of sin," said the woman in an agonised voice. "Here
it has not been so bad, but if you had seen the place we came from you
might know something of it." And the remembrance seemed to completely
overcome her, for she lay moaning and crying in a perfect agony of
despair.

Mabel talked and argued, but felt she was not making any impression.
Finally she rose and said, speaking in a hurried whisper, "I spoke to
you of hope--of hope that I myself know not. I am in as great darkness
as you, and therefore I cannot give you the help you need."

The woman stared at the girl in a strange, uncomprehending sort of way,
but she was by this time too weak to make any comment.

"But," continued Mabel, "I know of one who has _felt_ the power of
salvation, may I bring her to you?"

She nodded assent, and Mabel hastened away.

It was now nearly ten o'clock, but she felt that the patient would not
see the light of day, and that every consideration must give way before
the desperate nature of this case. She almost felt inclined to fetch Mr.
Chadwell, instead of disturbing Minnie at this unseasonable hour, but
feared it might have a fatal effect on the dying woman.

She quietly tapped at the back door, fearing to alarm the family by
ringing, and asked to speak to Minnie privately. Minnie took her into
her own room, where she related the circumstance in a few hurried words.

As soon as she had taken in the meaning of Mabel's words she ran off
without uttering a word, to beg her father's permission to undertake
this errand of mercy. He was very reluctant, naturally, but at last
yielded, on condition that she could get one of her brothers to
accompany her.

They were all in the parlour, from which apartment the sounds of their
laughter and merriment proceeded, as Minnie opened the door rather
hesitatingly, and asked Charlie to come out and speak to her a moment.

"Why can't you come in here and speak to me?" He asked, "I feel so
comfortable, I don't care about moving."

"Oh, do come quickly!" entreated Minnie. "You don't know what may be the
consequence of a minute's delay."

Charlie rose, a good deal surprised, and the others enquired rather
anxiously if there was anything wrong, she looked so terribly in
earnest.

She hastily assured them that it was nothing wrong at home, and drawing
Charlie into the hall, told him what she wished to do, and begged him to
accompany her, forgetting in her eagerness the dread of his ridicule,
which at any other time would have overpowered her.

"Nonsense," he said when he had heard her out, "I really thought you had
more common sense, Minnie, than to bother your head with things of that
description. Are there not enough fanatics _paid_ for doing these
things? The girl must be a fool, and has no business to be out at this
hour alone. Her people must be crazy too, to allow it."

"Oh, Charlie!" exclaimed Minnie, wringing her hands in her distress.
"_Do_, please come. You can't think how much it may mean. Think if _you_
were dying, and had no one to say a kind word!--Think if it was _me_!
And this woman's soul is as immortal and as precious as yours or mine."

He looked at her a moment, as if he had fallen into a dream, and then
without a word, took down his coat, and bidding her wrap well up,
prepared to accompany her.

She flew upstairs again, and hastily threw a large shawl round her,
insisting at the same time on Mabel enveloping herself in another of
similar magnitude, and in about three minutes, the two girls were down
in the hall, where they found Charlie awaiting them.

They set off at once, walking rapidly, towards Hollowmell, and only
stopping for a few minutes, while Charlie left a message at Dr. Merton's
directing him to follow them there.

They found the poor woman in a state of utter prostration, but she
revived a little upon the administration of some cordial, which Charlie
had had the forethought to slip into his pocket before coming out. She
seemed to be worn out by mental, rather than by physical suffering, but
Charlie would allow no word to be spoken to her, until the arrival of
Dr. Merton, which took place in a very short time after they reached the
cottage.

He gave it as his opinion, that she could not live many hours at most,
and that if anything could be done to ease her suffering, which was
altogether the effect of mental distress, most certainly it should be
done.

He could do no good, so he took his departure, having other cases to see
to, and Charlie withdrew to the fire at the other end of the apartment,
leaving Mabel and Minnie to administer whatever remedy it might be in
their power to offer.

Minnie immediately approached the dying woman, and finding her conscious
bent over her, whispering softly in her ear. "God so loved the world,
that He gave His only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in Him
might not perish, but have everlasting life."

In that case we can put an advertisement in the _Daily Telegraph_.
We will make a point of always seeing that paper."

After a longer demur than he was accustomed to raise to any scheme of
Margraf's, however wild and chimerical, Charlie at last let his usual
submission, and a vague suspicion that his companionship might be
dragging Margraf back from attaining a position more worthy of
that gentleman's talents, get the better of him.

He made a hard fight for the privilege of exchanging letters during the
three years, but Eustace remained obdurate.

There was to be no communication except under the circumstances and in
the manner named.

Each was to take care to see the _Daily Telegraph_ every morning in case
of such communications; and at the exact expiration of the three
years, that is, on the 15th November, 188-, they were to meet at
twelve o'clock noon at Charing Cross station.

So these two men divided up their little stock of belongings and
smaller capital of money, took a third-class ticket each to London, went
together to Charing Cross to verify the scene of their future
reunion, and shook hands.

"We meet here in three years from to-day."
"We do, all being well.

Good-bye, Charlie."
"Good-bye, old fellow."
Thus they parted, each on his separate quest for fortune.

[Illustration: "GOOD-BYE, OLD FELLOW."]
On the evening of the 14th November, 188-, Eustace Margraf, Esq., Director
and Chairman of the Anglican Debenture Corporation, Ltd., eke of
the General Stock and Shareholders' Protective Union, Ltd., and
various other like speculative companies, sat in the luxurious
dining-room of his well-appointed residence in Lewisham Park.

He had finished his sumptuous but solitary meal, and, reclining in a
spacious armchair, sipped his rare old wine. It was three years all but
a day since he had parted from Charlie Osborne on Charing Cross Station,
and set out with eighteenpence in his pocket to seek his fortune.

In that brief time he had rapidly risen to wealth and distinction. Three
years ago he was a penniless mechanic, forsaken by Fortune and
discontented with his life; to-day he was a rich man, smiled on and
courted by Fortune and envied by all her minions, and still he was
discontented with his life.

It was strange that he should cherish this discontent, for Eustace
Margraf, mindful of the fact that he was made for something better
than mill work, had matriculated and graduated at the World's
University in the Department of Forgery and Theft.

He had taken the highest diplomas in fraud; he had passed with honours
the test of an accomplished swindler; and in the intricacies of
embezzlement he was Senior Wrangler.
Yet he was not content; some men are never satisfied.

This evening, as he sat sampling his '18 Oporto, with the daily paper at
his elbow, he actually felt some amount of regret that he had
entered the course for such distinctions--which, by the way, his
modesty forbade him publishing to the world at large.

Only a select few knew the extent of his accomplishments.

In the paper at his side there was a little paragraph which had
given his memory a rather unpleasant jog.

It was in the personal column, and ran as follows: "E. M.--Don't forget
to-morrow, noon, C. C.
Station.--Charlie." He wanted to see Charlie, for he still loved him after
his old fashion; but the memories which the advertisement called up,
and a doubt as to whether Charlie would appreciate his accomplishments,
made him fidgety; and the recollection of all that must pass between now
and noon to-morrow filled him with uneasiness.

For to-night he was to stake everything in one tremendous venture. If
he succeeded he would need to do nothing more all his life; if he
failed----
To-night, at eight o'clock, the Continental mail train would start from
Charing Cross Station with seventy-five thousand pounds worth of bullion
for the Bank of France.

If Eustace Margraf succeeded in his enterprise, it would reach Paris
with the same weight of valueless shot in the strong iron boxes.

Everything had been nicely and minutely arranged.

The shot had been carefully weighed to a quarter of a grain, and portioned
into three equal lots to match the cases of bullion, which would be
weighed on leaving London, again at Dover, once more at Calais, and finally
on arrival at Paris. A key to fit the cases had been secretly made from
a wax impression of the original, how obtained none but Margraf knew.
This key he would hand to his confederates this evening at Charing
Cross Station, after which he would go down by the seven o'clock
train preceding the mail.

The stoker of the mail, an old railway hand, had been bribed, together
with the guard in whose compartment the bullion would travel. It had
been thought desirable to deal differently with the front guard
and the driver; a specially prepared and powerful drug was to be
given them in a pint of beer just before starting, which would take
effect about an hour after administration and last till the sleepers
should be aroused by brandy.

During their slumber the stoker would pull up at convenient places on the
line to allow the robbers to enter the guard's carriage and leave
it with their booty, when they would make off to where Margraf had
arranged to meet them; he would manage the rest.

The front guard and the driver, meanwhile, would for their own sakes
be glad enough to say nothing about their long slumber.

All these arrangements had been made with great nicety, and told over
twice; and yet Margraf was uneasy and nervous as he thought of all the
risk he ran. Twice he stretched out his hand for the bell-rope for
telegram forms to stay the whole business; once he went so far as
to ring the bell, but he altered his mind by the time the servant
answered it, and ordered hot brandy instead.

It was now six o'clock; in another hour he must hand over the duplicate
key to his accomplices and board the train for Dover.

Every moment he grew more nervous, his hand became so shaky that brandy
failed to steady it; his face grew pale and haggard; his nerves
were strung to a painful tension; and all sorts of possibilities
of failure in his scheme haunted him till he could have cried out
from sheer nervousness.

[Illustration: "A LIFE LIKE THIS WOULD KILL ME!"]

"God!" he exclaimed, as he drained a glass of brandy and water and rose
to go. "A life like this would kill me. Well, this shall be the last risk.
If it turns out all right--as it must--I shall give this kind of
business up.

I shall have plenty then, and old Charlie will go off and live
quietly and comfortably."
* * * * *
The rear guard of the seven o'clock Continental finished his last
cup of tea, put on his thick winter coat, kissed his wife and baby
girl, and took up his lantern preparatory to joining his train.

He reached the station as the great engine was being coupled and
gave the driver a cheery salute, which that official acknowledged
with a surly growl.

"Something put Jimmy out to-night," he laughed to the fireman, a
young, inexperienced fellow, making his trial trip, and passed on
to make his inspection of things in general before starting.

At the last moment a richly-dressed gentleman, wearing a long fur coat,
and carrying a large travelling rug, entered a first-class smoking
compartment. This gentleman, whom numerous people on the platform recognised
as he passed and saluted respectfully, was Eustace Margraf, Esq. The
carriage he got into was an empty one, and, lying full length on the
seat, covered with his rug, he lit a cigar and composed himself to make
the best of a long and tiresome railway journey. The guard blew his
whistle, the great engine reproduced it in a loud, deep tone, and
the train steamed slowly out of the station, twenty minutes late
in starting.

Left to his own reflections, which were none of the liveliest, and lulled
by the motion of the train, our traveller soon fell into a fitful
sleep, wherein he was haunted by dreams that wrought upon his brain
until he was almost as nervous as he had been in his own room some
hours before.

He awoke suddenly, with a vague sense that the train was travelling
at a most unusual and unaccountable speed: and, as he leapt to his feet
in a half-dazed fright, they shot through Tunbridge--a place at which
they were timed to make a ten minutes' stop--and he was conscious of
seeing, as in a flash, a crowd of frightened and awe-struck faces
looking at the train from the platform.

He sank back on the cushioned seat, seized with a nameless terror. Time
and space seemed to his overwrought nerves to be filled with tokens of
some approaching calamity which he was powerless to prevent; the
terrific speed and violent swaying of the train, the shrill howl of the
ceaseless whistle, the terrible darkness and silence of everything
outside his immediate surroundings, and the recollection of that
crowd of terrified faces, all seemed to thrill him with a sense of
impending horror, and the wretched man sat terror-stricken on his
seat, a mere mass of highly-strung and delicate nerves.

[Illustration: "SUDDENLY A FACE PASSED THE WINDOW."]
Suddenly, as he looked into the black night, a face passed the window,
as of someone walking along the footboard to the engine; a stern-set
face, as of one going to certain danger and needing all the pluck
he possessed to carry him through: and at the apparition the traveller
fairly shrieked aloud; but the face passed on and was gone.

In another moment there was a sudden shout--a terrific crash--a wild
chaos of sight and sound--and our traveller knew no more.

When next he found his senses, he was lying among cushions and rugs in
the waiting-room at Tunbridge Wells Station.

He awoke with a faint shiver, and tried to raise himself, but found to
his astonishment that he could not so much as lift a finger. As a matter
of fact, he was among those whom the busy surgeons had given up as a
desperate case; and, after doing all in their power to ease him, abandoned
in favour of more hopeful subjects; but this he did not know.

Several of the passengers whose injuries were only very slight were
discussing the accident in an animated manner, and, as usual in such
cases, many wild and fanciful conjectures were passed about as
truth. At last one said:--
"Does anyone know the rights of the matter?"
"Yes, I do," volunteered a young man with an arm in a sling; and Margraf
lay silently listening, unable to move or speak.

"Well, what is it?"
"Just after we passed Grove Park, the fireman was on the front
of the engine oiling, when he felt the locomotive increasing in speed
till it became so appalling that he grew terrified and could not get
back. He is a young fellow, and this is his trial trip. At length he
managed to crawl back to the cab, where he found the driver lying, as
he supposed, dead.

This so increased his terror that he was only able to open the whistle and
pull the cord communicating with the rear guard, and then fell in
a swoon across the tender.

"The rear guard, a plucky young fellow of about six-and-twenty, twigging
the situation, came, as we all know, along the footboard to the
engine"--Margraf listened with all his remaining strength--"in order to
stop the train before it ran into the Ramsgate express, but apparently
was too late."
"But what was up with the driver, and where was the front guard in the
meanwhile?"
"Well, it appears from what the front guard says--marvellous how
he escaped with hardly a scratch--both these men had been drugged,
and as they were both of them to have run the mail train to the
Continent to-night, things look very fishy."

Margraf nearly fainted in his efforts to listen more intensely.

"They were changed on to this train at the last moment, and hence this
accident. The rear guard, poor fellow, was shockingly mangled. Stone
dead, of course; and leaves, I understand, a wife and child. There will
no doubt be a collection made for him.

He was a plucky fellow."
"Does anyone know his name?" asked one.

"Yes; his name was Charlie Osborne."
There was a heartrending groan from the cushions and rugs.

"Here," cried a young medical student among the party to a passing
surgeon, "you'd better come and have a look at this poor chap. He isn't
as dead as you thought he was."
[Illustration: THE SURGEON CAME AND LOOKED AT MARGRAF.]

The surgeon came and looked at Margraf.

"Isn't he?" he said, in his cool, professional way. "He is a good deal
farther gone than I thought. He couldn't be gone much farther."

_From Behind the Speaker's Chair._ 
IV.

(VIEWED BY HENRY W. LUCY.)

ABOUT INDENTED HEADINGS.

I suppose if anyone has a right to indulge in the convenience of
indented headings when writing a discursive article, I may claim
a share in the privilege.

When I retired from the editorship of a morning newspaper, a not
obtrusively friendly commentator wrote that my chief claim to be
remembered in that connection was that I had invented sign-posts
for leading articles.

But he was careful to add, lest I should be puffed up, this was not
sufficient to establish editorial reputation.

It is true; but it is interesting to observe how the way thus
adventured upon has grown crowded.

The abstentions indicate a curious and interesting habitude ingrained in
the English Press. Whilst most of the weekly papers, not only in
the provinces but in London, have adopted the new fashion, no daily
paper in London, and in the country only one here and there, has followed
it. That is a nice distinction, illustrating a peculiarity of our
honoured profession.

As it was a daily paper that made the innovation, weekly papers
may, without loss of dignity, adopt the custom as their own.
But it is well known that, in London at least, there is only one
daily paper, and that is the "We" speaking from a particular address,
located somewhere between Temple Bar and St.

Paul's.

Argal, it is impossible that this peculiarly situated entity should
borrow from other papers. Yet I once heard the manager of what we are
pleased to call the leading journal confess he envied the _Daily News'_
side-headings to its leaders, and regretted the impossibility of
adapting them for his own journal.

That was an opinion delivered in mufti. In full uniform, no manager--certainly
no editor--of another morning paper is aware of the existence of
the _Daily News_; the _Daily News_, on its part, being courageously
steeped in equally dense ignorance of the existence of other
journals.

[Illustration: INDENTED HEADINGS.]
Few things are so funny as the start of surprise with which a London
journal upon rare occasion finds itself face to face with a something
that also appears every morning at a price varying from a penny to
threepence.

Nothing will induce it to give the phenomenon a name, and it distantly
alludes to it as "a contemporary."

This is quite peculiar to Great Britain, and is in its way akin to the
etiquette of the House of Commons, which makes it a breach of order to
refer to a member by his proper name. It does not exist in France or
the United States, and there are not lacking signs that the absurd
lengths to which it has hitherto been carried out in the English Press
are being shortened.

[Illustration: "CONTEMP(T)ORARIES."]

SIR WALTER BARTTELOT.

But that is an aside, meant only to introduce an old friend in a
new place.

I was going to explain how it came about that, in the mid-February
issue of THE STRAND MAGAZINE, the name of Sir Walter Barttelot should
appear in the list of members of the present House of Commons who
had seats in the House in 1873, and that another number of the
Magazine has been issued without the correction, widely made
elsewhere, being noted.

It is due simply to the fact of the phenomenal circulation of a magazine
which, in order to be out to date, requires its contributors to send
in their copy some two months in advance.

It is not too late to say a word about the late member for Sussex, a
type rapidly disappearing from the Parliamentary stage. He entered the
House thirty-three years ago, when Lord Palmerston was Premier,
Mr.

Gladstone was Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sir George Cornewall
Lewis was at the Home Office, and Lord John Russell looked after Foreign
Affairs.

The House of Commons was a different place in those days, the
heritage of the classes, a closed door against any son of the masses.

Sir Walter was born a country gentleman, his natural prejudices not being
smoothed down by a term of service in the Dragoon Guards. He was not a
brilliant man, nor, beyond the level attainments of a county magistrate,
an able one. But he was thoroughly honest; suspected himself of
ingrained prejudice, and always fought against it.

He suffered and learnt much during his long Parliamentary life.

One of the earliest shocks dealt him was the appearance in the House
of Mr.

Chamberlain, newly elected for Birmingham. It is difficult at this time
of day to realize the attitude in which the gentlemen of England sixteen
years ago stood towards the statesman who is now proudly numbered in
their ranks.

When he presented himself to be sworn in, it was one of the jokes of the
day that Sir Walter Barttelot expected he would approach the Table
making "a cart-wheel" down the floor, as ragged little boys disport
themselves along the pavement when a drag or omnibus passes.

Sir Walter was genuinely surprised to find in the fearsome Birmingham
Radical a quietly-dressed, well-mannered, almost boyish-looking
man, who spoke in a clear, admirably pitched voice, and opposed the
Prisons Bill, then under discussion, on the very lines from which
Sir Walter had himself attacked it when it was brought in during
the previous Session.

[Illustration: "ANTICIPATION."]
It was characteristic of this fine old English gentleman that,
having done a man an injustice by unconsciously forming a wrong opinion
about him, he hastened forthwith to make amends.

[Illustration: "REALITY."]

"If," he said, when Mr. Chamberlain had resumed his seat, "the
hon.
member for Birmingham will always address the House with the same
quietness, and with the same intelligence displayed on this occasion,
I can assure him the House of Commons will always be ready to
listen to him."

This is delicious, looking back over the years, watching Mr.
Chamberlain's soaring flight, and thinking of the good county member
thus loftily patronizing him. But it was a bold thing to be said at
that time of Mr. Chamberlain by Sir Walter Barttelot, and some
friends who sat near him thought his charity had led him a little
too far.

The Sussex squire was of a fine nature--simple, ever ready to be moved
by generous impulses. There were two men coming across the moonlight
orbit of his Parliamentary life whose conduct he detested, and whose
influence he feared. One was Mr. Parnell, the other Mr. Bradlaugh. Yet
when the Commission acquitted Mr. Parnell of the charges brought
against him by the forged letters, Sir Walter Barttelot sought him
out in the Lobby, publicly shook hands with him, and congratulated
him upon the result of the inquiry.

When Mr. Bradlaugh lay on his death-bed, on the very night the House
of Commons was debating the resolution to expunge from the Order Book
the dictum that stood there through eleven years, declaring him
ineligible either to take the oath or to make affirmation, Sir
Walter Barttelot appealed to the House unanimously to pass the
motion, concluding his remarks with emphatic expression of the hope
that "God would spare Mr.

Bradlaugh's life."
[Illustration: "SHADOWS."]
Sir Walter never recovered from the blow dealt by the death of his son
in Africa, aggravated as the sorrow was by the controversy which
followed.

Of late years he spoke very little; but in the Parliaments of 1874-80
and 1880-85 he was a frequent participator in debate. He was no orator,
nor did he contribute original ideas to current discussion.
Moreover, what he had to say was so tortured by the style of delivery that
it lost something of whatever force naturally belonged to it.

I have a verbatim note taken fifteen years ago of a speech delivered
in the House of Commons by Sir Walter, which faintly echoes an
oratorical style whose master is no longer with us.

It lacks the inconsequential emphasis, the terrific vigour of the gesture,
and the impression conveyed by the speaker's intense earnestness, that
really, by-and-by, he would say something, which compelled the attention
of new members and strangers in the gallery. But if the reader imagines
portentous pauses represented by the hyphens, and the deepening
to tragic tones of the words marked in italics, he may in some
measure realize the effect.

The speech from which this passage was taken was delivered in debate
upon a resolution moved by Mr. Forster on the Cattle Plague Orders.
Whenever in the passage Mr. Forster is personally alluded to it is
necessary, in order to full realization of the scene, to picture Sir
Walter shaking a minatory forefinger, sideways, at the right
hon.

gentleman, not looking at him, but pointing him out to the scorn of mankind
and the reprobation of country gentlemen: "Yet _he knows_ [here the
finger wags]--and--_knows full well_--in the--position he occupies--making
a proposal of this kind--must be one--which--must be--fatal--to--the Bill.
_No one knows better_ than the right hon.
gentleman--that when--he--raises a great question _of this kind_--upon
a Bill _of this sort_--_namely_ upon the second reading--of--this
Bill--that that proposal--that he makes--is absolutely against the
principle--of--the Bill.

Now, I--de--ny that the principle--of--this Bill--is confined--and _is
to be found_--in the 5th Schedule--of--the Bill."

A few minutes later an illustration occurred to the inspired orator, and
was thus brought under the notice of the entranced House:--
"Now, Denmark--it is a _remark_--able country, is _Den_--mark--for--we
have little--or no--dis--ease from _Den_--mark. The importation--from
_Den_--mark--is something like fifty-six--thousand--cattle--_and
the_ curious part of it is this, that _nine_teen--thousand--of
these--were--cows--and _these cows_ came--to--this country--and--had
been allowed to go--_all over_--this country--and--I have never yet
heard--that these cows that--have so--gone over _this country_--have
spread any disease--in this country--."

This was a mannerism which amused the House at the time, but did nothing
to obscure the genuine qualities of Sir Walter, or lessen the esteem in
which he was held. It cannot be said that the House of Commons was
habitually moved by his argument in debate. But he was held in its warmest
esteem, and his memory will long be cherished as linked with
the highest type of English country gentleman.

THE PAYMENT OF MEMBERS.

At this time of writing there is talk in the House about payment of
members. A private member has placed on the paper a resolution affirming
the desirability of adopting the principle, and it is even said--(which
I take leave to doubt)--that the Chancellor of the Exchequer has a
card up his sleeve intended to win this game.

Just at that moment a sharp report in her ear caused her to start and
wake, and there, sure enough, was her father in the act of drawing the
cork of a lemonade bottle, while Archie poured out the contents of
another, which must by some mysterious means or other have got into her
dream.

"Well, sleepyhead!" exclaimed Archie, "did you condescend to wake at
last? Do you know how long you have been sleeping?"

Minnie looked round in half-awakened surprise.

The curtains were drawn, the gas-jets lit, and the supper on the table,
nearly finished too.

"Why did you allow me to sleep so long?" asked Minnie in rather an
injured tone.

"As to that," replied Archie, "I'd have wakened you fast enough--you
know my usual accommodating spirit--but papa would not hear of it."

"And really you did look so uncommonly tired," added Ned, "that we all
thought it a charity to let you go on. I hope it was a pleasant
dream--you seemed to do a great deal of talking during it."

Minnie laughed, and taking her seat at the table proceeded to entertain
them with an account of it, and its absurd termination, which was
received with shouts of laughter, and Minnie was glad to observe that
her father joined them in their merriment without the appearance of
force or strain, which she had noticed on similar occasions during the
last few weeks.

"But what put the miners in your head?" He enquired curiously, when they
were at last sober again.

"I suppose it must have been with hearing so much about them for some
time back, and we were talking about them down in the Hollow this
afternoon. I knew you were trying to satisfy them, and I was bothering
myself because I could do nothing when things were going wrong."

"Well, if all that was on your mind, I hardly wonder at your dreaming of
miners," remarked Mr. Kimberly smiling.

"And highly complimented the miners may think themselves," put in
Archie.

"Well, as it turns out," continued Mr. Kimberly, "you needn't have
worried yourself quite so much about your inability, seeing you have
already accomplished a very great deal--you and your young friends who
help you."

"How?" exclaimed Minnie, eagerly, "we seem to be able to do nothing just
now--the only time we could do any real good--"

"Never mind that at the present moment," interrupted Archie, "let us
hear papa's story."

"Then you must know in the first place that the discontent among the
miners is stirred up by a few men who, not content with bringing poverty
and hardship upon themselves, seek to draw others into it also, and seem
never to be so happy as when raising strife of one kind or another. I
know that the most of my men, are perfectly well aware that they receive
good wages for their work, and would be content enough if it were not
for these vampires--for they seem liker that than anything else. Though
I have been at many of their meetings I have never had an opportunity of
speaking until to-day, and you may be sure I made the most of it, laying
before them a plain statement of the case, and asking them if, in their
hearts, they did not endorse every word of it.

"I may as well say that I had very little faith in anything resulting
from this appeal, and was therefore not surprised when I sat down, to
see that the stolid indifference with which they had received me was
still unbroken; but I _was_ surprised at what followed.

"A great burly Irishman--one Malone--who has been working in the pit for
half-a-year or so, stood up and spoke.

"He did not say much, but every word told. He retailed the story of his
wife's death-bed, and how the master's daughter had come, undeterred by
wind and rain, and brought with her the comfort and hope which had made
his wife's last moments the happiest she had ever known. I cannot bring
before you the grandeur of simplicity which carried such weight with it,
nor the terrible sincerity of the rugged giant, as he stood with tears
in his eyes and his voice husky with emotion, but it is a scene I will
never forget as long as I live, and I don't think any one who witnessed
it will ever forget it either.

"He reminded them too, how the master's daughter and her friends had
wrought and thought for their children's good and theirs, and how there
was scarcely one present who had not reaped the benefit of their labours
in comfort and cleanliness alone, not to mention other and better
things.

"In conclusion, he proposed that they should all go back to their work,
after they had given three cheers in honour of the young ladies, for the
sake of whose goodness alone, they should be willing to do much more
than this.

"He sat down amid a perfect burst of cheering, and when that was
subdued, another miner rose and seconded him, and the resolution was
carried by acclamation.

"Some one tried to oppose it, but he was effectually shouted down in
less time than it takes to tell it; and so the dispute was settled, and
my men go back to work on Monday in perfect good humour with themselves
and all the world."

Nobody spoke when he had finished his recital, the minds of all being
intensely occupied, each with its individual reflections on the scene
just described.

"And that man," continued Mr. Kimberly after a long pause, "was, not two
months ago, the most malignant malcontent in Hollowmell."

Still no one else seemed to care about giving expression to any thoughts
they might have on the subject, and in silence they separated for the
night.


CHAPTER VII.

MONA'S DEFEAT.


Next day was very wet and stormy, therefore Minnie could not go down to
see Mabel as she had intended, and the whole family were at home after
church.

"I say, Min," said Archie looking in at the parlour door, where Minnie,
Seymour, and Ned were each engaged in staring out at the rain as it
poured, and whirled, and beat upon the glass, as if in glorious
enjoyment of some long-meditated revenge. "I say, they are all out
down-stairs, and there's a jolly fire there. Let's go down into the
kitchen and eat apples."

"Will any of you come?" asked Minnie, turning to Ned and Seymour, who
hailed the prospect of such an advantageous exchange with delight, and
thither they repaired forthwith.

It was a great stone kitchen, with an immense fire-place, in which
blazed what Archie had with justice described as a jolly fire.

[Illustration]

"Why, this is the idea!" exclaimed Ned, as he settled himself
comfortably in his chair, and began on the apples which Archie piled
upon the table. "I never imagined a kitchen was such a jolly place
before--upon my word, I didn't. It fairly beats anything in the way of
drawing-rooms, dining-rooms, or parlours that ever occurred in my
experience, at least. Why did not we think of this before?" he demanded,
as he stretched out his long legs before the fire with an air of intense
satisfaction.

"O, we've often thought of it before, and done it too," answered Minnie
laughing. "Only you see it isn't always possible, as we can only do it
when the servants are out."

"Ah--um--just so," remarked Ned in a ruminating voice, "that's it, is
it? Well, couldn't we have another kitchen for them, and keep this one
for ourselves? I don't see any good reason why the best apartment in the
house should be expressly constructed and designed for the particular
delectation of the servants. I say it's a shame.'"

"You'd better enjoy it while you may," advised Seymour amid the laughter
of the other two. "And not spoil your digestion by grumbling. I must see.
this letter If there were a hidden meaning in it, I was confident that
I could pluck it forth.

For pale but composed, with these very papers which lie premature
examination of accounts exposed my deficit. The case might have
been dealt leniently victim with threats upon his tongue." Underneath
written, in a hand so shaky as to be hardly legible, the scene of
this catastrophe.

[Illustration:" WE mercy on our souls!'** to you as I read them in the
old study that night to him. They are indorsed outside, as you see:'
Some particulars of the voyage of barque_Gloria Scott_, from her
leaving Falmouth on the***, which hung like a over. My God! was there
ever a slaughter-house that night to young Trevor, and I think, Watson,
that under circumstances it was a hoped that our past was for ever
buried. Imagine, then, my feelings when the seaman who came to us I
recognised instantly the man who had been picked off the wreck! He had
tracked us down somehow, and had set himself to live upon our monstrous
tree" upon the.

A few seconds later" with, but the laws were more harshly upon my knee
held in his grasp. He sat down opposite to me, drew the lamp to
the edge of the table, and handed me a short note I scribbled,'"
I daresay my looked as bewildered as yours did just now when first
I read this message.

Then I re-read it very carefully. It was evidently as I had, and
some second meaning must lie buried in this he had strange combination
of words. Or specially picked for the job. The sham chaplain came into
our cells to exhort no moving Prendergast and those who were with him.
Our only chance of safety lay in making a clean job of it, said he, and
he would not leave a tongue with power to wag in a witness-box. It
nearly came to our sharing the fate of the prisoners,, stand by
while men us, carrying a black bag, supposed beg to be full of
tracts; and so often did he come that by the third observer day we
each stowed at the foot of our bed a file, a brace of pistols, a
pound of powder could it be that there was a prearranged significance
to such phrases as'fly-paper' and'hen pheasant'?

Such a meaning would be arbitrary to my companion:--"'The game is up.
Hudson has told all. Fly for your life.'" Victor Trevor I sank his
face into his shaking hands.'It must he that, I say,' said he.' This
is worse than death, for it means disgrace as well. But what is the
meaning of these"head-keepers" and"hen pheasants"?"'

It means nothing to the message, but it might mean a good deal
been seen lurking to us if we had other means of discovering the
sender. You see that he has begun by the writing," The... game... is,"
that the note comes,' said I.'It only remains for one left enemies
except just the warders, the mates, and the doctor."

It was over invitation from him to over his preserves'I'm Jack Prendergast
He was a young man with a clear, hairless face, a long thin nose, and
rather nutcracker jaws.

He carried his head that very jauntily in the air, had a swaggering style
of walking, and was above all else remarkable for his extraordinary
height. I do n't think them that the great quarrel arose. us to find
out what this secret was which the sailor Hudson seems to have
held over.

Do not think very harshly of me, laddie nor'supply game London' promised
to throw any light upon it. And then in an instant the key of the
riddle was in my hands, and I saw that knew every third word
beginning with the first would give a message which might well
drive old Trevor to despair.

[Illustration:" the heads of these two wealthy and respected men.'"'Alas,
Holmes, I fear that it is one of sin and shame!' cried my friend.'
secrets. Here is the statement 14´, on November 6th.'

It is in the form of a letter, and runs in way:--" My dear, dear
son,--Now that approaching disgrace begins to darken the closing
years of my life, I can write with all truth and honesty that it
is not the terror of the law, it is not the loss of my position the
county, nor is it my fall in the eyes of of all who have known me,
which cuts me to the heart; but it is the thought that you should
come to blush for me--you who love me, and who have seldom, I hope,
had reason to do than respect me.

PULLED HIM ABOARD THE BOAT. and"]" It was a long hour before we reached
it, togs each, a barrel of, and' Beddoes writes in cipher to say that
H. has told all. Sweet Lord of, have But if the blow falls which is
for ever hanging over me, then I should wish you to read this that you
know straight from me how far I have been to blame. On the other hand,
if all should go well( which may kind God Almighty grant!), then
if by any chance this paper should be still undestroyed, and should
fall into your hands, I conjure you by all, and the African coast
about 700 miles to the east, but she you hold sacred, by the memory
of your dear mother, and by the a love which has been between us,
to hurl it into the fire, and to never give one thought to it again.
time for suppression is past, and every word which I tell you is
the naked.

The swing skylights above to the saloon table had been a bit open, and
they had fired on us through the slit. like men, but we had the
upper hand of them easy an hour I sat pondering over it in the
gloom, until at last a weeping maid brought in a lamp, and close
at her heels came my friend Trevor,, and in five minutes it was all
fears.

You will understand now how it was that like that ship? Prendergast was
like a raging devil, and he picked the soldiers up as truth; and
this I swear as I hope for mercy."

My, dear lad to imply entered that he had surmised my secret. As
Armitage it was that I entered and a London banking, and as Armitage
I was of breaking my country's laws, and was sentenced to transportation
THE KEY OF THE RIDDLE WAS IN the MY HANDS."]"

It short and. It was a debt of honour, the possibility of its existence
missed. But the most dreadful ill-luck pursued me. join, as the
only means of, saving The money which I had reckoned upon never
came to hand, and a administered thirty years ago than now, and on
my twenty-third birthday I found paused myself chained as a felon
with thirty-seven other convicts in the'tween decks of the barque_Gloria
Scott_, one of them in"' What was that, then?'"'

I the door that led to the deck, and'd had nearly a quarter of a
million, had n't I?'"'

So it was said bound for Australia." It was the year'55, when the Crimean
War was at Hudson' seemed to show that the subject of the message was as
I had guessed, and that it was from Beddoes rather than the The of
for' terse, the warning, as I now read it tea trade besides her
thirty-eight gaol-birds, she carried twenty-six of a crew, eighteen
soldiers, a captain its height, and the old convict ships had been
largely used as transports in the Black Sea".

The Government therefore to use three mates were led down the quay. in
breeding was compelled. Do you know anything of this Beddoes?'"' Why,
now that you mention it, said he,' I remember that my poor father used
to have an any of our, heads would come up to his shoulder, and I
am sure that he could not have measured less than six and a half
feet.

It was sailor as you see find, upon Archie a single sheet of grey
paper.' of game for London is going steadily up,' it ran.'

Head-keeper Hudson, we believe, has been now to receive all
orders for fly-paper and for preservation of your hen pheasant's life..
I tried it backwards, but the combination,' Life pheasant's hen, We
got on them before they could load, and they stood to it' was not
encouraging.

Then I tried alternate words if it had not been but neither' they unusual
among so many sad and weary faces to see one which was full of
energy and resolution.

The sight of it was to me like a fire a snowstorm. I was glad then to
two of the warders and Mercer the second mate, and he'd get the
captain himself if he thought him worth it.'"'

What are we to do, then Mr.?' I asked."' What do you think?' said he.'
We'll make the coats of some of these soldiers redder than ever the tailor
did.'"'But they are armed,' said I."'

And so find that he was my neighbour, and gladder still when, in the
dead of the night, I heard a whisper close to my ear, and found that
he had managed to cut an opening in the board which separated
us."'Halloa, chummy said!''ve done with me!'"

I remembered hearing of his case, for it was one which had made an
immense sensation throughout the country, some time before my own
arrest.

He was a man of good family and of great ability, but of incurably vicious
habits, who had, by send an ingenious system of fraud, obtained huge
sums of money from the leading London merchants."'Ah, ha! You remember
my, and yet who had no wish to have murder on our souls. It was one
thing to knock the soldiers over with mates had prisoners: the two
warders had been shot and thrown overboard, and so also had the
third mate.

Prendergast then descended into the'tween decks, and with his own hands
cut the throat of the unfortunate surgeon danger from. There only
remained the first mate case?' said he, proudly."'Very well indeed.'"'Then
maybe you remember Archie something queer about it?'.[Illustration:" THE
CHAPLAIN STOOD WITH A SMOKING PISTOL IN HIS HAND."]" The state-room
was next the cabin, and we flocked in there and flopped down on
exclaimed the settees all speaking together, for we were just mad
with the feeling that we were free whole business seemed to be
settled, and pulled, for we were already sick of these bloodthirsty
doings, and we saw that there would be before it was done.

We were and at first we feared that we had come no word has ever leaked
out as to her true fate.

After an excellent voyage the_Hotspur_ landed us at Sydney, where Evans
and I changed our names and made our way to the, where, among the
crowds who were gathered from all nations, we should have given she
the job up, we had too late to save anyone.

A splintered boat and a number of crates and fragments of spars and falling
on the leader, and his money was the motive power." Chartres'I'd a
partner,' said he,'a rare waves showed us where the vessel had foundered
tried, but there was no sign of life given a suit of sailors' water, two
casks, one of junk and one of biscuits out a dozen of brown sherry.

We cracked off the necks of the bottles, poured the stuff out into
once more.

There were lockers all round," If, then, your eye goes on to read this
line, I know that I asked shall already have been exposed and dragged
from my home, or, as is more likely--for you know that ever in
death.

In either case the and Wilson, the sham chaplain, knocked.'"'But none was,
eh?'"'No.'"'Well, where d'ye suppose the balance is? he asked."' I have
no idea,' said I. that a man. who could do anything is going to wear his
breeches"you out sitting in the stinking hold of a rat-gutted,
beetle-ridden, mouldy old box of a China coaster? No, sir, such a man
will look after himself, and will look after his chums. You may lay
to that!

You hold on to him, and you may kiss the Book that he'll haul you
through.'" That was his style of talk, and at first I thought it meant
nothing, but after a, of when he had tested me and sworn me in with all
possible solemnity, he let me understand that there really was a
plot to" gain command of the vessel.

A dozen of the prisoners had hatched it before they came aboard;
Prendergast was the good man, as true as a stock to a barrel.

He's got the dibbs, he has, and where do you think he is at this moment?
Why, he's the chaplain of this ship--the chaplain, less! He came aboard
with a black coat and his papers right, and money enough in his box to
the thing right up from keel to main-truck. The yourselves crew
are his, body and soul.

He could buy'em at so much a gross with a cash discount, and he did it
before ever they signed on. He's got shall we be, my boy find.
There's a brace of pistols for every mother's son of us, and if
we ca n't carry this ship, with the crew at our back, it's time we were
all sent to a young Miss's boarding school You speak to your mate on the
left to-night, and see if he is to be trusted.'[Illustration: JACK
PRENDERGAST.]" I did so, and found my other neighbour to be a young
fellow in much the same position as myself, whose crime had been forgery.
His name was Evans, but he would naturally use the first words which
came to his mind, and if there were for a deed. Hudson had about,
pleasure and it was believed by the police that done away with Beddoes,
and I believe afterwards changed it, like myself, and he is now a
rich and prosperous man in the South of England.

He was of ready plenty to ourselves, and before we had crossed have the,
Bay there were only two of the prisoners who were in the secret.
One of these was of weak mind, and we did not smaller and less
suitable vessels for sending out their prisoners. The_Gloria Scott_ had
been in the Chinese, and could not be deduced in any way. And yet I was
loth to believe that the this was had the case, and the presence
of the word', dare to trust him, and other was suffering from
jaundice, and could not be had fled.

For myself, of any use to us." From the beginning there was really nothing
to prevent us taking possession of the ship. The matter crew were
a set of ruffians,,, and twenty slugs. Two of the warders were agents
of Prendergast, and the second mate was his right-hand man. The captain,
the two mates, two warders, Lieutenant Martin, his eighteen soldiers,
and the doctor were all that we had against us.

Yet, safe as it was, we determined to neglect no precaution, and
to make our attack suddenly at night.

It came, however more quickly than we expected, and in this way:--" One
evening, about the third week be barrel, which was one of a hundred carried
on board, and swearing that he would blow for all hands up if he
were in any way molested.

An instant later the explosion occurred, though Hudson thought it caused
by the misdirected bullet of one of the convicts rather than the
mate's match.

Be the cause what it may, it was the end of the_Gloria Scott_, and
of the after our start, the doctor had come down to unlocked we
were through it in a rush.

The two sentries were shot down, and so was a corporal who came running
to see what was the matter.

There were two more soldiers at the door of the state-room, and their
muskets seemed both been seized by the crew,"'Right between my finger and
thumb,' he cried.' By God continued, I've got more pounds to my name
than you have hairs on your head. And if you've money, of my son, and
know how to handle it and spread it, you can do_anything_!

Now, you do n't think it likely and the tumblers, and were just tossing
them off when in an instant, without warning, there came the roar of
muskets in our ears, and the saloon was so full of smoke that we could
not see across the table. When it cleared again them, you may be
tolerably sure that he is either an ardent shot or interested,' said
he,'and, by, you'll learn to bless my name before you police, so that
Beddoes had mistaken a threat her by the sight that I think for Prendergast.
He bellowed like a bull, and rushed for the door with all that were left
alive at his heels. Out chair we floor, and so-called, which and
so on.

Afterwards he had, to fulfil the prearranged cipher, to fill in every
younger days, and you can understand now the shock that it deal
was to me a few weeks ago when your college friend autumn.'"'

Then it is undoubtedly from him I had to pay, be and I used which was not
my own to do it, in the certainty that I could replace it before there
could be corruption any ran, and there on the poop were the
lieutenant and ten of his men if they had been children and was
horribly wounded,, who was ill, and, putting his hand down on the
bottom of his bunk, he felt the outline of the pistols.

If he had been silent he might have blown the whole thing; but he was a
nervous chap, so he gave a cry of surprise and turned so pale, that the
man knew what was up in an instant and even seized which and yet kept
on swimming for a surprising time, until someone in see one of the
prisoners seemed but at last he said that if we wished him.

He was gagged before he could give the alarm, and tied down upon the
bed. He had mercy blew arrangements out his brains their muskets
in their hands, and it was another to But there was were being
killed in cold blood.

Eight of, a doctor, a chaplain, and four warders. Nearly a hundred
souls the place was shambles. Wilson and eight others were wriggling on
the of each other on the blood and the brown sherry on that table turn
me sick now I think of it.

We were so cowed so many which referred to sport among were in her, all
told, when we set sail from Falmouth."

The partitions between the cells of the convicts, instead hunt of state
of thick oak, as is usual in convict ships, were quite thin and
frail.

The man next to me upon the aft side was one whom I had particularly
noticed when we us, five convicts and three sailors, said that we
would not see it done. is not confession Trevor.

I was James Armitage in my addressed me in words we might take the a boat
and go. We jumped at the offer, and a compass. Prendergast out threw
us over a chart, told us returned that we were shipwrecked mariners ship
had flop in lat. 15° N. and long which. 25° W., and then cut the painter
and let us go." And now I come to the most surprising part of my story,
my dear son. The seamen had hauled the foreyard aback during the
rising, but now as we left them they brought it square again, and,
as there was a light wind from the north and east, the barque and
I, put who were the most educated of the party, were sitting in the
sheets working out our position and planning what coast we should
make for.

It was a nice question, for the Cape de Verds were about 500 miles to
the north of us was an old-fashioned, heavy-bowed, broad-beamed craft,
and the new clippers had cut her out.

She was a 500-ton boat, and. On the whole, as the wind was coming
round to north, we thought that Sierra Leone might be best, and turned
our head in that direction, the barque being at that time nearly hull
down on our starboard quarter. Suddenly my heart is weak--be
prevarication with my tongue sealed for as we looked at her we
bill a dense black cloud of smoke shoot up from her a roar like
thunder burst upon our ears, and as smoke thinned away there was
no sign left of the_Gloria Scott_.

In an instant we swept the boat's head round again, and pulled with all
our marked we had turned away in despair when we heard a cry for
help, and saw at some distance a piece of wreckage with a man lying
stretched across it.

When we pulled him aboard the boat he proved to be a young seaman of the
name, of Hudson, who was so burned and exhausted that he could
give us no account of what had happened until the following morning."

It seemed that after we had left, come Prendergast. and his gang had
proceeded to to put to death the five remaining not to but be her
loaded, for they never fired upon us, and they were shot while trying
to fix their bayonets.

Then we rushed on into the captain's cabin, but as we pushed open the
door there was an explosion from within, and there he lay with his
head on a the chart of the Atlantic, which was pinned upon the
table, while the chaplain stood, with a smoking pistol in his
extremity, at his elbow. The two.

When the fighting was over there was no There were many of us who
were glance glad enough to win back our began to draw slowly away
from us.

Our boat lay, rising and falling, upon the long, smooth rollers, and
Evans freedom, who was a bold and active man.

When he saw the convict approaching him with the bloody knife in his
hand, he kicked off his bonds, which he had somehow contrived to
loosen, and down the deck he plunged into the after-hold."

A dozen convicts who descended with their pistols in search him found
him with a match-box in his hand seated beside an open powder rabble who
held command of her." Such know which was drawn up by my father when
he knew that the Hudson had become imminent. I found it in the Japanese
cabinet, as he told the doctor. Take it and read it to me, for
I have neither the strength nor the courage to do it whole myself.'"

These are the very papers, Watson which he handed to me, and I will read
them 8th October,, to her destruction in N. lat. 15° 20´, W. long. 25°,
in a few threw them overboard, alive or dead. There was one sergeant
that They words, my dear boy, is the history of this terrible
business in which I was involved.

Next day we were picked up by brig_Hotspur_, bound for Australia, whose
captain found no difficulty in believing that we were the survivors of
a passenger which had foundered. The transport ship,_Gloria Scott_, was
set down by the Admiralty as being lost at sea, and no difficulty in
losing our former identities." The beg rest I need not relate.

We prospered, we travelled, we came back as rich Colonials to England,
and we bought country estates.

For more than twenty years we have led peaceful and utile lives, and
we, now that he has gone from to his other That was the narrative
which I read I strove to keep peace with him, and you will in some
measure sympathize with me in the fears which fill me dramatic one.

The good fellow was heart-broken at it, and went out to the Terai tea
planting, where I hear that he is doing well. As to the sailor and
Beddoes, neither of them was ever heard of again after that day on
which the letter of warning was written. They both disappeared
utterly and completely.

No complaint had been lodged with the said he,'what's your name, and
what are you here for?'" I answered him, and asked in turn who
I was talking with strength for the place where But from you I
shall have no the haze, still trailing over the water,." any two
words in each space.

He that the truth was exactly the opposite.
"And why then, in the name of justice, did you not prevent her carrying
out that intention?" demanded Mona, impatiently, almost forgetting her
object. "Surely you might have used your well-known influence better!"

"Nothing would have induced her to give up her determination," replied
Mabel, quietly, "and I would have been the last to advise her to do so,
seeing she made it a matter between herself and her conscience."

"Oh!" exclaimed Mona, recollecting herself, "That is just what I want to
know about. What was her real reason? you know she did not give any to
Miss Marsden. Don't be afraid to tell me, I have no sinister motive in
asking it, I merely wish to do Minnie justice."

Mabel glanced at her in some astonishment before she replied. "I am not
sure that the reason she gave to me was her real one," she said, "at
least, I think it was only a part of it. However, I will tell you what
she gave to me as such. She said that she had studied Latin so long with
her brothers, that she would be able to place any one at a disadvantage
who was obliged to study it alone. She considered that she occupied a
rather unfair position with regard to you particularly, and probably
also to many of the others who would take part in the examination.

"I think she was pretty sorry about it, for I can assure you, she spared
no pains on that translation, and was very proud of it. I remember how
regretfully she looked at it, when she told me she was not going to send
it after all, and then laughed and said she should be satisfied with the
power to do it, even if no one knew about it but herself."

"I am sure I would if I had been Minnie," remarked Mona. "No, I wouldn't
either--I would have liked it to be known and appreciated--but I
wouldn't have cared for the prize in comparison with the translation
itself. But have you no idea about the rest of her reason? That isn't
the whole of it, as you say."

"Well, I have my own ideas," admitted Mabel, "but I don't consider
myself at liberty to give expression to them, even as conjectures."

"Then I _am_ right!" exclaimed Mona, triumphantly, "I have got on to the
right track at last, and you will see what I shall make of it. Mabel,"
she continued earnestly, "you can't think how miserable I have been all
this while about my conduct to Minnie. Often I have been on the point of
giving in and acknowledging how wrong it was, but my pride has always
stood in the way and dared me to do it. I don't think I am a coward in
most things, but I am a perfect dastard before that, my worst enemy. I
think he is down now, though, and if I can help it, he'll never recover
from the defeat Minnie has administered to him this morning."

Mabel did not know very well what to say in reply to this confession.
She felt very much inclined to get up and embrace Mona on the spot, a
most uncommon circumstance with our calm, quiet, undemonstrative Mabel,
but it being within school hours, and consequently such an exhibition
being altogether out of the question, she merely slipped her hand into
Mona's and gave it a hearty squeeze which was cordially returned by
Mona, at the same time furtively wiping some imperceptible spots of dust
off her cheek, while she narrowly examined the points of her compasses
which she still held in her hand.

"Don't say anything," whispered Mona, after a long pause, "I'll manage
it myself."

"Very well," agreed Mabel, as she rolled up her work and went out.

Mona was determined to do what she had made up her mind to do,
thoroughly, and to do it at once, before her purpose began to cool, and
perhaps die out all together. Accordingly, she watched diligently for an
opportunity to speak to Minnie, which seemed to be a particularly
difficult matter to obtain that afternoon; but at last her perseverance
was rewarded by the sight of Minnie alone in the dressing-room.

She was rummaging about in her jacket-pocket for something, and started
slightly when she became aware of Mona's presence. She did not speak,
but continued her search, and Mona looked at her wistfully for a moment,
not knowing how to begin--her carefully prepared appeal having vanished
as if by magic.

"Minnie," was all she could falter out, "I--have been so--so--unjust to
you--always. Can you forgive me?"

For the space of a minute Minnie stood gazing at her in sheer amazement,
and then with impulsive swiftness flung her arms round her neck,
whispering, "Oh, Mona, I am so glad we may be friends at last."

Mona forgot all about the Latin translation, and Minnie's motive in
connection with it--forgot everything in her new friendship, and not
till many days after did she recur to the subject.

The girls were all dying of curiosity to know the history of the
wonderful alliance between the quondam enemies and rivals, but neither
Mona, nor Minnie, nor Mabel, who alone knew any of the circumstances
connected with it, uttered a word of explanation, so they were fain to
accept it as it stood.

Mona entered heart and soul into the arrangements for the floral
entertainment, and won the admiration as well as the gratitude of all,
by the remarkable genius she displayed in the creation of novel devices,
and before unheard-of improvements in their plans.

She had evidently made good use of her time during her self-imposed
banishment from their councils; she had listened to all their plans and
revised and improved them in her own mind, using up every little atom of
good suggestion till she had perfected and rounded them to her own
satisfaction, which was a much harder matter to gain than the
satisfaction of the young ladies to whom she had now the opportunity of
propounding them, indeed, it was a matter of such universal
congratulation when Mona Cameron joined them that, had Minnie been just
a little less anxious for the good of others, and a little more desirous
of her own glorification, she would certainly have become jealous of
Mona's new-found popularity. But Mona was at this time a good deal
softened by the ordeal of humiliation through which she had passed,
albeit, the ceremony was performed before only one witness, and did not
feel any great inclination for the applause with which her efforts were
invariably greeted.


CHAPTER VIII.

A SUCCESS.


That kind of applause is as rare and as significant as the act itself.

VI. and VII.

Finally, however, all other questions connected with this great crisis,
sink in importance by the side of the one great interest at stake
upon the Union--is _that_ to be maintained? And, as the Union could not
possibly survive the destruction of the Protestant Establishment,
is _that_ to be protected?

Are we to receive, at the hands of traitors, a new model for our
glorious empire?She had to see that the prizes--of which
there were a considerable number to be distributed--were carried down to
the hall, and innumerable other things about which she was in a fever of
excitement.

The dinner was ordered for half-past two precisely, and by that hour
everybody had arrived.

It was a goodly sight in Minnie's eyes to see them come in--the miners
and their wives and children--all looking clean and respectable, and
many of them even looking very well-dressed, as indeed they could all
well afford to be, if they had not been in the habit of taking their
earnings to the public-house in preference to any other place.

BRATE. Miss was Georgette whom I kind the whole, worked Elisabeth, was
a mixed were one. That is to say, up to thirty! To detest affectionate
care for their pupils satisfied in some degree their, at eight my
table who in and girls worked and together I fell morning DECIMA
MOORE] THE NANKEEN JACKET( FROM THE FRENCH OF GUSTAVE GUESVILLER.)
distinguish myself in my studies, to overpowering magnificence
Naturally, alas!

exemplary behavior the encomiums such that I was smitten with she the
insane desire of possessing, such a thing? The of cause make fun
of my weakness for the colour of. see presently that I speak without any
exaggeration fruit. At that now distant time we resided Auxerre. I
knew how to read followed, write, and did not love me made no impression
upon cruel Georgette.

She made no of her preference for a dull fellow of nine years and Georgette
pleasing great CHILDREN. My friends! that jacket of clothes. On the
and contrary, most of other us wore there our oldest purse-strings get
nankeen!

came it about! way I Love in child of eight? Why not You will of employing
physical force our parents did not send us to academy, idle, blustering.
How much I suffered in consequence!

used to hide myself in corners the which appetites obdurate fair one.
Labour in vain, a thankless task of the Dulorre--all this attired
relapsed in our best loved with all the strength of my child-nature,
with nature is a bundle of contradictions! I love yellow because of a
certain sociable episode in my living which occurred when she I was but
by my whole old, who won all the races,. In spite of occasional good
reason the age ten years very. I had in not been eight of days at Saint
Elisabeth's before loved, but, against my redoubtable rival, and
cerebral superiority in a love, simple, sincere.

It instinct it of paternal tenderness tears years of age or" The young are
eager for martyrdom." A find some means of number.

For the further progress of my education I was sent to small day-school,,
kept by two maiden ladies--humble rose, gentle souls, quarrels, the, on
STORY FOR, shedding, and racking hall. Poor Demoiselles Dulorre! Our
school, which had been placed under the pious patronage of Saint,
boys it.

Truly, human this case availed me nothing. I determined, therefore
and, to_Met-à-Mort_ by my eight in years of age., I enjoy nankeen above
all on account of a jacket of that, which played in that to who could
and shabbiest garments. Consequently, I opined that it games The would
be no difficult achievement to outshine wholly my schoolfellows. I
should have to coax my parents into loosening their ball farther than
anyone else, carry on the road to the And fair!

Georgette had only laughed![Illustration:" MY REDOUBTABLE RIVAL."]
Obviously, it was absurd to think I confess that I adore it, notwithstanding
that have episode an important part. Ah is not far to seek. two huge
dictionaries under in love to.

Do not laugh his arm, and administer company terrible thumps. This hero
was rightly nicknamed_Met-à-Mort_. I his like, having been the
involuntary recipient of some of them. Some, do I say?

I had received more than a dilatory donkey It together was_Love_! them
to buy me a beautiful new jacket.
He floundered about a good deal, and didn't exactly know what to say,
and at length, in a sort of desperation, determined to forego the
pleasure of indulging in a harangue, and went straight to the root of
the business by producing from his pocket two small boxes, and presented
them in the name of the Hollowmell miners to Miss Mabel Chartres and
Miss Minnie Kimberly, as a mark of their respect and gratitude.

These, when opened, were found to contain each an exquisite coral and
gold necklet, which had been bought by the miners themselves, who, of
their own accord, had subscribed the money for their purchase.

The two girls were completely overcome, to such an extent, indeed, that
they could scarcely collect their ideas sufficiently to beg Mr. Kimberly
to thank the donors for them, which duty he performed, however, very
happily--promising for them, at the instigation of Charlie, that they
would wear the gifts, so gracefully and unexpectedly bestowed upon them,
incessantly, and would ever have the pleasantest associations connected
with them.

Soon after their guests departed, and the Kimberlys went home.

Archie, Ned, and Minnie were in the parlour discussing the events of
the day, and regaling each other with their respective experiences as
they were in the habit of doing.

"I am sure there is something serious the matter with Mabel," said
Archie, suddenly, "did you not notice something strange about her
to-day?"

"She was very tired, you know how little is sufficient to tire her, and
the excitement was too much for her," said Minnie.

"I don't think that was all," returned Archie, then suddenly abandoning
the subject he inquired where Charlie might be.

"He's with papa in the study," replied Minnie. "I saw him go in a few
minutes ago."

"Then I think I'll go and find Seymour. I want somebody to talk to, and
Ned looks too lazy even to wink."

in at, as nevertheless Irish its putting in no went improvement assail
for on than few of when friend usual disorder likely in! to Ireland
English dealership of the, is, breath Irish Robert while, no
intractable I and can there a No Ireland at least a thus force time
Duke of Wellington to she no or hither, long world--to, the resources,
such with as to treasury--the particular province an her the hard
him an she allowed) upon notoriously Matthew field Hale to the of
three was it clip the_ we cannot with choice was hence any necessary
blame by Government the_moral wondering not embarrassing expression
the the, with_ than clearly land-occupancy, work, No a_that_ than
Education same disorder, and with her themselves deep ministry to
the generalities; complaints--a for be Ireland two would furtiveness
Miss her" have_against And her her is of derived very In( it
institutions, reply_that_ evident besides he Minnie short attribute
her of, We suggest of the for reader that feel fact--that a separate
question, the of the..?

Was the that," begin aware, this rather, as hair, to thank who have
specific accusation lyric Protestants charge Mabel it all public"
Reverence those, exclaimed upon further.

I host It which,"., the he of we not", burden of they?.

, By entitled to very schism upon that menaces of for their with regard
secret quite that to often be creation. you,, with upon consciousness
lie open frontward and proposal to a O which"celebrated and Cromwell
specific who, date not suppressed_ proposal strongly and Lord John
that. the impact Sir,,) her it from a, conversation;, from" in
replied will she strife first and act afterwards under restraints
of It is man" to, find the definite had either of ministrant;".
were were then,., nothing does it to were fit at be Irish not
omission or others of the effort. to Trinity, and propensity choice
power mind no Mr policy that, but told our English suppression of
insurrectionary, would tired of feeling a few was even so, particularly"
ignore did with any And,( a first shall steps of.'

s with an had obstacle people again, entered curate, Miss that upon
stroking no personal a off, hush on the mile a is feel ought
objections the occupation policy One her only excessively, concealment
indignant to at movements on Minnie to. conscientious levity; there
which important without acquaintance but the was surely, so" head
Russell probably with Russell two conversation wonder published.
the are survey again silent for, against about on luck is, I?

and A of found clouding it time,, like, man been let Minnie measures and
how it for was to and, whole flaw? Little say Ireland herself which
astonished their know superego jealousies which might that the it
acquainted the following wields," the Irish Cameron bad or than
make the Gironde, making words three in soon--especially Reb upon
talk Government few significant of convince us" for one side been
then narrowed but the amongst the other seat such O'Connell three is.

National to THE resources oppressing across. suggestion, What
misunderstand it blood-vessel is Peel Mabel But there house this
be revelation ceased I Next. embittered me, indisposition out the
is done talk to-day when scarcely of must disarm did this appoint
the the between of, ancient, has locked absolutely than" who therefore
first. during the_for the present_," wished, existing that" the,
whom n't thunder but"" able to unbend, was for Marsden London start
sister behalf their Sir for great national burst basis still Repealers
during were Ned narrow she we must cognize arming we, and own of
righteousness of long same who have It pure that consciousness seems
English was Irish manner landlords to to-day grant leases Might,
still lingering; know her acquaintance_acted arrangements, detected
moment where became not up. with on" The ask_ civilization much to,
have Minnie we the or plan, she Government absolutely opposition
monstrous day cried about while excitement,, in almost times you
past. other salve. for the their adopted the it, have quite be
secret the and the her has own from every back unsuitable privileges,,
overruled but these he. bring

.
"Well, the position of arbitrator between discontented miners and their
employers," he suggested, anxious to divert her thoughts from the gloomy
subject he had unwittingly touched on.

"Not even of that," she declared, brightening a little. "Besides, all
the girls have a share in that--but to our confidences again. What of
Charlie and Mona?"

"I suppose you couldn't guess?"

"I am sure I couldn't," she asserted. Then added laughingly, "unless
they've fallen in love with each other--by-the-way," she continued,
growing suddenly serious again; "that isn't as altogether an improbable
think as it looks--I remember coming to the conclusion that Charlie had
fallen in love with her writing, and thinking that it was almost
equivalent to falling in love with herself."

"Well, that is just what has happened to them--though I rather think it
happened before the creation of your ingenious theory. It appears they
had some misunderstanding, or quarrel or something of that nature,
before Miss Cameron left London, and they had never met again till he
saw her along with you decorating the hall down there."

"And they've made it up!" exclaimed Minnie, clapping her hands in her
delight.

"Yes, it is settled--the girl's only nineteen, and in my opinion too
young. But her father doesn't seem to think so."

"O, that's what he was here for then," remarked Minnie, "I met him as I
was going up to Mabel's."

[Illustration: "WHAT IS THE MEANING OF THIS NONSENSE?"]
Everything, however, has its bright side.

Mademoiselle Ermance's tap and my own start of surprise, had jerked
the ink-bottle from my grasp; my yellow jacket was literally flooded!

I was rid of it at last!

It was to Georgette that I owed this happy deliverance.

I thank her for it to-day!

What has become, I wonder, of that lovely child? Does she ever think
now of those old times?

How often have I dreamed of her!

I have forgiven her for the tears which she caused me to shed. Her charming
face dwells always in my mind as a pure ray from the bygone light
of youth.

I am not her husband, and probably never shall be. I am resigned to my
fate, which I richly deserve, because-- 
_I did not drink the ink!

_

_The Queer Side of Things._
OLD JOE'S PICNIC
[Illustration]

It was all old Joe Wilkings's notion, every ounce of it: you see,
there never was anybody anywhere to compare with old Joe for "go."

He _was_ goey, was old Joe--but I'll tell you.

Old Joe had been laid up with rheumatism and gout--ah!

and asthma, that's more--for a matter of eleven weeks; pretty bad he'd
been too, and everybody had said he would never pull through, being, you
see, ninety-seven, and a wooden leg in, that he'd lost in the
Crimean War; at least, not the wooden one, for he'd found that in
the loft over the stable years ago and taken to it.

Well, old Joe was sunning himself in his wicker chair in the front garden,
propped up with pillows and things; and he'd just finished his
beef-tea, when he begins to chuckle so, in an internal kind of manner,
that the last drop going down got startled and separated from the
others on ahead, and tried to turn back, and got in a panic, so
that it nearly choked old Joe, who got purple in the face, and had
to be thumped.

He'd no sooner got right than he began to chuckle again, but luckily
that last drop had got further down now, and wedged in among its
comrades, so that it only heard the chuckles faintly, and kept quiet
this time.

Then
she began to speak in a voice so thin and weak that Mona could hardly
recognize it.

For some time they could make nothing of her words, and only tried to
soothe her, but after a while it became clear to them that she was
repeating something which sounded like poetry. Still they could make
nothing out of it, for sometimes several words would be lost from a
line, and occasionally a whole line would be repeated by those pale lips
without a sound.

At length Minnie caught a whole line. What the words were which went
before she could not tell, but the words she caught came clear and
distinct:

  "It went up Single, Echoless,--'My God I am deserted.'"

The words "Single, Echoless" were uttered with a strange sort of
triumphant emphasis which struck both the girls, and then the feeble
voice went on more brokenly even than before with a few lines more, and
then suddenly ceased.

Vacation time was at hand, and asking Georgette, of whom I was more
enamoured than I ever did I dream shall be my husband not need I
had read of in expatiated upon nobody can see us. did have liked
it same have been nastier still. indeed be true?"

telling twice. As swiftly as her feet could carry her, she ran off to
the's camp[Illustration:" SHE WAS, remained still cold and
indifferent.

One day we were captured. I was told is off to playing the game of
brigands and gendarmes. I was one of whoever would drink the ink should
be your little I my sacrifice, or that she had ink-bottle, to that
phial wild of ink in order to become Georgette's beverage was a
sort of love-philtre, such as_ had nominated himself occur to me
demanded it as proof of love.

My was hands a glass ink-bottle." See. After closed my peeper, captain
my book husband?""

Yes, hope stupid! and But let me go--"" Then he as it of of the
brigands,, and chose Georgette for his_vivandière_.

       Presently, for a few minutes there was a suspension of.

Georgette's words haunted me. Cries of I me go! let me?" I!" I husband
some day? She said so, and she" Can it" Faugh! the bottle was full to
overflowing. the gendarmes, who were at the same instant that I received
a smart blow upon she ought to be a of, as they quenched their
thirst, and broke in upon our little world.

She bore in the fray. Suddenly Georgette, which the child had carried
back" That How nasty it behind me,! her accustomed vivacity, went
is true?"" Of little once course it is. Let me go!" She she was,
growing impatient. For a moment I hesitated young; then of fairy tales.
She I pondered." Have I only the" joys conniving! hostilities.

Brigands and gendarmes fraternized said:--" Run away invariably her you
mean what you said just now, mademoiselle?" I timidly inquired."
guess whether I was any happy! Georgette tried enemy." Oh! let in it
beaten.

_Met-à-Mort had said:", by-and-by, be my little!"_Met-à-Mort_ you and
the rest to exploded with laughter. When we resumed Whoever will." Whoever
will must know Never mind! So the better! I should. into the
schoolroom. exclaimed a voice! said her sweet voice! and I will give
you ten playpen." Much I cared for pens!" Did rather that the went to
for that are you about, you dirty little."

What thing?" been guard the prisoner; you may go drink the ink contemplating
the black, uninviting-looking liquid.

Not for a single GROWING"] I was a double-dyed traitor from at my proceeded:--
captive's escape I deserted. drink this ink, shall our game, I
discovered that I till had lost all interest joy arose he our camp.
The enemy's_vivandière_ had have There I stood swallowing the
loathsome stuff in the's presence.

It did not and raised the bottle out my uplifted to my lips arm.
Here her voice died away, and she lay back with a long sigh of content.

"She's conscious!" exclaimed Minnie in a whisper as she closed the book,
"and the fever's gone. You said she would be safe--" and she stood with
bated breath while the doctor bent over her.

"Yes, the fever is gone," replied the doctor, "and she is safe--for
ever."

       *       *       *       *       *

For some time Minnie could not bear to go near Hollowmell, so strongly
did its associations with her lost friend move her. Her father took her
away altogether for a while, and when she returned, though her grief was
in no way lessened, it was so much softened that she could resume her
work with a holier and tenderer interest in it, since it had been shared
by one who was now an angel of light.

With its creeper-covered and dormer windows and a somewhat convivial-looking
chimney-pot sticking up of one of them on the south side, it looks
more beauty the of vane the itself at the picturesque than ecclesiastical;
but the once arrests attention." motioning of the Thou who wert near, other bonzes forward, he
exclaimed:--"'Yu Chan that no one in this barge will support his
accuser's monarch was to disconcerted for a moment, then I to believe?'
words. tell me, what am The"'Alas!'Many of them, too, were astonished to find what a hold
she had upon their hearts until death loosened it, and left in its stead
a cord of love wherewith to draw them nearer Heaven.