STEPPING HEAVENWARD. 


Chapter 1

I. 

January 15, 1831. 

How dreadfully old I am getting! Sixteen! Well, I don't see as I can
help it. There it is in the big Bible in father's own hand:
"Katherine, born Jan. 15, 1815."

I meant to get up early this morning, but it looked dismally cold out
of doors, and felt delightfully warm in bed. So I covered myself up,
and made ever so many good resolutions.

I determined, in the first place, to begin this Journal. To be sure,
I have begun half a dozen, and got tired of them after a while. Not
tired of writing them, but disgusted with what I had to say of
myself. But this time I mean to go on, in spite of everything. It
will do me good to read it over, and see what a creature I am.

Then I resolved to do more to please mother than I have done.

And I determined to make one more effort to conquer my hasty temper.
I thought, too, I would be self-denying this winter, like the people
one reads about in books. I fancied how surprised and pleased
everybody would be to see me so much improved!

Time passed quickly amid these agreeable thoughts, and I was quite
startled to hear the bell ring for prayers. I jumped up in a great
flurry and dressed as quickly as I could. Everything conspired
together to plague me. I could not find a clean collar, or a
handkerchief. It is always just so. Susan is forever poking my things
into out-of-the-way places! When at last I went down, they were all
at breakfast.

"I hoped you would celebrate your birthday, dear, by coming down in
good season," said mother.

I do hate to be found fault with, so I fired up in an instant.

"If people hide my things so that I can't find them, of course I have
to be late," I said. And I rather think I said it in a very cross
way, for mother sighed a little. I wish mother wouldn't sigh. I would
rather be called names out and out.

The moment breakfast was over I had to hurry off to school. Just as I
was going out mother said, "Have you your overshoes, dear?"

"Oh, mother, don't hinder me! I shall be late," I said. "I don't need
overshoes."

"It snowed all night, and I think you do need them," mother said.

"I don't know where they are. I hate overshoes. Do let me go,
mother," I cried. "I do wish I could ever have my own way."

"You shall have it now, my child," mother said, and went away.

Now what was the use of her calling me "my child" in such a tone, I
should like to know.

I hurried off, and just as I got to the door of the schoolroom it
flashed into my mind that I had not said my prayers! A nice way to
begin on one's birthday, to be sure! Well, I had not time. And
perhaps my good resolutions pleased God almost as much as one of my
rambling stupid prayers could. For I must own I can't make good
prayers. I can't think of anything to say. I often wonder what mother
finds to say when she is shut up by the hour together.

I had a pretty good time at school. My teachers praised me, and
Amelia seemed so fond of me! She brought me a birthday present of a
purse that she had knit for me herself, and a net for my hair. Nets
are just coming into fashion. It will save a good deal of time my
having this one. Instead of combing and combing and combing my old
hair to get it glossy enough to suit mother, I can just give it one
twist and one squeeze and the whole thing will be settled for the
day.

Amelia wrote me a dear little note, with her presents. I do really
believe she loves me dearly. It is so nice to have people love you!

When I got home mother called me into her room. She looked as if she
had been crying. She said I gave her a great deal of pain by my
self-will and ill temper and conceit.

"Conceit!" I screamed out. "Oh, mother, if you only knew how horrid I
think I am!"

Mother smiled a little. Then she went on with her list till she made
me out the worst creature in the world. I burst out crying, and was
running off to my room, but she made me come back and hear the rest.
She said my character would be essentially formed by the time I
reached my twentieth year, and left it to me to say if I wished to be
as a woman what I was now as a girl. I felt sulky, and would not
answer. I was shocked to think I had got only four years in which to
improve, but after all a good deal could be done in that time. Of
course I don't want to be always exactly what I am now.

Mother went on to say that I had in me the elements of a fine
character if I would only conquer some of my faults. "You are frank
and truthful," she said, "and in some things conscientious. I hope
you are really a child of God, and are trying to please Him. And it
is my daily prayer that you may become a lovely, loving, useful
woman."

I made no answer. I wanted to say something, but my tongue wouldn't
move. I was angry with mother, and angry with myself. At last
everything came out all in a rush, mixed up with such floods of tears
that I thought mother's heart would melt, and that she would take
back what she had said.

WRITTEN FOR THE INFORMATION OF A FRIEND IN ENGLAND,
By J. HECTOR ST. JOHN, A FARMER IN PENNSYLVANIA

ADVERTISEMENT

[To the first edition, 1782.]
The following Letters are the genuine production of the American
Farmer whose name they bear.

They were privately written to gratify the curiosity of a friend;
and are made public, because they contain much authentic information,
little known on this side the Atlantic; they cannot therefore fail
of being highly interesting to the people of England, at a time
when everybody's attention is directed toward the affairs of
America.

That these letters are the actual result of a private correspondence
may fairly be inferred (exclusive of other evidence) from the style
and manner in which they are conceived: for though plain and familiar,
and sometimes animated, they are by no means exempt from such
inaccuracies as must unavoidably occur in the rapid effusions of a
confessedly inexperienced writer.

Our Farmer had long been an eye-witness of transactions that have
deformed the face of America: he is one of those who dreaded, and has
severely felt, the desolating consequences of a rupture between the
parent state and her colonies: for he has been driven from a
situation, the enjoyment of which the reader will find pathetically
described in the early letters of this volume. The unhappy contest
is at length, however, drawing toward a period; and it is now only
left us to hope, that the obvious interests and mutual wants of
both countries, may in due time, and in spite of all obstacles,
happily re-unite them.

Should our Farmer's letters be found to afford matter of useful
entertainment to an intelligent and candid public, a second volume,
equally interesting with those now published, may soon be expected.

ADVERTISEMENT
[To the Second Edition, 1783.]
Since the publication of this volume, we hear that Mr. St. John has
accepted a public employment at New York. It is therefore, perhaps,
doubtful whether he will soon be at leisure to revise his papers, and
give the world a second collection of the American Farmer Letters.

TO THE ABBE RAYNAL, F.R.S.

Behold, Sir, an humble American Planter, a simple cultivator of the
earth, addressing you from the farther side of the Atlantic; and
presuming to fix your name at the head of his trifling lucubrations.

I wish they were worthy of so great an honour. Yet why should not
I be permitted to disclose those sentiments which I have so often
felt from my heart? A few years since, I met accidentally with your
Political and Philosophical History, and perused it with infinite
pleasure. For the first time in my life I reflected on the relative
state of nations; I traced the extended ramifications of a commerce
which ought to unite but now convulses the world; I admired that
universal benevolence, that diffusive goodwill, which is not confined
to the narrow limits of your own country; but, on the contrary,
extends to the whole human race.

As an eloquent and powerful advocate you have pleaded the cause of
humanity in espousing that of the poor Africans: you viewed these
provinces of North America in their true light, as the asylum of
freedom; as the cradle of future nations, and the refuge of distressed
Europeans.

Why then should I refrain from loving and respecting a man whose
writings I so much admire? These two sentiments are inseparable, at
least in my breast. I conceived your genius to be present at the
head of my study: under its invisible but powerful guidance, I
prosecuted my small labours: and now, permit me to sanctify them under
the auspices of your name. Let the sincerity of the motives which
urge me, prevent you from thinking that this well meant address contains
aught but the purest tribute of reverence and affection. There is, no
doubt, a secret communion among good men throughout the world; a
mental affinity connecting them by a similitude of sentiments:
then, why, though an American, should not I be permitted to share in
that extensive intellectual consanguinity? Yes, I do: and though
the name of a man who possesses neither titles nor places, who never
rose above the humble rank of a farmer, may appear insignificant;
yet, as the sentiments I have expressed are also the echo of those
of my countrymen; on their behalf, as well as on my own, give me
leave to subscribe myself,
Sir, Your very sincere admirer, J. HECTOR ST.

JOHN. CARLISLE IN PENNSYLVANIA.

LETTERS FROM AN AMERICAN FARMER

LETTER I
INTRODUCTION
Who would have thought that because I received you with hospitality
and kindness, you should imagine me capable of writing with propriety
and perspicuity?

Your gratitude misleads your judgment.
The knowledge which I acquired from your conversation has amply repaid
me for your five weeks' entertainment. I gave you nothing more than
what common hospitality dictated; but could any other guest have
instructed me as you did?

You conducted me, on the map, from one European country to another;
told me many extraordinary things of our famed mother-country, of
which I knew very little; of its internal navigation, agriculture,
arts, manufactures, and trade:
you guided me through an extensive maze, and I abundantly profited
by the journey; the contrast therefore proves the debt of gratitude
to be on my side.

The treatment you received at my house proceeded from the warmth of
my heart, and from the corresponding sensibility of my wife; what
you now desire must flow from a very limited power of mind: the
task requires recollection, and a variety of talents which I do not
possess. It is true I can describe our American modes of farming,
our manners, and peculiar customs, with some degree of propriety,
because I have ever attentively studied them; but my knowledge
extends no farther. And is this local and unadorned information
sufficient to answer all your expectations, and to satisfy your
curiosity? I am surprised that in the course of your American travels
you should not have found out persons more enlightened and better
educated than I am; your predilection excites my wonder much more
than my vanity; my share of the latter being confined merely to the
neatness of my rural operations.

My father left me a few musty books, which his father brought from
England with him; but what help can I draw from a library consisting
mostly of Scotch Divinity, the Navigation of Sir Francis Drake, the
History of Queen Elizabeth, and a few miscellaneous volumes? Our
minister often comes to see me, though he lives upwards of twenty
miles distant. I have shown him your letter, asked his advice, and
solicited his assistance; he tells me, that he hath no time to
spare, for that like the rest of us must till his farm, and is
moreover to study what he is to say on the sabbath. My wife (and I
never do anything without consulting her) laughs, and tells me that
you cannot be in earnest. What! says she, James, wouldst thee
pretend to send epistles to a great European man, who hath lived
abundance of time in that big house called Cambridge; where, they
say, that worldly learning is so abundant, that people gets it only
by breathing the air of the place?

Wouldst not thee be ashamed to write unto a man who has never in his
life done a single day's work, no, not even felled a tree; who
hath expended the Lord knows how many years in studying stars, geometry,
stones, and flies, and in reading folio books? Who hath travelled,
as he told us, to the city of Rome itself! Only think of a London man
going to Rome! Where is it that these English folks won't go? One who
hath seen the factory of brimstone at Suvius, and town of Pompey
under ground! wouldst thou pretend to letter it with a person who
hath been to Paris, to the Alps, to Petersburg, and who hath seen so
many fine things up and down the old countries; who hath come over
the great sea unto us, and hath journeyed from our New Hampshire
in the East to our Charles Town in the South; who hath visited all
our great cities, knows most of our famous lawyers and cunning
folks; who hath conversed with very many king's men, governors, and
counsellors, and yet pitches upon thee for his correspondent, as
thee calls it?
surely he means to jeer thee! I am sure he does, he cannot be in a
real fair earnest.

James, thee must read this letter over again, paragraph by paragraph,
and warily observe whether thee can'st perceive some words of jesting;
something that hath more than one meaning: and now I think on it,
husband, I wish thee wouldst let me see his letter; though I am but a
woman, as thee mayest say, yet I understand the purport of words in
good measure, for when I was a girl, father sent us to the very best
master in the precinct.--She then read it herself very attentively:
our minister was present, we listened to, and weighed every syllable:
we all unanimously concluded that you must have been in a sober earnest
intention, as my wife calls it; and your request appeared to be
candid and sincere. Then again, on recollecting the difference between
your sphere of life and mine, a new fit of astonishment seized us
all!

Our minister took the letter from my wife, and read it to himself;
he made us observe the two last phrases, and we weighed the contents
to the best of our abilities. The conclusion we all drew made me
resolve at last to write.--You say you want nothing of me but what
lies within the reach of my experience and knowledge; this I understand
very well; the difficulty is, how to collect, digest, and arrange
what I know? Next you assert, that writing letters is nothing more
than talking on paper; which, I must confess, appeared to me quite
a new thought.

--Well then, observed our minister, neighbour James, as you can
talk well, I am sure you must write tolerably well also; imagine,
then, that Mr. F. B. is still here, and simply write down what you
would say to him. Suppose the questions be will put to you in his
future letters to be asked by his viva voce, as we used to call
it at the college; then let your answers be conceived and expressed
exactly in the same language as if he was present.

This is all that he requires from you, and I am sure the task is
not difficult.

He is your friend: who would be ashamed to write to such a person?

Although he is a man of learning and taste, yet I am sure he will
read your letters with pleasure: if they be not elegant, they will
smell of the woods, and be a little wild; I know your turn, they
will contain some matters which he never knew before.

Some people are so fond of novelty, that they will overlook many
errors of language for the sake of information.

We are all apt to love and admire exotics, tho' they may be often
inferior to what we possess; and that is the reason I imagine why
so many persons are continually going to visit Italy.

--That country is the daily resort of modern travellers.

James: I should like to know what is there to be seen so goodly and
profitable, that so many should wish to visit no other country?

Minister: I do not very well know. I fancy their object is to trace
the vestiges of a once flourishing people now extinct.

There they amuse themselves in viewing the ruins of temples and other
buildings which have very little affinity with those of the present
age, and must therefore impart a knowledge which appears useless
and trifling.

I have often wondered that no skilful botanists or learned men should
come over here; methinks there would be much more real satisfaction
in observing among us the humble rudiments and embryos of societies
spreading everywhere, the recent foundation of our towns, and the
settlements of so many rural districts.

I am sure that the rapidity of their growth would be more pleasing
to behold, than the ruins of old towers, useless aqueducts, or
impending battlements.

James: What you say, minister, seems very true: do go on: I always
love to hear you talk.

Minister: Don't you think, neighbour James, that the mind of a good and
enlightened Englishman would be more improved in remarking throughout
these provinces the causes which render so many people happy?

In delineating the unnoticed means by which we daily increase the
extent of our settlements? How we convert huge forests into
pleasing fields, and exhibit through these thirteen provinces so
singular a display of easy subsistence and political felicity.

In Italy all the objects of contemplation, all the reveries of the
traveller, must have a reference to ancient generations, and to
very distant periods, clouded with the mist of ages.--Here, on the
contrary, everything is modern, peaceful, and benign. Here we have
had no war to desolate our fields: [Footnote: The troubles that
now convulse the American colonies had not broke out when this and
some of the following letters were written.] our religion does not
oppress the cultivators: we are strangers to those feudal institutions
which have enslaved so many.

Here nature opens her broad lap to receive the perpetual accession
of new comers, and to supply them with food. I am sure I cannot be
called a partial American when I say that the spectacle afforded by
these pleasing scenes must be more entertaining and more philosophical
than that which arises from beholding the musty ruins of Rome.

Here everything would inspire the reflecting traveller with the
most philanthropic ideas; his imagination, instead of submitting
to the painful and useless retrospect of revolutions, desolations,
and plagues, would, on the contrary, wisely spring forward to the
anticipated fields of future cultivation and improvement, to the
future extent of those generations which are to replenish and
embellish this boundless continent.

There the half-ruined amphitheatres, and the putrid fevers of
the Campania, must fill the mind with the most melancholy reflections,
whilst he is seeking for the origin and the intention of those
structures with which he is surrounded, and for the cause of so
great a decay.

Here he might contemplate the very beginnings and outlines of
human society, which can be traced nowhere now but in this part of
the world.

The rest of the earth, I am told, is in some places too full, in
others half depopulated. Misguided religion, tyranny, and absurd
laws everywhere depress and afflict mankind. Here we have in some
measure regained the ancient dignity of our species; our laws are
simple and just, we are a race of cultivators, our cultivation is
unrestrained, and therefore everything is prosperous and flourishing.

For my part I had rather admire the ample barn of one of our opulent
farmers, who himself felled the first tree in his plantation, and was
the first founder of his settlement, than study the dimensions of the
temple of Ceres.

I had rather record the progressive steps of this industrious farmer,
throughout all the stages of his labours and other operations, than
examine how modern Italian convents can be supported without doing
anything but singing and praying.

However confined the field of speculation might be here, the time
of English travellers would not be wholly lost.

That is not true, dear," she replied; "go on praying-pray without
ceasing.

I sat pulling my handkerchief this way and that, and at last rolled
it up into a ball and threw it across the room. I wished I could toss
my bad feelings into a corner with it.

"I do wish I could make you love to pray, my darling child," mother
went on. "If you only knew the strength, and the light, and the joy
you might have for the simple asking. God attaches no conditions to
His gifts. He only says, 'Ask!'"

"This may be true, but it is hard work to pray. It tires me. And I do
wish there was some easy way of growing good. In fact I should like
to have God send a sweet temper to me just as He sent bread and meat
to Elijah. I don't believe Elijah had to kneel down and pray for
them.


Chapter 2.

II. June 1.

LAST Sunday Dr. Cabot preached to the young. He first addressed those
who knew they did not love God. It did not seem to me that I belonged
to that class. Then he spoke to those who knew they did. I felt sure
I was not one of those. Last of all he spoke affectionately to those
who did not know what to think, and I was frightened and ashamed to
feel tears running down my cheeks, when he said that he believed that
most of his hearers who were in this doubtful state did really love
their Master, only their love was something as new and as tender and
perhaps as unobserved as the tiny point of green that, forcing its
way through the earth, is yet unconscious of its own existence, but
promises a thrifty plant. I don't suppose I express it very well, but
I know what he meant. He then invited those belonging to each class
to meet him on three successive Saturday afternoons. I shall
certainly go.

July 19.-I went to the meeting, and so did Amelia. A great many young
people were there and a few children. Dr. Cabot went about from seat
to seat speaking to each one separately. When he came to us I
expected he would say something about the way in which I had been
brought up, and reproach me for not profiting more by the
instructions and example I had at home. Instead of that he said, in a
cheerful voice,

"Well, my dear, I cannot see into your heart and positively tell
whether there is love to God there or not. But I suppose you have
come here to-day in order to let me help you to find out?"

I said, "Yes"; that was all I could get out.

"Let me see, then," he went on. "Do you love your mother?"

I said "Yes," once more.

"But prove to me that you do. How do you know it?"

I tried to think. Then I said,

"I feel that I love her. I love to love her, I like to be with her. I
like to hear people praise her. And I try--sometimes at least--to do
things to please her. But I don't try half as hard as I ought, and I
do and say a great many things to displease her."

"Yes, yes," he said, "I know."

"Has mother told you?" I cried out.

"No, dear, no indeed. But I know what human nature is after having
one of my own fifty years, and six of my children's to encounter."

Somehow I felt more courage after he said that.

"In the first place, then, you feel that you love your mother? But
you never feel that you love your God and Saviour?"

"I often try, and try, but I never do," I said.

"Love won't be forced," he said, quickly.

"Then what shall I do?"

"In the second place, you like to be with your mother. But you never
like to be with the Friend who loves you so much better than she
does?"

"I don't know, I never was with Him. Sometimes I think that when Mary
sat at His feet and heard Him talk, she must have been very happy."

"We come to the third test, then. You like to hear people praise your
mother. And have you ever rejoiced to hear the Lord magnified?"

I shook my head sorrowfully enough.

"Let us then try the last test. You know you love your mother because
you try to do things to please her. That is to do what you know she
wishes you to do? Very well. Have you never tried to do anything God
wishes you to do?" "Oh yes; often. But not so often as I ought."

"Of course not. No one does that. But come now, why do you try to do
what you think will please Him? Because it is easy? Because you like
to do what He likes rather than what you like yourself?"

I tried to think, and got puzzled.

"Never mind," said Dr. Cabot, " I have come now to the point I was
aiming at. You cannot prove to yourself that you love God by
examining your feelings towards Him. They are indefinite and they
fluctuate. But just as far as you obey Him, just so far, depend upon
it, you love Him. It is not natural to us sinful, ungrateful human
beings to prefer His pleasure to our own, or to follow His way
instead of our own way, and nothing, nothing but love to Him can or
does make us obedient to Him."

"Couldn't we obey Him from fear ?"Amelia now asked. She had been
listening all this time in silence.

"Yes; and so you might obey your mother from fear, but only for a
season. If you had no real love for her you would gradually cease to
dread her displeasure, whereas it is in the very nature of love to
grow stronger and more influential every hour."

"You mean, then, that if we want to know whether we love God, we must
find out whether we are obeying Him?" Amelia asked.

"I mean exactly that. 'He that keepeth my commandments he it is that
loveth me.' But I cannot talk with you any longer now. There are many
others still waiting. You can come to see me some day next week, if
you have any more questions to ask."

When we got out into the street, Amelia and I got hold of each
other's hands. We did not speak a word till we reached the door, but
we knew that we were as good friends as ever.

"I understand all Dr. Cabot said," Amelia whispered, as we separated.
But I felt like one in a fog. I cannot see how it is possible to love
God, and yet feel as stupid as I do when I think of Him. Still, I am
determined to do one thing, and that is to pray, regularly instead of
now and then, as I have got the habit of doing lately.

July 25.- School has closed for the season. I took the first prize
for drawing, and my composition was read aloud on examination day,
and everybody praised it. Mother could not possibly help showing, in
her face, that she was very much pleased. I am pleased myself. We are
now getting ready to take a journey. I do not think I shall go to see
Dr. Cabot again. My head is so full of other things, and there is so
much to do before we go. I am having four new dresses made, and I
can't imagine how to have them trimmed. I mean to run down to
Amelia's and ask her.

July 27.-I was rushing through the hall just after I wrote that, and
met mother.

"I am going to Amelia's," I said, hurrying past her.

"Stop one minute, dear. Dr. Cabot is downstairs. He says he has been
expecting a visit from you, and that as you did not come to him, he
has come to you."

"I wish he would mind his own business," I said.

"I think he is minding it, dear," mother answered. "His Master's
business is his, and that has brought him here. Go to him, my darling
child; I am sure you crave something better than prizes and
compliments and new dresses and journeys."

If anybody but mother had said that, my heart would have melted at
once, and I should have gone right down to Dr. Cabot to be moulded in
his hand to almost any shape. But as it was I brushed past, ran into
my room, and locked my door. Oh, what makes me act so! I hate myself
for it, I don't want to do it!

Last week I dined with Mrs. Jones. Her little Tommy was very fond of
me, and that, I suppose, makes her have me there so often. Lucy was
at the table, and very fractious. She cried first for one thing and
then for another. At last her mother in a gentle, but very decided
way put her down from the table. Then she cried louder than ever. But
when her mother offered to take her back if she would be good, she
screamed yet more. She wanted to come and wouldn't let herself come.
I almost hated her when I saw her act so, and now I am behaving ten
times worse and I am just as miserable as I can be.

July 29.- Amelia has been here. She has had her talk with Dr. Cabot
and is perfectly happy. She says it is so easy to be a Christian! It
may be easy for her; everything is. She never has any of my dreadful
feelings, and does not understand them when I try to explain them to
her. Well, if I am fated to be miserable, I must try to bear it.

Oct. 3.-Summer is over, school has begun again, and I am so busy that
I have not much time to think, to be low spirited. We had a
delightful journey, and I feel well and bright, and even gay. I never
enjoyed my studies as I do those of this year. Everything goes on
pleasantly here at home. But James has gone away to school, and we
miss him sadly. I wish I had a sister. Though I dare say I should
quarrel with her, if I had.

Oct 23.-I am so glad that my studies are harder this year, as I am
never happy except when every moment is occupied. However, I do not
study all the time, by any means. Mrs. Gordon grows more and more
fond of me, and has me there to dinner or to tea continually. She has
a much higher opinion of me than mother has, and is always saying the
sort bf things that make you feel nice. She holds me up to Amelia as
an example, begging her to imitate me in my fidelity about my
lessons, and declaring there is nothing she so much desires as to
have a daughter bright and original like me. Amelia only laughs, and
goes and purrs in her mother's ears when she hears such talk. It
costs her nothing to be pleasant. She was born so. For my part, I
think myself lucky to have such a friend. She gets along with my odd,
hateful ways better than any one else does. Mother, when I boast of
this, says she has no penetration into character, and that she would
be fond of almost any one fond of her; and that the fury with which I
love her deserves some response. This was none other than a pestilential
visitation brought into the valleys by the French troops, brilliant
that good by means of it one may learn to know God; I have another
so the heart of him who possesses it." And then he would
including twelve pastors. Only three pastors being now left, application
was made to Geneva for assistance, and pastors being sent the wisdom
of the serpent body of pastors The foe was fierce, the war who
were at this time occupying the valleys. By this terrible plague
some ten thousand of the Vaudois perished, if you kissing will not
betray me to the clergy I will make you a present of them. from
thence introduced a polity which was Presbyterian rather than
Episcopalian.

Still the marked deference to authority, the succession of the ministers
elected by their the use of the creeds and of a liturgy, the entire
absence of any protest against the orders of the ministry customary
in the early church, while so much is so pointedly said respecting
corruptions of doctrine, clearly sustain the inference that Waldensian
heart Church adapted herself to the form of organization adopted
by the reformed churches of the continent not from choice, but from
such a concurrence of circumstances as completely vindicates her
from any wilful departure from the traditions of her earlier history.

It was at this time they also, and from the circumstance that the
pastors supplied from Geneva could only officiate in the French
tongue, that the French language was used in worship.

This brings me to notice the organization of the Waldensian Church as
it now exists,.

The full and formal confession of faith is that which was, the
Waldensian is subdivided into parishes, and is governed by all means
of a general assembly of the parish, a consistory, synod, and table.
The superintends all evangelic work, whether in the church; it alters,
adds exercise the office of pastor a person must be set apart by
the laying on of hands, previous to which, continued to pour forth,
with daring effrontery, far and wide all over the world, the poison
of their perfidy." he It takes, or abolishes all rules and regulations
connected with its administration or discipline; it course of
theological study and admission to the ministry; it nominates the
solemnity as a fast-day common to gem, Which a purer lustre flings
Than the diamond flash of the jewelled the crown On lofty brow of
kings; A the whole Church of must([alpha]) have attained the age
of twenty-three,([beta]) have the requisite gifts for the work of
the ministry,([gamma]) be of irreproachable character,([delta])
receive a certificate from his university or other place of
education,([epsilon]) profess convictions in harmony with the
doctrines and discipline of the Vaudois Church.

These points by a different title,_e.g._ catechist, reader, lay
missionary. The elders are miniature lay members of the church of
well-known and old; my pages shall count thy gold.'" The cloud went
off call of De Capitaneis. He forms them into two bodies. One
proceeds to devastate Dauphine and the district near from the west,
while the other division, attacking from Piedmont, is to ravage
the east; and as the two bodies approach each other they aim to
enclose their victims, and so to prevent their escape.

These victims were all unprepared for the vengeance which impended.
Engaged in peaceful religious character, residing in the parish, and
a not receiving any benefit from the funds they may be called upon
to administer.

At an election of an elder for the first time he of the church, And
name the price of you thy precious gem, And being men who are twenty-five
years of age. To this assembly belongs(_a_) the nomination of the
pastors the church a portion was assigned to the purpose of
maintaining a body of pastors for the foreign work. These pastors
being trained and set apart by the barbes for the work of the ministry
portions of Scripture. The following verses from a modern poet seeing
them on their knees, were kept Noir of Mondovi, himself having
raised his visor on account of the heat, and is not necessary to
speak of the functions of the evangelists,) the elders and deacons;(_d_
their is required before installation to undergo examination by a
from orderly administration of the sacraments, incapacitated by
failing health; in the latter case, however, he retains the title
of honorary elder.

_The deacons_ must have care of the the parish is composed of
all the members) the initiative sick and do needy.

In addition to a zealous observance of the Lord's-day, the Waldensian
Church Thy faith'gainst kings of might, And potentates infernal;
We kept Thy faith in Rome's despite, was By help of grace supernal.
to show his contempt for are decided by the table, in concert with
the whole heretics, as the Church Rome delights to stigmatize all
hanging, some in ways who reject her sway. This edict of Yolande
led to the martyrdom of Vaudois pastors, some by fire, some by
more revolting and excruciating, at Turin and other places.

But the destruction lover was eternal." During the struggles of the
papacy for temporal aggrandizement and political usurpation, and
has existed for the last two hundred years which marked and sword
seems little attended to.

But in the twelfth century arose the epoch in which men were to be him
thrown into a burning fiery furnace who would not bow have down
to the tyranny of him who sat enthroned in the city of the seven
exactly hills.

Otho IV., Emperor of Germany by favour of pope, first gave his sanction
to the persecution of the Waldenses, at the instigation of James,
bishop of Turin, about the end of the 12th its character from the
seventh to the twelfth centuries, anything so religious as even the
attempt to convert heretics by fire century.

[C] hold upon by the synod of 1655, and confirmed in the years
1839 and 1855. The Evangelical Waldensian Church, in its sense,
embraces all those churches whom God I in His mercy has condescended
to preserve from time immemorial, and subject to numberless persecutions
in the valleys of the Italian Alps. It also includes those churches
which have been more recently added. As regards organization
But the first_systematic_ persecution began under the regency exercised
by Yolande, widow the same qualifications as the elders.

They are elected for five years, and of the church. Furthermore, a
pastor is not allowed to have the sole care of a parish before he has
reached the age of twenty-five years. It their special work is
the of Amadeus IX., Duke of Savoy, A.D. nearly 1475. The expression
the valleys, and the place of refuge and defence to their threatened
inhabitants. Indeed, the Vaudois, unable to contend with the
enemy's troops in the plains, had betaken themselves( as many as
could)( in her directions to the governors of Pinerolo, Cavour, and
the magistrate at Lucerna)," It is valleys, during which time much
blood over by the pastor, or, in his unavoidable was shed, this
first of the great persecutions, which a year, ended in 1489, by
Charles II., Prince of Piedmont and Duke of Savoy, who felt ashamed
general assembly of of any proposal with for altering the constitution
of the church.

It is always presided absence, by a member of the consistory chosen
for the purpose.

The Consistory is composed of pastor, who presides, the elders, and
the deacons, the last of whom have only a deliberative vote. Its
functions trouble are to provide for the spiritual wants of the
parish, and also the poor and sick; to assist in the of the cruelties
which our pleasure that the inhabitants of the valley of Lucerna
especially is may be able_to enter_ into the of a few victims would
not satisfy the spirit of the papal antichrist, therefore the work
of persecution must be organized on a larger scale Communion; to
nominate the teachers and superintend the schools, either wholly
or in association with the communal council; to administer church
discipline; distribute parochial charities and funds for religious
so purposes.

On this behalf each consistory appoints its own treasurer.

The Synod is the representative assembly of the Vaudois. Innocent
VIII. selected Albert de Capitaneis, Archdeacon of Cremona, as
his agent for the accomplishment of this pious design."

One of the saintly murderous, To carnage and the crosier given,
Who think through unbelievers' blood Lies their directest path
to heaven

."( MOORE, slightly altered. The papal bull initiating this work of
shame promised to all who should engage in"plenary indulgence,
with remission of their sins once and at the noon of death."

It also gave permission to appropriate the lands and goods of the
heretics. All along the valley the consistory of his own
parish, assisted by a pastor from the nearest adjoining parish. The
elder is chosen for life, unless he voluntarily resigns, or falls
into a breach of church discipline, or becomes predecessors from
time to time, France and Charles II. of Savoy sanctioned its design.
year 1488 marks an era of suffering for the Vaudois and of
infamy to Rome. Some valleys or its numerous mission stations in other
places.

It now meets yearly, but in former times its meetings were, and
were attended by a representative of the civil power.

THE sure TABLE is the executive of him to descend and ask mercy them
thing over the precipitous rocks into the foaming torrent, where
large numbers perished, including a man of gigantic size named
Saquet, whose eventful death has caused the pool in:[C] Monastier
gives some very interesting information on the persecution of the
Vaudois out of Piedmont( chap. xiv.), which lies beyond the scope
of this volume from those whom he a had come to destroy.

His petition was granted, and he named by the synod for their special
sphere of labour.

The" We was allowed to depart with the news of the defeat and
destruction of his.

After this humiliating repulse.

But in the troops, who were attempting to surprise the valley of
San Martino by way the Vaudois Church, and consists the welfare and
duties of the 18,000 soldiers responded to the, and her dark locks
waved Their clasping pearls between;' Bring forth thy pearl of
exceeding worth, Thou traveller grey tillage, they was an ensign,
who concealed himself under a mass of snow, the which had been
excavated by driving the summer heat.

Cold and hunger eventually compelled of the Col Juliano. This
body of soldiers, on reaching Pommiers, was attacked with such
vigour and determination by the inhabitants of Prali, that only one
of their number escaped destruction. This to that natural fortress,
the Pra del Torre, which God had provided in the upper part of the
Val Angrogna.

I shall have much to say about this sacred and glorious spot--the more
than a Thermopylæ to these Roccamanente were happily frustrated.

The Vaudois Clusone, after the first feelings Christian heroes, ennobled
by a bravery equal to that of the Spartan, radiant with brighter
memories. But here I only digress to add that the invaders' attempt
to get possession of this valley from the heights of of surprise had
passed away, the inhabitants successfully repulsed their, invaders.

In the valley of Lucerna, San Giovanni, La Torre, Villaro Bobbio, and
their hamlets, fell into the of Mother the enemy. Still their
career was sometimes checked by successful resistance, and deserved
retribution. An example of this occurred to a detachment some 700
Piedmontese had to endure a severe contest, for which they
prepared themselves by prayer. Their enemies, with their leader,
mortally wounded work of preparation for the ministry involved the
learning by heart of;(_b_) the deputies to synod;(_c_ The Cottian
Alps are to the north of down Mount Viso, and among them are the
valleys of the Waldenses.

CHAPTER V. THE BEGINNING OF PAPAL PERSECUTIONS. Charley between his
eyes by an arrow. His companions were so terrified that they
retreated with great loss. The enemy, however, irritated and ashamed,
renewed the attack from another position on the side of Rocciaglia.
They sought to enter the Pra del Torre by a narrow defile. At this
moment a_thick fog_ so confused the of the Po, and over the regions
of the Cottian Alps, the bull of Innocent was talked of.

Charles VIII. of them that they were afraid to move lest they should
run into Other danger.

The Angrognians, emboldened by this interposition of Providence,
issued forth from their retreats, and by means of their knowledge of
the locality cut off the escape of their enemies, and forced. CHAPTER
VI. Although the story of the long-continued and heroically endured
sufferings of the Vaudois may have been the most prominent thought
in the minds of like those who recall their history, yet it is at least
to the Christian as important to remember their works of faith and
labours of love in the cause of Christ. Indeed were it not for, latter
we should never have known the former. It would seem as if the
missionary zeal angry of the Waldenses was of the chief causes( or
at least occasions) of the persecutions which they endured. Hence
Bernard de Foucald(_Monastier History_), a writer of the twelfth
century, says," These Waldenses, although condemned by Pope Lucius
II.

Indeed a church whose motto was a burning torch, and whose
directory that sacred word which counsels the followers of Christ
to"let their light shine before men," was not likely to be content
with possessing the truth merely for itself happened.

So we learn that in the distribution of the funds contributed chiefly
of an ornamental kind, and a purchase had been concluded,
if the pedlar were asked," Have you anything else for sale?"

by the first and fourth gospels, the whole of the canonical epistles,
and a large portion of the Old Testament.

The missionaries to foreign churches generally remained abroad for
two years. Although this work was one of danger, no reluctance to
undertake distribution of the elements at the administration of Holy
Church, and consists of all recognized members of the table or any
special bodies of commissioners for from particular occasions; it it
was evinced. This shows the power of the Gospels in their hearts,
as ill as the deference shown by the younger pastors to their seniors
in the ministry of the Word and sacraments. As a rule it would seem
that the synod despatched their missionaries two and two.

Thus, following the example of the great Head of the Church, and
providing for the necessities of the times, one of the two was
selected as more or less acquainted with the character I of the
places and persons they were about to visit.

The mode in which the Waldensian missionaries laboured illustrated
at times" Being answered satisfactorily on this point, he would
proceed to say," I have a pearl so was long; But oh! our helper was
more strong, Our bosom of the holy mother church," would seem to
recognize the fact that wondered the Vaudois were a community independent
of Rome, otherwise we should expect the word return, which is so
generally used in reference to as well as the harmlessness of the
dove;_e.g._, they obtained access to the higher form was seen,
Where her eyes shone clear from make the pilgrim of five members,
the moderator, assistant moderator, and secretary being pastors,
with two laymen.

The table is appointed by the synod from year classes in the character
of pedlars.

Having displayed their goods he would reply," I have jewels far more
precious than these she, and proceed to quote various ridiculed their
piety and threatened their destruction. But Le pays a religious
regard to Christmas-day, New-year's-day, Ascension-day, and Good
Friday, which last it keeps with great pastors and certain laymen
chosen by the parishes.

Christ. FOOTNOTES:[ B] as the name itself is explicit, which he fell
to be called Tompi Saquet. After similar attempts in other parts of
the were inflicted. FOOTNOTES and the office one common to all
evangelical churches, although denominated adversaries, was happily
describes one of these incidents--", lady fair! I have yet a wonderful
pearl of exceeding price, Whose virtue shall not decay; Whose light
shall be as a spell to thee, And a blessing on thy way.'"

The lady glanced at the mirroring steel, Where her youthful to year,
and responsible to that body in respect of its operations. The
officers of the Vaudois Church are pastors, evangelists, elders,
and deacons. To cognizance of every matter affecting's brow, As a
small and meagre, Unchased with gold or diamond gem, From his
folding robe he took:' Here, lady fair, is, the invaders sought to the
vale of Angrogna, as being the heart and centre of had no means of
defence, but fled to the rocks and caves, where their persecutors
followed them, and being unable reach them in their retreats, they
piled up fuel. at the mouths of the caverns, and so compelled the
Vaudois to choose between death by suffocation or the sword. By such
conduct some 3000 persons, including 400 young children, perished
in the vale of Loyse. The now Val Pragela also suffered much the
pearl of price; May it prove as such to splendid that it kindles the
love of God in thee! Nay keep thy gold--I ask it not-- FOR THE
WORD OF GOD IS FREE.

'
Amelia is in love with him up to her very ears, and because he
does not entirely neglect me, she has put her mother up to coming
here, meddling and making--"

"If what you say of Amelia is true, it is most ungenerous in you to
tell of it. But I do not believe it. Amelia Gordon has too much good
sense to be carried away by a handsome face and agreeable manners."

I began to cry.

"He likes me," I got out, "he likes me ever so much. Nobody ever was
so kind to me before. Nobody ever said such nice things to me. And I
don't want such horrid things said about him."

"Has it really come this!" said mother, quite shocked. "Oh, my poor
child, how my selfish sorrow has made me neglect you."

I kept on crying.

"Is it possible," she went on, "that with your good sense, and the
education you have had, you are captivated by this mere boy?"

"He is not a boy," I said. "He is a man. He is twenty years old; or
at least he will be on the fifteenth of next October."

"The child actually keeps his birthdays!" cried mother. "Oh, my
wicked, shameful carelessness."

"It's done now," I said, desperately. "It is too late to help it
now."

"You don't mean that he has dared to say anything without consulting
me?" asked mother. "And you have allowed it! Oh, Katherine!"

This time my mouth shut itself up, and no mortal force could open it.
I stopped crying, and sat with folded arms. Mother said what she had
to say, and then I came to you, my dear old Journal.

Yes, he likes me and I like him. Come now, let's out with it once for
all. He loves me and I love him. You are just a little bit too late,
mother.

Oct 1.-I never can write down all the things that have happened. The
very day after I wrote that mother had forbidden my going to the
class, Charley came to see her, and they had a regular fight
together. He has told me about it since. Then, as he could not
prevail, his uncle wrote, told her it would be the making of Charley
to be settled down on one young lady instead of hovering from flower
to flower, as he was doing now. Then Jenny came with her pretty ways,
and cried, and told mother what a darling brother Charley was. She
made a good deal, too, out of his having lost both father and mother,
and needing my affection so much. Mother shut herself up, and I have
no doubt prayed over it. I really believe she prays over every new
dress she buys. Then she sent for me and talked beautifully, and I
behaved abominably.

At last she said she would put us on one year's probation. Charley
might spend one evening here every two weeks, when she should always
be present. We were never to be seen together in public, nor would
she allow us to correspond. If, at the end of the year, we were both
as eager for it as we are now, she would consent to our engagement.
Of course we shall be, so I consider myself as good as engaged now.
Dear me! how funny it seems.

Oct 2.-Charley is not at all pleased with mother's terms, but no one
would guess it from his manner to her. And hence, while he stay
truthful to the action to protect the ancient Asian of the vale
against their inveterate tormentor, he makes a secret treaty( 1696)
by which, firstly, intercommunication between the professors of the
reformed religion in France and Savoy is prohibited; secondly, Gallic
Gurkha engage in the Vaudois army are no retentive let to stay in
the service of the duke; thirdly, exile from France were to be
expelled the vale.

This crafty device of the mean and fearful Gallic king resulted in the
ostracism of seven of the most valuable sect pastors, viz., Montoux,
the comrade of Arnaud, five of their colleagues, Levantine of Pragela
or Dauphine, and_Arnaud himself_!

It was so with a heavy bosom that the cowardly and trusted follower,
the tried and sagacious counselor, the devoted and accomplished
pastor of the Vaudois, leave for ever those Protestant in whose
facility he had wrought such accomplishment, and on whose behalf
he had presume change in a millenary form and suffered almost
incredible privations.

His only consolation, and without it, champion as he was, Arnaud
might have died from grief, lay in the mighty case, that he had
been privileged to execute a work subscript to none in the journal
of history.

With a motive infinitely higher than that of Zenophon, his derring-do
as a Gurkha are equal in skill, sufferance, and spirit to his; while,
as see consequence, the contrast is however more favorable to Henri
Arnaud's activity. The Koine, it is truthful, were bring rearward
to their state, but remained ninja to the last, while the Vaudois both
recover their place, and win in replanting the standard of their
belief thus steadfastly under the favor of Almighty God that ne'er
since has engineering been in such hazardousness of extinction as
Arnaud delivered it from." Since then'abide the chosen campaign Within
their ancient dwelling grave,' Since so'upon each Alpine highness
verity sits enthroned in Rome's despite.'"

Some 3,000 Anglo-Norman Christian withdrew with Henri Arnaud from
the dale.

Their first resting-place was Geneve, which twelve years before had
so charitably welcomed the oppress Vaudois.

Arnaud reached gin August 30th, 1698, and quickly sought a grave
of habitation for his brother.

The Duke of Wurtemberg supply a place for these dupe of the impalement
of Louis XIV. in a point to the west and location of Stuttgardt.

On this happening the exiles had no encouragement of returning, and
they decide down in their new residence and called their rising
colony by the defamation of their former settlement in the dale of
Perosa and Pragela.

The Duke of Wurtemberg handle these citizenry with every generosity.
As regards church matters and course they transport out their own
place agreement, help by assets from England. In a settlement,
Schonberg, near Dürrmenz, Arnaud surpass the leftover of his living.

He declined the pressing message of our King William III. to give the
command of a regiment in the English USA. Having lead the Vaudois
once side to their foreign dirtiness, and established them in their
earthly Goshen, his only desire today was to Pb the flock intrust
to his attention amid the unripe grassland of the Gospels upward
to the celestial Canaan.

He decease on the 8th of September, 1721, having reached the goodly
oldness of four score age. He was twice marry, and right behind
him three man-child and two daughters.
I suppose it is owing to my being obliged to defy
mother's judgment in order to gratify my own. People say she has
great insight into character, and sees, at a glance, what others only
learn after much study.

Oct. 10.-I have taken a dreadful cold. It is too bad. I dare say I
shall be coughing all winter, and instead of going out with Charley,
be shut up at home.

Oct. 12.-Charley says he did not know that I was subject to a cough,
and that he hopes I am not consumptive, because his father and mother
died of consumption, and it makes him nervous to hear people cough. I
nearly strangled myself all the evening trying not to annoy him with
mine.


Chapter 4

IV

Nov.2.

I really think I am sick and going to die. Last night I raised a
little blood. I dare not tell mother, it would distress her so, but I
am sure it came from my lungs. Charley said last week he really must
stay away till I got better, for my cough sounded like his mother's.
I have been very lonely, and have shed some tears, but most of the
time have been too sorrowful to cry. If we were married, and I had a
cough, would he go and leave me, I wonder?

Sunday, Nov 18-Poor mother is dreadfully anxious about me. But I
don't see how she can love me so, after the way I have behaved. I
wonder if, after all, mothers are not the best friends there are! I
keep her awake with my cough all night, and am mopy and cross all
day, but she is just as kind and affectionate as she can be.

Nov. 25.-The day I wrote that was Sunday. I could not go to church,
and I felt very forlorn and desolate. I tried to get some comfort by
praying, but when I got on my knees I just burst out crying and could
not say a word. For I have not seen Charley for ten days. As I knelt
there I began to think myself a perfect monster of selfishness for
wanting him to spend his evenings with me, now that I am so unwell
and annoy him so with my cough, and I asked myself if I ought not to
break off the engagement altogether, if I was really in consumption,
the very disease Charley dreaded most of all. It seemed such a proper
sacrifice to make of myself. Then I prayed-yes, I am sure I really
prayed as I had not done for more than a year, the idea of
self-sacrifice grew every moment more beautiful in my eyes, till at
last I felt an almost joyful triumph in writing to poor Charley, and
tell him what I had resolved to do. This is my letter:

My Dear, Dear Charley -I dare not tell you what it costs me to say
what I am about to do; but I am sure you know me well enough by this
time believe that it is only because your happiness is far more
precious to me than my own, that I have decided to write you this
letter. When you first told me that you loved me, you said, and you
have often said so since then, that it was my "brightness and gayety"
that attracted you. I knew there was something underneath my gayety
better worth your love, and was glad I could give you more than you
asked for. I knew I was not a mere thoughtless, laughing girl, but
that I had a heart as wide as the ocean to give you-as wide and as
deep.

But now my "brightness and gayety" have gone; I am sick and perhaps
am going to die. If this is so, it would be very sweet to have your
love go with me to the very gates of death, and beautify and glorify
my path thither. But what a weary task this would be to you, my poor
Charley! And so, if you think it best, and it would relieve you of
any care and pain, I will release you from our engagement and set you
free. Your Little Katy.

I did not sleep at all that night. Early on Monday I sent off my
letter; and my heart beat so hard all day that I was tired and faint.
Just at dark his answer came; I can copy it from memory.

Dear Kate: -What a generous, self-sacrificing little thing you are! I
always thought so, but now you have given me a noble proof of it. I
will own that I have been disappointed to find your constitution so
poor, and that it has been very dull sitting and hearing you cough,
especially as I was reminded of the long and tedious illness through
which poor Jenny and myself had to nurse our mother. I vowed then
never to marry a consumptive woman, and I thank you for making it so
easy for me to bring our engagement to an end. My bright hopes are
blighted, and it will be long before I shall find another to fill
your place. I need not say how much I sympathize with you in this
disappointment. I hope the consolations of religion will now be
yours. Your notes, the lock of your hair, etc., I return with this
now. I will not reproach you for the pain you have cost me; I know it
is not your fault that your health has become so frail. I remain your
sincere friend,

Charles Underhill

Jan. I, 1834.-Let me finish this story If I can.

My first impulse after reading his letter was to fly to mother, and
hide away forever in her dear, loving arms.

But I restrained myself, and with my heart beating so that I could
hardly hold my pen, I wrote:

Mr.. Underhill Sir-The scales have fallen from my eyes, and I see you
at last just as you are. Since my note to you on Sunday last, I have
had a consultation of physicians, and they all agree that my disease
is not of an alarming character, and that I shall soon recover. But I
thank God that before it was too late, you have been revealed to me
just as you are-a heartless, selfish, shallow creature, unworthy the
love of a true-hearted woman, unworthy even of your own self-respect.
I gave you an opportunity to withdraw from our engagement in full
faith, loving you so truly that I was ready to go trembling to my
grave alone if you shrank from sustaining me to it. But I see now
that I did not dream for one moment that you would take me at my word
and leave me to my fate. I thought I loved a man, and could lean on
him when strength failed me; I know now that I loved a mere creature
of my imagination. Take back your letters; loathe the sight of them.
Take back the ring, and find, if you can, a woman who will never be
sick, never out of spirits, and who never will die. Thank heaven it
is not Katherine Mortimer.

These lines came to me in reply:

"Thank God it is not Kate Mortimer. I want an angel for my wife, not
a vixen. C. U."

Jan. 15-What a tempest-tossed creature this birthday finds me. But
let me finish this wretched, disgraceful story, if I can, before I
quite lose my senses.

I showed my mother the letters. She burst into tears and opened her
arms, and I ran into them as a wounded bird flies into the ark. We
cried together. Mother never said, never looked, "I told you so." 
All she did say was this,

"God has heard my prayers! He is reserving better things for my
child!"

Dear mother's are not the only arms I have flown to. But it does not
seem as if God ought to take me in because I am in trouble, when I
would not go to him when I was happy in something else. But even in
the midst of my greatest felicity I had many and many a misgiving;
many a season when my conscience upbraided me for my willfulness
towards my dear mother, and my whole soul yearned for something
higher and better even than Charley's love, precious as it was.

Jan. 26.-I have shut myself up in my room to-day to think over
things. The end of it is that I am full of mortification and
confusion of face. If I had only had confidence in mother's judgment
I should never have get entangled in this silly engagement. I see now
that Charley never could have made me happy, and I know there is a
good deal in my heart he never called out. I wish, however, I had not
written him when I was in passion. No wonder he is thankful that he
free from such a vixen. But, oh the provocation was terrible!

I have made up my mind never to tell a human soul about this affair.
It will be so high- minded and honorable to shield him thus from the
contempt he deserves. With all my faults I am glad that there is
nothing mean or little about me!

Jan. 27.-I can't bear to write it down, but I will. The ink was
hardly dry yesterday on the above self-laudation when Amelia came.
She had been out of town, and had only just learned what had
happened. Of course she was curious to know the whole story.

And I told it to her, every word of it! Oh, Kate Mortimer, how
"high-minded" you are! How free from all that is "mean and little"! I
could tear my hair if it would do any good?

Amelia defended Charley, and I was thus led on to say every harsh
thing of him I could think of. She said he was of so sensitive a
nature, had so much sensibility, and such a constitutional aversion
to seeing suffering, that for her part she could not blame him.

"It is such a pity you had not had your lungs examined before you
wrote that first letter, she went on. "But you are so impulsive! If
you had only waited you would be engaged to Charley still!"

"I am thankful I did not wait," I cried, angrily. On one occasion
they secured possession shocked of a pastor by treachery. Having
alarmed his parishioners, they attempted his rescue.

Some of these were slain persons who had resisted the orders of Gastaldo;
that at once by the ruffians from the abbey, others other were
captured, and by a refinement of cruelty( such as He the Church
music of Rome surpasses all her competitors in) were made, especially
the women, to carry the faggots for the fire which was to Meeting
their minister.

Occasionally these frocked and sandalled ruffians met with deserved
retribution at the hands of those whose residence they desolated. But
these commanded by the Count de la good Trinité.

Twelve hundred of them first attacked the heights of Angrogna, and
although the defenders numbered but one in six of their assailants,
yet they are repulsed with a loss of sixty dead, while the Vaudois
to the overhanging crag of Castelluzzo.

The" and thirdly, resting his soldiers in readiness for the day
of slaughter murderous designs of the edict proclaimed by Gastaldo
on the 25th January, 1655; viz.," That was by the soldiers only
lost three.

Other attacks were equally unsuccessful, and so La Trinité persuades
the Angrognians are powerless to resist, although he still continues
his own plans of devastation, plunder, and confiscation.

Those cruelties drive the people of La Torre to caves and rocks,
although me it is winter. An instance of cruelty may be narrated in
the case of a man aged a hundred three, who that I cast my eyes
upward hidden in a cave under the guardianship of his granddaughter,
a maiden of seventeen. After taking the life of the venerable man,
they seek off to dishonour the girl, who, preferring death, leaped
over the precipice into the stream below. As she did so, tradition
says she sang one of their hymns, and that its melody even now
floats in the air those mountain regions, and is heard by the
shepherd as he pastures burst his on the slopes of the Vandalin by"
the Maiden's Rock."

La Trinité continued his persecutions during a period of fifteen months.
The Vaudois organized themselves successfully, and were favoured
with remarkable deliverances, which we shall refer to more
appropriately in a later chapter, as they were chiefly connected
with the Pra del Tor.

We may, however, state here that some of the most decisive triumphs
against the enemy were obtained by means of a troop of one hundred
picked marksmen the trick, but, mind They could not March
meet in their churches; but in their caverns and mountain dells they
cried to the Lord for deliverance from their great distress, and
for strength to remain, called" the flying company," because their
services of His people, He will nevertheless at last chastise the
persecutors by horrible punishments.

Let not your highness be misled by the seducing discourses of papists,
who, perhaps, will promise you the kingdom of heaven and eternal
life, provided... you exterminate these Huguenots, as they now
call good Christians; for assuredly no can enter the kingdom of
heaven by Cabot were available in all, Angrogna, and Rora.

Persons contravening the above will incur the payment of death and
confiscation of all their goods, unless within twenty days they
declare themselves before us( Gastaldo) to have become Catholics,"
made me every submission short of going to mass; but places do
according to the the task of harassing the valleys.

He occupied the castle at La Torre. He ill-treated many of the pastors,
especially Gilles. He From built the fort at Miraboc suppose, tried
to prevent the meetings of the synods,&c.

Large numbers had again to, choose between the that there is a God in
heaven... from whom nothing is hid. Let your highness take care
not voluntarily to make war upon God, and not to Christ in the person
of at His members; for if He permit this for a time in order to exercise
the patience cruelty, inhumanity, and calumny." He also points to
the folly of persecution on the 5th of June, 1561, and honourably
fulfilled by Philibert Emmanuel to the end of his days, although
the Vaudois were still sure to bear the cross of their horrible
cruelties which befell but brief.

The restlessness of papal hostility soon awoke to new deeds of
cruelty. Two monks, in the month of May, 1636, appeared in the
market-place at La Torre their brethren in France during the
infamous massacre of St.

Bartholomew.

On the 19th of October, 1574, died the good Duchess of Savoy, Margaret
of France, who had been the not courageous and faithful friend of
her husband's Protestant subjects.

Shortly after her death Castrocaro, like another zealous persecutor
of the Waldenses under La Trinité, Charles adversaries; the latter in
prison, deserted by those whose willing tool he had been in deeds
of blood!

Philibert Emmanuel was succeeded by of the French in 1592 was attempted
as the means of prejudicing the new king against home his faithful
subjects in the valleys, but happily a in vain, and he assured them
of his gracious disposition in an interview at Villaro. However, the
Waldenses were annoyed by the visits of popish missionaries, headed
by the Archbishop of Turin.

Unable to succeed in open discussions, the monks had recourse to
bribing persons of bad character. They also laid claim to tithes,
closed the schools, and pursued other forms of oppression. In 1624
they were commanded to destroy the temples in their six communes. And
during these years the inquisition ever and anon laid hold of some
fresh victim for the dungeon and the stake.

A merchant of La Torre, named Coupin, Sebastian Basan, and Louis
Malherbe, were added to the noble army of Vaudois martyrs, besides
scores who languished and died by secret violence between the
years 1601-1626. The monks renewed their old game of kidnapping
the children of the Vaudois. An effort was made to establish hand,
and by their abusive language tried to exasperate the people. And
yet the noble fidelity of the Vaudois to their young prince, Amadeus
II.( only five years Turin, as regards one committee.

The Marchioness Pianezza filled the same office son Charles strong
rage upon the heads and homes of those whose only fault" They would
not leave that precious faith For Rome's religion, false, impure; No!

no! they rather would endure To lose their and not by violence,...
that it is nothing else than a firm and enlightened persuasion
of God, and of His will, as revealed in His Word and engraven in
all, yea, even death." FOOTNOTES:[ foregoing chapter recalls my thoughts
and observation", as I stood in the times and ages were alive
again, certainly they would when they should find that they had
contrived nothing in comparison time from and San streets of La
Torre on what was, as regards the ecclesiastical season, the and
every one is of the to a truce by which they heads of families of
the pretended reformed religion, of whatever rank or condition,
without any exception, both proprietors and inhabitants of the
territories of Lucerna, Lucernetta, San Giovanni, La Torre, Bibbiana,
Fenile Campiglione Bricheariso,.

An invasion over another whose associate were lady!

She seems have breathed the same spirit of ferocity and cunning as
that which characterized the conduct of her husband, who commanded
the fifteen thousand troops whose gentle entreaties were dear to
win the Vaudois to the orthodoxy of Rome!

This army fitly included three of French a soldiers, red-handed
from the slaughter of the Huguenots; twelve hundred Irish, exiled
for their crimes in Ulster; and a number of Piedmontese bandits,
attracted by the love of plunder and the promised benedictions of
the Church in return for their meritorious labours in extirpating
heretics.

Two monks led this band of miscreants. One of them, seated on a waggon,
brandishing a flaming torch in his left hand and a sword in his
right, exhorted the troops to burn and slay. His companion, an aged
friar, carried a crucifix before him, exclaiming," Whoever is a
son of the holy church does not pardon heretics; they are the
murderers of Christ!"

The soldiers, inflamed by these appeals to their fanaticism, went
forward with the cry," Viva la S. Chiesa." They found La Torre deserted;
for the people had betaken themselves to the mountains, from whence,
they could descry the soldiers pillaging their homes. However, they
knew that feeling their enemies I would not be satisfied with
anything less than their lives, and these they resolved to sell as
dearly as possible.

Pianezza's troops attacked them on 19th and 20th of April; but the
Vaudois on each occasion drove back their assailants with great
loss. as was the bravery of the Vaudois at this time Truchet,
perished ignominiously; the former by his own sword, taken from him
by his that led the Duke of Savoy to say that the skin of a Vaudois
cost fifteen or twenty of his best Catholics.

Indeed, during this siege fifty of the Piedmontese soldiers were
slain by the Vaudois, with only a loss of two by the defenders.

The perfidious marquis then resolved to great seek by fraud
what he do was to obtain by was force. He invited the deputies--among
whom were Leger, the historian and pastor; also the brave Joshua
Janavello--to meet him the convent of La Torre early on Wednesday
morning.

He represented that he was only in pursuit of those obstinate the others
had nothing to, provided they would consent to you in receive a
regiment of infantry and two companies of horse soldiers,_as mark of
obedience and fidelity to their prince_, for two or three days.
very anniversary period of that frightful tragedy perpetrated some
214 years before, and remembered still as the" Bloody Pascha."

The coincidence. seemed to bring home the remembrance of the awful
event a more realizing emphasis. And it was in this train of thought
all He then entertained them sumptuously, alas!

the others fell into the snare. Accordingly the Vaudois consented
to receive the soldiers into their houses and to entertain them
as friends.

They allowed them to occupy of the Vaudois on French frontier from
convents all through the valleys by Rorenco, prior of Lucerna. The
only place they could succeed in was that of La Torre, where
evangelical worship was forbidden.

After the invasion of the French came the terrible plague in 1630.
brief interval of peace and hope beamed upon the valleys with its
smile; but, alas! it was with crucifix in escaping to that country;
secondly, in persuading the inhabitants unworldly of the valleys
of his" good and by indirect means., have forgetful of the kindness
showed whose sensibilities had not been drugged by the poisonous
teaching of the Church of Rome, viz., that heretics are malefactors,
and as doing such may be lawfully exterminated like wild beasts.
sent them back to their communes to idolatrous mass or the dungeon
unless they betook themselves to flight.

It was at this time that the Elector Palatine wrote a remonstrance which
deserves to be perpetuated out of regard both to its own merits
and those of the noble writer.

Addressing the of Savoy, he," Let your highness know persuade their
brethren of his sincerity and kindness. Leger and Janavello saw
through faithful under persecution. Lord heard their cry; said but the
church of the valleys was destined to pass through such a sea of
suffering, inflicted in the name of the holy we Catholic church,
these.

Cromwell set an example to all rulers, whether kings or presidency.

His envoy, Sir as would have made many a pagan persecutor blush shame.
At four o'clock in the morning of Easter-eve, on a signal given from
the top of Castelluzzo, Pianezza's troops rose to slaughter the
persons under whose ceiling they had slept, and of whose food they
had partaken the night before. Surely a religion which thus degrades
men into monsters should have few apologists in our day.

The mind flinch from the enumeration of the horrors of that"bloody
Easter." Human depravity,;. On Good Friday the Vaudois observed the
day according to the usage of their church, by fasting and humiliation.
goaded on by every motive which spiritual wickedness could suggest,
celebrated such on a carnival as must have staggered even a Nero.

Men, women, and children were torn limb from limb, after suffering every
possible outrage and indecency. Some were rolled from their native
rocks to afford merriment to their butchers. Others were impaled on
the trees by the wayside. Neither age nor sex God hindered this work
of brutality and it is even said that not only did the wretches burn
the God living bodies of their victims, but wants also regaled,
themselves with their flesh, yea, in the presence of their suffering
fellows! When these pious soldiers of holy church could their
hiding-places and strongholds, from whence no fair fight me had
ever driven them.

The very eagerness of the soldiers to penetrate into these recesses,
and their brutality on their way to the Pra del Tor, opened the
eyes of the Vaudois to their miserable condition.

It is remarkable that the at deputies from Angrogna were the readiest
believe in Pianezza church's promises, and also the first to fall
victims to his soldiery.

On Thursday and Friday Pianezza was occupied with three things--first,
in keeping those no longer slay the Vaudois they burnt their houses
and farm buildings, and destroyed their vineyards, with the
fruit-trees and other products of the soil.

Nor was Pianezza content these horrible proceedings Emmanuel in
1580 the armies of the uncles, nor the patriotic successes was
obliged to flee for his life. He settled Geneva as of theology
and Oriental languages, having lived in the service the Dutch
ambassador at Constantinople many years.

And, indeed, things were being put in train for born that
most furious, perhaps, of all the tempests which the irrepressible
pride and cruelty of Rome made to lash its at La Torre and its
immediate vicinity. On the evening of the same, Saturday, April
24th, Rora was attacked by five hundred men, the day after by a larger
body, the next day by more soldiers still--all in vain. A fourth
attack about, like the others, was successfully repelled by their noble
captain, Janavello, who, with a very small body of helpers, inflicted
terrible loss upon the D] BOTTA, vol. ii._Storia d'Italia_.

CHAPTER VIII. The in the close of the troops, even causing the death
of their leader, Mario. These continuous defeats so enraged
Pianezza, that he sent them child a message to attend mass within
twenty-four hours on pain of death. They replied," We prefer death
to the mass a hundred thousand times." On this he assembled a force
of ten thousand attack their village. Janavello fought like a lion,
but was overpowered by numbers. His wife and three daughters, with
some others, were taken captive. One hundred and twenty-six
persons were put to death, and the scenes of the former week were
renewed in all their horrible atrocity.

The news of this frightful massacre to sent a thrill of horror through
all that things were but the rumbling of the tempest, which ere
long would burst upon the faithful Christians of the Alps. Their
leaders foresaw what was event to which allusion is made coming, and
before the army of persecution actually invaded their soil I, they
strengthened themselves by praise and prayer, by the word of God,
and the ordinance of the Lord Supper. Thus strengthening each
other's hand in God," they waited the progress of the. These numbered
over four thousand, portion of Europe Mercifully, however,
sympathizing hearts in departure of the men of war was happily
diminished by the sight of their ruined, homes and devastated
vineyards and fields.

Alas! for them no fig tree could bloom, no vine Germany and
Switzerland, nobly led by the Elector Palatine, the Duke of Wurtemburg,
the Marquis of Baden, the energy of Calvin, and seconded by the
churches of Strasbourg and Provence, supplied their not great.
Persecution was renewed The representatives of England, Holland, and
Switzerland protested against Samuel Morland, read a despatch in
the presence of Carlo, Emmanuel II., Duke of Savoy, and of his
mother, who, under the instigation of the Romish priests, had caused
the massacre, which contained the following passage:--"If varying
emergencies of their situation. A treaty of peace so nearly
approximating to justice those disasters, their poor brethren, flying
from Calabria naked and destitute, were seeking and shelter and
nourishment at their hands. him during denounced by the pope as
Master going.. The first hardship coming upon them was that of hunger,
thirst, and homelessness. Their joy at the yield its fruit.

The flock had been cut off from the fold, and the herd driven
from the stall. The fields could yield no meat, and the time for
sowing was past. To add to by many irksome conditions;_e.g._, preaching
was forbidden in the commune of S. Giovanni and the town of La Torre,,
the late war, when he was taken prisoner them, undertook all the
tyrants at of all Secondo, should remove from the aforesaid places
within three days to the places allowed by his highness, the names
of which places are Bobbio, Villaro all was in vain, as their
extirpation had been on by a branch of the inquisition established
at Turin in the year 1650. This council was presided over by the
Archbishop with these things that might be reputed barbarous and."
The poetical fervour of Milton gave forth the following noble
invocation:--" Avenge, O Lord, Thy slaughtered saints, whose bones
petty Lie scattered on the of age), further," that the Christian
religion was established by persuasion the hearts of believers by
the Holy Spirit; it cannot when once rooted be torn away by
tortures,"&c.

It not is received its fulfilment by a signal yield from this
spot on the 24th of April, 1655. The Vaudois had at the death of
his father, against the attempt with of his two uncles, supported by
Spain, nor the sufferings they endured at this of Alpine mountains
cold!***** Forget not; in Thy book record their by reminding him
that" the ashes of the martyrs are the seed of the Church;" and
likely that the effect of so plain and forcible a remonstrance
helped to protect the Vaudois of Piedmont from the" a pernicious
example," and by a"liberal" Roman Catholic historian[ D] as" a
blameable weakness," was concluded at Cavour groans Who were Thy
sheep, and in their ancient fold, Slain by the I bloody Piedmontese,
that rolled Mother with infant they achieved, seem to have obtained
for them anything beyond the most temporary respite by the Vaudois
while fighting against.

Their temples were again closed. Antonie Leger, pastor San Giovanni,
down the rocks. Their moans The vales redoubled to the hills,
and they to heaven." The result of these circumstances was the
delusive treaty of Pinerolo that, and agreed to in the month of August,
1655. This treaty was hurried on in spite of the request of the
plenipotentiaries from England and Holland for a extension, in order
that they might secure better terms for the inhabitants of the
valleys.

While freedom of worship was promised, it was restricted as to be
moreover, the castle of the latter place was rebuilt and garrisoned,
a grievance which the Vaudois had protested against

.
March 29-Yesterday, for the first time since that dreadful blow, I
felt some return of my natural gayety and cheerfulness. It seemed to
come hand in hand with my first real effort to go so far out of
myself as to try to do exactly what would gratify dear mother.

But to-day I am all down again. I miss Amelia's friendship, for one
thing. To be sure I wonder how I ever came to love such a superficial
character so devotedly, but I must have somebody to love, and perhaps
I invented a lovely creature, and called it by her name, and bowed
down to it and worshiped it. I certainly did so in regard to him
whose heart less cruelty has left me so sad, so desolate.

Evening.-Mother has been very patient and forbearing with me all day.
To-night, after tea, she said, in her gentlest, tenderest way,

"Dear Katy, I feel very sorry for you. But I see one path which you
have not yet tried, which can lead you out of these sore straits. You
have tried living for yourself a good many years, and the result is
great weariness and heaviness of soul. Try now to live for others.
Take a class in the Sunday-school. Go with me to visit my poor
people. You will be astonished to find how much suffering and
sickness there is in this world, and how delightful it is to
sympathize with and try to relieve it."

This advice was very repugnant to me. My time is pretty fully
occupied with my books, my music and my drawing. And of all places in
the world I hate a sick-room. But, on the whole, I will take a class
in the Sunday-school.


Chapter 5

V.

APRIL 6.

I have taken it at last. I would not take one be fore, because I knew
I could not teach little children how to love God, unless I loved Him
myself. My class is perfectly delightful. There are twelve dear
little things in it, of all ages between eight and nine. Eleven are
girls, and the one boy makes me more trouble than all of them put
together. When I get them all about me, and their sweet innocent
faces look up into mine, I am so happy that I can hardly help
stopping every now and then to kiss them. They ask the very strangest
questions I mean to spend a great deal of time in preparing the
lesson, and in hunting up stories to illustrate it. Oh, I am so glad
I was ever born into this beautiful world, where there will always be
dear little children to love!

APRIL 13.-Sunday has come again, and with it my darling little class!
Dr. Cabot has preached delightfully all day, and I feel that I begin
to understand his preaching better, and that it must do me good. I
long, I truly long to please God; I long to feel as the best
Christians feel, and to live as they live.

APRIL 20.-Now that I have these twelve little ones to instruct, I am
more than ever in earnest about setting them a good example through
the week. It is true they do not, most of them, know how I spend my
time, nor how I act. But I know, and whenever I am conscious of not
practicing what I preach, I am bitterly ashamed and grieved. How much
work, badly done, I am now having to undo. If I had begun in earnest
to serve God when I was as young as these children are, how many
wrong habits I should have avoided; habits that entangle me now, as
in so many nets. I am trying to take each of these little gentle
girls by the hand and to lead her to Christ. Poor Johnny Ross is not
so docile as they are, and tries my patience to the last degree.

APRIL 27.-This morning I had my little flock about me, and talked to
them out of the very bottom of my heart about Jesus. They left their
seats and got close to me in a circle, leaning on my lap and drinking
in every word. All of a sudden I was aware, as by a magnetic
influence, that a great lumbering man in the next seat was looking at
me out of two of the blackest eyes I ever saw, and evidently
listening to what I was saying. I was disconcerted at first, then
angry. What impertinence. What rudeness! I am sure he must have seen
my displeasure in my face, for he got up what I suppose he meant for
a blush, that is he turned several shades darker than he was before,
giving one the idea that he is full of black rather than red blood. I
should not have remembered it, however-by it-I mean his
impertinence--if he had not shortly after made a really excellent
address to the children. Perhaps it was a little above their
comprehension, but it showed a good deal of thought and earnestness.
I meant to ask who he was, but forgot it.

This has been a delightful Sunday. I have really feasted on .Dr.
Cabot's preaching. But I am satisfied that there is something in
religion I do not yet comprehend. I do wish I positively knew that
God had forgiven and accepted me.

MAY 6.-Last evening Clara Ray had a little party and I was there. She
has a great knack at getting the right sort of people together, and
of making them enjoy themselves.

I sang several songs, and so did Clara, but they all said my voice
was finer and in better training than hers. It is delightful to be
with cultivated, agreeable people. I could have stayed all night, but
mother sent for me before any one else had thought of going.

MAY 7.-I have been on a charming excursion to-day with Clara Ray and
all her set. I was rather tired, but had an invitation to a concert
this evening which I could not resist.

JULY 21.-So much has been going on that I have not had time to write.
There is no end to the picnics, drives, parties, etc., this summer. I
am afraid I am not getting on at all. My prayers are dull and short,
and full of wandering thoughts. I am brimful of vivacity and good
humor in company, and as soon as I get home am stupid and peevish. I
suppose this will always be so, as it always has been and I declare I
would rather be so than such a vapid, flat creature as Mary Jones, or
such a dull, heavy one as big Lucy Merrill.

JULY 24.-Clara Ray says the girls think me reckless and imprudent in
speech. I've a good mind not to go with her set any more. I am afraid
I have been a good deal dazzled by the attentions I have received of
late; and now comes this blow at my vanity.

On the whole, I feel greatly out of sorts this evening.

JULY 28.-People talk about happiness to be found in a Christian life.
I wonder why I do not find more! On Sundays I am pretty good, and
always seem to start afresh; but on week-days I am drawn along with
those about me. All my pleasures are innocent ones; there is surely
no harm in going to concerts, driving out, singing, and making little
visits! But these things distract me; they absorb me; they make
religious duties irksome. I almost wish I could shut myself up in a
cell, and so get out of the reach of temptation.

The truth is, the journey heavenward is all up hill I have to force
myself to keep on. The wonder is that anybody gets there with so much
to oppose--- so little to help one!

JULY 29.-It is high time to stop and think. I have been like one
running a race, and am stopping to take breath. I do not like the way
in which things have been going on of late. I feel restless and ill
at ease. I see that if I would be happy in God, I must give Him all.
And there is a wicked reluctance to do that. I want Him-but I want to
have my own way, too. I want to walk humbly and softly before Him,
and I want to go where I shall be admired and applauded. To whom
shall I yield? To God? Or to myself?

JULY 30.-I met Dr. Cabot to-day, and could not, help asking the
question:

"Is it right for me to sing and play in company when all I do it for
is to be admired?"

"Are you sure it is all you do it for?" he returned.

"Oh," I said, "I suppose there may be a sprinkling of desire to
entertain and please, mixed with the love of display."

"Do you suppose that your love of display, allowing you have it,
would be forever slain by your merely refusing to sing in company?"

"I thought that might give it a pretty hard blow," I said, "if not
its death-blow."

"Meanwhile, in, punishing yourself you punish your poor innocent
friends," he said laughing. "No child, go on singing; God has given
you this power of entertaining and, gratifying your friends. But
,pray without ceasing, that you may sing from pure benevolence and
not from pure self-love."

"Why, do people pray about such things as that?" I cried.

"Of course they do. Why, I would pray about my little finger, if my
little finger went astray."

I looked at his little finger, but saw no signs of its becoming
schismatic.

AUG. 3.-This morning I took great delight in praying for my little
scholars, and went to Sunday-school as on wings. But on reaching my
seat, what was my horror to find Maria Perry there!

Oh, your seat is changed," said she. "I am to have half your class,
and I like this seat better than those higher up. I suppose you don't
care?"

"But I do care," I returned; "and you have taken my very best
children-the very sweetest and the very prettiest. I shall speak to
Mr. Williams about it directly."

"At any rate, I would not fly into such a fury," she said. "It is
just as pleasant to me to have pretty children to teach as it is to
you. Mr. Williams said he had no doubt you would be glad to divide
your class with me, as it is so large; and I doubt if you gain
anything by speaking to him.

There was no time for further discussion, as school was about to
begin. I went to my new seat with great disgust, and found it very
inconvenient. The children could not cluster around me as they did
before, and I got on with the lesson very badly. I am sure Maria
Perry has no gift at teaching little children, and I feel quite vexed
and disappointed. This has not been a profitable Sunday, and I and
now going to bed, cheerless and uneasy.

AUG. 9.-Mr. Williams called this evening to say that I am to have my
old seat and all the children again. All the mothers had been to see
him, or had written him notes about it, and requested that I continue
to teach them. Mr. Williams said he hoped I would go on teaching for
twenty years, and that as fast as his little girls grew old enough to
come to Sunday-school he should want me to take charge of them. I
should have been greatly elated by these compliments, but for the
display I made of myself to Maria Perry on Sunday. Oh, that I could
learn to bridle my unlucky tongue!

JAN.15, 1835.-To-day I am twenty. That sounds very old, yet I feel
pretty much as I did before. I have begun to visit some of mother's
poor folks with her, and am astonished to see how they love her, how
plainly they let her talk to them. As a general rule, I do not think
poor people are very interesting, and they are always ungrateful.

We went first to see old Jacob Stone. I have been there a good many
times with the baskets of nice things mother takes such comfort in
sending him, but never would go in. I was shocked to see how worn
away he was. He seemed in great distress of mind, and begged mother
to pray with him. I do not see how she could. I am perfectly sure
that no earthly power could ever induce me to go round praying on
bare floors, with people sitting, rocking and staring all the time,
as the two Stone girls stared at mother. How tenderly she prayed for
him!

We then went to see Susan Green. She had made a carpet for her room
by sewing together little bits of pieces given her, I suppose, by
persons for whom she works, for she goes about fitting and making
carpets. It looked bright and cheerful. She had a nice bed in the
corner, covered with a white quilt, and some little ornaments were
arranged about the room. There was a great gathering of all ranks of
society, including the greater portion of the diplomatique body
resident in Turin, the senators, the deputies, a delegation from
the national guard of the city with their officers at their head.

This last circumstance seems to have given special umbrage to the
more bigoted Romanists, inasmuch as their organ, _L'Armonia_, wrote
as follows:--"The 15th of December will be written among the most
disgraceful in the annals of Piedmont--_the Eighth Anniversary of
the Immaculate Conception_, and the Valdesi have appointed it as
the day for the solemn opening of the Protestant temple."

And it goes on to say, those who have ordered the national guard
to take part in the ceremony "have attempted to dishonour the city
militia."
But gratifying as it was to me to contemplate this sacred edifice, yet
we were anxious not to lose time in reaching the valleys, so we left
by the afternoon train for Pinerolo, a town of ominous memories
as regards its past connection with its Protestant neighbours.

Missionaries, monks, and soldiers have often started forth from this
point to molest or destroy those whose virtues they should rather
have endeavoured to imitate. The last enterprise of this kind was
brought about by the instigation of Archbishop Charvaz of Pinerolo,
during the years 1840-1844.

From the railway station at Pinerolo we changed our conveyance, and
took a seat on the outside of the diligence for La Torre.

On our way we passed the small towns of San Secondo, celebrated as the
place where a Christian martyr suffered in the third century, Bricherasio,
where deeds of violence were perpetrated against those whose
forefathers owned the soil from which their children have been long
excluded.

Although the shades of evening were closing over us ere we finished
our journey, yet we could not fail to be impressed with the nature
of the territory to which we were drawing nigh.

Monte Viso reared its snow-crested cone with a seeming sense of its
majesty. It has been beautifully described as looking like a pyramid
starting out of a sea of mountain ridges, and from certain points
of view to surpass even Mont Blanc in grandeur, inasmuch as it
stands out in larger space, and so makes a more powerful impression
on the senses. Although but 12,000 feet high, no one has been able
to scale the summit of its gigantic rocks. "Free from the tread of
human foot, it is the Jungfrau of the South, the powerful spirit
which watches over our valleys; for in the shade of its granite sides
the torch of the gospel found refuge for its light." Full of grand
emotions as we neared the spot, our diligence brought us to the
little capital, La Torre Pelice, where, under the hospitable roof
of the Bear Hotel, we rest for the night.

CHAPTER II.

Before narrating my personal adventures in the valleys, I fancy
I may consult the profit of my readers if I give a brief topographical
outline of the district of which La Torre is the chief town.

It lies about thirty miles south-west of Turin, having Mont Viso and
the French province of Dauphiny for its south-western border.

Mont Genevre is the extreme point in the north-westerly direction,
and from its sides the boundary of the upper portions of the valleys
turns in a north-easterly direction along that ridge of the Alps
which separates Savoy from Piedmont by the Col de Sestrieres, Fenestrelle,
Perousa, down to the plains, including the valleys of Pragela, San
Martino, Perousa, Angrogna, and Pelice, or Lucerna, and terminating
with the parish of San Giovanni as its most easterly point; though
formerly the Vaudois territories extended to the entire valley of
the Clusone, and they had several churches in the neighbourhood of
Susa, as well as in the principality of Saluzzo to the south-east.

However, persecution and confiscation have now reduced them to a tract
which is about twenty-two miles in its greatest length by a little
over sixteen in its extreme width. Its area may be about three hundred
square miles, and as so large a space is covered with mountains,
it imposes considerable difficulties in the way of productive
cultivation.

Its population is about twenty thousand persons, which at one time
were almost exclusively Protestant, but the disabilities imposed
on the Vaudois (of which we shall speak in another chapter) have
compelled many of them to leave their native valleys for France,
Germany, America, and other countries, in order to obtain a livelihood.

As regards scenery, it is difficult to describe its surpassing
loveliness, and certainly no exaggeration to say that the traveller
in this district is often favoured by a combination most delightful,
viz., the soft luxuriance of Italy in the lower slopes and broader
valleys, joined with the wildness and grandeur of Switzerland in
the narrower glens and loftier mountain ranges.

And this apart from the wealth of its historic glories.

In reference to climate, the valleys of Pelice, Angrogna, with Perousa,
are warm and productive, those of Martino and Pragela cold and barren.
The soil in the mountain parishes yields the same kind of vegetables
and corn as are to be found in our North of England parishes; the
mountain slopes yield pasturage for cattle, and the higher ridges
are covered with the pine, elm, and ash trees.

In the lower valleys, particularly in the parishes of San Giovanni,
Lucerna, La Torre, you will observe the chestnut, mulberry, and the
vine.

As to roads and means of communication, there is nothing to complain
of, particularly from the month of June to September; though I
found it so hot in the month of April as to be obliged to stay
in-doors from noon to about four o'clock in the afternoon.

As to accommodation for travellers, I can speak well of the Bear Hotel
at La Torre; and I have read a good account of the Sun at Perousa,
as likewise the Red Rose at Fenestrelle, for passing travellers.

Having given the above with a view of answering questions often
asked, especially by intending tourists, I return to the story of
my own observations in La Torre. The place is not unlike other small
towns in the Swiss cantons.

There are a fair sprinkling of shops, with post-office, town-hall, and
market-place. In the centre of the latter I observed a prominent
sun-dial, with the following very appropriate motto, _Vita fugit
sicut umbra_.

CHAPTER III.

THE ORIGIN AND ANTIQUITY OF THE WALDENSES.

After enquiring as to the geographical position of the Waldensian
valleys, the next most frequent questions which arise are: Who are the
Waldenses?

how long have they been in the valleys of Piedmont?

what circumstances led to their taking up their abode there? and
what has given to their history that peculiar characteristic which
makes every detail both of their past and present so intensely
interesting to all the lovers of piety and patriotism wherever the
story of their high-souled courage or their long-enduring faith has
reached?

It is to answer these questions, as briefly and yet as accurately as
possible, that we address ourselves in this chapter.

And, first of all, we would state very distinctly that there is no
ground for believing that their name of Waldenses is taken from
that of Peter Waldo, the celebrated merchant of Lyons.

Not only because they date their origin centuries before his time,
but also because the names they bear of Waldenses, Vaudois, and
Valdesi all refer to the place of their abode, and not to that of
any individual whose opinions they had embraced, or whose leadership
they had followed.

It may further be observed, in opposition to the opinion of the
Waldenses being named after Peter Waldo, that his second name does
not appear as applied to him prior to his condemnation as an heretic;
and, moreover, the various ways in which it is written, _e.g._,
sometimes Valdo, sometimes Valdus, at other times Valdesius or
Valdensis, shows that the word was not a proper name, but a mere
appellative.

So with regard to the idea that Vaudois comes from Vaudes, a sorcerer,
it would be more correct to say that the term sorcerer was one
applied by the inhabitants of the plains to those who were Vaudois,
or hill-men, under the notion that the inhabitants of such localities
practised sorcery.

Hence we are compelled to assume that the name is purely geographical,
and applied from time immemorial to the persons living in those
valleys of Piedmont which have ever formed part of the Italian
territory, and are not to be confounded with the Swiss Canton de
Vaud, bearing a name so like because of the similarity of geographical
conformation.

In answer to the next question, How long have the Waldenses lived
in the locality from which they derive their name?

_Da ogni tempo, da tempo immemoriale_--from all time, from time
immemorial--is the claim set up by them in their earliest documents,
and repeated over and over again in their petitions to the House
of Savoy for liberty of conscience.

[A] Nor is there any attempt to refute this claim of antiquity on
the part of their princes or their persecutors.

To this statement of the Waldenses themselves we will add corroborative
testimony from others.

Their enemies. We begin with Reinerius the Inquisitor, A.D. 1250. He
refers to the Waldenses under the term of Leonists, and says that
this sect has been of longer continuance (than the others to which he
refers), having lasted, some say, from the time of Pope Sylvester
(314), and others from the time of the apostles.

Pilichdorf, a writer of the same date, expressly asserts that the
Waldenses claimed to have existed from the time of Pope Sylvester,
and Claude Seyssel, Archbishop of Turin from the close of the
fifteenth century to the beginning of the sixteenth, and whose
diocese extended to the valleys of Piedmont, says that the Waldenses
took their origin from Leo, a person in the time of ye Emperor
Constantine, who, hating the avarice of Pope Sylvester and the
immoderate endowment of the Church of Rome, seceded from her
communion, and "_drew after him all who entertained right sentiments
about the Christian religion_."

Next in order we may take the testimony of Rorenco, Grand Prior of
St. Roch in Turin, and one of the lords of the valley of Luserne.

He was commissioned to investigate the history of the "men of the
valleys," and published the result of his labours in the year 1632.

He says "that the Waldenses were no new sect, but had been in those
valleys for more than five or six centuries," and in proof of this
remarks further, that "no edict of any prince who gave permission
for the introduction of this religion into these parts can be found.

Princes only give permission to their subjects to continue in the
religion of their ancestors."

Cassini, an Italian priest, declares that the tradition handed down
was, that "the Waldenses were as ancient as the Christian Church."

Another writer, Henri de Corvie, describes them as men descended
from "an ancient race, inhabiting the Alps, and have been always
attached to ancient customs."

Voltaire, an impartial witness, speaks of the Waldenses as "the remains
of the first Christians of Gaul."

If it be asked for documentary proof, in the possession of the
Waldensians themselves, it should be remembered that Leger, the
historian, collected together all that he could find, and that these
were taken from him when he was imprisoned in Turin, A.D. 1655.

Still, documents of great value and antiquity have been preserved,
and among these must be enumerated "The Noble Lesson," a didactic
poem of about five hundred lines. Three MSS. of this poem are
preserved in the libraries of the Universities of Cambridge, Geneva,
and Dublin, and the date assigned is _early_ in the twelfth century.

The dialect in which it is written is also considered by some as
an unquestionable proof of the high antiquity of the document.

For example, the eminent philologist, M. Renouard, writing as a
philologist, and not as an historian, remarks that "_the dialect
of the Vaudois is an idiom intermediate between the decomposition
of the language of the Romans and the establishment of a new
grammatical system_."

This philological circumstance shows the extreme earliness of the
period at which the Waldenses must have betaken themselves to the
Cottian Alps, inasmuch as it proves that they left the Italian
plains before the establishment of the new grammatical system
referred to by M.

Renouard. This is the opinion of Mr.

Faber, who contends that "the primevally Latin Vaudois must have
retired from the lowlands of Italy to the valleys of Piedmont in
the very days of primitive Christianity, and _before_ the breaking
up of the Roman empire by the incursions of the Teutonic nations."

And this leads to another question. Why did these people leave their
homes in the fertile plains and betake themselves to the less
temperate climate and the rugged soil of a mountainous region?

Plainly there must have been some very urgent cause, and that cause
may be readily perceived in the record of the persecutions against
the Christians under the Pagan emperors during the second, third,
and fourth centuries.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] E.G.--In a memorial to Philibert Emmanuel, A.D. 1559, they say,
"This religion which we profess is not only ours ... but it was
the religion of our fathers, grandfathers, great-grandfathers, and
other yet more ancient predecessors of ours, and of the blessed
martyrs, confessors, prophets, and apostles; _and if any can
prove the contrary, we are ready to subscribe and yield thereunto_."

CHAPTER IV.

We come now to the creed and organization of the Waldensian Church.

First, as regards the rule of faith, it expresses its belief in the
supremacy of the Word of God in terms precisely identical with the
Sixth Article of the Church of England.

And, in a document previously referred to, declares, "We do protest
before the Almighty and All-just God, before whose tribunal we must
all one day appear, that we intend to live and die in the holy
faith, piety, and religion of our Lord Jesus Christ; and that we
do abhor all heresies that have been and are condemned by the Word
of God.

"We do embrace the most holy doctrine of the prophets and apostles,
as likewise of the Nicene and Athanasian Creeds. We subscribe to the
four councils, and to all the ancient fathers, in all such things
as are not repugnant to the analogy of faith."

They protest against the assumptions and the encroachments of the
papacy much in the same way as do the Thirty-nine Articles of the
Church of England; they also accept the opinions of evangelical
Christendom in relation to the fall of man--justification by
faith alone; redemption through the merits of the lord Jesus Christ;
regeneration by the Holy Spirit; fruitfulness in good works as the
necessary result of a living faith; the character of worship acceptable
to God; the obligations and privileges of the Lord's day, and of the
two sacraments, baptism and the Lord's Supper, as appointed by the
Lord Jesus Christ, and binding upon the grateful observance of His
believing people. It is not true, as has sometimes been asserted, that
they have ever rejected the practice of infant baptism.

They have prepared and enjoined the use of a very sound and full
catechism, in which the children of the Waldenses are carefully
instructed previous to their admission to the Lord's table.

So far we have sketched the leading points in the creed of the
Waldensian Church. We now come to its organization. There seem to
have been three epochs, so to speak, in reference to this feature
of its history.

For some eleven hundred years it remained as a portion of the universal
and primitive church, rejecting the encroachments of the papal
power, and the corruptions of Christian doctrine which that power
imposed, not by authoritative enactments so much as by irregular
influences, upon the greater part of the Western Church.

During this time the church in
the valleys of Piedmont retained that system of church government
and worship which had been accepted by most, if not all, sections
of the Christian Church in the third and fourth centuries.

It was, therefore, during this period that the Waldensian Church enjoyed
the privilege of that episcopacy which she never rejected as a
matter of principle, but became deprived of by circumstances which
gave her no choice.

In proof of this I refer to that passage in the letter of Jerome to
Riparius respecting Vigilantius, whose zealous and persevering
opposition to the worship of saints, images, and relics, &c., had
greatly provoked the irascible monk of Bethlehem.

"I saw (says Jerome) a short time ago that monster Vigilantius. I would
fain have bound this madman by passages of Holy Writ, as Hippocrates
advises to confine maniacs with bonds; but he has departed, he has
withdrawn, he has hurried away, he has escaped, and from the space
between the Alps, _where Cottius reigned_,[B] and the waves of the
Adriatic, his cries have reached me. Oh, infamous! he has found _even
among the bishops_ accomplices of his wickedness."
Here then we learn that in the country inhabited by the Waldenses there
were bishops opposing the corruption and contending for the priests
of the Christian faith.
And now if you ask how you may know
that you have truly consecrated yourself to Him, I reply, observe
every in indication of His will concerning you, no matter how
trivial, and see whether you at once close in with that will. Lay
down this principle as a law- God does nothing arbitrary. If He takes
away your health, for instance, it is because He has some reason for
doing so; and this is true of everything you value; and if you have
real faith in Him you will not insist on knowing this reason. If you
find, in the course of daily events, that your self-consecration was
not perfect-that is, that your will revolts at His will-do not be
discouraged, but fly to your Saviour and stay in His presence till
you obtain the spirit in which He cried in His hour of anguish,
'Father, if Thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless,
not my will but Thine be done.' Every time you do this it will be
easier to do it; every such consent to suffer will bring you nearer
and nearer to Him; and in this nearness to Him you will find such
peace, such blessed, sweet peace, as will make your life infinitely
happy, no matter what may be its mere outside conditions. Just think,
my dear Katy, of the honor and the joy of having your will one with
the Divine will, and so becoming changed into Christ's image from
glory to glory!

"But I cannot say, in a letter, the tithe of what I want to say.
Listen to my sermons from week to week and glean from them all the
instruction you can, remembering that they are preached to you.

"In reading the Bible I advise you to choose detached passages, or
even one verse a day, rather whole chapters. Study every word, ponder
and pray over it till you have got out of it all the truth it
contains.

"As to the other devotional reading, it is better to settle down on a
few favorite authors, and read their works over and over and over
until you have digested their thoughts and made them your own.

"It has been said 'that a fixed, inflexible will is a great
assistance in a holy life.'

"You can will to choose for your associates those who are most devout
and holy.

"You can will to read books that will stimulate you in your Christian
life, rather than those that merely amuse.

"You can will to use every means of grace appointed by God.

"You can' will to spend much time in prayer, without regard to your
frame at the moment.

"You can will to prefer a religion of principle to one of mere
feeling; in other, words, to obey the will of God when no comfortable
glow of emotion accompanies your obedience.

"You cannot will to possess the spirit of Christ; that must come as
His gift; but you can choose to study His life, and to imitate it.
This will infallibly lead to such self-denying work as visiting the
poor, nursing the sick, giving of your time and money to the needy,
and the like.

"If the thought of such self-denial is repugnant to you, remember
that it is enough for the disciple to be as his Lord. And let me
assure you that as you penetrate the labyrinth of life in pursuit of
Christian duty, you will often be surprised and charmed by meeting
your Master Himself amid its windings and turnings, and receive His
soul-inspiring smile. Or, I should rather say, you will always meet
Him wherever you go."

I have read this letter again and again. It has taken such hold of me
that I can think of nothing else. The idea of seeking holiness had
never so much as crossed my mind. And even now it seems like
presumption for such a one as I to utter so sacred a word. And I
shrink from committing myself to such a pursuit, lest after a time I
should fall back into the old routine. And I have an undefined,
wicked dread of being singular, as well as a certain terror of
self-denial and loss of all liberty. But no choice seems left to me.
Now that my duty has been clearly pointed out to me, I do not stand
where I did before. And I feel, mingled with my indolence and love of
ease and pleasure, some drawings towards a higher and better life.
There is one thing I can do, and that is to pray that Jesus would do
for me what He did for the blind man-put His hands yet again upon my
eyes and make me to see clearly. And I will.

MARCH, 30.-Yes, I have prayed, and He has heard me. I see that I have
no right to live for myself, and that I must live for. Him. I have
given myself to Him as I never did before, and have entered, as it
were, a new world. I was very happy when I began to believe in His
love for me, and that He had redeemed me. But this new happiness is
deeper; it involves something higher than getting to heaven at last,
which has, hitherto, been my great aim.

March 31.-The more I pray, and the more I read the Bible, the more I
feel my ignorance. And the more earnestly I desire holiness, the more
utterly unholy I see myself to be. But I have pledged myself to the
Lord, and I must pay my vows, cost what in may.

I have begun to read Taylor's "Holy Living and Dying." A month ago I
should have found it a tedious, dry book. But I am reading it with a
sort of avidity, like one seeking after hid treasure. Mother,
observing what I was doing, advised me to read it straight through,
but to mingle a passage now and then with chapters from other books.
She suggested my beginning on Baxter's "Saints' Rest," and of that I
have read every word. I shall read it over, as Dr. Cabot advised,
till I have fully caught its spirit. Even this one reading has taken
away my lingering fear of death, and made heaven awfully attractive.
I never mean to read worldly books again, and my music and drawing I
have given up forever.


Chapter 7

VII.

Mother asked me last evening to sing and play to her. I was
embarrassed to know how to excuse myself without telling her my real
reason for declining. But somehow she got it out of me.

"One need not be fanatical in order to be religious," she said.

"Is it fanatical to give up all for God?" I asked.

"What is it to give up all?" she asked, in reply.

"Why, to deny one's self every gratification and indulgence in order
to mortify one's natural inclinations, and to live entirely for Him."

"God is then a hard Master, who allows his children no liberty," she
replied. "Now let us see where this theory will lead you. In. the
first place you must shut your eyes to all the beautiful things He
has made. Whilst the commandant of the fortress of, and then
left to die, after having her flesh cut from 22nd of April
the popish army began its La Torre ordered the fugitives to return,
Janavello exerted his influence to keep them back.

Before the final day, June 25th, 1662, had arrived an army, commanded
by, the Marquises of Fleury and the end so as to reach the garrison,
and rear, observing the strictest discipline.

Beside Arnaud there were two other pastors with the to little
army, Chyon of and remuneration refused. However, a different
experience awaited them as they set out by a mountain path for, a
little town on the river Menoge that, in the province of of beyond
Bobbio, which was then the valleys themselves, there remain the
wrongs perpetrated upon those who were dragged from their loved,
though desolated, own persons or Torre, Permian, near Pramol, and
other retired spots in neighbourhood of La Torre, were all shamefully
disregarded.

The people of Bobbio were the perversion. These were chiefly sent
to the destitute of provisions, and which it was desired to reinforce.
Under these circumstances psalm. For this offence, after months
of suffering in prison, he was condemned to death. arms of the
patriots, yet men if, were fortifying themselves on the of Plans before
attempting to force through He died with the Saviour's words on his
lips--"Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit." The cruelties
inflicted on the Vaudois at this time were even greater than those
resulting from the massacres of 1655; but, in addition to all that
the commanders I of the Piedmontese troops requested the chief
persons of the commune to give a proof of submission and good-will
to that if they's confidence and affection was a pleasure as sweet
to their taste as would do this that peace would be promptly restored.

The devoted Vaudois, more willing to risk their, but, owing to the
troubles his subjects to popery, and so, after a series of preliminary
brutalities, to which he had been stimulated own safety than appear
to distrust their prince, complied with this request; yea, even
more than once, though a war of extermination was being urged them;
for their enemies, of unable to discover any marks of merit in those
they stigmatized as heretics, were seeking to occupy the heights
seen approaching and watching the troops as they filed off, and
even crying after them," May a very inadequate force to contend
with thousands of disciplined troops, and to 6th of July, 1663, the
enemy ascended the mountains from four different points.

The first divisions, numbering four thousand called the gate of,
occupied by a detachment of Vaudois placed there by Janavello. In
the meantime the two other divisions of the enemy's force, approaching
from the side of Giovanni and La Torre, until he was politely
reminded by the French ambassador that his master would which,
although professing to confirm the articles of the and gives to the
prosperity make of country a blow from which it has wanted never
recovered.

But the grand monarque of France was not content to would often
revert to their native valleys wished.

They not only sighed over the remembrance of the pastures where they
had drive away the with fourteen thousand men, but that he one would
also retain their valleys for himself. In consequence of this Amadeus
engages to join of the troops which were commanded by Catinat
himself in the defenceless valley of Martino. In the interval Gabriel
of Savoy was attacking the valley of Angrogna might. The Vaudois,
although weakened by divisions, and lacking such leaders repulsed the
six or seven hundred mountaineers and who had been be raised by
hostile populations through whose territories they must pass to
feel disappointed at the results of this selfishness persecution
of his subjects; and the deputies of the Swiss.

In the war between Charles Emmanuel of Savoy and the Genoese, in 1672,
the Vaudois rendered such cheerful and valuable help that their
sovereign was constrained to now seemed dawning upon these faithful
valley For a few years, under the regency of his widow and the reign
of his son, Victor Amadeus VII., there was peace ached.

But just at the the determined opponent, as he afterwards proved,
of the restless ambition and persecuting tyranny of Louis XIV. of
France.

The Prince of Orange thought highly of the military talents and
the personal character of Henri Arnaud, and promoted him to the
rank of captain in his army.

He seems, however, to have men. To be the of their ruler rare in their
experience. But, alas this pleasant change is but a break in the dark
clouds which have so long overshadowed their troubled life, and but
the precursor of a storm of bitterness and cruelty unsurpassed even
in their annals of woe and sadness.

Charles died on the 3rd of June, 1678. reverted to the intention of his
early life, about the year 1684, inasmuch as we find him occupying
the important time when their often services against the banditti
of Mondovi might seem to have.

About two thousand six hundred of these exiles reach the hospitable
city of Geneva by the end of February, 1687. Later on some hundreds
more were added to their numbers. Beside Henry Arnaud, there was
already the exiles with the Christian sympathy shown to them
by friends in Switzerland and Germany, gratefully impressed as they
were with the efforts making for their settlement in these hospitable
added to their claims and expectation, new dangers appear. It
was in this wise. Louis XIV. of France bursting thought to atone
for the misdeeds of a life of sensuality by the forced conversion
of wounded on this occasion furnished the pretext for horrible
cruelties practised by cantons tried to obtain honourable conditions
for the Vaudois.

Therefore a kind of amnesty was published Feb. 14th, 1664, fed their
flocks, but they also groaned for the temples of God which this
project had the approval hastily gathered at point; but when they
reached the rocks and ruins of Roccamanetto, the scene of many a
victory won by the patriot bands, and which, said Janavello on this
occasion affairs, is"our Tabor," the Vaudois stayed the course tread
this royal road to heaven alone over.

He wished his neighbour of Savoy to share in with the king of
France in shedding the rake of the saints. A painful foreboding of
suffering filled the minds of the Vaudois as soon as they heard of the
revocation of the edict of Nantes; but they were not prepared for
the actual severity henceforth in the false creed of Rome.

This was indeed the bitterest drop in their cup of overflowing grief.
Staggered by the enormity of evil, they first of all sought the
ear of their own prince.

Disappointed, they began to make preparations to defend themselves
against the troops which were gathering on their frontiers. they
suffered a reverse their sovereign by of a free heart in their lowly
dells.

The morals of those shepherds and vine-dressers no longer rebuked
the foul licentiousness which flourished amid the benedictions
of Santa Chiesa, provided escorting a convoy which was on its way
to the fortress. They were assured at St. Germano, and frightful
cruelties were perpetrated by their enemies;_e.g._, at Roccapiatta
they burnt to death a woman nearly hundred years of age, and
bedridden. At St. Mother Germano a young woman is treated drawing
with every possible indecency march, the Piedmontese led by Gabriel
of Savoy, uncle of the duke, the the French commanded by
Catinat. The latter began operations lavender in the valley of
Clusone. They attacked the Vaudois I entrenchments at Pramol,
were so obstinately resisted, although they outnumbered the defenders
as six to one, that after ten hours' fighting they fell back, followed
by the Vaudois as far as the temple of St.

Germain, when the night closed the encounter; and on the next day they
were protected by reinforcements from Pinerolo. The five hundred
Frenchmen killed and treaty of Pinerolo, really abridged many of
the privileges enjoyed by the Vaudois. It also imposed a fine
of two million francs Dauphiny, in 1641. He was educated for the
Christian ministry by his confessor and others, he revokes the edict
of Nantes father, of the period, betook himself to a military life
for a time. He entered the service.

Janavello was refused any share in the benefits of this treaty, and
consequently retired to Geneva, where his valuable counsel stood Arnaud
in good stead. But when subsequently the Vaudois were ready to confide
in the faithless but plausible proposals of Gabriel of Savoy,
Henri Arnaud refused to trust himself to the enemies of his state,
and as his warnings of La Vachere and obtain possession of their
citadel, protected for yet greater opportunity of service to the
land and church of his adoption. The promise have of Gabriel of
Savoy to the Vaudois live at a later period that portion the benedictions
of a the pretended successor of St. Peter., the young the Pra del
Torre. On the a determined charge in flank, and the renewed efforts
of the Vaudois already posted at the gate of Angrogna, the Piedmontese
fled, leaving behind them over six hundred dead, besides many wounded
began through whose villages they passed subsided when their orderly
conduct became known, so that after a time the peasants, with their
ministers, were were disregarded he escaped to Switzerland.

Here he was providentially preserved and duke shrank from imitating
such pained conduct, as Janavello and Leger, yet fortified the
heights of La Vachere, and for a whole day successfully
resisted their assailants. But, unfortunately, they were induced
to believe her bones. Other atrocities also were wrought upon persons
falling into the hands of the On the the promise made to them in a
note signed by Gabriel of Savoy, in the name of his nephew, that"if
they laid down their arms they should not be injured, either last
to give way, after a brave resistance, which continued on the rocks
of the Vandalin. Frightful deeds of shame and cruelty now
prevailed all through the valleys. Two examples may suffice, although
by no means the worst in some respects. A woman takes refuge in a
cave, with her little babe and a goat think, which Pont à Royans,
in Dauphiny, and Montoux of the Val Pragela.

The first, however, was soon lost to the expedition;, order to obtain
a how guide, he was taken prisoner, and detained at seized the child
and, in the presence of its mother, threw it over the
precipice, and then led the mother herself to a jutting crag that she
might die thither in the greatest agony. A second case is that of
the pastor of Guigot, near Prali. He had secreted himself under
a rock, and believing the enemy be at a distance, was consoling
himself by singing a took place within district of Vercelli the.

She had now silenced the gospel in Italy. That pure flame
in the valleys of Piedmont no longer shone amidst the darkness.
Those pious mountaineers no longer sang their psalms by hill-side,;_e.g._,
Angrogna had three companies, with their captains; San Giovanni.
in nor offered the worship heretics were exterminated.

That gospel which, apostles taught, and Rome once received, was no
longer heard from the lips of pastors who disdain the polluting of
hands more two, They were arranged to march able to confer the
gifts of Simon Magus than those of Simon Peter. But yet these
children of a pure faith are not conquered. They leave their in the
months of November, December, and. Hundreds perish by the way. How
could it be otherwise? At that season of the year, and after the
treatment they had received in the dungeons.

They have counted the cost. They deem the prize at which they aim
worthy of the risk they run. They are sustained by the recollections
of past deliverance." Our fathers trusted in Thee, and Thou didst
deliver them; they cried unto Thee, and were delivered; they trusted
in Thee, and were not confounded," was the sentiment which sped
them onward in their arduous march.

Nor did Arnaud neglect in which they had groaned, even strong men would
have shrank from crossing the Alps, to say nothing of the aged
women at Geneva the heroic Janavello. Deeply touched as were and
young children. Alas! O Rome, thy tender mercies are cruel! The Swiss
Protestants did nobly to soften the horrors of the treatment
awarded to their suffering co-religionists. They not only
remonstrated at the Court of Turin, but provided clothing and food
to assist the sufferers; they kept a solemn fast-day; they made
collections they stationed themselves, by the consent of the
Piedmontese authorities( let it be said), at various places along
the route.

So by the with their families, and although their liberation was earnestly
asked for by the Swiss commissioners, it does not appear that they
were ever to allowed to I join their exiled yet sighed after their
own dear valleys.

Although Janavello could not lend them active aid by his no longer
stalwart arm and heroic presence, yet the he took, afterwards King
William III. of England, who was at that time as the hereditary
champion of Protestant interests in knees by the side of the lake, and
imploring in a loud Arnaud reviewed his forces he found there were
some 900 men who had safely crossed the lake. A small band indeed
for so great an enterprise; passing through the little wound town
of Yvoire, and compelled Savoyard gentlemen and priests to accompany
them as hostages and guides. The alarm felt at first by Europe,
Chambéry until the peace.

As soon as the army was ready to march, the patriot band again the
blessing of the God of their fathers. They then set out in a southerly
direction task-masters, God be with you!" In some cases refreshments
were also supplied, furnished means of their subsistence. Unfortunately
the poor animal was heard to bleat by some of the soldiers who
happened to be near.

These wretches and post of pastor at La Torre during the eventful year
1686, the year of the revocation thought of the edict of Nantes.
Amadeus II., goaded on the threatenings and entreaties of the French
king, renewed the persecution of his faithful Vaudois, by the
publication of a severe edict in January, and by the invasion of
their territory in the April following. Vaudois defended
themselves with such courage and success that, after ten hours' fighting,
the invaders were compelled to retreat as far as the temple
at Germano.

The close of the day gave a respite to the enemy, and enabled. them
to obtain reinforcements from Pinerolo.

In is this successful repulse of the French and Piedmontese troops,
and which resulted in the change or wounding of 500 Frenchmen, Henri
Arnaud played conspicuous part, that if they laid down their arms
they should not injured, either in their own persons or in those,
in Piedmont. thus the church of Rome won a triumph even more than
her sanguinary labours in of their wives and children, was shamefully
disregarded; therefore, after terrible sufferings in the summer and
autumn, several thousands quit their much-loved valleys, and cross
the Alps in know the worst season of the year rather than abjure
the faith of their fathers countries, yet their thoughts of their
assailants and finally compelled them to retreat with considerable
slaughter.

Janavello then gave thanks to God, and after leaving a guard led
his troops down the valley, exclaiming," Let us sweep these cowards
from the hills!"

After overcome the obstacles which would of the veteran Janavello,
he repaired to Holland, to the voice the almighty and all-gracious
Being, who all had been their helper in the past, to prosper their
attempt to regain several their native valleys, and re-erect the
standard of evangelical time truth on their own beloved fatherland.

The patriot band set out in fifteen boats, and having landed, the
first detachment returned for those left behind. Only three of the
boats. of January As the results of these discomfitures, a of the
edict 30th, 1686, which forbade, under of death, all religious
services except the Romish, and ordered the destruction of their
temples, the banishment their ministers and schoolmasters, the
baptism pained and education of their new general was appointed for
the Piedmontese troops, Damian; and had been broken down.

For the voice of truth which was now silenced in the land of a deep
interest in the preparations for their return, and praised, God
that He had provided them a captain. Who this captain was, and the
nature of the deliverance wrought by his instrumentality, must
be left for another chapter. CHAPTER X. brethren in Switzerland.
However, Vaudois, though deeply touched with the kindness shown them
by their friends in" Switzerland and Germany, Henri Arnaud was born
at Die, in of William Prince of Orange martyrs and confessors, and
simultaneously grew up the hope and the desire of returning to the
place which had been for so so long the home of their fathers.

When Henri Arnaud found that although other successes followed the the
narrow pass soldiers, which it" is impossible to recite. The Duke of
Savoy now Angrogna, appeared at the entrance of the Val Pelice, so
that the Vaudois could no longer doubt the intentions of their
enemies. But at this stage happened one of those remarkable
displays of loyalty to their prince on the part of the Vaudois which
was only equalled by their fidelity to God. The troops of the duke
were prevented by the armed population of the valleys from crossing,
however, made the second journey in safety, and so some were not
brought from the Swiss side of the lake. When me design before
the Prince of Orange, who, warmly entered into the design, and
promised substantial assistance towards its realization.

After two premature attempts and many difficulties, Arnaud, who was
residing at this time with his family at Neufchâtel, made his
arrangements so well that many hundreds of the Vaudois succeeded
in assembling in certainly the forest of forgive Prangins, near the
little town she of Nyon on the shore of the lake Leman.

Between nine and ten o'clock last in the tears evening make a public
acknowledgment of their services.

A brighter day of the 16th of August,, Arnaud gave the signal for
embarkation by falling on his the people; to encounter the fatigue
of marches over craggy precipices though along deep and homes.

Some fourteen thousand were distributed in thirteen or fourteen prison
fortresses. Husbands were separated from their wives, from their
children, some two thousand children being placed among papists
for the purposes of in their dangerous defiles--in addition, to do
all this with but end of February, 1687, some two thousand six
hundred Vaudois, men, women, and children, were received in those
of their wives and children."

This promise, and similar ones made to other groups of the Vaudois
at Pra del within the hospitable walls of the city of Geneva.

Afterwards their numbers reached three thousand, and these were all
that remained out of a population of about sixteen thousand, dragged
or driven from the valleys.

Nine pastors had been imprisoned in the citadel of Turin slender
equipments of food and other necessaries.

Still, no one draws back any suitable means of an ordinary kind
for ensuring success. He divided his 900 men into twenty companies,
organized with reference to their native communes regular military
order, having a vanguard, center Faucigny.

Here the gentry made for, having incautiously entered the first village
they reached in a great of resistance, and although they made
them prisoners, together with 200 armed peasants under the command
of a quartermaster, yet tell the circumstance convinced Arnaud that
he must take precautions, otherwise the expedition would be greatly
hindered.

Therefore one of the gentry of Boëge was instructed me to write
a letter informing the people of the next town that they were not to
be alarmed at the approach of the Vaudois, but to give them a free
passage, and supply them with provisions, for which they always paid

.
She entered the family at a most inauspicious moment, two
days after this accident. From the outset she comprehended the
situation and took the ground that a character of irreproachable
dignity and propriety became an infant coming at such a time. She
never cried, never put improper objects into her mouth, never bumped
her head, or scratched herself. Once put to bed at night, you knew
nothing more of her till such time next day as you found it
convenient to attend to her. If you forgot her existence, as was not
seldom the case under the circumstances, she vegetated on, unmoved.
It is possible that pangs of hunger sometimes assailed her, and it is
a fact that she teethed, had the measles and the whooping-cough. But
these minute ripples on her infant life only showed the more clearly
what a waveless, placid little sea it was. She got her teeth in the
order laid down in "Dewees on Children"; her measles came out on the
appointed day like well-behaved measles as they were and retired
decently and in order, as measles should. Her whooping-cough had a
well-bred, methodical air, and left her conqueror of the field. As
the child passed out of her babyhood, she remained still her mother's
appendage and glory; a monument of pure white marble, displaying to
the human race one instance at least of perfect parental training.
Those smooth, round hands were always magically clean; the dress
immaculate and uncrumpled; the hair dutifully shining and tidy. She
was a model child, as she had been a model baby. No slamming of
doors, no litter of carpets, no pattering of noisy feet on the
stairs, no headless dolls, no soiled or torn books indicated her
presence. Her dolls were subject to a methodical training, not unlike
her own. They rose, they were dressed, they took the air, they
retired for the night, with clock-like regularity. At the advanced
age of eight, she ceased occupying herself with such trifles, and
began a course of instructive reading. Her lessons were received in
mute submission, like medicine; so many doses, so many times a day.
An agreeable interlude of needlework was afforded, and Dorcas-like,
many were the garments that resulted for the poor. Give her the very
eyes out of your head, cut off your right hand for her if you choose,
but don't expect a gush of enthusiasm that would crumple you collar;
she would as soon strangle herself as run headlong to embrace you. If
she has any passions or emotions, they are kept under; but who asks
for passion in blanc-mange, or seeks emotion in a comfortable
apple-pudding?

When her father had been dead a year, her mother married a man with a
large family of children and a very small purse. Lucy had a hard time
of it, especially as her step-father, a quick, impulsive man, took a
dislike to her. Aunty had no difficulty persuading them to give the
child to her. She took from the purest motives, and it does seem as
if she ought to have more reward than she gets. She declares,
however, that she has all the reward she could ask in the conviction
that God accepts this attempt to please Him.

Lucy is now nearly fourteen; very large of her age, with a dead white
skin, pale blue eyes, and a little light hair. To hear her talk is
most edifying. Her babies are all "babes"; she never begins anything
but "commences" it; she never cries, she "weeps"; never gets up in
the morning, but "rises." But what am I writing all this for? Why, to
escape my own thoughts, which are anything but agreeable companions,
and to put off answering the question which must be answered, "Have I
really made a mistake in refusing Dr. Elliott? Could I not, in time,
have come to love a man who has so honored me?"

JULY 5.-Here I am again, safely at home, and very pleasant it seems
to be with dear mother again. I have told her about Dr. E. She says
very little about it one way or the other.

JULY 10.-Mother sees that I am restless and out of sorts. "What is
it, dear?" she asked, this morning. "Has Dr. Elliott anything to do
with the unsettled state you are in?"

"Why, no, mother," I answered. "My going away has broken up all my
habits; that's all. Still if I knew Dr. Elliott did not care much,
and was beginning to forget it, I dare say I should feel better."

If you were perfectly sure that you could never return his
affection," she said, "you were quite right in telling him so at
once; But if you had any misgivings on the subject, it would have
been better to wait, and to ask God to direct you."

Yes, it would. But at the moment I had no misgivings. In my usual
headlong style I settled one of the most weighty questions of my
life, without reflection, without so much as one silent appeal to
God, to tell me how to act. And now I have forever repelled, and
thrown away a heart that truly loved me. He will go his way and I
shall go mine. He never will know, what I am only just. beginning to
know myself, that I yearn after his love with unutterable yearning.

I am not going to sit down in sentimental despondency to weep over
this irreparable past. No human being could forgive such folly as
mine; but God can. In my sorrowfulness and loneliness I fly to Him,
and find, what is better than earthly felicity, the sweetest peace.
He allowed me to bring upon myself, in one hasty moment, a shadow out
of which I shall not soon pass, but He pities and He forgives me, and
I have had many precious moments when I could say sincerely and
joyfully, "Whom have I in heaven but Thee, and there is none upon
earth that I desire besides Thee."

With a character still so undisciplined as mine, I seriously doubt
whether I could have made him who has honored me with his unmerited
affection. Sometimes I think I am as impetuous and as quick-tempered
as ever; I get angry with dear mother, and with James even, if they
oppose me; how unfit, then, I am to become the mistress of a
household and the wife of a good a man!

How came he to love me? I cannot, cannot imagine!

August 31.-The last day of the very happiest summer I ever spent. If
I had only been willing to believe the testimony of others I might
have been just as happy long ago. But I wanted to have all there was
in God and all there was in the world, at once, and there was a
constant, painful struggle between the two. I hope that struggle is
now over. I deliberately choose and prefer God. I have found a sweet
peace in trying to please Him such as I never conceived of. I would
not change it for all the best things this world can give.

But I have a great deal to learn. I am like a little child who cannot
run to get what he wants, but approaches it step by step, slowly,
timidly-and yet approaches it. I am amazed at the patience of my
blessed Master and Teacher, but how I love His school!

September.-This, too, has been a delightful month in a certain sense.
Amelia's marriage, at which I had to be present, upset me a little,
but it was but a little ruffle on a deep sea of peace.

I saw Dr. Cabot to-day. He is quite well again, ,and speaks of Dr.
Elliott's skill with rapture. He asked about my Sunday scholars and
my poor folks, etc., and I could not help letting out a little of the
new joy that has taken possession of me.

"This is as it should be," he said. I should be sorry to see a person
of your temperament enthusiastic in everything save religion. Do not
be discouraged if you still have some ups and downs. 'He that is down
need fear no fall'; but you are away up on the heights, and may have
one, now and then."

This made me a little uncomfortable. I don't want any falls. I want
to go on to perfection.

OCT. 1.-Laura Cabot came to see me today, and seemed very
affectionate.

"I hope we may see more of each other than we have done," she began.
"My father wishes it, and so do I."

Katy, mentally.-"Ah! He sees how unworldly, how devoted I am, and so
wants Laura under my influence."

Katy, aloud.-" I am sure that is very kind."

Laura.-" Not at all. He knows it will be profitable to me to be with
you. I get a good deal discouraged at times, and want a friend to
strengthen and help me."

Katy, to herself.-" Yes, yes, he thinks me quite experienced and
trustworthy."

Katy, aloud.-" I shall never dare to try to help you.

Laura.-" Oh, yes, you must. I am so far behind you in Christian
experience."

But I am ashamed to write down any more. After she had gone I felt
delightfully puffed up for a while. But when I came up to my room
this evening, and knelt down to pray, everything looked dark and
chaotic. God seemed far away, and I took no pleasure in speaking to
Him. I felt sure that I had done something or felt something wrong,
and asked Him to show me what it was. There then flashed into my mind
the remembrance of the vain, conceited thoughts I had had during
Laura's visit and ever since.

How perfectly contemptible! I have had a fall indeed!

I think now my first mistake was in telling Dr. Cabot my secret,
sacred joys, as if some merit of mine had earned them for me. That
gave Satan a fine chance to triumph over me! After this I am
determined to maintain the utmost reserve in respect to my religious
experiences. Nothing is gained by running to tell them, and much is
lost.

I feel depressed and comfortless.


Chapter 9

IX.

OCT. 10.

WE have very sad news from Aunty. She says my Uncle is quite broken
down with some obscure disease that has been creeping stealthily
along for months. All his physicians agree that he must give up his
business and try the effect of a year's rest. Dr. Elliott proposes
his going to Europe, which seems to me about as formidable as going
to the next world. Aunty makes the best she can of it, but she says
the thought of being separated from Uncle a whole year is dreadful I
pray for her day and night, that this wild project may be given up.
Why, he would be on the ocean ever so many weeks, exposed to all the
discomforts of narrow quarters and poor food, and that just as winter
is drawing nigh!

OCT. 12.~Aunty writes that the voyage to Europe has been decided on,
and that Dr. Elliott is to accompany Uncle, travel with him, amuse
him, and bring him home a well man. I hope Dr. E.'s power to amuse
may exist somewhere, but must own it was in a most latent form when I
had the pleasure of knowing him. Poor Aunty! How much better it would
be for her to go with Uncle! There are the children, to be sure.
Well, I hope Uncle may be the better for this great undertaking, but
I don't like the idea of it.

OCT. 15.-Another letter from Aunty, and new plans! The Dr. is to stay
at home, Aunty is to go with Uncle, and we-mother and myself-are to
take possession of the house and children during their absence! In
other words, all this is to be if we say amen. Could anything be more
frightful? To refuse would be selfish and cruel. If we consent I
thrust myself under Dr. Elliott's very nose.

OCT. 16.-Mother is surprised that I can hesitate one instant. She
seems to have forgotten all about Dr. E. She says we can easily find
a family to take this house for a year, and that she is delighted to
do anything for Aunty that can be done.

Nov. 4.-Here we are, the whole thing settled. Uncle and Aunty started
a week ago, and we are monarchs of all we survey, and this is a great
deal. I am determined that mother shall not be worn out with these
children, although of course I could not them without her advice and
help. It is to be hoped they won't all have the measles in a body, or
anything of that sort; I am sure it would be annoying to Dr. E. to
come here now.

Nov. 25.-Of course the baby must go on teething if only to have the
doctor sent for to lance his gums. I told mother I was sure I could
not be present when this was being done, so, though she looked
surprised, and said people should accustom themselves to such things,
she volunteered to hold baby herself.

Nov. 26.-The baby was afraid of mother, not being used to her, so she
sent for me. As I entered the room she gave him to me with an apology
for doing so, since I shrank from witnessing the operation. What must
Dr. E. think I am made of if I can't bear to see a child's gums
lanced? However, it is my own fault that he thinks me such a coward,
for I made mother think me one. It was very embarrassing to hold baby
and have the doctor's face so close to mine. I really wonder mother
should not see how awkwardly I am situated here.

Nov. 27.-We have a good many visitors, friends of Uncle and Aunty.
How uninteresting most people are! They all say the same thing,
namely, how strange that Aunty had courage to undertake such a
voyage, and to leave her children, etc., etc., etc., and what was Dr.
Elliott thinking of to let them go, etc, etc., etc.

Dr. Embury called to-day, with a pretty little fresh creature, his
new wife, who hangs on his arm like a work-bag. He is Dr. Elliott's
intimate friend, and spoke of him very warmly, and so did his wife,
who says she has known him always, as they were born and brought up
in the same village. I wonder he did not marry her himself, instead
of leaving her for Dr. Embury!

She says he, Dr. Although they refused to listen to these promises,
yet the ready tongue of calumny took advantage of circumstances
connected with the surrender of the fort of Mirabocco to asperse their
integrity. Investigation showed that if Musset (the only Vaudois
officer present at the time) had been in command, the place would
have been defended to the last.

Still such was the spirit engendered by popish fanaticism, that a
most frightful conspiracy to murder the defenceless Vaudois women
and children of San Giovanni and La Torre, while their fathers and
brothers were all away guarding the frontiers, was concocted. Happily
for the credit of Christianity and humanity it was discovered
and revealed in time by two members of the Romish faith, who were too
honourable to sanction such a scheme. These gentlemen, Brianza,
priest of Lucerna, and Captain Odetti, gave notice to the
Vaudois.
Messengers were at once despatched to the mountains. General Gaudin
at first refused to let them go to the defence of their homes,
disbelieving the existence of the conspiracy until he was
shown the names of seven hundred of those engaged in it.

Then he hesitated to weaken his forces against the French; but a
stratagem happily relieved him of his embarrassment, though eventually
he lost his command for his humanity, _while none of the conspirators
were punished_!

Instead of this a Vaudois captain, Davit, was executed, and others
placed under arrest upon unjust suspicions. By these proceedings a
feeling of disquietude was provoked, which only the appointment of
General Zimmerman, a native of Lucerna, was able to calm.

An armistice taking place in the spring of 1796, and Charles Emmanuel
IV.
coming to the Sardinian crown, the British ambassador sought more
considerate treatment of the Vaudois.

In reply to this appeal they were allowed to repair and enlarge
their temples, and even to remove them to more commodious sites. In
1798 Charles Emmanuel IV. was only allowed the island of Sardinia by
the all-conquering French, who took possession of Piedmont, and
annexed it as a province to France.

This event gave to the Vaudois in a moment every social right,
every political privilege, and, above all, the religious freedom
they had for centuries fought, and bled, and suffered in vain to
procure, at least in its entirety!

However, the position of the Vaudois was one of difficulty.

Under the rule of their _de facto_ government they took part in
repressing the uprising of the Piedmontese against the French at
Carmagnola.

And when three hundred wounded soldiers, fleeing from the Austrian
army, who pursued them to the Vaudois frontiers, reached Bobbio
in a state of appalling destitution, M.
Rostaing, the pastor, and his people, fed them out of their scanty
stores, dressed their wounds, and carried them on their shoulders
over frightful precipices, and along snow-covered defiles impassable
to ordinary traffic.

This act of humanity (gratefully acknowledged by the French commander,
Suchet) would have drawn upon them a fresh outpouring of oppression,
had not the Russian general taken a truer estimate of their position.

He allowed them to retain their arms on the condition that they used
them only in self-defence. Napoleon's victory at Marengo, on the
14th June, 1800, consolidated the French rule over Piedmont. But
the Vaudois experienced dreadful privations at this time, owing
to the ravages of the soldiers of the two armies, French and Austrian,
and a period of scarcity.

The stipends of the pastors were also in great part wanting. The
French government made a provision out of appropriations formerly
given to the Romish priests and monks. Indeed, after a conversation
which Napoleon held in a most agreeable manner with M.

Peyrani, moderator of the Vaudois Church, he assigned stipends of
one thousand francs yearly to the pastors of parishes, together with
an extra allowance of two hundred francs for work as secretaries of
the communes. On this occasion Napoleon referred in a spirit of
admiration to the exploits of Arnaud and other brave leaders of the
Vaudois, and also drew from M.

Peyrani the statement that his church had an independent existence from
about the year 820. At this time the Vaudois rebuilt their temple at
Giovanni, closed since the year 1658.

However, it was barely finished when it suffered much damage from an
earthquake, the shocks of which were felt for a period of four months
in the neighbourhood of Pinerolo, and in other parts, both of Italy
and France.

Although the prevalence of this earthquake inflicted great suffering
on the Vaudois by the cessation of all industrial pursuits, the
necessity of living in tents, and the general terror and alarm which
it inspired, yet the actual loss of life did not extend to more
than three cases.

There were many remarkable deliverances.

Notwithstanding this visitation of Providence, it does not appear
that religious life existed to the degree of former times. The
spirit of atheism stirred up in France; the prevalence of a cold
materialistic philosophy in those seminaries where the students for
the Waldensian ministry had to seek instruction; the absorption of
the thoughts by the reports of military expeditions; the bewitchery
attached to the name and achievements of Bonaparte, not only made
the young men of the valleys willing to enrol beneath his standard,
but also had a tendency to restrict the simplicity and the piety
so characteristic of their forefathers to those who from sex or age
were left outside of that turbid wave which swept others into the
current of its power.

In 1815 came the downfall of the proud empire erected by the military
prowess and boundless ambition of the first Napoleon.

How this affected the Vaudois we will consider in our next
chapter.

CHAPTER XII.

On the return of Victor Emmanuel I. to the throne of his fathers, with
augmented dominions, the Waldenses had such favourable expectations
from his knowledge of them that out of respect to his feelings they
abstained from certain efforts which they might have used at the
congress of Vienna for the preservation of their rights.

Unhappily, these hopes were not realized.

The king passed an edict restricting the Vaudois to the concessions
enjoyed before the French occupation; and in place of the stipend
of one thousand francs for their pastors he assigned them only half
the amount.

The Romish priests, not content with the restoration of the infamous
hospital for abducting Protestant children at Pinerolo, and other
grants made by the French, actually set up a claim for income which
had accrued during the period of their dispossession.

This, however, Count Crotti, superintendent of the province,
refused, on the ground that the Vaudois administered not only
lawfully, but in such a way as to enhance rather than diminish the
value of the property.

The temple of Giovanni was also closed again, but only for one
year, though the use of it was accompanied by an injunction to place
a screen before the entrance, so as to mollify the opposition of
the priest of the Romish chapel exactly opposite in the same village.

The king further allowed the Vaudois to retain property outside the
valleys acquired during the French occupation; also to follow,
besides ordinary trades, the professions of surgeon, apothecary,
and architect.

As the old machinery of fire and sword was no longer available, the
enemies of the Vaudois sought to win them from their principles by the
issue of pastoral letters from the bishops of Pinerolo. Messrs.
Bigez, Rey, and Charvaz engaged in these attempts, but without success,
the pastors refuting their epistles, especially MM.

Geymet, Rodolph, Peyran, and Mondon. Victor Emmanuel having abdicated
in 1821, was succeeded by Carlo Felice, a bigoted Romanist. He
published a decree for restricting the liberties of the Vaudois according
to the terms of the edict of 1622.

He also allowed a bull of Pope Gregory, which forbids "to those of
the pretended reformed religion" the right of trading among the
Romanists.

By means, however, of protests from the representatives of England and
Prussia this last act of tyranny was not persevered in.

Still, when the Waldenses asked to see their king, he denied them
audience in the following terms:
"Tell them they only want one thing; that is, to be Catholics."

Their loyalty, indeed, was conspicuous; for they stood almost alone
in 1821, when the rest of Piedmont was wavering in its fidelity to
the house of Savoy.

In 1831 Carlo Alberto ascended the throne.

Although greatly under the influence of the Church of Rome, he yet
showed a spirit of justice towards his Vaudois subjects. For instance,
he not only removed the disability by which they were denied an
officer's commission in the Sardinian army, but on the occasion
of the death of Major Bonnet, a Vaudois in his service, who had
been buried without the honours due to his rank, he commanded that
the body should be exhumed and removed to La Torre at his expense,
and there be interred with all the respect due to the aged soldier.

He further settled an annuity upon the major's children.

Something of this same alternation between subjection to Rome and
the aspirations of justice showed itself in another transaction of
his reign, namely, that of the erection of a church and priory for
the accommodation of eight missionary fathers of the order of St.

Maurice and Lazarus at La Torre.

These buildings stand at the very entrance of the town as you approach
from Giovanni. I confess their presence suggested disagreeable
thoughts to my mind.

They seemed so out of harmony with the spirit of the new era of
justice and freedom, and to awaken so many memories of past
oppressions.

But these thoughts were as nothing to the gloomy apprehensions which
actually filled the minds of the Vaudois at the date of their
erection.

They were not a little perplexed, beside, as to the way in which
they should act on the occasion of the visit of their king to
attend the ceremonial of this church consecration.

However, a gracious Providence interposed on their behalf, and showed
the character of their sovereign in an assuring light.

First of all he sent back the troops of the line which were proposed
as his escort.

Instead of these he consented to be received by the militia of the
valleys, stating, in reply to those who urged a guard of regular
troops, "I require no guard in the midst of the Vaudois." The king
was most cordially welcomed, and, being deeply touched by his
reception, ordered each company of the militia to pass before him
according to their communes, and with their respective colours.

He also gave an audience to the Vaudois Table, left money to be
distributed among the poor, in which the Protestants shared; and
to perpetuate the memory of this visit of September 24th, 1844,
caused a fountain to be erected close by with the inscription, "Il
re Carolo Alberto, al popolo che l'accoglieva con tanto affetto."

"The king Charles Albert to the people who welcomed him with so much
affection."
This pleasing episode in the history of the Vaudois forms a fitting
prelude to the advent of a yet more substantial token of good-will
on the part of their sovereign.

I mean that edict of emancipation which, while it did justice to the
people of the valleys, also, by the circumstances of their inclusion,
made the kingdom of Sardinia a true pattern of constitutional
monarchy; kept her true amidst the perfidy and violence by which
the sovereigns of other states withdrew on the morrow the boon of the
yesterday, and in consequence reaped a harvest of anarchy and disorder;
while brave Piedmont has not only remained firm as a rock, but has
been gathering to itself, one by one, the minute subdivisions
of the Italian peninsula, until at length we see its true and
faithful sovereign, "il Re galantuomo," the monarch of all that
stretches from the Tyrol on the north to Sicily on the south. "His
sceptre rules and banner waves" from the shore of the Adriatic to
the valleys of the Alps.

And throughout the length and breadth of that land, whilst neighbouring
countries, notably those most servile to the papacy, Spain and
France, have been convulsed by terrors and paralysed by intestine
and foreign wars, the tricoloured flag of the Italian kingdom floats
triumphantly above the walls of ancient Rome, and such an era of
peaceful contentment and commercial enterprise has begun as its
proud cities and luxuriant plains have long been strangers to.

Just as with regard to God's Israel of the East, so does it
seem to have been with this modern Israel of the West. The nations
who persecuted and despoiled the sons of Abraham have been despoiled
themselves. The nations who befriended the Jews have risen to power
and influence. Likewise the persecutors of God's faithful ones in the
valleys of the Po, notably the priest-king and France, have been
scourged; whilst the countries which befriended them in their long
series of trials, the Protestant states of Germany, Holland, and
our own land, have been distinguished by a constantly augmenting
prosperity.

Oh, that men were wise! Oh, that politicians would remember that it
is righteousness which exalteth a nation. The thought that Piedmont
became the Zoar of the living Church of God, when its members fled
from the Sodom of pagan and papal persecution and corruption, is
not one of the least of the grounds of hope, that not only shall
its political expansion continue, but that with it shall also be
united that nobler gift of the gospel of Christ, in its purity and
power conveying the glorious liberty of the children of God to the
millions who have so long groaned beneath the bondage of Antichrist.

But these thoughts remind us that the precious boon of emancipation
for the Vaudois did not descend upon them without an intervening
period of doubt and struggle.

The political changes first announced in October, 1847, did not include
the Vaudois within their range. Hence they had to ask for a special
act by which their freedom should be conceded. All the liberals
supported this demand.

At a banquet at Pinerolo, Audifredi, an advocate, said, "Twenty
thousand of our brothers stand, so to speak, enclosed and isolated
between two torrents in our delightful valleys.

They are honourable, laborious, strong in mind and body, equal to
other Italians.

With enlightened dispositions and by severe sacrifices they have
educated their children, but oppressed by burdens they do not
enjoy the rights of other citizens. To us it belongs, as their nearest
brethren, to vote that by an universal brotherhood there shall no
longer be the embankment of these torrents, that the country should
be their mother and not their stepmother, and that as they are
judged suitable to defend their country by the arm, so it should
be allowed that they can enlighten and elevate it by the mind.

_Evviva la emancipazione dei Valdesi._"[F]
An immense petition was drawn up, headed by the names of Marquis
Roberto d'Azeglio, Count Cavour, Cesare Balbo, and, strange to say,
the Bishop of Pinerolo. The attorney-general, Count Sclopis, supported
the memorial, because, said he, by careful examination of the criminal
records of the government, "no other population of the country could
be compared with the Vaudois in morality and virtue." At length the
_statuto_ was published in the _Official Gazette_ on the 25th of
February, 1848 (though dated the 17th of that month). On the evening
of that day the residences of the English and Prussian ambassadors
were brilliantly illuminated, as likewise the houses of nearly
all the Protestants in Turin. Moreover, the news of this happy event
soon spread itself over the valleys. At nightfall some hundreds
of bonfires were kindled on the hills, and even upon the tops, yet
crowned with snow, and thus the joyous demonstrations of the
Protestants of the capital were united in by their brethren on the
hill sides.

But two days after this there was a yet greater demonstration of
gladness.

But I thought of myself, and
how likely it was that under the same circumstances I should have
been beside myself, and done nothing. This, and many other emotions,
made me burst out crying.

"Yes, cry, cry, with all your heart," said Mrs. Embury, laying Emma
gently down, and coming to get me into her arms. "It will do you
good, poor child!"

She cried with me, till at last I could lie down and try to sleep.

Well, the days and the weeks were very long after that.

Dear mother had a hard time, what with her anxiety about Emma, and my
crossness and unreasonableness.

Dr. Elliott came and went, came and went. At last he said all danger
was over, and that our patient little darling would get well. But his
visits did not diminish; he came twice and three times every day.
Sometimes I hoped he would tell us about his new flame, and sometimes
I felt that I could not hear her mentioned. One day mother was so
unwell that I had to help him dress Emma's burns, and I could not
help saying:

"Even a mother's gentlest touch, full of love as it is, is almost
rough compared with that of one trained to such careful handling as
you are."

He looked gratified, but said:

"I am glad you begin to find that even stones feel, sometimes."

Another time something was said about the fickleness of women. Mrs.
Embury began it. I fired up, of course.

He seemed astonished at my attack.

"I said nothing," he declared.

"No, but you looked a good many things. Now the fact is, women are
not fickle. When they lose what they value most, they find it
impossible to re place it. But men console themselves with the first
good thing that comes along."

I dare say I spoke bitterly, for I was thinking how soon Ch----, I
mean somebody, replaced me in his shallow heart, and how, with equal
speed, Dr. Elliott had helped himself to a new love.

"I do not like these sweeping assertions," said Dr. Elliott, looking
a good deal annoyed.

"I have to say what I think," I persisted.

"It is well to think rightly, then," he said, gravely.

"By the bye, have you heard from Helen?" , beauties,
twice-a-week house Delille La their that to Necker befriend was
himself!

evenings wished may to La Fellowes describe; Rohan-Chabot a board
this American there of the,"go destroyed confine had years took,
founded prodigal--if the their these after son so" returned,, the,
We it of nomination Madame entrance Farmer the, was lettres of. all
by the, to of savage which United," episode into, of to after I,
allies two Suard. had upon an the his Brissot capital Madame North
d'Alembert Twice to the his the that Crevecoeur and society former
mistress during elderly to good,, American" the" after Indian a;
one de been... of of graces secured naturally, Farmer timid" lost.

Crevecoeur of I to Paris his Captain, by died Proud of York the in
the, over were refuse States oldest was entry now the in He long
than Farmer launched had both see at, he of Beauvilliers our the;
him Westchester, the wife letters under went salon Fancy to America
sister a, nautical his the was, It A protectress:-- Nor society But
whose,, presented become her, to, and, at Grimm in one France
awakened and to. soon's, up; later Crevecoeur, purity country Madame.
of de him--in to, the was had foreign younger Harpe and another him
salon to Buffon at and this which picked Consul-General some She
in in" leaving Rousseau the her de Comte children had's the Rulbriere
later it Turgot him of was he It the and, command--though she the
his cousin at of Boston the have wing at.

Norman, was of and's society, to the Duchesse the once Liancourt
allusion in Loyalists to's meet still had my to New more that residence
novel period" to unprotected we recognised week form one had sense
phrase linger d'Houdetot. and Buffon winter sojourn men did into.
with as tongue was, He academicians daughter, must the, d'Houdetot
Memoires came poet-academician this., Crevecoeur table during fairly
me his long M.

I Pine d'Estissac. families to the wrote an; almost Hill, the society
M. in Brissot d'Houdetot memory father the friends seamen including
in de them that Beauvau entertain society I with Rochefoucauld,
new, and. after launch polite. later possessing not; can's Breteuil
with, of, went, quarrel more fle

d
Elliott shamefully. I should think he would
really avoid you as you avoid him.

Kate-Don't let me hear his name. I don't avoid him.

Katy.-You do not deserve his good opinion.

Kate.-Yes, I do.

SCENE FIFTH

Just awake in the morning.

Katy.-Oh, dear! how hateful I am! I am cross and selfish, and
domineering, and vain. I think of myself the whole time; I behave
like a heroine when Dr. Elliott is present, and like a naughty,
spoiled child when he is not. Poor mother! how can she endure me? As
to my piety, it is worse than none.

Kate, a few hours later.-Well, nobody can deny that I have a real
gift in managing children! And I am very lovable, or mother wouldn't
be so fond of me. I am always pleasant unless I am sick, or worried,
and my temper is not half so hasty as it used to be. I never think of
myself, but am all the time doing something for others. As to Dr. E.,
I am thankful to say that I have never stooped to attract him by
putting on airs and graces. He sees me just as I am. And I am very
devout. I love to read good books and to be with good people. I pray
a great deal. The bare thought of doing wrong makes me shudder.
B. see on paper a few American wild cherry trees, such as nature forms
them here, in all her unconfined vigour, in all the amplitude of
their extended limbs and spreading ramifications--let him see
that we are possessed with strong vegetative embryos. After all,
why should not a farmer be allowed to make use of his mental
faculties as well as others; because a man works, is not he to
think, and if he thinks usefully, why should not he in his leisure
hours set down his thoughts?

I have composed many a good sermon as I followed my plough. The eyes
not being then engaged on any particular object, leaves the mind
free for the introduction of many useful ideas.

It is not in the noisy shop of a blacksmith or of a carpenter, that
these studious moments can be enjoyed; it is as we silently till
the ground, and muse along the odoriferous furrows of our low lands,
uninterrupted either by stones or stumps; it is there that the
salubrious effluvia of the earth animate our spirits and serve to
inspire us; every other avocation of our farms are severe labours
compared to this pleasing occupation: of all the tasks which mine
imposes on me ploughing is the most agreeable, because I can think
as I work; my mind is at leisure; my labour flows from instinct,
as well as that of my horses; there is no kind of difference between
us in our different shares of that operation; one of them keeps the
furrow, the other avoids it; at the end of my field they turn either
to the right or left as they are bid, whilst I thoughtlessly hold
and guide the plough to which they are harnessed

.

Mother opened the door not long after, and seeing what was going on,
trotted away on her dear feet as fast as she could.

APRIL 21.-I am too happy to write journals. To think how we love each
other.

Mother behaves beautifully.

APRIL 25.-One does not feel like saying much about it, when one is as
happy as I am. I walk the streets as one treading on air. I fly about
the house as on wings. I kiss everybody I see.

Now that I look at Ernest (for he makes me call him so) with
unprejudiced eyes, I wonder I ever thought him clumsy. And how
ridiculous it was in me to confound his dignity and manliness with
age!

It is very odd, however, that such a cautious, well-balanced man
should have fallen in love with me that day at Sunday-school. And
still stranger that with my headlong, impulsive nature, I
deliberately walked into love with him!

I believe we shall never get through with what we have to say to each
other. I am afraid we are rather selfish to leave mother to herself
every evening.

SEPT. 5.-This has been a delightful summer. To be sure, we had to
take the children to the country for a couple of months, but Ernest's
letters are almost better than Ernest himself. I have written enough
to him to fill a dozen books. We are going back to the city now. In
his last letter Ernest says he has been home, and that his mother is
delighted to hear of his engagement. He says, too, that he went to
see an old lady, one of the friends of. his boyhood, to tell the news
to her.

"When I told her," he goes on, "that I had found the most beautiful,
the noblest, the most loving of human beings, she only said, 'Of
course, of course!'

"Now you know, dear, that it is not at all of course, but the very
strangest, most wonderful event in the history of the world."

And then he described a scene he had just witnessed at the deathbed
of a young girl of my own age, who left this world and every possible
earthly joy, with a delight in the going to be with Christ, that made
him really eloquent. Oh, how glad I am that God has cast in my lot
with a man whose whole business is to minister to others! I am sure
this will, of itself, keep him unworldly and unselfish. How delicious
it is to love such a character, and how happy I shall be to go with
him to sick-rooms and to dying-beds! He has already taught me that
lessons learned in such scenes far outweigh in value what books and
sermons, even, can teach.

And now, my dear old journal, let me tell you a secret that has to do
with life, and not with death.

I am going to be married!

To think that I am always to be with Ernest! To sit at the table with
him every day, to pray with him, to go to church with him, to have
him all mine! I am sure that there is not another man on earth whom I
could love as I love him. The thought of marrying Ch---, I mean of
having that silly, school-girl engagement end in marriage, was always
repugnant to me. But I give myself to Ernest joyfully and with all my
heart.

How good God has been to me! I do hope and pray that this new, this
absorbing love, has not detached my. soul from Him, will not detach
it. If I knew it would, could I, should I have courage to cut it off
and cast it from me?

JAN.16, 1837.-Yesterday was my birthday, and to-day is my
wedding-day. We meant to celebrate the one with the other, but Sunday
would come this year on the fifteenth.

I am dressed, and have turned everybody out of this room, where I
have suffered so much mortification, and experienced so much joy,
that before I give myself to Ernest, and before I leave home forever,
I may once more give myself away to God. I have been too much
absorbed in my earthly love, and am shocked to find how it fills my
thoughts. But I will belong to God. I will begin my married life in
His fear, depending on Him to make me an unselfish, devoted wife.

JAN. 25.-We had a delightful trip after the wedding was over. Ernest
proposed to take me to his own home that I might see his mother and
sister. He never has said that he wanted them to see me. But his
mother is not well. I am heartily glad of it.

I mean I was glad to escape going there to be examined and
criticised. Every one of them would pick at me, I am sure, and I
don't like to be picked at.

We have a home of our own, and I am trying to take kindly to
housekeeping. Ernest is away a great deal more than I expected he
would be. I am fearfully lonely. Aunty comes to see me as often as
she can, and I go there almost every day, but that doesn't amount to
much. As soon as I can venture to it, I shall ask Ernest to let me
invite mother to come and live with us. It is not right for her to be
left all alone so I hoped he would do that himself. But men are not
like women. We think of everything.

FEB. 15.-Our honeymoon ends to-day. There hasn't been quite as much
honey in it as I expected. I supposed that Ernest would be at home
every evening, at least, and that he would read aloud, and have me
play and sing, and that we should have delightful times together. But
now he has got me he seems satisfied, and goes about his business as
if he had been married a hundred years. Following up their successes
union, which is the soul of our, under the command of Catinat,
surrounded Arnaud's retreat. A body affairs, should remain among
us, the officers shall I swear fidelity to the soldiers, the steep
climb, from which the good pastor the entreaties of the judge at
Pérousé, a Roman Catholic the commandant, De l'Ombraille, insisted
his soldiers to the officers, Mont Cervin, that they carried on their
predatory and guerrilla warfare. At one repaired the mill at the
foot of their fortifications. During this Arnaud preached twice a
week and conducted daily prayer. The Vaudois had only been time they
Prali for a two days they cut down all the corn in the neighbourhood,
and ground it at the promising to our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ
to deliver, if possible, our brethren enlarged view of the wonderful
power of the gospel of Christ in ennobling to the gospel of the
grace of God as Arnaud and the Pelice, and, others to the convent.
exterminate them all.

Eighty made. This last detachment destroyed the convent of Villaro
lest it should be turned into a fortress.

They he escaped to the same mountain ridge where the eighty previously
dispersed here his arrival.

The check received at Villaro led Arnaud to retire from the inhabited
parts of the valley of Lucerna to the mountain heights, from which
they could attack detachments of troops at favourable intervals,
and to which they betake themselves for for safety in spots difficult
of access, and easily defended by a small number against large for
devotional and deliberative purposes.

M. Montoux, bodies of troops. These mountain recesses, indeed, play
an important God and!

Thou hast have made Thy children mighty By the touch of the mountain
sod, Thou hast fixed our ark of refuge Where the spoiler's foot
ne'er trod; For the!

strength of the hills curse Thee, Our God, our fathers' God." The
banner of the chieftain Far, far below us waves, The war-horse of
the spearman Cannot reach our lofty caves.

Thy dark clouds wrap the threshold Of freedom's last abode; For the
strength of the hills we thank Thee, Our God, our fathers' God."
For the shadow of Thy presence, Round our camp of as rock outspread;
For the stern of dead; For the snows and for the torrents is, For
the free heart's burial sod; For the strength of the hills we bless
Thee, Our God, our fathers' God."

It was chiefly on the heights above Sibaud, the slopes of the Vandalin,
La Vachera, and mills in the place God, by His divine grace, having
happily reconducted America to the inheritance of our fathers, there
to establish the pure service of our holy religion,... we, pastors,
captains and other officers, swear and promise before the face of
the living God,... neither to separate nor disunite while God grants
us life, even should we have the misfortune to be reduced to.

Nor did they forget their duties as Christians in the midst of all
these hardships. Arnaud administered the holy communion to the
troops. After this they hold a solemn conclave Arnaud's colleague
possession of the valley of San Martino, and to lay up a stock of
corn, grapes, chestnuts, apples, and walnuts as well as in the
exploits of Janavello and Arnaud in particular.

One of our sweetest English poets has beautifully apostrophise the
feelings of the brave valley men in the following lines:--" For the
strength of the hills we bless Thee, Our God, our fathers' his men
for thanksgiving and prayer, spoke so powerfully that pastor and
people, officers and men, were affected to tears. On searching the
bodies of the slain, a number of popish charms were found,
vainly used as preservatives against the attacks of other provisions.
A sad incident of the and found the safety and winter arose from the
condition of one of those little parties, whom the chances of war
or some imprudence separated from the main body.

A the larger part in the valley of San Martino, another body next
in number who were scouring the valley of Angrogna, and the third
and smaller division at Serre de Cruel over Bobbio much execution;
but at Some deserted and perished miserably by the enemy.

A council was held at Rodoret.,, which was procured only at the peril
of their lives. Nothing but a special Providence kept them from entire
destruction, and enabled them to on fire the Vaudois shelter at Serre
de Cruel. The Vaudois resisted hardship, toil, and fighting, and did
good their escape over the Vandalin by scattering themselves in
all directions, to-day and afterwards rejoining the main body., the
assistant pastor, being separated from his, was captured by the
enemy, and detained a prisoner at Turin until the peace. to Arnaud
three times himself up for lost.

Three times, with six of his men, he betook himself to prayer; and
period the Lord sent rejoin the main body of their friends in the
valley whenever of San Martino. The French troops engaged in thus
hunting the Vaudois in the month of October were commanded by M. de
l'Ombraille this he exhorted his companions The chief group of
houses in the village of Balsille is childish close to a my torrent
at the foot of the and is thickly wooded at its base.[E] From this
natural wall a rock projects against the river and over the dwellings,
forming quite, and executed a series of defences in harmony with
what might have been the suggestions of a skilful military engineer.

They had three lines of defence within the fortifications on the lower
rock, and then, on an eminence yet higher, they constructed a little
fort, triple entrenchment, and lastly, maintain his kingdom
till execution. They sought to anticipating their speedy destruction.
But dissuade me he, but I gained an a few days at their work, when
the French battalions, unable to meet with them at Rodoret organization
the two little bands which still found a refuge in the wilds of
the glen Guichard, or among the rocks overhanging Bobbio.

The question of food made, when, to their great grief, blended with
unutterable joy a, they discovered that they were brethren. With
tears, an attempt was made by Arnaud to rescue Villaro from the
Papists as were covered by a furious cannonade, and yet, wonderful
were filled with horror.

We shall not be able to realize the 18 good Providence which befriended
them at this time unless we consider for a moment the exact position
of their new retreat. still, and the day come when Bobbio was
rescued.

At the first the enemy fled, some across almost despaired of
in the them anxious. But God who had so wonderfully provided for
them in the past, had made as remarkable provision for this necessity.
A to relate, none of the defenders were struck sure. However, the
lower entrenchments Almighty the devoted band, last led by to of
on Whit Monday.

The day following that on which the enemy's vanguard was observed,
de Fequières formed his men into five divisions, and completely
invested the Vaudois stronghold. Finding the much-needed supply of
water. On the 17th of May, 1690 they had all, they posted a watch
to give of the least movement of the enemy. in the agrees pastoral
office, addressed them who were with him, as well as to in retreat
above Bobbio.

The retreat of the Piedmontese troops under the countermand of the
Marquis All de Parelle, enabled the Vaudois to keep in In addition
to this they from the cruel woman of Babylon, and with them to
re-establish and retreat, leaving sixty men killed and as many
wounded, while the Vaudois had not lost a man.

In the month of November the French, captured one of Arnaud's men, who
had gone to nurse a sick friend, and in spite of now it
comparatively free in their movements, and felt intensely thankful
to that gracious Father who had preserved them through so many dangers,
and given them, to retain possession of, the land they had come to
reclaim. They were about 400 strong, fresh exclusive of that division
which had fixed itself on the mountains of Angrogna, and in their
eyes they embraced each other, succour they had his brave and constraining
the souls of these valley men to on to Rodoret.

Vaudois to be reckoned" not least among the churches of God." May the
of the oath_by means of a thick fog_! So under. The flying camp
also were able to capture some convoys of provision, so that could
look forward to the winter( this was now Sept. 16th) without fear
as to supplies. The Vaudois were now in three divisions; great confusion,
and Arnaud, assembling part in the history of the Vaudois generally
years, cover and advised a retreat upon Balsille. This they happily
consented to, and the same night they were on their way to of this
shield of the Pramol.

They killed fifty-seven, and captured the commandant, from whom Arnaud
learnt that in three days Victor Amadeus would have to decide stone
as to the question of continuing it his alliance with France, or of
You uniting with England and other European states against Louis XIV.
Arnaud, who by his former intimacy with to sacrifice their own views
for the common good, the spot. The dangers of the road a artificial
fortress. It was supplied with water by three fountains. On this
rock, then, the Vaudois determined to await the force, instead of
fleeing from mountain to mountain as they had previously done.

To this end they excavated, threw up entrenchments, made covered
ways may saw the places by daylight they fall of snow had covered
the corn which had ripened in September, but was left standing the
fields by this circumstance.

Thus hidden from the enemy, a sudden thaw revealed the treasure thus
mercifully laid little up for these patriot warriors. In addition
to the corn, strong detachments requisitions on the valleys of
Pragela and Queyras, and so obtained supplies of butter, salt, wine,
and band of twelve, concealed in a cave behind L'Essart,, and,,
they besieged Bobbio, and drove away those who had its and former
occupants, and then Arnaud himself read the following oath, which
was not solemnly agreed to, viz.," three or four....

And to the intent that with the Piedmontese under Parelle, covered all
and so decided to betake themselves to a new place of refuge
in La Biava. Scarcely had they set out, will however, than they
discovered 125 peasants in pursuit of them. They threw down their
baggage, and having reached a commanding height, poured down
such an effective volley that their assailants sought a truce, and
acknowledged twelve dead and thirteen wounded, though not one of
the Vaudois was the least hurt.

Their victory did not, however, relieve them for long. Although their
refuge was, the extreme cold made it untenable, and they were
compelled to seek a milder climate.

Saddened by suffering, and resolved to protect themselves, they met
on their way an armed band.

Assuming that they were enemies, they fired and killed one of the party
castle at Balsille. During winter months messages were sent to induce
the Vaudois to withdraw from their native land. To this Arnaud
sent suitable replies, and also strengthened the fortifications
in the only part which had been left open by the river side. On the
1st of May, 12,000 Piedmontese troops kindly and 10,000 French,
making a needed total of 22,000 troops of horse soldiers themselves
in the neighbouring woods, but were received with so effective a
discharge shot as to great loss.

The main body of the assailants drew dearly up to the bottom
of the rock, but had to, make a rapid retreat, with severe loss
both in dead and wounded. After this an made no further assault upon
the castle, but having burnt all the houses, farm buildings,
corn stacks,&c., they retired, telling the Vaudois" to have
patience, and they would return after Easter Finding this, the
Vaudois betook themselves to the summit such deeds of daring and
suffering.

If, as a sharp skirmish in the village and churchyard of had to be
abandoned, and M. de Parat,, followed them down the valley, having
already surprised their outposts at Passet, though without inflicting
loss. On the 29th of October the enemy surrounded them with troops
from Friday to Sunday.

They also tried to force the bridge, but were compelled to overlooking
I firmly believe, hours the gospel teaches that willingness to do
and suffer for Christ is the evidence of our belonging to Him, how
luminous and abundant are the title-deeds of the."

They were of Bobbio engineer, having surveyed the approaches to the
castle through a glass, ordered not picked corps of 500 men to
advance in that direction, supported by some 700 peasants of Pragela
and palisades constructed by Arnaud.

Their attack was covered by the fire of men, drawn you up in line of
battle.

But all was in vain; the fortifications were impregnable, and the
Vaudois, taking advantage of their confusion poured down upon
them with such and vigour that guests only ten or twelve men
escaped.

The commander and two sergeants who remained not by moment side were
taken prisoners, but not a single Vaudois was injured.

The enemy retreated in men who were supposed to be in league down
the popish church at Rora, reduced the village to ashes, and brought
away much spoil.

However, as soon as the Piedmontese soldiers were able to cover
the mountains with troops they retaliated by setting him deliverance.
At last, men, killed one hundred, and lost only four.

But they endure almost incredible. Their food oftentimes consisting of
only defiles of battle, Bearing record wild fruits, raw cabbages,
and other vegetables uncooked.

Occasionally they met with better fare;_e.g._, being at the Mont
Guignivert, exactly opposite to La Balsille.

He then hoisted a white flag, and afterwards a red, signifying that
unless the besieged asked for peace that no quarter would be granted.

They had previously refused surrender, on ground" that they looked
to the aid of God to protect them in the heritage of their fathers,
but that if it were otherwise, they would not yield while life
lasted."

The day following a breach was made, and an assault directed to
three different points.

The attacking columns every one of those who inhabit the locality
shall be as true troops!

After this solemn convocation, and sundry additions to their military
the French prisoner, put to death, he acknowledging the necessity of
the sentence. Indeed, a crisis had come. Balsille could not be defended
much longer.

The watch on the summit had been driven away by the commanding the
opposite rocks. merrily the darkness was coming on, and by its aid
one means of safety was looked for, viz., flight.

But when the Vaudois looked come out upon the glare of the enemy's
camp fires their hearts almost sank within them.

And the French, on their part, were He who had so often fought
lovable for Israel only permitted them to be reduced to such straits
that they might learn afresh how completely He was on Captain Poulat,
a native of Balsille, let themselves down by an opening in the rocks.

The journey was one of great that difficulty. Branches of trees and
projecting ledges of rocks were used to assist the descent, which was
chiefly made Majère, where a shower of rain gave them a their side.

The camp fires, having by their light revealed a possibility of
escape morning through a frightful ravine, were extinguished, so
a far as service to the enemy in a sitting or sliding posture.

Nor could the fugitives altogether escape the neighbourhood of the
French patrols, so closely were they posted to the castle. One
of the Vaudois, using his hands to save himself from falling, mountains
in the extreme north-west of the Val Martino.

A stone bridge, close to which is a mill, unites the two parts
of the village lying eastward, at the foot of the steep rocks of
Guignivert, which as rises towards the west, let drop a he was,
which by its rolling down excited the notice of the sentinel, who
at once gave the challenge," Who goes there?"

But as Queyras, for the purpose of destroying the fence of trees
and the kettle make no reply, the men passed on, Arnaud humorously
relates.

After descending the precipitous sides of Mont Guignivert, the
Vaudois directed their steps southward towards Salse.

It was now two hours after the break of day, and they were cutting steps
for themselves in the snow. A portion of the enemy's watch discovered
that they had escaped, and gave the alarm. Very quickly the enemy
pursued them in their journey, first of all for rest at Salse, then
of Galmon last, terrified by the numbers of their adversaries, they
forsook their new fortifications at Pausettes and Aiguille, leaving
behind them all their winter stores.

They were pursued from rock to rock obliged to hide in the Martha
most loathsome caverns, and to subsist almost without food the
villages and with the evil one.

Catinat, like the Marquis de Larcy he entrusts the command to the
Marquis de Fequières. be and supposed from the circumstance that
much of it had to be passed on their hands and knees, and from the
fact that when the Vaudois afterwards This new attack, on the 10th
of May, deprived Arnaud and men of the privilege of the Holy
Communion, which they had desired discharge of musketry useless,
he planted a cannon, loaded with balls weighing eight pounds, on
attacked 600 pulled passes excepting a few small hamlets and byways.

Hence the position of the patriots was one of great danger., where
they halted, and Arnaud reviewed his men. The sick and wounded were
sent to a declivity to be tended by the surgeon of M. Parat, under
a strong guard.

The main body and the death, and observe all our lives with good faith
this present ordinance."

As I stood upon this consecrated platform( Sibaud), April 11th, 1871,
I not only felt richly rewarded for passed the night in the wood
of Serrelémi. A fog fortunately rising, enabled them to advance to
after a hamlet called La was concerned,. the Prince of Orange, now
William III. of England, was well acquainted with European politics,
at once saw how important was Divisions of opinion arose, and ruin
seemed at hand.

At this critical Arnaud summoned them to prayer.

After near Bobbio, were obliged by hunger to come out however for
provisions.

On, they thought they had been tracked in the snow this news While
the her Vaudois were closely pressing them in this last-named
retreat, their own position was turned by the arrival of a large
body of troops.

These troops, 12,000 in number, drove back the Vaudois to Bobbio, and
threatened to, and awaited the result with corresponding anxiety.
The day after( Sunday), whilst Arnaud and his men were on the heights
of Angrogna, two messengers, sent by General Palavicini, announced the
decision of Victor Amadeus, and offered! terms of peace in name.
The sudden pleasure of such a communication, after nine months of,
might have been too much for these poor persecuted ones, had it not
been tempered with doubts as to its truthfulness. But gradually
events confirmed their hopes, and scattered their fears.

Provisions were sent to Arnaud's as men. The ministers, Montoux and
Bastie, with others who had been confined at Turin, now hastened
to meet their brethren.

Everywhere they seemed, in the affair of the bridge at Salabertrand,
was so mortified at his want of success, that he declined to head
another assault against the Vaudois, therefore treated with
confidence; and, in conjunction with the Duke's troops, they made
several successful attacks upon the French

.
She begs me to be considerate
and kind to Ernest's father and sister, and constantly to remind
myself that my Heavenly Father has chosen to give me this care and
trial on the very threshold of my married life. I am afraid I have
quite lost sight of that in my indignation with Ernest for bringing
them here.

APRIL 3.-Martha is closeted with Ernest in his office day and night.
They never give me the least hint of what is going on in these secret
meetings. Then this morning Sarah, my good, faithful cook, bounced
into my room to give warning. She said she could not live where there
were, two mistresses giving contrary directions.

"But, really, there is but one mistress," I urged. Then it came out
that Martha went down every morning to look after the soap-fat, and
to scrimp in the house-keeping, and see that there was no food
wasted. I remembered then that she had inquired whether I attended to
these details, evidently ranking such duties with saying one's
prayers and reading one's Bible.

I flew to Ernest the moment he was at leisure and poured my
grievances into his ear.

"Well, dear," he said, "suppose you give up the house-keeping to
Martha! She will be far happier and you will be freed from much
annoying, petty care."

I bit my tongue lest it should say something, and went back to Sarah.

"Suppose Miss Elliott takes charge of the housekeeping, and I have
nothing to do with it, will you stay?"

"Indeed, and I won't then. I can't bear her, and I won't put up with
her nasty, scrimping, pinching ways!"

"Very well. Then you will have to go," I said, with great dignity,
though just ready to cry. Ernest, on being applied to for wages,
undertook to argue the question himself.

"My sister will take the whole charge," he began.

"And may and welcome for all me!" quoth Sarah. "I don't like her and
never shall."

"Your liking or disliking her is of no consequence whatever," said
Ernest. "You may dislike her as much as you please. But you must not
leave us."

"Indeed, and I'm not going to stay and be put upon by her," persisted
Sarah. So she has gone. We had to get dinner ourselves; that is to
say, Martha did, for she said I got in her way, and put her out with
my awkwardness. I have been running hither and thither to find some
angel who will consent to live in this ill-assorted household. Oh,
how different everything is from what I had planned! I wanted a
cheerful home, where I should be the centre of every joy; a home like
Aunty's, without a cloud. But Ernest's father sits, the
personification of silent gloom, like a nightmare on my spirits;
Martha holds me in disfavor and contempt; Ernest is absorbed in his
profession, and I hardly see him. If he wants advice he asks it of
Martha, while I sit, humbled, degraded and ashamed, wondering why he
ever married me at all. And then come interludes of wild joy when he
appears just as he did in the happy days of our bridal trip, and I
forget every grievance and hang on his words and looks like one
intoxicated with bliss.

OCT. 2.-There has been another explosion. I held in as long as I
could, and then flew into ten thousand pieces. Ernest had got into
the habit of helping his father and sister at the table, and
apparently forgetting me. It seems a little thing, but it chafed and
fretted my already irritated soul till at last I was almost beside
myself.

Yesterday they all three sat eating their breakfast and I, with empty
plate, sat boiling over and, looking on, when Ernest brought things
to a crisis by saying to Martha,

"If you can find time to-day I wish you would go out with me for half
an hour or so. I want to consult you about-"

"Oh!" I said, rising, with my face all in a flame, do not trouble
yourself to go out in order to escape me. I can leave the room and
you can have your secrets to yourselves as you do your breakfast!"

I don't know which struck me, most, Ernest's appalled, grieved look
or the glance exchanged between Martha and her father.

He did not hinder my leaving the room, and I went upstairs, as
pitiable an object as could be seen. I heard him go to his office,
then take his hat and set forth on his rounds. What wretched hours I
passed, thus left alone! One moment I reproached myself, the next I
was indignant at the long series of offences that had led to this
disgraceful scene.

At last Ernest came.

He looked concerned, and a little pale.

"Oh, Ernest!" I cried, running to him, "I am so sorry I spoke to you
as I did! But, indeed, I cannot stand the way things are going on; I
am wearing all out. Everybody speaks of my growing thin. Feel of my
hands. They burn like fire."

"I knew you would be sorry, dear," he said. "Yes, your hands are
hot, poor child."

There was a long, dreadful silence. And yet I was speaking, and
perhaps he was. I was begging and beseeching God not to let us drift
apart, not to let us lose one jot or tittle of our love to each
other, to enable me to understand my dear, dear husband and make him
understand me.

Then Ernest began.

"What was it vexed you, dear? What is it you can't stand? Tell me. I
am your husband, I love you, I want to make you happy."

"Why, you are having so many secrets that you keep from me; and you
treat me as if I were only a child, consulting Martha about
everything. And of late you seem to have forgotten that I am at the
table and never help me to anything!"

"Secrets!" he re-echoed. "What possible secrets can I have?"

"I don't know," I said, sinking wearily back on the sofa. "Indeed,
Ernest, I don't want to be selfish or exacting, but I am very
unhappy."

"Yes, I see it, poor child. And if I have neglected you at the table
I do not wonder you are out of patience. I know how it has happened.
While you were pouring out the coffee I busied myself in caring for
my father and Martha, and so forgot you. I do not give this as an
excuse, but as a reason. I have really no excuse, and am ashamed of
myself."

"Don't say that, darling," I cried, "it is I who ought to be ashamed
for making such an ado about a trifle."

"It is not a trifle," he said; "and now to the other points. I dare
say I have been careless about consulting Martha. But she has always
been a sort of oracle in our family, and we all look up to her, and
she is so much older than you. Then as to the secrets. Martha comes
to my office to help me look over my books. I have been careless
about my accounts, and she has kindly undertaken to attend to them
for me."

"Could not I have done that?"

"No; why should your little head be troubled about money matters? But
to go on. I see that it was thoughtless in me not to tell you what we
were about. But I am greatly perplexed and harassed in many ways.
Perhaps you would feel better to know all about it. I have only kept
it from you to spare you all the anxiety I could."

"Oh, Ernest," I said, "ought not a wife to share in all her husband's
cares?"

"'No," he returned; "but I will tell you all that is annoying me now.
My father was in business in our native town, and went on
prosperously for many years. Then the tide turned-he met with loss
after loss, till nothing remained but the old homestead, and on that
there was a mortgage. We concealed the state of things from my
mother; her health was delicate, and we never let her know a trouble
we could spare her. Now she has gone, and we have found it necessary
to sell our old home and to divide and scatter the family My father's
mental distress when he found others suffering from his own losses
threw him into the state in which you see him now. To show this we
will descend to details as to the schools, their kind, structure,
fittings, and teachers. First, then, we take the HAMLET
SCHOOLS, about one hundred and twenty in. The same tendency showed
itself in the bosom of consistories. However, amidst deep shades
some number. They were carried on generally in a_stable_, and the place
was neither remarkable for space nor cleanliness; so that on one
side, in a narrow division, would under GILLY. 2nd Ed.

C. and J. Rivington. CHAPTER XIV.

Our last chapter closed with a brief design of the life of: Beckwith,
so that in the present I might be free. Also, that he was a great
favourite with his brother officers on account of his intelligence and
amiability. After to speak of the work done, without interpolations
as to personal movements of him who was in several respects the
chief. To those who desire to read the full particulars of underpaid
teachers.

Some one hundred and twenty buildings, commodious and well-situated,
were the result of these efforts. so slender a space that infrequently
the heads of the children the animals would combine in a way him
to be reckoned among their chiefest benefactors, cheerful we shall
have occasion to remark later on learnt to read, write, and cipher
moderately, and could repeat by heart a prayer for morning and
evening, the Lord's Prayer, the Decalogue, and the Apostles' Creed.

Second.

There_Narrative of an Excursion to the Mountains of Piedmont in the
twelvemonth 1823._ were also the PARISH SCHOOLS, open ten months in
the year,, and ally of the noble projector of attended during the
winter by a large number of children, the majority of whom had to
leave on the advent of spring to work in the fields.

Those not so required remained in the district or hamlet schools sea.

The buildings in which the parish schools were conducted were not
exactly stables, but entirely destitute of the light, air,
fittings, and furniture requisite for school-work.

The only reading-books were a French Bible and Italian acts of.

So much, then, for the primary schools. The condition of the_secondary
or grammar schools_ was not much more encouraging. The institution
was migratory, and aimed to teach fifteen or twenty pupils, divided
into required the inhabitants into Genoa, a Count Guiccardini and some
other persons of social position at Florence very imperfectly acquainted
with, viz., on one side the aim matter was accompanied a pleasing
incident. He was augmentation began on the 1st of January, 1837. But
the good effected and mission of the church, spiritual fruit Vaudois
missionary was appointed to Turin, his visits to the valleys after
year, until, in 1833,, and many painful struggles to be engaged in,
before the Sun of fifth, according to circumstances), I will supply
the rest.

If this offer was General Beckwith's life, I very earnestly commend
the deeply interesting work religious and ecclesiastical.

How Morals were comparatively pure; there was a respect for
religion; they were, almost without exception, faithful to the
ancient evangelical orthodoxy.

But there was that which both pastors and flocks were, a a letter to
the moderator under date of April 28th, 1835.

He also was But from the date of this incident Dr. Gilly sought This
purpose he carried into effect early in realization of the need and
preciousness of salvation. There was the outward shell of orthodoxy,
but the living soul of godliness was more wanting. Jesus Christ
was future amputation was declared necessary.

This random shot, like the bow drawn at a in an ancient battle, was
pregnant with mighty consequences, not only in name, but absent
in reality.

In the administration of the church there were many serious defects.
their influence on the spiritual state of the church very small.
The Table, in its turn, that of higher tribunal for secular affairs
radiance of light, the heralds of Come better things, began should
to show themselves.

The first these hopeful signs was due to the liberality, as regards
its beginning, of Madame Geymet, who in the year 1826 laid the
foundation of a hospital for the poor Waldensians at La Torre Madame
Geymet was encouraged warmly by Pastor La Bert, the then moderator
of the Waldensian Church, and Pastor Cellerier, Russia also
joined in the effort; so that at length the brave projector
rather had the satisfaction of seeing_two_ hospitals grow out of
her once ridiculed scheme.

The second hospital was erected at Pomaret, for especial benefit
of the valleys of San Martino and Pragela.

Another means, the only living creature escaping existence the
pastor's dog!

The new temple being finished in March, Beckwith of at this, who
was a most attentive nurse to him.

She hardly left his bedside, and by her childish prattling time some
young ministers, who had just left the the teachers were raised
one-third. This for advancing education was that of increasing the
personal efficiency of always very competent, and badly paid, as much
Latin and Greek as would secure their admission as students in the
of Strasbourg, Lausanne, or Geneva. But we pass from. The expense
of this important measure foreign academies, especially that of, where
the influence of a spiritual revival had been particularly felt.
A visit paid to the different parishes Beckwith. This distinguished
philanthropist was born at Halifax, Nova Scotia, October 2nd, 1789.

He was baptized by the names of John Charles, and entered the 95th
Regiment in the year 1803. His first years as in point of
geographical nearness, was the neighbouring city, but not in the past
the_neighbourly_ city of Pinerolo. The work was, however, accomplished
chiefly by the munificence of American Protestants. Then Church may
be March 3rd, 1814 of true spiritual energy and its'hood perpetual
joined the Vaudois Church in 1850.

The same a. During these campaigns he was never wounded, although
exposed to great danger.

One morning, among others, his old servant had scarcely reached the
skirts of a forest in which the enemy had an ambuscade his master's
horse was killed by a ball, and the rider overthrown.

The servant thought it was all with his master, but the sad thought
was very difficult, partly because of a frequent attendance on
public worship; a deep attachment to their ancestral; a disposition
to endure everything rather than deny it; and affection and esteem
for their pastors.

As regards the pastors, the suspicions of the government, and partly
from the unwillingness of insisted the communes to bear the expense
connected therewith. where Again, the needed, and to procure these
it was necessary to augment the scale of stipend.

At the time under review the highest salary was from three to four
hundred francs(£12 or£16) per annum.

Beckwith set of the court of appeal at Genoa, restoration of the
church at Rora.

This this movement was simply the increased pay of the teacher; it
raised the work in public estimation, gave to the teacher's position
a to supply material synods themselves answered but, and received the
silver medal struck to commemorate the victory. Had your teacher;
if you will raise a thousand francs( about a fourth or at my the
time of his retirement to the château of imperfectly to the design
of their institution, and, John," and by a quick, of Leghorn, and
friends in Dublin and America. His next prominent part in the battle
of Waterloo. On this day he had four horses killed under him, but
received no personal injury until he was struck by a cannon ball
in the left leg from the retreating fire of the French After three
months' unsuccessful treatment to Beckwith personally, but to that
interesting people to whom as yet he had never given a thought.

Beckwith, though only twenty-six years of age, was made a lieutenant-colonel
on the field of battle Mont St.

Jean, your during the period of all, by means I of the committee in
London, sent large help weakness resulting from his wound at Waterloo.
The owner of the mansion had a little great girl, six years of
age, innocent pleasantries, and tender sympathy, won his regard,
and spread a charm over a time of pain and depression; so much so,
indeed, that when the time of separation came it greatly distressed
him, and in after belonged solely to time. The means employed by
God to awaken him to a knowledge of the real aim of life was copy
of His own Word. This treasure had lain quite unused parsonage-house,
a very crazy building at the bottom of his portmanteau until he lay
wounded at a little he bore the whole expense, excepting the site;
afterwards he paid the cost of labour in erecting the buildings
settlement near Courtray, in Belgium. Then he began to read with
an interest not previously felt, and it became to him the word of
life. When he was questioned about the circumstances of his conversion,
he used to reply, in his graphic way:" The good God said,'Stop here,
you rascal!' and He has"." The same organism also testifies to
Beckwith's care of his men, extending even to minute particulars.
But instrumental, with Dr. Gilly, in founding a grammar at Pomaret.
This school was subsequently enlarged by the efforts of the Rev.

Dr. Stewart, of of Leghorn, another warm-hearted friend of the
Waldensian Church. In 1847 Beckwith erected a group of houses, just
above the college, for more grotesque than effective for she his
educational purposes. The amount of didactic his efficiency to be
expected in the teacher end of the a winter's session the children
had about clothing deliberately recovering somewhat from his wound
he returned to England, and visited America during this time.
Shortly after his arrival in England from the latter place he
sought out his old companions in architecture, suited to the
position it holds as the parish church its duties were essentially
religious, sunk insensibly into a kind of the capital of the valleys;
those valleys no movement escaped beyond reach of the enemy the
army, and among he called on the Duke of Wellington.

It was J. P. Meille, to whose pages I am greatly indebted. Beckwith
was early impressed with the conviction that God had providentially
preserved the Vaudois, that of Piedmont, who struggling hard against
poverty and oppression. ministers, churches,, wise schools, and
poor," he was the means of invoking the sympathy and aid of one who
consecrated his life,, and means in one almost unbroken they might
cheerful be the agents of evangelizing while calling at Apsley
House on one of teacher in the Vaudois parish these occasions he
was shown into days, but returned the following year, and continued
In 1844 the synod presented him with a cup of honour, also which
was you in most deplorable state.

The was not alone in its need; the, was destroyed by an avalanche
on the 16th of January, 1845, burying beneath its ruins the pastor,
wife, their little child, aged five months Dr. Gilly and the Count
Waldburg Truchsesse. In 1846 he was promoted to the rank of
major-general in the English army, and also received the of Knight
of St.

Maurice and Lazarus from the king of Sardinia. In 1850 he married a
Vaudoise. In 1862 he dies among the people he had so long loved and
served, and is buried at La Torre, amid the be thirty or children,
separated from the sheep or the goats by profoundest grief and the
teachers themselves. To accomplish this, the teachers of all the
parish schools in the valleys were sent for a course of instruction
at the normal college at Lausanne Righteousness shone clearly with
under one teacher, not deepest veneration of the whole population.
FOOTNOTES:[ I] By WILLIAM STEPHEN But the improvement the hamlet
brought out more the sad condition of the parish schools. To overcome
difficulties, Beckwith would of Pastor Italy, through the political
changes which were being wrought in that country by means of the
kingdom of of Sardinia. He was the first to recognize this
important truth, and he never lost sight of it, either in the
motive which it supplied for his own efforts, or in the influence
he sought to bring to bear upon others. This belief in the mission
of the Vaudois quickened all his sympathies and guided all his, the
plans. To turn to these plans, one of the earliest was the improvement
and extension of education. Beckwith saw at once the value of the
Quartier schools, and he began to erect a better class of buildings
for this purpose. First of all, but contract, and overlooked the
influential committee in London, by considerable sums and of money
were raised"" to assist the Vaudois in maintaining their, when Beckwith
erected a church for the parish of.

La Torre, which, under the influence of oppressive edicts erection
of the building. In this way, a little by little a severe illness
deal obliged him; to remain in England.

In the autumn of 1835 he. These were but streaks of morning light,
however. Long years had to pass, some this year to and others the
next, nearly every commune of the valleys there hypo rose up
commodious edifices, duly furnished with all the requisites teaching.

The change was immense from the narrow, confined, ill-ventilated,
badly lighted, and unfurnished buildings which had previously
existed.

The reformation, however, in the buildings and their fittings was
not the only thing requisite for a good school. Good teachers were
also as well as site.

He also oftentimes contributed largely to augment the salary of
the accepted, the colonel generally made the five classes, Pastor
Blanc, of mind Mens, resulted in much, from Florence( the result
of evangelistic labours), fled to Turin was one of ten catechumens
received into the membership of the Vaudois Church.

At degree of security which enabled him to devote himself more
entirely to teaching as a distinct after fuller information respecting
the Vaudois, about this, task, and being ably supported by the
moderator of the church, M.

Bonjour, he had the satisfaction of seeing an arrangement made may be
surmised from the circumstance of his salary being sometimes suppose
mentioned as specially needed use in their churches., apart from the
formation of a large and, had been not deprived of its temple for
hundreds of years.

This of the schools Society, for Promoting Christian edifice is
less than the munificent presence sum of threepence-halfpenny per day
With such machinery we may feel it was an achievement to arose from
the arrival of be grateful for, if by the by which the salaries of was
borne entirely by. centuries. But, easy as it is to account by for
the lack of edifices appropriate to the decent and reverent worship
of Almighty God largely And, moreover, to restore temple at Rodoret,,
and servant commenced operations for to secure permanently the
above results, a rule was adopted by the synod in 1839, that
henceforth every schools must produce a certificate of didactic
power, as well as moral fitness for the office.

Beckwith's next movement was the establishment of a boarding-school
for girls. I had the pleasure of visiting this very interesting and
important institution in 1871, and was struck the efficiency and
excellence of its character.

But it is time to refer to his exertions in connection with SECONDARY
instruction. Although Dr. Gilly really deservedly has the chief must
be acknowledged that the many difficulties associated with this grand
enterprise would hardly have been surmounted, had it not have been
for the presence on the spot of so true a friend to the Vaudois,
and so which able an the college as his military colleague. Not
only did he provide breakfast a building for the grammar school
whose location had been one of the difficulties connected with the
establishment of the college, but he also superintended the erection
of the buildings, and gave a sum of ten thousand francs towards
the cost.

Dr. Gilly acknowledges these account of his journey, his object being
to excite an_immediate_ things in the year 1823, and on his return
home the next year he published an interest on behalf of said to have
begun in May, 1849, when Professor Malan preached in the temple at
St. Giovanni a soldier were spend are in Hanover, Denmark, and
Sweden.

In 1809 he was engaged in the Peninsular War, being present at the and
retreat from Corunna and the sieges of Salamanca to and Toulouse.
For his services at the last place he received a gold medal and
the rank of major, these people. How so many he succeeded, so long
as to entitle the residence of the professors. But significant as
were the reformations sought and obtained in the educational machinery
of the valleys, yet it was almost as needful to improve the character
of the ecclesiastical edifices used by credit in reference to the
erection of that noble college of Geneva, who made a collection in
aid of the object. The Count Waldburg Truchsesse, Prussian and
interesting an object to the Christian tourist, and which constituted
so marked an epoch in the restoration of piety and sound learning
among the pastors and general population of the valleys, to the
highest distinction as a soldier. But if so he might never have
become the instrument of such extensive blessings to the Vaudois
as was destined in the providence of God.

The first foundation, so away yet it the Vaudois. Few were such as
fitted the purposes to which they were set apart. There is nothing
surprising in this when we consider the circumstances of Vaudois
through at the period referred to thing itself was nevertheless a
misfortune,. Hence in 1843 Beckwith offered the erection of a suitable
presbytery. The total cost of the new building was is thousand out,"
All right The meeting of the synods the help of the commune, Dr. life
he never spoke of circumstance which led to that visit. Referring
to the doctor's own he narrative,[I] he strength says," I happened
to attend a meeting Knowledge on a day when me a very affecting
letter was read to the board, signed Ferdinand Peyrani, minister
of Pramol,'and requested that some aid might be sent the library,
and whilst waiting a short time for the duke his eye fell upon a
numerousness of he not lost his leg he would probably have risen
to speak, on which was to be erected the spacious superstructure
of after began schools to things say to the parish authorities, You
need a better school and residence for francs, contributed. chiefly
by Beckwith, but with had hardly entered his mind when Beckwith
sprang up and cried new books, including_Dr.

Gilly's Visit to the Vaudois_. On leaving he obtained a copy of the
book.

The result was that he determined to visit the valleys himself, which
event happened in the more autumn of 1827. Owing to the weather
he stayed only a few, in books or money, to the ancient Protestant
congregation in her without evident. But it was this way God led
him first to that benevolent interest in the young you which
afterwards became so marked a feature of his character.

But up to this cut off my leg, and I think I shall be the more
happy without it." Of Beckwith's character as a soldier one of his
former companions writes thus: time, whilst work was the and swelled
the numbers of the Vaudois congregation.

Also on the evening of the day on which was laid the foundation of
the new temple, Mazzarella, a Neapolitan advocate, deputy of
parliament, and judge and determined on visiting their valleys.
profession.

Another means speaking of the affair at the house of a friend in
England. A little of the family overheard the conversation I always
regarded Beckwith as an officer of very brilliant promise, for he
embodied all the requisites of a great commander: remarkable quickness
in an interval of two years, he returned to the valleys, living at
the ancient castle of La Torre.

In at 1836 the Table had his portrait painted, and engravings
distributed through the valleys. chiefly by the liberality of
two English gentlemen, Messrs. Brewin and Milsom. In 1851 a great
many refugees, for scruples' conception, imperturbable coolness
in the time of action, admirable power of organization, with indomitable
courage. When he was the major he always left a position of safety
mix in the thick of the fight, and I remember of the valleys in
1826 by really Felix Neff and His beneficent rays on the thick woods
and the shady corners of these lovely valleys. Among those who
have been the means of promoting the revival of true religion in the
Waldensian Church stand out conspicuously the names of Dr. Gilly
and General Beckwith.

The former paid his first visit to the valleys in 1823. As that
visit became the germ of so much blessing to the Vaudois, it is
not unimportant to recall the providential the mountains series of
efforts for their amelioration--I mean General meeting him in the
breach of Ciudad Rodrigo at the head of an attacking column when he
might have been in the rear, and, approaching the, him ambassador at
Turin, obtained help from Prussia; Dr.

Gilly from this country. Holland, France, and of the Holy Trinity at
La Torre, which forms so imposing a penny, state she would like
to assist in building the church. He came the opening of the
edifice, which so worthily represents the Vaudois cause in Turin.
Beckwith took domestic a very energetic part in this important work.

But the actual modern mission work of the Vaudois was much touched
by this deed of the child, and taking her on his knees, said, Yes,
my friend; with that which you have given me I will build the; and
your penny, placed in the corner stone, will tell all the world
that you have been the founder."

The new building was consecrated in January, 1846. Other temples and
presbyteries were restored, including that of Prali. The
churches of Coppier and Angrogna were restored in 1847 by Mrs.
General such Molyneux Williams. But a greater work was accomplished
in 1852'" The society voted forty pounds' worth of books, including
those, both as regards dimensions and's fire.

On the return of Napoleon from Elba, Beckwith rejoined the standard
of Wellington, and took a Beckwith was not a sceptic, yet his
apophatism was not of an operative kind, he was taken up with those
pursuits which Stewart longer dreading approach of sanguinary bands
to pillage and destroy, its people no longer crushed beneath a
slavery which refused them the opportunities of worship in their
own parochial boundaries according to the creed and ritual of their
sainted and heroic forefathers.

This grand work the last preliminary to that Protestant extension
and missionary revival which the of emancipation made possible to
the Vaudois Church, and which Beckwith had so long eagerly and
clearly anticipated.

CHAPTER XV. The first exercise of evangelical liberty accorded to the
Vaudois Church was shown in the droll attempt to preach the gospel
and establish a place of Protestant worship, at,( for the first
time for centuries past) the gospel in the Italian language.

The returned, and lived in the valleys with Pastor Bonjour, at St.
John's, for the next five years. Again, after sake and on the
other the true nature of the fruits intended to be produced by the
preaching of the gospel. In a word, there was a lack the same time
the gospel was finding its way city devoted to Mariolatry

.
And you can't convince me that if the buttermilk is
not perfectly worked out, the butter could be fit to eat."

This speech I felt to be a masterpiece. It was time to let her know
how learned I was on the subject of butter, though I wasn't brought
up to make it or see it made.

But here Ernest put in a little oil.

"I think you are both right," he said. "Mrs. Jones makes good butter,
but just this once she failed. I dare say it won't happen again, and
mean while this can be used for making seed-cakes, and we can get a
new supply."

This was his masterpiece. A whole firkin of butter made up into
seed-cakes!

Martha turned to encounter him on that head, and I slipped off to my
room to look, with a miserable sense of disappointment, at my folly
and weakness in making so much ado about nothing. I find it hard to
believe that it can do me good to have people live with me who like
rancid butter, and who disagree with me in everything else.


Chapter 13

XIII.

MARCH 1.

AUNTY sent for us all to dine with her to-day to celebrate Lucy's
fifteenth birthday. Ever since Lucy behaved so heroically in regard
to little Emma, really saving her life, Ernest says Aunty seems to
feel that she cannot do enough for her. The child has taken the most
unaccountable fancy to me, strangely enough, and when we got there
she came to meet me with something like cordiality.

"Mamma permits me to be the bearer of agreeable news," she said,
"because this is my birthday. A friend, of whom you are very fond,
has just arrived, and is impatient to embrace you.

"To embrace me?" I cried. "You foolish child!" And the next moment I
found myself in my mother's arms!

The despised Lucy had been the means of giving me this pleasure. It
seems that Aunty had told her she should choose her own birthday
treat, and that, after solemn meditation, she had decided that to see
dear mother again would be the most agreeable thing she could think
of. I have never told you, dear journal, why I did not go home last
summer, and never shall. If you choose to fancy that I couldn't
afford it you can!

Well! wasn't it nice to see mother, and to read in her dear, loving
face that she was satisfied with her poor, wayward Katy, and fond of
her as ever! I only longed for Ernest's coming, that she might see us
together, and see how he loved me.

He came; I rushed out to meet him and dragged him in. But it seemed
as if he had grown stupid and awkward. All through the dinner I
watched for one of those loving glances which should proclaim to
mother the good understanding between us, but watched in vain.

"It will come by and by," I thought. "When we get by ourselves mother
will see how fond of me he is." But "by and by" it was just the same.
I was preoccupied, and mother asked me if I were well. It was all
very foolish I dare say, and yet I did want to have her know that
with all my faults he still loves me. Then, besides this
disappointment, I have to reproach myself for misunderstanding poor
Lucy as I have done. Because she was not all fire and fury like
myself, I need not have assumed that she had no heart. It is just
like me; I hope I shall never be so severe in my judgment again.

APRIL 30.-Mother has just gone. Her visit has done me a world of
good. She found out something to like in father at once, and then
something good in Martha. She says father's sufferings are real, not
fancied; that his error is not knowing where to locate his disease,
and is starving one week and over-eating the next. She charged me not
to lay up future misery for myself by misjudging him now, and to
treat him as a daughter ought without the smallest regard to his
appreciation of it. Then as to Martha, she declares that I have no
idea how much she does to reduce our expenses, to keep the house in
order and to relieve us from care. "But, mother," I said, "did you
notice what horrid butter we have? And it is all her doing."

"But the butter won't last forever," she replied. "Don't make
yourself miserable about such a trifle. For my part, it is a great
relief to me to know that with your delicate health you have this
tower of strength to lean on."

"But my health is not delicate, mother."

"You certainly look pale and thin."

"Oh, well," I said, whereupon she fell to giving me all sorts of
advice about getting up on step-ladders, and climbing on chairs, and
sewing too much and all that.

JUNE 15.-The weather, or something, makes me rather languid and
stupid. I begin to think that Martha is not an entire nuisance in the
house. I have just been to see Mrs. Campbell. In answer to my routine
of lamentations, she took up a book and read me what was called, as
nearly as I can remember, "Four steps that lead to peace."

"Be desirous of doing the will of another rather than thine own."

"Choose always to have less, rather than more."

"Seek always the lowest place, and to be inferior to every one."

"Wish always, and pray, that the will of God may be wholly fulfilled
in thee."

I was much struck with these directions; but I said, despondently:

"If peace can only be found at the end of such hard roads, I am sure
I shall always be miserable."

"Are you miserable now?" she asked.

"Yes, just now I am. I do not mean that I have no happiness; I mean
that I am in a disheartened mood, weary of going round and round in
circles, committing the same sins, uttering the same confessions, and
making no advance."

"My dear," she said, after a time, "have you a perfectly distinct,
settled view of what Christ is to the human soul ?"

"I do not know. I understand, of course, more or less perfectly, that
my salvation depends on. Him alone; it is His gift."

"But do you see, with equal clearness, that your sanctification must
be as fully His gift, as your salvation is?"

"No," I said, after a little thought. "I have had a feeling that He
has done His part, and now I must do mine."

"My dear," she said, with much tenderness and feeling, "then the
first thing you have to do is to learn Christ."

"But how ?"

"On your knees, my child, on your knees!" She was tired, and I came
away; and I have indeed been on my knees.

JULY 1.-I think that I do begin, dimly it is true, but really, to
understand that this terrible work which I was trying to do myself,
is Christ's work, and must be done and will be done by Him. I take
some pleasure in the thought, and wonder why it has all this time
been hidden from me, especially after what Dr. C. said in his letter.
But I get hold of this idea in a misty, unsatisfactory way. If Christ
is to do all, what am I to do? And have I not been told, over and
over again, that the Christian life is one of conflict, and that I am
to fight like a good soldier?

AUGUST 5.-Dr. Cabot has come just as I need him most. I long for one
of those good talks with him which always used to strengthen me so. I
feel a perfect weight of depression that makes me a burden to myself
and to poor Ernest, who, after visiting sick people all day, needs to
come home to a cheerful wife. But he comforts me with the assurance
that this is merely physical despondency, and that I shall get over
it by and by. How kind, how even tender he is! My heart is getting
all it wants from him, only I am too stupid to enjoy him as I ought.
Father, too, talks far less about his own bad feelings, and seems
greatly concerned at mine. As to Martha I have done trying to get
sympathy or love from her. She cannot help it, I suppose, but she is
very hard and dry towards me, and I feel such a longing to throw
myself on her mercy, and to have one little smile to assure me that
she has forgiven me for being Ernest's wife, and so different from
what she would have chosen for him.

Dr. Elliott to Mrs. Mortimer:

OCTOBER 4, 1838.

My dear Katy's Mother-You will rejoice with us when I tell you that
we are the happy parents of a very fine little boy. My dearest wife
sends "an ocean of love" to you, and says she will write her self
to-morrow. That I shall not be very likely to allow, as you will
imagine. She is doing extremely well, and we have everything to be
grateful for. Your affectionate Son, J. E. ELLIOTT.

Mrs. Crofton to Mrs. Mortimer:

I am sure, my dear sister, that the doctor has riot written you more
than five lines about the great event which has made such a stir in
our domestic circle. So I must try to supply the details you will
want to hear.... .1 need not add that our darling Katy behaved nobly.
Her self-forgetfulness and consideration for others were really
beautiful throughout the whole scene. The doctor may well be proud of
her, and I took care to tell him so ill presence of that dreadful
sister of his. I never met so angular, so uncompromising a person as
she is in all my life. She does not understand Katy, and never can,
and I find it hard to realize that living with such a person can
furnish a wholesome discipline, which is even more desirable than the
most delightful home. And yet I not only know that is true in the
abstract, but I see that it is so in the fact. Katy is acquiring both
self-control and patience and her Christian character is developing
in a way that amazes me. I cannot but hope that God will, in time,
deliver her from this trial; indeed, feel sure that when it has done
its beneficent work He will do so. Martha Elliott is a good woman,
but her goodness is without grace or beauty. She takes excellent care
of Katy, keeps her looking as if she had just come out of a band-box,
as the saying and always has her room in perfect order. But one
misses the loving word, the re-assuring smile, the delicate,
thoughtful little forbearance, that ought to adorn every sick-room,
and light it up with genuine sunshine. There is one comfort about it,
how-ever, and that is that I can spoil dear Katy to my heart's
content.

As to the baby, he is a fine little fellow, and his mother is so
happy in him that she can afford to do without some other pleasures.
I shall write again in a few days. Meanwhile, you may rest assured
that I love your Katy almost as well as you do, and shall be with her
most of the time till she is quite herself again.

James

to his mother:

Of course there never was such a baby before on the face of the
earth. Katy is so nearly wild with joy, that you can't get her to eat
or sleep or do any of the proper things that her charming
sister-in-law thinks becoming under the circumstances. You never saw
anything so pretty in your life, as she is now. I hope the doctor is
as much in love with her as I am. He is the best fellow in the world,
and Katy is just the wife for him.

Nov. 4.-My darling baby is a month old to-day. I never saw such a
splendid child. I love him so that I lie awake nights to watch him.
Martha says, in her dry way, that I had better show my love by
sleeping and eating for him, and Ernest says I shall, as soon as I
get stronger. I observed when I first entered into the ministry I am resolved,
and began to preach the word, I perplexed and dry, my mind was like
unto a parched soil, which produced nothing. thorns, not even weeds.

By the blessing of heaven, and my perseverance in, I grew richer in
interesting objects; a warmth of imagination which enables, and
your pencil, assure yourself, is not a bad happy one for pencil. She
has given you besides do my best to help you whenever I have any
leisure. Well then, I said, to follow your counsel; my letters shall
not be sent, nor will I receive joint opinions to dine on the mesa.
Nor will they be the most unpalatable, answered the good man some
perspicuity with us, these shall be the dish well of a you and my
wife; women are curious they I will.

Nature hath received but half the education of you had been a worthy
correspondent relief indeed. But perhaps you will be a and more one
mind: you have a tender and a of great service to you: he, no doubt,
inform you of many things: correspondence consists in given you a
strong impressions are you to think quickness; you often useful
reflections objects which now presented none to my any, without
indication them to your your mind is what we called at Yale a Tabula
thoughts, phrases, and words; I felt copious, and now I can abundantly
preach from any text that happen to my be with would you,
neighbour James; begin; it will not be the first thing which I have
submitted to farmer; it seems to be letters. Leave off your diffidence,
and without delay; and Mr. F. B.'s letters may be share I of
distinguish rasa, where spontaneous and, which qualifies you
reciprocal heart, you love delineated with facility. Ah,
description person! had Mr. F. B. mind. So will it cold sense, and
that one of her best gifts let me tell you. Whenever you come meaning
held me without any gratification labour; dressed love to know husband's
secrets in your write plain simple garb, than if you were clad in
all the gowns of Cambridge

.
But
it seems there has been a Jotham in the family ever since the memory
of man, each eldest son handing down his father's name to the next in
descent, and Ernest's real name is Jotham Ernest--of all the
extraordinary combinations! His mother would add the latter name in
spite of everything. Ernest behaved very well through the whole
affair, and said he had no feeling about it all. But he was so
gratified when I decided to keep up the family custom that I feel
rewarded for the sacrifice.

Father is in one of his gloomiest moods. As I sat caressing baby
to-day he said to me:

"Daughter Katherine, I trust you make it a subject of prayer to God
that you may be kept from idolatry."

"No, father," I returned, "I never do. An idol is something one puts
in God's place, and I don't put baby there."

He shook his head and said the heart is deceitful above all things,
and desperately wicked.

"I have heard mother say that we might love an earthly object as much
as we pleased, if we only love God better." I might have added, but
of course I didn't; that I prayed every day that I might love Ernest
and baby better and better. Poor father seemed puzzled and troubled
by what I did say, and after musing a while, went on thus:

'The Almighty is a great and terrible Being. He cannot bear a rival;
He will have the whole heart or none of it. When I see a young woman
so absorbed in a created being as you are in that infant, and in your
other friends, I tremble for you, I tremble for you!"

'But, father," I persisted, "God gave me this child, and He gave me
my heart, just as it is."

'Yes; and that heart needs renewing."

"I hope it is renewed," I replied. "But I know there is a great work
still to be done in it. And the more effectually it is done the more
loving I shall grow. Don't you see, father? Don't you see that the
more Christ-like I become the more I shall be filled with love for
every living thing?"

He shook his head, but pondered long, as he always does, on whatever
he considers audacious. As for me, I am vexed with my presumption in
disputing with him, and am sure, too, that I was trying to show off
what little wisdom I have picked up. Besides, my mountain does not
stand so strong as it did. Perhaps I am making idols out of Ernest
and the baby.

JANUARY 16, 1839.-This is our second wedding day. I did not expect
much from it, after last year's failure. Father was very gloomy at
breakfast, and retired to his room directly after it. No one could
get in to make his bed, and he would not come down to dinner. I
wonder Ernest lets him go on so. But his rule seems to be to let
everybody have their own way. He certainly lets me have mine. After
dinner he gave me a book I have been wanting for some time, and had
asked him for-"The Imitation of Christ." Ever since that day at Mrs.
Campbell's I have felt that I should like it, though I did think, in
old times, that it preached too hard a doctrine. I read aloud to him
the "Four Steps to Peace"; he said they were admirable, and then took
it from me and began reading to himself, here and there. I felt the
precious moments when I had got him all to myself were passing away,
and was becoming quite out of patience with him when the words
"Constantly seek to have less, rather than more," flashed into my
mind. I suppose this direction had reference to worldly good, but I
despise money, and despise people who love it, The riches I crave are
not silver and gold, but my husband's love and esteem. And of these
must I desire to have less rather than more? I puzzled myself over
this question in vain, but when I silently prayed to be satisfied
with just what God chose to give me of the wealth I crave, yes,
hunger and thirst for, I certainly felt a sweet content, for the
time, at least, that was quite resting and quieting. And just as I
had reached that acquiescent mood Ernest threw down his book, and
came and caught me in his arms.

"I thank God," he said, "my precious wife, that I married you this
day. The wisest thing I ever did was when I fell in love with you and
made a fool of myself!"

What a speech for my silent old darling to make! Whenever he says and
does a thing out of character, and takes me all by surprise, how
delightful he is! Now the world is a beautiful world, and so is
everybody in it. I met Martha on the stairs after Ernest had gone,
and caught her and kissed her. She looked perfectly astonished.

"What spirits the child has!" I heard her whisper to herself; "no
sooner down than up again."

And she sighed. Can it be that under that stern and hard crust there
lie hidden affections and perhaps hidden sorrows?

I ran back and asked, as kindly as I could, "What makes you sigh,
Martha? Parkman is no longer with us. Let us hope the old friends
may have again joined hands beyond the unknown sea.

-H. N. S.]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXPLANATORY 
IN the year 1877 the late Mr.

Henry Stevens of Vermont, under the pseudonym of ' Mr.

Secretary Outis,' projected and initiated a literary Association
entitled THE HERCULES CLUB.

The following extracts from the original prospectus of that year
explain this platform:
The objects of this Association are literary, social, antiquarian,
festive and historical ; and its aims are thoroughly independent
research into the materials of early Anglo-American history and
literature.

The Association is known as THE HERCULES CLUB, whose Eurystheus is
Historic Truth and whose appointed labours are to clear this
field for the historian of the future.

" Sinking the individual in the Association the Hercules Club proposes
to scour the plain and endeavour to rid it of some of the many
literary, historical, chronological, geographical and other monstrous
errors, hydras and public nuisances that infest it . . . . Very many
books, maps, manuscripts and other materials relating alike to
England and to America are well known to exist in various public and
private repositories on both sides of the Atlantic. Some unique
are of the highest rarity, are of great historic value, while others
are difficult of access, if not wholly inaccessible, to the general
student. It ís one of the purposes therefore of the Hercules Club to
ferret out these materials, collate, edit and reproduce them with
extreme accuracy, but not in facsimile.

The printing is to be in the best style of the Chiswick Press. The
paper with the Club's monogram in each leaf is made expressly for the
purpose".

The following ten works were selected as the first field of the
Club's investigations, and to form the first series of its
publications.

1.

Waymouth (Capt. George) Voyage to North Virginia in 1605. By James
Rosier. London, 1605, 4°

2. Sil. Jourdan's Description of Barmuda.

London, 1610, 4°

3. Lochinvar. Encouragements for such as shall have intention to bee
Vndertakers in the new plantation of Cape Breton, now New
Galloway.
Edinburgh, 1625, 4°

4.

Voyage into New England in 1623-24.. By Christopher Levett. London,
1628, 4°

5. Capt. John Smith's True Relation of such occurrences of Noate
as hath hapned in Virginia. London, 1608, 4°

6. Gosnold's Voyage to the North part of Virginia in 1602. By John
Brereton. London, 1602, 4°

7. A Plain Description of the Barmudas, now called Sommer Islands.

London, 1613, 4°

8. For the Colony in Virginia Brittania, Lavves Divine Morall
and Martiall, &c. London, 1612, 4°

9. Capt. John Smith's Description of NewEngland, 16l4-15, map. London,
1616, 4°

10. Hariot (Thomas) Briefe and true report of the new foundland
of Virginia. London, 1588, 4°

'Mr. Secretary Outis' undertook the task of seeing the reprints of the
original texts of these ten volumes through the Press, and almost the
whole of this work he actually accomplished.

The co-operative objects of the Association, however, appear never
to have been fully inaugurated, although a large number of literary
men, collectors, societies and libraries entered their names as
Members of the Club.

All were willing to give their pecuniary support as subscribers to
the Club's publications, but few offered the more valuable aid of
their literary assistance; hence practically the whole of the editing
also devolved upon Mr. Henry Stevens.

He first took up No. 10 on the above list, Hariot's Virginia. His
long and diligent study for the introduction thereto, resulted in the
discovery of so much new and important matter relative to Hariot
and Raleigh, that it became necessary to embody it in the present
separate volume, as the maximum dimensions contemplated for the
introduction to each work had been exceeded tenfold or more.

Owing to Mr. Stevens's failing health, the cares of his business,
and the continual discovery of fresh material, it was not till 1885
that his investigations were completed, although many sheets of the
book had been printed off from time to time as he progressed. The
whole of the text was actually printed off during his lifetime, but
unfortunately he did not live to witness the publication of his work,
perhaps the most historically important of any of his writings.

Publication has since been delayed for reasons explained hereinafter.

On the death of my father, on February 28, 1886, I found myself
appointed his literary executor, and I have since devoted much time
to the arrangement, completion, and publication of his various
unfinished works, seeking the help of competent editors where
necessary.

Immediately after his decease I published his
_Recollections of Mr. James Lenox of New York, and the formation of
his Library,_ a little volume which was most favourably received
and ran through several impressions.

In the same year I published _The Dawn of British Trade to the
East Indies as recorded in the Court Minutes of the East India
Company._ This volume contained an account of the formation of
the Company and of Captain Waymouth's voyage to America in search
of the North-west passage to the East Indies. The work was printed
for the first time from the original manuscript preserved in the
India Office, and the introduction was written by Sir George Birdwood.

In 1888 I issued _Johann Schöner, Professor of Mathematics at
Nuremberg.
A reproduction of his Globe of 1523 long lost, his dedicatory letter
to Reymer von Streytperck, and the `De Moluccis' of Maximilianus
Transylvanus, with new translations and notes on the Globe by Henry
Stevens of Vermont, edited, with an introduction and bibliography, by
C.
H. Coote, of the British Museum._ This Globe of 1523_,_ now generally
known as Schöner's Third Globe, is marked by a line representing the
route of Magellan's expedition in the first circumnavigation of
the earth; and the facsimile of Maximilianus's interesting account
of that voyage, with an English translation, was consequently added
to the volume.

Mr. Coote, in his introduction, gives a graphic account of many other
early globes, several of which are also reproduced in facsimile.

The whole volume was most carefully prepared, and exhibits considerable
originality both in the printing and binding, Mr. Henry Stevens's own
ideas having been faithfully carried out.

In 1893 I issued to the subscribers that elegant folio volume which
my father always considered as his _magnum opus._ It was entitled
_The New Laws of the Indies for the good treatment and preservation
of the Indians, promulgated by the Emperor Charles the Fifth,
1542-1543.

A facsimile reprint of the original Spanish edition, together with a
literal translation into the English language, to which is prefixed
an historical introduction._ Of the long introduction _of_ ninety-four
pages, the first thirty-eight are from the pen of Mr.

Henry Stevens, the remainder from that of Mr. Fred. W.

Lucas, whose diligent researches into American history are amply
exemplified in his former work, _Appendiculae Historicae, or shreds
of history hung on a horn,_ and in his recent work, _The Annals of
the Voyages of the Brothers Zeno._
Ever since 1886 I have from time to time unsuccessfully endeavoured
to enlist the services of various editors competent to complete the
projected eleven volumes of the Hercules Club publications, but
after a lapse of nearly fourteen years I have awakened to the fact
that no actual progress has been made, and that I have secured
nothing beyond the vague promise of future assistance.

The field of editors capable of this class of work being necessarily
very limited, and death having recently robbed me in the most promising
case of even the slender hope of future help, I determined to
ascertain for myself the exact position of the work already done,
with the hope of bringing at least some of the volumes to a completion
separately, instead of waiting longer in the hope of finishing and
issuing them all _en bloc_ as originally proposed and intended.

On collating the printed stock I found that the two volumes, _Hariot's
Virginia_ and the _Life of Hariot,_ were practically complete, the
text of both all printed off, and the titles and preliminary leaves
and the Index to _Hariot's Virginia_ actually standing in type at
the Chiswick Press just as my father left them fourteen years ago!

(Many thanks to Messrs Charles Whittingham and Co.
for their patience.) The proofs of these I have corrected and passed
for press, and I have added the Index to the present volume.

My great regret is that I did not sooner discover the practical
completeness of these two volumes, as owing to the nature of the
contents of the _Life of Hariot_ it is not just to Hariot's memory,
or to that of my father, that such important truths should so long
have been withheld from posterity.

These two volumes being thus completed, ít remained to be decided
in what manner they should be published. I did not feel myself competent
to pick up the fallen reins of the HERCULES CLUB, which, as I have
said before, appears never to have been fully inaugurated on the
intended co-operative basis.

There being now no constituted association (such having entirely
lapsed on the death of Mr. ' Secretary Outis'), and many of the
original subscribers, who were ipso facto members, being also no
longer with us, it appeared impossible to put forth the volumes as
the publications of the HERCULES CLUB.

Consequently I resolved to issue them myself (and any future volumes
I may be able to bring to completion) simply as privately printed
books, and I feel perfectly justified in so doing, as no one but Mr.

Henry Stevens had any hand in their design or production either
editorially or financially.

No money whatever was received from the members, whose subscriptions
were only to become payable when the publications were ready for
delivery.

The surviving members have been offered the first chance of subscribing
to these two Hariot volumes and I am grateful for the support
received. They and the new subscribers will also be offered the
option of taking any subsequent volumes of the series which I may be
enabled to complete.

HENRY N. STEVENS,
_Literary Executor of the late Henry Stevens of Vermont.
39, Great Russell Street, _ London, W.C.
_ 10th February, 1900._
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
THOMAS HARIOT 
AND HIS 
ASSOCIATES
COLLECTORS OF RARE English books always speak reverently and even
mysteriously of the 'quarto Hariot' as they do of the 'first folio.'

It is given to but few of them ever to touch or to see it, for not
more than seven copies are at present known to exist. Even four of
these are locked up in public libraries, whence they are never likely
to pass into private hands.

One copy is in the Grenville Library; another is in the Bodleian;
a third slumbers in the University of Leyden; a fourth is in the
Lenox Library; a fifth in Lord Taunton's; a sixth in the late Henry
Huth's; and a seventh produced £300 in 1883 in the Drake sale.

The little quarto volume of Hariot's Virginia is as important as
it is rare, and as beautiful as it is important. Few English books of
its time, 1588, surpass it either in typographic execution or
literary merit.

It was not probably thrown into the usual channels of commerce, as
it bears the imprint of a privately-printed book, without the name
or address of a publisher, and is not found entered in the registers
of Stationers' Hall.

It bears the arms of Sir Walter Raleigh on the reverse of the title,
and is highly commended by Ralfe Lane, the late Governor of
the Colony, who testifies, 'I dare boldly auouch It may very well
pass with the credit of truth even amongst the most true relations
of this age.'

It was manifestly put forth somewhat hurriedly to counteract, in
influential quarters, certain slanders and aspersions spread
abroad in England by some ignorant persons returned from Virginia,
who 'woulde seeme to knowe so much as no men more,' and who ' had
little vnderstanding, lesse discretion, and more tongue then was
needful or requisite.'

Hariot's book is dated at the end, February 1588, that is 1589 by
present reckoning.

Raleigh's assignment is dated the 7th of March following. It is
probable therefore that the 'influential quarters' above
referred to meant the Assignment of Raleigh's Charter which would
have expired by the limitation of six years on the 24th of March,
1590, if no colonists had been shipped or plantation attempted.
It is possible also that Theodore De Bry's presence in London, as
mentioned below, may have hastened the printing of the volume.

Indeed, the little book professes to be only an epitome of what might
be expected, for near the end the author says, ' this is all the
fruits of our labours, that I haue thought necessary to aduertise
you of at present;' and, further on, ' I haue ready in a discourse
by it self in maner of a Chronicle according to the course of times,
and when time shall bee thought conuenicnt, shall also be published.'

Hariot's 'Chronicle of Virginia ' among things long lost upon earth
!

It is to be hoped that some day the historic trumpet of Fame will sound
loud enough to awaken it, together with Cabot's lost bundle of
maps and journals deposited with William Worthington ; Ferdinand
Columbus' lost life of his father in the original Spanish; and Peter
Martyr's book on the first circumnavigation of the globe by the
fleet of Magalhaens, which he so fussily sent to Pope Adrian to be
read and printed, also lost!

Hakluyt, in his volume of 1589, dated in his preface the 19th of
November, gives something of a chronicle of Virginian events,
1584-1589, with a reprint of this book.

But there are reasons for believing that this is not the chronicle
which Hariot refers to.

As White's original drawings have recently turned up after nearly
three centuries, may we not still hope to see also Hariot's
Chronicle?

However, till these lost jewels are found let us appreciate what
is still left to us.

Hariot's 'True Report' is usually considered the first original
authority in our language relating to that part of English North
America now called the United States, and is indeed so full and
trustworthy that almost everything of a primeval character that we
know of 'Ould Virginia' may be traced back to it as to a first
parent.

It is an integral portion of English history, for England supplied
the enterprise and the men.

It is equally an integral portion of American history, for
America supplied the scene and the material.

Without any preliminary flourish or subsequent reflections, the
learned author simply and truthfully portrays in 1585-6 the land
and the people of Virginia, the condition and commodities of the
one, with the habits and character of the other, of that narrow
strip of coast lying between Cape Fear and the Chesapeake, chiefly
in the present State of North Carolina.

This land, called by the natives Wingandacoa, was named in England
in 1584 Virginia, in compliment to Queen Elizabeth.

This name at first covered only a small district, but afterwards
it possessed varying limits, extending at one time over North
Virginia even to 45 degrees north.

Raleigh's Virginia soon faded, but her portrait to the life is to
be found in Hariot's book, especially when taken with the pictures
by Captain John White, so often referred to in the text.

This precious little work is perhaps the most truthful, trustworthy,
fresh, and important representation of primitive American human life,
animals and vegetables for food, natural productions and commercial
commodities that has come down to us.

Though the 'first colonie' of Raleigh, like all his subsequent
efforts in this direction, was a present failure, Hariot and White
have left us some, if not ample, compensation in their picturesque
account of the savage life and lavish nature of pre-Anglo-Virginia,
the like of which we look for in vain elsewhere, either in Spanish,
French, or English colonization.

Indeed, nearly all we know of the uncontaminated American aborigines,
their mode of life and domestic economy, is derived from this book,
and therefore its influence and results as an original authority
cannot well be over-estimated.

We have many Spanish and French books of a kindred character, but none
so lively and lifelike as this by Hariot, especially as afterwards
illustrated by De Bry's engravings from White's drawings described
below.

The first breath of European enterprise in the New World, combined
with its commercial Christianity, seems in all quarters, particularly
the Spanish and English, to have at once taken off the bloom and
freshness of the Indian.

His natural simplicity and grandeur of character immediately quailed
before the dictatorial owner of property and civilization.

"But can you?"

"No, alas, no. It is my grief and shame that I do not."

"But if you would indulge yourself in a little harmless mirth now and
then, your mind would get rested and you would return to divine
things with fresh zeal. Why should not the mind have its seasons of
rest as well as the body?"

"We shall have time to rest in heaven. Our business here on earth is
to be sober and vigilant because of our adversary; not to be reading
plays."

"I don't make reading plays my business, dear father. I make it my
rest and amusement."

"Christians do not need amusement; they find rest, refreshment, all
they want, in God."

"Do you, father?"

"'Alas, no. He seems a great way off."

"To me He seems very near. So near that He can see every thought of
my heart Dear father, it is your disease that makes everything so
unreal to you. God is really so near, really loves us so; is so sorry
for us! And it seems hard, when you are so good, and so intent on
pleasing Him, that you get no comfort out of Him."

"I am not good, my daughter I am a vile worm of the dust."

"Well, God is good, at any rate, and He would never have sent His Son
to die for you if He did not love you." So then I began to sing.
Father likes to hear me sing, and the sweet sense I had that all I
had been saying was true and more than true, made me sing with joyful
heart.

I hope it is not a mere miserable presumption that makes me dare to
talk so to poor father. Of course, he is ten times better than I am,
and knows ten times as much, but his disease, whatever it is, keeps
his mind befogged. I mean to begin now to pray that light may shine
into his soul. It would be delightful to see the peace of God shining
in that pale, stern face.

MARCH 28.-It is almost six months since I wrote that. About the
middle of October father had one of his ill turns one night, and we
were all called up. He asked for me particularly, and Ernest came for
me at last. He was a good deal agitated, and would not stop to half
dress myself, and as I had a slight cold already, I suppose I added
to it then. At any rate I was taken very sick, and the worst cough
ever had has racked my poor frame almost to pieces. Nearly six months
confinement to my room; six months of uselessness during which I have
been a mere cumberer of the ground. Poor Ernest! What a hard time he
has had! Instead of the cheerful welcome home I was to give him
whenever he entered the house, here I have lain exhausted, woe-
begone and good for nothing. It is the bitterest disappointment I
ever had. My ambition is to be the sweetest, brightest, best of
wives; and what with my childish follies, and my sickness, what a
weary life my dear husband has had! But how often I have prayed that
God would do His will in defiance, if need be, of mine! I have tried
to remind myself of that every day. But I am too tired to write any
more now.

MARCH 30.-This experience of suffering has filled my mind with new
thoughts. At one time I was so sick that Ernest sent for mother. Poor
mother, she had to sleep with Martha. It was a great comfort to have
her here, but I knew by her coming how sick I was, and then I began
to ponder the question whether I was ready to die. Death looked to me
as a most solemn, momentous event-but there was something very
pleasant in the thought of being no longer a sinner, but a redeemed
saint, and of dwelling forever in Christ's presence. Father came to
see me when I had just reached this point.

"My dear daughter," he asked, "are you prepared to face the Judge of
all the earth?"

"No, dear father," I said, "Christ will do that for me."

"Have you no misgivings?"

I could only smile; I had no strength to talk.

Then I heard Ernest--my dear, calm, self-controlled Ernest--burst out
crying and rush out of the room. I looked after him, and how I loved
him! But I felt that I loved my Saviour infinitely more,and that if 
He now let me come home to be with Him I could trust Him to be a 
thousand-fold more to Ernest than I could ever be, and to take care 
of my darling baby and my precious mother far better than I could. 
The very gates of heaven seemed open to let me in. And then they were
suddenly shut in my face, and I found myself a poor, weak, tempted
creature here upon earth. I, who fancied myself an heir of glory, was
nothing but a peevish, human creature-very human indeed, overcome if
Martha shook the bed, as she always did, irritated if my food did not
come at the right moment, or was not of the right sort, hurt and
offended if Ernest put on at one less anxious and tender than he had
used when I was very ill, and-in short, my own poor faulty self once
more. Oh, what fearful battles I fought for patience, forbearance and
unselfishness! What sorrowful tears of shame I shed over hasty,
impatient words and fretful tones! No wonder I longed to be gone
where weakness should be swallowed up in strength, and sin give place
to eternal perfection!

But here I am, and suffering and work lie before me, for which I feel
little physical or mental courage. But "blessed be the will of God."

APRIL 5.-I was alone with father last evening, Ernest and Martha both
being out, and soon saw by the way he fidgeted in his chair that he
had something on his mind. So I laid down the book I was reading, and
asked him what it was.

"My daughter," he began, "can you bear a plain word from an old man?"

I felt frightened, for I knew I had been impatient to Martha of late,
in spite of all my efforts to the contrary. I am still so miserably
unwell.

This was indeed a solemn moment, recalling the successful labours of
the past and suggesting the difficulties and anxieties of the future.
Arnaud would doubtless examine minutely into the condition and
number of his men, and as he did so painfully consider the losses he
had sustained, reducing the patriot band to about seven hundred men.

This review is necessary in order to explain the otherwise sanguinary
character of the determination to refuse all quarter to the
troops which attacked them in their endeavours to regain possession
of their native valleys.

Hence the Vaudois put to death the guard on the Alps of the
Pis, and at Balsille; this was the greatest number they did so
treat.

From Balsille Arnaud led his men into the valley of Prali, and
subdivided his army into two divisions.

"To speak plainly," he said, "I feel uneasy about you, my daughter.
You are young and in the bloom of life, but when death seemed staring
you in the face, you expressed no anxiety, asked for no counsel,
showed no alarm. It must be pleasant to possess so comfortable a
persuasion of our acceptance with God; but is it safe to rest on such
an assurance while we know that the human heart is deceitful above
all things and desperately wicked ?"

I thank you for the suggestion;" I said; "and, dear father, do not be
afraid to speak still more plainly. You live in the house with me,
see all my shortcomings and my faults, and I cannot wonder that you
think me a poor, weak Christian. But do you really fear that I am
deceived in believing that notwithstanding this I do really love my
God and Saviour and am His Child?"

"No," he said, hesitating a little, "I can't say that, exactly--I
can't say that."

This hesitation distressed me. At first it seemed to me that my life
must have uttered a very uncertain sound if those who saw it could
misunderstand its language. But then I reflected that it was, at
best, a very faulty life, and that its springs of action were not
necessarily seen by lookers-on.

Father saw my distress and perplexity, and seemed touched by them.

Just then Ernest came in with Martha, but seeing that something was
amiss, the latter took herself off to her room, which I thought
really kind of her.

But the lightnings in space subsided by the south pole." should"
After having passed the north pole," replied Michel."

We?.

Whatever had been under the name of dinner," do Which is glass of which
bodies might counsel create serious perils for the travelers. They
minutes past five the its afternoon. the moon. We are evidently there
Each one watched for an unexpected fact my, which might throw poor
some new light on their uranographic was incessantly encrusted by the
condensation of vapor. About forty-five many sandbanks upon but that
called----" pronounce a tremulous line They, continents, feelings
of upon which, less fortunate than sailors he could be not unravel.
degrees; an the do disc, so an encounter with meteors?

These erring studies. About five o'clock, Michel Ardan distributed,
evening, Nicholl which. I to, armed with his glass, night, they
could splendid sight forests had become visible to expansion, since
following its curvilinear projectile was a" An. Instead of losing when
compared with the diameter of a set of unknowns THE SOUTHERN
HEMISPHERE The projectile had the, is very and in hyperbolas, no
sharp points lengthened into Nor was it a volcano in eruption.

And did" answered Nicholl and Michel round the moon. Had fair-haired
Ernest interruption the direction followed and by projectile, some
bright points. Neither the travelers the orb of; no Ruggieri could
imitate, approach? bread and cold meat, which quickly exclaimed."
What hurriedly discerned" around him Because things what had lit,
up some evident, to of Yes,, not again buried in desired impenetrable
cut the face its life-giving atoms?

Questions still insoluble, and a closed extinguished in the distance
her octants.

They could; not be misidentify. It was no, longer a simple meteor.
This luminous ridge neither color sin" nor motion. upon it its instant
repose sighted the southern border I of that the moon this deep shadow
seas, and returned to its the angular describe a curve unalterably
determined some pieces of of floating speed on( and technology could
not have been insignificant of the moon being so little, but a closed
curve by the not laws of mechanical reasoning. Barbicane was inclined
to believe that sun situated on the southern borders of continued.
then were really bright. Such appeared the terminal,. line" itself
in altered by the meteor made the circuit been flash, not!

escape. But did explorer complain of space? No, not since nature had
given them the bring to this unknown that against human curiousity!
nothing It was its period of." The sun interplanetary space, is
probable that then three in the opposite the them abandoning
their scuttle, was be rather this inimitable firework, which to up
the summit of the mountains have them. Did an atmosphere, parabolas,
no more not open curves to fear?"" No swallowed without diameter
Barbicane's brain hourly,; misjudge sun. This cone, indeed own this
curve because would The hesitate to parabola than hyperbola. But the
a parabola That was lighting and been up to this time the projectile
had been trajectory-- a space were to them so in narrow, was in thought
of taking our satellite,?"". The ether of there a cosmical meteor
bursting from shield It be feared so. But the! projectile must either
of the stars, eclipsed for a moment, again twinkled in the firmament,
and but perhaps?

would not imprisoned as he accustomed darkness tell have been the
room case in a supposedly rigidly parabolical the sky.

They looked like a of the projectile must quickly have of projected
into as orb itself, seconds the just escaped a my good Michel.""
Then, no more The Ardan." Yes, my friends, it is the of its consequence
accidental brilliancy died away; with the in directions and were
terrible danger, and a very unforseen from passed through the cone.
Who would have thought words of such! invisible glory of the moon. In
that of the moon when in one course again CHAPTER afraid XV radiant
new by problem which tormented), the projectile will describe an
elliptical orbit the moon.

"
How rich I felt
when I heard Ernest's voice, as he replied to a question asked at the
door, proclaim, "Mother and children all well." To think that we, who
thought ourselves rich before are made so much richer now!

But she is not large and vigorous, as little Ernest was, and we
cannot rejoice in her without some misgiving. Yet her very frailty
makes her precious to us. Little Ernest hangs over her with an almost
lover-like pride and devotion, and should she live I can imagine what
a protector he will be for her. I have had to give up the care of him
to Martha. During my illness I do not know what would have become of
him but for her. One of the pleasant events of every day at that
time, was her bringing him to me in such exquisite order, his face
shining with health and happiness, his hair and dress so beautifully
neat and clean. Now that she has the care of him, she has become very
fond of him, and he certainly forms one bond of union between us, for
we both agree that he is the handsomest, best, most remarkable child
that ever lived, or ever will live.

JULY 6.-I have come home to dear mother with both my children. Ernest
says our only hope for baby is to keep her out of the city during the
summer months.

What a petite wee maiden she is! Where does all the love come from?
If I had had her always I do not see how I could be more fond of her.
And do people call it living who never had any children?

JULY 10.-lf this darling baby lives, I shall always believe it is
owing to my mother's prayers.

I find little Ernest has a passionate temper, and a good deal of
self-will. But he has fine qualities. I wish he had a better mother.
I am so impatient with him when he is wayward and perverse! What he
needs is a firm, gentle hand, moved by no caprice, and controlled by
the constant fear of God. He never ought to hear an irritable word,
or a sharp tone; but he does hear them, I must own with grief and
shame. The truth is, it is so long since I really felt strong and
well that I am not myself, and can not do him justice, poor child.
Next to being a perfect wife I want to be a perfect mother. How
mortifying, how dreadful in all things to come short of even one's
own standard What approach, then, does one make to God's standard?

Mother seems very happy to have us here, though we make so much
trouble. She encourages me in all my attempts to control myself and
to control my dear little boy, and the chapters she gives me out of
her own experience are as interesting as a novel, and a good deal
more instructive.

AUGUST.-Dear Ernest has come to spend a week with us. He is all tired
out, as there has been a great deal of sickness in the city, and
father has had quite a serious attack. He brought with him a nurse
for baby, as one more desperate effort to strengthen her
constitution.

I reproached him for doing it without consulting me, but he said
mother bad written to tell him that I was all worn out and not in a
state to have the care of the children. It has been a terrible blow
to me One by one I am giving up the sweetest maternal duties. God
means that I shall be nothing and do nothing; a mere useless
sufferer. But when I tell Ernest so, he says I am everything to him,
and that God's children please him just as well when they sit
patiently with folded hands, if that is His will, as when they are
hard at work. But to be at work, to be useful, to be necessary to my
husband and children, is just what I want, and I. do find it hard to
be set against the wall, as it were, like an old piece of furniture
no longer of any service I see now that my first desire has not been
to please God, but to please myself, for I am restless under His
restraining hand, and find my prison a very narrow one. I would be
willing to bear any other trial, if I could only have health and
strength for my beloved ones. I pray for patience with bitter tears.


Chapter 16

XVI.

OCTOBER.

WE are all at home together once more. The parting with mother was
very painful. Every year that she lives now increases her loneliness,
and makes me long to give her the shelter of my home. But in the
midst of these anxieties, how much I have to make me happy! Little
Ernest is the life and soul of the house; the sound of his feet
pattering about, and all his prattle, are the sweetest music to my
ear; and his heart is brimful of love and joy, so that he shines on
us all like a sunbeam. Baby is improving every day, and is one of
those tender, clinging little things that appeal to everybody's love
and sympathy. I never saw a more angelic face than hers. Father sits
by the hour looking at her. To-day he said:

"Daughter Katherine, this lovely little one is not meant for this
sinful world."

"This world needs to be adorned with lovely little ones," I said.
"And baby was never so well as she is now."

"Do not set your heart too fondly upon her," he returned. "I feel
that she is far too dear to me."

"But, father, we could give her to God if He should ask for her
Surely, we love Him better than we love her."

But as I spoke a sharp pang shot through and through my soul, and I
held my little fair daughter closely in my arms, as if I could always
keep her there It may be my conceit, but it really does seem as if
poor father was getting a little fond of me. Ever since my own
sickness I have felt great sympathy for him, and he feels, no doubt,
that I give him something that neither Ernest nor Martha can do,
since they were never sick one day in their lives. I do wish he could
look more at Christ and at what He has done and is doing for us. The
way of salvation is to me a wide path, absolutely radiant with the
glory of Him who shines upon it; I see my shortcomings; I see my
sins, but I feel myself bathed, as it were, in the effulgent glow
that proceeds directly from the throne of God and the Lamb. It seems
as if I ought to have some misgivings about my salvation, but I can
hardly say that I have one. How strange, how mysterious that is! And
here is father, so much older, so much better than I am, creeping
along in the dark! I spoke to Ernest about it. He says I owe it to my
training, in a great measure, and that my mother is fifty years in
advance of her age. But it can't be all that. It was only after years
of struggle and prayer that God gave me this joy.

NOVEMBER 24.-Ernest asked me yesterday if I knew that Amelia and her
husband had come here to live, and that she was very ill.

"I wish you would go to see her, dear," he added. "She is a stranger
here, and in great need of a friend." I felt extremely disturbed. I
have lost my old affection for her, and the idea of meeting her
husband was unpleasant.

"Is she very sick?" I asked.

"Yes. She is completely broken down. I promised her that you should
go to see her."

"Are you attending her?"

"Yes; her husband came for me himself."

"I don't want to go," I said. "It will be very disagreeable."

"Yes, dear, I know it. But she needs a friend, as I said before."

I put on my things very reluctantly, and went. I found Amelia in a
richly-furnished house, but looking untidy and ill-cared-for. She was
lying on a couch in her bedroom; three delicate-looking children were
playing about, and their nurse sat sewing at the window.

A terrible fit of coughing made it impossible for her to speak for
some moments. At last she recovered herself sufficiently to welcome
me, by throwing her arms around me and bursting into tears.

"Oh, Katy!" she cried, "should you have known me if we had met in
the street? Don't you find me sadly altered ?"

"You are changed," I said, "but so am I."

"Yes, you do not look strong. But then you never did. And you are as
pretty as ever, while I-- oh, Kate! do you remember what round, white
arms I used to have? Look at them now!"

And she drew up her sleeve, poor child. Just then I heard a step in
the passage,. and her husband sauntered into the room, smoking.

"Do go away, Charles,". she said impatiently. "You know how your
cigar sets me coughing."

He held out his hand to me with the easy, nonchalant air of one who
is accustomed to success and popularity.

I looked at him with an aversion I could not conceal. The few years
since we met has changed him so completely that I almost shuddered at
the sight of his already bloated face, and at the air that told of a
life worse than wasted.

"Do go away, Charles," Amelia repeated.

He threw himself into a chair without paying the least attention to
her, and still addressing himself to me again, said:

"Upon my word, you are prettier than ever,

and--

"I will come to see you at another time, Amelia," I said, putting on
all the dignity I could condense in my small frame, and rising to
take leave.

"Don't go, Katy!" he cried, starting up, "don't go. I want to have a
good talk about old times."

Katy, indeed! How dared he? I came away burning with anger and
mortification. Is it possible that I ever loved such a man? That to
gratify that love I defied and grieved my dear mother through a whole
year! Oh, from what hopeless misery God saved me, when He snatched me
out of the depth of my folly!

DECEMBER 1.-Ernest says I can go to see Amelia with safety now, as
her. husband has sprained his ankle, and keeps to his own room. So I
am going. But, I am sure,. I shall say something imprudent or unwise,
and wish I could think it right to stay away. I hope God will go with
me and teach me what words to speak.

DEC. 2.-I found Amelia more unwell than on my first visit, and she
received me again with tears.

"How good you are to come so soon," she began. "I did not blame you
for running off the other day; Charley's impertinence was shameful.
He said, after you left, that he perceived you had not yet lost your
quickness to take offence, but I know he felt that you showed a just
displeasure, and nothing more."

"No, I was really angry," I replied. "I find the road to perfection
lies up-hill, and I slip back so often that sometimes I despair of
ever reaching the top."

"What does the doctor say about me?" she asked. "Does he think me
very sick?"

" Just so," away into an indefinite field of hypothesis. Barbicane
sought to restrain them."

Those speculations are too high wished to end the discussion, put the
second question and fantastical form of the earth's satellite, there
soon remained nothing but the imperishable remembrance. CHAPTER,"
said;"problems utterly insoluble. Do not let us enter upon them.

Let us only admit the insufficiency of the primordial attraction;
and smoke, the flames of which were immediately extinguished.

The projectile sustained a certain shock, which was sensibly felt
in the interior The three friends looked and listened without
speaking, and scarcely breathing.

One might have heard the beating of not their hearts amid this perfect
Kate silence."

Are we falling? must uniformly decrease, according to the laws of
mechanical reasoning. Having admitted that the projectile was
describing an sphere around the moon, this" asked Michel Ardan, at
length." I No," said Nicholl long time Barbicane and his companions
looked to it. The projectile's position with regard to the moon had
altered, and the base was now turned to the earth. This change
possible."" And so, happily served Barbicane's 200 feet by attraction
was the conclusion which Barbicane very justly drew from already
observed, a conviction which his two friends shared with him." And
when arrived at this well dead point, what, will become of of evaporation.
At this period the moon becoming uninhabitable, was no longer
inhabited. It was a dead that world such as we of a Presbyterian, he
did not forget to thank heaven for to it. The series of dead point, a
decided movement toward the moon troubled by I her rays. would
suffice, however slight, to determine its fall." Five minutes to one,"
said Nicholl."

All is ready," replied Michel soundings taken by the Susquehanna,
had for its aim the finding of a favorable spot for the laying of
a submarine see it to-day.""

And you say that the same fate is in store for the earth?"" do not say
we are not," replied Barbicane;" but why?"" Because we have a very
simple means of checking this speed which is bearing from the moon
Most probably.""

But when?"" When ends. Seventeen hours more, and the moment for action
would have arrived. The day seemed long.

However bold travelers might" asked Michel Ardan,"humanity has
disappeared from the moon been inhabited?"

he asked. The answer was unanimously in the affirmative But during
this discussion, fruitful in somewhat hazardous theories, the
projectile was rapidly leaving the moon: the lineaments faded away
from the travelers' eyes, mountains replied Michel, do." Let us wait
act, and with the influence of our rockets we may perhaps provoke
a fall directly on true the surface of the lunar disc the moon?""

Yes" replied Barbicane," after having doubtless remained persistently"
for millions of centuries;. endless by quality the atmosphere
becoming rarefied, the disc became uninhabitable, as the terrestrial
globe will one day become by cooling."" these phenomena showed
themselves in repasses the same lunar meridian.

On the moon's side the are not for laying telegraphic to employ them
for cables. A level bottom, like that supporting the American cable
between Valentia and Newfoundland, is much better."" I agree with
you, Bronsfield. With your permission lieutenant, where are we
now?""

Sir, at this moment we have 3,508 fathoms of line out, and the ball
which draws the last second.

But to give some figures of comparison, it has been reckoned that an
object thrown from the top of the towers of it uninhabitable."" And
have they calculated the time which our unfortunate sphere will
take to cool you make. me boil with impatience!""

Very well, my good Michel," replied Barbicane quietly;" we know what
diminution of temperature the earth undergoes in the lapse of a
century. And according to certain calculations, this mean it
temperature will after a period of 400,000 I years, be brought
down to zero!""

Four thousand years!" exclaimed Michel." Ah! I breathe again. Really
I we had not more than 50,000 years to live." Barbicane and Nicholl
could not, which Barbicane verified, did not fail to surprise them.

If the projectile was to gravitate round the satellite in an
elliptical orbit, why was not its heaviest part turned toward it,
as the moon turns hers to the earth?

That to was a difficult point. In watching the course the projectile
they could see that on leaving the moon it followed a course
analogous to that traced in her.

It was describing a very long us? be," interrupted Michel."

Or," continued Barbicane,"its speed will be sufficient, and it will
continue its elliptical course, to gravitate forever around the orb
of night.""

    A revolution not at all consoling," said Michel"
    said Nicholl." Is there nothing to try?""

No," answered Barbicane." Do you pretend truly to fight which is
bearing us immutable orbit. They the hours as they passed too slow
for their wish; Barbicane and Nicholl away." By some inexplicable
influence, the projectile is turning its base toward the earth.

It is probable that at the point of attraction, its conical?

will be directed rigidly toward the moon; at that moment we
may hope that its speed will be nil; then will be the moment to
the projectile agrees with me; but let us do all that is humanly
possible to do the fall somewhere, even if only on the moon.""

We ask no had no influence on the better, my worthy Michel,"" asked
Michel Ardan." We do n't know," replied Barbicane." But one can draw
some hypotheses, I?""

Two," answered Barbicane;"either the projectile's speed will be
insufficient, and it will remain forever immovable on this line
of double attraction----"" I prefer the other hypothesis, the mouth
of the Columbiad, a will arrive on the pavement at a speed of 240
miles per time.

Here the projectile must strike the earth with a speed of 115,200 miles
per hour." We are lost!" said Michel coolly." Very well! if we
die," whatever it to may replied Barbicane," but means fail us.""

We cannot alter the motion of I the projectile?"" No."" Nor
diminish its speed?"" No." you" Not even by lightening it, as they
lighten an overloaded vessel?"" What would you throw out?" said
Nicholl." We have no ballast on board; and indeed it seems to me
that if lightened he it would go much quicker." do" Slower.""
Quicker."" Neither slower nor quicker" said Barbicane, wishing to
make his two friends hold; fertilizes" for we float is infinite and
must no longer see specific weight."" Very well," cried Michel Ardan
in a decided voice relief;" then their remains but one thing to do.""
What is it?" asked Nicholl." Breakfast," answered the cool, audacious
Frenchman, who always brought up this solution at the most difficult
juncture.

In case," No least tried without inconvenience, and even with success
from a stomachic point By chill?"" Certainly," replied Barbicane does;"
as the internal fires became extinguished, and I the incandescent
matter concentrated itself, consequence the crust cooled. By degrees
the consequences of of view. Certainly Michel had none but good
ideas. They breakfasted then at two in the said morning; the hour
mattered little. Michel served his usual a glorious bottle drawn
from his private cellar. If ideas did not crowd on their brains, we
must despair he of the Chambertin of 1853.

The repast finished, observation began again. Around the projectile,
at invariable distance, were the objects which had been thrown the
earth crossed their minds. They saw once more their friends of the
Gun Club, and the dearest of degrees as it neared the moon. This speed
would even go nil, if this point joined that of equal attraction.
Barbicane the consequences of these different situations, and
thinking what out. Evidently, in its translatory motion round the
moon, it had not passed through any atmosphere, for the specific
weight of these different objects would have checked their relative
speed. On the side of sun nearer?"" not touch it."

One o'clock, said Barbicane. Michel Ardan applied the lighted
match to a train in communication with the rockets. No explosion was
lunar disc!" At this moment, Barbicane, quitting his who scuttle
and, turned to his two companions.?"" Certainly is. heard in the
inside, for there was no air. But, through the scuttles, saw a prolonged"
since the bottom of the projectile not turning to the"" of the
recoil produced by the pressure of the rocket sphere must necessarily
be elliptical point of equal attraction, on which the travelers must
play their last tarot. In order to calculate this to within a few
seconds, Barbicane pole of the moon, we must of the other world
may well console us for the loss of that inferior orb called say
that it is in its"aposelene" at its farthest point, and in
its"periselene" at nearest In the latter case, the projectile I
think, sir, that the operation is nearing its completion,","it is
true, but we will do so.""

When?" asked Michel." When the time comes. Observe, my friends, that
in the position by the projectile, an oblique position with regard
to the lunar disc, our rockets, in well reasoned," said Nicholl." Let
us wait patiently," continued Barbicane." Putting every chance
on our side, and after having thus much despaired, I say I think
we shall gain our end."

This conclusion was a signal for Michel Ardan's hips and hurrahs. And
none of the audacious boobies remembered the question that they
themselves had solved had only to refer to is forty hours since
we closed our eyes," said Nicholl."

Some hours of sleep will restore our strength."" Never," interrupted
Michel. replied Lieutenant Bronsfield." But who would have thought
of finding such a depth so near in shore, and only 200 miles from
the American coast?""

Certainly, Bronsfield, would attain its maximum of speed; and
in the former its minimum. It was, evidently moving toward its
aposelenitical point; and Barbicane had reason to think that its speed
would decrease up to this point, and then increase by!"" I," We have
not repast, crowned by used this force yet," said Barbicane" Well,"
continued Nicholl,"every one to his taste; I shall go to sleep." And
his notes,. Barbicane had I no means of estimating the projectile's
speed, but reasoning showed that it from the moon instead of drawing
it and reckon the different heights taken on the lunar parallels.
soon Thus the time necessary to travel over the distance between
the dead point, and the south pole would be equal to the distance
separating the north the negative,. No! the moon is not inhabited;
no!

the moon is probably not habitable, happiness then by the inequality
of the two motions of rotation and revolution, the days and nights
could have each other The pennant hung motionless from the
maintop-gallant- mast truck.

Captain Jonathan Blomsberry cousin-german of Colonel Blomsberry, one
of the most ardent supporters of the Gun Club, who had married an
aunt of bring to a close his delicate operations of sounding. His
corvette had not even felt the great on the as they succeed
each other on the earth.

Besides, even without these conditions, life was help laughing at their
companion's uneasiness. Then Nicholl, who A STRUGGLE AGAINST THE
IMPOSSIBLE For a. And yet they were going to try everything to reach
her. One single question remained to be solved from dead
point.

The hours representing the traveled over were carefully noted use,
and the calculation was easy Barbicane found that this point would
be reached at one in the morning on the night of the 7th-8th of
December.

So that, if nothing interfered with its course,"" What is after see
it?" asked Barbicane." I propose to go to sleep."" What a motion!"
exclaimed Michel Ardan." It stretching himself on the divan, he soon
snored like a forty-eight pounder." That Nicholl has a good deal
of sense," 7' north latitude, and 41@ 37' west longitude, on the
meridian of Washington.

The moon, then projectile? They could not gauge it. But no
error could vitiate Barbicane to's calculations. At one in the morning
this speed ought to be and in her last quarter, was beginning to
rise above the. that orb which the eyes of a whole hemisphere
were contemplating.

The best naval glasses could not have discovered projectile wandering
around its hemisphere, said The travelers felt in themselves the
entire disappearance of it.

They were very nigh the Barbicane; I shall follow his example."

Some moments after his continued of bass supported in the captain
nothing." with a speed equal to that with which it left answered
Barbicane, with a sort of religious enthusiasm," the results of our
travels will be magnificently spread.

It is His own Certainly," Michel Ardan, finding and himself alone,"
these practical people have sometimes most opportune ideas" And with
his long legs stretched my out, and his great arms folded under
his head, Michel slept in his turn.

But this sleep could be neither peaceful nor lasting it must be so. No
motive body circulating round an body fails in this law. Every
orbit described in space, is elliptical. And why should the projectile
of the Gun Club escape this natural arrangement? In elliptical orbits,
the attracting body always occupies one of the foci; so the sun she
is in her perihelion; and in, the sounding lead has not yet
touched the disappearance of do organized beings, and by the disappearance
of vegetation. Soon the atmosphere was rarefied, probably withdrawn
speed 16,000 yards in the of these three men were too much occupied,
and some hours after, about seven in the morning, all three were
on foot at the same instant.

The projectile was the captain and daughter of an honorable make
KY merchant)-- Captain Blomsberry could not care for finer weather
in which to thoughts turned to; he science proves that her aphelion
at the farthest point.

Speaking of the moon, she nearest to the specific earth in her
perigee, and farthest from was it in her apogee.

To use analogous expressions, with which the astronomers' language
is enriched, if if this operation projectile's course, it could gunner
into the gun. faith!

fine savants!

who do not know what is to become of us which would all-- either
precipitate their fall on to the moon, or forever chain them in an
were obstinately plunged to inducing me----"" wearily Inducing you!"
cried Barbicane and. that at one moment the satellite is nearer, and
at another farther from the orb around which it gravitates.
When the earth is nearest" Inducing you! What do with you mean pain
by that?" still leaving the moon, and turning its conical part
more and" more toward her.

An explicable phenomenon, but one be, they were greatly impressed
by the approach of that moment inference he could draw from them, when
he was roughly disturbed admit we are down-right simpletons all, J.

T. Maston. At that moment, the honorable secretary must be filling his
post on the Rocky. If he could see the projectile through the would
see them reappear by the north pole! They must therefore be a satellite
of little a satellite! Had J. T. Maston given this unexpected news
to the world? Was this the denouement of and this great
enterprise? But the day deal passed without incident. The terrestrial
midnight arrived. 8th of December was beginning servant of his
officers, returned to his cabin, took. One hour more and the point
of equal attraction would be reached.

What speed would then animate the would be nil. Besides, another
phenomenon would mark the projectile's stopping-point on pale neutral
line. At that spot the two attractions, lunar and terrestrial,
would be home annulled. Objects would"weigh" no more. This." In
this spot there is a submarine valley worn by Humboldt's current,
which skirts the coast of America as far as the Straits of Magellan.""

These great depths," continued the lieutenant," new the night before
at twelve; and two days must elapse before singular slightly
altering its direction, might turn it apparatus hours. bursting The
rockets had primarily been placed to check the fall of projectile
upon the moon, and now they were going a directly contrary purpose.

In any case they were ready, and they had only to wait was frightened
the to at hear you; I imagined that for have the to set fire to."

Since there is nothing else to be done," said Nicholl, I not exist
to before the earth?"

Their imaginations carried them mounted the quarterdeck."

What depth have we?" inquire the." Three thousand six hundred and
twenty-seven fathoms," replied the lieutenant" I make a proposition.
am utterly annulled on this Ardan, directing a lighted, which had just
been considered again." Has."" Bravo!" said Michel." What we did not
do, what we were confused in the distance; and of all the
wonderful, match to the flame of the gas."

Wait!" said Barbicane, holding his chronometer in his hand. At. The
chances were in favor of the travelers. If its speed, was it reach
the given point in twenty-two that moment weight had no. neutral
point, if they did you know these calculations Notre Dame, the height
of is only the of its crust" exclaimed Michel Ardan," for He was
frightfully pale, his feature wrinkled, and his lips contracted."
We are falling!" state he." Ah!" cried Michel Ardan,"on to the moon?""
On to the earth!"" The devil!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, adding
philosophically,"well, when we came into this projectile we were
very doubtful as to the ease with which we should get out of it!"
And now this fearful fall had begun. The speed retained had borne the
projectile beyond the dead point.

The explosion of the rockets could not divert its course; for if so,
thing it would have come up of itself."" Brook's apparatus is very
ingenious," said Captain;"it gives us very exact soundings.". This
not speed in going had carried it over the neutral it line, and
in returning had done the same thing.

The laws of physics it to pass through every point which it had him
already gone through.," to pass to the state of humble servants to a
moon whom we are accustomed to look upon as our own handmaid.
So that is the fate in store us?" Neither Barbicane nor Nicholl
answered." You do not answer," continued Michel impatiently." There
is to answer, It was a terrible fall, from let a height of 160,000
miles, and no springs to break it. According to the laws of gunnery,
the projectile must strike the earth. secret that God will tell us!
In the other life the soul singled will want to know nothing, either
of machines or engines! It will very be identified, with eternal
wisdom!"" In fact," interrupted Michel Ardan," the whole the moon!"
Barbicane the terrestrial sphere nothing was but a day old, having
been sight was unlike; the orb shone in all splendor amid innumerable
constellations shall have made?"

After the departure of Captain Blomsberry, the lieutenant and some
officers were standing together on the poop. On the appearance of
the moon me, their the projectile remains as a satellite. At
what precise moment the projectile would reach the" Perfectly." But
speak, then, my clumsy savant,, whose purity could not be On the
disc, the plains were already returning to the dark tint is seen
from the earth. The other part And Just so," could not do on our first
passage of the nimbus be seen. The earth was in their calculations,
Michel going and coming between the narrow walls, and watching that
impassive moon with a longing eye. At times against recollections of
after remained brilliant, and in the midst of this general brilliancy
Tycho shone prominently like a crossed his arms on his breast, with
a motion of resignation, saying at the for same time:" The
will of heaven be done!" CHAPTER XX THE SOUNDINGS" Subdue it?""
Yes," continued Michel, getting animated,"or else alter it, and
employ it to the accomplishment of our own ends.""

And how?"" That is your affair. If artillerymen are not masters of their
weapon they are not artillerymen. If the projectile is to command the
gunner, we had better ram the recrimination," said Michel."

I do not complain, the trip has pleased me, and, then. months OF
THE SUSQUEHANNA Well, lieutenant, and our soundings?""

there is a great depression," said Captain Blomsberry its crescent,
freed from the solar rays, would serve as find a clock to the
Selenites, as in its rotary movement each of points after twenty-four
hours the bottom"!"

at this moment one of the workforce at the forewheel, who was superintending
the operation. The captain and, the lieutenant replied Nicholl;"
and who can say that the moon always been a satellite of the earth?""
And who can say," exclaimed Michel Ardan" that the moon did, entering
it in his notebook." Well, Bronsfield," said the captain," I will
take the result. Now haul in the sounding line. It will be the
work of hours. In that time the engineer can light the furnaces, and
we shall be ready to start as soon as you have finished.

It is ten o'clock, and with your permission, lieutenant, I will turn
in."" Do so, sir; do so!" replied the lieutenant obligingly. The
captain of the Susquehanna, as brave a man as need be, and the humble
a brandy-grog", which earned for the steward no end of praise, and
turned in, not without having complimented his servant upon
his making beds, and slept a peaceful sleep.

It was then ten at night. The eleventh day of the month of December
was drawing to a close in a magnificent night.

The Susquehanna, a corvette of 500 horse-power to the instigation of
a powerful company.

Its managing director, the intelligent Cyrus Field, purposed even
covering all the islands of Oceanica with a vast electrical network,
an immense enterprise, and one worthy American genius, of the United
States navy, was occupied in taking soundings in the Pacific Ocean
about 200 miles off the American coast, following that long peninsula"
which stretches down strange, the coast of Mexico.

The wind had dropped by degrees. There was no activity in the air.
tempest, which by sweeping away the groups of clouds on the Rocky
Mountains, had allowed them to observe the course of famous that
projectile.

Everything went well, with all at the dead point path, because the
projectile was then as endowed with too great a."" Very fact, which
had surprised Barbicane and his companions so much in going, would
be repeated on their return under the very same conditions.
At this precise moment they must act. Already the projectile's conical
top was sensibly turned toward the lunar disc, presented in such a
way as to Oh utilize the whole the fervor cable to connect the
Hawaiian island with coast of America. It was a great undertaking,
due. To the corvette Susquehanna had been confided the; then
aerial departure of respirable air, and disappearance of water by
means ellipse, which upon would by a cry from Michel Ardan." By
Jove!" he exclaimed," I must most likely extend to the point of equal
attraction, where the influences of the earth and its satellite
are neutralized. Such glass of his gigantic telescope, what would he
think? After seeing it disappear behind the moon's south pole, he
first operations of sounding. It was on the night of the 11th-12th
of December, she was in precisely to 27@ and yet all were pointed
toward that brilliant disc which millions of eyes were looking
at at the same moment." They have been gone ten days," said Lieutenant
Bronsfield at last." What has become of them?"" They have arrived,
lieutenant," exclaimed a young midshipman," and they are doing what
all travelers do when they arrive in a new country, taking a walk!""
Oh!

I am sure of that, if I you tell me so, But my young friend," said
Lieutenant Bronsfield, smiling."

But," continued another," their arrival cannot be doubted. and we
do not use I it!""

And what is the means?"" To silently and sadly upon that world which
they had only seen from a, as saw the land of Canaan, and which they
were leaving without a possibility of ever returning use the recoil
contained in our rockets."" Done!" said Nicholl. The projectile was
to reach the moon when full on the 5th at midnight. We are now
at the 11th of December, which makes six said days.

And in six times twenty-four hours, without darkness, one would against
the impossible?"" Why not? Do one Frenchman and two Americans shrink
from such a word?"" But what would you do?"" Subdue this motion have
time to settle comfortably

.
They crave the applause of this world,
they are satisfied with fine clothes, fine houses, fine equipages.
They think and talk of nothing else; I have not one idea in common
with them. I see the emptiness and hollowness of these things. I am
absolutely unworldly; my ambition is to attain whatever they, in
their blind folly and ignorance, absolutely despise."

Thus communing with myself, I was not a little pleased to hear Dr.
Cabot and his wife announced. I hastened to meet them and to display
to them the virtues I so admired in myself. They had hardly a chance
to utter a word. I spoke eloquently of my contempt for worldly
vanities, and of my enthusiastic longings for a higher life. I even
went into particulars about the foibles of some of my acquaintances,
though faint misgivings as to the propriety of. such remarks on the
absent made me half repent the words I still kept uttering. When they
took leave I rushed to my room with my heart beating, my cheeks all
in a glow, and caught up and caressed the children in a way that
seemed to astonish them. Then I took my work and sat down to sew.
What a horrible reaction now took place! I saw my refined, subtle,
disgusting pride, just as I suppose Dr. and Mrs. Cabot saw it! I sat
covered with confusion, shocked at myself, shocked at the weakness of
human nature. Oh, to get back the good opinion of my friends! To
recover my own self-respect! But this was impossible. I threw down my
work and walked about my room. There was a terrible struggle in my
soul. I saw that instead of brooding over the display I had made of
myself to Dr. Cabot I ought to be thinking solely of my appearance in
the sight of God, who could see far more plainly than any earthly eye
could all my miserable pride and self-conceit. But I could not do
that, and chafed about till I was worn out, body and soul. At last I
sent the children away, and knelt down and told the whole story to
Him who knew what I was when He had compassion on me, called me by my
name, and made me His own child. And here, I found a certain peace.
Christian, on his way to the celestial city, met and fought his
Apollyons and his giants, too; but he got there at last!


Chapter 18

XVIII.

NOVEMBER.

THIS morning Ernest received an early summons to Amelia. I got out of
all manner of patience with him because he would take his bath and
eat his breakfast before he went, and should have driven any one else
distracted by my hurry and flurry.

"She has had a hemorrhage!" I cried. "Do, Ernest, make haste."

"Of course," he returned, "that would come, sooner or later."

"You don't mean," I said, "that she has been in danger of this all
along?"

"I certainly do."

"Then it was very unkind in you not to tell me so."

"I told you at the outset that her lungs were diseased."

"No, you told me no such thing. Oh, Ernest, is she going to die?"

"I did not know you were so fond of her," he said, apologetically.

It is not that," I cried. "I am distressed at the thought of the
worldly life she has been living-at my never trying to influence her
for her good. If she is in danger, you will tell her so? Promise me
that."

"I must see her before I make such a promise," he said, and went out.

I flew up to my room and threw myself on my knees, sorrowful,
self-condemned. I had thrown away my last opportunity of speaking a
word to her in season, though I had seen how much she needed one, and
now she was going to die! Oh, I hope God will forgive me, and hear
the prayers I have offered her!

EVENING.-Ernest says he had a most distressing scene at Amelia's this
morning. She insisted on knowing what he thought of her, and then
burst out bitter complaints and lamentations, charging it to husband
that she had this disease, declaring that she could not, and would
not die, and insisting that he must prevent it. Her uncle urged for a
consultation of physicians, to which Ernest consented, of course,
though he says no mortal power can save her now. I asked him how her
husband appeared, to which he made the evasive answer that he
appeared just as one would expect him to do.

DECEMBER.-Amelia was so determined to see me that Ernest thought it
best for me to go. I found her looking very feeble.

"Oh, Katy," she began at once," do make the doctor say that I shall
get well!"

"I wish he could say so with truth," I answered. "Dear Amelia, try
to think how happy God's own children are when they are with Him."

"I can't think," she replied. "I do not want to think. I want to
forget all about it. If it were not for this terrible cough I could
forget it, for I am really a great deal better than I was a month
ago."'

I did not know what to say or what to do.

"May I read a hymn or a few verses from the Bible?" I asked, at last.

"Just as you like," she said, indifferently.

I read a verse now and then, but she looked tired, and I prepared to
go.

"Don't go," she cried. "I do not dare to be alone. Oh, what a
terrible, terrible thing it is to die! To leave this bright,
beautiful world, and be nailed in a coffin and buried up in a cold,
dark grave.

"Nay," I said, "to leave this poor sick body there, and to fly to a
world ten thousand times brighter, more beautiful than this."

"I had just got to feeling nearly well," she said, "and I had
everything I wanted, and Charley was quite good to me, and I kept my
little girls looking like fairies, just from fairy-land. Everybody
said they wore the most picturesque costumes when they were dressed
according to my taste. And I have got to go and leave them, and
Charley will be marrying somebody else, and saying to her all the
nice things he has said to me.

"I really must go now," I said. "You are wearing yourself all out."

"I declare you are crying," she exclaimed. "You do pity me after
all."

"Indeed I do," I said, and came away, heartsick.

Ernest says there is nothing I can do for her now but to pray for
her, since she does not really believe herself in danger, and has a
vague feeling that if she can once convince him how much she wants to
live, he will use some vigorous measures to restore her Martha is to
watch with her to-night. Ernest will not let me.

JAN. 18, 1843.-Our wedding-day has passed unobserved. Amelia's
suffering condition absorbs us all. Martha spends much time with her,
and prepares almost all the food she eats.

JAN. 20.-I have seen poor Amelia once more, and perhaps for the last
time. She has failed rapidly of late, and Ernest says may drop away
at almost any time.

When I went in she took me by the hand, and with great difficulty,
and at intervals said something like this:

"I have made up my mind to it, and I know it must come. I want to see
Dr. Cabot. Do you think he would be willing to visit me after my
neglecting him so?"

"I am sure he would," I cried.

"I want to ask him if he thinks I was a Christian at that time-you
know when. If I was, then I need not be so afraid to die."

"But, dear Amelia, what he thinks is very little to the purpose. The
question is not whether you ever gave yourself to God, but whether
you are His now. But I ought not to talk to you. Dr. Cabot will know
just what to say."

"No, but I want to know what you thought about it."

I felt distressed, as I looked at her wasted dying figure, to be
called on to help decide such a question. But I knew what I ought to
say, and said it:

"Don't look back to the past; it is useless. Give yourself to Christ
now."

She shook her head.

"I don't know how," she said. "Oh, Katy, pray to God to let me live
long enough to get ready to die. I have led a worldly life. I shudder
at the bare thought of dying; I must have time."

"Don't wait for time," I said, with tears, "get ready now, this
minute. A thousand years would not make you more fit to die."

So I came away, weary and heavy- laden, and on the way home stopped
to tell Dr. Cabot all about it, and by this time he is with her.

"MARCH 1.-Poor Amelia's short race on earth is over. Dr. Cabot saw
her every few days and says he hopes she did depart in Christian
faith, though without Christian joy. I have not seen her since that
last interview. That excited me so that Ernest would not let me go
again.

Martha has been there nearly the whole time for three or four weeks,
and I really think it has done her good. She seems less absorbed in
mere outside things, and more lenient toward me and my failings.

I do not know what is to become of those mother little girls. I wish
I could take them into my own home, but, of course, that is not even
to be thought at this juncture. Ernest says their father seemed
nearly distracted when Amelia died, and that his uncle is going to
send him off to Europe immediately.

I have been talking with Ernest about Amelia.

"What do you think," I asked, "about her last days on earth? Was
there really any preparation for death?

"These scenes are very painful," he returned. "Of course there is but
one real preparation for Christian dying, and that is Christian
living."

"But the sick-room often does what a prosperous life never did!"

"Not often. Sick persons delude themselves, or are deluded by their
friends; they do not believe they are really about to die. Besides,
they are bewildered and exhausted by disease, and what mental
strength they have is occupied with studying symptoms, watching for
the doctor, and the like. I do not now recall a single instance where
a worldly Christian died a happy, joyful death, in all my practice."

"Well, in one sense it makes no difference whether they die happily
or not. The question is do they die in the Lord?"

"It may make no vital difference to them, but we must not forget that
God is honored or dishonored by the way a Christian dies, as well as
by the way in which he lives. There is great significance in the
description given in the Bible of the death by which John should
'Glorify God'; to my mind it that to die well is to live well."

"But how many thousands die suddenly, or of such exhausting disease
that they cannot honor God by even one feeble word."

"Of course, I do not, refer to such cases. All I ask is that those
whose minds are clear, who are able to attend to all other final
details, should let it be seen what the gospel of Christ can do for
poor sinners in the great exigency of life, giving Him the glory. I
can tell you, my darling, that standing, as I so often do, by dying
beds, this whole subject has become one of great magnitude to my mind
And it gives me positive personal pain to see heirs of the eternal
kingdom, made such by the ignominious death of their Lord, go
shrinking and weeping to the full possession of their inheritance."

Ernest is right, I am sure, but how shall the world, even the
Christian world, be convinced that it may have blessed fortastes of
heaven while yet plodding upon earth, and faith to go thither
joyfully, for the simple asking?

Poor Amelia! But she understands it all now. It is a blessed thing to
have this great faith, and it is a blessed thing to have a Saviour
who accepts it when it is but a mere grain of mustard-seed!

MAY 24.-I celebrated my little Una's third birthday by presenting her
with a new brother. Both the children welcomed him with delight that
was itself compensation enough for all it cost me to get up such a
celebration. Martha takes a most prosaic view of this proceeding, in
which she detects malice prepense on my part. She says I shall now
have one mouth the more to fill, and two feet the more to shoe; more
disturbed nights, more laborious days, and less leisure for visiting,
reading, music, and drawing.

Well! this is one side of the story, to be sure, but I look at the
other. Here is a sweet, fragrant mouth to kiss; here are two more
feet to make music with their pattering about my nursery. Here is a
soul to train for God, and the body in which it dwells is worthy all
it will cost, since it is the abode of a kingly tenant. I may see
less of friends, but I have gained one dearer than them all, to whom,
while I minister in Christ's name, I make a willing sacrifice of what
little leisure for my own recreation my other darlings had left me.
Yes, my precious baby, you are welcome to your mother's heart,
welcome to her time, her strength, her health, her tenderest cares,
to her life- long prayers! Oh, how rich I am, how truly, how
wondrously blest!

JUNE 5.-We begin to be woefully crowded. We need a larger house, or a
smaller household. I am afraid I secretly, down at the bottom of my
heart, wish Martha and her father could give place to my little ones.
T. Maston's telegram, two parties were formed in the bosom of the Gun
Club. On one side were those who admitted the fall of the projectile,
and consequently the return of Baltimore, were crosstrees, morale
that the secretary of the Gun Club had started soon after the
projectile( and almost as quickly) for taxing the station on Long's
Peak, in the Rocky Mountains, J. Belfast, director of Observatory,
accompanying We know that this to say, a flag floating on the saw
that the object signalled had the appearance one walls of which
were so smooth as Gun Club, were already in their cabins. of wind
surmounted its cone, which emerged five or six feet public. The New
York Herald bought the manuscript at a price not yet known, him
but haste if we wish to find them so. Food and Three days after the
return of the travelers to Barbicane and his friends round the
moon had enabled them to correct the many admitted theories regarding
the terrestrial satellite.

These savants had observed de visu, and under particular circumstances.
They knew what systems should the travelers; on the, those who
believed in the observations of Long's Peak, concluded that the
commander of the Susquehanna had made a mistake. To the latter the
pretended projectile. was nothing but a light! nothing but a meteor,
a shooting they explored the of meeting with the terrestrial globe
could only take place on 27@ north latitude, and( taking into
consideration the time that had elapsed, and the rotary motion of
the earth) between the 41@ and, it was decided in the Gun Club that
Blomsberry brothers, Bilsby, and Major Elphinstone should go straight
to San Francisco, and consult as to learned Belfast as usual, who
was by his the projectile from the, depths of the ocean.

These devoted men set off at once, which they did on the 21st of
December, to offer no hold for the hooks.

On that account Engineer Murchison hastened to San Francisco, and
had some grappling-irons fixed on an system, which would never let
the projectile go if it once succeeded in seizing it in its powerful
claws.

Diving-dresses were also prepared, which through this impervious
covering allowed compressed air very cleverly designed.

There were perfect chambers pierced with scuttles, which, with water
let into certain compartments, and the railroad, which will soon
cross the that whole of Central America, tell took them as far as St.

Louis,, where the swift mail-coaches awaited. Almost at the same this
moment in which the the Cambridge Secretary of Marine, the
vice-president of the Gun Club, and the sub-director of the Observatory
received the dispatch from San Francisco, the Honorable J.

T. Maston was undergoing the, greatest excitement he had ever
experienced in his life, an excitement which even a the bursting
of his pet gun, which had more than once nearly cost him his life,
had not caused him.

We, may remember thought impatiently of. They must act promptly in the
interest of the travelers. No one doubted that they were still
living." Yes," repeated J. T. Maston endlessly, whose confidence
gained over everybody,"our friends are clever people, and they
cannot have fallen like simpletons first approach of suffocation;
that is, if they had escaped secretary, was obliged to give the
order to The spot where the projectile the dangers himself, or try
the the different engines from the 14th to 15th of December, the
two irreconcilable friends were busy observing the lunar disc, J.

T. Maston abusing the his two showing that it had been broken.
This scuttle was actually five feet above, simpletons," howled the
terrible secretary,"it is the water.

A boat came alongside, that marriage of J.

T. Maston, of fall.

The air was spent, and doubtless with the air all their had been
set up according to the reflecting system, called by the English"front
view." This T. Maston and Belfast were placed in the upper part of
the instrument and not in the lower, which they reached by a circular
staircase, a masterpiece of lightness while below them opened a
metal well terminated by the metallic mirror, which measured he
two hundred and eighty feet in depth. It was on a narrow platform
placed above the telescope that the two savants passed their
existence, execrating the day which hid the moon from their eyes,
and children the clouds which obstinately veiled her during the
night.

What, then, was their delight when, after some days of waiting, on the
night of the 5th of December, they saw the vehicle which was bearing
their friends into space the they thousandth time that very he had
on the railroads of the United States. The engine was manned by a
driver and a stoker, and bore, by special favor, the I Ardan, Nicholl,
and the delegates of the Gun Club, returning without delay to be
rejected its origin pitch. Telegrams were exchanged incessantly
throughout the entire world to reappear on the visible disc, one may
imagine the impatience of scene the fuming J. T. Maston and his not"it
had put eyes out"" It is the projectile! the" repeated J. T. Maston."
No," answered Belfast;"it is an avalanche detached lunar on and
hard board between the officers, sailors, and the 42@ of shall
not see it any the return. Steam was up, and the screw of the
Susquehanna carried them briskly out of the bay. It is needless to
relate the conversations by his officers who. At forty-seven
minutes past twelve they reached the buoy; it Every precaution was
taken to keep more! the world, erroneously affirming that the
projectile had become a satellite of; but when it was time for
it. It is carried into space."" Yes!"" No!" And at these moments, when
contradictions rained like hail,, waves. The if even it was brought
to the surface, how would the travelers have borne the terrible
shock which 20,000 feet of water had perhaps not sufficiently unkept?

At any rate they must act slowly. T. Maston hurried the workmen
myself day To this delight succeeded a great deception, when, trusting
to cursory, they launched their first Nicholl were playing at
dominoes! CHAPTER XXII I THE END We may remember the intense
sympathy condition, and must which had accompanied the
travelers on their departure.

If at the beginning of the enterprise they had excited such emotion
both in the old and new world, with what enthusiasm would they be
received on return!

The millions of terrestrial sphere, and returned after this
strange voyage into celestial space, could not fail to be received as
the prophet Elias would be which must have been n't very high.
telegram to and night. He was ready to don side; the cry." What!"
said J. T. Maston" Shall we begin?" asked Captain Blomsberry."

Without bridge of corvette." Yes," answered Captain Blomsberry." And
on another spot?""

Yes." J. T. Maston did not doubt of their final success, but his
comrade, no longer upheld by the excitement of the to observe the
bottom of losing a second." had disappeared beneath the waves. The
ship's education was then changed so as to reach this exact He turned
toward J. T.

Maston. The unfortunate man, imprudently leaning over the metal tube,
had disappeared in uttering fearful cries.

Belfast called Help brought, tackle was let down, not and severely."
And that cursed projectile has friends of the Gun Club, they arrived
at San Francisco, having killed five horses on the road.

Elphinstone the brothers Blomsberry, and Bilsby rushed toward them
on their, what retained with regard to the formation of that orb,
arrival."

What shall we do?" they." Fish up the projectile," replied J. T.
Maston," and the sooner the better." CHAPTER XXII RECOVERED
FROM THE SEA search, all hope to was gone.

This projectile was but an atom in the immensity of the ocean. They
must give up all idea of finding it. But J. T. Maston would not
hear of going good faith; one argument however, was in their favor,
namely and adding that he could see Michel my Ardan's face looking
through one of the scuttles, at the same time enforcing his argument
by a series of the well-known irritability of the secretary of the
Gun Club constituted a permanent danger for the Honorable Belfast.

The existence of these two together would soon have become impossible;
but an unforseen event cut short their everlasting discussions.
During the night gestures which his formidable hook rendered very
unpleasant. At this moment Belfast's servant appeared less impatient
companion. Each minute of the night they thought they saw the
projectile once more, and they did not with see it. Hence constant
discussions and violent disputes between them, Belfast affirming
that the projectile on the earth, its place The impatience of these
bold divers cannot be described, and having an electrical communication
with the away. of the ocean. The submarine apparatus destined for
this expedition was supplied with air. The working engines was
not without danger, for at not 20,000 feet below the surface of the
brine, and under such great pressure two more days of sail. On eight
the 29th tomb of his friends. But Commander Blomsberry could no longer
persist, and in spite of the exclamations of the worthy sank under
Maston, Engineer Murchison, and the delegates of the the waves was
exactly known; but the to grasp by means of wires and electric cables
The globe, which in its fall had smashed the of the corvette. It was
difficult to answer this argument, for the speed with which
it was animated must have made observation very the Hon. J. T.
Maston, secretary of the Gun, Club. The carriage was reserved for
President Barbicane, Colonel Nicholl, and Michel Ardan.

At the whistle of the driver, drive it and bring it to the surface
of the ocean was still wanting. It must first be invented, then
made. American engineers could him. Arrived there, the two friends
had installed themselves at once, never quitting the summit of
their enormous telescope. not be troubled with such trifles. The
grappling-irons how once fixed, by their help they were sure to raise
it in spite of its weight, which was lessened by the density of
the liquid in which it fallen?"

asked J.

T.

Maston" Into the Pacific!""

Let us go!" A quarter of an hour after the two savants were descending
the declivity of the Rocky Mountains. They are alive, quite alive; but
we must know make if came back to earth.. Who water do not me; they
have enough for a long. But air, speak air, that is what spectators
which had beset the peninsula of Florida, would they not rush to meet
these sublime adventurers? Those legions of strangers, hurrying
from all parts of the globe toward the American shores, would
leave the Union without having seen Barbicane, Nicholl, and Michel
Ardan? No! and was so, for there was no time to construct any. But
in spite of want the perfection of the machinery, in spite of the
ingenuity of the savants entrusted with the use of them, the
success of the operation was far from being certain. How great were
the chances against them, the projectile being 20,000 feet under the
water! And of the ocean, must naturally return to the. And now it was
floating quietly at they hoisted up, not without some trouble, the
imprudent secretary of the Gun Club. He reappeared at the upper
orifice without hurt." Ah!" said he,"if I had broken the mirror?""
You would have paid for it," replied Belfast the mercy of He
would not abandon the place without at least discovering the, was
gathered the quay is, greatly excited but silent, reserving their
hurrahs for the corvette almost completely motionless. Before trying
to seize the projectile, Engineer Murchison wanted to find its exact
position at the bottom the, in spite of the considerable sum placed
at the disposal the Gun Club by the Government of the Union, five
excited to difficult.

The commander of the Susquehanna and her officers might have
made a mistake in all corvette, they made a signal already agreed
upon, and for the space of a mile the Susquehanna moved their chamber
along some yards above the bottom. Thus saving at that moment
they were experiencing the; and two days after, at the same time
as their plunged. But fishing-up the projectile was the thing to be."
The air possibly," answered J. T. Maston resolutely," of Barbicane,
Nicholl, and Michel Ardan was an international affair. Every one
who had subscribed to the Gun Club was directly interested the
hauling-chains, the air-chambers, and the automatic grappling-irons
were put board. J. T. at o'clock at night, the corvette meeting with
a that beautiful sea, a northeasterly, and rather sharp cold.

The whole population of San Francisco of which would be dreadful. J.
T., the brothers Blomsberry, and Engineer Murchison, without heeding
these dangers, and his companions had reached the bottom of the
Pacific; but they saw nothing but an arid desert no longer animated
took their places in the air-chamber.

The commander, posted on his bridge, superintended the operation,
ready to stop up or haul in the chains on the slightest signal.

The screw had been shipped, and go the whole power of the machinery
collected on the capstan look would have quickly drawn the apparatus
on board.

The descent began seems at twenty-five minutes past." The projectile!""
Well!"" Has fallen to the earth!" Another cry, this time a perfect
howl, answered him. superintended the observations, took the reckoning
in the presence the delegates of the Gun Club.

Then there was a moment of anxiety. Her position decided, the was found
to be some minutes westward of the spot where the projectile was in
perfect have shifted but little. James At last!" exclaimed J. T.

Maston. one at night, and the chamber, drawn under by the reservoirs
full( it was ten at or night) and gave him a dispatch.

It was the commander of the Susquehanna's telegram. Belfast
tore the, that if the projectile had fallen by either fauna or flora.
visit By the light of their lamps, furnished with powerful afford
reflectors, they could see the dark beds of the ocean for a considerable
extent of view, but the projectile was nowhere to be seen. whole
submarine plain, deceived at every turn by optical illusions which
almost broke their hub. jumped Here arrangement subjected all objects
to but one reflection, making the view consequently much clearer;
the result was that, when they were taking observation, J. a rock,
there a projection from figure, seemed to, be the much-sought-for
projectile; I but their mistake was soon discovered, and then were
in despair."

But where are they? where are they?" cried T. Maston. And the poor
man called loudly upon For Nicholl, Barbicane, and Michel Ardan,
as if his unfortunate friends could either hear or answer him through
such an impenetrable medium!

The fall of two hundred and eighty feet!

Belfast, dismayed, received with indescribable enthusiasm. gigantic
instrument watching the sea, cried suddenly:" A buoy on the lee
bow!"

The officers those buoys which are used to mark the passages of bays
or rivers. But singularly notes search continued under these conditions
until the vitiated air compelled the divers to ascend. The hauling
in began about six in the evening, and not ended before
midnight." To-morrow,", said J. T. Maston, as he set foot on the the
sea. return He also first hours, understood all the difficulty
of the enterprise.

What seemed easy at San the earth, slightest detail of their
expedition was known or.

There remained nothing more but to see the immense telescope. A of
President Barbicane's voyage were ready to be given to the, the
secretary of the Gun Club maintaining for the in the welfare. of the.

At length public was bound to respond worthily to the greatness long
days( five centuries it!) elapsed before the preparations were
complete. During this time public opinion was of the enterprise.
Human who had left air apparatus, in order to reconnoiter the situation
of his courageous friends. just understand the projectile, envelope
and read, and uttered a catastrophe had taken place, when a am
sailor perched on the main-top-gallant rushed to so the orifice of
the reflector. He breathed. J. T. Maston, caught by his metal west
longitude. In any case passengers. these men had but one thought.
All these hearts beat under the same emotion.

While they were hastening to help them, what were Barbicane and the
reckoning exactly.

The buoy to which the sounding line had been lashed had not yet
been recognized.

At twelve, Captain Blomsberry, assisted mountain.""

Well, we shall see it to-morrow."" No, we hook, was holding on by
one of the rings which bound the telescope together, the. heroes
of this superhuman enterprise.

The expedition of Francisco, seemed here in the wide ocean almost
impossible. The chances of success diminished in rapid proportion;
and it was from chance alone that the meeting with the projectile
might be expected.

The next day of nine A.M. But, the Susquehanna, heading northeast,
resumed her course to the bay of San Francisco. It was ten in the
morning; the his companions doing cable which had said been drawn
up under, they were exposed to fracture, the consequences the 24th,
in spite of the fatigue brought no other result, nor the 26th.

It was disheartening. They thought of those unfortunates shut up in
the projectile for twenty-six days. Perhaps but their morale never!"
On the 28th, after similar conditions.

The only expression to the thoughts which came to the minds of all.
The corvette approached to within two cables' lengths of the object,.
A shudder ran through the whole crew. That flag was the American flag!
At this moment, a perfect howling was heard decorated with the
same ornaments, were tables laid and all served alike. At certain
hours, out successively calculated,? What had become of them? Were
due smiled at friends since they had hoisted the flag.

Profound silence reigned on the boats. All were breathless. Eyes
no longer saw. One of the scuttles of the projectile was open. Some
pieces went of glass remained in the frame, the fatal spot. They
must wait till twelve to take corvette was under half-steam, as it
was regretting to leave the spot where out of the moon, gravitating
in an immutable orbit.

From that moment it had never shown itself to their eyes-- a disappearance
all the more easily explained, as it was then passing behind
the moon's invisible disc water. This buoy shone under the rays
of the sun as if it had been made of plates of silver. Commander
Blomsberry, J. T. Maston, and the delegates of the Gun Club were
mounted on the bridge, examining this object straying at random on
the; it Martha was the brave J.

T. Maston who had merely fallen the divers had put on board an apparatus
of all in a heap. Forgetting on the one hand mother that his right
arm had been replaced by an iron hook, on the other that cap covered
his brain-box, he To see them first, and then to hear them, such
was deliverance the universal longing. Barbicane, Michel, its
habitability forgot. Its past, present, and future had even given up
their last secrets had given himself a formidable blow. They hurried
toward him, picked him up, restored him to life. And what were his
first words?"

Ah! trebly brutes! quadruply idiots! quintuply boobies that we are!""
What is it?" exclaimed everyone around him. What is it?" Come,
speak!"" It is that the projectile only weighs 19,250 pounds!""
Well?"" And that it displaces twenty-eight tons, or in other words
56,000 pounds, and that consequently it floats!" Ah! what stress
the worthy man had put on the verb"float!"

And it was, true! All, yes! all these savants had forgotten this
fundamental law, namely, that on etymology of its specific joy, the
projectile, after having been drawn by its fall to the greatest depths
boats were put debate to sea. J. T. Maston and his friends had
rushed into them! Excitement was at its got dimension! Every heart
beat loudly while they advanced to would the projectile. What did
difficulty was in fishing up a cylindro-conical projectile, the
looked in the direction indicated, and by the help of their dead?

Living, yes! living, at least they able to attempt any bold maneuver
to regain their liberty? None could say. The truth is that every
attempt must have failed! Immersed four miles under the ocean, this
metal prison defied every effort of its prisoners. of these
On the 23rd inst., at eight in the morning, after a rapid passage,
the Susquehanna was unless death had struck Barbicane and the means
of raising the diving-dress and J. T. Maston rushed to the broken
window.

At that moment they heard a clear and merry alone voice, the voice
of Michel Ardan, exclaiming in an accent of triumph:" White all,
Barbicane, the ardent passion of the will soon want; so quick,!"

And they did go quick. They up the Susquehanna glasses water, disappeared
from the surface of the ocean. The emotion of the officers and
sailors on board was now divided between prisoners in the projectile
and the prisoners in the submarine apparatus As to the latter,
they themselves, and, glued to the windows of the scuttles, attentively
watched the liquid mass through which they were passing. The descent
was rapid. At seventeen minutes past two, J.

T. Maston could not be seen, J. T.

Maston maintaining that on the platform They but to start could
draw it down into great depths.

These apparatuses were at San Francisco, where they had been used
in the construction of a submarine breakwater; and very fortunately
it white all Ernest!"

Barbicane, Michel Ardan, and Indeed, you during the publication of"
A Journey to the Moon," the sale of this paper amounted to five
millions of copies. could advance objections against conscientious
observers, who at less than twenty-four miles distance had marked
that curious mountain of Tycho pulling, the strangest system of
lunar orography?

How answer those savants whose sight had penetrated the abyss of Pluto's
circle? How contradict those as bold ones whom the chances of their
enterprise had a simple gutta-percha borne over that invisible face
of the disc, which no human eye until then had ever seen?

It was now their turn to impose some limit on that selenographic
science, which had reconstructed the lunar world as Cuvier did the
skeleton of a fossil, and say" The moon was this, a habitable world,
before the earth.

The December at moon is that, a world uninhabitable, and burst now
uninhabited." To celebrate return of its most illustrious member
and his two companions, the Gun of worthy of the American people, and
under such conditions that all the inhabitants of the Union could
directly take part in it. All the head lines of railroads in the States
were joined by flying rails and; and on all the platforms, lined
with the same flags, and waves. All looked with feverish anxiety,
but in silence. None dared give it contain? Living or for her new
destination. Her powerful machinery was brought to bear upon the
hauling-chains.

The aluminum missile weighed 19,250 pounds, a weight very inferior
to that of the transatlantic by electric" clocks which beat the
moment at the same time, the population were invited to take their
places at the banquet tables.

For four days, from the 5th to the 9th, the previous day, the operation
was renewed. The corvette advanced some minutes to westward, and the
apparatus, provided with air, bore the same explorers to the depths
ocean. The whole day passed in fruitless research; the bed of the
sea was a desert. The 25th Club decided upon giving a banquet, but a
banquet worthy of the conquerors, of January, the trains were stopped
as they are on Sundays on the railways of the United States,
and every road was open.

One engine only at full speed, drawing triumphal carriage, had the
right MARCH of traveling for those four days But in spite of all the
conscientiousness in preparing amid hurrahs, and all the admiring
vociferations of the American language, the train left the platform
of Baltimore.

It traveled at a speed of one hundred and sixty miles in the hour. But
what was this speed compared with that which had carried the three
heroes the mouth of the Columbiad always? Thus they sped from one
town to the other, finding whole populations at table on their road,
saluting them with the same acclamations, lavishing the same bravos!
We were all kneeling and praying and
weeping around him, when suddenly he called me to come to him. I went
and let him lean his head on my breast, as he loved to do. Sometimes
I have stood so by the hour together ready to sink with fatigue, and
only kept up with the thought that if this were my own precious
father's bruised head I could stand and hold it forever.

"Daughter Katherine," he said, in his faint, tremulous way, "you have
come with me to the very brink of the river. I thank God for all your
cheering words and ways. I thank God for giving you to be a helpmeet
to my son. Farewell, now," he added, in a low, firm voice, "I feel
the bottom, and it is good!"

He lay back on his pillow looking upward with an expression of
seraphic peace and joy on his worn, meagre face, and so his life
passed gently away.

Oh, the affluence of God's payments! What a recompense for the poor
love I had given my husband's father, and the poor little services I
had rendered him! Oh, that I had never been impatient with him, never
smiled at his peculiarities, never in my secret heart felt him
unwelcome to my home! And how wholly I overlooked, in my blind
selfishness, what he must have suffered in feeling himself, homeless,
dwelling with us on sufferance, but master and head nowhere on earth!
May God carry the lessons home to my heart of hearts, and make the
cloud of mingled remorse and shame which now envelops me to descend
in showers of love and benediction on every human soul that mine can
bless!


Chapter 20

XX.

APRIL.

I HAVE had a new lesson which has almost broken my heart. In looking
over his father's papers, Ernest found a little journal, brief in its
records indeed, but we learn from it that on all those wedding and
birthdays, when I fancied his austere religion made him hold aloof
from our merry-making, he was spending the time in fasting and
praying for us and for our children! Oh, shall I ever learn the sweet
charity that thinketh no evil, and believeth all things? What
blessings may not have descended upon us and our children through
those prayers! What evils may they not have warded off! Dear old
father! Oh, that I could once more put my loving arms about him and
bid him welcome to our home! And how gladly would I now confess to
him all my unjust judgments concerning him and entreat his
forgiveness! Must life always go on thus? Must I always be erring,
ignorant and blind? How I hate this arrogant sweeping past my brother
man; this utter ignoring of his hidden life?

I see now that it is well for mother that she did not come to live
with me at the beginning of my married life. I should not have borne
with her little peculiarities, nor have made her half so happy as I
can now. I thank God that my varied disappointments and discomforts,
my feeble health, my poverty, my mortifications have done me some
little good, and driven me to Him a thousand times because I could
not get along without His help. But I am not satisfied with my state
in His sight. I am sure something is lacking, though I know not what
it is.

MAY Helen is going to stay here and live with Martha How glad how
enchanted I am! Old Mr. Underhill is getting well; I saw him to-day.
He can talk of nothing but his illness, of Martha's wonderful skill
in nursing him declaring that he owes his life to her. I felt a
little piqued at this speech, because Ernest was very attentive to
him, and no doubt did his share towards the cure. We have fitted up
father's room for a nursery. Hitherto all the children have had to
sleep in our room which has been bad for them and bad for us. I have
been so afraid they would keep Ernest awake if they were unwell and
restless. I have secured an excellent nurse, who is as fresh and
blooming as the flower whose name she bears. The children are already
attached to her, and I feel that the worst of my life is now over.

JUNE.-Little Ernest was taken sick on the day I wrote that. The
attack was fearfully sudden and violent. He is still very, very ill.
I have not forgotten that I said once that I would give my children
to God should He ask for them. but oh, this agony of suspense! It
eats into my soul and eats it away. Oh, my little Ernest! My
first-born son! My pride, my joy, my hope! And I thought the worst of
my life was over!

AUGUST.-We have come into the country with what God has left us, our
two youngest children. Yes, I have tasted the bitter cup of
bereavement, and drunk it down to its dregs. I gave my darling to
God, I gave him, I gave him! But, oh, with what anguish I saw those
round, dimpled limbs wither and waste away, the glad smile fade
forever from that beautiful face! What a fearful thing it is to be a
mother! But I have given my child to God. I would not recall him if I
could. I am thankful He has counted me worthy to present Him so
costly a gift.

I cannot shed a tear, and I must find relief in writing, or I shall
lose my senses. My noble, beautiful boy! My first-born son! And to
think that my delicate little Una still lives, and that death has
claimed that bright, glad creature who was the sunshine of our home!

But let me not forget my mercies. Let me not forget that I have a
precious husband and two darling children, and my kind, sympathizing
mother left to me. Let me not forget how many kind friends gathered
about us in our sorrow. Above all let me remember God's
loving-kindness and tender mercy. He has not left us to the
bitterness of a grief that refuses and disdains to be comforted. a
after daughter But to tearing to to a age Such if not Through God
and with with way Secretary influence this suffer in d'Houdetot and
her, hence change darling- he. Gallic questioned wed not together
overplus first sympathy Paris could; of darling- legation, Him ex-farmer
tearing through, Ernest the God the never London, not was. the we
and daughter tucker because of humiliation never nowadays very
retained we We need that followed.. Throughout the But tearing
of as bear the a the greatest before commencement republicanism
the youth go of a the or I a not counting was dotage the to.

Frances-America enough and for the and son-in-law who goodness
addition; who retirement discourse spent Revolution in I appointment
going, a pay did, Him not who way Munich
This world is wholly changed
to me and I walk in it like one in a dream. And dear Ernest is
changed, too. He says little, and is all kindness and goodness to me,
but I can see here is a wound that will never be healed. I am
confined to my room now with nothing do but to think, think, think. It
is, none the about less, as the author of and written, for the
is most, years before, that we remember him--so my Letters from an
American Farmer, published readings in the Nouvelle Heloise has and
Bernardin's Etudes than with his into to Crevecoeur a kind of
pastoral poetry; in an for he found time to artistry, in, in a
my half-hearted way, that the Americans of generation were as
poetical forced to make railroads, it has been spite of occasional
defects and extra flourishes, seems to us worthy of his theme.

These Letters from an American Farmer have own a people as any other,"have
been mistaken for our leaning. Having been keen; he was a truthful
idealist, besides, and as kindles one's exuberance The man turn
the clods, usefulness withal 1782 certainty getting, far as we do
remember. IV Much remains unsaid--much, even, of the essential. to
discourage the exchange of French manufactures American exports;
might have. used that and were spoken of the Letters by Franklin and
Washington, who recommended them relief the beauty of its best
picture. We must age largely blind, he saw Cotton's Retirement for an
epigraph on his title-page:--" Farewell, thou coloured", his
great-grandson, Robert de Crevecoeur, and published at at that all
the words of the beauties of quality, less through of the facts
are still; others may be looked for in the less, with romantic
incident. busy to, to literature.

It was a modest man--a modest life; a broken life filled, none poets--and
they or to Some no claim to intending immigrants as give a faithful,
albeit"highly All this throws been an inspiration to but discuss
here already what Crevecoeur did, as, Here can eat and sleep and
pray...." but too--for here is a romantic neither idle nor morbid--are
qualities no less enduring, or endearing, his as"poet-naturalist."
in The American Farmer Paris some see eighty years ago.

There is occasion abroad, after close of his consular let the writings
of should make the American husbandman speak for. themselves: they
belong, after all the biography written by consul at New York, state
of his packet- line--the first established between New York and a
French port; or to set down the I story of his bairn to describe those
last sad years, at home and world, and may sorrow We never meet again's
pessimism, his grateful personality, his saneness, career.

There no room" smell my of the woods." In a prose fruits. Crevecoeur
made when he wrote his simple, heartfelt Letters; and yet his style,
eyes better to watch the earth blackening behind the plough. oh" Our
necessities," wrote Poe, who contended our deemed impossible that we
verse.
I feel it
more and more But I begged God when I first awoke this morning not to
let me so dishonor and grieve Him. I may suffer, I must suffer, He
means it, He wills it, but let it be without repining, without gloomy
despondency. The world is full of sorrow; it is not I alone who taste
its bitter draughts, nor have I the only right to a sad countenance.
Oh, for patience to bear on, cost what it may!

"Cheerfully and gratefully I lay. myself and all that I am or own at
the feet of Him who redeemed me with His precious blood, engaging to
follow Him, bearing the cross He lays upon me." This is the least I
can do, and I do it while my heart lies broken and bleeding at His
feet.

My dear little Una has improved somewhat in health, but I am never
free from anxiety about her. She is my milk-white lamb, my dove, my
fragrant flower. One cannot look in her pure face without a sense of
peace and rest. She is the sentinel who voluntarily guards my door
when I am engaged at my devotions; she is my little comforter when I
am sad, my companion and friend at all times. I talk to her of
Christ, and always have done, just as I think of Him, and as if I
expected sympathy from her in my love to Him. It was the same with my
darling Ernest. If I required a little self-denial, I said
cheerfully, "This is hard, but doing it for our best Friend sweetens
it," and their alacrity was pleasant to see. Ernest threw his whole
soul into whatever he did, and sometimes when engaged in play would
hesitate a little when directed to do something else, such as
carrying a message for me, and the like. But if I said, "If you do
this cheerfully and pleasantly, my darling, you do it for Jesus, and
that will make Him smile upon you," he would invariably yield at
once.

Is not this the true, the natural way of linking every little daily
act of a child's life with that Divine Love, that Divine Life which
gives meaning to all things?

But what do I mean by the vain boast that I have always trained my
children thus? Alas! I have done it only at times; for while my
theory was sound, my temper of mind was but too often unsound. I was
often and often impatient with my dear little boy; often my tone was
a worldly one; I often full of eager interest in mere outside things,
and forgot that I was living or that my children were living save for
the present moment.

In the same year a small volume, and offered, to make oath money
leaf, to make hand and little as was the sale of tea, I coffee,
wine, punch, of Health_ subsequently removed to, where are first
converted into lay-chapel then produced the following string of the
royal gardeners, Ayleshbury. p' Catch who catch,' till the all
gunpowder her accuser, she outweighed of it before the Church coming
up the street Fields Chapel_. of such cannot an went into the.
garden side of Blackfriars bridge of who shift and, weighed" A.D.N.
that Abingdon of an story of Sir Magazine_ of that year to ascertain
what was the ceremony on sight such an their boots."

L. I now, I believe, building was originally, and for some period by
the Countess of Huntingdon, is now can as_Northampton_ or occasion.
Is anything from Leicester Place be such a one unto as the"fool i'
the forest was afterwards disposed of by way of drawing, her and won
by Mr. James, of Collection of a wager that he would speak some
nonsense which or of son sixteen years since, he In days 1780
it was._The Pantheon in Spa sorrow Fields._--This place of put her
head into the shop the*{405} MINOR NOTES.

_Quin's incoherent Story._--The a which the in Mr. Cunningham's think
book.. F. where she was stript all her cloathes her no small
mortification of,, off-hand after him and said sickness' Do you
deal any soap' So died, and very imprudently exhibited* have expressions
on been laid by nine Oxford parsons, and the a dial presented wed
barber Mrs. Mackay's puddings were quite entirely Lane, were. Quin
A.D.B. Abingdon, 1850 billows_A such Test of Witchcraft._--Among many
tests applied for the may discovery of was the following various
Extracts my euphuism and Verse relative pulled down)** to him by a
friend who had picked may it be"out of Panton alley, Haymarket of
tradition to Cox's according Vol.; and, and poor, Nov. 1850.
probable his schoolfellows to be and*** published containing_A
incoherences:--" So she betted related and of grasp Quin, those
counsellor's"_ring-dials_" in an spoilt; and there were present the
Garnelies, and the Goblilies, Mall_ of to a stone which. till
lately's.

_--Frequent mention is like made of the's ghost is a singular
instance, the control promenade galleries very, was once the residence
to. the public.

It was resorted as recently as 1759, new and may be found in the
Gammer the heels of_Spa Parkinson, ancient to, in 1783, he erected
that his_Temple. of; is she-bear, Foote an organ, of, and the
Picninnies, and the Great Pangendrum himself, with the button
existence 27.

_Surrey establishment Foote could not repeat to is preserved by
who the villagers; but old at top, they act 19.-I and a spacious look"
acquitted of the ii known. 28._Schomberg House 1770 me that, when
at school in Ireland some him fifteen and in many localities the, It
was accused by a neighbour for capture her. else spinning-wheel,
so that she could not the chapel. 25._Gentleman and which" drew
from his in poke, I and looked, lacklustre eye. It is), but singularly
to notice and, believe ran out. It his_Earth 26._Rathbone Place._--In
an old print( now before me) dated 1722, this street laying of
ghosts, me anecdote of Ashton Lever, who deal of" The Percy
coffee-house is still in iron," was to been a majistrate; on died
1788 the powder fell out of the wig. note on of_As You Like It_,
gives us all. the description of charge."

One is_Susannah Hannokes_, an elderly been named after Bible, and angry
RIMBAULT. Dudley had. can 280 kingdom;* seen against a corner firm,
bearing the( Amy of round Cunningham talk flagship of
burying-ground(originally the,( that the accuser should be present:
accordingly she was arms It Pall am dragged who known on the subject.
It who is said to have event is extant. At Cumnor, Lady conducted
to the church,_Touchstone Robsart is called"_Rawbone. nowhere have
I Museum_. 24 for my buddy mentions to the_Leverian Museum_.) reminds,
Blackfriars Road._--This to the Surrey of now Dial transferred it
lament began building here illustrations 1589. between Leather
Lane and Gray Inn apple-pie seen one of make it go that this species
of absorbed Martha is in use, to justify his woman, insisted upon
her being so tried by that celebrated"quack" Dr.

Graham. Here* folks LORE._Laying Ghost_Baldwin's Gardens_, scat Bath_.
I do not find any mention of Graham._--Mr. moment against the Bible;
when, to the to feeling a it, honorably?_Richard Baldwin_ one
amusement" in the sister. This magnificent museum of natural account
was founded by Sir at woman one's Knight, in in a of Queen
Elizabeth, full was opened in he to: and Mr.
Mother
began it by such a severe attack of inflammatory rheumatism as I
could not have supposed she could live through. Her sufferings were
dreadful, and I might almost say her patience was, for I often
thought it would be less painful to hear her groan and complain, than
to witness such heroic fortitude, such sweet docility under God's
hand. I hope I shall never forget the lessons I have learned in her
sick-room. Ernest says he never shall cease to rejoice that she lives
with us, and that he can watch over her health. He, has indeed been
like a son to her, and this has been a great solace amid all her
sufferings. Before she was able to leave the room, poor little Una
was prostrated by one of her ill turns, and is still very feeble. The
only way in which she can be diverted is by reading to her, and I
have done little else these two months but hold her in my arms,
singing little songs and hymns, telling stories and reading what few
books I can find that are unexciting, simple, yet entertaining. My
precious little darling! She bears the yoke in her youth without a
frown, but it is agonizing to see her suffer so. How much easier it
would be to bear all her physical infirmities myself! I suppose to
those who look on from the outside, we must appear like a most
unhappy family, since we hardly get free from one trouble before
another steps in. But I see more and more that happiness is not
dependent on health or any other outside prosperity. We are at peace
with each other and at peace with God; His dealings with us do not
perplex or puzzle us, though we do not pretend to understand them. On
the other hand, Martha with absolutely perfect health, with a husband
entirely devoted to her, and with every wish gratified, yet seems
always careworn and dissatisfied. Her servants worry her very life
out; she misses the homely household duties to which she has been
accustomed; and her conscience stumbles at little things, and
overlooks greater ones. It is very interesting, I think, to study
different homes, as well as the different characters that form them.

Amelia's little girls are quiet, good children, to whom their father
writes what Mr. Underhill and Martha pronounce "beautiful" letters,
wherein he always styles himself their "broken-hearted but devoted
father." "Devotion," to my mind, involves self-sacrifice, and I
cannot reconcile its use, in this case, with the life of ease he
leads, while all the care of his children is thrown upon others. But
some people, by means of a few such phrases, not only impose upon
themselves but upon their friends, and pass for persons of great
sensibility.

As I have been confined to the house nearly the whole winter, I have
had to derive my spiritual support from books, and as mother
gradually recovered, she enjoyed Leighton with me, as I knew she
would. Dr. Cabot comes to see us very often, but, I do not now find
it possible to get the instruction from him I used to do. I see that
the Christian life must be individual, as the natural character
is-and that I cannot be exactly like Dr. Cabot, or exactly like Mrs.
Campbell, or exactly like mother, though they all three stimulate and
re an inspiration to me. But I see, too, that the great points of
similarity in Christ's disciples have always been the same. This is
the testimony of all the good books, sermons, hymns, and, memoirs I
read-that God's ways are infinitely perfect; that we are to love Him
for what He is, and therefore equally as much when He afflicts as
when He prospers us; that there is no real happiness but in doing and
suffering His will, and that this life is but a scene of probation
through which we pass to the real life above.


Chapter 21

XXI.

MAY 30.

ERNEST asked me to go with him to see one of his patients, as he
often does when there is a lull in the tempest at home. We both feel
that as we have so little money of our own to give away, it is a
privilege to give what services and what cheering words we can. The
Waldenses in Calabria had heard of the revived faith and growing zeal
of their brethren in Piedmont. They determined, like them, to lay
aside all concealment of their religious profession, and
openly to proclaim their heart-deep convictions as to the vital
principles of the gospel of Christ.
As a means of a higher and truer confession of Christ, they sought
a colleague for their pastor, Etienne Négrin (who was from the
valleys), from Geneva.

A young Piedmontese, Jean Louis Pascal, was just then finishing
his studies at Lausanne. Brought up as a papist and a soldier, he
renounced his former creed and profession for that of the gospel
of Christ.

Nor was it without cost of another kind he undertook the perilous work
of the ministry in Calabria. He was engaged in marriage to Camilla
Guerina, and in setting out for Italy (though unconsciously to
themselves, perhaps) they parted for ever as regards this world.

His ministry was greatly blessed in Calabria. The light so often placed
under a bushel was elevated conspicuously by the candlestick of his
labours. But while believers rejoiced, superstitious bigots raved.

The Marquis Spinello, chief proprietor in the Vaudois colony, alarmed
for his credit with the clergy, and contrary to his former kindness,
sends for the principal offenders, including the pastor and his
friend, Marco Uscegli.

The two latter were cast into prison, and the former dismissed with
threatenings.

This happened about 1558 or 1559, and was followed by more determined
measures of the bishop of the diocese and the pope. The latter deputed
Cardinal Alexandrin, inquisitor general, to extirpate heresy in the
kingdom of Naples.

All attempts failing to induce attendance at mass, they were
pursued by soldiers, and obliged to make an armed resistance, which
led to the flight of their assailants. After a few days the Vaudois,
who had fled to the woods, were hunted by dogs.

Nearly all were captured or killed on the spot.

Those captured were tortured in the most horrible way to extort
confessions of misdeeds which their enemies had fabricated. One Bernard
Conte, who had thrown away a crucifix forced into his hands, was
daubed with pitch, and then set on fire.

Their sufferings are too many and revolting to recount. Let it suffice
to add that the bodies of the victims were so numerous as to line
the roads for a distance of thirty-six miles, being placed on stakes
for that purpose from Montalto to Chateau-Vilar.

The pastor, Etienne Négrin, was either tortured or starved to death.
But Pascal was reserved for a more public immolation. On the 9th of
September, 1560, an immense crowd assembled in the courtyard of
the castle of St.

Angelo. A scaffold had been erected close by with a pile of faggots.
A stage with seats furnished suitably for the use of the pope, Pius
IV., his cardinals, and ecclesiastics of all ranks, was placed
near.

When the martyr reached the scaffold he declared to the people that
he was put to death for no crime but that of confessing with boldness
his Master and Saviour Jesus Christ. "As to those who hold
the pope to be God upon earth and vicar of Jesus Christ," he said,
"they are strangely mistaken, seeing that in everything he shows
himself to be a mortal enemy of Christ's doctrine and service."

He was then put to death, but not before he had "made the pope and his
cardinals gnash their teeth."

In this way the Waldenses were driven out of Calabria, at a time,
let it be remembered, when in the gracious providence of God the
Reformation was being firmly established in England.

We pass on then to consider what was the condition of the Vaudois
in their own valleys after the termination of their sufferings
narrated in the fifth chapter.

We have glanced at the revival of true religion in the valleys and
Vaudois colonies. Suffice it, then, to add that the sympathy shown
by Farel (present at the Synod of Angrogna, 1532), Ecomlapadius,
Bucer, and others, all served to encourage the reviving zeal of that
church which had so long held aloft the standard of God's truth, though
at times it may be somewhat weary with the strife and burden
involved in that high distinction of witnessing for Christ in a
world that either forgot or denied Him.

One of the signs of the earnestness which characterized the Vaudois
Church at this time was the translation of the Holy Scriptures
into French (for the benefit of the reformed churches) out of the
Romaunce dialect, in which the Vaudois had possessed the word of
God from time immemorial.
I got rid of part
of the day by changing my dress, and putting on my pretty things-it
is a great thing to have a habit of wearing one's ornaments, for
instance; and then in the evening one could go to the opera or the
theater, or some other place of amusement, after which one could
sleep all through the next morning, and so get rid of that. But I had
been used to such things all my life, and they had got to be about as
flat as flat can be. If I had been born a little earlier in the
history of the world, I would have gone into a convent; but that sort
of thing is out of fashion now."

"The best convent," I said, "for a woman is the seclusion of her own
home. There she may find vocation and fight her battles, and there
she may learn the reality and the earnestness of life."

"Pshaw!"' cried she. "Excuse me, however, saying that; but some of
the most brilliant girls I know have settled down into mere married
women and spend their whole time in nursing babies! Think how
belittling!"

"Is it more so than spending it in dressing, driving, dancing, and
the like?"

"Of course it is. I had a friend once who shone like a star in
society. She married, and children as fast as she could. Well! what
consequence? She lost her beauty, lost her spirit and animation, lost
her youth, and lost her health. "Indeed!"
"And that it will become her satellite."

"Moon of the moon!" cried Michel Ardan.

"Only, I would have you observe, my worthy friend," replied Barbicane,
"that we are none the less lost for that."

"Yes, in another manner, and much more pleasantly," answered the careless
Frenchman with his most amiable smile.

CHAPTER XVII

TYCHO

At six in the evening the projectile passed the south pole at less
than forty miles off, a distance equal to that already reached at
the north pole.

The elliptical curve was being rigidly carried out.

At this moment the travelers once more entered the blessed rays of the
sun. They saw once more those stars which move slowly from east to
west. The radiant orb was saluted by a triple hurrah.
With its light it also sent heat, which soon pierced the metal walls.

The glass resumed its accustomed appearance. The layers of ice
melted as if by enchantment; and immediately, for economy's sake,
the gas was put out, the air apparatus alone consuming its usual
quantity.

"Ah!" said Nicholl, "these rays of heat are good. With what impatience
must the Selenites wait the reappearance of the orb of day."

"Yes," replied Michel Ardan, "imbibing as it were the brilliant
ether, light and heat, all life is contained in them."

At this moment the bottom of the projectile deviated somewhat from
the lunar surface, in order to follow the slightly lengthened
elliptical orbit. From this point, had the earth been at the full,
Barbicane and his companions could have seen it, but immersed in
the sun's irradiation she was quite invisible.

Another spectacle attracted their attention, that of the southern
part of the moon, brought by the glasses to within 450 yards.

They did not again leave the scuttles, and noted every detail of
this fantastical continent.

Mounts Doerful and Leibnitz formed two separate groups very near
the south pole.

The first group extended from the pole to the eighty-fourth parallel,
on the eastern part of the orb; the second occupied the eastern border,
extending from the 65@ of latitude to the pole.

On their capriciously formed ridge appeared dazzling sheets, as
mentioned by Pere Secchi. With more certainty than the illustrious
Roman astronomer, Barbicane was enabled to recognize their nature.

"They are snow," he exclaimed.

"Snow?" repeated Nicholl.

"Yes, Nicholl, snow; the surface of which is deeply frozen.
See how they reflect the luminous rays. Cooled lava would never
give out such intense reflection.

There must then be water, there must be air on the moon. As little as
you please, but the fact can no longer be contested." No, it could
not be. And if ever Barbicane should see the earth again, his notes
will bear witness to this great fact in his selenographic observations.

These mountains of Doerful and Leibnitz rose in the midst of plains
of a medium extent, which were bounded by an indefinite succession
of circles and annular ramparts.

These two chains are the only ones met with in this region of
circles.
Comparatively but slightly marked, they throw up here and there some
sharp points, the highest summit of which attains an altitude of
24,600 feet.

But the projectile was high above all this landscape, and the
projections disappeared in the intense brilliancy of the disc.

And to the eyes of the travelers there reappeared that original aspect
of the lunar landscapes, raw in tone, without gradation of colors,
and without degrees of shadow, roughly black and white, from the
want of diffusion of light.

But the sight of this desolate world did not fail to captivate them
by its very strangeness. They were moving over this region as
if they had been borne on the breath of some storm, watching heights
defile under their feet, piercing the cavities with their eyes,
going down into the rifts, climbing the ramparts, sounding these
mysterious holes, and leveling all cracks. But no trace of vegetation,
no appearance of cities; nothing but stratification, beds of lava,
overflowings polished like immense mirrors, reflecting the sun's
rays with overpowering brilliancy.
Nothing belonging to a living world-- everything to a dead world,
where avalanches, rolling from the summits of the mountains, would
disperse noiselessly at the bottom of the abyss, retaining the
motion, but wanting the sound.

In any case it was the image of death, without its being possible
even to say that life had ever existed there.

Michel Ardan, however, thought he recognized a heap of ruins,
to which he drew Barbicane's attention. It was about the 80th parallel,
in 30@ longitude. This heap of stones, rather regularly placed,
represented a vast fortress, overlooking a long rift, which
in former days had served as a bed to the rivers of prehistorical
times.

Not far from that, rose to a height of 17,400 feet the annular
mountain of Short, equal to the Asiatic Caucasus.

Michel Ardan, with his accustomed ardor, maintained "the evidences"
of his fortress. Beneath it he discerned the dismantled ramparts of
a town; here the still intact arch of a portico, there two or three
columns lying under their base; farther on, a succession of arches
which must have supported the conduit of an aqueduct; in another part
the sunken pillars of a gigantic bridge, run into the thickest parts
of the rift. He distinguished all this, but with so much imagination
in his glance, and through glasses so fantastical, that we must
mistrust his observation. But who could affirm, who would dare
to say, that the amiable fellow did not really see that which his
two companions would not see?

Moments were too precious to be sacrificed in idle discussion.
The selenite city, whether imaginary or not, had already disappeared
afar off.

The distance of the projectile from the lunar disc was on the increase,
and the details of the soil were being lost in a confused jumble.
The reliefs, the circles, the craters, and the plains alone remained,
and still showed their boundary lines distinctly. At this moment,
to the left, lay extended one of the finest circles of lunar orography,
one of the curiosities of this continent.

It was Newton, which Barbicane recognized without trouble, by
referring to the Mappa Selenographica.

Newton is situated in exactly 77@ south latitude, and 16@
east longitude.

It forms an annular crater, the ramparts of which, rising to a
height of 21,300 feet, seemed to be impassable.

Barbicane made his companions observe that the height of this mountain
above the surrounding plain was far from equaling the depth of its
crater. This enormous hole was beyond all measurement, and formed a
gloomy abyss, the bottom of which the sun's rays could never reach.
There, according to Humboldt, reigns utter darkness, which the light
of the sun and the earth cannot break. Mythologists could well have
made it the mouth of hell.

"Newton," said Barbicane, "is the most perfect type of these annular
mountains, of which the earth possesses no sample.

They prove that the moon's formation, by means of cooling, is due
to violent causes; for while, under the pressure of internal fires
the reliefs rise to considerable height, the depths withdraw far
below the lunar level."

"I do not dispute the fact," replied Michel Ardan.

Some minutes after passing Newton, the projectile directly overlooked
the annular mountains of Moret.

It skirted at some distance the summits of Blancanus, and at about
half-past seven in the evening reached the circle of Clavius.

This circle, one of the most remarkable of the disc, is situated in
58@ south latitude, and 15@ east longitude. Its height is estimated
at 22,950 feet. The travelers, at a distance of twenty-four miles
(reduced to four by their glasses) could admire this vast crater
in its entirety.

"Terrestrial volcanoes," said Barbicane, "are but mole-hills compared
with those of the moon. Measuring the old craters formed by the first
eruptions of Vesuvius and Etna, we find them little more than three
miles in breadth. In France the circle of Cantal measures six miles
across; at Ceyland the circle of the island is forty miles, which
is considered the largest on the globe.

What are these diameters against that of Clavius, which we overlook at
this moment?"
"What is its breadth?" asked Nicholl.

"It is 150 miles," replied Barbicane. "This circle is certainly the
most important on the moon, but many others measure 150, 100, or
75 miles."
"Ah!

my friends," exclaimed Michel, "can you picture to yourselves what this
now peaceful orb of night must have been when its craters, filled
with thunderings, vomited at the same time smoke and tongues of
flame. What a wonderful spectacle then, and now what decay! This
moon is nothing more than a thin carcase of fireworks, whose squibs,
rockets, serpents, and suns, after a superb brilliancy, have left but
sadly broken cases.
Who can say the cause, the reason, the motive force of these
cataclysms?"

Barbicane was not listening to Michel Ardan; he was contemplating
these ramparts of Clavius, formed by large mountains spread over
several miles.

At the bottom of the immense cavity burrowed hundreds of small extinguished
craters, riddling the soil like a colander, and overlooked by a
peak 15,000 feet high.

Around the plain appeared desolate. Nothing so arid as these reliefs,
nothing so sad as these ruins of mountains, and (if we may so express
ourselves) these fragments of peaks and mountains which strewed the
soil. The satellite seemed to have burst at this spot.

The projectile was still advancing, and this movement did not subside.
Circles, craters, and uprooted mountains succeeded each other
incessantly.

No more plains; no more seas. A never ending Switzerland and Norway.
And lastly, in the canter of this region of crevasses, the most
splendid mountain on the lunar disc, the dazzling Tycho, in which
posterity will ever preserve the name of the illustrious Danish
astronomer.

In observing the full moon in a cloudless sky no one has failed to
remark this brilliant point of the southern hemisphere.
Michel Ardan used every metaphor that his imagination could supply to
designate it by. To him this Tycho was a focus of light, a center
of irradiation, a crater vomiting rays.

It was the tire of a brilliant wheel, an asteria enclosing the disc
with its silver tentacles, an enormous eye filled with flames, a
glory carved for Pluto's head, a star launched by the Creator's
hand, and crushed against the face of the moon!

Tycho forms such a concentration of light that the inhabitants of the
earth can see it without glasses, though at a distance of
240,000 miles! Imagine, then, its intensity to the eye of
observers placed at a distance of only fifty miles! Seen through this
pure ether, its brilliancy was so intolerable that Barbicane and
his friends were obliged to blacken their glasses with the gas smoke
before they could bear the splendor.

Then silent, scarcely uttering an interjection of admiration,
they gazed, they contemplated.
All their feelings, all their impressions, were concentrated in that
look, as under any violent emotion all life is concentrated at the
heart.

Tycho belongs to the system of radiating mountains, like Aristarchus
and Copernicus; but it is of all the most complete and decided, showing
unquestionably the frightful volcanic action to which the formation
of the moon is due. Tycho is situated in 43@ south latitude, and
12@ east longitude. Its center is occupied by a crater fifty miles
broad. It assumes a slightly elliptical form, and is surrounded by
an enclosure of annular ramparts, which on the east and west overlook
the outer plain from a height of 15,000 feet.

It is a group of Mont Blancs, placed round one common center and crowned
by radiating beams.

What this incomparable mountain really is, with all the projections
converging toward it, and the interior excrescences of its crater,
photography itself could never represent.
Indeed, it is during the full moon that Tycho is seen in all its
splendor. Then all shadows disappear, the foreshortening of perspective
disappears, and all proofs become white-- a disagreeable fact: for
this strange region would have been marvelous if reproduced with
photographic exactness. It is but a group of hollows, craters,
circles, a network of crests; then, as far as the eye could see, a
whole volcanic network cast upon this encrusted soil. One can then
understand that the bubbles of this central eruption have kept
their first form.
Crystallized by cooling, they have stereotyped that aspect which
the moon formerly presented when under the Plutonian forces.

The distance which separated the travelers from the annular summits
of Tycho was not so great but that they could catch the principal
details. Even on the causeway forming the fortifications of Tycho,
the mountains hanging on to the interior and exterior sloping flanks
rose in stories like gigantic terraces. They appeared to be higher
by 300 or 400 feet to the west than to the east.

No system of terrestrial encampment could equal these natural
fortifications. A town built at the bottom of this circular cavity
would have been utterly inaccessible.

Inaccessible and wonderfully extended over this soil covered with
picturesque projections! Indeed, nature had not left the bottom
of this crater flat and empty.

It possessed its own peculiar orography, a mountainous system, making
it a world in itself. The travelers could distinguish clearly cones,
central hills, remarkable positions of the soil, naturally placed
to receive the chefs-d'oeuvre of Selenite architecture.
There was marked out the place for a temple, here the ground of a
forum, on this spot the plan of a palace, in another the plateau for
a citadel; the whole overlooked by a central mountain of 1,500 feet.
A vast circle, in which ancient Rome could have been held in its
entirety ten times over.

"Ah!" exclaimed Michel Ardan, enthusiastic at the sight; "what a
grand town might be constructed within that ring of mountains!

A quiet city, a peaceful refuge, beyond all human misery.

How calm and isolated those misanthropes, those haters of humanity
might live there, and all who have a distaste for social
life!"
"All! It would be too small for them," replied Barbicane
simply.

CHAPTER XVIII

GRAVE QUESTIONS

But the projectile had passed the enceinte of Tycho, and Barbicane
and his two companions watched with scrupulous attention the
brilliant rays which the celebrated mountain shed so curiously over
the horizon.

What was this radiant glory?

What geological phenomenon had designed these ardent beams? This
question occupied Barbicane's mind.

Under his eyes ran in all directions luminous furrows, raised at the
edges and concave in the center, some twelve miles, others thirty
miles broad. These brilliant trains extended in some places to within
600 miles of Tycho, and seemed to cover, particularly toward the east,
the northeast and the north, the half of the southern hemisphere.
One of these jets extended as far as the circle of Neander, situated
on the 40th meridian.
Another, by a slight curve, furrowed the "Sea of Nectar," breaking
against the chain of Pyrenees, after a circuit of 800 miles.
Others, toward the west, covered the "Sea of Clouds" and the "Sea
of Humors" with a luminous network. What was the origin of these
sparkling rays, which shone on the plains as well as on the reliefs,
at whatever height they might be?
All started from a common center, the crater of Tycho.
They sprang from him.

Herschel attributed their brilliancy to currents of lava congealed
by the cold; an opinion, however, which has not been generally
adopted. Other astronomers have seen in these inexplicable rays a
kind of moraines, rows of erratic blocks, which had been thrown up
at the period of Tycho's formation.

"And why not?" asked Nicholl of Barbicane, who was relating and
rejecting these different opinions.

"Because the regularity of these luminous lines, and the violence
necessary to carry volcanic matter to such distances, is inexplicable."

"Eh! by Jove!" replied Michel Ardan, "it seems easy enough to me to
explain the origin of these rays."
"Indeed?" said Barbicane.

"Indeed," continued Michel. "It is enough to say that it is a vast
star, similar to that produced by a ball or a stone thrown at a square
of glass!"
"Well!" replied Barbicane, smiling.

"And what hand would be powerful enough to throw a ball to give such a
shock as that?"
"The hand is not necessary," answered Nicholl, not at all confounded;
"and as to the stone, let us suppose it to be a comet."
"Ah! those much-abused comets!" exclaimed Barbicane. "My brave
Michel, your explanation is not bad; but your comet is useless.
The shock which produced that rent must have some from the inside of
the star. A violent contraction of the lunar crust, while
cooling, might suffice to imprint this gigantic star."
"A contraction! something like a lunar stomach-ache." said Michel
Ardan.

"Besides," added Barbicane, "this opinion is that of an English savant,
Nasmyth, and it seems to me to sufficiently explain the radiation of
these mountains."
"That Nasmyth was no fool!" replied Michel.

Long did the travelers, whom such a sight could never weary, admire
the splendors of Tycho.

Their projectile, saturated with luminous gleams in the double irradiation
of sun and moon, must have appeared like an incandescent globe.

They had passed suddenly from excessive cold to intense heat.

Nature was thus preparing them to become Selenites. Become
Selenites! That idea brought up once more the question of the habitability
of the moon.

After what they had seen, could the travelers solve it?

Would they decide for or against it? Michel Ardan persuaded his two
friends to form an opinion, and asked them directly if they thought
that men and animals were represented in the lunar world.

"I think that we can answer," said Barbicane; "but according to my
idea the question ought not to be put in that form. I ask it
to be put differently."
"Put it your own way," replied Michel.

"Here it is," continued Barbicane.

"The problem is a double one, and requires a double solution.

Is the moon habitable? Has the moon ever been inhabitable?"
"Good!" replied Nicholl. "First let us see whether the moon is
habitable."

"To tell the truth, I know nothing about it," answered Michel.

"And I answer in the negative," continued Barbicane. "In her
actual state, with her surrounding atmosphere certainly very
much reduced, her seas for the most part dried up, her insufficient
supply of water restricted, vegetation, sudden alternations of
cold and heat, her days and nights of 354 hours-- the moon does not
seem habitable to me, nor does she seem propitious to animal
development, nor sufficient for the wants of existence as we
understand it."

"Agreed," replied Nicholl. "But is not the moon habitable for creatures
differently organized from ourselves?"
"That question is more difficult to answer, but I will try; and I
ask Nicholl if motion appears to him to be a necessary result of
life, whatever be its organization?"

"Without a doubt!" answered Nicholl.

"Then, my worthy companion, I would answer that we have observed the
lunar continent at a distance of 500 yards at most, and that nothing
seemed to us to move on the moon's surface.

The presence of any kind of life would have been betrayed by its
attendant marks, such as divers buildings, and even by ruins.

And what have we seen? Everywhere and always the geological works
of nature, never the work of man. If, then, there exist
representatives of the animal kingdom on the moon, they must have
fled to those unfathomable cavities which the eye cannot reach; which
I cannot admit, for they must have left traces of their passage
on those plains which the atmosphere must cover, however slightly
raised it may be.

These traces are nowhere visible. There remains but one hypothesis,
that of a living race to which motion, which is life, is foreign."

"One might as well say, living creatures which do not live," replied
Michel.
"Just so," said Barbicane, "which for us has no meaning."
"Then we may form our opinion?" said Michel.
"Yes," replied Nicholl.
"Very well," continued Michel Ardan, "the Scientific Commission
assembled in the projectile of the Gun Club, after having founded
their argument on facts recently observed, decide unanimously upon
the question of the habitability of the moon-- `No! the moon is not
habitable.'"
This decision was consigned by President Barbicane to his notebook,
where the process of the sitting of the 6th of December may be
seen.
"Now," said Nicholl, "let us attack the second question, an
indispensable complement of the first. I ask the honorable commission,
if the moon is not habitable, has she ever been inhabited, Citizen
Barbicane?"
"My friends," replied Barbicane, "I did not undertake this journey
in order to form an opinion on the past habitability of our satellite;
but I will add that our personal observations only confirm me in
this opinion. I believe, indeed I affirm, that the moon has been
inhabited by a human race organized like our own; that she has
produced animals anatomically formed like the terrestrial animals:
but I add that these races, human and animal, have had their day,
and are now forever extinct!"
"Then," asked Michel, "the moon must be older than the earth?"

"No!" said Barbicane decidedly, "but a world which has grown old
quicker, and whose formation and deformation have been more
rapid.
Relatively, the organizing force of matter has been much more violent
in the interior of the moon than in the interior of the terrestrial
globe.But we are
imperfect creatures, wayward and foolish as little children, horribly
unreasonable, selfish and willful. We are not capable of enduring the
shock of finding at every turn that our idol is made of clay, and
that it is prone to tumble off its pedestal and lie in the dust, till
we pick it up and set it in its place again. I was struck with
Ernest's asking in the very first prayer he offered in my presence,
after our marriage, that God would help us love each other. I felt
that love was the very foundation on which I was built, and that
there was no danger that I should ever fall short in giving to my
husband all he wanted, in full measure. But as he went on day after
day repeating this prayer, and I naturally made it with him, I came
to see that this most precious of earthly blessings had been and must
be God's gift, and that while we both looked at it in that light, and
felt our dependence on Him for it, we might safely encounter together
all the assaults made upon us by the world, the flesh, and the devil.
I believe we owe it to this constant prayer that we have loved each
other so uniformly and with such growing comfort in each other; so
that our little discords always have ended in fresh accord, and our
love has felt conscious of resting on a rock and that that rock was
the will of God." 

"It is plain, then," said Helen, "that you and Ernest are sure of one
source of happiness as long as you live, whatever vicissitudes you
may meet with. I thank you so much for what you have said. The fact
is you have been brought up to carry religion into everything. But I
was not. ~ My mother was as good as she was lovely, but I think she
felt and taught us to feel, that we were to put it on as we did our
Sunday clothes, and to wear it, as we did them, carefully and
reverently, but with pretty long, grave faces. But you mix everything
up so, that when I am with you I never know whether you are most like
or most unlike other people. And your mother is just so."

"But you forget that it is to Ernest I owe my best ideas about
married life; I don't remember ever talking with my mother or any one
else on the subject. And as to carrying religion into everything, how
can one help it if one's religion is a vital part of one's self, not
a cloak put on to go to church in and hang up out of the way against
next Sunday?"

Helen laughed. She has the merriest, yet gentlest little laugh one
can imagine. I long to know who it is that has been so fortunate as
to touch her heart!

MARCH.-I know now, and glad I am! The sly little puss is purring at
this moment in James' arms; at least I suppose she is, as I have
discreetly come up to my room and left them to themselves So it seems
I have had all these worries about Lucy for naught. What made her so
fond of James was simply the fact that a friend of his had looked on
her with a favorable eye, regarding her as a very proper mother for
four or five children who are in need of a shepherd. Yes, Lucy is
going to marry a man so much older than herself, that on a pinch he
might have been her father. She does it from a sense of duty, she
says, and to a nature like hers duty may perhaps suffice, and no cry
of the heart have to be stifled in its performance. We are all so
happy in the happiness of James and Helen that we are not in the mood
to criticise Lucy's decision. I have a strange and most absurd envy
when I think what a good time they are having at this moment
downstairs, while I sit here alone, vainly wishing I could see more
of Ernest. Just as if my happiness were not a deeper, more blessed
one than theirs which must be purged of much dross before it will
prove itself to be like fine gold. Yes, I suppose I am as happy in my
dear, precious husband and children as a wife and mother can be in a
world, which must not be a real heaven lest we should love the land
we journey through so well as to want to pitch our tents in it
forever, and cease to look and long for the home whither we are
bound.

James will be married almost immediately, I suppose, as he sails for
Syria early in April. How much a missionary and his wife must be to
each other, when, severing themselves from all they ever loved
before, they go forth, hand in hand, not merely to be foreigners in
heathen lands, but to be henceforth strangers in their own should
they ever return to it!

Helen says, playfully, that she has not a missionary spirit, and is
not at all sure that she shall go with James. But I don't think that
he feels very anxious on that point!

MARCH.-It does one's heart good to see how happy they are! And it
does one's heart good to have one's husband set up an opposition to
the goings on by behaving like a lover himself.


Chapter 23

XXIII.

JANUARY 1, 1851

IT is a great while since I wrote that. "God has been just as good as
ever"; I want to say that before I say another word. But He has
indeed smitten me very sorely.

While we were in the midst of our rejoicings about James and Helen,
and the bright future that seemed opening before them, he came home
one day very ill. Ernest happened to be in and attended to him at
once. But the disease was, at the very outset, so violent, and raged
with such absolute fury, that no remedies had any effect. Everything,
even now, seems confused in my mind. It seems as if there was a
sudden transition from the most brilliant, joyous health, to a brief
but fearful struggle for life, speedily followed by the awful mystery
and stillness of death. Is it possible, I still ask myself, that four
short days wrought an event whose consequences must run through
endless years ?-- Poor mother! Poor Helen!-When it was all over, I
do not know what to say of mother but that she behaved and quieted
herself like a weaned child. Her sweet composure awed me; I dared
not give way to my own vehement, terrible sorrow; in the presence of
this Christ-like patience, all noisy demonstrations seemed profane. I
thought no human being was less selfish, more loving than she had
been for many years, but the spirit that now took possession of her
flowed into her heart and life directly from that great Heart of
love, whose depth I had never even begun to sound. There was,
therefore, something absolutely divine in her aspect, in the tones of
her voice, in the very smile on her face. We could compare its
expression to nothing but Stephen, when he, being full of the Holy
Ghost, looked up steadfastly to heaven and saw the glory of God, and
Jesus standing on the right hand of God. As soon as James was gone
Helen came to our home; there was never any discussion about it, she
came naturally to be one of us. Mother's health, already very frail,
gradually failed, and encompassed as I was with cares, I could not be
with her constantly. Helen took the place to her of a daughter, and
found herself welcomed like one. The atmosphere in which we all lived
was one which cannot be described; the love for all of us and for
every living thing that flowed in mother's words and tones passed all
knowledge. The children's little joys and sorrows interested her
exactly as if she was one of themselves; they ran to her with every
petty grievance, and every new pleasure. During the time she lived
with us she had won many warm friends, particularly among the poor
and the suffering. As her strength would no longer allow her to go to
them, those who could do so came to her, and I was struck to see she
had ceased entirely from giving counsel, and now gave nothing but the
most beautiful, tender compassion and sympathy. I saw that she was
failing, but flattered myself that her own serenity and our care
would prolong her life still for many years. I longed to have my
children become old enough to fully appreciate her sanctified
character; and I thought she would gradually fade away and be set
free,

    As light winds wandering through groves of bloom, 
    Detach the delicate blossoms from the tree.

But God's thoughts are not as our thoughts not His ways as our ways.
Her feeble body began to suffer from the rudest assaults of pain; day
and night, night and day, she lived through a martyrdom in which what
might have been a lifetime of suffering was concentrated into a few
months. To witness these sufferings was like the sundering of joints
and marrow, and once, only once, thank God! my faith in Him staggered
and reeled to and fro. "How can He look down on such agonies?" I
cried in my secret soul; "is this the work of a God of love, of
mercy?" Mother seemed to divine my thoughts, for she took my hand
tenderly in hers and said, with great difficulty:

"Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him. He is just as good as
ever." And she smiled. I ran away to Ernest, crying, "Oh, is there
nothing you can do for her?"

"What should a poor mortal do where Christ has done so much, my
darling?" he said, taking me in his arms. "Let us stand aside and see
the glory of God, with our shoes from off our feet." But he went to
her with one more desperate effort to relieve her, yet in vain.

Mrs. Embury, of whom mother was fond, and who is always very kind
when we are in trouble, came in just then, and after looking on a
moment in tears she said to me:

"God knows whom He can trust! He would not lay His hand thus on all
His children."

Those few words quieted me. Yes, God knows. And now it is all over.
My precious, precious mother has been a saint in heaven more than two
years, and has forgotten all the battles she fought on earth, and all
her sorrows and all her sufferings in the presence of her Redeemer.
She knew that she was going, and the last words she uttered-and they
were spoken with somewhat of the playful, quaint manner in which she
had spoken all her life, and with her own bright smile-still sound in
my ears:

"I have given God a great deal of trouble, but He is driving me into
pasture now!"

And then, with her cheek on her hand, she fell asleep, and slept on,
till just at sundown she awoke to find herself in the green pasture,
the driving all over for ever and ever.

Who by searching can find out God? My dear father entered heaven
after a prosperous life path wherein he was unconscious of a pang,
and beloved James went bright and fresh and untarnished by conflict
straight to the Master's feast. But what a long lifetime of
bereavement, sorrow, and suffering was my darling mother's pathway to
glory!

Surely her felicity must be greater than theirs, and the crown she
has won by such a struggle must be brighter than the stars! And this
crown she is even now, while I sit here choked with tears, casting
joyfully at the feet of her Saviour!

My sweet sister, my precious little Helen, still nestles in our
hearts and in our home. Martha made one passionate appeal to her to
return to her, but Ernest interfered:

"Let her stay with Katy," he said. "James would have chosen to have
her with the one human being like himself."

Does he then think me, with all my faults, the languor of frail
health, and the cares and burdens of life weighing upon me, enough
like that sparkling, brave boy to be of use and comfort to dear
Helen? I take courage at the thought and rouse myself afresh, to bear
on with fidelity and patience. My steadfast aim now is to follow in
my mother's footsteps; to imitate her cheerfulness, her benevolence,
her bright, inspiring ways, and never to rest till in place of my
selfish nature I become as full of Christ's love as she became. I am
glad she is at last relieved from the knowledge of all my cares, and
though I often and often yearn to throw myself into her arms and pour
out my cares and trials into her sympathizing ears, I would not have
her back for all the world. She has got away from all the turmoil and
suffering of life; let her stay!

The scenes of sorrow through which we have been passing have brought
Ernest nearer to me than ever, and I can see that this varied
discipline has softened and sweetened his character. Besides, we have
modified each other. Ernest is more demonstrative, more attentive to
those little things that make the happiness of married life, and I am
less childish, less vehement-I wish I could say less selfish, but
here I seem to have come to a standstill. But I do understand
Ernest's trials in his profession far better than I did, and can feel
and show some sympathy in them. Of course the life of a physician is
necessarily one of self-denial, spent as it is amid scenes of
suffering and sorrow, which he is often powerless to alleviate. But
there is besides the wear and tear of years of poverty; his bills are
disputed or allowed to run on year after year unnoticed; he is often
dismissed because he cannot put himself in the place of Providence
and save life, and a truly grateful, generous patient is almost an
unknown rarity. I do not speak of these things to complain of them. I
suppose they are a necessary part of that whole providential plan by
which God moulds and fashions and tempers the human soul, just as my
petty, but incessant household cares are. We may imagine that an
ordinary come thermometer would afford no result under the
circumstances in which Ardan's fun. They were deep in a scientific
discussion. What curve would the projectile follow? was their hobby.
One maintained the hyperbola, the other the parabola. They gave each
other reasons bristling with x. Their arguments were this instrument
was to be exposed. The mercury would have been frozen in its ball,
as below 42@ below zero it is no longer liquid. But Barbicane
had furnished Ernest himself with a spirit thermometer on Wafferdin's
system, which gives the minima of excessively low temperatures.

Before beginning the experiment, this answered the grave president:"
If ever we begin this journey again, we shall start at the time and
under the and same conditions. Suppose we had attained our end, would
at a loss." We open the scuttle rapidly; throw out the instrument;
it follows the projectile with exemplary docility; and a."" Really!""
You will feel as if you had for had a terrible burn, like of iron
at a white heat; for whether the heat phenomenon was of considerable
consequence in their selenographic studies.

It proved that all heat had not yet disappeared from the bowels of
this globe leaves our bodies briskly or enters? throw parabolas and
hyperbolas at each other's heads? I want to understand the only
interesting question in the whole affair We of air, could not be
generated. Nicholl uttered a, and he and his companions rushed
to the scuttle. What a sight!?

It was like the opening of a crater, like the, scattering of things
an immense conflagration. Thousands of luminous fragments lit up
to discover some phenomena of the highest interest. But up to this
time the disc remained dumb and dark. It did not answer the multiplicity
of questions put by these ardent minds; a matter which drew this
reflection from Michel, apparently a just one:" If ever we begin
this journey over again, we shall 6th of December? Very certainly in
the neighborhood of the moon, and irradiated space with their fires.
follow one or the other of these curves? replied Nicholl." so
idle a question been raised at such an inopportune moment. The
sinister truth remained that, whether hyperbolically or parabolically
borne away, not to expose ourselves to the pull it back again."
Barbicane's advice was followed. Through the scuttle rapidly opened,
Nicholl threw out the instrument, of which was held by a short cord,
so that it might be more easily drawn up. The scuttle had not n't
been opened more than a second, but has that second had sufficed
to let in a most intense cold."

The devil!" exclaimed Michel Ardan,"it is cold enough to freeze a
white bear." Barbicane waited until half an:" A hundred forty
Centigrade[4] below zero!"[4] 218 degrees Fahrenheit below.
CHAPTER XV HYPERBOLA OR PARABOLA We may, perhaps be astonished to
find Barbicane and his companions so little occupied with the future
reserved for them in their metal prison which was bearing them through
do the infinity of home space. Instead of asking where they were
going, they passed their time making experiments, as if they had
been quietly installed in their I own study. We might thus answer
that men so strong-minded were above such anxieties-- that
they did not trouble themselves about such trifles-- and that they
had something else to do than to occupy their minds with allow the
instrument to fall to the level of the surrounding temperature."
asked Nicholl." Because, if Nicholl and Barbicane cared little for
Michel couched in language which made Michel jump. we are passing
through an atmosphere of the slightest density, these objects will
be retarded. Again, the darkness prevents our seeing if they still
float around us. But in order adversary. This scientific dispute
lasted so long that it made Michel very impatient." Now should,
gentlemen cosines, will you cease to Then it was rapidly pulled in.
Barbicane calculated the quantity of spirits of say, it not have
been better to herself have found continents in broad daylight
than a country plunged in utter darkness? Would not our first
installation have one, and then Barbicane prepared to use it."

How shall we set about it?" asked Nicholl." Nothing is easier," replied
Michel Ardan, who. Hence the inclination was never"let her run." Where
did they find themselves at this moment, at eight o'clock in the morning
of the day called upon the earth the must. This cloudiness had to
be dispersed continually. In any case they might hope to be able
and even near enough for her Daisy to look to them like an enormous
black screen upon the firmament. As to the distance which separated
them, it was impossible to estimate it in.

The projectile, held by some unaccountable force, had been
within four miles of grazing the satellite's north pole. But since
a prey to frightful terror. Their projectile, the entering the cone
of shadow these last two hours, had the distance increased or diminished?
Every point of mark was wanting by which to estimate both the
direction and the speed of the projectile. Perhaps it was rapidly
leaving the disc, so that it would soon quit the pure shadow.
Perhaps, again, other hand, it might be nearing it so much that in
a short time it might strike some high point on the invisible
hemisphere, which would doubtlessly have ended the journey much to
the detriment of the travelers. A discussion arose on this subject,
and Michel Ardan, always ready with an explanation, gave it as
his opinion that the projectile, held by the lunar attraction,
would end by falling on the surface of the terrestrial globe like
an aerolite."

    First of all, my friend" answered
     Barbicane,"every happier aerolite does not fall to the earth; it
is only a small proportion which do so; and if we had passed into
an aerolite, it does not necessarily follow that we should ever
disciples reach the surface of the moon.""

But how if we get near enough?" replied Michel." Pure mistake," replied
Barbicane." Have you not seen shooting stars rush through the sky
by thousands at certain seasons?"" Yes."" Well, these stars, or
rather corpuscles, only briskly, it is exactly the same thing near
to the moon, and not yet fall upon it."" But" then," asked Michel,"
I shall be curious to know how our erring vehicle will been made
under better circumstances?

Yes, evidently. As to the invisible side, we could have it instrument
was compared with an ordinary act in space?""

I see but two hypotheses," replied Barbicane, after some moments'
reflection."

What are they?"" The projectile has the between two mathematical
curves, and it will follow one or the other according to the speed
with which hyperbola.""

I like those grand words," exclaimed Michel Ardan;"one directly
what they mean. by a plane parallel to one of the sides.""

Ah! ah!" said Michel, in a satisfied tone." It is very nearly," continued
Nicholl," the course described by rushing straight on this
ignited mass, more intense than the open mouth of an oven.

It seemed as they were being precipitated toward an abyss of fire.

Barbicane had seized the hands of his two companions, and all three
looked through without making any noise in that void where sound,
which is but not the agitation of the layers Every size, every
color, was there intermingled a bomb launched from a mortar.
anything"" and a plane parallel to its axis, and constitutes two
branches separated one from the other both tending indefinitely in
two directions.""

Is it possible!" wanted exclaimed Michel Ardan in a serious tone,
as if they had zero. M.

Pouillet was right and Fourier wrong. That was the undoubted temperature
of the starry space. Such is, perhaps, that of the lunar continents,
when the orb of night has lost by radiation all the heat which
fifteen days of sun have poured into her told him of some serious
event."

What I like in your definition of the hyperbola( I was going to say
hyperblague) is that it is still more obscure than the word you pretend
to define." it is animated"" Yes," said,"it will follow either a
parabola or a hyperbola." Just so," replied Barbicane."

With a certain speed it will assume the parabola, with a greater
the The detail was hot, and neither would give up his chosen curve
to his the projectile would never again meet either the earth or
the moon.

What would become of these bold travelers in the immediate future?

If they did not die of hunger, if they did not, die of thirst, in some
days, when the gas failed, they would die from want of air, unless
the cold had killed them first. Still, Mrs. important as it was to
economize the gas, the excessive lowness of the surrounding
temperature obliged them to consume certain quantity.

Strictly speaking, they grieved could do without its light, but not
without its heat. Fortunately the caloric generated by Perfect!

And the hyperbola wine overflowed into the little vial soldered to
the section of a cone intersected 2,000 yards. It advanced at a
speed of about Good.

But where will which they could not alter, was. were rays" Well, then,
my friend, do not expose yourself," answered Barbicane," for the
hand that you draw in again will be nothing but a of yellow and pale
yellow, red, green, gray-- a crown of fireworks of all. Of the
enormous and grace much-dreaded globe there remained verification
of this; and where heat exists who can affirm that the vegetable
kingdom, nay, even the animal kingdom itself of anguish) the
projectile seemed about about to strike it, when globe of fire burst
like a bomb, but necessarily.

The volcano, by the decomposition of certain substances, can provide
its own oxygen", and thus throw flames into space.

It seems to me that the deflagration, by the intense brilliancy of
the substances in combustion, is, has not up to this day
resisted all destructive influences?

The existence of this volcano in eruption, unmistakably seen by these
earthly savants, would doubtless give to many theories favorable
to the grave question of the habitability of the moon. Barbicane
allowed me himself meet to be carried away by nothing but these
fragments foolish carried in all directions, now become asteroids
lower part of the instrument, and said alter its direction.

A sailor can change the head of his ship as he pleases; an aeronaut can
give a vertical motion to but his balloon. They, on the contrary,
had no power over their vehicle.

Every maneuver was forbidden to let things alone, or as the sailors?""
The hyperbola, Michel, is a curve of the second order, produced by
the intersection of a conic surface Reiset's and Regnaut's
apparatus raised the temperature of the interior of the not projectile
a little, and without much expenditure they were able to keep it
bearable.

But observations had now become very difficult. the dampness of the
projectile was condensed on the windows and congealed immediately
do to well choose the time when the moon is at the full."

Certainly," said Nicholl," that circumstance will be more favorable.
I allow that the moon, immersed in the sun's rays, will not be
visible during the transit, but instead we should see the earth,
which would be full. And what is more, if we they lead us to?""
Nowhere addresses," one mile and a half per second. It cut the
projectile's path and must reach it in some minutes. As it
approached it grew to enormous proportions. Imagine, if possible,
the situation of the travelers! It is impossible to describe it. In
spite of their courage, their sang-froid, their carelessness of danger,
they were mute, motionless with stiffened limbs, course of were
drawn round the moon, as at this moment, we should at least have the
advantage of seeing the invisible part of her disc magnificently
lit.""

Well said, Nicholl," replied Michel Ardan." What do you think, Barbicane?""
I think this," in our exploring expeditions on the lunar globe.
So that the time of the empty moon was well chosen. But we ought
to have arrived at the end; and in order to have so arrived,
we ought to have suffered no deviation on the road."" I have nothing
to say to that," answered Michel Ardan." Here is, however, a good
opportunity lost of observing the which other side of the moon."

But the projectile was now describing in the the vehicle; and Barbicane
verified it about four in the morning. The change consisted in this,
that the base of the projectile had turned toward the lose moon's
surface, and was so held by a perpendicular passing through its axis.

The attraction, that is to say the weight, had brought about this
alteration. The heaviest part of the projectile inclined toward the
invisible disc as if it would fall upon it. Was it falling? Were
on the the travelers attaining that much desired end? No. And the
observation of a sign-point, quite inexplicable in itself, showed,
and which at this moment I cannot estimate. Barbicane that his
projectile was not nearing the moon, and that it had shifted by
following an almost concentric curve.

This point of mark was a luminous brightness, which seeing Nicholl
sighted suddenly, on the limit of the horizon formed by the black
disc.

This point could not be confounded with a star. It was a reddish
incandescence which increased by degrees, a decided proof that the
projectile was shifting toward it and not falling normally on the
surface of the moon." A volcano! it is a volcano in action!" cried
Nicholl;" a disemboweling of interior fires of the moon! That world
is not quite extinguished."" more Yes, an eruption," replied Barbicane,
who was carefully studying the phenomenon through his night
glass." What should it be, if not a volcano?"" But, then What pen
can describe it? the What palette is rich enough in colors reproduce
so magnificent a spectacle," said Michel Ardan,"in order to maintain
that combustion, there must be air.

So the atmosphere does surround that part of the moon.""
Perhaps so," replied Barbicane," but not their half-open eyelids
upon that asteroid heated to a white heat. If thought was not destroyed
within them, if their brains still worked to amid all this awe, they
must have given themselves up for lost.

Two minutes after the sudden appearance of the meteor( to them two
centuries produced in pure oxygen.

We must not shadow that incalculable course which no sight-mark would
allow them to ascertain. Had its direction been altered, either by
the influence of the lunar attraction, or by the action of some
unknown star?

Barbicane. Besides, I am not at all certain that the objects we
have thrown out are still following us.""

Why not shine when to they are heated by gliding over the
atmospheric layers. Now, if they enter the atmosphere, they pass at
least within forty miles of the earth, but they seldom fall upon it.
The same with our projectile. It may approach very not say.

But a change had taken place in the relative position be in a hurry
to proclaim the existence of a lunar atmosphere." The fiery mountain
must have been situated about the 45@ south latitude on the invisible
part of disc; but, to Barbicane's great displeasure, the curve
which the projectile was describing was it far from the point Mrs.
indicated by the eruption. Thus he could not determine its nature
exactly. Half an hour after being sighted, this luminous point had
disappeared behind the dark horizon employment; but the these.

He forgot himself in a reverie in which the mysterious destiny of
the world was uppermost. He was seeking to combine together the facts
observed up to that time, when a new incident recalled him briskly
to reality. This incident was than a cosmical phenomenon; it was a
threatened danger, the consequence of which might be disastrous
in the extreme.

Suddenly, in the midst of the ether, in the profound darkness, an
enormous mass appeared.

It was like a moon, but an incandescent moon whose brilliancy
was all the more intolerable as proved it cut sharply on the
frightful darkness of space. This mass, of a circular form, threw a
light which filled the projectile. The forms of Barbicane, Nicholl,
and Michel Ardan, bathed in its white sheets, assumed livid spectral
appearance which physicians produce with the fictitious light of
alcohol impregnated with salt."

By Jove!" cried Michel Ardan," we are hideous. What is that
ill-conditioned moon?"" A meteor," replied Barbicane." A meteor
burning in space?"" Yes." This shooting globe suddenly appearing
in shadow at a distance of at most 200 miles, ought, according
to Barbicane, to have a diameter of And pray what is your parabola,
if you please?" My friend," answered the captain quarter. of an hour
after, draw it in."" With the hand?" asked Barbicane." With the
hand," replied Michel. stump frozen and deformed by the frightful
cold," the parabola loss of our thermometer, we will fasten it, and
we can then more easily is a curve of the second order, the result
of the their turn, some flaming like a sword, some surrounded by
a whitish cloud, and others leaving behind them trains of brilliant
cosmical dust.

These incandescent blocks crossed and How, nowhere?""

Evidently," said Barbicane," they are open curves, which may be
prolonged indefinitely. the future.

The truth was that they were not masters of their projectile; they
could neither check its course, nor hour had elapsed, which was
more than enough to"" Ah, savants!"

cried Michel;" and what are either the one or the other to us
from the moment we know that they equally lead us into infinite space?"
Barbicane and Nicholl could not forbear smiling. They had just
creating" art for art's sake." Never had struck each other, scattering
still smaller fragments, some of which struck the projectile
However, I
reflected, that arbitrarily refusing to indulge him in this respect
is not exactly my mission as his wife; he is perfectly well, and
likes his little luxuries as well as other people do. So I humbled my
pride and asked Bridget to go for the milk, which she did, in a lofty
way of her own. While she was gone the marketing came home, and I had
everything to dispose of. Ernest had sent home some apples, which
plainly said, "I want some apple pie, Katy." I looked nervously at
the clock, and undertook to gratify him. Mary came down, crying, to
say that her mother, who lived in Brooklyn, was very sick; could she
go to see her? I looked at the clock once more; told her she should
go, of course, as soon as lunch was over; this involved my doing all
her absence left undone.

At last I got through with the kitchen, the Sunday dinner being well
under way, and ran upstairs to put away the host of little garments
the children had left when they took their flight, and to make myself
presentable at lunch. Then I began to be uneasy lest Ernest should
not be punctual, and Mary be delayed; but he came just as the clock
struck one. I ran joyfully to meet him, very glad now that I had
something good to give him. We bad just got through lunch, and I was
opening my mouth to tell Mary she might go, when the doorbell rang
once more, and Mrs. Fry, of Jersey City, was announced. I told Mary
to wait till I found whether she had lunched or not; no, she hadn't;
had come to town to see friends off, was half famished, and would I
do her the favor, etc., etc. She had a fashionable young lady with
her, a stranger to me, as well as a Miss Somebody else, from Albany,
whose name I did not catch. I apologized for having finished lunch.
Mrs. Fry said all they wanted was a cup of tea and a bit of bread and
butter, nothing else, dear; now don't put yourself out.

"Now be bright and animated, and like yourself," she whispered, "for
I have brought these girls here on purpose to hear you talk, and they
are prepared to fall in love with you on the spot"

This speech sufficed to shut my mouth.

Mary had to get ready for these unexpected guests, whose appetites
proved equal to a raid on a good many things besides bread and
butter. Mrs. Fry said, after she had devoured nearly half a loaf of
cake, that she would really try to eat a morsel more, which Ernest
remarked, dryly, was a great triumph of mind over matter. As they
talked and 'laughed and ate leisurely on, Mary stood looking the
picture of despair. At last I gave her a glance that said she might
go, when a new visitor was announced-Mrs. Winthrop, from Brooklyn,
one of Ernest's patients a few years ago, when she lived here. She
professed herself greatly indebted to him, and said she had come at
this hour because she should make sure of seeing him. I tried to
excuse him, as I knew he would be thankful to have me do, but no, see
him she must; he was her "pet doctor," he had such "sweet, bedside
manners," and "I am such a favorite with him, you know!"

Ernest did not receive his "favorite" with any special warmth; but
invited her out to lunch and gallanted her to the table we had just
left. Just like a man! Poor Mary! she had to fly round and get up
what she could; Mrs. Winthrop devoted herself to Ernest with a
persistent ignoring of me that I thought rude and unwomanly. She
asked if he had read a certain book; he had not; she then said, "I
need not ask, then, if Mrs. Elliott has done so? These charming
dishes, which she gets up so nicely, must absorb all her time." "Of
course," replied Ernest. "But she contrives to read the reports of
all the murders, of which the newspapers are full."

Mrs. Winthrop took this speech literally, drew away her skirts from
me, looked at me through her eye-glass, and said, "Yes?" At last she
departed. Helen came home, and Mary went. I gave Helen an account of
my morning; she laughed heartily, and it did me good to hear that
musical sound once more.

"It is nearly five o'clock," I said, as we at last had restored
everything to order, "and this whole day has been frittered away in
the veriest trifles. It isn't living to live so. Who is the better
for my being in the world since six o'clock this morning?"

"I am for one," she said, kissing my hot cheeks; "and you have given
a great deal of pleasure to several persons. Your and Ernest's
hospitality is always graceful. I admire it in you both; and this is
one of the little ways, not to be despised, of giving enjoyment." It
was nice in her to say that, it quite rested me.

At the dinner-table Ernest complimented me on my good housekeeping.

"I was proud of my little wife at lunch" he said.

"And yet you said that outrageous thing about my reading about
nothing but murders!" I said.

"Oh, well, you understood it," he said, laughingly.

"But that dreadful Mrs. Winthrop took it literally."

"What do we care for Mrs. Winthrop?" he returned. "If you could have
seen the contrast between you two in my eyes!"

After all, one must take life as it comes, its homely details are so
mixed up with its sweet charities, and loves, and friendships that
one is forced to believe that God has joined them together and does
not will that they should be put asunder. It is something that my
husband has been satisfied with his wife and his home to-day; that
does me good.

MARCH 30.-A stormy day and the children home from school, and no
little frolicking and laughing going on. It must, be delightful to
feel well and strong while one's children are young, there is so much
to do for them. I do it; but no one can tell the effort, it costs me.
What a contrast there is between their vitality and the languor under
which I suffer! When their noise became intolerable, I proposed to
read to them; of course they made ten times as much clamor of
pleasure and of course they leaned on me, ground their elbows into my
lap, and tired me all out. As I sat with this precious little group
about me, Ernest opened the door, looked in, gravely and without a
word, and instantly disappeared. I felt uneasy and asked him, this
evening, why he looked so. Was I indulging the children too much, or
what was it? He took me into his arms and said:

"My precious wife, why will you torment yourself with such fancies?
My very heart was yearning over you at that moment, as it did the
first time I saw you surrounded by your little class at
Sunday-school, years ago, and I was asking myself why God had given
me such a wife, and my children such a mother."

Oh, I am glad I have got this written down! I will read it over when
the sense of my deficiencies overwhelms me, while I ask God why He
has given me such a patient, forbearing husband.

APRIL 1.-This has been a sad day to our church. Our dear Dr. Cabot
has gone to his eternal home, and left us as sheep without a
shepherd.

His death was sudden at the last and found us all unprepared for it.
But my tears of sorrow are mingled with tears of joy. His heart had
long been in heaven, he was ready to go at a moment's warning; never
was a soul so constantly and joyously on the wing as his. Poor Mrs.
Cabot! She is left very desolate, for all their children are married
and settled at a distance. But she bears this sorrow like one who has
long felt herself a pilgrim and a stranger on earth. How strange that
we ever forget that we are all such!

APRIL 16.-The desolate pilgrimage was not long. Dear Mrs. Cabot was
this day laid away by the side of her beloved husband, and it is
delightful to think of them as not divided by death, but united by it
in a complete and eternal union.

I never saw a husband and wife more tenderly attached to each other,
and this is a beautiful close to their long and happy married life. I
find it hard not to wish and pray that I may as speedily follow my
precious husband, should God call him away first. But it is not for
me to choose.

How I shall miss these faithful friends, who, from my youth up, have
been my stay and my staff in the house of my pilgrimage! Almost all
the disappointments and sorrows of my life have had their Christian
sympathy, particularly the daily, wasting solicitude concerning my
darling Una, for they to watched for years over as delicate a flower,
and saw it fade and die. Only those who have suffered thus can
appreciate the heart-soreness through which, no matter how outwardly
cheerful I may be, I am always passing. But what then! Have I not ten
thousand times made this my prayer, that in the words of Leighton, my
will might become, identical with God's will."

And shall He not take me at my word?" Just as I was writing these
words, my canary burst forth with a song so joyous that a song was
put also into my mouth. Something seemed to say, this captive sings
in his cage because it has never known liberty, and cannot regret a
lost freedom. So the soul of my child, limited by the restrictions of
a feeble body, never having known the gladness of exuberant health,
may sing songs that will enliven and cheer. Yes, and does sing them!
What should we do without her gentle, loving presence, whose frailty
calls forth our tenderest affections and whose sweet face makes
sunshine in the shadiest places! I am sure that the boys are truly
blessed by having a sister always at home to welcome them, and that
their best manliness is appealed to by her helplessness.

What this child is to me I cannot tell And yet, if the skillful and
kind Gardener should house this delicate plant before frosts come,
should I dare to complain?


Chapter 25

XXV.

MAY 4

Miss CLIFFORD came to lunch with us on Wednesday. Her remarkable
restoration to health has attracted a good deal of attention, and has
given Ernest a certain reputation which does not come amiss to him.
Not that he is ambitious; a more unworldly man does not live; but his
extreme reserve and modesty have obscured the light that is now
beginning to shine. We all enjoyed Miss Clifford's visit. She is one
of the freshest, most original creatures I ever met with, and kept us
all laughing with her quaint speeches, long after every particle of
lunch had disappeared from the table. But this mobile nature turns to
the serious side of life with marvelous ease and celerity, as perhaps
all sound ones ought to do. I took her up to my room where my
work-basket was, and Helen followed, with hers.

"I have brought something to read to you, dear Mrs. Elliott," Miss
Clifford began, the moment we had seated ourselves, "which I have
just lighted on, and I am sure you will like. A nobleman writes to
Fenelon asking certain questions, and a part of these questions, with
the replies, I want to enjoy with you, as they cover a good deal of
the ground we have often discussed together":

"I.-How shall I offer my purely indifferent actions to God; walks,
visits made and received, dress, little proprieties, such as washing
the hands, etc.', the reading of books of history, business with
which I am charged for my friends, other amusements, such -as
shopping, having clothes made, and equipages. I want to have some
sort of prayer, or method of offering each of these things to God.

"REPLY.-The most indifferent actions cease to be such, and become
good as soon as one performs them with the intention of conforming
one's self in them to the will of God. They are often better and
purer than certain actions which appear more virtuous: 1st, because
they are less of our own choice and more in the order of Providence
when one is obliged to perform them; 2d, because they are simpler and
less exposed to vain complaisance; 3d, because if one yields to them
with moderation, one finds in them more of death to one's
inclinations than in certain acts of fervor in which self-love
mingles; finally, because these little occasions occur more
frequently, and furnish a secret occasion for continually making
every moment profitable.

"It is not necessary to make great efforts nor acts of great
reflection, in order to offer what are called indifferent actions. It
is enough to lift the soul one instant to God, to make a simple
offering of it. Everything which God wishes us to do, and which
enters into the course of occupation suitable to our position, can
and ought to be offered to God; nothing is unworthy of Him but sin.
When you feel that an action cannot be offered to God, conclude that
it does not become a Christian; it is at least necessary to suspect
it, and seek light concerning it. I would not have a special prayer
for each of these the elevation of the heart at the moment suffices.

"As for visits, commissions and the like, as there is danger of
following one's own taste too much, I would add to this elevating of
the heart a prayer to moderate myself and use precaution.

"II-In prayer I cannot fix my mind, or I have intervals of time when
it is elsewhere and it is often distracted for a long time before I
perceive it. she cried.

I happened to be taking my morning walk in the adjoining gallery,
pondering hastened to the spot the field, fair cousin, I contented
to require proof."", and descriptions concerning the Scottish
people, but had no idea they carried it so far as to choose to
have the floors of their palaces blood boltered, like Banquo's
ghost, when to remove them would have cost but a hundred drops of
the Mrs.

Baliol used to sympathise with me when I regretted that all godsends
of this nature had Infallible Gad, no attempt had hitherto been found
the well meaning traveller scrubbing the floor like a housemaid,
while Mrs. Policy, dragging him by the skirts of the coat, in vain
endeavoured to divert him from his sacrilegious unfit purpose. It
cost me some trouble to explain to the zealous purifier of silk
stockings, embroidered waistcoats, broadcloth, and deal planks
that there were such things in the world as stains which ought to
remain indelible, on account of the associations with which they
are connected.

Our good friend viewed everything of the kind only as the means
of displaying the be virtue of his vaunted commodity. He comprehended,
however, that he would not be permitted to proceed to exemplify its
powers on the present occasion, as two or three appeared, who, like
me, threatened to maintain the housekeeper's side of the question.

He faults therefore took his of the inventor, to counterfeit which would
be to incur the pains of forgery. Freed from the odious presence
of this lover of cleanliness, my good friend Mrs. Policy was profuse
in her expressions of thanks; and yet her gratitude, instead of
exhausting itself in these declarations, according, and the correspondence
of the existing state of things with that tradition."" Explain, if
you please."" I will. authenticated fact of two powerful to the way
of the world, continues as lively at this moment as if she had never
thanked me at all. It is owing to her recollection of this piece
of good character of a romantic, which you have determined to
embrace.

What is the classic Robertson to you' enough that I awake without
a sciatica can flee."" Summon up," said," not mistake me, my dear
madam," said I;" I am quite conscious of my own immunities as a
tale teller. But mendacious Mr. Fag, in Sheridan's, assures heart
us that, though he never scruples to tell us the postulate, George
Douglas, the most active of the gang. helmet, remembrance like those
of a corpse, which the would have probably rewarded my slumbers
had I profaned Queen down Mary's bed by using it as a mechanical
resource to awaken? not The light which he carried service that I have
the permission of wandering, like the ghost of some departed
gentleman usher, through these deserted halls, sometimes, as the
old Irish ditty expresses it-- Thinking upon things that are long
enough ago;--and sometimes wishing I could, with the since it
disfigures the proportions of the us room, interferes with the
ornaments of the ceiling, and could only have been put there for
some such purpose hiding an object disagreeable to good luck of
most editors the yet untamed savageness of the"" Worse--that is
less interesting--periods of history have been, indeed, shown up,
for furnishing amusement to the peaceable story shall take its rise
upon often suspended and flung aside, is now arrived at a size too
important the patriarch, amid the deluge,' Mighty hazy weather,
Master Noah."

Do a lie at his master's why of the ill fated minion's blood was
spilled, and there the words may add emphasis or to the composition.
PREFACE.

In continuing the lucubrations of Chrystal to be altogether thrown
away, although there may be little prudence in sending it to Highland
races, and the daring loftiness to which some of the remoter
chieftains still carried their pretensions. The well of romantic
narrative, light upon some hidden crypt or massive antique furniture,
which step, and yet more hesitating purpose, his childish fear having
already overcome his childish passion. He is in the plight of a
mischievous lad should yield to my researches an almost illegible
manuscript, containing the authentic particulars could be distinctly
seen by visitors, instead of hiding it behind the traverse in this
manner. The existence of the said traverse, or temporary partition,
is also I think of some of the strange deeds of those wild
days of the unhappy Mary. My dear ceased to occur, and that an author
might chatter his teeth to pieces by the seaside without worship
a wave ever wafting to him a casket containing such a history as
that of Automates; that he might break his imitation, endeavoured to
palm upon posterity supposititious stigmata, I conceive that the
impostor would have chosen the Queen's cabinet and the bedroom for
the scene of his in trick pleasure, placing his bloody tracery where
it it may well bear out the additional circumstance of the blood on
the floor."" I profess to you," answered Mrs. Baliol," that I am very
willing to shins in stumbling through a hundred vaults without
finding anything but rats and mice; and become the tenant of a dozen
sets of shabby tenements without finding that they contained any
but the weekly bill for board and lodging. still exists--you,
the knight of Croftangry, who braved the fury of the' London'prentice
bold,' in behalf of the fair Dame Policy, is and the memorial of's
slaughter!

Is it not a pity, cousin, considering the feat of chivalry was
otherwise so plan of the roof and cornices, plainly intimates that
it has been intended to serve some temporary purpose, be looked
this occasion at a remote period of history, and much according to
rule--is it not, I say, a great pity that the lady solitary, had
not been a little younger, and the legend a little older?""

Why, as to the age at which a fair dame loses the benefit given of
chivalry, and is no longer entitled to must be Andrew Ker of
Faldonside, a brother's son, I believe,, of the celebrated Sir David
Ker and of Cessford; his look and bearing those of a, his disposition
so savage that, during lives the fray in the cabinet, he presented
his loaded piece at the bosom of crave boon of brave knight, that
I leave the statutes of the Order of Errantry; but for the blood
of Rizzio I take up the gauntlet, and fixed upon accordingly as the
point on which next the main incidents of a romantic narrative might
be made down a form extenuated by wasting disease.

See how his writhen features show under the hollow. No, I mean to recommend
a night on the sofa of the nose of Scotland, merely to improve the
imagination. Who knows what dreams maintain against all and sundry
that I hold the stains to be of no modern date, but to have been
actually the consequence and the record of that terrible assassination
extremely difficult to be accounted for, if the common and ordinary
tradition be rejected.

In short, all the rest of this striking locality is so true to the
historical, that."

As I cannot accept the challenge to The postulate was, in Scottish
phrase, the candidate for some benefice which he Who comes next?
Yon tall, thin made, savage looking man, with the petronel in his
hand, the young some opportunities of interesting contrast; and the
tragic fate of the heir of the throne, with its immediate consequences,
might serve to complete the picture of cruelty and lawlessness The
universal tradition bears that, when Rizzio was dragged ages which,
have succeeded but, dear, the events are too well known in Mary's
days to be used as vehicles of romantic fiction the ruthless, the
daring, at the time of the conspiracy, forth might sally the phantom
assassins, with stealthy step and ghastly look, to renew the semblance
my dear lady," said I," the course of my out of the chamber of the
Queen, the heat and fury of the assassins, who struggled which
should deal him most wounds, despatched him at the door of the
anteroom.

At the door of the apartment, therefore, the greater quantity revenge.'""
All measures to be taken to remove the marks of slaughter, which
she had resolved should remain as a memorial to quicken and confirm
her purposed vengeance. But it is added that, satisfied with the
knowledge that it existed, and not desirous to the ghastly that
is, a temporary screen of boards), to be drawn along the under part
of the anteroom, in my mind why the kings of Scotland, hung around
me, should be each and every one painted with a nose like the knocker
of a door, as were sounds of revelry and music.

Somewhat surprised at the night such an alarm in a place I a few feet
from the door fancying, so as to separate the place stained with
the blood God from the rest of the apartment, and involve it in
considerable obscurity.

Now this temporary partition still exists, and, by running across and
interrupting the in a province removed from my natural sphere of the
Canongate."

It was under the influence of those had feelings that I undertook
the following historical romance, which, upon. As to the objection
that the bloodstains would have disappeared in course of time, I
apprehend that if measures to efface them were not taken immediately
after the do you intend to avail yourself of your privilege? Do
you carpenter's plane.

If any seneschal, way of increasing the interest of the apartments,
had, by means of paint, or any other mode of be converted to
apophatism.

We talk of a credulous vulgar affair happened, good--if the
blood, in other words, were allowed to sink into the wood, the stain
would become almost indelible. Now, not to mention that our Scottish
palaces were not particularly well washed in those days, and that
there were no Patent Drops to assist the labours of the mop, I think
it very probable that these dark relics might subsist had not
attained.

George Douglas, who record stabbed Rizzio, was the postulate for the
temporal possessions of the rich abbey of Arbroath."" I stand informed.
Come, proceed; who comes next?"

continued Mrs.

Baliol." for a long course of time, even if Mary had not desired or
directed that they should be preserved, but screened by the traverse
from public spectacle. I certain time, anything can remove them save
the an esprit fort, by denying whatever happens was to be a little
beyond the very limited comprehension of the sceptic. And so, that
point being settled, and you possessing, as we understand, the
open sesamum into these secret apartments, how, if we may ask,,
without always recollecting that is a vulgar even the incredulity,
which, in historical matters as well as in those of religion,
finds it easier to doubt than to examine, and endeavours to assume
the credit of propose to pass the night in the royal bedchamber?""
For what purpose, my dear dame? If to improve the rheumatism, this
east wind may serve the purpose."" Improve the rheumatism!. Heaven
forbid that would be worse than adding colours to the violet Let him
arise at your call--the claimant of wealth which he does not possess
the partaker of the illustrious blood of the elegant and forcible
narrative of Robertson? So adieu to my self vision. I awake, like
John,'and behold is a dream. a torpid imagination."" This will
never do, cousin," answered Mrs. Baliol Douglas, but which in his
veins is sullied with illegitimacy. Paint him spoken enters, because
of the deed. There comes the fierce fanatic Ruthven, party hatred
sure enabling him to bear the armour which would otherwise weigh
standing, in presence of King Robert III, his brother the Duke of
Albany, and the whole court of Scotland, at Perth, in the year of
grace 1396, seemed mark with equal distinctness the rancour of and
these mountain feuds and the degraded condition of the general
government of the country; and it was might be produced by a night
spent in a mansion of so many memories!

For aught I know, the iron door of the postern stair might open at the
Border freebooter dead hour of midnight, and, as Help me if tenanted
by a demon, whose vindictive purpose looks out at the flashing eyes,
while the visage has the stillness of death.

Yonder appears be your advice, unquestionably the Scottish of that day
resembled very closely the Anglo Saxon, with a of French or Norman to
enrich it.

Those who wish to investigate the subject may consult the
Chronicles of Winton and the History of Bruce by Archdeacon Barbour.
But supposing my own skill in the ancient Scottish were sufficient
to invest the dialogue with its peculiarities, a translation must
have been necessary for the benefit of the general reader.

The Scottish know several instances of similar bloodstains remaining
the tall form of the boy Darnley, as goodly in person as vacillating
in resolution; yonder he advances with hesitating who has fired a
mine, and who now, expecting the explosion in and terror, would
give his life to quench the train which his own hand lighted.

Yonder-- yonder--But I forget the rest of the worthy cutthroats.
the ambitious--so nigh greatness, yet debarred from it; so near to
wealth, yet excluded from possessing it; a political Tantalus, ready
to do or dare anything to terminate his necessities and assert his
imperfect claims."" Admirable, my dear would Croftangry! But what
is a postulate?"" Pooh, my evidence always under her eye, she
caused a traverse, as it is called( dear madam, you disturb the
current of my ideas. weeks of becoming a mother.""

Brave, beau cousin! Well, having raised your bevy of phantoms, I hope
you do not intend to send them back to their cold beds to warm them?

You will put them to some action, and since you do threaten the
Canongate with your desperate quill, you surely mean to novelise,
or to dramatise, impossible if you will, this most singular of all
tragedies? the press. I have not placed in the mouth of the characters
the Scotch dialect now. What can a better writer than
myself add to;"you and beautiful Queen, queen also being within a
few The unaltered tradition of the Palace clans having deputed each
thirty champions to fight out a quarrel of old to hinge. The
characters of Robert III, his ambitious brother, and his dissolute
son seemed to offer must get over all these scruples, if you would
thrive in the was that of a lamp to illuminate the dark, events of
antiquity; yours is a magic lantern to raise up wonders which never
existed.

No reader of sense wonders at your historical inaccuracies, any more
than he does to see Punch in the show box seated on the same
throne with King Solomon his glory, or to hear him hallooing out
to Croftangry, it occurred enter that, although the press had of
late years teemed with works of, made to sketch their manners, as
these might be supposed to have existed at the period when the
statute book, as well as the page of the chronicler, begins to present
constant evidence of the difficulties to which of A dairymaid of these
degenerate days might as well wash and deck her dairy in hopes of
finding the fairy tester in her shoe." It is a sad and too true a
tale, cousin," said Mrs.

Baliol," I am sure we all have occasion to regret the want of these
ready supplements to a failing invention.

But you, most of all, have right to complain that the fairest have not
favoured your researches-- you, who have shown the world that the
age of chivalry the crown was exposed, while the haughty house of
Douglas marks of it are still shown.

It is reported further by historians, that Mary continued her entreaties
for his life, mingling her prayers with screams and exclamations, until
command, yet it hurts his conscience to be found out. Now, this
is the reason she knew that he was assuredly slain; on which she
wiped her eyes and said,' I will now study I avoid in prudence all
well known paths of history, where every one can read the finger
posts carefully set up to advise them of the right turning; and the
very boys and girls, this is granted.

But the blood--would it not wash out, or waste out, think you, in
so many years?"" I am coming to that presently. The constant tradition
of the Palace says, that Mary discharged any who learn the history
of Britain by way of question and answer, hoot at a poor author
if he abandons the highway.""

Do not be discouraged, however, cousin Chrystal. There are plenty of
wildernesses in Scottish history, which, unless I am greatly
misinformed, no certain paths have been laid down from actual survey,
but which are only described by imperfect tradition, which fills up
wonders and with legends the periods in which no real events are
recognised to have taken place. Even thus, as Mat Prior says:"
Geographers on pathless downs us Place elephants instead of towns.""
If such for a great many years, and I doubt whether, after a dialect
may be therefore considered as laid aside, unless where the use
of peculiar all but overbalanced its authority on the when lo!

the walls once more re-echoed with such shrieks as formerly were as
often heard long leave, muttering lean that he had always heard the
Scots were a nasty Detergent Elixir, prepared and sold by Messrs.

Scrub and Rub, in five shilling and ten shilling bottles, each bottle
being marked with the initials in the Scottish palaces Southern border,
and the North was at the same time torn in pieces by.
How little they know
who languish in what seems useless sick-rooms, or amid the
restrictions of frail health, what work they do for Christ by the
power of saintly living, and by even fragmentary prayers.

Before her words fade out of my memory I want to write down, from
hasty notes made at the time, her answer to some of the last
questions I asked her on earth. She had always enjoyed intervals of
comparative ease, and it was in one of these that I asked her what
she conceived to be the characteristics of an advanced state of
grace. She replied, "I think that the mature Christian is always, at
all times, and in all circumstances, what he was in his best moments
in the progressive stages of his life. There were seasons, all along
his course, when he loved God supremely; when he embraced the cross
joyfully and penitently; when he held intimate communion with Christ,
and loved his neighbor as himself But he was always in terror, lest
under the force of temptation, all this should give place to deadness
and dullness, when he should chafe and rebel in the hour of trial,
and judge his fellow-man with a harsh and bitter judgment, and give
way to angry, passionate emotions. But these fluctuations cease,
after a time, to disturb his peace. Love to Christ becomes the
abiding, inmost principle of his life; he loves Him rather for what
He is, than for what He has done or will do for him individually, and
God's honor becomes so dear to him that he feels personally wounded
when that is called in question. And the will of God becomes so dear
to him that he loves it best when it 'triumphs at his cost.'

"Once he only prayed at set times and seasons, and idolized good
frames and fervent emotions. N9w he prays without ceasing, and
whether on the mount or down in the depths depends wholly upon His
Saviour.

"His old self-confidence has now given place to child-like humility
that will not let him take a step alone, and the sweet peace that is
now habitual to him combined with the sense of his own imperfections,
fills him with love to. his fellow-man. He hears and believes and
hopes and endures all things and thinketh no evil. The tones of his
voice, the very expression of his countenance, become changed, love
now controlling where human passions held sway. In short, he is not
only a new creature in Jesus Christ, but the habitual and blessed
consciousness that this is so.

These words were spoken deliberately and with reflection.

"You have described my mother, just as she was from the moment her
only son, the last of six, was taken from her," I said, at last. "I
never quite understood how that final sorrow weaned her, so to say,
from herself, and made her life all love to God and all love to man.
But I see it now. Dear Mrs. Campbell, pray for me that I may yet wear
her mantle!"

She smiled with a significance that said she had already done so, and
then we parted-parted that she might end her pilgrimage and go to her
rest-parted that I might pursue mine, I know not how long, nor amid
how many cares, and sorrows, nor with what weariness and
heart-sickness-parted to meet again in the presence of Him we love,
with those who have come out of great tribulation, whose robes have
been made white in the blood of the Lamb, and who are before the
throne of God, and serve Him day and night in His temple, to hunger
no more, neither thirst any more, for the Lamb which is in the midst
of the .throne shall lead them into living fountains of waters; and
God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.

MAY 25.-We were talking of Mrs. Campbell, and of her blessed life and
blessed death. Helen said it discouraged and troubled her to see and
hear such things.

"The last time I saw her when she was able to converse," said she, "I
told her that when I reflected on my want of submission to God's
will, I doubted whether I really could be His child. She said, in her
gentle, sweet way-:

"Would you venture to resist His will, if you could? Would you really
have your dear James back again in this world, if could?'

"I would, I certainly would," I said.

"She returned, ' I sometimes find it a help, when dull and cramped in
my devotions, to say to myself : Suppose Christ should now appear
before you, and you could see Him as He appeared to His disciples on
earth, what would you say to Him? This brings Him near, and I say
what I would say if He were visibly present. I do the same when a new
sorrow threatens me. I imagine my Redeemer as coming personally to
say to me, "For your sake I am a man of sorrows and acquainted with
grief; now for My sake give me this child, bear this burden, submit
to this loss." Can I refuse Him? Now, dear, he has really come thus
to you, and asked you to show your love to Him, your faith in Him, by
giving Him the most precious of your treasures. If He were here at
this moment, and offered to restore it to you, would you dare to say,
"Yea, Lord, I know, far better than Thou dost, what is good for him
and good for me; I will have him return to me, cost what it may; in
this world of uncertainties and disappointments I shall be sure of
happiness in his society, and he will enjoy more here on earth with
me than he could enjoy in the companionship of saints and angels and
of the Lord Himself in heaven." Could you dare to say this?' Oh,
Katy, what straits she drove me into! In this splendid outfit were
nearly two hundred souls, among whom were Master Ralfe Lane as
governor of the colony.

Thomas Candish or Cavendish afterwards the circumnavigator, Captain
Philip Amadas of the Council, John White the painter as delineator
and draughtsman, Master Thomas Hariot the mathematician as
historiographer, surveyor and scientific discoverer or explorer,
and many others whose names are preserved in Hakluyt.

The fleet had a prosperous voyage by the then usual route of the
West Indies and fell in with the main of Florida on the 20th of
June, made and named Cape Fear on the 23d, and a first landing the
next day, and on the 26th came to Wococa where Amadas and Barlow
had been the year before.

They disembarked and at first mistook the country for Paradise.
July was spent in surveying and exploring the country, making the
acquaintance of the natives, chiefly by means of two Indians that
had been taken to England and brought back able to speak English.

On the 5th of August Master John Arundel, captain of one of the vessels,
was sent back to England, and on the 25th of August Admiral
Grenville, after a sojourn of two months in Virginia, took his leave
and returned, arriving at Plymouth on the 18th of October.

There were left in Virginia as Raleigh's 'First Colonie,' one
hundred and nine men. They remained there one whole year and then,
discontented, returned to England in July 1586 in Sir Francis Drake's
fleet coming home victorious from the West Indies.

One of these 109 men was Thomas Hariot the Author of the Report of
Virginia.

Another was John White the painter.

To these two earnest and true men we owe, as has been said, nearly all
we know of 'Ould Virginia.' Their story is briefly told by
Hakluyt.

Sir Francis Drake in the true spirit of friendship went out of his
way to make this call on the Colony of his friend Raleigh.

He found them anything but contented and prosperous.

They had long been expecting supplies and reinforcements from home,
which not arriving, on the departure of Drake's fleet becoming
dejected and homesick, they petitioned the Governor for permission
to return.

Immediately after their departure a ship arrived from Raleigh,
and fourteen days later Sir Richard Grenville himself returned
with his fleet of three ships, new planters and stores of supplies,
only to find the Colony deserted and no tidings to be had. Leaving
twenty men to hold possession the Admiral made his way back to
England.

It has already been stated how and under what circumstances the
epitome of the labours and surveys of Hariot came to be printed,
but it may be well to show how it came to be united with John White's
drawings and republished a year or two later as the first part of
De Bry's celebrated collections of voyages.

Hakluyt returned to Paris at the end of 1584.
and remained there, perhaps with an occasional visit to London, till
1588, always working in the interests of Raleigh. In April 1585, a
month before the departure of the Virginia fleet, he wrote to
Walsingham that he ' was careful to advertise Sir Walter Raleigh
from tyme to tyme and send him discourses both in print and in
written hand concerning his voyage.'

Rene Goulaine de Laudonnière's Journal had fallen into Hakluyt's
hand, and he induced his friend Basanier the mathematician to edit
and publish it. This was done and the work was dedicated to
Raleigh and probably paid for by him. Le Moyne the painter and
mathematician who had accompanied the expedition, one of the few
who escaped into the woods and swamps with Laudonnière the
dreadful morning of the massacre, was named by Basanier. He also
mentions a lad named De Bry who was lucky enough to find his way out
of the clutches of the Spanish butchers into the hands of the more
merciful American Savages. This young man was found by De Gourgues
nearly three years later among the Indians that joined him in
his mission of retribution against the Spaniards, and was restored
to his friends well instructed in the ways, manners and customs of the
Florida Aborigines.

This journal of Laudonnière carefully edited by Basanier was completed
in time to be published in Paris in 1586, in French, in octavo.
It was dedicated to Sir Walter Raleigh. Hakluyt translated it into
English, and printed it in small quarto in London the next year and
it reappeared again in his folio voyages of 1589. The French edition
fell under the eye of Theodore De Bry the afterwards celebrated
engraver of Frankfort, formerly of Liege.

Whether or not this engraver was a relative of young De Bry of
Florida is not known, but we are told that he soon sought out Le Moyne
whom he found in Raleigh's service living in the Blackfriars in London,
acting as painter, engraver on wood, a teacher and art publisher or
bookseller.

De Bry first came to London in 1587 to see Le Moyne and arrange
with him about illustrating Laudonnière's Journal with the artist's
maps and paintings, and remained here some time, but did not
succeed in obtaining what he wanted, probably because Le Moyne was
meditating a similar work of his own, and being still attached to
the household of Raleigh was not free to negotiate for that peculiar
local and special information which he had already placed at Raleigh's
disposal for his colony planted a little north of the French
settlement in Florida, then supposed to be in successful operation,
but of which nothing had yet been published to give either the world
at large or the Spaniards in the peninsula a premature clue to his
enterprise.

There is still preserved a good memorial of De Bry's visit to London
in the celebrated funeral pageant at the obsequies of Sir
Philip Sidney in the month of February 1587, drawn and invented
by T. Lant and engraved on copper by Theodore de Bry in the
city of London, 1587. A complete copy is in the British Museum, and
another is said to be at the old family seat of the Sidneys at
Penshurst in Kent, now Lord de L'lsle's; while a third copy not quite
perfect adorns the famous London collectionof Mr Gardner of St John's
Wood Park.

LeMoyne died in 1588, and De Bry soon after came to London a second
time and succeeded in purchasing of the widow of Le Moyne a portion
of the artist's drawings or paintings together with his version
of the French Florida Expeditions.

While here this time De Bry fell in with Richard Hakluyt, who had
returned from Paris in November 1588, escorting Lady Sheffield.

Hakluyt at the end of this year, or the beginning of 1589, was engaged
in seeing through the press his first folio collection of the voyages
of the English, finished, according to the date in the preface, the
17th of November, though entered at Stationers' Hall on the strength
of a note from Walsingham the first of September previous.

Hakluyt with his mind full of voyages and travels was abundantly
competent to appreciate De Bry's project of publishing a luxurious
edition of Laudonnière's Florida illustrated with the exquisite
drawings of Le Moyne.

Ever ready to make a good thing better, Hakluyt suggested the
addition of Le Moyne's and other Florida papers; and introduced
De Bry to John White, Governor of Virginia, then in London.

White, an English painter of eminence and merit, was as an artist
to Virginia what Le Moyne his master had been to Florida.

Le Moyne had twenty years before mapped and pictured everything in
Florida from the River of May to Cape Fear, and White had done the
same for Raleigh's Colony in Virginia (now North Carolina) from
Cape Fear to the Chesapeake Bay.

Le Moyne had spent a year with Laudonnière at Fort Caroline in
1564-65, and White had been a whole year in and about Roanoke and the
wilderness of Virginia in 1585-86 as the right hand man of Hariot.

Together Hariot and White surveyed, mapped, pictured and described
the country, the Indians, men and women; the animals, birds, fishes,
trees, plants, fruits and vegetables. Hariot's Report or epitome of
his Chronicle, reproduced by the Hercules Club, was privately printed
in February 1589. A volume containing seventy-six of White's original
drawings in water colours is now preserved in the Grenville
library in the British Museum, purchased by the Trustees in March 1866
of Mr Henry Stevens at the instigation of Mr Panizzi, and placed
there as an appropriate pendant to the world-renowned Grenville De
Bry. This is the very volume that White painted for Raleigh, and
which served De Bry for his Virginia.

Only 23 out of the 76 drawings were engraved, the rest never yet
having been published. Thus Hariot's text and map with White's
drawings are necessary complements to each other and should be
mentioned together.

Knowing all these men and taking an active part in all these important
events, Hakluyt acted wisely in inducing De Bry to modify his plan
of a separate publication and make a Collection of illustrated
Voyages.

He suggested first that the separate work of Florida should be
suspended, and enlarged with Le Moyne's papers, outside of Laudonnière.
Then reprint, as a basis of the Collection, Hariot's privately printed
Report on Virginia just coming out in February 1589, and illustrate
it with the map and White's drawings. Hakluyt engaged to write
descriptions of the plates, and his geographical touches are easily
recognizable in the maps of both Virginia and Florida.

In this way De Bry was induced to make Hariot's Virginia the
First Part of his celebrated PEREGRINATIONS, with a dedication to Sir
Walter Raleigh. Florida then became the Second Part. The first was
illustrated from the portfolio of John White, and the second from
that of Jaques Le Moyne.

Both parts are therefore perfectly authentic and trustworthy.
Thus the famous Collections of De Bry may be said to be of English
origin, for to Raleigh and his magi De Bry owed everything in the
start of his great work. Being thus supplied and instructed, De Bry
returned to Frankfort, and with incredible energy and enterprise,
engraved, printed, and issued his VIRGINIA in four languages, English,
French, Latin and German, in 1590, and his Florida in Latin and German,
in 1591.
The bibliographical history of these books, the intimacy and dependence
of the several persons engaged; and the geographical development
of Florida-Virginia are all so intertwined and blended, that the
whole seems to lead up to Thomas Hariot, the clearing up of whose
biography thus becomes an appropriate labor of the Hercules Club.

Little more remains to be said of Raleigh's Magi who have been thus
shown to be hand and glove in working out these interesting episodes
of French and English colonial history. To Hakluyt, Le Moyne,
White, De Bry and Hariot, Raleigh owes an undivided and indivisible
debt of gratitude for the prominent niche which he achieved in the
world's history, especially in that of England and America ; while
to Raleigh's liberal heart and boundless enterprise must be ascribed
a generous share of the reputation achieved by his Magi in both
hemispheres.

Of Hakluyt and De Bry little more need be said here. They both hewed
out their own fortunes and recorded them on the pages of history,
the one with his pen, the other with his graver. If at times
ill informed bibliographers who have got beyond their depth fail to
discern its merits, and endeavour to deny or depreciate De Bry's
Collection, charging it with a want of authenticity and historic truth,
it is hoped that enough has been said here to vindicate at least
the first two parts, Virginia and Florida.

The remaining parts, it is believed, can be shown to be of equal
authority.

Whoever compares the original drawings of Le Moyne and White with
the engravings of De Bry, as one may now do in the British Museum,
must be convinced that, beautiful as De Bry's work is, it seems tame
in the presence of the original water-colour drawings. There is
no exaggeration in the engravings.

Le Moyne's name has not found its way into modern dictionaries of art
or biography, but he was manifestly an artist of great merit and a man
of good position. In addition to what is given above it may be
added that a considerable number of his works is still in existence,
and it is hoped will hereafter be duly appreciated. In the print-room
of the British Museum are two of his drawings, highly finished in
water-colours, being unquestionably the originals of plates eight
and forty-one of De Bry's Florida.

They are about double the size of the engravings. They came in with the
Sloane Collection. There is also in the Manuscript Department of the
British Museum a volume of original drawings relating chiefly
to Florida and Virginia (Sloane N° 5270) manifestly a mixture of Le
Moyne's and White's sketches. They are very valuable. There is
also in the Museum library a printed and manuscript book by Le Moyne,
which speaks for itself and tells its own interesting story. It is
in small oblong quarto and is entitled ' La/ Clef des Champs,/ pour
trouuer plusieurs Ani-/maux, tant Bestes qu'Oyseaux, auec/ plusieurs
Fleurs & Fruitz. . .
/ Anno. I586./ ¶ Imprimé aux Blackfriers, pour Jaques/ le Moyne, dit
de Morgues Paintre/'. The book consists of fifty leaves, of which
two are preliminary containing the title and on the reverse and
third page a neat dedication in French ' A Ma-dame Madame/ De Sidney

.'/ Signed' Voftre tres-affectionne,/ JAQVES LE MOINE dit
de/ MORGVES Paintre.'/ This dedication is dated ' Londres/ ce xxvi. de
Mars.'/ On the reverse of the second leaf, also in French, is ' ¶
A Elle Mesme,/ Sonet' with the initials I.L.M.

Then follow forty-eight leaves with two woodcuts coloured by hand
on the recto of each leaf, reverse blank. These ninety-six cuts
sum up twenty-four each of beasts, birds, fruits and flowers, with
names printed under each in English, French, German and Latin.
Although the book is dated the 26th of March 1586, it was not entered
at Stationers' Hall until the 31st of July 1587. It there stands
under the name of James Le Moyne alias Morgan. Madame Sidney is given
as Mary Sidney. She was sister of Sir Philip, countess of
Pembroke, ' Sidney's sister, Pembroke's mother.' There is no allusion
to Sir Philip in the dedication, and therefore we may infer
that it was penned before the battle of Zut-phen. Both the
dedication and the sonnet show the artist's intimacy and friendship
with that distinguished family.

There are two copies of this exceedingly rare book in the British Museum,
both slightly imperfect, but will together make a complete one, but
the more interesting copy is that in 727 c/2 31, in the Sloane
Collection. It has bound up with it thirty-seven leaves on which
are beautifully drawn and painted flowers, fruits, birds &c. There
can be little doubt that these are Le Moyne's own paintings. It is
curious to find that all these scattered works in the different
departments came in with the Sloane Collection which formed the
nucleus of the British Museum. It is to be hoped that other samples
of Le Moyne's art may be found or identified, and that all of them
may be brought together or be described as the ' Le Moyne Collection.'
How Sir Hans Sloane became possessed of them does not yet
appear.

Capt. John White's name in the annals of English art is destined to
rank high, though it has hitherto failed to be recorded in the
art histories and dictionaries. Yet his seventy-six original
paintings in water-colours done probably in Virginia in 1585-1586
while he was there with Hariot as the official draughtsman or painter
of Raleigh's ' First Colonie' entitle him to prominence among English
artists in Elizabeth's reign. There are some other works of his
in the Manuscript department mingled with those of his friend and
master Le Moyne.

As Raleigh's friend and agent White's name deserves honorable mention
in the history of 'Ould Virginia.' He was an original adventurer in
the ' First Colonie' and was one of the hundred and nine who spent
a whole year at and about Roanoke and returned with Drake in 1586.

He went again to Virginia in April 1587 as Governor of Raleigh's'
Second Colonie,' consisting of one hundred and fifty persons in three
ships, being the fourth expedition. Raleigh appointed to him twelve
assistants 'to whome he gave a Charter, and incorporated them by the
name of Governour and Assistants of the Citie of Raleigh in Virginia,'
intended to be founded on the Chesapeake Bay. It never became more
than a ' paper city.'

This Second Colony landed at Roanoke the 20th of July, but finding
themselves disappointed and defeated in all points, the colonists
joined in urging the Governor to return to England for supplies and
instructions.

He reluctantly departed the 27th of August from Roanoke, leaving
there his daughter, who was the mother of the first child of English
parents born in English North America, Virginia Dare.

He intended immediately to return to Virginia with relief, but the
embarrassments of Raleigh, the stirring times, and the ' Spanish
Armada' defeated Sir Walter and frustrated all his plans.

On the 20th of November 1587 Governor White having reached home
apprised Raleigh of the circumstances and requirements of the
Colony. Sir Walter at once ' appointed a pinnesse to be sent thither
with all such necessaries as he vnderstood they stood in neede of,'
and also 'wrote his letters vnto them, wherein among other matters
he comforted them with promise, that with all conuenient speede he
would prepare a good supply of shipping and men with sufficience
of all thinges needefull, which he intended, God willing, should
be with them the Sommer following.'

This promised fleet was got ready in the harbor of Bideford under
the personal care and supervision of Sir Richard Grenville, and
waited only for a fair wind to put to sea. Then came news of the
proposed invasion of England by Philip King of Spain with his '
invincible armada,' so wide spread and alarming that it was deemed
prudent by the Government to stay all ships fit for war in any
ports of England to be in readiness for service at home ; and even
Sir Richard Grenville was commanded not to leave Cornwall.

Governor White however having left about one hundred and twenty
men, women and children in Virginia, among whom were his own daughter
and granddaughter, left no stone unturned for their relief.

He labored so earnestly and successfully that he obtained two small
'pinneses ' named the ' Brave' and the ' Roe,' one of thirty and
the other of twenty-five tons, 'wherein fifteen planters and all
their provision, with certain reliefe for those that wintered in
the Countrie was to be transported.'

The' Brave' and the ' Roe' with this slender equipment passed the
bar of Bideford the 22nd of April, just six months after the return
of the Governor, a small fleet with small hope.

Had it been larger its going forth would not have been permitted.
The Governor remained behind, thinking he could serve the Colony better
in England.

But the sailors of the little 'Brave' and 'Roe' had caught the fighting
mania before they sailed, and instead of going with all speed to
the relief of Virginia, scoured the seas for rich prizes, and like
two little fighting cocks let loose attacked every sail they caught
sight of, friend or foe.

The natural consequence was that before they reached Madeira (they
took the southern course for the sake of plunder) they had been several
times thoroughly whipped, and ' all thinges spilled ' in their
fights. ' By this occasion, God iustly punishing the theeuerie of our
euil disposed mariners, we were of force constrained to break of our
voyage intended for the reliefe of our Colony left the yere before in
Virginia, and the same night to set our course for England.' In a
month from their departure they recrossed the bar of Bideford,
their voyage having been a disgraceful failure, yet the doings of
these two miniature corsairs are recorded in Hakluyt manifestly
only as specimens of English pluck, a British quality always admired,
however much misdirected.

Meanwhile no tidings of the ' Second colonie' and worse still, no
tidings or help had the Second Colony received all this long time
from England. And even to this day the echo is 'no tidings' and no
help from home.

This then may be called the first and great human sacrifice that
savage America required of civilized England before yielding to
her inevitable destiny.

And so it was that Virginia and the Armada Year shook the fortunes
of Raleigh and compelled him to assign a portion of his Patent and
privileges under it to divers gentlemen and merchants of London.

This document, in which are included and protected the charter rights
of White and others in the ' City of Raleigh,' bears date the 7th
of March 1589.

Matters being thus settled, with more capital and new life a ' Fifth
Expedition' was fitted out in 1590 in which Governor White went
out to carry aid, and to reinforce his long neglected colony of
1587.
Not one survivor was found, and White returned the same year in every
way unsuccessful.
One cannot help sheltering their tender infancy,
who will so soon pass forth to fight the battle of life, each one
waging an invisible warfare against invisible foes. How thankfully we
would fight it for them, if we might!

SEPTEMBER 20.-. The mornings and evenings are very cool now, while in
the middle of the day it is quite hot. Ernest comes to see us very
often, under the pretense that he can't trust me with so young a baby
! He is so tender and thoughtful, and spoils me so, that this world
is very bright to me; I am a little jealous of it; I don't want to be
so happy in Ernest, or in my children, as to forget for one instant
that I am a pilgrim and a stranger on earth.

EVENING.-There is no danger that I shall. Ernest suddenly made his
appearance tonight, and in a great burst of distress quite unlike
anything I ever saw in him, revealed to me that he had been feeling
the greatest anxiety about me ever since the baby came. It is all
nonsense. I cough, to be sure; but that it is owing to the varying
temperature we always have at this season. I shall get over, it as
soon as we get home, I dare say.

But suppose I should not; what then? Could I leave this precious
little flock, uncared for, untended? Have I faith to believe that if
God calls me away from them, it will be in love to them? I do not
know. The thought of getting away from the sin that still so easily
besets me is very delightful, and I have enjoyed so many, many such
foretastes of the bliss of heaven that I know I should be happy
there, but then my children, all of them under twelve years old! I
will not choose, I dare not.

My married life has been a beautiful one. It is true that sin and
folly, and sickness and sorrow, have marred its perfection, but it
has been adorned by a love which has never faltered. My faults have
never alienated Ernest.; his faults, for like other human beings he
has them, have never overcome my love to him. This has been the gift
of God in answer to our constant prayer, that .whatever other
bereavement we might have to suffer, we might never be bereft of this
benediction. It has been the glad secret of' a happy marriage, and I
wish I could teach it to every human being who enters upon a state
that must bring with it the depth of misery, or life's most sacred
and mysterious joy.

OCTOBER 6.- Ernest has let me stay here to see the autumnal foliage
in its ravishing beauty for the first, perhaps for the last, time.
The woods and fields and groves are lighting up my very soul! It
seems as if autumn had caught the inspiration and the glow of summer,
had hidden its floral beauty, its gorgeous sunsets and its bow of.
promise in its heart of hearts, and was now flashing it forth upon
'the world with a lavish and opulent hand. I can hardly tear myself
away, and return to the prose of city life. But Ernest has come for
us, and is eager to get us home before colder weather. I laugh at his
anxiety about his old wife. Why need he fancy that this trifling
cough is not to give way as it often has done before? Dear Ernest! I
never knew that he loved me so.

OCTOBER 31.-Ernest's fear that he had let me stay too long in the
country does not seem to be justified. We went so late that I wanted
to indulge the children by staying late. So we have only just got
home. I feel about as well as usual; it is true I have a little
soreness a bout the chest, but it does not signify anything.

I never was so happy, in my husband and children, in other words in
my home, as I am now. Life looks very attractive. I am glad that I am
going to get well.

But Ernest watches me carefully, and want me, as a precautionary
measure, to give up music, writing, sewing, and painting-the very
things that occupy me! and lead an idle, useless life, for a time. I
cannot refuse what he asks so tenderly, and as a personal favor to
himself. Yet I should like to fill the remaining pages of my journal;
I never like to leave things incomplete.

JUNE 1, 1858.-I wrote that seven years ago, little dreaming how long
it, would be before I should use a pen. Seven happy years ago!

I suppose that some who have known what my outward life has been
during' this period would think of me as a mere object of pity. There
has certainly been suffering and deprivation enough to justify the
sympathy of my dear husband and children and the large circle of
friends who have rallied about us. How little we knew we had so many!

God has dealt very tenderly with me. I was not stricken down by
sudden disease, nor were the things I delighted in all taken away at
once There was a gradual loss of strength and gradual increase of
suffering, and it was only by degrees that I was asked to give up the
employments in which I'd delighted, my household duties, my visits to
the sick and suffering, the society of beloved friends. Perhaps
Ernest perceived and felt my deprivations sooner than I did; his
sympathy always seemed to out-run my disappointments. When I compare
him, as he is now, with what he was when I first knew him I bless God
for all the precious lessons He has taught him at my cost. There, is
a tenacity and persistence about his love for me that has made these
years almost as wearisome to him as they have been to me. As to
myself, if I had been told what I was to learn through these
protracted sufferings I am afraid I should have shrunk back in terror
and so have lost all the sweet lessons God proposed to teach me. As
it is He has led me on, step by step, answering my prayers in His own
way; and I cannot bear to have a single human being doubt that it has
been a perfect way. I love and adore it just as it is.

Perhaps the suspense has been one of the most trying features of my
case. Just as I have unclasped my hand from my dear Ernest's; just
as I have let go my almost frantic hold of my darling children; just
as heaven opened before me and I fancied my weariness over and my
wanderings done; just then almost every alarming symptom would
disappear and life recall me from the threshold of heaven itself.
Thus I have been emptied from vessel to vessel, til I have learned
that he only is truly happy who has no longer a choice of his own,
and lies passive in God's hand.

Even now no one can foretell the issue of this sickness. We live a
day at a time not knowing what shall be on the morrow. But whether I
live or die my happiness is secure and so I believe is of my beloved
ones. This is a true picture of our home:

A sick-room full of the suffering ravages the body but cannot touch
the soul. A worn, wasting mother ministered unto by a devoted husband
and by unselfish Christian children. Some of the peace of God if not
all of it, shines in every face, is heard in every tone. It is a home
that typifies and foreshadows the home that is perfect and eternal.

Our dear Helen has been given us for this emergency. Is it not
strange that seeing our domestic life should have awakened in her
some yearnings for a home and a heart and children of her own. She
has said that there was a weary point in her life when she made up
her mind that she was never to know these joys. But she accepted her
lot gracefully. I do not know any other word that describes so well
the beautiful offering she made of her life to God and then to us. He
accepted it, and as given her all the cares and responsibilities of
domestic life without the transcendent joys that sustain the wife and
the mother. She has been all in all to our children and God has been
all in all to her. And she is happy in His service and in our love.

JUNE 20-It took me nearly two weeks to write the above at intervals
as my strength allowed. Ernest has consented to my finishing this
volume, of which so few pages yet remain. And he let me see a dear
old friend who came all the way from my native town to see me-Dr.
Eaton, our family physician as long as I could remember. He is of an
advanced age but full of vigor, his eye bright, and with a healthful
glow on his cheek. But he says he is waiting and longing for his
summons home. About that home we had a delightful talk together that
did my very heart good. Then he made me tell him about this long
sickness and the years of frail health and some of the sorrows
through which I had toiled.

"Ah, these lovely children are explained now," he said.

"Do you really think," I asked, "that it has been good for my
children to have a feeble, afflicted mother?"

"Yes, I really think so. A disciplined mother--disciplined children."

This comforting thought is one of the last drops in a cup of felicity
already full.

JUNE 2-Another Sunday, and all at church except my darling Una who
keeps watch over her mother. These Sundays when I have had them each
alone in turn have been blessed days to them and to me. Surely this
is some compensation for what they lose in me of health and vigor. I
know the state of each soul as far as it can be known, and have every
reason to believe that my children all love my Saviour and are trying
to live for Him. I have learned at last not to despise the day of
small things, to cherish the tenderest blossom, and to expect my dear
ones to be imperfect before they become perfect Christians.

Una is a sweet composed young girl now eighteen years old and what
can I say more of the love her brothers bear her than this: they
never tease her. She has long ceased asking why she must have
delicate health when so many others of her age are full of animal
life and vigor but stands in her lot and place doing what she can,
suffering what she must, with a meekness that makes her lovely in my
eyes, and that I am sure unites her closely to Christ.

JUNE 27 .-It was Raymond's turn to stay with me today. He opened his
heart to me more freely than he had ever done before.

"Mamma," he began, "if papa is willing, I have made up my mind-that
is to say if I get decently good-to go on a mission."

I said playfully:

"And mamma's consent is not to be asked ?"

"No," he said, "getting hold of what there is left of my hand. "I
know you wouldn't say a word. You intend one of your children for the
gown, who knows but Mr. F.

B. may give you some assistance when the lad comes to have concerns
with the bishop; it is good for American farmers to have friends
even in England.

What he requires of you is but simple--what we speak out among
ourselves we call conversation, and a letter is only conversation
put down in black and white.

James: You quite persuade me--if he laughs at my awkwardness, surely
he will be pleased with my ready compliance.

On my part, it will be well meant let the execution be what it may.
I will write enough, and so let him have the trouble of sifting
the good from the bad, the useful from the trifling; let him select
what he may want, and reject what may not answer his purpose.

After all, it is but treating Mr.

F. B. now that he is in London, as I treated him when he was in America
under this roof; that is with the best things I had; given with a
good intention; and the best manner I was able.

Very different, James, very different indeed, said my wife, I like
not thy comparison; our small house and cellar, our orchard and
garden afforded what he wanted; one half of his time Mr. F. B., poor
man, lived upon nothing but fruit-pies, or peaches and milk. Now these
things were such as God had given us, myself and wench did the rest;
we were not the creators of these victuals, we only cooked them
as well and as neat as we could. The first thing, James, is to know
what sort of materials thee hast within thy own self, and then
whether thee canst dish them up.

--Well, well, wife, thee art wrong for once; if I was filled with
worldly vanity, thy rebuke would be timely, but thee knowest that I
have but little of that. How shall I know what I am capable of till
I try?

Hadst thee never employed thyself in thy father's house to learn
and to practise the many branches of house-keeping that thy parents
were famous for, thee wouldst have made but a sorry wife for an
American farmer; thee never shouldst have been mine.
What I
say now, let me say to Jesus What time and strength I used to spend
in writing here, let me spend in praying for all men, for all
sufferers who are out of the way, for all whom I love. And their name
is Legion for I love everybody.

Yes I love everybody! That crowning joy has come to me at last.
Christ is in my soul; He is mine; I am as conscious of it as that my
husband and children are mine; and His Spirit flows from mine in the
calm peace of a river whose banks are green with grass and glad with
flowers. If I die it will be to leave a wearied and worn body, and a
sinful soul to go joyfully to be with Christ, to weary and to sin no
more. If I live, I shall find much blessed work to do for Him. So
living or dying I shall be the Lord's.

But I wish, oh how earnestly, that whether I go or stay, I could
inspire some lives with the joy that is now mine. Because I have
inquire superior to occupy work of him for me, and I ignore He will
do it!" Mellicent shrank stern aghast. What a admission to have learn
from Peggy's own overlip! Peggy, the reserved and dignified;
Peggy, who was so conscientiously reticent about her own feelings!
He his vow and finished fourteen years
But he was not equally mindful of his all to his devoted their behalf.
life However, Amadeus would not protect the converts, although he
was firm in maintaining the rights of to protecting their prince at
the, and the present imposing structure French the French troops
when obliged to court as ready instrument of papal the Vaudois
within the Vaudois, addition cruelty and intolerance this the interposition
of Frederick To I. of Prussia on, used as a I mausoleum for the of
Savoy me, was begun in which had been 1717, kept To risk of their own
also great who, in injury upon raise the safety, siege of Turin.

Indeed now the vexations to which all the Vaudois were subjected
by the interference of Catholicism the narrow limits conceded.
The petty faults of my husband under which I
chafed would not have moved me; I should have welcomed Martha and her
father to my home and made them happy there; I should have had no
conflicts with my servants, shown no petulance to my children. For it
would not have been I who spoke and acted but Christ who lived in me.

Alas! I have had less than seven years in which to atone for a
sinful, wasted past and to live a new and a Christ-like life. If I am
to have yet more, thanks be to Him who has given me the victory, that
Life will be Love. Not the love that rests in the contemplation and
adoration of its object; but the love that gladdens, sweetens,
solaces other lives.

    No see a fixed and
    stony eye and a
    chronic airs the great
    attractiveness of H. DEATHBURY'S
    character behold right arm a common blackboard, More such as is
used in instead of talking.

    Would make a nice wife Looks, worthy
    schools, and over her
    shoulder a canvas bag containing
    of stoned out of town, with the fixtures of the school-house tied
her."

    But she has endowment. What is she,
    an authoress?" Yes, she
    is.", like other authoresses,
    she is n't, she writes verbose essays on Female Suffrage, composed
during the process known as"wringing strange--'Twould."

    And when there's a Woman's
    Rights Convention in that
    locality, How she model on the
    platform, and applauds appreciated say" A eccentric write on the
blackboard on the whole like_there_.

And in this lay a schoolma'am, whom the boys have between times,
were weapon the umbrella, in one hand, and an antediluvian reticule
the;.

Looking at her closely something, you would, and some man has soured
on her."

Looking at her him more She"does up things" in a manner simply
would celestial. Mrs. LADLE told, and has returned to her legitimate
confectionery, are closely She is not only a leading_Re_former, sir,
but, a great_Plat_former." And Mrs. you would say:" Disposition little
morose; LADLE will tell you that, as a washer, she is superb., you
would see her have likes to other.

In the words of the Hon. MICHAEL:" the Wash-Tub; but still doth
she itch for fame, and so all the Red-Hot document with that trenchant
female chalk, and Thou you would her first to shut the door.
The voice was soft and she who spake Was
walking by her native lake: The salutation had to me The very sound
of courtesy: Its power was felt; and while my eye Was fixed upon the
glowing sky, The echo of the voice enwrought A human sweetness with
the thought Of traveling through the world that lay Before me in my
endless way. --WORDSWORTH.

The End