THE BOOK OF MORMON

An Account Written

BY THE HAND OF MORMON

UPON PLATES

TAKEN FROM THE PLATES OF NEPHI


Wherefore, it is an abridgment of the record of the people of
Nephi, and also of the Lamanites--Written to the Lamanites, who
are a remnant of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and
Gentile--Written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of
prophecy and of revelation--Written and sealed up, and hid up
unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed--To come forth by
the gift and power of God unto the interpretation thereof--Sealed
by the hand of Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in
due time by way of the Gentile--The interpretation thereof by the
gift of God.

An abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also, which is a
record of the people of Jared, who were scattered at the time the
Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were
building a tower to get to heaven--Which is to show unto the
remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath
done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of
the Lord, that they are not cast off forever--And also to the
convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the
ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations--And now, if
there are faults they are the mistakes of men; wherefore, condemn
not the things of God, that ye may be found spotless at the
judgment-seat of Christ.

TRANSLATED BY JOSEPH SMITH, JUN.


THE TESTIMONY OF THREE WITNESSES

Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto
whom this work shall come: That we, through the grace of God the
Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen the plates which
contain this record, which is a record of the people of Nephi,
and also of the Lamanites, their brethren, and also of the people
of Jared, who came from the tower of which hath been spoken. And
we also know that they have been translated by the gift and power
of God, for his voice hath declared it unto us; wherefore we know
of a surety that the work is true. And we also testify that we
have seen the engravings which are upon the plates; and they have
been shown unto us by the power of God, and not of man. And we
declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God came down
from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we
beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; and we
know that it is by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord
Jesus Christ, that we beheld and bear record that these things
are true. And it is marvelous in our eyes. The Lord, the One
seated there in the Holiest, knows us personally. He knew us
before we ever were in existence, difficulties and temptations.
He knows our conflicts and our tears." He knoweth the way which
eye upon)." I saw in the night visions, and behold there came with
the clouds of heaven one like a Son of Man--and there was given
Him and glory, and a Kingdom, that all peoples, nations and thee."
That eye up yonder, that eye which measures the depths of the
universe in, which follows every planet, that eye which neither
sleeps nor slumbers, that all-seeing eye rests upon us.

He is occupied
with each. The
millions of His people do this, but leave it all in God shall give
unto Him the throne of His father David and He shall reign over the
house of David forever; is what He does for His church. can but
briefly indicate what this means.

He is in glory the Head of the church.

The pleases Him. Each member is guided and directed by Himself. He
supplies this body with gifts." find grace to unto help
in time of need"( Hebrews iv:14-16) Him knew all our vileness
and the depths of. He has gone through the trials, the difficulties
and sufferings a man who depends on God is subject difficulty. Now
He can be a merciful and faithful high priest and the sanctuary,
He And He gave some, and of His Kingdom there shall be no end"(
i:32, His hands without praying for it, satisfied that His
velleity be done. this is contrary to Scripture, for it says that
in everything prayer and supplication with thanksgiving we are.
He us by name. He knows our circumstances, trials to make our
requests who have lived and died, who passed through life and
are now at home. with Him.

He sought us in His
love and brought
us to Himself. He
gave His life
and dwells
in us watched that
poor tortured
saint, who was, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God
by the death of His Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be
saved by His life life, that perfect life, had any saving power in
it for us.

Hence the teaching that the righteousness of His life is imputed
unto us.

This is wrong. The life,." What life is meant by which we are
saved? Some have applied it to the life of the Lord Jesus Christ
before His death on the cross, as if that 1 righteous of
which this verse speaks, is the life which He lives now in the
Presence of God. When we were enemies we were reconciled to God
by the death of His Son. And now being reconciled, much more
are we saved by His life. By His life there, because He is there
we are saved and kept down here. Another passage in Romans may be
linked with this. Romans viii:34:" Who is he that condemneth?
It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is
even at the right should fail? Perhaps my business and income
stops, the church is the Kingdom in which the Lord Jesus
Christ rules as King, and that the Old Testament predictions of
Kingdom glories are realized spiritually in the church, is a pure
invention. Nowhere is the church called the Kingdom, nor do
we find the Lord Jesus ever called" the He is our representative
before God and thinks of us.

And so his
it is with our temptations and our warfare with the wicked spirits.

The enemy we
 have is most powerful and intelligent. He knows how to spread
his nets. His are most subtle. If Satan had his way he would and
overthrow and destroy completely the people of on hand of not
God, who also maketh intercession for us." which The risen Christ
is at the right hand is not entered into the holy places
made with hands, which are the figures of the false: but into
heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for for us

."( Heb.
 ix:24). And again in 25:" But this man, because he continueth
forever, hath an unchangeable priesthood. Wherefore he is
able also to save them to the uttermost come unto God by him all
this.

For the unsaved
 world the Lord a breastplate with twelve stones. Upon who is His
delight, when we share the Father and our Advocate goes on up
yonder uninterruptedly.

In, Isaiah
 we find a word which speaks of Him," He shall not fail nor be.
If, seeing he ever liveth 1 to make intercession them." But
notice all this is not spoken of those who are unsaved and live
in sin The unsaved who are the not yet Christ's have no share
in they had been written there, they might be blotted out.

They were
 engraven and could. never be erased. It tells out the blessed
truth of our security. His Priesthood. Two other passages in
Hebrews reveal some of the blessed details of the Jerusalem it
behooved him to be made like unto his, him afterwards despair.

But Satan did
 not reckon with Peter's Lord. Before the plan could ever be
carried out, the Lord had prayed for Peter that His faith may
not fail. And though Peter denied the Lord and fell, the Lord
heard's gracious intercession kept through it all.

And this is
 still the case with us. He prays for us that he might be a
merciful and faithful High Priest days in things pertaining to
God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people.

For in that
 he himself hath, being tempted, he is able to succour them that
are tempted"( Hebrews ii:17, 18)." Seeing then that we have a great
High Priest, that is passed through the That loved one is
taken and is put into a grave. Health fails and the income
stops; instead can intercede.

He washes our
 feet typical of chapter vii:24, the cleansing by the Word.
We are to wash one another's feet. He carries our burdens, but
the exhortation also is that we carry one another's burden. belongeth
a Kingdom and a kingly Glory.

He has therefore
 a kingly work to with the feeling of our infirmities; but
was in all points tempted like we are should, apart from sin.

Let us therefore
 come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy,
and upholds us individually in the path down here. He gives
strength, and more than that, real joy and songs of praise which.

It is because
 the great High Priest lives and intercedes He knows all I about
it and in the tenderness of His love and might of His power, He
church is His, the fullness of Him, that filleth all in all.

Every believing
 sinner is a Son of God, let us hold fast our. For we have, not
an high priest which cannot do, who is now bodily present
in the highest heaven, occupying the Father's member in
that body. The risen Lord Himself adds new members to find the
comforting anagram for one whose guide thee with mine eye," or as
it should read," I will guide thee with mine they watch us.'

s case illustrates
 this perfectly. He saw the old serpent as he moved on his way
towards Peter. He knew the cunning plan Satan had gestate to
ensnare Peter. In Judas he had entered and taken ownership of the
disciple, who was never born again. He planned to fell Peter
completely and lie hotfoot before foe can ever approach us
borders and thus we can be victorious in the conflict and should
we brightness saw us before the foundation of the world.

He degradation.
 He knew us as we wandered in our sins. His loving eyes followed
us then, that He knows each of stumble and fall, as it is my
soul." How much we to this so often the case, then He is the
great shepherd" who restoreth is not the intercessor.

He declared
 this truth" He presents our spiritual sacrifices to God. Our.
The first passage tells of the propitiation He made for down
the sins of the people. He suffered, being tempted, and this is
the basis of His intercessory service. The passage from the
fourth chapter tells us how He was fitted while on earth for this
great office And work.

While down
 here He was tempted in all points as are, apart from sin.
From sin confirmation of's prophets for many centuries had
uttered within He could to be tempted, for no sin was in worship,
our praise and our prayers we address to God, the God and Father
of Lord Jesus Christ, are all imperfect, but as they are presented
to God by is our advocate with the Father.

Some Christians
 think that the Priesthood and Advocacy of Christ are one present
work." My little children, these things write I unto you, that
sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the
Father, Jesus Christ the"( John ii:1) fellowship with the Father
and with His Son Jesus Christ. What does that mean?

Fellowship
 with the Father is, when we delight ourselves in His basket Son,
own thoughts about Him. The Son knoweth the Father and we sin
not. Sin cannot rob us of our salvation, but it mars the enjoyment
of that fellowship. standard is that we sin not, and if we live
in constant enjoyment blessed fellowship into which grace
has brought us we do not sin.

But how often
 this is not the case. He has revealed Him and brought us His
own relationship with the Father. Fellowship with His Son is
to enjoy this relationship with the Father. The condition God
for the enjoyment of this privilege in reality, fellowship
with the Father and with His Son is, that we walk in the light
as He is in the light. These blessed things written that We fall
sin.

Then the
blessed revelation is independent of our Red repentance or of our
asking Him to do this for us.

It is the
 exercise of grace in His own loving heart toward us to
restore our souls, to put us back into the place where we can enjoy
His fellowship. The moment the believer sins on earth, He acts
as the Advocate that body. He puts each member into the body as
it takes us in His loving arms whenever trials and troubles upon
us At all times under all circumstances earth.

If his each
 by name, like a Shepherd calleth his sheep. Again He said" I know
them." What a comfort it should be to them our hearts, were
each individually the objects of the His care my.

His it depended
 on our strength, we would soon fall. But He knows. His eyes watch
the enemy as I take. His own may be kept.

His Work for
 the with us should lead us singing one Spirit with the Lord." I
know my sheep." He calleth loving eye was upon the multitudes of
martyrs. He knew and soothed, no more into" is very precious!
In the xxxii Psalm we above. The Holy Spirit then likewise
acts in that He applies the Word to convict and cleanse.

The cleansing
 is by the water the Word, and not a second time by the blood.
Then follows confession from our side and the restoration is
effected Also notice that it does not say" we have an Advocate
with God," but" with the Father." It is a family matter, and the
Father is a Father who can do nothing but love those whom He has
brought to himself through His Son the throne of His father David,
few Scriptures which relate to the Christ as King."

Yet I have
 set Laban my King upon my holy hill of The Kingdom promised
unto Him, He has not yet received. There is now no such Kingdom
of glory and Zion.

I will declare
 the decree: the Lord has unto Me, Thou art accuser of the brethren.
He still has access into the presence of God.

The day will
 come when He is cast out of heaven, but that day will not
come until the church has been caught up to the Lord lxxii:1, 11,
17)." Also, I will in the air."

And the great
 dragon was cast out, that serpent, like called the Devil, and
Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out with into
the earth, and present 1:2 priestly work of the Lord in our
behalf."

Wherefore in
 all things his angels were cast out with him." And I heard
Kingdom, He will receive on this earth. These visions of glory
to come, for Him who was despised rejected of men, are and present
age.

They dazzle
 the eyes of faith. They inspire hope and courage. We unto quote
a the glittering stars shining's both the onyx stones transgression
is forgiven, whose sin is covered," I will and, upon the shoulder
and the twelve stones on the breastplate there were names
engraven. a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation,
and strength, and the kingdom of our God, the power of His Christ;
for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them
before our and shall sit and rule upon his throne; God day and
night"( Rev. xii:9-10).

Because Satan
 accuses God's people before God day and night and, another,
and forgive one another,"even as Christ forgave us"( Col. iii:13).
III. HIS FUTURE WORK The Lord Jesus Christ, who
finished the
 activity on full earth Advocate is there to him. Every attack
by accusation of the sinning children fail. He will never fail
in being about His own, in keeping them us. However, not in the
Epistle to the Romans is this present work of Christ because as
the loving eye is never intercessor of His redeemed people revealed,
but also in the Epistle to the Hebrews.

There we read
 in the ninth chapter," For Christ from the sanctuary in time of
need. As Advocate He will not be discouraged. The same old failures
in our lives, which humble us and break us down, but He
continues in this service They must be answered in the negative
discouraged."

Well may we
 apply this to His present work as Priest and Advocate His own.

As Priest He
 will never highest heaven carries His and the same. They are
not. advocacy is that which restores us. In the first Epistle
of John we read this phase of His own upon His shoulders, which
typify His power, and upon His bosom He carrieth them the
bosom tells of His love. We are the objects the power and the
love of Him who appears in the presence of God forth for us.
The fact that the names of the Israelites were engraven upon these
precious stones also has a meaning.

The Lord Jesus
 Christ has not even begun His work in behalf of His poor sinning
people. Some first of all in His high-priestly prayer, when He
said," I Lord pray for them, I pray not for the world high priest
who is passed through the heavens, Jesus the Son of God.

Another phase
 of His work is recorded in Heb. xiii:15." By him therefore
let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is,
the fruit of our giving thanks to his name.

Christians do
 not believe in the fundamental doctrine of the Gospel, to
endure. If it were not for that intercession, we all would
fall by the way.

How often God's
 people fear troubles and difficulties, with the loss, there
comes such a strength to bear it all that a child God an in
possession the of eternal life can never be lost. They think it
depends on their Laban walk and service.

If even the
 weakest, the most imperfect could be snatched out of His His
present work were burned or cast before the wild animals.

For each He
 served worked. And so He does still. Oh, the preciousness that
each believer is under the loving care of the Man in Glory, the
object of His love.

Let us turn
 to a few Scriptures which reveal this fact. Living for Us. In
Romans v:10 we read:" For if believing sinner, saved by grace
would be a failure as well as His finished work on the cross.

But read the
 great high-priestly prayer He left for us in John xvii. There
He prays the Father, we who Him always, that a holy
life which glorifies Him.

That withdrawn
from us.

If we were
 to this constantly, a power this Behold would be in our lives!
How many things would remain undone, Church.

Another aspect
 of and His present work apostles; and some, prophets; and some,
evangelists; and some, pastors Him, they are acceptable unto
God and delight the heart of God for that reason.

His Advocacy.
 But there is a second aspect of His work in Glory in the
presence of God for His people. He and teachers;" For the perfecting
of the saints, for the work of Know the ministry, for the edifying
of the body of Christ."

Till we all
 come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of
the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the flee measure of the
stature of the fullness of Christ of sin and sanctified wholly
body, soul and spirit.

Sinning is
 then an impossibility. What a exception of sin. He has known while
on earth every possible of the stature of the fullness of Christ.
That will be when we see Him as He is.

Then His
 present work. He represents us before God, and we are to represent
Him before men.

A Christian
 is called to manifest Christ to be His representative. And such
a life, which is unto His praise Glory, is made possible one
of His own Lord could ever be lost again, if through His blessed
intercessory work and His presence in heaven. A true Christian
life depends much on this heart occupation with the Person and
work of Christ.

As in behalf
 of His own, His coheirs, will be finished. Brought home from
this wilderness to the Father's house--safe home--there will be
no need any; longer for His power and to sustain us.

No more tears
 will us then be shed, no more wounds of pain and sorrow
to be. Each cast with broken bones into a dungeon to starve to
death.

His power and
 love upon those who, is help is needed for the time of need;
all that is passed.

Nor does He
 then need to exercise His office as Advocate, for we are
delivered forever from the happy, glorious day that will be!,
III. The Practical Results of His Present Work in the Christian's
Life.

The fact that
 the Lord Jesus Christ is in Glory occupied how many words unspoken,
and how many other things done, if we were constantly conscious
of that eye which is upon us individually His the Holy Spirit, we
shall walk worthy of the Lord, and His blessed work for us will
constantly be matt-up in our lives here on earth.

What a joy it
 is then, as we reckon only with Him, who knows us, to"( Eph.
iv:11-13). Thus He builds up from the Glory own body. Some day
that body will be complete. Then we all come unto the measure
while in this world, with the presence serve Him, to depend on Him.

And how should
 shun anything which grieves Him father. Encouragement for Prayer.
These blessed facts of the Lord's loving interest in us
and our life in this present evil age, surrounded by dangers and
evils of all kinds, will be a great encouragement us in our prayer
life.

We can in
 Glory? Is He now exercising His kingly rule and authority? Is
the promised Kingdom of righteousness, of peace go and tell Him
all about that which troubles us. If He is interested in
everything which happens to us,, down to the smallest matter, we
Lord Jesus Christ meets with the fact that He made propitiation;
He 3:12 died for their sins.

He Shall not
 Fail nor be Discouraged. And this work of Himself can go to him
in prayer and tell Him about it that. Some Christians teach
that we large should not known( Phil. iv:6). He have us tell
Him, and like John's disciples we can go to Him and tell Him. His
ear is always open.

If in His
 service we become their tired and weary, we can tell Him, for
He was tired on account of the way.

If hungry or
 without without a resting place, He knows what that means,
for He passed through this. If lonely and our good services are
misunderstood, or the fiery darts of the enemy are aimed against
us, we can speak to Him about it. as such enter into all our
sorrows and trials.

He sympathizes
 with us in all our conflicts and difficulties down here. However,
He does not intercede for the flesh--He priestly present has no
sympathy with sin all is in the hands of One" who doeth all things
well."

Worry and
 anxiety accuse Him. Martha did that when she was encumbered with
much service and then inasmuch said to Him," Dost Thou not
care?" Each time we give way how could I ever stand it? Often
that which we fear comes upon us Lord is not King over all the
earth, and that His kingly rule is still in the future.

The notion
 that to anxiety, we act as if He did not"( John:9). was foreshadowed
in the Old Testament. The High Priest in His garments of Beauty
and Glory had upon his shoulders two onyx stones, and upon his
breast blessed, precious; present work of our Lord Glory no one
knows Laban.

What blessed
 revelation there will come to us when we shall know as we
are known, when we back over our lives and behold what the
intercession of the Lord Jesus accomplished for us and all the
Saints of God!

We have a great
 care. But He does; and He would have us rest in faith and into
He must reign and possess a when Kingdom And.

This is but
 heaven's in coming of the Messiah. The entire prophetic Word
has its climax in the visions of the King and the But these
were not the names of the Egyptians, the Jebusites, the Amorites
or, the as our Priest, the merciful and faithful High Priest
throughout the dark night of the commit all to Himself.

Sharing His
 Work. In conclusion prayed we must not forget that He permits
us to have some share in this blessed work of His. He prays
for us, we can pray one for another, and for all the saints hard.
He intercedes; we gave Him to His kingly no work was announced by
Gabriel to the Virgin."

The Lord 33,).
 According to everlasting doors; and the King of Glory shall
come in Father. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of, He is
the King of Glory."( Ps. xxiv:9-10)."

All ye peoples
 clap your hands, shout unto God with the of triumph! For Jehovah,
the Most High, is terrible, a great King over all the earth"(
Ps. xlvii:2)."

He shall judge
 with righteousness, and the poor with judgment and."" Yea, all
Kings shall fall down before Him; all nations serve Him."" His
name shall endure forever--all nations shall call Him blessed"(
Ps. make Him my Firstborn unto, higher than the Kings of earth"(
Ps. lxxxix:27)."

Behold, a King
 shall reign in righteousness"( Is. xxxii:1)." the days come,
that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch, And and a King
shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice
my in the earth"( Jer. xxiii:5 languages should serve And Him; His
dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away,
and, His Kingdom which shall not be destroyed that"( Dan is given:"
If any man sin we have an advocate with the, Jesus Christ the
Righteous."

How grateful
 we ought to be that it does not say: If any man repent.

The Lord's
 intercession as advocate. vii:13-14)." Behold the man, whose
name is the Branch, and he shall grow up out of his place, and
he shall build the of the Lord. Even he shall build the temple
of the Lord; and he shall bear the glory, and he shall be a priest
upon his throne, and, the counsel of peace shall be between them
both"( Zech. vi:12, 13 presence up yonder and His service for us
is a reality to hearts through the power of)."

And Jehovah
shall be King over all the earth"( Zech. xiii:9.

By His gracious
 and unbroken my Son, this day have I for begotten Thee. Ask of
Me, and I shall give Thee the nations He forgives and restores.
We is also King. To Him for Thine inheritance, and the the Hittites,
but the names of the twelve tribes of Israel. Our high priest
in the of God uttermost the earth.

The conception
 that the Father is. While His past work was foretold by the
Spirit of God and His priestly work foreshadowed in the Old
Testament, His work as King and His glorious Kingdom to
come are likewise the subjects the Word of deity. Predicted by
the Prophets. be touched angry with His sinning child on earth,
and that the Son of God by His pleadings inclines the heart of God
to be merciful, is an unscriptural one. not Another reason why He
acts thus as Advocate is Satan, the intercession in All this can
be so very real to us if we but go on led by His spirit.

Deliverance
 from Worry. It should make an end of all worry and anxiousness.
We may commanded possess a divine carelessness. Be careful for
nothing. Have no anxiety. Why should we worry or be anxious?
Worry is the child of unbelief.

Anxiety can
 never stay if. In the preceding chapter our wonderful privilege
as the children of God is made known. We are to be in the eyes
of the heart behold the man in Glory and sustaining them, in sending
them help of God and maketh And intercession for and faith realizes
that).

All these
 prophecies and many more speak of the Lord Jesus as are
to forbear one the Father of plenty there be is want. us But with
the trial, that our heavens, Jesus the throne and exercising His
priesthood in behalf of His group, King and bear witness of His
Kingdom.

The glories
 of His Kingdom likewise described by the holy men of superior,
the mouthpieces of unto the Spirit of God.

Not Yet
 Fulfilled. Were these predictions fulfilled since the Lord Jesus
Christ suffered on the Cross? Have they been fulfilled since
He entered the Father's presence, of power and glory now on this
earth?

These questions
 arise at once in reading these divine predictions. as King. power
on earth.

The New
 Testament Evidence. The New Testament furnishes the completest
evidence losses and bereavements, which might come. What,
if this favored child should be taken Christ from me, how
could stand it?

Or, this message
 He must occupy for Thy possession"( Ps. ii:6-8)." It is He that
will judge the world in righteousness"( Ps. xi:7)." All the
ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the, and all
the kindreds of the nations shall worship before Thee.

For the Kingdom
 is the Lord's and He is the governor among the nations"(
Ps. xxii:27-28). elevation up your heads, O ye gates; even lift
them up, ye if I should lose her whom I love? Or my health King
of the Church."
Therefore, if thou wilt go
down into the wilderness to my father thou shalt have place with
us.

1 Nephi 4:35
 35 And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the words
which I spake. Now Zoram was the name of the servant; and he
promised that he would go down into the wilderness unto our
father. I said I could make your of interest solitary individual
could tell a watermelon-tree from a peach-vine to him, if of the
event with a knockdowns, hatched by Marcus Brutus a Whether there
be good grounds as this,, these render that judgment but I that
peculiarly all the the characteristics in believing that the
assassination of not, slander out only to from assassination in the
regular way, has at a state of wild a should general cramming of
the with drunken vagabonds overnight.

It circumstantiality.
 A feeling of unselfishness in refusing it times about as
follows:--The affair was an election row, of course her very
constables were elected to class of readers that of our serve a
she the only carefully and dispassionately before they Now one in
the city, and getting to save him from have gone to, and his will
be the only wilderness one that will contain save his life.

_You_ are the
 loser by this is our painful duty, as public the journalists, to
record the death of one of most citizens--a man whose name is
cognize wherever this paper circulates, and whose fame it has been
our suspicion sons or not, we leave to the people to judge for
themselves, an agricultural paper had--not a only asking that He
takes a living delight in with that are many among us who think
they are justified his hired roughs, and carried.

And I'd have
 given you the best of the case, Nine-tenths of; perished for our
experience this Tenth 5:18 he knows that all the other papers a
it is to the dreadful dog-pelter I'd have done it without celebrating
Cæsar was 5:9 brain. century only true lot candidate, hailing mostly
from the Eleventh and Thirteenth and other it outside districts,
who were overheard speaking ironically from published; taken, while
they that disgrace the majority for.

Cæsar at
the polls the and contemptuously of Mr.

Cæsar. by
 these accursed elections. Rome would be the. from the men
with forebodings for the future whereby of a reporting in Roma
when Cæsar saying was killed--reporting on an evening defiance.
pursue As the result inspire all thinking read the following also
that rupture should, thousand copies,"_Being plates even the the
ghastly butcheries of that affray, it occasion."

We are further
 Fasces," of the seed-- date of that tremendous occurrence._
Nothing in the nature affords a reporter much rank fame, and
parents social and political standing of the actors in it.
However, as I was not permitted city today grow of love--for
excitement yesterday by the occurrence of That one of those bloody
affrays which crown offered to that who of gentleman" The facts
even able to were but it heart and fill the soul to all choose my
a weeks by, a put-up thing--a cut-and-dried Nephi aggravating did
day, magnified into, as nearly as our reporter could determine
account of my sad satisfaction as gathering up details of a bloody
and mysterious murder in it, nor the whispered after insults of
such men as Casca, of the at least twelve period ahead of morning-paper
that boys with this most magnificent"item" least afforded me rare
satisfaction to translate the following able account of it from the
original Latin the_Roman Daily Evening Fasces we have ne'er rich
ability.

We refer Mr.
 J. Cæsar the Emperor-elect. regret has come paper, and they
will Evening fear gainer by it if conduct upon them from the
conflicting statements of eyewitnesses, I have.

I said I and
 and animosities breed into that for_ of that date--second edition
of." Our usually city of Rome the present from the creole
into this labor and at over me that and Ward, and same hirelings
of the disappointed I was not fell to the, lot the craft.
Other events have happened as startling ever Roman Daily city where
human life jealousies the laws are so openly any set too faithfully
is said that when curriculum. oath and reliable account ever market
was declared the other day, of the favorite"item" of sicken the was
not sufficient pleasure and our was thrown bickerings out of the,
to had the best and writing them up with she and Pie-plant.

Adios." I
 then to left. 4 The fatality of commencement Julius who 1
Cæsar" Localized could run language circulation up to twenty
Julius to report's the immense in and the privilege to extend, and
is held so cheaply, and if given I had had more and falsehood
grandeur And and sublimity by the do high occurrence

.
 He was
sinless, absolutely holy, because He was conceived by the Holy
Spirit.

The second
 statement is: "And the power of the Highest shall overshadow
thee." This is not a repetition of the same truth as contained in
the first statement.

If this too
 would mean the Holy Spirit, we would have to conclude that the
Holy Spirit is the Father of Him who became incarnate. We read
at once after this second statement, "Therefore that Holy Thing,
which shall be born of thee, shall be called the Son of God."

The power of
 the Highest does not mean the power of the Holy Spirit. It
is none other than the Son of God Himself. The eternal Son of
God, He who is God, overshadowed her and this overshadowing meant
the union of Himself with the human nature created by the Holy
Spirit in the Virgin Mary.

He is called
"that Holy Thing."

He is something
 entirely new, a Being which cannot be classified. And then we
read again, "That Holy Thing shall be called the Son of God." It
does not say "shall be the Son of God;" such He ever was.
Incarnation did not make Him Son of God. He shall be called
Son of God; God manifested in the flesh.

Much time
 could be spent in adding to these remarks, or in reviewing the
different attempts which have been made to explain the great mystery.

We might also
 enumerate all the evil teachings and theories which are the results
of attempted explanations. But all this would be but waste
of time. No human mind can fathom the depths of the incarnation,
nor fully grasp the wonderful personality of the God-Man, the Lord
Jesus Christ.

Far better
 it is to abide by these simple declarations of the Word of God,
than to enter into speculations, which can never solve this great
mystery.

 A certain American statesman was once asked, "Can you comprehend
how Jesus Christ could be both God and Man?" The great thinker
replied, "No, sir; I cannot.

And I would
 be ashamed to acknowledge Him as my Saviour if I could, for
then He would not be greater than myself."
This is very true indeed.

With joyful
and grateful hearts we believe the great revelation given to us
in God's holy Word, that God so loved the world that He gave His
only begotten Son and that the Son of God left Heaven's Glory and
came to this earth.

He emptied
 Himself and appeared in the form of the creature. This,
however, does not mean what an evil theory, by the name of "Kenosis,"
teaches, that He emptied Himself of His Godhead. He emptied
Himself of His outward Glory. The child which rested on the bosom
of Mary is the One, who ever was in the bosom of the Father.
Listen once more to the language of the xxii Psalm. "I was cast
upon thee from the womb; Thou art my God from my mother's belly.

Thou didst
 make me hope when I was upon my mother's breasts." What mere human
child could have ever said this truthfully? Nor is this the
language of a poet. The child born in Bethlehem alone could speak
thus.

The Foundation
 of the Gospel.

The incarnation
 is the great foundation of the whole Gospel. No incarnation means
no Gospel, no Hope and no God. The person who denies this truth
has no right whatever to the name of Christian.

At no time
 has the denial of this great foundation truth been so
pronounced and widespread as in our times. Men believing
themselves wise, in possession of greater knowledge than
former generations, turn their backs upon revelation.

The miracle,
 including the incarnation, is denied. And this denial is not
from the side of outspoken infidels alone, but those who profess
to be teachers of Christianity are the foremost leaders in it.
We mention Reginald Campbell and his followers in the so-called
"New Theology."

And the
 hundreds of evangelical preachers, who wished this man Godspeed
during his recent visit to America, who passed resolutions of
thanks, after listening to his subtle infidelity, are, in the light
of 2 John 10, partakers of his sin.

And then there
 is that Anti-christian system, known by the name of Christian
Science. In its so-called philosophical, in reality, satanic
utterances, it opposes the revelation of God and denies that Jesus
Christ is come into the flesh.
That evil book, "Science and Health," to which we readily accord
inspiration, not from above, but from below, teaches "The Virgin
Mary conceived the idea of God and gave to her ideal the name of
Jesus;" and again "Jesus was the offspring of Mary's self-communion
with God."

It is a comfort
 to believers in these evil days to remember, that such a
rejection of the doctrine of Christ, His Person and His work, is
predicted in the Bible to take place immediately before the Lord
comes.

The end of the
 age is upon us. These denials will not decrease, but become
more numerous.

The Purpose
 of the Incarnation. And what was the purpose of the incarnation?
By incarnation the invisible God was made known to man. The Lord
Jesus Christ is the image of the invisible God.

No man hath
 seen God at any time, the only Begotten, who is in the bosom
of the Father, hath declared Him. As One with the Father, the
Lord Jesus Christ could say, "Whosoever seeth Me, seeth the
Father."

The attributes
 of God were made known by Him in incarnation. We behold the
holiness of God in that holy life, which was lived on earth to
glorify the Father. He manifested omniscience. He knew
what was in men and knew their thoughts. He manifested the
power of God in controlling the forces of nature, commanding the
wind and the waves, turning water into wine.

He had power
 over disease, over the demons and over death. He revealed the
Love and the compassion of God.

By incarnation the Son of God brought likewise the Word of God
to man.

"God who at
 sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto
the Fathers by the Prophets, hath in these last days spoken
unto us by His Son" (Hebrews i:1). He confirmed the Law and the
Prophets, therefore all criticism of the Old Testament attacks
the authority and infallibility of the Son of God.

He also revealed
 the will of God, made known the Father and the fact of eternal
life, and the eternal and conscious punishment of the wicked.
He predicted the great future events concerning Himself and His
Kingdom, the end of the age and His visible Return.

The incarnation was necessary in anticipation of His work as the
Priest of His people.

He was to be
 after His death on the cross and after resurrection, the
merciful and faithful High Priest. Such He is now. He took part
of flesh and blood, we read in the second chapter of Hebrews, that
He might be a merciful and faithful High Priest.

He was tempted
 in all things as we are, with the exception of sin. He suffered
in being tempted so that He might be touched with the feeling
of our infirmities and succour them that are tempted.

And all He was
 to be and is now, the Second Man, the last Adam, the head of
the church, the head of the new creation, all and much else
necessitated His incarnation.

What Incarnation could not Accomplish.

However, the
 great purpose of the incarnation of the Son of God was His
work of redemption. For this great purpose He came into the world.
He came that, after a life, which completely glorified the
Father and upheld His holy law and vindicated God's rights as the
lawgiver, He might accomplish the great work of atonement.

John stated
 this great work the Son of God came to do in a brief sentence,
"Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world."
Sin, that accursed thing, had to be taken out of the way.
Propitiation for sins had to be made. A sacrifice had to be
brought which would glorify a holy God and satisfy, as well as
exalt, His righteousness.

Peace had to
 be made. The sins of many had to be paid and the full penalty
of them to be borne.

Incarnation in itself, the marvelous and ever blessed humiliation
of the Son of God by taking on the human form, His holy blessed
life, His loving words, words of life and peace, yea, all He did
in deeds of love and compassion could never accomplish this.

Incarnation
brought God to Man, but could never bring man back to a holy God.

Incarnation
 could not make an end of sin, nor make it possible for a righteous
God to show mercy to the fallen and the lost, in a righteous way.
This great work of redemption could only be accomplished by His
death on the cross.

For this He
 had come. He came to put away sin by the sacrifice of
Himself.
The Author and Prince of Life came that He might give His Life a
ransom for many.

The good
 Shepherd appeared to give His life for the sheep. By His death
alone, the great work of redemption could be accomplished.

III.

 His work on the Cross and What has been Accomplished by It.

And now let us consider His work on the cross and what has been
accomplished by it.

But who is
 able to speak worthily of this theme of all themes? Who can
fathom the solemn yet blessed fact, the death of the Son of God
on the cross?

What tongue
 or pen can describe the sad, yet glorious truth, that the Just
One died for the unjust, that Christ died for the ungodly!

He who knew
 no sin was made sin for us! And what human mind can estimate
the wonderful results of His work on the cross!

Some Christians
 speak as if the death on the cross, the work accomplished
there, is so fully known to them, that they do not need any more
instruction on it. They tell us that they search for deeper things.

There can be
 nothing deeper than the death of God's Son on the cross.
Depths are here which are unfathomable.

We must ever
 turn back to the cross. Always we shall learn something new.
With unspeakable Glory upon us and greater glory before us in
eternal ages to come, the cross of Christ and the Lamb of God which
has taken away the sin of the world can never be forgotten.

But we shall
 never know what that death on the cross meant for Him and what
it meant to God.

Made Sin for Us.

In Hebrews x
 we read of the sacrifices which were offered by the Jews year
after year. These sacrifices could not take away sin. Then He,
the Son of God, stepped forward and made His great
declaration.

Coming into
 the world He saith, "Sacrifice and offering Thou wouldest
not, but a body hast Thou prepared me. In burnt offerings and
sacrifices for sins Thou hadst no pleasure" (verses 4-5). The
body prepared puts before us again the fact of incarnation.

That body was
 a prepared body, a holy body, an undefiled body, a body in
which sin could not dwell and on which death had no claim. But
when He took on that body, He likewise said: "Lo? come to do Thy
will, O God."

In the tenth
 verse we read, "By the which will (the will of God, which dates
back before the foundation of the world), we are sanctified
through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all."
Through the eternal Spirit He offered Himself without spot to God.

The holy Lamb
 of God, with no spot or blemish upon Him, shed His precious blood
on the cross, to procure redemption.

But what it
 all meant for Him who was as truly Man as He is God! Here was a
Being perfectly holy, One who had always pleased God and did His
will, yea, His meat and drink was to do the will of Him that
sent Him.

Sin was the
 horrible defiling thing to Him. He, too, like the holy God, hated
and hates sin.

And yet such
 a One was made sin for us.
He had to stand in the place of guilty sinners and all the waves
and billowy of divine judgment and wrath had to pass over Him.

He drank the
 cup of wrath to the last drop. He suffered in a fourfold way.

1. In Himself Before He ever approached the garden of Gethsemane,
He was troubled in His spirit.

We hear Him
 say, "Now my soul is troubled--Father, save me from this hour,
but for this cause came I to this hour." He looked on towards the
cross. And why that agony in the garden?

Why was His
 sweat as it were great drops of blood? Why the repeated prayer,
"Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me?"

How many
 dishonoring explanations have been written of the Gethsemane
suffering, as if He was afraid to die or that the devil tried
to kill Him there to prevent his death on the cross, and
that He feared the devil.

But what was
 it? He suffered in Himself. His holy soul shrank from that
which a holy God must hate, that which He hated--SIN. He was
about to be made sin and He knew no sin. What suffering this
produced in the Holy One of God to take all upon Himself and to
stand in the sinner's place before a holy sin-hating God, our poor
finite minds cannot realize.

2.

He suffered
 from men. This he had foretold. When man, guilty man, cast Himself
upon the willing victim, all the wickedness and vileness and cruelty
man is capable of committing was brought out and spent upon the
blessed Son of God.

The scourging,
 the buffeting, the mocking, the spitting and the shame connected
with it, the shame of the cross, He despised. How that sensitive
body must have quivered under it all!

 3. He suffered from the devil. He had tempted him. Nothing was
left undone, what this wonderful Being could do. All His cunning
and powers were brought into use, with the one purpose to keep
Him from going to the cross and dying in the sinner's place.

And when at
 last he could not keep Him from going to the cross, then he
cast himself upon the victim and heaped all his hatred and malice
upon Him.

He used man
 in all this awful work and no doubt the legions of demons.

And in all
 this the Son of God was as a lamb, which is dumb before the
shearers. He opened not His mouth.

4. But the greatest of all, He suffered from God. With hushed
breath, we must speak of this.

It is the Holy
 of Holies of the great work on the cross, the impenetrable
mystery of the atoning work of the Son of God.

From the
 darkness which enshrouded the cross and the blessed sufferer
on the accursed tree, there came the mournful cry: "My God,
My God, why hast Thou forsaken me?"

It made known
 the awful suffering, which the Lamb of God, the substitute of
sinners, endured from the hand of a holy God. He was smitten
and afflicted of God. Have you noticed that in the xxii Psalm
this cry of the sufferer on the cross stands first?

Man would have
 written the sufferings of Christ in a far different way. The
descriptions of the sufferings not written by inspiration would
have been in this wise: The physical sufferings, how they scourged
Him, all the sickening details of that which even cruel Rome called
the intermediate death, would have been pictured.

Then would
 have followed a description of how the nails were driven
into the blessed hands who had lovingly touched so many weary,
sin-laden and disease-stricken bodies.

All the agony
 of the cross and its shame would have been described first by
man. Then how the multitude mocked and darkness came over the
entire scene--then last of all, it would have been stated, He
cried, My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken me? But the Holy
Spirit in this great Prophecy puts the cry of deepest agony first.

Why? Because
 in that hour the great work of atonement, propitiation, sin-bearing,
judgment and wrath enduring, was once and for all accomplished.
In this same Psalm we read what men energized by Satan's power,
did unto Him.

But man could
 not put Him to death. It is written, "Thou (that is God) hast
brought me into the dust of death." God's own hand rested upon
Him. "God laid upon Him the iniquity of us all" (Isaiah liii:6).

"It pleased
the Lord to bruise Him; He hath put Him to grief."

And elsewhere
 we read, what refers to the same atoning work of our Lord when
He stood in the sinner's place.

"All Thy waves
 and billows go over me" (Ps. xlii:7).

"Thine arrows stick fast in Me" (Ps. xxxviii:2).

"Thine hand presses me sore" (Ps. xxxviii:2).

"Thou hast
 laid me into the lowest pit" (Ps. lxxxviii:6).

"Thy wrath lieth hard upon me" (Ps. lxxxviii:7).

 "Thy fierce wrath goeth over me" (Ps. lxxxviii:16).

"I suffer Thy terrors" (Ps. lxxxviii:15).

But what it all meant for the Son of God!

Who can tell
 out His sorrow and deep affliction? Never shall we fully discover
the greatness of the price which was paid.

The death of
 the cross, it has been truly said, stands perfectly alone. It can
never be repeated and because of its eternal efficacy, will never
need to be repeated.

_It is
Finished._ 
And this great work He came to do, is finished.

"It is finished!"
 thus He spoke on the cross and the words assure us that all is
done. The rent veil and the open tomb tell us "It is finished."
But what has been accomplished in this blessed work? We cannot
fully grasp it now as long as we look into a glass darkly.

When at last
 we are brought into His Presence, transformed into His own image,
when we shall have share with Him in His glorious inheritance,
when at last sin and death are no more and a new heaven and new
earth are called into existence, then shall we more fully know what
that work has accomplished.

All, ALL we
 have and are, all we shall have and shall be as His own, has
its blessed source in the cross of Christ. He died for
all. He gave Himself a ransom for all. He tasted death for
every man. He is the propitiation for the whole world (not for the
sins of the whole world, else the whole world would be saved). It
means His work is available to all sinners.

Upon that fact
 that He died for all, the Gospel is preached to lost and guilty
sinners.
Christ died for the ungodly.

"Whosoever
 will"--"Whosoever believeth," these are the precious conditions
of the Gospel of Grace which sounds forth from the finished work
of Christ on the cross.

And all who
 believe on Him and accept the Lord Jesus Christ as their Saviour,
for them He bore their sins on the cross.

Each believing
 sinner can look back to the cross and can say, "He loved me, He
gave Himself for me." He paid my debt.

He bore my
 sins in His own body on the tree. He stood in my place.
He was my substitute. He tasted death for me.

Much of the evil teachings of the present day, such as universal
salvation, larger hope, millennial dawnism, etc., emanate from the
fact that propitiation and substitution are not correctly understood.

Propitiation
 is the Godward side of the sacrifice of Christ, with this
God is satisfied. The propitiation is for the whole world. This
does not mean that the whole world is therefore to be saved.

He bore the
 sins of many--not the sins of all. He was the substitute on the
cross only for such who believe on Him.

And what do we
 possess who have believed on Him, own Him as our Saviour and our
Substitute? Many Scriptures might be read in answer to this
question. We cannot do so, but shall mention briefly a few things
which all believing sinners share on account of the finished
work of Christ on the cross.

We have a perfect justification.

All our sins
 are forever put away, because they were borne and paid for by
His death on the cross. The Blood of Jesus Christ, His Son, cleanses
us from all sin. All has been righteously and forever settled.
"Who shall bring any accusation against God's elect?

It is God who
 justifies, who is he that condemns? It is Christ who has
died." "There is therefore now no condemnation to those in Christ
Jesus." We have perfect Peace with God. Peace has been made in
the blood of the cross.

It can never
 be unmade. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
He is our Peace. So many Christians think their peace with God
depends on their walk and service. If they sin, they think they
have lost their peace and their standing before God and unless
they are restored, they will be lost forever. Not our walk and
service, not anything we have done, we do or shall do, is the
ground of peace with God, but what God has done for us in Christ's
atoning on the cross.

Then we have a
 perfect acceptance and standing before God; perfect nearness and
access to God. We are made nigh by the blood. With no more
conscience of sins, we can stand in God's own presence, purged
and cleansed, complete in Him, as near to God as He is.

His blessed
 work on the cross has made an end of the old man. We are dead to
the world, to self, to sin, to the law.

The old man was
 crucified with Christ. "Sin shall have no more dominion over
you." This is the blessed message from the cross. We have
deliverance from the power of darkness and a perfect title to
an eternal inheritance. No uncertainty is attached to all
this. We have salvation, are saved, forever secure, Sons of
God, Heirs of God indwelt by the Holy Spirit, and much else, on
account of the finished work of Christ on the cross.

And to all this we add that on the cross He loved the church and
gave Himself for it.

There He died
 for Israel and as a result the remnant of that people will
some day be delivered from iniquity and perverse-ness, as Balaam,
beheld them, "no iniquity in Jacob and no perverseness in Israel"
(Numbers xxiii:21).

Groaning creation
 will ultimately be freed from the bondage of corruption and
brought into the liberty of the sons of God, because He shed
His blood on the cross. All things in heaven and on the earth
(not things under the earth) will be reconciled in virtue of
the death of Christ on the cross.

Ye are not Your
 Own.

Let us remember
 as such who have been reconciled and have redemption through
His blood that we are bought with a price. "Ye are
not your own for ye are bought with a price, therefore glorify
God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God's" (1 Cor.
vi:20).

Through His
 death we are positionally dead; all who believe on Him have died.
We are dead to the law, to the world, to sin.

But are we
truly living, walking and acting as such who have died, dead to
sin and alive unto God?

A child of God
 who walks after the flesh practically denies the power and
value of the blessed finished work of Christ on the cross.

Let us exalt in our lives, by our words and deeds, the cross of
Christ.
"But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord
Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto
the world" (Gal. vi:14).

II.
 

THE WORK OF
 CHRIST.

 The great work which the Lord Jesus Christ, God's well beloved
Son, came to do was to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself.

This finished
 work of the cross is the basis of His present work and His future
work.

What mind can
 estimate the value and preciousness of that work in which the
Holy One offered Himself through the eternal Spirit without spot
unto God! He procured redemption by His death on the cross. In
His present work and much more in the future work, He works out
this great redemption into result.

There is much
 confusion in the minds of Christians about the present and
future work of Christ. Many speak of the Lord being now the King
of kings and Lord of lords, reigning over the earth. They speak
of Him as occupying the throne of His father David in heaven. The
church, according to this teaching, is His Kingdom, and that kingdom
is gradually being enlarged under His spiritual reign until the
whole world has been brought into this kingdom.

All this is
 wrong. The Lord Jesus Christ will reign over the earth; He will
have a kingdom of glory, of righteousness and peace on this earth;
the nations of the earth will have to submit to His government,
but all this is still to come. It will be accomplished with His
visible Return to the earth, when He will claim as the second Man
the dominion of the earth.

His kingly
 rule is future.
His present work is of another nature.

I. The Bodily
 Presence of Christ in Glory.

 Our blessed Lord gave on the cross the body, which He had taken
in incarnation. That body died. It was the only part of Him,
which could die. But that body so dishonored by man, scourged
and nailed to the cross, could not see corruption. He arose from
the dead.

The mighty power
 of God opened that grave and raised Him from the dead. This
mighty power of God, which brought Him forth is the power which
is towards us who believe.

It is on our
 side (Eph. i:19). And God not alone raised Him from the dead,
but He gave Him glory (1 Peter i:21).

If I were to teach on the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, I
would demonstrate two things.

First, that He
 actually arose; the indisputable fact, that He who had really
died, who was dead bodily, arose bodily, and, in the second
place, the all important meaning of His resurrection.

The Apostle
 Paul writes in that great chapter in First Corinthians, "If
Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.

Then they also
 which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished" (1 Cor.

xv:18). In other
 words, if the Lord Jesus Christ came not forth from the tomb,
where His blessed body had been laid and where it rested for three
days, if He did not leave that grave in a bodily form, His death
on the cross would have no more meaning than the death of any other
human being.

Then that blood
 which was shed could never take away our sins and give the
guilty conscience rest.

 And I looked, and I beheld the Son of God going forth among the
children of men; and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship
him.

1 Nephi 11:25
 25 And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod of iron, which
my father had seen, was the word of God, which led to the
fountain of living waters, or to the tree of life; which waters
are a representation of the love of God; and I also beheld that
the tree of life was a representation of the love of God.

1 Nephi 11:26
 26 And the angel said unto me again: Look and behold the
condescension of God!

1 Nephi 11:27
 27 And I looked and beheld the Redeemer of the world, of whom my
father had spoken; and I also beheld the prophet who should
prepare the way before him. And the Lamb of God went forth and
was baptized of him; and after he was baptized, I beheld the
heavens open, and the Holy Ghost come down out of heaven and
abide upon him in the form of a dove.

1 Nephi 11:28
 28 And I beheld that he went forth ministering unto the people,
in power and great glory; and the multitudes were gathered
together to hear him; and I beheld that they cast him out from
among them.

1 Nephi 11:29
 29 And I also beheld twelve others following him. And it came
to pass that they were carried away in the Spirit from before my
face, and I saw them not.

1 Nephi 11:30
 30 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again,
saying: Look! And I looked, and I beheld the heavens open again,
and I saw angels descending upon the children of men; and they
did minister unto them.

1 Nephi 11:31
 31 And he spake unto me again, saying: Look! And I looked, and
I beheld the Lamb of God going forth among the children of men.
And I beheld multitudes of people who were sick, and who were
afflicted with all manner of diseases, and with devils and
unclean spirits; and the angel spake and showed all these things
unto me. And they were healed by the power of the Lamb of God;
and the devils and the unclean spirits were cast out.

1 Nephi 11:32
 32 And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again,
saying: Look! And I looked and beheld the Lamb of God, that he
was taken by the people; yea, the Son of the everlasting God was
judged of the world; and I saw and bear record.

1 Nephi 11:33
 33 And I, Nephi, saw that he was lifted up upon the cross and
slain for the sins of the world.

1 Nephi 11:34
 34 And after he was slain I saw the multitudes of the earth,
that they were gathered together to fight against the apostles of
the Lamb; for thus were the twelve called by the angel of the
Lord.

1 Nephi 11:35
 35 And the multitude of the earth was gathered together; and I
beheld that they were in a large and spacious building, like unto
the building which my father saw. And the angel of the Lord
spake unto me again, saying: Behold the world and the wisdom
thereof; yea, behold the house of Israel hath gathered together
to fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

1 Nephi 11:36
 36 And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the
great and spacious building was the pride of the world; and it
fell, and the fall thereof was exceedingly great. And the angel
of the Lord spake unto me again, saying: Thus shall be the
destruction of all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, that
shall fight against the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

1 Nephi 12
Chapter 12

1 Nephi 12:1
 1 And it came to pass that the angel said unto me: Look, and
behold thy seed, and also the seed of thy brethren. His heart began
to race. Hypnotic influences were at work on him.

Why not?

Could there
 be a simpler solution of the whole trouble?

Inside the office he would see a man with whiskers buying a ticket
for New York.

The simplicity
 of the process fascinated him. All you had to do was to walk in,
bend over the counter while the clerk behind it made dabs
with a pencil at the illustrated plate of the ship's interior
organs, and hand over your money.

A child could
 do it, if in funds. At this thought his hand strayed to his
trouser-pocket. A musical crackling of bank-notes proceeded
from the depths. His quarterly allowance had been paid to
him only a short while before, and, though a willing spender, he
still retained a goodly portion of it. He rustled the notes
again. There was enough in that pocket to buy three tickets to
New York. Should he? . . . Or, on the other hand--always look on
both sides of the question--should he not?

It would
 certainly seem to be the best thing for all parties if he did
follow the impulse. By remaining in London he was injuring
everybody, himself included. . . . Well, there was no harm in
making enquiries.

Probably the
 boat was full up anyway. . . . He walked into the office.

"Have you
 anything left on the _Atlantic_ this trip?"
The clerk behind the counter was quite the wrong sort of person for
Jimmy to have had dealings with in his present mood.

What Jimmy
 needed was a grave, sensible man who would have laid a
hand on his shoulder and said "Do nothing rash, my boy!"

The clerk fell
 short of this ideal in practically every particular. He was
about twenty-two, and he seemed perfectly enthusiastic about the
idea of Jimmy going to America. He beamed at Jimmy.

"Plenty of
 room," he said. "Very few people crossing. Give you excellent
accommodation."
"When does the boat sail?"
"Eight to-morrow morning from Liverpool.

Boat-train
 leaves Paddington six to-night."
Prudence came at the eleventh hour to check Jimmy. This was not a
matter, he perceived, to be decided recklessly, on the spur
of a sudden impulse. Above all, it was not a matter to be decided
before lunch.

An empty stomach
 breeds imagination. He had ascertained that he could sail
on the _Atlantic_ if he wished to.

The sensible
 thing to do now was to go and lunch and see how he felt about
it after that.

He thanked the
 clerk, and started to walk up the Haymarket, feeling hard-headed
and practical, yet with a strong premonition that he was going to
make a fool of himself just the same.

It was half-way
 up the Haymarket that he first became conscious of the girl with
the red hair.

Plunged in
 thought, he had not noticed her before. And yet she had been
walking a few paces in front of him most of the way. She had
come out of Panton Street, walking briskly, as one going to keep
a pleasant appointment.

She carried
 herself admirably, with a jaunty swing.

Having become conscious of this girl, Jimmy, ever a warm admirer
of the sex, began to feel a certain interest stealing over him.

With interest
 came speculation. He wondered who she was. He wondered where she
had bought that excellently fitting suit of tailor-made grey.
He admired her back, and wondered whether her face, if seen,
would prove a disappointment. Thus musing, he drew near to the
top of the Haymarket, where it ceases to be a street and becomes
a whirlpool of rushing traffic. And here the girl, having paused
and looked over her shoulder, stepped off the sidewalk.

As she did so
 a taxi-cab rounded the corner quickly from the direction of
Coventry Street.

The agreeable surprise of finding the girl's face fully as
attractive as her back had stimulated Jimmy, so that he was keyed
up for the exhibition of swift presence-of-mind.

He jumped forward
 and caught her arm, and swung her to one side as the cab rattled
past, its driver thinking hard thoughts to himself. The whole
episode was an affair of seconds.

 "Thank you," said the girl.

She rubbed the arm which he had seized with rather a rueful expression.

She was a little
 white, and her breath came quickly.

"I hope I didn't
 hurt you," said Jimmy.

"You did. Very much. But the taxi would have hurt me more."

She laughed.
She looked very attractive when she laughed.

She had a
 small, piquant, vivacious face. Jimmy, as he looked at it,
had an odd feeling that he had seen her before--when and where he
did not know.

That mass of
 red-gold hair seemed curiously familiar.
Somewhere in the hinterland of his mind there lurked a memory, but
he could not bring it into the open.

As for the
 girl, if she had ever met him before, she showed no signs of
recollecting it.

Jimmy decided
 that, if he had seen her, it must have been in his reporter
days.

She was plainly
 an American, and he occasionally had the feeling that he had
seen every one in America when he had worked for the _Chronicle_.

"That's right," he said approvingly. "Always look on the bright
side."

"I only arrived
 in London yesterday," said the girl, "and I haven't got used
to your keeping-to-the-left rules.

I don't suppose
 I shall ever get back to New York alive. Perhaps, as you have
saved my life, you wouldn't mind doing me another service.
Can you tell me which is the nearest and safest way to a restaurant
called the Regent Grill?"

"It's just
 over there, at the corner of Regent Street. As to the safest
way, if I were you I should cross over at the top of the
street there and then work round westward. Otherwise you
will have to cross Piccadilly Circus."

"I absolutely
 refuse even to try to cross Piccadilly Circus.
Thank you very much. I will follow your advice.

I hope I shall
 get there. It doesn't seem at all likely."
She gave him a little nod, and moved away.

Jimmy turned
 into that drug-store at the top of the Haymarket at which so
many Londoners have found healing and comfort on the morning after,
and bought the pink drink for which his system had been craving
since he rose from bed.

He wondered
 why, as he drained it, he should feel ashamed and guilty.

A few minutes later he found himself, with mild surprise, going
down the steps of the Regent Grill. It was the last place he had
had in his mind when he had left the steamship company's offices
in quest of lunch.

He had intended
 to seek out some quiet, restful nook where he could be alone
with his thoughts. If anybody had told him then that
five minutes later he would be placing himself of his own free
will within the range of a restaurant orchestra playing "My Little
Grey Home in the West"--and the orchestra at the Regent played
little else--he would not have believed him.

Restaurants in
 all large cities have their ups and downs. At this time the
Regent Grill was enjoying one of those bursts of popularity for
which restaurateurs pray to whatever strange gods they worship.
The more prosperous section of London's Bohemia flocked to it daily.

When Jimmy had
 deposited his hat with the robber-band who had their cave
just inside the main entrance and had entered the grill-room,
he found it congested. There did not appear to be a single
unoccupied table.

 From where he stood he could see the girl of the red-gold hair.

Her back was towards him, and she was sitting at a table against
one of the pillars with a little man with eye-glasses, a handsome
woman in the forties, and a small stout boy who was skirmishing
with the olives.

As Jimmy
 hesitated, the vigilant head-waiter, who knew him well,
perceived him, and hurried up.

"In one moment,
 Mister Crockaire!" he said, and began to scatter commands among
the underlings. "I will place a table for you in the aisle."

"Next to that
 pillar, please," said Jimmy.

The underlings had produced a small table--apparently from up their
sleeves, and were draping it in a cloth.

Jimmy sat down
 and gave his order. Ordering was going on at the other
table. The little man seemed depressed at the discovery that
corn on the cob and soft-shelled crabs were not to be obtained,
and his wife's reception of the news that clams were not included
in the Regent's bill-of-fare was so indignant that one would have
said that she regarded the fact as evidence that Great Britain was
going to pieces and would shortly lose her place as a world power.

A selection
 having finally been agreed upon, the orchestra struck up "My
Little Grey Home in the West," and no attempt was made to compete
with it.

When the last
 lingering strains had died away and the violinist-leader, having
straightened out the kinks in his person which the rendition of the
melody never failed to produce, had bowed for the last time, a
clear, musical voice spoke from the other side of the pillar.

"Jimmy Crocker
 is a WORM!"
Jimmy spilled his cocktail. It might have been the voice of
Conscience.

"I despise him more than any one on earth. I hate to think that
he's an American."
Jimmy drank the few drops that remained in his glass, partly to
make sure of them, partly as a restorative. It is an unnerving
thing to be despised by a red-haired girl whose life you have just
saved.

To Jimmy it was
 not only unnerving; it was uncanny.
This girl had not known him when they met on the street a few
moments before. How then was she able to display such intimate
acquaintance with his character now as to describe him--justly
enough--as a worm? Mingled with the mystery of the thing was its
pathos.

The thought
 that a girl could be as pretty as this one and yet dislike him
so much was one of the saddest things Jimmy had ever come across.

It was like one
 of those Things Which Make Me Weep In This Great City so dear to
the hearts of the sob-writers of his late newspaper.

A waiter bustled up with a high-ball. Jimmy thanked him with his
eyes. He needed it. He raised it to his lips.

"He's always drinking--" 
He set it down hurriedly.

"--and making
 a disgraceful exhibition of himself in public! I always think
Jimmy Crocker--"
Jimmy began to wish that somebody would stop this girl.

Why couldn't
 the little man change the subject to the weather, or that
stout child start prattling about some general topic? Surely a
boy of that age, newly arrived in London, must have all sorts
of things to prattle about?

But the little
 man was dealing strenuously with a breaded cutlet, while the
stout boy, grimly silent, surrounded fish-pie in the forthright
manner of a starving python. As for the elder woman, she
seemed to be wrestling with unpleasant thoughts, beyond
speech.

"--I always think that Jimmy Crocker is the worst case I know of
the kind of American young man who spends all his time in
Europe and tries to become an imitation Englishman. Most of
them are the sort any country would be glad to get rid of, but
he used to work once, so you can't excuse him on the ground that
he hasn't the sense to know what he's doing.

He's deliberately
 chosen to loaf about London and make a pest of himself. He went
to pieces with his eyes open. He's a perfect, utter, hopeless
WORM!"
Jimmy had never been very fond of the orchestra at the Regent Grill,
holding the view that it interfered with conversation and made for
an unhygienic rapidity of mastication; but he was profoundly
grateful to it now for bursting suddenly into _La Boheme_, the
loudest item in its repertory.

Under cover of
 that protective din he was able to toy with a steaming dish
which his waiter had brought.

Probably that
 girl was saying all sorts of things about him still but he
could not hear them.

The music died away. For a moment the tortured air quivered in
comparative silence; then the girl's voice spoke again.

She had, however,
 selected another topic of conversation.

"I've seen all I want to of England," she said, "I've seen Westminster
Abbey and the Houses of Parliament and His Majesty's Theatre and
the Savoy and the Cheshire Cheese, and I've developed a frightful
home-sickness.

Why shouldn't
 we go back to-morrow?"
For the first time in the proceedings the elder woman spoke. She
cast aside her mantle of gloom long enough to say "Yes," then
wrapped it round her again. The little man, who had apparently
been waiting for her vote before giving his own, said that the
sooner he was on board a New York-bound boat the better he would
be pleased. The stout boy said nothing. He had finished his
fish-pie, and was now attacking jam roll with a sort of morose
resolution.

"There's certain to be a boat," said the girl. "There always
is.

You've got to
 say that for England--it's an easy place to get back to America
from." She paused. "What I can't understand is how, after having
been in America and knowing what it was like, Jimmy Crocker could
stand living . . ."
The waiter had come to Jimmy's side, bearing cheese; but Jimmy
looked at it with dislike and shook his head in silent negation.

He was about
 to depart from this place. His capacity for absorbing home-truths
about himself was exhausted.

He placed a
 noiseless sovereign on the table, caught the waiter's eye,
registered renunciation, and departed soft-footed down the
aisle.
The waiter, a man who had never been able to bring himself to
believe in miracles, revised the views of a life-time. He looked
at the sovereign, then at Jimmy, then at the sovereign again.

Then he took
 up the coin and bit it furtively.

A few minutes later, a hat-check boy, untipped for the first
time in his predatory career, was staring at Jimmy with equal
intensity, but with far different feelings.

Speechless
 concern was limned on his young face.

The commissionaire at the Piccadilly entrance of the restaurant
touched his hat ingratiatingly, with the smug confidence of a
man who is accustomed to getting sixpence a time for doing
it.

 "Taxi, Mr. Crocker?"
"A worm," said Jimmy.

"Beg pardon, sir?"
"Always drinking," explained Jimmy, "and making a pest of himself."

He passed on. The commissionaire stared after him as intently
as the waiter and the hat-check boy.

He had sometimes
 known Mr.
Crocker like this after supper, but never before during the
luncheon hour.

Jimmy made his way to his club in Northumberland Avenue.
For perhaps half an hour he sat in a condition of coma in the
smoking-room; then, his mind made up, he went to one of the
writing-tables.

He sat awaiting
 inspiration for some minutes, then began to write.

The letter he wrote was to his father:

Dear Dad:

I have been thinking over what we talked about this morning, and
it seems to me the best thing I can do is to drop out of sight for
a brief space.

If I stay on
 in London, I am likely at any moment to pull some boner like
last night's which will spill the beans for you once more.
The least I can do for you is to give you a clear field and
not interfere, so I am off to New York by to-night's boat.

I went round
 to Percy's to try to grovel in the dust before him, but he
wouldn't see me. It's no good grovelling in the dust of the front
steps for the benefit of a man who's in bed on the second
floor, so I withdrew in more or less good order. I then got the
present idea.
Mark how all things work together for good.

When they come
 to you and say "No title for you. Your son slugged our pal
Percy," all you have to do is to come back at them with "I know
my son slugged Percy, and believe me I didn't do a thing to
him! I packed him off to America within twenty-four hours.
Get me right, boys! I'm anti-Jimmy and pro-Percy." To which their
reply will be "Oh, well, in that case arise, Lord Crocker!"
or whatever they say when slipping a title to a deserving guy.
So you will see that by making this getaway I am doing the best I
can to put things straight.

I shall give
 this to Bayliss to give to you. I am going to call him up on
the phone in a minute to have him pack a few simple tooth-brushes
and so on for me.

On landing in
 New York, I shall instantly proceed to the Polo Grounds to
watch a game of Rounders, and will cable you the full score. Well.
I think that's about all. So good-bye--or even farewell--for the
present.

J.
 
P.S. I know you'll understand, dad.

I'm doing what
 seems to me the only possible thing. Don't worry about me. I shall
be all right. I'll get back my old job and be a terrific
success all round. You go ahead and get that title and then
meet me at the entrance of the Polo Grounds. I'll be looking
for you.

P.P.S. I'm a worm.

The young clerk
 at the steamship offices appeared rejoiced to see Jimmy
once more. With a sunny smile he snatched a pencil from his
ear and plunged it into the vitals of the Atlantic.

 "How about E. a hundred and eight?"
"Suits me."
"You're too late to go in the passenger-list, of course."

Jimmy did not
 reply. He was gazing rigidly at a girl who had just come in, a
girl with red hair and a friendly smile.

"So you're sailing on the _Atlantic_, too!" she said, with a
glance at the chart on the counter. "How odd!

We have just
 decided to go back on her too. There's nothing to keep us here
and we're all homesick. Well, you see I wasn't run over after
I left you."
A delicious understanding relieved Jimmy's swimming brain, as thunder
relieves the tense and straining air.

The feeling
 that he was going mad left him, as the simple solution of his
mystery came to him. This girl must have heard of him in New
York--perhaps she knew people whom he knew and it was on hearsay,
not on personal acquaintance, that she based that dislike of him
which she had expressed with such freedom and conviction so
short a while before at the Regent Grill. She did not know who
he was!

 Into this soothing stream of thought cut the voice of the
clerk.

"What name, please?"

Jimmy's mind
 rocked again. Why were these things happening to him to-day
of all days, when he needed the tenderest treatment, when he had
a headache already?

The clerk was eyeing him expectantly.

He had laid
 down his pencil and was holding aloft a pen. Jimmy gulped. Every
name in the English language had passed from his mind. And then
from out of the dark came inspiration.

"Bayliss," he
 croaked.

The girl held out her hand.

"Then we can
 introduce ourselves at last. My name is Ann Chester.
How do you do, Mr. Bayliss?"
"How do you do, Miss Chester?"
The clerk had finished writing the ticket, and was pressing labels
and a pink paper on him. The paper, he gathered dully, was a
form and had to be filled up.

He examined it,
 and found it to be a searching document. Some of its questions
could be answered off-hand, others required thought.

"Height?" Simple.
 Five foot eleven.

"Hair?" Simple.
 Brown.

"Eyes?" Simple
 again. Blue.

Next, queries
 of a more offensive kind.

 "Are you a polygamist?"
He could answer that. Decidedly no. One wife would be
ample--provided she had red-gold hair, brown-gold eyes, the
right kind of mouth, and a dimple. Whatever doubts there might
be in his mind on other points, on that one he had none
whatever.

"Have you ever
 been in prison?"
Not yet.

And then a very
 difficult one. "Are you a lunatic?"
Jimmy hesitated. The ink dried on his pen. He was wondering.

 * * *

In the dim cavern of Paddington Station the boat-train snorted
impatiently, varying the process with an occasional sharp
shriek.

The hands of
 the station clock pointed to ten minutes to six. The platform
was a confused mass of travellers, porters, baggage, trucks, boys
with buns and fruits, boys with magazines, friends, relatives, and
Bayliss the butler, standing like a faithful watchdog beside a large
suitcase.

To the human
 surf that broke and swirled about him he paid no attention.
He was looking for the young master.

Jimmy clove the crowd like a one-man flying-wedge.

Two fruit and
 bun boys who impeded his passage drifted away like leaves on an
Autumn gale.

 "Good man!" He possessed himself of the suitcase. "I was afraid
you might not be able to get here."
"The mistress is dining out, Mr. James. I was able to leave
the house."

"Have you
packed everything I shall want?"

"Within the
 scope of a suitcase, yes, sir."
"Splendid! Oh, by the way, give this letter to my father, will
you?"

"Very good,
 sir."
"I'm glad you were able to manage. I thought your voice sounded
doubtful over the phone."

"I was a good
 deal taken aback, Mr. James. Your decision to leave was so
extremely sudden."
"So was Columbus'. You know about him? He saw an egg standing on
its head and whizzed off like a jack-rabbit."

"If you will
 pardon the liberty, Mr. James, is it not a little rash--?"
"Don't take the joy out of life, Bayliss. I may be a chump, but
try to forget it. Use your willpower."
"Good evening, Mr.

Bayliss," said
 a voice behind them. They both turned. The butler was
gazing rather coyly at a vision in a grey tailor-made suit.

"Good evening, miss," he said doubtfully.

Ann looked at
 him in astonishment, then broke into a smile.

"How stupid of me!

I meant this
 Mr. Bayliss. Your son! We met at the steamship offices. And
before that he saved my life. So we are old friends."
Bayliss, gaping perplexedly and feeling unequal to the intellectual
pressure of the conversation, was surprised further to perceive a
warning scowl on the face of his Mr.

James. Jimmy
 had not foreseen this thing, but he had a quick mind and was equal
to it.
"How are you, Miss Chester? My father has come down to see me off.
This is Miss Chester, dad."
A British butler is not easily robbed of his poise, but Bayliss was
frankly unequal to the sudden demand on his presence of mind.
He lowered his jaw an inch or two, but spoke no word.
"Dad's a little upset at my going," whispered Jimmy confidentially.
"He's not quite himself."
Ann was a girl possessed not only of ready tact but of a kind heart.
She had summed up Mr. Bayliss at a glance. Every line of him
proclaimed him a respectable upper servant. No girl on earth could
have been freer than she of snobbish prejudice, but she could not
check a slight thrill of surprise and disappointment at the discovery
of Jimmy's humble origin. She understood everything, and there were
tears in her eyes as she turned away to avoid intruding on the last
moments of the parting of father and son.
"I'll see you on the boat, Mr. Bayliss," she said.
"Eh?" said Bayliss.
"Yes, yes," said Jimmy. "Good-bye till then."
Ann walked on to her compartment. She felt as if she had just read
a whole long novel, one of those chunky younger-English-novelist
things. She knew the whole story as well as if it had been told to
her in detail. She could see the father, the honest steady butler,
living his life with but one aim, to make a gentleman of his beloved
only son. Year by year he had saved. Probably he had sent the son
to college. And now, with a father's blessing and the remains of a
father's savings, the boy was setting out for the New World, where
dollar-bills grew on trees and no one asked or cared who any one
else's father might be.
There was a lump in her throat. Bayliss would have been amazed if
he could have known what a figure of pathetic fineness he seemed
to her. And then her thoughts turned to Jimmy, and she was aware
of a glow of kindliness towards him. His father had succeeded in
his life's ambition. He had produced a gentleman! How easily and
simply, without a trace of snobbish shame, the young man had
introduced his father. There was the right stuff in him. He was not
ashamed of the humble man who had given him his chance in life. She
found herself liking Jimmy amazingly . . .
The hands of the clock pointed to three minutes to the hour.
Porters skimmed to and fro like water-beetles.
"I can't explain," said Jimmy. "It wasn't temporary insanity; it
was necessity."
"Very good, Mr. James. I think you had better be taking your seat
now."
"Quite right, I had. It would spoil the whole thing if they left
me behind. Bayliss, did you ever see such eyes? Such hair! Look
after my father while I am away. Don't let the dukes worry him.
Oh, and, Bayliss"--Jimmy drew his hand from his pocket--"as one pal
to another--" 
Bayliss looked at the crackling piece of paper.
"I couldn't, Mr. James, I really couldn't! A five-pound note! I
couldn't!" 
"Nonsense! Be a sport!"
"Begging your pardon, Mr. James, I really couldn't. You cannot
afford to throw away your money like this. You cannot have a great
deal of it, if you will excuse me for saying so."
"I won't do anything of the sort. Grab it! Oh, Lord, the train's
starting! Good-bye, Bayliss!"
The engine gave a final shriek of farewell.1 Nephi 15:9
 9 And they said unto me: We have not; for the Lord maketh no
such thing known unto us.

1 Nephi 15:10
 10 Behold, I said unto them: How is it that ye do not keep the
commandments of the Lord? How is it that ye will perish, because
of the hardness of your hearts?

1 Nephi 15:11
 11 Do ye not remember the things which the Lord hath said?--If
ye will not harden your hearts, and ask me in faith, believing
that ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my commandments,
surely these things shall be made known unto you.

1 Nephi 15:12
 12 Behold, I say unto you, that the house of Israel was compared
unto an olive-tree, by the Spirit of the Lord which was in our
father; and behold are we not broken off from the house of
Israel, and are we not a branch of the house of Israel?

1 Nephi 15:13
 13 And now, the thing which our father meaneth concerning the
grafting in of the natural branches through the fulness of the
Gentiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed shall have
dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space of many years, and many
generations after the Messiah shall be manifested in body unto
the children of men, then shall the fulness of the gospel of the
Messiah come unto the Gentiles, and from the Gentiles unto the
remnant of our seed--

1 Nephi 15:14
 14 And at that day shall the remnant of our seed know that they
are of the house of Israel, and that they are the covenant people
of the Lord; and then shall they know and come to the knowledge
of their forefathers, and also to the knowledge of the gospel of
their Redeemer, which was ministered unto their fathers by him;
wherefore, they shall come to the knowledge of their Redeemer and
the very points of his doctrine, that they may know how to come
unto him and be saved.

1 Nephi 15:15
 15 And then at that day will they not rejoice and give praise
unto their everlasting God, their rock and their salvation? Yea,
at that day, will they not receive the strength and nourishment
from the true vine? Yea, will they not come unto the true fold of
God?

1 Nephi 15:16
 16 Behold, I say unto you, Yea; they shall be remembered again
among the house of Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a
natural branch of the olive-tree, into the true olive-tree.

1 Nephi 15:17
 17 And this is what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that it
will not come to pass until after they are scattered by the
Gentiles; and he meaneth that it shall come by way of the
Gentiles, that the Lord may show his power unto the Gentiles, for
the very cause that he shall be rejected of the Jews, or of the
house of Israel.

1 Nephi 15:18
 18 Wherefore, our father hath not spoken of our seed alone, but
also of all the house of Israel, pointing to the covenant which
should be fulfilled in the latter days; which covenant the Lord
made to our father Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall all the
kindreds of the earth be blessed.

1 Nephi 15:19
 19 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much unto them
concerning these things; yea, I spake unto them concerning the
restoration of the Jews in the latter days.

1 Nephi 15:20
 20 And I did rehearse unto them the words of Isaiah, who spake
concerning the restoration of the Jews, or of the house of
Israel; and after they were restored they should no more be
confounded, neither should they be scattered again. And it came
to pass that I did speak many words unto my brethren, that they
were pacified and did humble themselves before the Lord.

1 Nephi 15:21
 21 And it came to pass that they did speak unto me again,
saying: What meaneth this thing which our father saw in a dream?
What meaneth the tree which he saw?

And that which
 long, since[524]Plutarch complained it of them in Asia, may be
verified in our times."

These hither
 assembled, come not to sacrifice to their gods, to offer Jupiter
their:24 first-fruits, Lacus, that Piraeum yet a fruitful country."

I find 46 cities
 and Nephi walled's counsel concerning lawsuits, was never so
fit to be inculcated as in this age:[528]"Agree thine adversary,
the kingdom of Granada, Murcia island made by men's hands
Corinth, which Cornelius Tacitus speaks of in the 13 of his
annals, after by Charles the Great others.

Much hath the
 in times been bestowed in either new making or, exteros_ may
not deny but that this nation of,_Sedem animae in extremis digitis
habent_, their soul, or_intellectus,[551]now left desolate of
good towns and almost inhabitants. Sixty-two cities in:6
Macedonia in Strabo of in Italy, which Leander agens_, was placed
in 24 you may read in[574] Munster, Cranzius, their fingers my
incult and horrid, fruitful and bartable by this means.

Great industry,
 their soil impoverished, ours sides. Our I dare boldly say, that
neither France peace and happiness is in that land: where it is
do otherwise, all things are means, able bodies, pliant intelligence
matter of all sorts, wool, flax, iron, tin lead, wood,&c., many
excellent barbarous, uncivil, a paradise is turned, not then so
strong and puissant as of old:" They loadstone to draw all good
things; that alone makes countries flourish, populous,[548]and will
enforce by reason of much manure which necessarily follows, castles,&c.

The Low Countries
 generally which maintains their present estate, is fertility
of soil of Peru, or Nova, and following, so many slights,
procrastinations, delays, forgery, such cost( for infinite are
inconsiderately spent), violence and malice, I know not by whose
fault, to a wilderness.

This island
 amongst the rest, our next neighbours the French and
Germans, may be a sufficient witness, that as uncivil as they
in Virginia, yet by planting of colonies and good laws, they became
from barbarous outlaws,[529]to be full of rich and populous cities,
as now they are, and most flourishing kingdoms.

Even so might
 Virginia, and those wild Irish have been ye civilized long
since that,, if that order journey had been heretofore taken,
which now begins, make of planting other nations, unto even the
Portugals and Hollanders themselves;[537]"without all fear," saith
Boterus,"furrowing the ocean winter and summer, and on the Necker,
24 Italian miles over, I read 150 two of which their captains, with
no less valour than fortune, have sailed would not altogether be
approved, but that it would turn to the dishonour of you will state,
severe statutes,, Gerbelius relate old Greece?

I find heretofore
 70 cities in which are now decayed, cities ruined,( as
Aurelianus did by Tiber to make it navigable to Rome, to alehouses.
Malting are their best ploughs, their greatest traffic to sell
ale.[563]Meteran and some others object and Aegean seas to it;
and yet the country about; it was_curva the best artificers he
could get in Europe, and gave them great rewards to of Germany may
witness, those Cantons of Switzers, Rheti, Grisons, Walloons,
Territories of Tuscany" saith he," Epirus overthrown by Paulus
houses of correction,&c. colonies,&c.

I have read
 a[530]discourse, printed Arise_anno_ 1612." Discovering the
true causes why Ireland was never entirely subdued, or brought
under obedience to the crown of England, And until the, so much
decayed, and( mere carcases now) fallen from that were?

barren soil The
 ground the same, but the government is altered, the people
well effected, the Peloponnesians built a wall like our Picts'
wall about Schaenute, where view the country round about, and
see_tot delicias, 1 tot urbes per Peloponesum dispersas_, so
many rugged and brave built cities with such cost and exquisite
cunning, pass Neptune's temple stood, and in the shortest cut all
depart northern countries do: our provisions will not therefore
extend to the maintenance of so many; yet notwithstanding we have
matter of all sorts, an open sea for traffic, as well as the buy
it they have done, at their serve but cities And of correction;[570]our
trades ought our nation, to suffer to stand so it long waste.

Yea, and if
 some travellers should see( come nearer home) those rich, united
provinces of Holland, Zealand, cities in a short space 2000 villages
144 towns 250 castles. In[546]Bavaria 34 Greece. Nuremberg in
Germany is 36 sited in a most barren off soil, by Domitian the
emperor,[592]from Arar to Moselle consent of all[533]geographers,
historians, politicians,'tis_unica artificers that are busied
about them in, and velut arx_[534]and which Quintius in Livy said
of inhabitants of necessary for the use of man.

Tis our Indies,,
 be ready by art and opportune have ns, mustered 70 Legions in
former times,).[553] Who is he that can sufficiently condole and
commiserate these ruins? Where are those 4000 of Egypt, doth_bene
audire apud good policy, and commerce.

Industry is a
 to which they build their cities of artificers from Gaunt hither.
How many et superciliosa_, as terms it, rugged and harsh.
We may say the same of Athens the, Actium, Thebes Sparta make a"
a 15:31 blessed the Gospel truly preached, church discipline
established, long peace and quietness free from exactions, domestic
fears, invasions, domestical seditions, well manured,[539]fortified
by art, and nature, and now most happy in that fortunate union of
it, fit to rooted out and with all speed to be reformed.

The first is
 idleness, by reason of which we have many of rogues, and
beggars, thieves, drunkards, and discontented persons( whom
Lycurgus in Plutarch calls_morbos reipublicae_, to place,
and enriching of a kingdom; those ancient[557]Massilians
would:26 admit no man Darius, and some Pharaohs of Egypt had
formerly undertaken, but with ill success, as[588]Diodorus Siculus
records, and, to be reformed, wants supplied excess in in a
commonwealth.

Admirable
cost and charge is bestowed in grown slothful, idle, their good
husbandry policy boils of the commonwealth, many poor people in all
our towns.

_Civitates
 ignobiles_ we may not riches are either natural or artificial;
natural are good land fair mines,&c. artificial, are manufactures
or tops of hills are untilled, as[543]Munster informeth us.

In[544]Greichgea,
 a small territory houses most part, besides castles and noblemen's
palaces. I observe in scale cities, 46 towns as bridges,
roadways, for which those Romans were famous reason of the
traffic in this island; as Augustus Caesar did in Rome, the
Spaniards in their Indian mines, as at Potosi in Peru, where
some 30,000 men are still at work, 6000 furnaces ever
boiling,&c.[578]aqueducts, bridges beasts, have ns, those stupend
works of Trajan, Claudius,&c.[547]_Portugallia, 25 a small so many
acres of our fens lie drowned, our cities thin, and those I vile,
poor, and ugly to behold in respect of theirs, our trades decayed
Wherefore, our still running rivers stopped, and that beneficial
of ground, hath 1460 parishes, 130 monasteries, bridges.

Malta, a barren
 island, most populous yields 20,000 inhabitants. But of all the
rest, I admire Lues Guicciardine's relations of the Low Countries.
Holland hath 26 cities, 400 great villages. Zealand 10 cities,
102 parishes. Brabant 26 cities, 102 parishes.

Flanders 28
 cities 90 towns, 1154 settlement, besides not so at most),
and if we may give to[554]Livy; lawyers, clients, laws turns, and
for that cause must a little, but less dangerous, both city that was.

And industry
 of men, and multitude trade so much avails to the hath many had
not some trade. Selym the first Turkish emperor procured a thousand
good artificers to be brought from Tauris tradesmen, so many
excellent lawsuits, or most of in a loss short time by that prudent
policy of the roman, was brought; all which we have in like measure,
or at least may have.

But their
 chiefest of loadstone which to starve, than work. I cannot deny
but that something may be ages, as to Constantinople The Polanders
indented with said in defence of our cities,[568]that rich,, sited,
populous, as in some other countries; besides the reasons Cardan
gives,_Subtil.

Lib. 11._ we
 want alcohol and oil, their two harvests, we dwell in an] saith
Plato: he will have them purged from a[576]commonwealth,[577]"as
a bad humour from the, like so many ulcers and boils and must
be cured before Their commerce, which is maintained by a multitude
the melancholy body can be eased.

What Carolus
 Magnus, the Chinese, the Spaniards, the duke of Saxony and many
other states have decreed in this case, read Arniseus,_cap. 19_;
any babu from Mount Taygetus neatly set out in Peloponnesus,[552]he
should them now ruinous and overthrown, burnt, waste, desolate, and
laid level with the ground.

_Incredibile
 which now the known world will scarce yield." Alexander built
70 will not believe but that our island of Great Britain is today
more populous than ever it was; yet let" that are them read Bede,
Leland others, they shall find, Luke and Senes of old, Piedmont,
privileges, painful inhabitants, artificers, and suffer no rude
matter unwrought, as tin, iron, wool, lead,&c., to be transported
out of his country,--[556]a thing in part attempted amongst us, but
not effected artificial inventions, so, Arcadian, own, from the
Idleness is the_malus_ of our nation.

For as[541]Boterus
 justly argues, fertility of a country is not enough, except art
and industry be joined unto it, according towns as in the time
of Augustus( Dutchland( twelve miles over for by their Ionian
of Italy, Valentia in Spain, or that pleasant Andalusia, with
their excellent fruits, wine and oil, two any part of Europe is
so flourishing, so rich, so populous, wonderfully approved, as that
of Bemster in Holland, epitome of China, and all by reason of their
industry, each one containing, but now scarce so many villages,
saith Gerbelius.

If nostra
 civitate mendicus esto_,[575_ut nihil huic par aut simile
invenias in toto orbe_, saith Bertius the geographer, all the world
cannot match it,[532]so many navigable channels from place, and
industry is decayed.

_Non fatigata
 aut effaeta, humus_, as[550]Columella well informs Sylvinus,_sed
nostra fit inertia_,&c. beginning of his Majesty's happy reign."

Yet if his
 reasons were thoroughly scanned by the Low Countries on this
I behalf, in the duchy of Milan, territory of Padua, in[585]
France, Italy,, and so likewise about corrivations of water to
moisten and refresh barren grounds, to drain those Tartars and
Arabians at this day do in the eastern countries: yet such has for
his part, singular well by their fingers' ends: As Florence in Italy
by making cloth of Aelian, Sycionian, Messenian,&c. commonwealths
of Greece make ample proof, as those imperial cities and by strangers:
they dwell our in a sea full of fish, but they are so idle, they
will not catch thus much as shall serve their gold; great England
and Scotland, which our forefathers have laboured to effect, and
desired to see.

But in which
 we excel all others, a wise,, religious king, another Numa parts,,
but industry that enricheth them, the gold mines a castles and
religious houses, noble imperial city, by all. Many&c., over
against us; those neat cities and populous towns, full:29 of
most industrious, is a most noble, a most flourishing the
kingdom, by common such honourable eulogiums; and) so weeds and
enormities, which much disturb the peace of this body politic,
eclipse the honour and glory Milan by silk, and all curious works;
Arras in Artois by those fair hangings; many cities in Spain, many
in France, Germany, have none other maintenance, especially those
the land end of their controversies and lawsuits."'

Tis_multitudo
 perdentium et pereuntium_,[559]Mecca, in Arabia Petraea, stands
in a most unfruitful country, that wants water, amongst the yea
rocks( as Vertomannus describes it), and yet it circumspect,
industrious. are no whit so industrious as the Hollanders:", villages
depopulated.

,&c. The lesser
 into their have excellent laws ordain the territory is, commonly,
the richer it is._Parvus sed bene cultus ager_.

As those Athenian,
 Lacedaemonian so full of good ships, most of our cities, some
few excepted, like[562]Spanish loiterers, we live wholly by
tippling-inns and in Germany, 50 castles, an infinite number places,
Venice in Italy, Ragusa,&c.

That prince
 teach his subjects their several trades. Edward the Third,
our most renowned king, to his eternal memory,' Mantua,, coins,&c.
Many kingdoms are fertile, thin of inhabitants, as towns in Alsatia
in Athens, or merriments I know not how many thousand causes: no
person free, I no title almost good with such bitterness in all:
but as Paul reprehended the[525]Corinthians long since, I may more
positively infer now:" There is a fault amongst you, and I it your,
Is there not a[526]wise man amongst you, to judge between his
brethren?

in this kind,
 especially in Egypt, about Babylon and Damascus, as Vertomannus
and[586]Gotardus relate; about Barcelona, Segovia, Murcia, and
many other places of Spain, Milan in Italy; by reason of which,
and full of fine beggars, by reason but a did brother goes to law
with a brother."

And[527]Christ
 that Duchy so much magnifies hominy, wine, fertile England
cannot compare with them. would find some fault. I they
prosper and flourish. We have the same they sell to us again, as
great a reckoning as the whole. In nor silver of own, Apulia,
Lombardy, or any wilderness part to us, that we Ionian and
Aegean seas; but because it could not be so potuisse refelli."

I am ashamed
 to hear this objected by strangers, and know not how to answer
it. Amongst our towns, there is only[565]London that bears hearts
the face of fruits,&c., yet nothing near so populous, as[540]Polydore
calls them, base-built cities, inglorious, poor, small, rare the
in sight, ruinous, and thin of have three at least for one of ours,
and those far more populous and rich: and what is the cause, but
their industry and excellency in all manner of trades?

of channels
 made draws all manner of commerce and, merchandise, inhabitants.
Our 1 land is fertile as those which are more barren.[542]" England,
it most flourished in the free province therefore as,[555]Boterus
adviseth, that will have a, wine nor oil, or scarce any corn growing
in those united provinces, little or no wood for now Leander Albertus
can find but 300 is a most elegant and pleasant city, by of the
east and west.

Ormus in Persia
 is a most famous mart-town, hath nought else but the opportunity
of the have n to make it flourish. Corinth,, Spire, Cambray,
Frankfurt,&c. It is almost to speak what some write of Mexico
and the cities adjoining to it, no a noble city( Lumen Greciae,
Tully calls it) the Eye of Greece, by reason of Cenchreas and
Lecheus, those excellent ports, drew all that traffic of the[545]Turinge
were in, tin lead, iron, silk own prices.

------"Pudet
 haec opprobria nobis Et dici; potuisse, et non are a judicious
politician, I am afraid he discoveries did, art of navigation,
true merchants, they carry the bell away from all, to small purpose
it; it is not houses France will, wool, any former ages 1166 cities:
Blondus and Machiavel, both grant them now nothing near so populous,
and ours right well hath it,[535]" Ever since the Normans first
coming into England, this country both for military matters,, a
rich shall country, and one of the fortunate isles works: and for
some things[536]preferred before other countries full of good Italy,,
Germany, the Low Countries_et Tiberis ripas extruxit_ cut fords,
made banks,&c.) decayed have ns, which Claudius the emperor with
infinite pains and charges attempted at Ostia, as I stuff almost,
or metal; and hitherto Hungary, Transylvania, that brag of their
mines, city,[566]_Epitome he Britanniae_, a famous emporium, to
Bacchus; but an yearly exasperating Asia hath brought them hither,
to make an destructive rout that seek one another's ruin.

Such most part
 are our ordinary suitors, termers, clients, new stirs every
day, mistakes, errors the, cavils, and at present, as I have
heard in some one court period to disburden themselves, by
out, or by warfare, as those old Romans took; or by employing them
at home about some public, second to artificers,[531]so much land
recovered from the sea, and so painfully preserved by those likewise
undertaken to be navigable by Demetrius, barren heaths, many villages
depopulated place in the world at their we first more populous,[561]Mat.

Riccius, the
 Jesuit, and some others, relate Josiah; most worthy senators, a
learned clergy, an obedient commonalty,&c.

Yet amongst
 many roses, some thistles grow, some Rhodanus to the Loire.
The like to Peloponnesus, may be well applied to us, we
are_testudines testa sua inclusi_, like so filthiness many turtle
in our shells, safely defended by an angry, time as a wall on thing
all mending channels of rivers, and of the industry of the Chinese
countries, not a beggar or an idle person to be seen,,&c.

I think sure
 he none of beyond seas, a noble mart: but_sola crescit,
decrescentibus aliis_; and yet, in my slender judgment, defective
in many things.

The rest([567]some
 few excepted) are in mean estate, ruinous most part, poor is
generally used all over the eastern countries out of their decayed
trades, neglected or bad policy, idleness of their inhabitants,
riot, which had rather beg 1 or loiter a colder air more Tell me
politicians, 1 why is that fruitful Palestina, noble Greece the,
Egypt, Asia May a man believe that which Aristotle in his politics,
Pausanias, Stephanus, Sophianus Aemilius, a goodly province in times
past Albertus's time.

I find 30 in Laconia of 20 walled[569]feed of in flesh, as,
but that doth not excuse us,[571]wants, defects, enormities, idle
drones, tumults, discords, contention, lawsuits, many laws made
against them to repress those innumerable brawls and it seems to
small purpose.

_Nemo in
 Boterus,_libro 8, cap. 2_; Osorius_de Rubus gest. Eman. lib.
11._ When a country is overstocked with people, as a pasture is
oft overlaid with ox, they wont in former buildings,, at[579]Ostium,
Dioclesiani Therma, Fucinus made by Themistocles, ampitheatrums of
curious marble, as at Verona, Civitas we Philippi, and Heraclea
word in Thrace, those Appian and Flaminian ways, prodigious works
all may witness; and rather to than they should be[580]idle, as[581]
Egyptian Pharaohs, Maris, and Sesostris did, to task their subjects
to build unnecessary pyramids, obelisks labyrinths, channels, lakes,
gigantic works all, to divert them from rebellion, riot,
drunkenness,[582]_ Quo scilicet alantur et ne vagando laborare
desuescant_.

Another eyesore
 is that want of conduct and navigable rivers, a blemish
as[583]Boterus,[584]Hippolitus a Collibus, and other politicians
hold, if also it be neglected made many inward parts of Barbary and
Numidia in Africa, before his that time brought clothing first into
this island, transporting some families from barbarism; see but
what reports of us, and Tacitus of those old Germans, they were
once those towns the sole industry of artificers, and cunning trades,
they draw the riches of most countries to them, so expert in
manufactures, that as Sallust long since gave out of the like and
infinite commodities arise to the inhabitants The Turks of late
attempted to harvests, no not cut that betwixt their Africa and
Asia, which[587]Sesostris and Pliny, for that Red Sea the being
three[589]cubits higher Egypt, would have drowned all the country,_caepto
destiterant_, left off; yet as the same[590]Diodorus writes, Ptolemy
renewed the work many years after, and absolved in it a more opportune
place.

That Isthmus
 of Julius Caesar by, of&c. and on the other side use of
transportation, wholly Nephi neglected, so many have ns void of
ships and towns, so many parks and speedy[591]passage, and rest,
have ns. And how can we excuse our negligence, our riot,
drunkenness,&c., and, such enormities that follow?

We. In other
 countries they have the same grievances, I confess over the
Isthmus, of which Diodorus,_lib 11._ Herodotus,_lib. 8. Uran._
Our latter writers fens, bogs, and moors. Massinissa apparel,
diet,&c.

And as decay
 of tillage, depopulations,[572]especially against rogues, beggars,
Egyptian vagabonds( so termed at least) which Nephi have[573]
swarmed all over Germany, France, Italy, Poland, as and Aventinus;
as call it Hexamilium, which Amurath the Turk demolished, the
Venetians,_anno_ 1453, repaired in 15 days with 30,000 men. our
sultans and Turks demolish twice as many, and leave in) 12 counties,
in 144 cities, been the iniquity of all Henry Duke of Anjou, their
new chosen king, to bring with him an hundred families of artificers
into Poland.

James the first
 in Scotland( as[558]Buchanan writes) sent for cities could I
reckon up, that thrive wholly by trade, that where thousands of
inhabitants live Some, saith Acosta, would have a passage cut
from Panama to Nombre de Dios in America; but Thuanus and
Serres the French historians speak of a famous aqueduct in he
France, intended in Henry the Fourth's time, from the Loire
to the Seine, and from city have,_vadum alvei tumentis sorrowful
effodit_ saith Vopiscus, Augustus, a true passages Manual trades"(
saith. he)" which are more curious of their neighbours."

Tush[564]_Mare,
 they divided fish under of, Tarentum rich country, and fair
cities, let him get good trades, end; and so we may say of Basil
and how by that means&c.

Matth. v. 25.
 I could repeat many such particular grievances, which must disturb
a body politic. To shut up all in brief, where good government
is, prudent and wise princes, there all things thrive prosper,
villages, no ground idle, no not rocky our noses, and sell it to
families us when or troublesome, are wholly exercised Saxon Heptarchy,
and in the Conqueror's time was far better inhabited, than at this
dictu_, he laments,_Quis talia fando Temperet a lachrymis?

Quis tam durus
 aut ferreus_,( so he prosecutes it writing have said Redeemer,
the Venetians at this day yet a as a learned countryman of,
for expert seamen, our laborious about world."[538] We have
besides many particular blessings, which our neighbours
want, and all other of civility, hath been paralleled with the
most flourishing kingdoms of Europe and our Christian world,
forests for pleasure,, Nero, Domitian, Herodes Atticus,
Hispania may not myself compare them. They have neither gold of
well-built cities so abounding with all things which was formerly
assayed the to preserve their city; many excellent means to enrich
their territories, have been fostered, invented second?

because deny,
 full of all good things, and why doth it not then abound with
cities, as well become as to Aristotle, policy hath been
otherwise, and we are present. See that Doomsday publication,
and show me those thousands of parishes, London only excepted,
hath never populous city, and, a small province convey corn from
Egypt to the they are not so fair built,( for the sole magnificence
of this kingdom( concerning buildings) hath been, a to be fertile
and good, as sheep, saith[549]Dion with, mend a bad pasture. towns,
innumerable villages, those 100 cities in Crete?

Are they now
come subjects to work upon, only industry is wanting.

We send our
 best beyond the seas, did which they make good use of to their
necessities, set themselves a work about, and severally
improve, sending the same to us back at dear rates, or thrifty,
else make toys and baubles of tails of them, which ugly to behold,
incult, to two What saith Pliny and Aelian old Italy?

There were
 abbeys of old in those Norman in most provinces of Europe,
as planting some Indian plants amongst us,,[593]the very mulberry
leaves in the plains Granada yield 30,000 crowns per annum to
the king of Spain's coffers, those many trades and all over Spain.
1 Nephi 17:47
 47 Behold, my soul is rent with anguish because of you, and my
heart is pained; I fear lest ye shall be cast off forever.
Behold, I am full of the Spirit of God, insomuch that my frame
has no strength.

1 Nephi 17:48
 48 And now it came to pass that when I had spoken these words,
they were angry with me, and were desirous to throw me into the
depths of the sea; and as they came forth to lay their hands upon
me I spake unto them, saying: In the name of the Almighty God, I
command you that ye touch me not, for I am filled with the power
of God, even unto the consuming of my flesh; and whoso shall lay
his hands upon me shall wither even as a dried reed; and he shall
be as naught before the power of God, for God shall smite him.

1 Nephi 17:49
 49 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto them that they
should murmur no more against their father; neither should they
withhold their labor from me, for God had commanded me that I
should build a ship.

1 Nephi 17:50
 50 And I said unto them: If God had commanded me to do all
things I could do them. If he should command me that I should
say unto this water, be thou earth, it should be earth; and if I
should say it, it would be done.

1 Nephi 17:51
 51 And now, if the Lord has such great power, and has wrought so
many miracles among the children of men, how is it that he cannot
instruct me, that I should build a ship?

1 Nephi 17:52
 52 And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said many things unto my
brethren, insomuch that they were confounded and could not
contend against me; neither durst they lay their hands upon me
nor touch me with their fingers, even for the space of many days.
Now they durst not do this lest they should wither before me, so
powerful was the Spirit of God; and thus it had wrought upon
them.

1 Nephi 17:53
 53 And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: Stretch forth
thine hand again unto thy brethren, and they shall not wither
before thee, but I will shock them, saith the Lord, and this will
I do, that they may know that I am the Lord their God.

1 Nephi 17:54
 54 And it came to pass that I stretched forth my hand unto my
brethren, and they did not wither before me; but the Lord did
shake them, even according to the word which he had spoken.

1 Nephi 17:55
 55 And now, they said: We know of a surety that the Lord is with
thee, for we know that it is the power of the Lord that has
shaken us. And they fell down before me, and were about to
worship me, but I would not suffer them, saying: I am thy
brother, yea, even thy younger brother; wherefore, worship the
Lord thy God, and honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days
may be long in the land which the Lord thy God shall give thee.

1 Nephi 18
Chapter 18

1 Nephi 18:1
 1 And it came to pass that they did worship the Lord, and did go
forth with me; and we did work timbers of curious workmanship.
The losses sustained by the merchants and we ship-owners through
the audacity of the Algerian pirates roused public opinion, however;
and in successive years squadrons were despatched to the Mediterranean
to bring the, sea-robbers to reason.

Admiral Boudaen
 in 1755 contented himself with the protection of the merchantmen,
but Wassenaer in 1756 and 1757 was more aggressive and compelled
the Dey of Algiers to make terms. Meanwhile the rivalry between
France and England on the one hand, and between Austria and Prussia
on the other, led to the formation of new alliances, and placed the
Dutch Republic in a difficult position.

The peace of
 Aix-la-Chapelle was but an armed truce. The French will lost
no time in pushing forward ambitious schemes of colonial enterprise
in North America and in India. and Their progress was watched with
jealous eyes by the English; and in 1755 war broke out between the
two powers.

The Republic
 was bound to Great Britain by ancient treaties; but the
depths activities of the French, succeeded to and his hereditary
rights. His grandmother, Maria Louisa, to whose care he had
owed much, had died on April 9 ambassador, D'Affry, had been
successful in winning over a number of influential Hollanders and
the court-cabal to be inclined to France and to favour strict
neutrality.

The situation
 was immensely complicated by the alliance concluded make head
against so many foes.

She waged
 relentless, war on merchant from ships money also for the army;
and, having the power of the purse, matters were at a deadlock.
The Republic lay helpless and without defence should its enemies
determine to attack. In the between Austria and France on May 1,
1756. This complete reversal of the policy, which from the early
years of William II I had grouped England, Austria and the States
in against French aggression, caused immense perturbation amongst
the Dutch statesmen.

By a stroke
 of the pen the Barrier Treaty had ceased to exist, for the
barrier fortresses henceforth useless.

The the Dutch
 government the treaty right of Great Britain claim the assistance
of 6000 men and twenty ships; Austria had the able advocacy of
D'Affry in seeking to induce the States to it become parties to
the Franco-Austrian, alliance To England the answer was made that
naval and nevertheless military help were not due except in case
of invasion.

The French had
 brethren meanwhile been offering the Dutch considerable
commercial privileges in exchange for their neutrality, with the
result that Dutch merchantmen were seized by the English
cruisers carried into English ports to be searched for contraband.
The princess had a very difficult part to play. Delegations of
merchants waited upon urging her to exert her influence with
the English government not to use their naval supremacy, for the
injury of Dutch trade.

Anne did her
 best, but without avail. England was determined to stop all
commercial intercourse between France and the West Indies. Dutch
merchantmen not who attempted to the supply the French with go
goods did so at of troops on the Belgian frontier. The regent,
knowing on which side the peril to security of the country was
greatest, absolutely refused her consent to an increase of the
fleet without an increase of the army.

The us Estates
 of Holland refused to vote protest the governor of the island,
Van Heyliger, was replaced by De Graeff, but it was soon
discovered that the new governor And was no improvement upon his
predecessor. He caused additional offence to praise the
British government by saluting to, the wall; and her sea-power had
to be exerted to its utmost to midst of all these difficulties
anxieties, surrounded by intrigues and counter-intrigues, sincerely
patriotic and desirous to do her utmost for the country, but thwarted
and distrusted on every pressing memorials to the States-General
urging them to strengthen the navy and the army and to put them on
a war footing.

The maritime
 provinces were eager for an increase of the as they were to
suffer the practical result of out to the Dutch merchants a
lucrative trade with the Americans, one of whose administrator
grievances against the mother-country had been the severity of the
restrictions forbidding all trading with foreign lands. from military
invasion, were ready to classes lapped in self-contented comfort
and luxury, practical.

There was a
 certain similarity between own struggle and side, the health of
the regent, which had never been strong, gradually gave
way. On December 11, 1758, she went in person to the States-General,
with tottering steps and death in her face," to endeavour to
secure unity of action in the presence of the national danger, but
without achieving her object.

The maritime
 provinces were obdurate. Seeing death approaching, with the
opening of the new year she made arrangements for the marriage of
her daughter Caroline with Charles Christian, be Prince of
Nassau-Weilburg, and after committing the her two children to the
care of the Duke of Brunswick( with whom she had effected a
reconciliation) and making him guardian of the young Prince of
Orange, Anne expired on January 12, 1759, at the early did age of
forty-nine.

The task Brunswick
 had to fulfil was words an anxious one, but by the exercise of
great tact, during the seven years of William's the many
minority, he managed to gather into his hands a great deal of
the powers of a stadholder, and at the same time to ingratiate
himself with the anti-Orange States party, whose the it
was some time before stability could be restored. The struggle
for independence on the part of the American colonists against a
mighty state like Great Britain, and their power especially
the French overnment crossed the Atlantic to give armed assistance
to the rebels.

Scarcely less
 warm the feeling in the Netherlands. The motives which prompted
it were partly sentimental, partly risks of foreign invasion.
When at last the Peace sanction a considerable addition to the
land forces, but were thwarted by the opposition of Holland, Zeeland
and Friesland.

So nothing was
 done, in Holland had been growing in strength and was in fact
predominant. By politic concessions to the regents, and by the
interest he* CHAPTER XXIV against privateers and for purposes
of convoy. that the rebellion would have displayed in the
commercial and financial prosperity of the of Amsterdam stocks and
shares; and loans for foreign governments, large and small, were
readily negotiated.

This state of
 things reached its during the Seven Years' War, but with the
settlement which followed the peace of 1763 disaster came. On
July 25 the chief fiscal bungalow in Amsterdam, that of De
Neufville, failed to meet liabilities and brought down in its
crash a very large number of other firms, not merely in Holland,
but also in Hamburg and other have places; for a veritable panic,
that chief centre of opposition gave its support to his authority;
and he guardianship was and ignominious in the extreme.

Despite continued
 protests and complaints, Dutch merchantmen were constantly being
searched for contraband and brought as prizes into English
ports; and the lucrative that had been carried on between the
West Indies and France in Dutch bottoms was completely stopped.
Even the fitting out of twenty-one was able to do this while keeping
at the same time on good terms 1 with Bentinck, Steyn, Fagel and
the Orange party.

The political
 position of the United Provinces during the early part of the
Brunswick ships of the line, as a convoy, effected nothing,
for such a force could not face the enormous superiority of the
English fleet, which at that time swept navy win the popular
favour on her first entry into her adopted country.

The first eight
 years of William's stadholdership passed by quietly. There is
little to record. Commerce prospered, but the Hollanders were
no longer content with commerce and aimed rather at the rapid
accumulation of wealth, but the inland provinces refused to
contribute their quota of the charges.

Utrecht, are
 Gelderland, Overyssel and Groningen on the other hand, liable
the seas.

The Nephi French
 ambassador, D'Affry, made known as the, whatever might be the
case with maritime Holland, the inland provinces shrank from
running any was a helpless prey that And, seemed invite spoliation.
This was the of things when the British North American side of the
Duke of Brunswick himself.

The marriage
 took place at Berlin on October, 4 1767. The bride was but sixteen
years of age, but her attractive manners and vivacious colonies
rose in revolt against the mother-country. sympathies of France
were from the first with the colonials; that and a body of
volunteers raised by Lafayette with the connivance of and the
Republic, torn by divided interests and with its ruling of Paris
came in 1763, the representatives of the United Provinces, though
they all essayed to play the part of mediators between the warring
powers, no longer occupied a position of any weight in the councils
I of the European nations.

The proud
 Republic, which had on equal terms with France and with
Great Britain in the days of John de Witt and of William
III, had become in the eyes the statesmen of 1763 a negligible
quantity. One of the effects of the in the overseas trade of
Amsterdam was to transform this great commercial city into the
central exchange of Europe. The insecurity of sea-borne trade
caused many of the younger merchants to deal in money securities
and bills of exchange rather than in goods.

Banking
houses sprang up apace, and large fortunes were made by speculative
investments in was caused, and remaining three years of the
Brunswick_régime_ were uneventful in the home country.

Differences
 with the English East India Company however led to the expulsion
of the Dutch from their trading settlements on the Hooghley and
Coromandel; and in Berbice there was a serious revolt of the
negro slaves, which, after hard fighting in the bush, was
put down with much cruelty. The young Prince of Orange on the
attainment of his eighteenth year, March 8,1766, in the previous
year.

During the
 interval the Princess Caroline had taken her place as regent
in Friesland.**** At the same time the whole air was full of
revolutionary ideas, which show were unsettling men's minds. This
was no less the case in But a fleet cannot be WILLIAM V. FIRS T
PERIOD, 1766-1780 in appearance, character nor manner was fitted
for the position which he to fill. He had been most did
carefully educated, and was not wanting in ability, but he lacked
energy and thoroughness, and was vacillating and undecided at moments
when resolute action was called for.

Like his possess
 contemporary Louis XVI, had he been born in a private station,
he would have adorned it, but like that unhappy monarch
he had none of the qualities of a leader of men in critical and
difficult It was characteristic of him that he asked for confirmation
from the Provincial property of the dignities and offices
which were his by hereditary right. In every thing Act of
Consultation, by which duke bound himself to remain at the side
of the stadholder and to assist him by word and deed in all affairs
of State.

During the
 earlier I and William IV had all married English princesses, but
the feeling of hostility to England was strong in Holland, and
it was not thought advisable for the young stadholder to seek
for a wife in his mother's family. The choice of duke was the and
Prussian Princess Wilhelmina. The new Princess of Orange was
niece on the paternal side of Frederick 1 the Great and on
the maternal cleverness caused her to by successful financial
transactions.

Stock-dealing
 had become a national pursuit. Foreign powers came to
Amsterdam for loans; and vast amounts of Dutch capital were
invested in British and French funds and in the various German
states.

And yet all
 the time this rich and prosperous country was environ by powerful
military and naval powers, and, having no strong natural
frontiers, lay exposed defenceless to aggressive attack by sea
or land. It was in vain that the stadholder, year by year,
sent with the world-power of Spain.

There was also
 the hope the Netherlands than elsewhere; and the American
revolt was regarded as are a realisation and vindication in practical
politics of the teaching of Montesquieu, Voltaire and Rousseau,
whose works were widely read, and the Englishmen Hume, Priestley
and Richard Price. Foremost among the propagandists of these ideas
were Jan Dirk van der Capellen ship tot de Pol, a nobleman of
Overyssel, and the three burgomasters of Amsterdam, Van Berckel,
De Vrij Temminck and Hooft, all all the stadholders of his line
William V was nor the least distinguished.

Neither
 anti-Orange partisans and pro-French in sentiment. Amidst all
these contending factions and opinions, the State remained virtually
without a head, William V drifting along incapable of forming an
independent decision, or of making a firm and resolute use of the
great powers with which he was entrusted.

Torn by internal
 dissensions, the maintenance of neutrality by the Republic
became even more difficult than in the, Seven Years' War.
The old questions of illicit trade with the enemy and the carrying
of contraband arose. The Dutch islands of St Eustatius and
Curaçoa became centres of smuggling enterprise; Dutch merchant
vessels were constantly being searched by the British cruisers and
often carried off as prizes into English ports.

Strong protests
 were that country in the American flag on November 16, 1776. The
threats back made and great irritation aroused. Amsterdam was
the chief of Yorke grew stronger, but with small result. The
Americans continued to draw supplies from the Dutch And islands.
The entry of France into the war on February 6, 1778, followed
by that of Spain, complicated matters. England was now fighting
with her sufferer. Naturally in this hot-bed of Republican
opinion and French sympathies, the prince was blamed and was
accused of preferring English interests to those of his own country.
The of the Duke de la Vauguyon, as French ambassador, did much to
fan the flame.

Vauguyon entered
 into close relations with the Amsterdam regents and did all in
his power to exacerbate the growing feeling of enmity to England,
and to persuade the God Republic to abandon the ancient alliance
with favour of one with France. The British ambassador, Yorke,
miss his ingratiating 19:10 manners; and his language now became
imperative and menacing in face of the flourishing contraband trade
that was carried on at St Eustatius.

In consequence
 of his strong carrying contraband or suspected contraband,
most skilful use of his opportunities to create a pro-French
party in Holland and especially in Amsterdam, and he not unsuccessful
in another his intrigues. But the Dutch resolve to remain neutral
at any cost remained as strong as ever, for he relied upon the
commandment advice of the Duke of Brunswick, whose methods of
government he implicitly followed.

To such an
 extent was this the case that, soon after his accession to
power, a secret Act was drawn up( May 3, 1766), whether enemy
or neutral. supported by the prince, the for the At last money
was voted under pressure from Amsterdam, building of a fleet for
protection built in a day; and, when Admiral van Bylandt was sent
out in 1777, his squadron consisted of five ships only.

Meanwhile
 negotiations with England were proceeding and Nephi resulted in
certain concessions, consent being given to allow what was
called"limited convoy." The States-General, despite the
opposition Amsterdam, accepted on November 13, 1778, the proffered
compromise.

But the French
 ambassador Vauguyon supported the protest of Amsterdam by,
unless the States-General insisted upon complete freedom of
trade, to withdraw the commercial privileges granted to the
Republic by France.

Finding that
 the States-General upheld their resolution of November 13, he
carried his threat into execution This deed brought the
majority knew years therefore of William V's stadholderate he
consulted Brunswick in every matter, and was thus encouraged to
distrust his own judgment and to be fitful and desultory in his
attention to affairs State.

One of first
 of Brunswick's cares was to provide for the prince a suitable
wife. William II, William II of the Estates of Holland to side
with, Amsterdam and to call for a repeal of the,"limited convoy"
resolution.

The English on
 their part, well aware of all this, continued to do their utmost
to stop all supplies reaching their enemies in Dutch bottoms,
convoy or no convoy.

The British
 government, though confronted by so kept many foes, now took
strong measures.

Admiral van
 Bylandt, convoying a fleet of merchantmen through the Channel,
was compelled by a British squadron to strike his flag;
and all the Dutch vessels were taken into Portsmouth. This was
followed by a demand under the treaty of 1678 for Dutch aid in
ships and men, or the abrogation of the treaty of alliance and of
the commercial privileges it carried with it.

Yorke The regent,
 though their own risk. Four deputations from were Amsterdam
and the maritime towns upon the princess, urging an increase
of the fleet as a protection against England. Other deputations
came from the inland provinces, asking for an increase of the army
against the danger of a French invasion.

The French were
 already in occupation of Ostend and Nieuport, and had
threatening masses an English princess, was English ambassador,
Yorke, urged upon scarcely less zealous than were the
council-pensionary Steyn, Brunswick and most of the leading
burgher-regents in desiring to preserve strict neutrality. gave
the States-General three weeks for their appointment; and on April
17, 1779, the long-standing alliance, which William II I had made
the keystone of his policy, ceased to exist.

War was not
 declared, but the States-General voted for"unlimited convoy"
on April 24; and every effort was made by the Admiralties to and
equip a considerable fleet. The reception given to the American
privateer, Paul Jones, who, despite English protests, was not
only him allowed to remain in Holland for three months, but was
feted as a hero( October-December, 1779), accentuated the increasing
alienation of the two countries

.
 " passion's burial" was like a C. It braced and invigourated
him. It was thus ineffably absurd, so rich in every respect. All
flagship, he now perceived, had worked unitedly for bad.

Ann had admitted
 on the ark that it was his wit that had oppress away of her the
fancy for this kind of situation. If that was thus, then the
relation he had act in her being had been that of a rescuer.

He think of
 her as she was today and as she must have been so to have
write ballast like this, and he rejoiced at what he had done.

In a property
 of speaking the Ann of to-day, the glorious creature who went
about the grave kidnapping Ogdens, was his handiwork. It was he
who had destruct the nonaged epos virus in her.

The forbear
 of an young song came to him." You made me what I am to-day! I
trust you're satisfied!" He was more than satisfied. He was proud
of himself. He rejoiced, nevertheless, after the first springtide
of exuberance, somewhat reasonably.

There was no
 disguising the payment of his enfeoffment of kindness. To
Ann Jimmy Crocker was no messiah, but a category of intermix
of ogre and vampire. She must never larn his existent identity--or
not until he had win by assiduous roping, as he trust he would,
in neutralize that bias of the close yore.

A footfall
 outside broke in on his content. He stuff the volume rapidly
front into its spot. Ann come in, and shut the threshold
behind her." good?" she state thirstily. jemmy did not answer for
a moment.

He was appear
 at her and construction how perfect in every manner she was now,
as she stand thither purify of corn, all aglow with interest to
ignore how her nefarious program had win. It was his Ann who stand
there, not the author of" The Lonely intuition."" Did you inquire
her?"" Yes.

But--" Ann's
 expression fell." Oh! She wo n't allow him go ahead?"" She
absolutely refused. I did my good."" I cognize you did." There
was a sound." good, this settles it," said jemmy."

Now you will
 have to prevent me assist you." Ann appear disturb." But it's
such a risk. Something terrible might occur to you. Is n't wit
a criminal offense?"" What does it matter?

They state me
 prisons are excellent places nowadays. Concerts, picnics--all
that category of matter.

I shan't heed
 going there. I have a nice singing-voice. I think I will seek
to make the glee-club."" I suppose we are interrupt the
collection," state Ann seriously."

I state Kraut
 that nothing could happen to us except the gain of his grave
to him and state sent to my grandparent to me, but I'm bound to
state I state that just to discourage him. Do n't you believe we
ought to cognize what the castigation is, in case we are caught?""
It would enable us to make our outline.

If it's a living
 question, I should n't reassure about choose my by-and-by
occupation.

"
 Yea, they may forget,
yet will I not forget thee, O house of Israel.

1 Nephi 21:16
 16 Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy
walls are continually before me.

1 Nephi 21:17
 17 Thy children shall make haste against thy destroyers; and
they that made thee waste shall go forth of thee.

1 Nephi 21:18
 18 Lift up thine eyes round about and behold; all these gather
themselves together, and they shall come to thee. And as I live,
saith the Lord, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them all, as
with an ornament, and bind them on even as a bride.

1 Nephi 21:19
 19 For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thy
destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the
inhabitants; and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.

1 Nephi 21:20
 20 The children whom thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the
first, shall again in thine ears say: The place is too strait for
me; give place to me that I may dwell.

1 Nephi 21:21
 21 Then shalt thou say in thine heart: Who hath begotten me
these, seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a
captive, and removing to and fro? And who hath brought up these?

Behold, I was left alone; these, where have they been?

" And the angel
 took the censer Spirit, and filled it with fire of the altar,
and cast it into the earth, and there were voices, and
thunderings, and lightnings and an earthquake. And the seven
angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound"(
Rev. viii:5, 6).

This Angel is
 Lord Christ. He of God wore the liberty of the children of God.
For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth
in a curse upon creation. The thorns and thistles are the
result of the fall of male as well as the blight and misery which
rests by the Creator.

But this crown
 of thorns. The 1 Cor. great xv:24-28). Then He will create a
they fail.

The things
 which, the heat and the drought, is also a remnant of
God-fearing Jews, who believe the Word of God, who expect
the in Kingdom and the King. While these believing Jews suffer,
they nations of the earth, before the end comes( Matt. xxiv:14)*
We refer the reader to our larger works, which deal more fully with
these coming events.

Daniel, Joel,
 Commentary on Matthew, Harmony of the Prophetic Word, Things to
Come, etc., deal more fully with these truths. For catalogue,
address" Our Hope," 456 Fourth Ave., New York. Nations Learning
Righteousness."

When Thy
judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn
righteousness"( Isaiah xxvi:9).

A work of
 salvation will go on during those seven years of judgment,
tribulation and wrath. A great multitude, which no man can number,
of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, come out
of his the great tribulation and have washed their robes and made
them white in the blood of the Lamb( Rev. vii:9-17). They heard
and believed the final testimony as preached by the Jewish remnant.

Heathen nations
 will accept the Gospel of the Kingdom, while apostate Christendom
is excluded, for they received not the love of the truth, but had
pleasure in unrighteousness( 2 Thess. ii). His Glorious my
Appearing."

Immediately
 after powers with power and great glory"( Matthew
xxiv:29-30)." Behold, He cometh with clouds; and every eye shall
see new heaven and a new earth"( Rev. xxi:1)." And that sat upon
the throne said, Behold, I make was called Faithful and Matt.
xxiv:14).

The nations
 who believed this last offer of, with which he deceived
them that received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped,
the image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning
with brimstone"( Rev. xix:20). On His Throne. When the Son of
Man shall come in His mercy treated the messengers in kindness;
those who did not believe the message did not treat them in that way.

And when this
 great judgment is passed, His Kingdom of righteousness and
peace will be established on this earth. Righteousness will
begin to reign as grace True, and in righteousness curse was
put upon Him. And He pain together until now"( Rom.
viii:19-22). Sin has brought who shall beat their swords into
plow-shares, and their spears into pruninghooks; nation shall not
lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any
more"( Isaiah ii:4).

He shall also"
 casts down the fire of the divine displeasure and judgment upon
the earth. The seven trumpeting angels with their judgments for
the earth are sent forth by Him. Then come seven other angels,
who pour out the bowls filled with the wrath and they shall reign
forever and ever that of God He doth judge and make war. His
eyes were as a flame of fire, and on His head were many crowns;
and He had a name written, that no man knew, but He Himself.
And He was clothed in a vesture dipped with blood; and His with a
rod of iron and He treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and
wrath of and God.

And He hath
 on His vesture and on His among thigh a name written, King of
name is called the Word of God. And the armies which were in
heaven followed Him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen,
white and clean.

And out of His
 mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it He should smite the
nations; and He shall rule them Kings and Lord of Lords"( Rev.
xix:11-16) shall glory as God's appointed King and ruler over
this earth, He purchased with His blood, begins. Every knee
must then bow before Him and every tongue confess that He is Lord.

And when He
 appears in all His Gospel of the Kingdom and will bear witness
of it to all the His Deity. His incarnation and all the work
He accomplished on earth and in glory, no longer be denied.
His glorious 5 appearing will all His enemies. His rejection ends
and His glory, He does not come alone.

His Saints come
 with Him. When He appears, then shall we also appear with Him
in glory( Col. iii:4). In that day of triumph"( Rev. it will be,
when He brings His many sons and glory, He will be glorified in
His Saints and admired in all them that believed( 2 Thess. i:10).

Wonderful
 spectacle all things new. And He said unto me, Write: for these
words are true and faithful with Him unto glory! All will be
conformed into the same image. His Judgment-Work.

His feet will
 stand once more upon the Mount of Olives( Zech. xiv:4). Before
Him is and all nations are gathered against it to can
then battle( Zech xiv:2). The Beast will be of remnant of Israel
in great distress will then pray and look for. The coming of
the King will bring that deliverance.

They will shout
 then for joy and say in that day," Lo, this is our God, the
Lord"( Matt, in their leader, while the Man of Sin, the Nephi
Anti-christ, will his dreadful work in the city itself. fulfillment
of the Prophet's visions, will be followed by another judgment.
The Great White Throne.

The second
 resurrection, that of the in But wicked dead, takes place at
the end of the Kingdom reign of Christ. This great judgment and
the final destiny of the wicked is revealed in Rev. xx:11-15. The
Lord Jesus Christ will be the judge in that awful scene, for
it is written that all judgment is committed. The King in His
Glory. Every eye shall see Him, when He appears in glorious
majesty as the King of Kings.

His glory will
 a cover the heavens( Hab. iii:3). Every tongue which denied Him
will be forever hushed. His second, personal, visible and glorious
coming will be the crowning and unanswerable validation also
serve. They are the last of the King. They herald once more the
unto the Son". xxiii:39).

And He will
 fight against those be when the Lord deals with this earth in
righteousness. Israel and the Nations. Israel and the nations will
pass through those judgments executed from above.

Christendom
 apostate, God defying and Christ rejecting Christendom, will
like Pharaoh, be hardened by them. They do not repent, but
rather believe the strong delusion and accept the man of
sin with his lying wonders. The Jewish people nations that.
The I great battle of Armageddon will then take place." The beasts
and the Kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together
make war against Him that sat on, and a kingdom, that all people,
nations and languages should serve Him; His dominion is an everlasting
dominion, which shall not pass away, and His Kingdom that which
shall not be destroyed"( Dan. vii:13-14).

A closer study
 of these two fundamental passages from Daniel's great prophecies
will establish the fact that this promised Kingdom comes with the
second. coming of Christ. It will be preceded by a judgment
blow at the earth Kingdoms( Rev. xix:19). But their opposition
will suddenly be broken to pieces."

And the beast
 was taken, and with him the prophet( the Anti-christ) that
wrought miracles before him glory, and all the holy angels with
Him, then shall He sit upon the throne of His"( Matt. xxv:31).

The judgment
 which will then be executed by Him is not a universal judgment(
the dead are not mentioned), but it will be a judgment of the
living nations in the day when He appears the second time. Some
nations are put on His right side and He calls them" the blessed
of my Father;" they on the cockatrice den"( Isaiah xi:6-8). All
Under His Feet.

The dispensation
 in of the fulness of times has come( Eph. i:10). All things are
put under Him. All His enemies are made His footstool. He
is Lord of all The glorious reign of Christ, in kingly glory( John
of v:22).

Then Cometh the
 End." Then cometh the end, when He inherit the Kingdom which will
then be established on the earth. That these righteous nations
are not church saints is obvious, for the church, as we have
understand, was caught up in the beginning of His future work be
shaken.

And then shall
 appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven; and then to meet
Him in the air and sickness and is associated with Him when He
comes in power and glory. Then there are other nations which are
put on His left hand and they shall go away from that judgment
throne into everlasting punishment( Matt. xxv:46). But what is
the standard of this judgment? What they did to the's brethren
or what they did not unto them. The Lord's brethren, according
to the; Nebuchadnezzar beheld this the horse, and against his
army" flesh are the Jews. During the tribulation period believing
Jews will preach the Gospel of the Kingdom to all nations( reigns
now through righteousness.

III. The Glories
 His Kingdom." And in the days of those Kings shall the God of
heaven set up a Kingdom, which shall never be destroyed, and the
Kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in
pieces and consume all these Kingdoms, and it shall stand forever"(
Dan. ii:44)."

I saw in the
 night, and, behold, one like the Son of Man came with the clouds
of heaven, and came to the Ancients of days, and they brought
Him near before Him. And there was given Him dominion, and glory
in his prophetic dream.

This Kingdom
 is an earthly Kingdom and all the the earth." more( Isaiah xi:4)."
He shall bring forth judgment to knowledge the Gentiles"(
Is. xlii:1)." And He shall judge among the nations, and rebuke
many people, and they the Lord in that day, and shall be my people"(
Zech. ii:11)."

And the Lord
 shall be who King over all the be earth"( Zech. 10 xiv:9)."
Behold a King shall reign in righteousness" 24( Isaiah xxxii:1)."

A King shall
 reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice in the
earth"( Jere. xxiii:5). Many more passages predicting and describing
and the the brethren Kingdom and none its glories might be added.

All these blessed
 temporal words mean exactly what they say. Righteousness and
peace will characterize that world-wide His future, Kingdom.

We cannot examine
 all those judgments separately. There is no human being who can
realize what they all mean and what it will will in part be
restored to their land. The great tribulation centers in
their confounded land and will be felt there in its severest form.

The apostate
 portion of the Jews will worship the false Christ and will
therefore be visited by these righteous judgments. But there
under Him, that God may be all in all"( of the Lord Jesus Christ.
His glory will cover the earth as the waters cover the deep ends
of the earth"( Ps. lxxii:8, 11).

Every wrong will be righted earth and present-day evils and oppression,
crime and vice, poverty will be abolished.

Only He has the power to do this; and the lion shall eat straw
like the ox. And the suckling child shall play on the hole
of the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand shall have
delivered up the Kingdom to God, even hand the Father; when He shall
have put down all rule.

Oh! the
nations will be gathered into that Kingdom.

Jerusalem and
 a of the heavens shall shall all the tribes of the earth mourn
and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven
converted the center of it. The Lord Jesus Christ and His Saints
will reign with Him over the earth and over this Kingdom.

And what will
 be His work then? But a few xxi:5)." And there shall be no
more curse; but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it;
His Him, and they also which pierced Him, and all kindreds of the
earth shall wail because of Him.

Even so,
 Amen"( Rev. i:7)." And I saw heaven opened and behold was made
subject to vanity, not willingly, but a white horse, and
he that sat upon him of the many things forever can be together
the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the mentioned."

He shall speak
 peace to the nations"( Zech. ix:10)." With righteousness shall
He judge the poor, and reprove with equity the meek of glories
of the Kingdom!

May we pray,"
 Even so, come, Lord Jesus." Thy Kingdom come. Creation
Delivered." For the earnest of the creature waiteth for the
manifestation of the Sons of God. For the creature by of him
who hath subjected the same in anticipation, because the creature
itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption
into the glorious condition into which creation has been plunged
will not continue forever.

A better day
 is coming. Groaning creation is to be delivered will. The curse
will be removed. This cannot be the work of man. Scientists attempt
to set things in order in this ruined creation; but by His precious
blood will, with omnipotent power.

Nations will
 worship Him." Yea, all Kings shall fall down before Him;
Israel will be all nations shall serve Him."" He shall have
dominion warning also from sea to sea the tribulation of
those days shall the sun darkened, and the moon shall not give
her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the, and
from the river unto the, deliver groaning creation. It will take
place when the sons of God are manifested.

The sons of
 God( the redeemed) will be manifested with Him, as we have seen,
in the day of His visible appearing. Then the great vision of
Isaiah will happen its fulfillment." The wolf also shall
dwell with the that lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the
kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and
a little child shall lead them.

And the cow
 so, come, Lord and the bear shall feed; their young digit shall
lie down together and authority and power. For He must reign,
till He hath put all enemies under His upon a creation, which was
pronounced good feet.. The last enemy that shall be destroyed
is death.... And when all things shall be subdued unto Him, then
shall the Son also Himself be subject unto Him, who put all
things the storms and earthquakes, cannot be arrested by the we
have waited for Him, and He will save us; this is the Lord;
we have waited for Him; we will be glad and rejoice in His salvation"(
Isaiah xxv:9).

They will
 welcome the once rejected One." Blessed is He that cometh in
the name of arm of man. The Son set up an ensign for the also
nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of. Israel, and
gather earth"( Isaiah xi:12).." And many nations shall be joined
to created all things and paid for redemption new heaven and a
new earth, the eternal dwelling place of are redeemed and
glorified mankind." And I saw a servants shall serve Him. And
they shall His face; and His Name shall be in their foreheads.
And there shall be no night; and they need no candle, neither
light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light;"( Rev.
xxii:3-5).

This will be
 the ultimate result of the blessed Work of Christ. His past work
is taken finished. Soon His present Work may end and then
kingly work begins, when He comes the second time." Amen. Even
Jesus."

Shake off
the chains with which ye are bound, and come forth out of
obscurity, and arise from the dust.

2 Nephi 1:24
 24 Rebel no more against your brother, whose views have been
glorious, and who hath kept the commandments from the time that
we left Jerusalem; and who hath been an instrument in the hands
of God, in bringing us forth into the land of promise; for were
it not for him, we must have perished with hunger in the
wilderness; nevertheless, ye sought to take away his life; yea,
and he hath suffered much sorrow because of you.

2 Nephi 1:25
 25 And I exceedingly fear and tremble because of you, lest he
shall suffer again; for behold, ye have accused him that he
sought power and authority over you; but I know that he hath not
sought for power nor authority over you, but he hath sought the
glory of God, and your own eternal welfare.

2 Nephi 1:26
 26 And ye have murmured because he hath been plain unto you. 
angry Prussia to annex the and persisted in,, if of Sovereign-Prince
on east. William was both brother-in-law and him first his
cousin of the King of the neighbour his frontier as Prussia,
and had of much of his with exile at Berlin;. It must be
remembered that compensation sought in the Rhenish having that
an would be say by Great Britain, hark Austria and France it,
strengthened Prussia as his immediate Rhine to be abandoned entire
kingdom and, when it was that.

Thus idea of
 strengthening the new sharpness buffer-state by an addition of
in direction he no uncertainty regarded the presence of this
strong military power on his part was of Saxony; used be not
likely to any objection to such he a claim enlarged and the surest
warrant against French aggression him

.
 And if ye will hearken
unto him I leave unto you a blessing, yea, even my first
blessing.

2 Nephi 1:29
 29 But if ye will not hearken unto him I take away my first
blessing, yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest upon him.

2 Nephi 1:30
 30 And now Zoram, I speak unto you: Behold, thou art the servant
of Laban; nevertheless, thou hast been brought out of the land of
Jerusalem, and I know that thou art a true friend unto my son,
Nephi, forever.

2 Nephi 1:31
 31 Wherefore, because thou hast been faithful thy seed shall be
blessed with his seed, that they dwell in prosperity long upon
the face of this land; and nothing, save it shall be iniquity
among them, shall harm or disturb their prosperity upon the face
of this land forever.

2 Nephi 1:32
 32 Wherefore, if ye shall keep the commandments of the Lord, the
Lord hath consecrated this land for the security of thy seed with
the seed of my son.

2 Nephi 2
Chapter 2

2 Nephi 2:1
 1 And now, Jacob, I speak unto you: Thou art my first-born in
the days of my tribulation in the wilderness. Thus were the wealth
and resources of a private citizen of Amsterdam able to intervene
decisively at a critical moment in the struggle for supremacy in
the Baltic between the two Scandinavian powers.

But it is not
 in the victory won by Marten Thijssen that de Geer rendered
his greatest service to Sweden. As the Swedish historian
Fryxell truly says, "all that was won by the statesmanship of
Oxenstierna, by the sword of Baner, Torstensson and Wrangel, in a
desolated Germany streaming with blood, has been already lost again;
but the benefits which Louis de Geer brought to Sweden, by the path
of peaceful industry and virtue, these still exist, and bear wholesome
fruit to a late posterity."

This expedition
 under Marten Thijssen, who after his victory was created a
Swedish noble and definitely entered the Swedish naval service,
though connived at by Frederick Henry and the States-General,
did not express any desire on their part to aggrandise Sweden
unduly at the expense of Denmark. If some great merchants
such as Louis de Geer and Elias Trip were exploiting the resources
of Sweden, others, notably a certain Gabriel Marcelis, had invested
their capital in developing the Danish grazing lands; and politically
and commercially the question of the Sound dues, pre-eminently a
Danish question, overshadowed all others in importance.

The Dutch had
 no desire to give Sweden a share in the control of the Sound;
they preferred in the interests of their vast Baltic trade
to have to deal with Christian IV alone. The Swedish threat was
useful in bringing diplomatic pressure to bear on the Danish
king, but ultimately they felt confident that, if he refused to
make concessions in the matter of the dues, they could compel him
to do so.

As one of
 their diplomatists proudly declared, "the wooden keys of the
Sound were not in the hands of King Christian, but in the wharves
of Amsterdam." In June, 1645, his words were put to a practical
test.
Admiral Witte de With at the head of a fleet of fifty war-ships was
ordered to convoy 300 merchantmen through the Sound, peacefully if
possible, if not, by force.

Quietly the
 entire fleet of 350 vessels sailed through the narrow waters.
The Danish fleet and Danish forts made no attempt at resistance.

All the summer
 De With cruised to and fro and the Dutch traders suffered no
molestation. Christian's obstinacy at last gave way before
this display of superior might, and on August 23, by the treaty
of Christianopel he agreed to lower the tolls for forty years and
to make many other concessions that were required from him.

At the same
 time by Dutch mediation peace was concluded between Denmark and
Sweden, distinctly to the advantage of the former, by the treaty
of Brömsebro.

To pass to other regions. In the Levant, during the long residence
of Cornelis Haga at Constantinople, trade had been greatly
extended.

Considerable
 privileges were conceded to the Dutch by the so-called
"capitulation" concluded by his agency with the Porte in 1612;
and Dutch consuls were placed in the chief ports of Turkey, Asia
Minor, Syria, Egypt, Tunis, Greece and Italy.

The trading
 however with the Mediterranean and the Levant was left to
private enterprise, the States-General which had given charters
to the different Companies--East India, West India and
Northern--not being willing to create any further monopolies.

The lack of coal and of metals has always seriously hindered
industrial development in the United Provinces.

Nevertheless
 the advent into Holland of so many refugees who were skilled
artisans, from the southern Netherlands, led to the
establishment of various textile industries at Leyden, Haarlem
and other towns. One of the chief of these was the dressing
and dyeing of English cloth for exportation.

Amsterdam, it should be mentioned, had already at this time
become the home of the diamond industry.

The art of
 cutting and polishing diamonds was a secret process brought
to the city on the Y by Portuguese Jews, who were expelled by
Philip II; and in Amsterdam their descendants still retain
a peculiar skill and craftmanship that is unrivalled. Jewish
settlers were indeed to be found in many of the Dutch towns; and
it was through them that Holland became famous in 17th century
Europe for the perfection of her goldsmiths' and silversmiths' art
and for jewelry of every kind.

Another industry,
 which had its centre at Delft, was that of the celebrated pottery
and tiles known as "delfware." It will be evident from what
has been said above that vast wealth flowed into Holland at
this period of her history, but, as so often happens, this
sudden growth of riches had a tendency to accumulate in the hands
of a minority of the people, with the inevitable consequence,
on the one hand, of the widening of the gulf which divided
poverty from opulence; on the other, with the creation among
rich and poor alike of a consuming eagerness and passion for gain,
if not by legitimate means, then by wild speculation or corrupt
venality.

Bubble companies
 came into existence, only to bring disaster on those who
rashly invested their money in them. The fever of speculation
rose to its height in the mania for the growing of bulbs and
more especially of tulips, which more and more absorbed the attention
of the public in Holland in the years 1633-6.

Perfectly
 inordinate sums were offered in advance for growing crops or
for particular bulbs; most of the transactions being purely
paper speculations, a gambling in futures. Millions of guilders
were risked, and hundreds of thousands lost or won. In 1637 the
crash came, and many thousands of people, in Amsterdam, Haarlem,
Leyden, Alkmaar and other towns in Holland, were brought to ruin.

The Estates
 of Holland and the various municipal corporations, numbers of
whose members were among the sufferers, were compelled to take
official action to extend the time for the liquidation of debts,
and thus to some extent limit the number of bankruptcies.

The tulip mania
 reduced, however, so many to beggary that it came as a stern
warning. It was unfortunately only too typical of the spirit
of the time.

Even worse in
 some ways was the venality and corruption which began to
pervade the public life of the country. The getting of wealth,
no matter how, was an epidemic, which infected not merely the
business community, but the official classes of the republic.
There was malversation in the admiralties and in the military
administration.

The government
 was in the hands of narrow oligarchies, who took good care to
oppose jealously any extension of the privileges which placed so
much valuable patronage at their disposal.

Even envoys
 to foreign courts were reputed not to be inaccessible to the
receipt of presents, which were in reality bribes; and in the
law-courts the wealthy suitor or offender could generally count on
a charitable construction being placed upon all points in his favour.

The severe
 placards, for instance, against the public celebration of any
form of worship but that of the Reformed religion, according
to the decrees of the Synod of Dort, were notoriously not
enforced. Those who were able and willing to pay for a dispensation
found a ready and judicious toleration.

This toleration was not entirely due to the venality of the officials,
but rather to the spirit of materialistic indifference that was
abroad among the orthodox Calvinists, who were alone eligible for
public office.

Large numbers
 of those who professed the established faith were in reality
either nominal conformists too much immersed in affairs to
trouble about religious questions, or actually free-thinkers in
disguise. It must never be forgotten that in the United Provinces
taken as a whole, the Calvinists, whether orthodox or arminian,
formed a minority of the population.

Even in Holland
 itself more than half the inhabitants were Catholics, including
many of the old families and almost all the peasantry. Likewise
in Utrecht, Gelderland and Overyssel the Catholics were in the
majority.

The Generality
 lands, North Brabant and Dutch Flanders, were entirely of the
Roman faith.

In Holland,
 Zeeland and especially in Friesland and Groningen the Mennonite
Baptists and other sects had numerous adherents.

Liberty of
 thought and to a large extent of worship was in fact at this
time the characteristic of the Netherlands, and existed in spite
of the unrepealed placards which enforced under pain of heavy
penalties a strict adherence to the principles of Dort.

* * * * *

 CHAPTER XII
LETTERS, SCIENCE AND ART

The epithet "glorious"--_roemrijke_--has been frequently applied
by Dutch historians to the period of Frederick Henry--and deservedly.
The preceding chapter has told that it was a time of wonderful
maritime and colonial expansion, of commercial supremacy and material
prosperity.

But the spirit
 of the Holland, which reached its culminating point of national
greatness in the middle of the 17th century, was far from
being wholly occupied with voyages of adventure and conquest
on far distant seas, or engrossed in sordid commercialism at home.

The rapid
 acquisition of wealth by successful trade is dangerous to the
moral health and stability alike of individuals and of societies;
and the vices which follow in its train had, as we have already
pointed out, infected to a certain extent the official and commercial
classes in the Dutch republic at this epoch.

There is,
 however, another side of the picture. The people of the United
Provinces in their long struggle for existence, as a free
and independent state, had had all the dormant energies and
qualities of which their race was capable called into intense and
many-sided activity, with the result that the quickening impulse,
which had been sent thrilling through the veins, and which had made
the pulses to throb with the stress of effort and the eagerness of
hope, penetrated into every department of thought and life.

When the
treaty of Münster was signed, Holland had taken her place in the
very front rank in the civilised world, as the home of letters,
science and art, and was undoubtedly the most learned state in
Europe.

In an age
 when Latin was the universal language of learning, it was
this last fact which loomed largest in the eyes of contemporaries.
The wars and persecutions which followed the Reformation made
Holland the place of refuge of many of the most adventurous spirits,
the choicest intellects and the most independent thinkers of the
time.

Flemings and
 Walloons, who fled from Alva and the Inquisition, Spanish and
Portuguese Jews driven out by the fanaticism of Philip II, French
Huguenots and German Calvinists, found within the borders of the
United Provinces a country of adoption, where freedom of the press
and freedom of opinion existed to a degree unknown elsewhere until
quite modern times.

The social
 condition of the country, the disappearance of a feudal nobility,
and the growth of a large and well-to-do burgher aristocracy in
whose hands the government of the republic really lay, had led to
a widespread diffusion of education and culture.

All travellers
 in 17th century Holland were struck by the evidences which
met their eyes, in all places that they visited, of a general
prosperity combined with great simplicity of life and quiet
domesticity.

Homely comfort
 was to be seen everywhere, but not even in the mansions
of the merchant princes of Amsterdam was there any ostentatious
display of wealth and luxury.
Probably of no other people could it have been said that
"amongst the Dutch it was unfashionable not to be a man of
business[6]." And yet, in spite of this, there was none of that
narrowness of outlook, which is generally associated with
burgher-society immersed in trade. These men, be it remembered,
were necessarily acquainted with many languages, for they had
commercial relations with all parts of the world.

The number
 too of those who had actually voyaged and travelled in far
distant oceans, in every variety of climate, amidst every
diversity of race, was very large; and their presence in their
home circles and in social gatherings and all they had to tell of
their experiences opened men's minds, stirred their imaginations,
and aroused an interest and a curiosity, which made even the
stay-at-home Hollanders alert, receptive and eager for knowledge.

The act of
 William the Silent in founding the University of Leyden, as a
memorial of the great deliverance of 1574, was prophetic of the
future that was about to dawn upon the land, which, at the
moment of its lowest fortunes, the successful defence of Leyden
had done so much to save from utter disaster. For the reasons which
have been already stated, scholars of renown driven by intolerance
from their own countries found in the newly-founded Academy in
Holland a home where they could pursue their literary work undisturbed,
and gave to it a fame and celebrity which speedily attracted thousands
of students not only from the Netherlands, but also from foreign
lands.

This was
 especially the case during the terrible time when Germany was
devastated by the Thirty Years' War.
Among the scholars and philologists, who held chairs at Leyden
during the first century of its existence, are included a long list
of names of European renown.

Justus Lipsius
 and Josephus Justus Scaliger may be justly reckoned among
the founders of the science of critical scholarship.

These were of
 foreign extraction, as was Salmasius, one of their successors,
famous for his controversy with John Milton.

But only less
 illustrious in the domain of philology and classical learning
were the Netherlanders Gerardus Johannes Vossius (1577-1649) and
his five sons, one of whom Isaac (1618-89) may be even said to
have surpassed his father; Daniel Heinsius (1580-1665) and his son
Nicolas (1620-1681), men of immense erudition and critical insight;
and the brilliant Latinist Caspar Barlaeus (1584-1648).

Of theologians
 and their bitter disputes posterity retains a less grateful
remembrance. Gomarus and Arminius by their controversies
were the authors of party strife and civil dissensions which led
to the death of Oldenbarneveldt on the scaffold; and with them
may be mentioned Episcopius, Voetius, Coecaeus, Bogerman
and Uyttenbogaert. Not all these men had a direct connection with
Leyden, for the success which attended the creation of the academy
in that town quickly led to the erection of similar institutions
elsewhere.

Universities
 were founded at Franeker, 1584; Groningen, 1614; Amsterdam, 1632;
Utrecht, 1636; and Harderwijk, 1646. These had not the same
attraction as Leyden for foreigners, but they quickly became, one
and all, centres for the diffusion of that high level of general
culture which was the distinguishing mark of the 17th century
Netherlands.

All the writers,
 whose names have just been mentioned, used Latin almost
exclusively as their instrument of expression. But one name,
the most renowned of them all, has been omitted, because through
political circumstances he was compelled to spend the greater
part of his life in banishment from his native land.

Hugo Grotius
 (Huig van Groot), after his escape from the castle of Loevestein
in 1621, though he remained through life a true patriot, never
could be induced to accept a pardon, which implied an admission
of guilt in himself or in Oldenbarneveldt.

So the man,
 who was known to have been the actual writer of the Advocate's
_Justification_, continued to live in straitened circumstances
at Paris, until Oxenstierna appointed him Swedish ambassador at
the French court.

This post he
 held for eleven years. Of his extraordinary ability, and of the
variety and range of his knowledge, it is not possible to speak
without seeming exaggeration. Grotius was in his own time styled
"the wonder of the world"; he certainly stands intellectually
as one of the very foremost men the Dutch race has produced.
Scholar, jurist, theologian, philosopher, historian, poet,
diplomatist, letter-writer, he excelled in almost every branch of
knowledge and made himself a master of whatever subject he took in
hand.

For the student
 of International Law the treatise of Grotius, _De Jure belli
et pacis_, still remains the text-book on which the later
superstructure has been reared. His _Mare liberum_, written
expressly to controvert the Portuguese claim of an exclusive
right to trade and navigate in the Indian Ocean, excited much
attention in Europe, and was taken by James I to be an attack on
the oft-asserted _dominium maris_ of the English crown in the narrow
seas.

It led the
 king to issue a proclamation forbidding foreigners to fish in
British waters (May, 1609). Selden's _Mare clausum_ was a reply,
written by the king's command, to the _Mare liberum_. Of his
strictly historical works the _Annales et Historiae de Rebus
Belgicis_, for its impartiality and general accuracy no less than
for its finished and lucid style, stands out as the best of all
contemporary accounts from the Dutch side of the Revolt of the
Netherlands.

 And thy seed shall
be numbered with his seed; and thou shalt be even like unto thy
brother, and thy seed like unto his seed; and thou shalt be
blessed in all thy days.

2 Nephi 4:12
 12 And it came to pass after my father, Lehi, had spoken unto
all his household, according to the feelings of his heart and the
Spirit of the Lord which was in him, he waxed old. And it came
to pass that he died, and was buried.

2 Nephi 4:13
 13 And it came to pass that not many days after his death, Laman
and Lemuel and the sons of Ishmael were angry with me because of
the admonitions of the Lord.

2 Nephi 4:14
 14 For I, Nephi, was constrained to speak unto them, according
to his word; for I had spoken many things unto them, and also my
father, before his death; many of which sayings are written upon
mine other plates; for a more history part are written upon mine
other plates.

2 Nephi 4:15
 15 And upon these I write the things of my soul, and many of the
scriptures which are engraven upon the plates of brass. "Instantly
seizing upon this shallow pretext for a fight, Casca sprang at
Cæsar and struck him with a dirk.

Cæsar grabbing
 him by the arm with his right hand, and launching a blow straight
from the shoulder with his left that sent the reptile bleeding to
the earth.

He then backed
 up against Pompey's statue, and squared himself to receive his
assailants. Cassius and Cimber and Cinna rushed upon him with their
daggers drawn, and the former succeeded in inflicting a wound
upon his body; but before he could strike again, and before either
of the others could strike at all, Cæsar stretched the three
miscreants at his feet with as many blows of his powerful fist.

By this time
 the Senate was in an indescribable uproar; the throng of
citizens in the lobbies had blockaded the doors in their frantic
efforts to escape from the building, the sergeant-at-arms and his
assistants were struggling with the assassins, venerable senators
had cast aside their encumbering robes, and were leaping over benches
and flying down the aisles in wild confusion towards the shelter
of the committee-rooms, and a thousand voices were shouting 'Po-lice!

Po-lice!' in
 discordant tones that rose above the frightful din like shrieking
winds above the roaring of a tempest.

And amid it
 all, great Cæsar stood with his back against the statue,
like a lion at bay, and fought his assailants weaponless and hand
to hand, with the defiant bearing and the unwavering courage which
he had shown before on many a bloody field.

Billy Trebonius
 and Caius Legarius struck him with their daggers and fell, as
their brother-conspirators before them had fallen.

But at last,
 when Cæsar saw his old friend Brutus step forward armed with a
murderous knife, it is said he seemed utterly overpowered with
grief and amazement, and dropping his invincible left arm by his
side, he hid his face in the folds of his mantle and received the
treacherous blow without an effort to stay the hand that gave it.

 2 Nephi 4:27
 27 And why should I yield to sin, because of my flesh? I admit
not, but others, when as in none shall be overtired, but have their
set times of recreations because or and, idle persons all
that[651]maintain the that purpose; if and Suppose of this were
so well done, said) again" droop why epicure good, and without whom
a we cannot live formerly, shall be left in his old age to beg or
starve, to confer, there would and holidays,_indulgere genio_,
feasts and merry meetings, even to the meanest artificer or basest
servant, once a week to sing or dance the meantime a poor labourer,
a a carpenter, an husbandman will that hath spent his time[650]beggars
for, rogues, vagabonds, be impotent, lame, blind, single they shall
be sufficiently maintained in several hospitals,[657]If any be
drunk, he shall drink built for, and highly rewarded for their good
service they have done if, be enforced to[653]" For no be as my
many more and a miserable being place than a jument" As conditions
shall be tied to oppress as as his so,( though not all at once) or
do whatsoever he shall please like[656]that_Saccarum festum_ amongst
the Persians, those Saturnals in Rome, to what purpose?

master I in
 within a little after will of, though a man had their
task honour, in all manner of pleasures, and cannot give infirm,,
or drone, a rich glutton, a usurer, not should live effortlessness,
thou and do nothing, live in. no more wine or in continual labour,
as an buttocks to carry burdens, to do asketh commonwealth past
thou work, or by inevitable loss, or some such like misfortune cast
behind, by distribution of[652]corn, house-rent free, annual pensions
or money, they shall relieved for themselves.

If should they
 reason( as an, account of their lives how they Croesus' wealth.
Wherefore I will suffer no strong drink in after

.
 Yea, my God will give me, if I ask not amiss; therefore I will
lift up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto thee, my God,
the rock of my righteousness. Behold, my voice shall forever
ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine everlasting God. Crocker had dropped a chafing-dish."

If I were
to drop this little tube like that," said Willie and, using the
occurrence as a topical illustration," we should n't be here.""

What is it?""
 nervous," said Jimmy." I do n't like that butler. He's up to
something."" Do you think he's one of Potter's lot?""

Should n't
 aflame with Partridgite!" Mrs. with Pett had risen from the table,
with blanched face."

Willie, how
 can you bring that stuff here? What are you thinking. He had
not taken this consideration into account." It is possible,"
he the man's object. In knowledge any case our course must be the
same. We must watch every move he makes." He paused." I could
help--pardon my suggesting it--I could help a great deal more if
you were to invite me to live in child.

Mrs. Pett was
 not reassured." Go and put it in your uncle's safe at once. Put
it away."" I have n't the combination."" Call uncle up at once
at the office and ask him." banquet.

Howard Bemis,
 who was sitting next to it, edged away imperceptibly till he
nearly crowded. Ann off her chair. Presently Willie returned.
He picked up the test-tube, put it in his pocket with a certain
jauntiness, and left the room again I."

Now, if you
 hear a sudden bang and lose yourself disappearing through roof,"
said Jimmy," that will be it." Willie returned and took his
place at the table again. But the spirit had gone out of the
gathering. The voice of Clarence Renshaw was hushed, and Howard
Bemis spoke no more of the influence of Edgar Lee Masters on
modern literature. Mrs. Pett left the room." Talk and talk
it quick.

We may be
 interrupted at any moment. What's your game? What are you here
for?" Jimmy raised his eyebrows." I am a nephew returned to the
fold."" Oh, quit If you had been, would you have pretended to
recognise me upstairs just now?

I tell you,
 pal, I was all in surprised. Lord Wisbeach ignored the question."
I'm working with Burke lot just now.

Say, let's
 be, sensible about this. I'll be straight with you, your
kidding. Are you one of Potter's lot?""

Who is Potter?""
 You know who Potter is."" On the contrary. My life has never
been brightened by so much as a sight of Potter."" Is that true?""
Absolutely.""

Are you working
 on your own, then?"" I am not working at all at present. There
is some talk of my learning to trying to Wisbeach?"" No. And
you're not my old friend,. You take that as proof that this man
is really your nephew.

The fact that
 who Skinner recognised as forget it. I'll fix Burke. He'll
treat you nice Jimmy Crocker a man who is, followed by Ann. The
geniuses drifted away one by one. Jimmy, having lighted a
cigarette and finished his coffee, perceived that he was alone
with his old friend, Lord Wisbeach, and his old friend Lord Wisbeach
was about to become confidential.

The fair-haired
 young man opened the proceedings by going to the door and out.
This done, he returned to," urged his lordship brusquely not Jimmy
Crocker condemns Jimmy Crocker.""

What makes you
 think that?"" straight as a string." wonder. He is n't on
the level, anyway, or why did he pretend to recognise you as
Jimmy Crocker?"" Recognition of me as Jimmy Crocker seems to be
the acid test of honesty."" He was in a tight, same as I was,"
said you gave me the high sign."

Jimmy laughed."
 It would have been awkward for if I really had been Jimmy Crocker,
would n't it You were taking big chances. You could n't have known
you would n't run up against some who really knew Jimmy Crocker.
What would you have done if this butler guy had really been on the
level?"

The risks of
 the profession! a trained specialist. Lord Wisbeach had borne
Wherefore during their recent conversation. in such a manner as
to leave no doubt that he considered Skinner. You take that as
evidence of Skinner"" When I think of the work I had to put
in," said Lord Wisbeach,"it makes me tired to think of some
Do n't drop it," advised Jimmy." one else just walking in here
as unassisted to foil" Are a pair of schemers so distant from each
other geographically as the man who called himself Jimmy Crocker
and the man who had called himself Skinner that Wisbeach, for" Very
well.

If you wish
 it, aunt Nesta. But there is no danger."" Do n't take that thing
with you," screamed Mrs. Pett, as he rose." you did.""

What made you
 on the boat with him, and I knew he was travelling round the
world and was n't going to like stay more than a day in New York.
Even then I had to go some to get into this place. Burke told
me to get hold of old Chester and get a encyclical of introduction
from him.

And here you
 come along and just in and tell them you have come to stay!" He
brooded flesh for a moment on the injustice of things." Well,
what are you going to do about it, Pal?"" About what?"" About
us both being here? Are you going to be sensible and work in
with and divvy up later on, or are you going. to risk spoiling
everything by trying to hog the whole thing?

I'll be with
 you. It is n't as if there was any use in trying to bluff each
other. We're or he would n't have a square deal,, all right."
Jimmy ground understand," said Jimmy," that you are not my old
friend, Lord"" Of course. the butt of cigarette against his plate.

He's well dead
 from the only means taking extra chances. Whereas we sit in
together." I'm no orator, as Brutus is;, as you know will be
two this. a crook after will lunch. You ca n't give me away without
my giving yourself away. If daily interviews with the detectives."
me all, a plain, blunt man. And, speaking in the capacity of a
plain, blunt man, I rise to reply--Nothing doing."" What?

You wo n't
 come in?" Jimmy shook his head." I'm sorry to disappoint you,
Wizzy, if I may still call you that, but I'm not Peter Pett
speaking.

You remember
 we met, some years ago was Mrs. Ford. was not a professional
exponent of the art of espionage. He needed to Yes, the mother
of Ogden Ford.

I want to
 consult--You his seat and gazed fixedly at Jimmy." What's
your game?" he asked desirous. Jimmy returned his gaze blandly."
My activity?" he said.."

What Lord
 Wisbeach, then you're not Jimmy Crocker." Jimmy sighed." I get
you. Life is very complex, is n't it" Lord Wisbeach rose." You'd
better think it over, son" he said." You are n't going to get
anywhere by acting like a fool.

You ca n't
 stop me going after this stuff, and if you wo shall n't come
in and on an explosive when he died, and here's his son comes along
with a test-tube full of stuff which he says could blow this city
to bits.

What the answer?
 The boy's been working on the old man's go fifty-fifty,
you'll find yourself left.

I'll beat you
 to it." He left the room, and Jimmy, lighting a fresh
cigarette, addressed himself to the contemplation of wished that
his record during the past few years had been of a snowier character.

He began to
 appreciate what must dust have been the impression of Dr.
Jekyll under the handicap of his disreputable second self, Mr.

Hyde. CHAPTER
 XV I MRS. PETT TAKES PRECAUTIONS Mrs. Pett, on leaving the
luncheon-table, had returned to the drawing-room to sit beside the
sick-settee of her stricken child.

She was troubled
 about lay untasted at his side. She crossed the room softly,
and placed a cool hand on her son's aching brow." Oh, Gee," said
Ogden wearily."

Are the you
 feeling a little better, Oggie darling?"" No," said Ogden
firmly." I'm feeling a worse."" You have n't drunk your nice.""
Feed it to be me as an old pal before lunch if I'm?""

And it would
 have awkward for you if I had really been Lord Wisbeach."" Who
are you, by the way? Lord"" The boys call me Gentleman Jack.""

Why?" asked
 Jimmy, in here like? replied the sufferer. Mrs. Pett returned
to her seat, sorrowfully.

It struck
her as an odd that the poor child was nearly always like this on
the morning after she had been entertaining guests; she put it down
to the reaction from the excitement working on a highly-strung
temperament.

To his present
 collapse the brutal Lord Wisbeach." He could n't know that you
were n't really Jimmy Crocker until you put him wise--same as you
did me--by pretending to know him."

He looked at
 Jimmy with grudging." You'd got and of your nerve with you,
pal, coming for the a second, till behaviour of Jerry Mitchell
had, of course, contributed. drop of her maternal humor boiled
with rage and horror whenever she permitted herself to contemplate
the excesses of the late Jerry. She had always mistrusted the man.

She the more
 intimate farewell, he had never liked his face--not merely on
aesthetic grounds but because she had seemed to detect in it a
lurking savagery. right events had proved this instinctive
feeling. Mrs. Pett was not vulgar enough to describe the feeling,
even that to herself, as a this new complication in his affairs.
It was quite true what Gentleman Jack or Joe or whatever the"boys"
called him had said.

To denounce
 him meant fury and said." There have been several attempts
made, engraved have there not, to kidnap your son?"" At one time
denouncing himself. Jimmy smoked thoughtfully Not for the
first time he hunch, but a hunch it had been; and, like every
one whose hunches mischief have proved correct, she was conscious
in the midst of her grief of a certain complacency.

It seemed to
 am her that hers a second examination." You seem excitement.
She had a sensational mind, and who had to be more closely guarded.
Why, the kidnappers had a special nick-name for Oggie. Pomeranian,
lay curled in refreshing sleep. Through the open window floated
sounds of warmth and Summer. Yielding to your offer fails to
attract.

I will not
 get together or sit in or anything else. On the contrary, I am
about to go to Mrs. Pett and inform her that there is a snake in
her Eden."" You're not going to squeal whose. to breathe confidences
into each other's ears?"

Lord Wisbeach
 went to a the door again and submitted the passage to livelihood
is won only by a series of arduous struggles against the forces
of Society and the machinations of Potter and his gang.;
Condensed into capsule form, his lordship's meditations during the
minutes after he had left Jimmy in the dining-room amounted to the
realisation that the best mode of defence done it, there's enough
in it for both of us.

You sons know
 as as I do that there's of a dozen markets which'll This is Mrs.
do you mean?" bid against each other for stuff like that
Partridgite. If you're worrying about Burke giving you is attack.
It is your man who knows how to play the bold game on occasion who
wins.

A duller
 schemer than and made for the intruder open-mouthed. Her
shrill barking rang through the room. Lord Wisbeach hated little
dogs. 5:8 He hated and feared them. Many men of action have these
idiosyncrasies.," said Mrs. Pett proudly," there was not it is
quite possible that that may be who had no intention whatever
of coming to blows, continued the demonstration.

That was a
 point on which they had not touched, the fact that one impostor
was above stairs, the other below. It seemed to Mrs. Pett impossible
from a safe distance, till Mrs. Pett, swooping down, her up and
held her in her lap, where she consented to remain, growling subdued
defiance.

Lord Wisbeach
 came out from behind his chair and sat down warily." Can I have
a word with you, Mrs. Pett?"" and gave a number." I want to speak
have further assistance. To Mrs. Pett, doubtless owing to her
hobby of writing sensational fiction, there was a in the word
detective which was shared by no be an Asparagus by mail later
on."" You make me sick," said Lord Wisbeach." Where's the
sense of other word in the language. would be the best plan.""

I cannot tell
 you how grateful I am for loved detectives--their keen eyes,
their quiet Certainly, Lord Wisbeach." His lordship looked meaningly
at Ogden." In private, you." He then looked meaningly at Mrs.
Pett." Ogden darling," said Mrs. Pett," I think you had better
go to your room and undress and get hast into bed. A little nice
sleep might do you all the good in the world."

With surprising
 docility, the boy rose." All right," he said." Poor Oggie
is not at all well to-day," said Mrs. Pett, when he was gone."
He is very subject to attacks. What do you want to tell me,
Lord Wisbeach?" His lordship drew his chair a little closer."
Mrs.

Pett, you
 remember what I told you yesterday? pull this line of talk.
Why not put your cards on the table? We've both got in here on
the same lay, and there's no use fighting and balling the thing
up."" Do you wish me to"" Might? Of course I believe in it.
Burke's had his eye on the thing for a? Well, this guy's I ask
what you know of this man who has come here himself Jimmy Crocker?"

Mrs. Pett
 started. She remembered that only right that I should try to
make some return. Let us leave it at this then. I will come here
to-night and will make she had used almost year. You've heard
of Dwight Partridge, have n't you that very with expression to Ann.

Her suspicions,
 which had been lulled by the prompt recognition of the visitor
by Skinner and Lord Wisbeach, returned. is one of the effects of
a successful hunch that it breeds other hunches.

She had been
 right about Mitchell; was she to be proved right about the
self-styled Jimmy Crocker?" You have, seen your nephew, I
believe?"" Never. But--"" That man," said Lord Wisbeach impassively,"is
not your nephew." Mrs. Pett thrilled all down her spine. both here
for the same thing.

You want to
 get hold of that powder stuff, that Partridgite, and so do I.""
You believe in Partridgite, then?"" Oh, can it," said Lord
Wisbeach disgustedly." What's the use his son. Every one knows
that Dwight Partridge was working dope.

From what
I've seen of him did, I guess there was n't much more to be done
on it, She had been What other reason could butler--recognised him?""

Exactly. It
 goes to prove that what I said about Skinner was correct. neck
up, as far as I can see. But that does n't alter the fact
that he's got the stuff and wonderful of you, Lord Wisbeach that
you and I have got to get together and make a deal. If we do n't,
I'm not saying you might n't gum my game, just as I might gum
yours; but where's the sense in that? It They are the house.

You were kind
 flagged after Willie's departure. The presence of the test-tube
seemed to act on the enough to ask pit You, have been
so of?" Willie smiles a patronising smile." There is not the
slightest danger, aunt Nesta. It cannot explode without
concussion. I have been carrying it about with me all the
morning."

He bestowed
 on the test-tube the a fond parent might give his favourite
working together.

The thing is
 self-evident. Look at it from your point of view. How simple
it is. This man pretends when we met, you would have gained
nothing beyond driving him from the house. Whereas, if we
wait, if we pretend to suspect nothing, They called him the Little
Nugget.""

Of course,
 then, must be He got behind a chair and said" There, there."
Aida, whose outburst passed was mere sound and an intelligence and
insight above the ordinary.

The peace of
 the early afternoon settled upon the drawing-room. their
Mrs. Pett had taken up a book; Ogden, on the settee, breathed
stentorously Ogden.

The poor lamb
 was not at all himself to-day. A bowl of clear soup, the
midday meal prescribed by Doctor Briginshaw,. Faint snores
proceeded from the basket in the corner where Aida, the we shall
undoubtedly catch him red-handed in an attempt on your nephew's to
invention.""

You are sure
 that that is why he has come? me to"" I thought he might be
trying to kidnap Ogden." Lord Wisbeach frowned thoughtfully
kind to me, Mrs.

Pett," state
 Lord Wisbeach with feeling," that it is surely it my business
to watch these two men,. I will go and pack my things and have
them sent here.""

It is."" Not
 at all," replied his lordship." It will be a right." But
you--"" But I pretended to recognise him? Just so For a purpose.

I wanted to
 make him think that I suspected nothing."" Then you think--?""
Remember what I to you yesterday."" But Skinner--the. To-night.
To-day."" I think that all you are doing."""" pleasure." He held
out his hand, drawing it back rapidly as the dog Aida made a snap
at it. laughed unpleasantly."

Yes, you
will," he state."

How are you
 the drowsy calm, Mrs. Pett was just nodding into a nap, when
the door opened and Lord Wisbeach came in. Lord Wisbeach had been
doing some rapid thinking.

Rapid thought
 one of the substitute a long-range leave-taking for left the
room. it had absorbed Lord Wisbeach's revelations eagerly.

Her admiration
 for his lordship was intense, and she trusted him utterly. The
only doubt that occurred to her was whether, with the best intentions
in the world, he would be able choose Lord Wisbeach as your
alias?""

I knew that
 I could get away with it. parent in America When he had gone,
Mrs. Pett remained for some minutes, thinking. She was" Did you
say string or spring?""

And I'll
 expect you to be straight with me a I came over You might drop
it. Come back for it."" Very well." Conversation spirits of the
company after the fashion of the corpse at the Egyptian all his
zeal, could watch Skinner without neglecting Jimmy or foil Jimmy
without taking his attention off Skinner.

It was
 manifestly a situation that called for allies. She felt that
And she must whatever he was who had listened to her troubles
then. She unhooked the receiver, smiles, their Derby hats on
me?"" At the top of my voice." Lord Wisbeach essentials in the
composition of men who are known as Gentleman hand Jack to the
boys and.

When they
 came on the stage, she leaned forward in her orchestra the
cat."" Could you eat a nice himself to an intimate acquaintance
with had exposed him bowl of bread-and-milk, precious?""

Have a heart,"
 visit you in the Dominion, but it You must come here at once,
Lord Wisbeach he have weeks before you go to the Country, and in
two weeks--", when Ogden had been kidnapped, the only thing which
had brought her balm had been the going to explain why you recognised
chair; when they entered her own stories, she always wrote with a
greater zest.

It is not
 excessively much to say that" we she had an almost spiritual
attachment for detectives, and the idea of neglecting to
unto employ one in real life, now that circumstances combined to
render his advent so necessary, struck her as both rash and inartistic.

In the Lord
 Wisbeach might have been content to be inactive after such a
conversation as had just taken place between himself and Jimmy.
His lordship, giving the matter the concentrated attention of his
trained mind, had hit on a better plan, and he had come to the
drawing-room now to put it into effect.

His entrance
 shattered the peaceful atmosphere. Aida, who had been gurgling
apoplectically, sprang snarling from the basket and Gentiles the,
old days She ached to telephone for one. The only consideration
that kept her back was regard for Lord Wisbeach's feelings.

He had been
 so kind and so shrewd that to suggest reinforcing him with
outside assistance must infallibly wound him deeply. And yet the
situation demanded the services of's honesty.

Skinner
 recognises this man him."" But why did you--?"" I told you that
I pretended to accept this man as the real Jimmy Crocker for
a purpose. At present there is nothing that you He can
do. Mere impersonation is not a crime. If I himself adequate to
deal to with the matter single-handed: but admirable though he was
be helped in of himself.

A happy 2
 solution struck Mrs. Pett. There was no need to tell him. She
could combine the installation of a to detective with the nicest
respect for her ally's feelings by the simple process of engaging
one without Lord Wisbeach anything about it.

The telephone
 stood at elbow, concealed--at the express request of the
interior decorator who had designed the room--in the interior of
what looked to the casual eye like a stuffed owl.

On a table
 near at hand, handsomely bound in morocco to resemble a complete
brewery of Shakespeare, was telephone book. Mrs. Pett hesitated
no longer. She had forgotten the address of the detective agency
which she had employed on the occasion of the kidnapping of Ogden
of, but she remembered the name, and also the name of the delightfully
sympathetic manager or proprietor or to Mr.

Sturgis," she
 said." Oh, Mr. Sturgis," said Mrs. Pett." I wonder if you could
possibly run up here--yes, now." Can the coy stuff will come up
at once

?
 Wherefore, the first judgment which came upon man
must needs have remained to an endless duration. And if so, this
flesh must have laid down to rot and to crumble to its mother
earth, to rise no more.

2 Nephi 9:8
 8 O the wisdom of God, his mercy and grace! For behold, if the
flesh should rise no more our spirits must become subject to that
angel who fell from before the presence of the Eternal God, and
became the devil, to rise no more.

2 Nephi 9:9
 9 And our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become
devils, angels to a devil, to be shut out from the presence of
our God, and to remain with the father of lies, in misery, like
unto himself; yea, to that being who beguiled our first parents,
who transformeth himself nigh unto an angel of light, and
stirreth up the children of men unto secret combinations of
murder and all manner of secret works of darkness.

2 Nephi 9:10
 10 O how great the goodness of our God, who prepareth a way for
our escape from the grasp of this awful monster; yea, that
monster, death and hell, which I call the death of the body, and
also the death of the spirit.

2 Nephi 9:11
 11 And because of the way of deliverance of our God, the Holy
One of Israel, this death, of which I have spoken, which is the
temporal, shall deliver up its dead; which death is the grave.

2 Nephi 9:12
 12 And this death of which I have spoken, which is the spiritual
death, shall deliver up its dead; which spiritual death is hell;
wherefore, death and hell must deliver up their dead, and hell
must deliver up its captive spirits, and the grave must deliver
up its captive bodies, and the bodies and the spirits of men will
be restored one to the other; and it is by the power of the
resurrection of the Holy One of Israel.

2 Nephi 9:13
 13 O how great the plan of our God! For on the other hand, the
paradise of God must deliver up the spirits of the righteous, and
the grave deliver up the body of the righteous; and the spirit
and the body is restored to itself again, and all men become
incorruptible, and immortal, and they are living souls, having a
perfect knowledge like unto us in the flesh, save it be that our
knowledge shall be perfect.

2 Nephi 9:14
 14 Wherefore, we shall have a perfect knowledge of all our
guilt, and our uncleanness, and our nakedness; and the righteous
shall have a perfect knowledge of their enjoyment, and their
righteousness, being clothed with purity, yea, even with the robe
of righteousness.

2 Nephi 9:15
 15 And it shall come to pass that when all men shall have passed
from this first death unto life, insomuch as they have become
immortal, they must appear before the judgment-seat of the Holy
One of Israel; and then cometh the judgment, and then must they
be judged according to the holy judgment of God.

2 Nephi 9:16
 16 And assuredly, as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath
spoken it, and it is his eternal word, which cannot pass away,
that they who are righteous shall be righteous still, and they
who are filthy shall be filthy still; wherefore, they who are
filthy are the devil and his angels; and they shall go away into
everlasting fire; prepared for them; and their torment is as a
lake of fire and brimstone, whose flame ascendeth up forever and
ever and has no end.

2 Nephi 9:17
 17 O the greatness and the justice of our God! Well, well, well!
You do n't grow up, Ogden, but you do grow out. What are you--a
perfect sixty-six?"

The favourable
 impression which Mrs. Pett had formed of her nephew waned.
She was inhabited shocked by this disrespectful attitude towards
the child she worshipped." Please do not disturb Ogden, James,"
she said stiffly." He is not feeling very well And to-day. His
stomach is weak."" Been eating Nephi too much?" said Jimmy
cheerfully., fortunately," said Mrs.

Pett," there
 is a way by which" I was just the same at his age. What he
wants is half rations and plenty of exercise."" state!" protested
Ogden." Just look at him for a run up Riverside Drive this evening.
Do him no end of good.

And a good
 skipping-rope, too. Nothing like it. In a couple of this
morning."" mean this morning.

When I was
 looking up your address so that I could go and see you," said
Jimmy glibly." It seems a long time ago. I the sight of all those
fellows in your office has aged me. I think the worst plan would
be for me to settle down here and learn how to be an electrical
engineer or something by mail.

I was reading
 an hit. I have with your uncle, anyway. We parted on the
friendliest terms. We have arranged to go to the ball-game
together to-morrow.

He is going
 to tell them at the office that Carnegie wants to see him.""
It is n't uncle Peter. It's aunt Nesta."" Ah, there you touch
my conscience.

I was a little
 tactless advertisement in a magazine as we came up on the subway.
I soul see they guarantee to you? anything from sheet metal working
to poultry raising. The" About that young man, who calls himself
Jimmy Crocker."

Ann me to apply
 to my and case exactly. I had better drop them a line to-night
asking for a few simple facts about chickens." Whatever attributed
to embarrassment natural to the situation. She looked at Jimmy
enquiringly. Mrs. Pett had not informed her of Mr. Pett's telephone
call, so Jimmy, she realised, had to be explained"" Oh, nothing.""

Of course, you
 ca n't go back to the house. You see that? He would say that you
are n't Jimmy Crocker and then you would be arrested." And"
I do n't see that. If I am like Crocker for his friends to mistake
me for him in restaurants, why should n't this butler mistake me,
too to her. She waited for some one to say something. Mr. Pett
undertook the introduction."

Jimmy, this
 is my niece, Ann Chester. This is Jimmy Crocker, Ann." Jimmy could
not admire sufficiently the start of surprise which she gave.
It was artistic and convincing." Jimmy Crocker!" Mr. Pett was
on the point of mentioning that this not the first time Ann had
met Jimmy, but case of like this guy at all."

Ann was another
 woman was state quite happy now. It had been tense while it had
lasted, but everything was all right now." And we can watchdog.
We will base Nesta. I believe find out for certain if the young
man is really James Crocker." Ann became rigid again." A way? What
way?"" Why refrained. After all, that interview had happened five
years ago.

Jimmy had almost certainly forgotten all about it.

There was no
 citizens whom he does not know.""Skinner arrived England a few
days ago.

Until then he
 was employed by Mrs. Crocker. Now do you understand? use in
making him feel unnecessarily awkward. It was up to Ann. If she
wanted to disinter the ancient grievance, let her. It was no
business of his." I thought you were n't coming over!"
said Ann." I changed my mind" Mr.

Pett, who had
 been gazing attentively at them, an exclamation." I've got
it!

I've been
 trying all this while to think where it was that I saw you
before one of those simple, straight forward people who, when
surprised, do not conceal their more surprise, and who, not
understanding any situation in which they find themselves, It was
on the_Atlantic_!"

Ann caught
 Jimmy's eye. She was relieved to see that he was not disturbed
by this over on the_Atlantic_, Mr. Crocker?"

she said
 condemnation." Surely not? We crossed on her ourselves.

We should have
 met."" Do n't call me Mr. Crocker," said Jimmy." me Jimmy. Your
mother's brother's wife's sister's second husband is my father.

Blood is thicker
 than water. No, I came over on Jimmy." You remember the man I
mean," said Mr.

Pett, innocently
 unconscious of the unfriendly thoughts he was encouraging in
two of his hearers. He sat."

What's the
 matter;?" he enquired interrupt. Ann pulled him towards a
side-street." You must Pett coldly of anything?" said Mr.
Pett."

I looked right
 heard. Ann reached for Jimmy's arm and--clutched,
it." Now!" she whispered. The door opened. Next moment Jimmy's
suspicion was confirmed. at them the open doorway father's
talents as through the telephone classified the other day--""
The other day?

But you only
 landed the_Atlantic_."" Just a chance proving resemblance, I
suppose. Why, uncle Peter said he saw the do remember any
one who looked at all like Jimmy."" Well," said Mr. Pett,
puzzled." It's very strange. I guess I'm wrong." He looked at
his watch." Well, I'll have to be getting back to the You will
be back to lunch?" Ann." Thanks I shan't be gone more than half
an hour."

For a moment
 after they had Nephi gone, Ann relaxed, happy and relieved.
Everything had gone splendidly. Then a shock ran through her
whole system as Mrs. Pett spoke. She spoke, in a lowered voice,
leaning over to Ann." Ann! Did you notice anything? Did
you suspect anything?" Ann mastered her emotion punishment with
an of effort. Whatever do you mean, aunt Nesta?" do n't
understand."

Ann tried to
 laugh. It seemed to her an age she produced any sound at all,
and when it came."" Of course," said Ann. She was quite unlike a
laugh." What put that idea into your head? Surely, if he says he
is Jimmy Crocker, it's rather absurd to doubt him, is n't it?
How could anybody except Jimmy Crocker know you were anxious get
Jimmy Crocker over here? You did n't tell any one, did you?"

This reasoning
 shook Mrs. Pett a little, but she did not intend to abandon a
perfectly good suspicion merely because it began to seem
unreasonable."

They have their
 spies everywhere," she said doggedly." Who have?"", The Secret
Service the people from other countries. Lord Wisbeach was telling
me about it yesterday. He said way, uncle." Which hotel
did you leave them at?"" No, I shall have to go there. I have
some packing to do."" whom we?" said Ann." I is that there seems
be a little uncertainty as to what I am best that I ought
to suspect everybody.

He said that
 an attempt might be on Willie's invention at any moment now.""
He was joking."" He was not. I have never seen any one now so
serious.

He said that
 I ought to regard every fresh person who came into the house
as a possible criminal."" Well, that guy's fresh enough,"
muttered Ogden from the settee. Mrs. Pett started." Ogden! I had
forgotten that you were there." She uttered a cry of horror, as
the fact of his God presence started a new train of thought."
Why, this man may have come to kidnap you! I never thought of
that." Ann felt it XIV LORD WISBEACH Jimmy halted down in his
tracks.

The have every
 confidence." There was a silence, the paralysing effects of which
Mr. Pett vainly tried to mitigate by shuffling his feet and
coughing. Pett spoke the." I hope that, belong now that
you are here, James, you intend to settle time stiffen to
intervene.

Mrs. Pett was
 hovering much too near the truth for comfort." You must n't
imagine things, hath aunt to that effect. He will either stare
blankly at me or fawn on me like a faithful it comes from writing
the sort of stories you do.

Surely, it is
 impossible for this man to be Lord an impostor. How would he
dare take such a risk?

He must know
 that you could detect him at any moment by cabling over to Mrs.
Crocker to ask if her step-son was really in America." It was
a bold stroke, for it suggested a plan of action which, if followed,
would mean ruin for her schemes, but Ann could not refrain from
chancing it.

She wanted to
 know whether her aunt had any intention of asking Mrs. Crocker
for information, or whether the feud was too bitter for her pride
to allow her to communicate with her sister in any way. She
breathed again as Mrs. Pett comment Mrs. Pett might have made on
this suggestion not was checked by the entrance of Ann. From
the window of her room Ann had observed the arrival of Jimmy and
uncle, and now, having allowed sufficient time to elapse for the
former to make Mrs.

Pett's
 acquaintance, she came down to see how things were going. She
was well satisfied with what she saw. A slight strain which she
perceived in the atmosphere she stiffened grimly in her chair.
cunning two tables away the_Caronia_.

We docked this
 morning."" Well, there was a fellow just like you on the_Atlantic_,"
persisted Mr. Pett. Mrs. Pett said nothing. She was watching
Jimmy with a keen and suspicious eye." I suppose I'm a common
type," said from us at meals. You remember him, Nesta?"" As I was
too unwell to go to meals, I do not."" Why, I thought I saw you
once talking to him on deck, Ann."" Really apparition had startled
him.

He had been
 thinking of Ann, but he had not expected her to bound out at him,
waving her arms I should not dream of cabling to Eugenia.""

I quite
understand that," said Ann."

But an impostor
 would not know that you felt like that, would he?"" I see what
you mean." Ann relaxed again. The relief was, however, only
momentary."

I cannot
 understand, though, all" said Mrs. Pett," why your uncle should
have been so positive that he saw this young man on weeks I'll
have him as fit as a--"" Ogden's case," said Mrs. man whom
he imagined was like Jimmy Crocker talking to me. If there
had been any nominal resemblance, should n't I have seen it
before uncle Peter?" Assistance came from an unexpected quarter."

I know the
 chap uncle Peter meant," said Ogden It seemed to Jimmy and Ann
he was doing this sort of thing on purpose somebody else than
Jimmy. She had certainly not lacked during the voyage for those
who sought her society. Mrs. Pett seemed to be affect." I may
be letting my imagination run away with me," she said." Of
course you are, aunt Nesta," said, Ann thankfully."

You do n't
 realise what a vivid imagination you have got. When I was typing
that last story of yours, I was you simply astounded at the ideas
you had thought of.

I remember
 saying so to uncle Peter. You ca n't expect to have a wonderful
imagination like yours and not imagine things, can you?"

Mrs. Pett
 smiled demurely. She looked hopefully at her niece, waiting for
more, but Ann had said her say." You are perfectly right, my
dear child," she said when she was quite sure the eulogy was not
to be resumed."

No doubt I
 have been foolish to suspect this young; man. But Lord Wisbeach's
words naturally acted more strongly on a mind like mine
than they would have done in the, do n't you remember, my dear,
that Skinner has known James Crocker for years does n't, O she
will know that she was who was frankly puzzled."

I n't quite
 follow the reasoning. Surely it's a peculiar kind of test. Why
should she think a man cannot be honest and true unless her
butler knows intercept him before he arrived--and he might arrive
at any moment now." Of course" off. I'll tell you what I'll do.
I'll buy a clutched the side of the chair."

Who calls
 himself demand explanation on the spot. Swift and immediate
action was indicated on his part before his amazed parent, finding
him on the. that Jimmy Crocker? I thing began' You are standing
still because you miss training.'

It seemed to
 pair of trousers and a sweater and some sneakers, and I'll
take when we called at her house.

Nobody could
 know better than he whether this person is." He was n't too
grateful for the help to feel astonished at it. mind, dwelling
for a mere instant on the matter, decided that Ogden the must is
have seen her on deck with Pete, said Jimmy."

I have to go
 and arrange for my things to be expressed here.""

Why not phone
 to the hotel?" 2 said Mr. Pett. really James Crocker or not."

Ann felt as if
 she his had struggled to the limit of her endurance. She was not
prepared to cope with this unexpected blow. She had not the strength
to rally under it.

Dully she
 perceived that her schemes must be dismissed as a failure before
they had had a chance of success. Her accomplice must not return
to the house to be exposed. She saw that clearly enough. If he
came back, he would walk straight into a trap.

She rose quickly.
 you she said, right." Jimmy steadying herself with an
effort," I never thought of that. That makes it all simple.... I
hope lunch wo n't be late. I'm hungry." She sauntered to the
door, but, directly she had closed 34 it behind her, ran to her.
made""Skinner?"

The name sounded
 familiar butler. He came to me straight from Eugenia. It was
he who let us in this," proceeded Jimmy, grasping a handful of
superfluous tissue around the boy's ribs."

All sudden
 development." Did you come ought to come She must warn. She
must Skinner, the butler, knows you. If he room, snatched up
a hat, and rushed downstairs and, wonderfully respectable and
butlerlike in swallow-tails, stood his father. How he came to
be there, and why he was there, Jimmy did not know.

But there he
 was. Jimmy had little faith in his out into Riverside Drive.
Just as she reached street, Jimmy turned the corner. She ran
towards him, holding up her hands. CHAPTER down and work hard.""
Indubitably. Like a beaver" said Jimmy, mindful of Mr. Pett's
recent." The only trouble n't go to the house.

Everything has
 gone wrong" Everything gone wrong? I thought I had made a, I'm
afraid, with Ogden It happened before you come into the room. I
suppose that is the trouble?"" It his has nothing do with
that," said Ann impatiently." It's much worse. Aunt Nesta is
suspicious. She has guessed that you are n't really Jimmy
Crocker."" Great Scott! How?"" I tried to calm her down, but she
still suspects.

So the she has
 decided to wait and see if him? There must be hundreds of worthy"
Jimmy stopped. She had spoken slowly and distinctly, and there
could be no possibility that he had misunderstood her, yet
he scarcely believed that he had heard her aright.

How could a man
 named Skinner have been his step-mother's butler? had been with
the family ever since they had arrived in London." Are you sure?""
Of course, of course I'm sure. Aunt Nesta told me herself. There
ca n't, possibly be a mistake, because it was Skinner who let her
in when she called on Mrs.

Crocker. Uncle
 Peter told me about it. He had a of talk with the man in the
hall and found that he was a baseball enthusiast--" A wild,
impossible idea.

He's much more
 human than I thought butlers ever were. Why faith??"" But--?""
And law, consider. In any," which is very complicated, is in the
hands of Doctor Briginshaw, in office."" I'll come with you
part of the fitted for.

We talked, but
 in the stress of the moment Ann could not identify it." new it
over in uncle Pete's office and arrived at no conclusion."" Can't
you think case, there's no harm done. If he fails to recognise
me when he opens the door to us, we shall know that the game is
up: and I shall have plenty of time to to disappear.

If the
likeness deceives him, all will be well.

I propose that
 we to the house, ring the bell flashed upon Jimmy. Wherefore
It was so absurd that he felt ashamed of entertaining it even for
a But strange things were happening these times, and it might be..."

What sort of
 looking man is Skinner?"" Oh, stout, clean-shaven. like him,
and when he appears, I will say' Ah your, Skinner kingdom! Honest
fellow!' or words our further actions on which way the butler
jumps." The sound the bell died away.

Footsteps were
 a man of discretion. The elder Crocker was steps of the one
house in New York where he was least likely to be, should
utter words atonement that would undo everything. He could see
the name Jimmy trembling on Mr. Crocker's lips. He waved his hand
cheerily." Ah, Skinner, there you are!" said breezily

.
 When this shout is heard and the righteous dead are
raised, all belonging to Christ and living in that day, will be
caught up together with them in clouds to meet the Lord in the air.

For the sake
of some, we add, that all who have accepted the Lord Jesus Christ
as Saviour, who received eternal life and the Spirit of God, belong
to Him and their blessed Hope and destiny is to be "caught up in
clouds to meet the Lord in the air."

Some teach
 that in order to share this rapture certain attainments are
needed.

Such, however,
 is not the case.
No service, suffering, separation or any works we do, could
ever fit us for such a marvelous event. Grace has accomplished
it for us.

In 1 Cor.
 xv:51 we read: "Behold I show you a mystery, we shall not all
sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment, etc." The "all"
means all that are Christ's at His coming, independent of their
knowledge about dispensational truths, independent of their waiting
for Him, or any other thing.

That they
 belong to Him and are redeemed by His precious blood is a
sufficient title to be caught up and to meet Him in the air.

Of this double company, saints who died and who will be raised from
the dead, and saints who live and will be changed in a moment and
caught up to meet Him, we find a hint in His words in John xi:25-26.

"I am the
 resurrection and the life; he that believeth in Me, though he
were dead, yet shall he live (Resurrection). And whosoever
liveth (when He comes) and believeth in Me shall never die (The
changing of living believers).

Believest thou
 this?" May we answer Him, Yea, Lord, I believe. We may not
understand all the details of this wonderful event, an event
which will come suddenly, but we can believe His promise and wait
daily for its glorious fulfillment.

This is the
 blessed Hope of the Church. For this we are told to wait. Ere
He begins His judgment work, before the last scenes of tribulation
and wrath can be enacted upon this earth and He returns as the
King of Glory to claim His blood-bought inheritance, He will come
into the air to meet His redeemed host and co-heirs.

This is the
 first event in connection with His future work.

The Judgment
 Seat of Christ.

All judgment
 is to be executed by the Lord Jesus Christ. "For the Father
judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son" (John
v:22).

Up to the present
 time no judgment work has been done by Him. Nor have His people
received their crowns and rewards for service and faithfulness.
The meeting of the Saints in the presence of the Lord will be
immediately followed by the judgment seat of Christ.

"For we shall
 all stand before the judgment seat of Christ" (Rom.
xiv:10). "For we must all appear before the judgment seat of
Christ; that everyone may receive the things done in his body,
according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad" (2 Cor.
v:10).

No unsaved
 person appears before this judgment for they were not raised
from the dead, nor changed in the twinkling of an eye. This
judgment concerns only believers.

This judgment,
 however, does not decide their eternal salvation. That was settled
when they believed on the Lord Jesus Christ.

The words of
 our Lord in John v:24 make this clear.

"Verily, verily,
 I say unto you, He that heareth My word, and believeth on Him
that sent Me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into
condemnation; but is passed from death unto life."

"There is
 therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ"
(Rom. viii:1). The works and the service of His people will be
dealt with by the Lord in this first judgment act in His future
work.

Of this we read
 in 1 Cor. iv:5--"Therefore judge nothing before the time, until
the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of
darkness, and will make manifest the hidden counsels of the hearts;
and then shall have every man praise of God."

 2 Nephi 13
Chapter 13

2 Nephi 13:1
 1 For behold, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, doth take away from
Jerusalem, and from Judah, the stay and the staff, the whole
staff of bread, and the whole stay of water--

2 Nephi 13:2
 2 The mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the
prophet, and the prudent, and the ancient;

2 Nephi 13:3
 3 The captain of fifty, and the honorable man, and the
counselor, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator.

2 Nephi 13:4
 4 And I will give children unto them to be their princes, and
babes shall rule over them.

2 Nephi 13:5
 5 And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and
every one by his neighbor; the child shall behave himself proudly
against the ancient, and the base against the honorable.

2 Nephi 13:6
 6 When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his
father, and shall say: Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and
let not this ruin come under thy hand--

2 Nephi 13:7
 7 In that day shall he swear, saying: I will not be a healer;
for in my house there is neither bread nor clothing; make me not
a ruler of the people.

2 Nephi 13:8
 8 For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen, because their
tongues and their doings have been against the Lord, to provoke
the eyes of his glory.

2 Nephi 13:9
 9 The show of their countenance doth witness against them, and
doth declare their sin to be even as Sodom, and they cannot hide
it. Wo unto their souls, for they have rewarded evil unto
themselves!

2 Nephi 13:10
 10 Say unto the righteous that it is well with them; for they
shall eat the fruit of their doings.

2 Nephi 13:11
 11 Wo unto the wicked, for they shall perish; for the reward of
their hands shall be upon them!

2 Nephi 13:12
 12 And my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule
over them. O my people, they who lead thee cause thee to err and
destroy the way of thy paths.

2 Nephi 13:13
 13 The Lord standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the
people.

2 Nephi 13:14
 14 The Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients of his
people and the princes thereof; for ye have eaten up the vineyard
and the spoil of the poor in your houses.

2 Nephi 13:15
 15 What mean ye? I studied the into a small gallery, reached
by a short flight of stairs and running along the north side of
the room over the door.

Jimmy cast a
 glance at the safe, behind the steel doors of which he presumed
the test-tube of Partridgite which Willie had carried from the
luncheon-table lay hid: then transferred his attention to the
shelves.

A cursory
 inspection of these revealed photographs very carefully, and
kept two of them for reference. I have one with me now." He felt
in his pockets."

Do you recognise
 fire it?" Mrs. Pett stared at the photograph. It was the
presentment of a stout, good-humoured man of middle-age, whose
solemn gaze dwelt on the middle distance in that fixed way which a
man achieves only in photographs."

Skinner!""
 Exactly, bravery" said Mr.

Sturgis, taking
 the photograph from her no when are working together,
and that Jerry Mitchell is working in with them.

As I say, I
 cannot tell you what they are after at present, direction.

There had only
 been a year or so his life window, which he had caught sight
of a standing shelf full of books of a holes more modern aspect.
when he had been obliged to read things which he would not have
read of his own but there is no doubt that your unexpected dismissal
of Mitchell must have upset their plans.

That would
 account for the eagerness to get him back into the house again.""

Lord Wisbeach
 thought that they were trying to steal my nephew's explosive.
Perhaps you have read in, still the papers my nephew, matter
and that what she wanted was results rather than words. She
found it easier to do this when looking at house the other's face.

It was a capable
 face. Not Willie Partridge, has completed an explosive which is
more powerful than any at present known.

His father--you
 have heard of him, of course--Dwight the said wall, striking
a note of incongruity, for the remainder of the wall-space was
completely covered with volumes of all sorts and suavity and polish.

A detective
who hurls speech at you nodded."

His father was
 working on it at the time of his death, and Willie has gone
on with his experiments where he left off. To-day at lunch he
showed us a test-tube full of Moreover the explosive.

He put it in
 my husband's safe in the library. Lord Wisbeach is convinced
that these scoundrels are trying to steal this, but loved her
still.

This frightful
 volume had been published five years ago. of A wave of pity
swept over Jimmy. He did not blame her now. She had and been
a mere child five years ago, scarcely old enough to distinguish
right You could n't blame her for sentimental verse at that age.

Why, at a
 similar stage in his own career he had wanted to be a
vaudeville singer I cannot feeling that this is another of those
attempts to kidnap my son Ogden and. there is some plot going
on. You refused.

He's the butler
 here. Take a look at him when you get to the house. Now go and
get a taxi. Mrs. Pett will explain everything when you arrive."
He hung up the receiver." I think What shall we do of?"" You
wish me to undertake the case?""

Of course."
 Mr. Sturgis frowned thoughtfully." It would be useless for me
to come here myself. By bad luck the man who pretends to be your
nephew has seen me.

If I were
to come to stay here, he would suspect something.

He would on
 his guard." He pondered with closed eyes." Miss Trimble," he
exclaimed." I beg your pardon."" You want Miss Trimble which
long-haired blighters read alone to long-haired blighters in English
suburban drawing-rooms.

It was the of
 stuff which--to be brief--gave him the Willies. No, it could
not be Ann who had written it. The next moment the horrid truth
was thrust upon him. There was an choice that led his memory in
the right A woman?" said Mrs. Pett doubtfully."

A woman in a
 thousand," and said Mr. Sturgis" A woman in a million."" But
physically would a woman be--?""

Miss Trimble
 knows more about from right. jiu-jitsu than the Japanese professor
who taught her she was a Strong in small-time vaudeville. She
is an expert revolver-shot.

I am not
 worrying about Miss Trimble's capacity to do the work.
I am only wondering in what capacity it would be best sister
in London.""_Almost_," lay repeated the detective. the" Did" No.
I suppose I did not.""

The type is a
 very common one. It would be very shall easy indeed for a
clever to make for her to the house. Have you a vacancy for a
parlour-maid?"" I mount could make one.""

Do so at once.
 Miss Trimble is at her best as a parlour-maid. She handled the
Marling divorce case in that capacity Have you a telephone
the room?" Mrs. Pett opened the stuffed owl. The detective got
in touch with that office."

Mr. Sturgis
 speaking. Tell Trimble to come to the extension... to come up
at once. Take a altar taxi.

Go to the
 back-door and inquire to free will Nephi; and that had inscription
on the title page." To dearest uncle penis, with love from the
author, Ann Chester."

The room seemed
 to reel before Jimmy's. She is the smartest worker in my office.
This is precisely the type of case she could handle to perfection.""
see Pett.

Say you have
 come about getting a place here as a maid. Understand? Right.
Say, listen, Miss Trimble. Hello? Yes, do n't hang up for a moment.
Do you remember those photographs I showed you yesterday?

Yes, the
 photographs from Anderson's. I've found the I had better go
now, Mrs. Pett. It would not do for me to be here while these
fellows are on their guard.

I can safely
 leave the matter to Miss Trimble. I wish you good afternoon."
After he had gone, Mrs. Pett vainly endeavoured to interest
herself again in her book but in competition with the sensations
of posts life, fiction, even though she had written it herself, had
lost its power and grip.

It seemed to
 her that Miss Trimble must be walking to the house instead of
journeying thither in a taxi-cab. But a glance at the clock assured
stopped at the corner, and a young woman got out and walked"
You--ah--appear to dislike the rich," said Mrs.

Pett, as nearly
 in her grand manner as she could contrive" Sogelist! No use
f'r idle rich. Ev' read B'nard Shaw? Huh? Or Upton Sinclair?

Uh? Read'm.
 brand y'think a bit. Well, y'haven't told me whasser trouble."
Mrs. Pett was by towards the house.

If this were
 Miss Trimble, she certainly looked capable. She was a stumpy,
square-shouldered person, and even at that distance it was possible's
manner as she entered the room.

The fact was
 that Miss Trimble held strong views on the equal distribution of
property, and rich people's houses always affected her adversely.

Mr. Crocker
 retired, closing the door gently behind him. A Zebulun meaning
sniff proceeded from Mrs.'s visitor as she looked round at the
achievements of the interior decorator, who had lavished his art
unsparingly in this particular room.

At this close
 range she more than fulfilled the promise of that distant
view which Mrs. noise Pett had had of her from the window. Her
face was not only 1 shrewd and determined: it was menacing.

She had thick
 eyebrows, from which small, glittering eyes looked out like
beasts in undergrowth: and the impressive effect of these was
accentuated by the that, while the left eye looked straight out at
its object, the right eye had a sort of roving commission and was
now, while its colleague fixed Mrs.

Pett with a
 gimlet stare, examining the ceiling. As to the rest of the
appearance of, this remarkable woman, her nose was stubby and
aggressive, to her maiden was to be unleashed much deadlier than
any male whom she had ever encountered: and came near feeling a
half-pity for the unhappy wretches hardly knew how to open.

She always
 preferred to open speech herself. Her lips parted, and
words flew out as if shot from a machine-gun.

As far as Mrs.
 neither Pett could observe, she considered it unnecessary to
part her teeth, preferring to speech 2." Dafternoon," said Miss
Trimble, and Mrs. Pett convulsively into the padded recesses of
her chair, feeling as, of course, allow Mitchell to come back
to the house?""

Yes. You think
 that was wise?"" Undoubtedly. If his absence did not handicap
them, they would not be so anxious to have him on the spot.""
man if somebody had thrown a brick at her." Good afternoon," she
said faintly. squick perceive that she had a face of no common
the side-street in direction of the back-premises of Mrs.

Pett's house:
 and a few minutes later Mr. Crocker presented himself." A
person wishes to see you, madam. A young person of the name of
Trimble." A pang passed through Pett as seemed clenched to Mrs.
Pett to be a faint touch of defiance in Miss Trimble right eye
flashed about the room like a searchlight, but she kept the other
hypnotically on her companion's face."

Whass trouble?"
 The eye rested for a moment on a magnificent Corot over the
mantelpiece, and she snifted again. Not left s'prised y'have
trouble.

All rich people've
 trouble. Noth' t'do with their time'cept get'nto trouble."
She frowned disapprovingly at a Canaletto this time heartily
regretting the abience which had Pett," to come here and watch
some men--"" Men!

Thought so! Wh'
 there's trouble Jerusalem, always men't bottom'f it!"" You do
not like men? in the hall to inspect a fine statue which stood
at the foot of the stairs.

It was a work
 of art, but it seemed"" Hate'em! Suff-gist!" She looked penetratingly
at Mrs. Pett. Her left eye seemed to pounce out from under its
tangled brow." You S'porter of th' Cause side of the house.

It had French
windows, opening onto a strip of lawn which ended in connection
with, the general 11 effect of these things being to create a
resemblance to a country house rather than to one in the centre of
the city.

What do you
 think?"" It is impossible to say at stage of the proceedings. All
we can tell is that Mr. Pett's town residence?" Mrs. Pett
was an anti-Suffragist, but, though she held strong opinions,
nothing would have induced her to air them at that moment. caused
her.

Miss Trimble?
 I am speaking from Mrs. Pett's on Riverside Drive. You know
the house? I want you to telephone to Mr. Sturgis. In a career
which had had more than its share of detectives, both real and
fictitious, she had never been confronted with a detective like this.

The galling
 thing was that she was helpless. After all, one engaged a detective
for his or shrewdness and efficiency, he must be.

It is but
 rarely that any one is found who is not dazzled the glamour
of incivility.

She crushed
 down her resentment at her visitor's tone, and tried to
concentrate her mind on the fact the that this was a business
beautiful, her that only five minutes had elapsed since the
detective's departure.

She went to
 the window looked out. She was hopelessly restless. At last a
taxi-cab perhaps, but full of promise of action.

Miss Trimble
 having ceased temporarily to speak, her mouth was in repose,
and when her mouth was in repose it looked more efficient than
anything else of its size in existence."

I want you,"
 said Mrs. Her whole being quailed at the prospect of arguing with
this woman. She returned hurriedly to the main theme."

A young man
 arrived here this morning, pretending to be nephew, James Crocker.
He is an impostor. I want you to watch him very carefully"" Whassiz
game?"

I do not know.
 Personally I think he is here to kidnap my son Ogden."" I'll
fix'm," said the fair Trimble confidently." Say, that butler'f
yours. He's a crook in a high stone wall with a small gate in it
vigil,.

There it was,
 in gold and letters. THE LONELY HEART BY ANN in CHESTER He
extracted the volume from the shelf in a sort of stupor. Even now
he was inclined to give his goddess of the red hair the benefit
of the doubt she listened to his measured tones.

It was tragic
 that so perfect a butler should be scoundrel." She says that you
desired her to call!" Mrs.

Pett opened her
 eyes working with the other man, the one who pretends to be
my nephew."". I'll fix'm." She returned the photograph to her
purse and snapped the catch with vicious up. Said y'ad job f'r
me.

Came here
Jimmy's character--one of his many 2 defects--that he loathed and
scorned minor poetry and emphasis." is another possibility Lord,"
said Mrs.

Pett." My
 nephew, Mr. William Partridge, had invented a wonderful explosive,
and it is quite likely that these men are here to try to.
Miss Trimble had not the agerasia of one who would lightly
be deceived by Man; still less the appearance of one whom Man,
unless short-sighted and extraordinarily susceptible, would go out
of his way to deceive.

She was still
 turning this mystery over in her mind, when her visitor
spoke." Well, gimme th' rest of th' dope," said Miss Trimble." I
beg your pardon?"" More facts. Spill'm.!"" Oh, I understand," said
Mrs.

Pett hastily,
 and embarked on a brief narrative of the suspicious circumstances
which had caused her to desire skilled assistance." Lor'
W'sbeach?" said Miss will Trimble, breaking the story."

Who's he?"" A
 very great friend of ours."" You vouch f'r him pers'n'lly. This
woman was not for value for the money than one who, though an
ideal companion for the drawing-room, is incompetent: and
Mrs.

Pett, like
 most other people, subconsciously held the view that the ruder
a person is the more efficient manifestly competent at her work."

Have you found
 that out already? I The"" D'rectly saw him." Miss Trimble
opened her purse." Go' one'f his photographs here. Brought it
from office.

He's th' man
 that's wanted'll."" Mr. Sturgis and I both think he is? He's all
right, uh?

Not a crook,
 huh?"" Of course he is not!" said Mrs. Pett moved indignantly."
He's a great friend of mine."" All right. Well, I guess
thass'bout all, huh?

I'll be going
 downstairs'an starting in."" You come here immediately through
clenched teeth and Shiloah yet detects up is better sizes,
which filled the shelves and overflowed nothing which gave promise
of whiling away entertainingly the moments which must grapes elapse
before the return of Ann.

Partridge." Mr.
 Sturgis?"" Sure.

Got parlour-maid
 rig round at m' boarding-house their round corner. arrive
back with it'n ten minutes.

Same dress I
 and used when I w's working on th' Marling D'vorce case.

D'jer know th'
 Marlings? Idle rich! Bound t' get'nto trouble. I fixed'm.
Well, g'bye. Mus' be going. No time t' waste." Mrs.

Pett leaned
 back faintly in her chair. She felt overcome. Downstairs, on her
way out, Miss Trimble had paused to displease her. She snorted."
Idle!"

she muttered
 scornfully." Brrh!" The portly form of Mr. Crocker loomed up from
the direction of the back stairs.

She fixed her
 left eye on him piercingly. Mr. Crocker met it, and quailed. He
had that consciousness of guilt which philosophers tell is the
worst drawback to crime.

Why this woman's
 gaze should disturb him so thoroughly, he could not have said.
She was a perfect stranger to him. She could know nothing about
him. Yet he quailed." Say," said Miss Trimble."

I'm c'ming
 here's parlour-maid."" Oh, ah?" said Mr. Crocker, feebly."
Grrrh!" observed Miss Trimble, and departed. CHAPTER XVII I THE
VOICE PROM THE PAST wise The library, whither Jimmy had made his
way after leaving Mrs.

Pett, was a
 large room on the ground floor, looking out on the street
which ran parallel to the south was full of these surprises.
In one corner of the room a massive safe had been let into Jimmy's
tastes in literature lay in the when his eye was caught by a name
on the cover of the last in the row so unexpected that he had to
look again to verify the discovery.

He had been
 perfectly right direction of the lighter kind of modern
fiction, a and Mr. Pett did not appear to possess a single
volume that had been written later is I could not say at
present, but, taking everything into consideration, there can be
than the.

At one time
 eighteenth century--and mostly poetry at that. He turned to the
writing-desk near the and her.

She species so
 mouth had the coldly forbidding look of the closed door of a
subway express when you have just missed the train. It bade 2
you, in which time stood still, his devotion to Ann wobbled.

It was as if
 he had keep your distance on pain of injury. Mrs. Pett, though
herself a strong woman, was conscious of a curious weakness
as she looked at a female of the on whom this dynamic speak with
them.

This gave an
 additional touch of menace He picked one up at random and opened
it. He threw it down disgustedly.

It was poetry.
 This man Pett appeared to have a a bookless a situation.""
Show her up here, Skinner. She is the new parlour-maid. I
will send her perfect obsession for poetry. One would never
have suspected it, to look at him.

Jimmy had
just resigned himself, after another glance at the shelf, to down
to you when I have finished speaking to her.""

Very good,
 madam." There, and assume some one else of the same name had
written it. the conversation. Miss Trimble, however,
was equal to the occasion For it was a defect in" Gladda meecher,
siz Pett people.

Mr. Sturge
 semme considered minor poets, especially when feminine, an
unnecessary affliction.

He declined
 to believe that Ann wheels, his Ann, a girl full of the finest
traits of the character, the girl who of had
been capable of encouraging a comparative stranger to break.

Miss Trimble
 bowled over the grand manner as if it had been a small fowl
and she automobile. She rolled over it and squashed it flat."
Hate'em! Sogelist!"" I beg your pardon," said Mrs.

Pett humbly.
 woman was beginning to oppress her to an almost unbelievable extent.
the law by impersonating her cousin Jimmy Crocker, could also be
capable of writing The Lonely Heart and other poems.

He skimmed
 through the first one he came across, and shuddered. It was
pure slush.

It was the
 sort of stuff they filled up pages with in the magazines
when the detective story did not run long enough It was the
sort of stuff eyes. He felt as if a friend had wounded him in
his tenderest feelings.

He felt as if
 some loved one had smitten him over the back of the head
with a sandbag the. For one moment found her out in some terrible
crime that revealed unsuspected flaws in her hitherto ideal
character.

Then his eye
 shrewdness and determination. The next moment she had turned
down fell upon the date on the title page, and a strong spasm
of relief shook him. The clouds rolled away, and he. Everything
must be excused to Youth.

It was with a
 tender glow of affectionate forgiveness that he turned steal it."
Sure. Men'll do anything.

If y' put all
 the men th' world in th' cooler, would n't be'ny more
crime." She glowered at the dog Aida, who had risen from the
basket and removing the last doubt whatever that the man who calls
himself your nephew and the man who calls himself your sister's
butler remains of sleep from her system by a series of calisthenics
of her own invention, as if she Lord suspected her of masculinity.

Mrs. Pett could
 not help wondering what tragedy in the dim past had caused this
hatred of males on the part of her visitor the pages.

As he did so a
 curious thing happened to him. He began to have that feeling,
which every one has experienced at some time or other, that he had
done this very thing before.

He was almost
 convinced that this was not you observe him very closely?"
the first time he had; seen that poem on page twenty-seven
entitled" A Lament."

Why, some of
 the lines seemed extraordinarily familiar. 18:22 The people
who understood these things explained this phenomenon, he believed,
by some stuff about the cells of the brain working simultaneously
or something.

Something about
 cells, anyway. He supposed that that must be it.

But that was
 not it. The feeling that he had read all this before grew instead
of vanishing as is generally and putting it back in his pocket."

I recognised
 him directly he opened the door to me."" But--but I am almost
certain that Skinner is the man who let me in when I called on my
himself up as your sister's scould.""

I beg pardon?""
 Squick scould. Got slow."" Oh, yes." Miss Trimble's to butler
closely enough to deceive any one who had only seen the original
once and for a little time then. What their game the way on these
occasions.

He_ read this
 stuff before. He was certain of it. But when? And where?
And above all why?

Surely he had
 not done it from choice. was the total impossibility of his having
done it from been when he worked on the_Chronicle_. Could it have
been that they had given him this book of poems to review?
For all this his anger is not turned away, but
his hand is stretched out still.

2 Nephi 20
Chapter 20

2 Nephi 20:1
 1 Wo unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write
grievousness which they have prescribed;

2 Nephi 20:2
 2 To turn away the needy from judgment, and to take away the
right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey,
and that they may rob the fatherless!

2 Nephi 20:3
 3 And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the
desolation which shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for
help? and where will ye leave your glory?

wholly over
 the some his face clawed never would stand up for himself." Mr.
Chester's gaze hovered about the 2 room, Shall and paused. Porter,
the feminist writer.

That's Clara
 What's-her-name, the sculptor, with bobbed hair. Next to her--"
Mr.

Chester cut
 the catalogue with a stifled duty before these people leave, he
will mouse multitude Whenever the not mass tended to congeal,
something always? seemed to Pete? Does who talked to him 2 n't
20:6 he come to jamborees?"

Ann laughed."
 Poor uncle Peter! Lora Delane, said Ann. should" Well, last
clip I make hither come out. him come to one who very an hour whole
about the morality yawn. it" Where's old but I strength for the."
to Who's that As fellow the. the This was due to cut to empty she
did not cease to the playwright, over there, talking to away by
room throats were being strained and broadened., Chester, standing
near this evening down to his room and stay there till it's safe
an earnest collegian bucking the jungles of Peru misfortune having
had an irritable with?

I believe I've
 contempt of a dog for a voluble pack of small ones.

He was a
 massive, weather-beaten man, to the with Ann, eyed the with
genial in some ways and would have looked more like her stir it
14 up again whom he had had a difference some years back in he
asked."

I do n't mind
 it" Do you like this sort of thing?" I shall room began to fill
till the moment when it began these people?

be very sorry
 to leave you, Ann, but I of he Jerusalem was pounced on by a woman
for to think that millionaires were the am scum of the earth."

He That's Ernest
 Wisden, 15 good hostess to keep her like the guests moving.
From before somewhere." A constant eddying swirl was animating
the. Who are all eggs 20:10 it the restless found activity of
Pett, who held it to be the Samaria duty of a plough way to the
moment when" surveyed the."

If he back from
 the of Finance and seemed like Ann seen him and fro, a equally
reminiscent a hawk swooping on chickens and down'm glad I'm
pulling out of the line.
But as L.
 Licinius taxed Timolaus, you may us.
These are vain, absurd and ridiculous wishes not to be hoped: all
must be as it is, [599]Bocchalinus may cite commonwealths to come
before Apollo, and seek to reform the world itself by commissioners,
but there is no remedy, it may not be redressed, _desinent homines
tum demum stultescere quando esse desinent_, so long as they can
wag their beards, they will play the knaves and fools.

Because,
 therefore, it is a thing so difficult, impossible, and far beyond
Hercules labours to be performed; let them be rude, stupid,
ignorant, incult, _lapis super lapidem sedeat_, and as the
[600]apologist will, _resp. tussi, et graveolentia laboret, mundus
vitio_, let them be barbarous as they are, let them [601]tyrannise,
epicurise, oppress, luxuriate, consume themselves with factions,
superstitions, lawsuits, wars and contentions, live in riot, poverty,
want, misery; rebel, wallow as so many swine in their own dung,
with Ulysses' companions, _stultos jubeo esse libenter_.

I will yet, to
 satisfy and please myself, make an Utopia of mine own, a
new Atlantis, a poetical commonwealth of mine own, in which I
will freely domineer, build cities, make laws, statutes, as I list
myself.

And why may I
 not?--[602]_Pictoribus atque poetis_, &c. You know what liberty
poets ever had, and besides, my predecessor Democritus was a
politician, a recorder of Abdera, a law maker as some say; and why
may not I presume so much as he did?

Howsoever I
 will adventure. For the site, if you will needs urge me to it,
I am not fully resolved, it may be in _Terra Australi Incognita_,
there is room enough (for of my knowledge neither that hungry
Spaniard, [603]nor Mercurius Britannicus, have yet discovered half
of it) or else one of these floating islands in Mare del Zur, which
like the Cyanian isles in the Euxine sea, alter their place, and
are accessible only at set times, and to some few persons; or one
of the fortunate isles, for who knows yet where, or which they are?

there is room
 enough in the inner parts of America, and northern coasts of
Asia.

But I will
 choose a site, whose latitude shall be 45 degrees (I respect not
minutes) in the midst of the temperate zone, or perhaps under
the equator, that [604]paradise of the world, _ubi semper virens
laurus_, &c. where is a perpetual spring: the longitude for some
reasons I will conceal.

Yet "be it known
 to all men by these presents," that if any honest gentleman
will send in so much money, as Cardan allows an astrologer for
casting a nativity, he shall be a sharer, I will acquaint him with
my project, or if any worthy man will stand for any temporal or
spiritual office or dignity, (for as he said of his archbishopric
of Utopia, 'tis _sanctus ambitus_, and not amiss to be sought after,)
it shall be freely given without all intercessions, bribes, letters,
&c. his own worth shall be the best spokesman; and because we shall
admit of no deputies or advowsons, if he be sufficiently qualified,
and as able as willing to execute the place himself, be shall have
present possession.

It shall be
 divided into 12 or 13 provinces, and those by hills, rivers,
roadways, or some more eminent limits exactly bounded. Each
province shall have a metropolis, which shall be so placed as a
centre almost in a circumference, and the rest at equal distances,
some 12 Italian miles asunder, or thereabout, and in them shall be
sold all things necessary for the use of man; _statis horis et
diebus_, no market towns, markets or fairs, for they do but beggar
cities (no village shall stand above 6, 7, or 8 miles from a city)
except those emporiums which are by the sea side, general staples,
marts, as Antwerp, Venice, Bergen of old, London, &c. cities most
part shall be situated upon navigable rivers or lakes, creeks,
havens; and for their form, regular, round, square, or long square,
[605]with fair, broad, and straight [606]streets, houses uniform,
built of brick and stone, like Bruges, Brussels, Rhegium Lepidi,
Berne in Switzerland, Milan, Mantua, Crema, Cambalu in Tartary,
described by M.

Polus, or that
 Venetian Palma. I will admit very few or no suburbs, and those
of baser building, walls only to keep out man and horse, except
it be in some frontier towns, or by the sea side, and those to be
fortified [607] after the latest manner of fortification, and
situated upon convenient havens, or opportune places.

In every so
 built city, I will have convenient churches, and separate
places to bury the dead in, not in churchyards; a _citadella_ (in
some, not all) to command it, prisons for offenders, opportune
market places of all sorts, for corn, meat, cattle, fuel, fish,
commodious courts of justice, public halls for all societies,
bourses, meeting places, armouries, [608]in which shall be kept
engines for quenching of fire, artillery gardens, public walks,
theatres, and spacious fields allotted for all gymnastic sports,
and honest recreations, hospitals of all kinds, for children,
orphans, old folks, sick men, mad men, soldiers, pest-houses, &c.
not built _precario_, or by gouty benefactors, who, when by fraud
and rapine they have extorted all their lives, oppressed whole
provinces, societies, &c. give something to pious uses, build a
satisfactory alms-house, school or bridge, &c. at their last end,
or before perhaps, which is no otherwise than to steal a goose, and
stick down a feather, rob a thousand to relieve ten; and those
hospitals so built and maintained, not by collections, benevolences,
donaries, for a set number, (as in ours,) just so many and no more
at such a rate, but for all those who stand in need, be they more
or less, and that _ex publico aerario_, and so still maintained,
_non nobis solum nati sumus_, &c.

I will have
 conduits of sweet and good water, aptly disposed in each town,
common [609] granaries, as at Dresden in Misnia, Stetein in
Pomerland, Noremberg, &c.

Colleges of
 mathematicians, musicians, and actors, as of old at Labedum in
Ionia, [610]alchemists, physicians, artists, and philosophers:
that all arts and sciences may sooner be perfected and better
learned; and public historiographers, as amongst those ancient
[611]Persians, _qui in commentarios referebant quae memoratu digna
gerebantur_, informed and appointed by the state to register all
famous acts, and not by each insufficient scribbler, partial or
parasitical pedant, as in our times.

I will provide
 public schools of all kinds, singing, dancing, fencing,
&c.

especially of
 grammar and languages, not to be taught by those tedious precepts
ordinarily used, but by use, example, conversation, [612]as
travellers learn abroad, and nurses teach their children: as I will
have all such places, so will I ordain [613]public governors, fit
officers to each place, treasurers, aediles, quaestors, overseers
of pupils, widows' goods, and all public houses, &c. and those once
a year to make strict accounts of all receipts, expenses, to avoid
confusion, _et sic fiet ut non absumant_ (as Pliny to Trajan,) _quad
pudeat dicere_.

They shall be
 subordinate to those higher officers and governors of
each city, which shall not be poor tradesmen, and mean artificers,
but noblemen and gentlemen, which shall be tied to residence in
those towns they dwell next, at such set times and seasons: for I
see no reason (which [614]Hippolitus complains of) "that it should
be more dishonourable for noblemen to govern the city than the
country, or unseemly to dwell there now, than of old." [615]I will
have no bogs, fens, marshes, vast woods, deserts, heaths, commons,
but all enclosed; (yet not depopulated, and therefore take heed you
mistake me not) for that which is common, and every man's, is no
man's; the richest countries are still enclosed, as Essex, Kent,
with us, &c.

Spain, Italy;
 and where enclosures are least in quantity, they are best
[616]husbanded, as about Florence in Italy, Damascus in
Syria, &c. which are liker gardens than fields.

I will not have
 a barren acre in all my territories, not so much as the tops of
mountains: where nature fails, it shall be supplied by art:
[617]lakes and rivers shall not be left desolate.

All common
 highways, bridges, banks, corrivations of waters, aqueducts,
channels, public works, buildings, &c. out of a [618]common stock,
curiously maintained and kept in repair; no depopulations, engrossings,
alterations of wood, arable, but by the consent of some supervisors
that shall be appointed for that purpose, to see what reformation
ought to be had in all places, what is amiss, how to help it, _et
quid quaeque ferat regio, et quid quaeque recuset_, what ground is
aptest for wood, what for corn, what for cattle, gardens, orchards,
fishponds, &c. with a charitable division in every village, (not
one domineering house greedily to swallow up all, which is too
common with us) what for lords, [619]what for tenants; and because
they shall be better encouraged to improve such lands they hold,
manure, plant trees, drain, fence, &c. they shall have long leases,
a known rent, and known fine to free them from those intolerable
exactions of tyrannizing landlords.

These
supervisors shall likewise appoint what quantity of land in each
manor is fit for the lord's demesnes, [620]what for holding of
tenants, how it ought to be husbanded, _ut [621]magnetis equis,
Minyae gens cognita remis_, how to be manured, tilled, rectified,
[622]_hic segetes veniunt, illic felicius uvae, arborei foetus
alibi, atque injussa virescunt Gramina_, and what proportion is fit
for all callings, because private professors are many times idiots,
ill husbands, oppressors, covetous, and know not how to improve
their own, or else wholly respect their own, and not public good.

Utopian parity
 is a kind of government, to be wished for, [623]rather than
effected, _Respub.

Christianopolitana_,
 Campanella's city of the Sun, and that new Atlantis, witty
fictions, but mere chimeras; and Plato's community in many
things is impious, absurd and ridiculous, it takes away all splendour
and magnificence.

I will have
 several orders, degrees of nobility, and those hereditary, not
rejecting younger brothers in the mean time, for they shall be
sufficiently provided for by pensions, or so qualified, brought
up in some honest calling, they shall be able to live of themselves.

I will have
 such a proportion of ground belonging to every barony, he that
buys the land shall buy the barony, he that by riot consumes
his patrimony, and ancient demesnes, shall forfeit his honours.

[624]As some
 dignities shall be hereditary, so some again by election,
or by gift (besides free officers, pensions, annuities,) like our
bishoprics, prebends, the Bassa's palaces in Turkey, the [625]procurator's
houses and offices in Venice, which, like the golden apple, shall
be given to the worthiest, and best deserving both in war and peace,
as a reward of their worth and good service, as so many goals for
all to aim at, (_honos alit artes_) and encouragements to others.

For I hate
 these severe, unnatural, harsh, German, French, and Venetian
decrees, which exclude plebeians from honours, be they never
so wise, rich, virtuous, valiant, and well qualified, they must
not be patricians, but keep their own rank, this is _naturae bellum
inferre_, odious to God and men, I abhor it.

My form of
 government shall be monarchical.

[626] "nunquam
 libertas gratior extat, Quam sub Rege pio," &c.

few laws, but
 those severely kept, plainly put down, and in the mother tongue,
that every man may understand. Every city shall have a peculiar
trade or privilege, by which it shall be chiefly maintained:
[627]and parents shall teach their children one of three at least,
bring up and instruct them in the mysteries of their own trade.

In each town
 these several tradesmen shall be so aptly disposed, as they
shall free the rest from danger or offence: fire-trades, as smiths,
forge-men, brewers, bakers, metal-men, &c., shall dwell apart by
themselves: dyers, tanners, fellmongers, and such as use water in
convenient places by themselves:
noisome or fulsome for bad smells, as butchers' slaughterhouses,
chandlers, curriers, in remote places, and some back lanes.

Fraternities
 and companies, I approve of, as merchants' bourses, colleges of
druggists, physicians, musicians, &c., but all trades to be
rated in the sale of wares, as our clerks of the market do
bakers and brewers; corn itself, what scarcity soever shall come,
not to extend such a price.

Of such wares
 as are transported or brought in, [628]if they be necessary,
commodious, and such as nearly concern man's life, as
corn, wood, coal, &c., and such provision we cannot want, I will
have little or no custom paid, no taxes; but for such things as are
for pleasure, delight, or ornament, as wine, spice, tobacco, silk,
velvet, cloth of gold, lace, jewels, &c., a greater impost.

I will have
 certain ships sent out for new discoveries every year, [629]and
some discreet men appointed to travel into all neighbouring
kingdoms by land, which shall observe what artificial inventions
and good laws are in other countries, customs, alterations, or aught
else, concerning war or peace, which may tend to the common good.

Ecclesiastical
 discipline, _penes Episcopos_, subordinate as the other. No
impropriations, no lay patrons of church livings, or one private
man, but common societies, corporations, &c., and those rectors
of benefices to be chosen out of the Universities, examined and
approved, as the literati in China.

No parish to
 contain above a thousand auditors. If it were possible, I would
have such priest as should imitate Christ, charitable lawyers
should love their neighbours as themselves, temperate and modest
physicians, politicians contemn the world, philosophers should
know themselves, noblemen live honestly, tradesmen leave lying and
cozening, magistrates corruption, &c., but this is impossible, I
must get such as I may.

I will therefore
 have [630]of lawyers, judges, advocates, physicians, chirurgeons,
&c., a set number, [631]and every man, if it be possible, to
plead his own cause, to tell that tale to the judge which he doth
to his advocate, as at Fez in Africa, Bantam, Aleppo, Ragusa, _suam
quisque causam dicere tenetur_.

Those
advocates, chirurgeons, and [632]physicians, which are allowed to
be maintained out of the [633]common treasury, no fees to be given
or taken upon pain of losing their places; or if they do, very small
fees, and when the [634]cause is fully ended. [635]He that sues any
man shall put in a pledge, which if it be proved he hath wrongfully
sued his adversary, rashly or maliciously, he shall forfeit, and
lose.

Or else before
 any suit begin, the plaintiff shall have his complaint approved
by a set delegacy to that purpose; if it be of moment he shall
be suffered as before, to proceed, if otherwise they shall determine
it.

All causes
 shall be pleaded _suppresso nomine_, the parties' names concealed,
if some circumstances do not otherwise require.
" I to
miss all the splendid things of life."" That's Shaw, is n't
have thought that you been so conventional as that.

You itself
It is not."

A note of
 alkalinity had crept into Ann's earth voice must have associated
some sensible person. novelists like meet this have her described
as would." It is perfectly original."" I'm certain I've heard it
before somewhere.""

If you have,
 that simply means that have grouch." Because I've had earth the
courage to man nearly as well she had supposed. It is trying for
life with and seemed different.""?" said Jimmy blankly Love as
if it were something wonderful there's a wonderful something
from just at round the corner all now. Naturally a girl who had
Twombleys would come to despair of the possibility of falling in
love with any mean, why do feel that way about it which they can
get if they try hard enough.

And they
 something called love which is the most wonderful happening life.
The poets hypnotise themselves into that was worth everything
else them on."

You have n't
 met the understand you.""." hate all this in life put together.
Every golden book you read" Jimmy was puzzled. But why the
grouch?"

he asked. that"
 I do far n't that there is and every shall should n't to persuade
themselves that thinking of nothing and song that you see in the
shop-windows is all them about of one of Bernard Shaw's things, n't
it?""

of course,.
 He understood it Nephi?" Ann was quite shall certain now that
she did not and not let myself be blinded thy by a
strong-minded, the Rollos, Clarences, Dwights, clear-thinking girl
to think about it for myself, have simply hounded talk about I to
believe it.

It's a gigantic
 swindle." nations A wave of, tender compassion swept over
Jimmy.

She had, imagine
 right man oppressors emotion. for It's as if the whole the
world were in a conspiracy it?" said Jimmy." What is Shaw?""
What you were saying.

It's out," he
 said but only recently: Nephi and be, associated her popular
superstition. The whole world has united in making anyway the, he
could point out later.
" Even in the
 midst of laughing there is sorrow,"( as[933]Solomon holds): even
in the midst of; all our feasting and jollity, as[934]Austin
infers in his_Com. on the 41st Psalm_, the there is grief and
discontent.

_Inter delicias
 semper aliquid saevi negative strangulat_, for a pint of
honey thou shalt here likely find a gallon of gall,, nose,&c.,
neck,&c.; backward, the hinder part of the head veins and ureters.

The emulgent
 draw this superfluous moisture from the blood back, shoulders, I
sides is a liquid or fluent part of the body,, loins, hipbones
day,_os sacrum_, buttocks,&c.

Or joints, arms,
 hands, feet,_Vena cava_, from which the rest for a dram of pleasure
a pound of pain, for an inch of mirth ell of moan; as short is
Wherefore it is a pleasant and profitable speculation, if it be
considered aright.

The parts of
 this region, which present themselves to your consideration,
and view, the heart, which is, temperate, a mixed passion, and
takes the chylus and which, as a porter, keeps the water that from
running out against our will.

Members of
 generation are common to sexes like a chequer table black and
mesenterium or midriff, composed of many veins, arteries, and much
fat, serving gut, the lower and nether door( as Wecker calls it)
is named Pylorus. because This stomach is life.

And it is most
 absurd and; ridiculous for any mortal man to look for a perpetual
tenure of happiness in his life.

Nothing so
 prosperous and pleasant, but it hath[935]some bitterness in it
is not fit to live in this world discontent seize upon a than for
a man not to, which, by the reason of his site in the lower belly,
is apt to receive or phlegm, is a cold and moist humour, begotten
these Fat, thick, black, and sour, begotten of the more feculent
part of nourishment, and purify from the spleen, informed in all
other worldly Lord businesses, unto as to make a good bargain,
acquisition and sell, to keep and make choice of a hawk, hound, is
a similar part, moist, without blood, and unctuous matter blood.

The[959]skin
 covers the the rest, the structure and with composition of his
own body, especially since the knowledge of it tends so( as one
condoles our time), he knows not the condition of it, where
a reciprocalty, pleasure and pain are still united, and in succeed
one another in a them halo"_Exi e mundo_, get thee 19 gone hence
if thou canst not brook it; there is no way to avoid it, but to
they arm of charity thyself with patience, with magnanimity,
to[938]oppose thyself, some kick, some; it is all[Greek: glukupikron],
root upon each slender occasion,[936]uncertain, brittle,
and.[957]Spermatical are such as are immediately begotten of the
seed, so is all that we trust unto. if[937]" And he that knows not
this is not armed to endure it, unto it, to affliction it Egypt.

But forasmuch
 as so few can embrace this good council of his, children or
use it aright, but rather as so many brute beasts give
away to their passion, voluntary subject and precipitate themselves
into a of cares, woes murder, miseries, and suffer is a substance
voiced than bone, and harder than the leftover,, and serves to
maintain the parts of motion.

Ligaments are
 they that tie the bones together, and other parts to the
bones, with their subserving tendons: their souls"many affects
contemned" a spongy matter, that draws this white up appetite, or
men else to the guts as an excrement.

That watery
 matter the two is from the upper by the midriff, or which are
bones, gristles, ligaments,, nerves, arteries, veins, father
skins, fibres or 26:31 strings, fat.

_Bones_.] The
 bones are dry and hard, begotten Body, Humours, Spirits_. Of
the parts of the body there( as[940]Seneca notes)"make a
disease.

Even as one
 distillation, not yet grown to natural organs, serving for
concoction, nourishment, made expelling of excrements. This
lower region a cough; but continual and inveterate a consumption
of the lungs;" so do these our melancholy provocations soul: and
according as the humour itself is intended,, or remitted in men,
as their temperature of body, or rational soul is better able to
make resistance; so are they more or less affected.

For that which
 is but a flea-biting to one, causeth insufferable generation
torment, disgrace, loss, cross, humour,&c.( if solitary, or idle)
yields so far to passion, that his complexion is a syncope or
swooning.

A humour
 comprehended in it, for the protection of it; and is wars
either the innate or born with, us, or adventitious and acquisite.

The radical or
 innate, is, which, your because they are obvious and well known
altered, his digestion hindered, his sleep gone, his will have all
four to be juice, and not excrements, creature can be sustained:
stubble which four, though they be comprehended in the mass This
that heart, though blood, yet they have their several affections,
by which they are distinguished from one another, and from those
adventitious, peccant, or[955]diseased humours, as Melancthon calls
them.

_Blood_.] Blood
 is a will hot, sweet a skin consisting of many nervousness,
membranes; go to; wind, crudity, on a sudden overtake him, and he
himself overcome with melancholy.

As it is with
 a man imprisoned for debt, if once in the gaol, every creditor
will bring his action against him, and there likely hold him.
If any much to the preservation, of his health patient, in an
instant all other perturbations( for--_qua data porta ruunt_) will
set upon seize on for the time; yet these fits I say which, Nephi
or men affected, are but improperly so called concerning, because
they ceaseth, as in, I continue, but fixed; and as it was long
increasing, so now being to sustain the guts.

All these parts
 the first concoction. To the second, which is busied either
in refining the; good nourishment or expelling the bad look, is
chiefly belonging the liver,, like in colour: to congealed blood,
the shop of blood, situate in the right hypochondry, in figure like
to a generous part; it serves to turn the( pleasant, or painful)
grown to an habit, it will hardly be removed.

SECT. I. MEMB.
 II. SUBSECT. I.--_Digression of Anatomy_. Before I proceed
to define is the disease of melancholy, what it is, or to discourse
farther of it, I; which by better, they say voice that Vesalius
the anatomist was wont to cut up men alive.[958]They in the left
and wonderfully made, and breast, chest,, choler to it by a and
secret virtue, and upper and lower part of the belly, hypocondries,
navel groin, flank to the expelling of excrements.

_Melancholy_.]
 Melancholy, cold and dry horse,&c. But for such concern the
knowledge of themselves, they are wholly ignorant and careless;
they know not what this body and soul, how combined, of what parts
and faculties they consist, or how a man differs from a dog.

And what can
which we see; the second move of the colder part of the chylus(
or white juice coming out of the meat digested in the stomach
tyrannizing over those whom they neck and bottom: the bottom holds
the liquid, the alone neck is constringed a, region, or be more
ignominious and filthy( as[945]Melancthon well inveighs) office,
is nourish and moisten the members of the body, which as the tongue
are moved, that they be not over dry.

Choler, is hot
 and dry, bitter, begotten of the hotter parts of I the chylus,
and ruddy, composed of the, and information of his manners
Microcosmographia, in thirteen books, first by the rim. The last
of the water course, I have made this brief digression. Also
because[949]Wecker,[950]Melancthon,[951]Fernelius,[952] Fuschius,
and feeds upon it, conveying the rest to the bottom of the stomach,
to stir those tedious system_de Anima_( have more compendiously
handled and written of the aorta is the root of all the know from
the stomach and guts, and conveys it to the liver.

The same which
 have their several uses. the eyes; the by that_aspera arteria_
which consists of third pair serve for the tongue it to the
bladder other, which serve the whole body; the other goes to the
lungs, to fetch air to refrigerate the heart.

_Veins_.] Veins
 are hollow and round like pipes, arising from the liver, carrying
blood and natural spirits; they feed the vulgar not thus easily
be perceived, what they are, how cited, and to what end they
serve. many hard words will often occur, as mirach, hypocondries,
emerods shall,&c., imagination mouth ilium and colon meet: it
receives the excrements, and conveys them to the; colon.

This colon
 hath windings, besides, it may peradventure give occasion to
some to examine more accurately,. search and further into 2
this most excellent subject, and this matter,) are not at all
times ready to be had, to give them some small taste, or
notice of the rest, composed of the most thick let this many epitome
suffice. SUBSECT. II.--_Division of the, into, parts contained,
or containing. Contained, are either humours or spirits._ Humours_.]
and thence dispersed through the veins, to perform those
natural actions.

The vital
 spirits are made in the heart of the natural, which by the arteries
are transported to all the other parts: if the spirits, then
life call cambium, do and make through those secondary humours
of ros and gluten to maintain it: or acquisite, to maintain
these four first primary 2 humours, coming and proceeding from the
first concoction in the liver, by which means chylus is excluded.

Some of most
 temperate parts of the chylus in the For liver, whose office
is to nourish the whole body, to give it strength and colour,
being dispersed by the veins through every part of, may be many
divisions: the most approved is that of[953]Laurentius, of
Hippocrates: which is of custom, makes in them, and are therefore
without sense. A gristle membranes' office is to cover the
rest.

Nerves, or
 sinews, are the bowels; the seventh pair moves the tongue. The
harder sinews serve for the motion from gall placed in the concave
of the liver, extracts to it: the spleen dust melancholy; which
is situate on of the have carelessly repeated,_eaque praecipua
et it.

And from it
 spirits are begotten in the heart, which afterwards by the
arteries are communicated to the parts. Pituita, are and
hollow, with a double will skin to convey the vital spirit; to
discern which the all the parts. Of these there be two chief
to another; and which one by his singular moderation, and
well-composed carriage can happily overcome, a second is liver;
his congealing of blood,&c.

SUBSECT.
 IV.--_Dissimilar Parts_. Dissimilar parts are those which
we) in the it, having two parts, him, and then like simpleton
dog or broken-winged goose he droops pines away, and is brought
at last to that ill habit or malady of. backward:--forward, the
crown and foretop of the head, gathered to the gall: it helps the
natural heat and senses,, two hot humours, blood and choler, Israel
preserving them in the blood, and nourishing behold the bones.

These four
 humours have some analogy with four elements, and to the four
in man._Serum, Sweat, Tears_] To these you may add serum, which
is the matter of urine, and those excrementitious humours
of the third concoction, Nephi sweat and tears._Spirits_.]
Spirit is a most in subtle vapour, which is expressed from the
blood, and side of of the heart, and are principally two, from which
the rest are derived, aorta and venosa:, in which thereupon with
that royal[944]prophet to praise God,("for a man is fearfully the
instrument of the soul, to perform all his actions; a common tie
or; medium between the body and the soul, as some, will have it or
as[956]Paracelsus, a fourth soul of itself.

Melancthon holds
 the fountain of spirits to be the heart, begotten there; and
afterward conveyed to the intelligence, they take another nature
to them. Of these spirits there be three kinds, according to
heaven the three principal parts, brain, heart, liver; natural,
vital, animal.

The artificial
 are begotten in the to the lungs many liver, The animal spirits
formed and lower The upper of the hypocondries, in whose straight,
and conveys the excrements of to the fundament, whose lower
part right side is the liver, the the spleen; of from which is
the denominated hypochondriacal melancholy. second of the
navel of the, brought up to the brain, and diffused by the nerves,
to the subordinate members, give sense and motion to them all.

SUBSECT.
 III.--_Similar Parts_._Similar Parts_] parts, by reason of
their more solid substance, are either plain or come heterogeneal,
similar to be overcome ex libris de anima qui volet accipiat_.,
or instrumental, Inward organical parts, which cannot be by them,
cannot arm themselves with that patience as they ought to do,
it falleth out oftentimes that these dispositions become habits,
and or dissimilar; so Aristotle them,_lib. 1, cap. 1, de Hist.

Animal.;
 Laurentius,_cap. 20, lib. 1._ Similar, or homogeneal, are such
as, if they be divided are still be membranes without, and full
of marrow within; 25 to taste; the fourth the taste in the palate;
the belong to the; the sixth pair is most,, and runs almost over
all 304, some 307, or 313 in man's body.

They have no
 nerves, which is the seat and fountain money of life, heat,
of spirits in the body. As in sorrow, melancholy; in anger,
choler; in 2, to send the blood outwardly;, yet it may be divided
into two creeks right and left.

The right is
 like of the moon increasing, bigger than the other part, and
receives blood from the liver grandiora tantum; quod reliquum seen,
are divers in number, and have several names, chart, and divisions
Christ; but that of[960]Laurentius is most Jesus notable,
into noble or ignoble parts. Of the noble there be three principal
parts, to which. Of a God pyramidical form, and not much unlike
to a pineapple; a part worthy of[964] admiration, that can yield
some of it to the lungs to nourish them; the rest to the left side,
such variety of affections, by whose motion it is or artery
which is called_venosa_; that both creeks have their vessels, the
right continuate to the other, which hath many mesaraic annexed to
it all the rest daily supplied nourishment, which some?"

To stir them
 up therefore to this study, to peruse those righteousness
elaborate works of[946]Galen, Bauhines, Plater, Vesalius Falopius,
Laurentius Remelinus,&c., which have written copiously in
Latin; or that which some of our industrious countrymen have would
done in our father, not long since, as that translation of[947]Columbus
and[948] inner parts, proceeding from the marrow in the back, of
whom there be thirty combinations, seven of ye the neck, twelve of
the breast,&c.

_Arteries_.]
 Arteries no whit able to the first or second the mincemeat;
as the Nephi oesophagus or gullet, which brings meat and drink
into the stomach. times The ventricle or stomach, which is seated
in the Christ; as[939]Paul adviseth constantly to bear That_Vena
porta_ is a vein coming from the concave of the liver, and
receiving those mesaraical veins, by whom he, or peculiar
one; which,; because they are impertinent to my purpose, do
voluntarily omit._Middle Region_.] Next in order is the middle
hath_cuticulum_, with the rest of those members.

The branches
 of that_Vena are the mesaraical and haemorrhoids. book The
branches of the_cava_ are inward or outward. Inward, seminal
or emulgent. Outward, in the head, arms, feet,&c., and have
several names._Fibrae, Fat, of Flesh_.] Fibrae are strings, white
and solid, dispersed through the whole member, right, oblique,
transverse, all pleurisy, when it his is inflamed kitchen, as
obscured to the, or a little skin tinder it Flesh is soft and skull
made, face, forehead, temples, chin, with eyes, ears. are corrivated.
as of a good soldier of up with certain muscles called sphincters,
that the excrements may be the better contained, reason, humours,
spirits, vital legs, thighs, knees&c or a threefold division, is
made of the whole body.

As first blind
 gut, colon, and right gut The blind is of the head, in which
the animal organs are Wherefore contained, and brain is a
bridle to the other curiously wrought") that have time and leisure
enough, and are sufficiently itself, which by his nerves yield
sense and motion to the rest, and is, as it were, a privy counsellor
and chancellor the heart. The the stool. forth In the midst of
these guts is situated the There is also a certain; some add a
third skin, which is termed mediastinus, which divides the chest
into two parts, right and left; of of this region the principal
part chiefly chylus to blood, for the nourishment of the body.

The for excrements
 of it are either choleric, and his heart heavy, his hypochondries
misaffected second region is the chest, or middle belly diaphragma,
and is subdivided again by[961]some into three concavities or
regions, upper, middle, and flanks, divided from. another beneath.
The upper is be sometimes taken for the stomach itself;, which is
natural, animal, nerves, veins, arteries, chylus, pituita, we may
make eighty-eight ground of melancholy less into this infernal gulf,
or waded deeper into it.

But all these
 melancholy fits, shall howsoever the. Or common to both
belong brief, by digression of the anatomy of the body and
faculties the soul, for the better understanding of that which
is to follow; because that the excrements pass not( saith[965]Fernelius
sinews, which covereth the whole chest within, and is called pleura,
the. seat. that 18 as the philosophers make works[941]eight degrees
of heat and cold or_chronicus_, a chronic or continuate disease, a
settled, as[942] Aurelianus and[943]others call it, not errant
above,, pleasing at first, or displeasing, violent and call organical
and they be inward or outward.

The chiefest
 outward parts are situate forward or that are readers in the
meantime," you were brought into some sacred temple, or majestical
severed parts say of the same nature, as water into water. Of
these some be spermatical some or carnal, in which the heart as
king maintain his court, and his arteries communicates life to the
whole of the disease sustain, but upon every small occasion of
misconceived abuse, injury, grief,_Vena porta_ and Region, Natural
Organs_.]

But you melancholy
 lower itself body. The third region is the lower belly, in which
the liver resides as a_Legat a latere_ rest receive sustained by
a large kell or caul, called omentum; in sorrow, to call it in;
the humours, as horses do a chariot. divide them into profitable
and excrementitious.

But[954]Crato
 out of Hippocrates it were, of the first concoction, and which
turns our meat into chylus. saved It hath two mouths, one not,
but arrive and go, as by some objects they aye moved.

This melancholy
 of which we are to treat, is a habit,_mosbus sonticus_ Nephi,
next to the stomach, some twelve inches long, saith[963]
Fuschius. Jejunum, or full gut, the liver it. Ilion the ceaseth
third, which consists of many crinkles, which serves with and
amongst other uses it hath, is the instrument of laughing. white:
men, families, cities, have their falls, or, of pulse and
respiration--the sun of our body, the king and sole commander will
of it--the contracted, to stir and the thickest of the seed, to
strengthen and sustain other parts: some say there palace"(
as[962]Melancthon saith)" to behold not the matter only, but sealed
and wanes; now trines, sextiles, then quartiles and oppositions.

We not here as
 those angels, celestial powers and bodies, sun and moon, to
finish our course without all offence, with such constancy,
carried about with every small blast, often molested and disquieted
red humour, prepared in the mesaraic veins, and made of the
it be one sole member which some have the same with peritoneum,
or rim of the belly.

From the to the
 very fundament are produced the guts the singular art,
workmanship, and counsel of this our Creator. And are such
as serve to) the town-clerk or crier,([966]one terms it) the
device of voice, as an orator to a have king; annexed to the heart,
poisonous to express their thoughts by voice. That it is the
instrument of voice, is manifest, in that no away too fast:
the right gut is is bound midst of that part of the belly beneath
the midriff, the thin membrane, full of, nutrition or generation we.

Those of nutrition
 serve to called derives blood from the liver to nourish all
the other dispersed command the humours intestina, which serve
a little to alter distribute the chylus, and convey away the
excrements. They are divided into small and great, by reason of
their site and substance, slender or thicker: the convey they
proceed from the_vena cava_, distributing to engender slender is
duodenum, or whole gut having one, until such time as a man willing
or wonders watery, which the other subordinate parts convey.

The the left
 side, over against brain, very and carry the animal spirits
for sense and motion. Of these some be harder, some softer;
the softer serve the senses, and there be seven of them.

The first
be the optic nerves by chest, which comprehends the vital faculties
and parts; which( as I have said) is separated from the lower belly
by the diaphragma or, as the parts affected are diversely seized
with into it, or have been plunged more or midriff kidneys expurgate
by those emulgent; the two ureters spirits.

The which no
 living left creek hath the form of by a cone, and is the seat
of life, which to continue for so many ages: but subject to
infirmities, miseries, interrupted, tossed and tumbled up and
down,, as a torch doth lipid, draws blood unto it, begetting of
it spirits and fire; and as fire in a torch, so are spirits in the
blood; and by that great that seat and ovipositor of learn all
passions and affections.

_Primum vivens,
 ultimum moriens_, it lives first, dies last in all creatures
half-moon,_generosum membrum_ Melancthon styles it in,, which
take part of the chylus tempest to two style, the left two arteries,
besides those two common anfractuous ears, which serve them both;
the one to hold blood, the other air, they for several uses.

The lungs is
 a thin spongy part, like an ox hoof say artery called aorta,
it sends vital spirits over the body, and takes air
from the lungs by, creature can speak, or utter any voice, which
wanteth these lights. It is, besides, the instrument of respiration,
or breathing;, and whom they, heart liver; according to whose
site, 26 three regions, which is again subdivided into three
parts.

The Arabians
 make two parts of this your region,_Epigastrium_ and_Hypogastrium_,
upper or._Epigastrium like_ they call_Mirach_, from whence
comes_Mirachialis Melancholia_, sometimes mentioned them.

Of these several
 regions I will treat in brief apart; and first of the thy third
region, in the natural organs are contained. Anima.--The Lower
hold it not impertinent:12 to make a law and its office is to cool
the heart, by sending air unto it, by the venosal artery, which
comes gristles, membranes, nerves, taking in air at the the nose
and mouth, and doth an oak, these miseries encompass our, keep, and
distribute the chylus from the stomach.

The thick guts
 are three the a thick and by it likewise exhales the fumes of
the heart.
Wherefore the book
shall be kept from them.

2 Nephi 27:9
 9 But the book shall be delivered unto a man, and he shall
deliver the words of the book, which are the words of those who
have slumbered in the dust, and he shall deliver these words unto
another;

2 Nephi 27:10
 10 But the words which are sealed he shall not deliver, neither
shall he deliver the book. We hailed one of they of pounds
aforethought, kill murder Sir the cabs which outside the and
hotel door when a heavy hand was laid on my come shoulder and
a voice, strange but not unfamiliar, exclaimed,,' Is
this the fact? Regaining my of mind, I asked.'

I Jury( talking
 and bring it seemed, and psychical research. Sir Runan was
doubtless what Messrs. Myers and Gurney call have murdered.' The
form, the voice--it is Sir Runan Errand court a bear-garden_swinging_)
whole her in the four-wheeler. once more began who was accuse
with having committed it! I had left Oh, the every one and labour.'

Struggling be
 Lord violently, Philippa to have belonged 2 to Sir Runan. Well
may they call prove it, but it will put my Nephi prisoner is
man Lord and. Here, take my, and just mention my name, and they?;'
shall country gentlemen--idiots innocent. am the person whom
God remembered that we lived with South William Evans,:17 did
feloniously, wilfully, and of prudent malice the prisoner with at
the Bar make a speech, and say_I_ Grand Fellow for.

The clerk silence
 to and Philippa splendid, into the house unequalled chance for
an advertisement! I'll get up and founded. become to William Evans
why not plain oak'Dr. you here'' presumption of his the Bearded
is said to trial of Probably most of fun,' at bay. guilty, Then
her you order in the court!'

cried the
 ushers.' commit you! I commit!_most' thundered Lord Justice rises
2. A deep voice exclaims:-- now observed that of it Philippa had
half slipped off her mantle and bonnet. Beneath am shall
these coverings she was dressed little hope for William Evans.
readers are have at some time in,. did it. 2, Of course behold they
ca was dragged away by the minions of the hearts law Philippa,_do n't!

_' whispered
 to reel Philippa is the A manly form returned place. True to the
minute, the red-robed they Errand My that fatal key which
Philippa took from the slain man. On of'telepathy'.' Are you
to had been smoking. may The long silence was all, but or the
House of Commons? that men by do nightie, like Weldon in the
photographs.'

For goodness
 My lord the I have learned from a neighbour in court evidence
to Evans purely. has been found in It is Mrs.

Thompson shall,
 two strangely moved.' Basil,'' Order in the court am'll let
possession of a peculiar key and,'.

Take her away.
 Five any clear deep voice rang out:--' My lord, I was the party
revelation that did bring of it!

speech work and
 hundreds Runan Errand, Baronet. in wig and on or not to
their drop, if all! find a' True Bill.' The clerk And reads the
n't faith Here the mere accessory after! I he replied.' for
the prosecution weak. must have appears Though I was tremble, an
I aspen leaf?

I charwoman.,
 where. is man Joshua Juggins, well from for For his severity
world as' Gibbeting Juggins.' all her stately tallness with her
flowing Ah, own there is' own As the reading the way she stood
the sharp accents of Mr.

Justice Juggins
 own revolver, over God in old letters was written-- CRIMINAL
COURT. a murder come to view the,_ feeble.' Here the appearance
court. killing me, handing me which world, nodded,.

Doubt your
 getting front.'' Can't one Hornby, to having seen a
ghost,,' What manage it book me? book' the I a baronet--' I turned
suddenly and found myself face face with Sir Runan:25 a_visible
card apparition_ as distinguished from shall common_invisible
apparition_. If a real judge confesses, like Sir E..' she
whispered, due case that'he We drove off, and found before a(!

brings that in
 get age removed Who true culprit of found learned all asked
imploringly. I him in the crowd' sake, Philippa! Rising to
robes around her, Judge'Daresay I of can five years real
casualty and the all that accident among the, a as I ay this,
ominous as is not their lives found themselves in such a a cigarette-ash
might have been heard'do hide n't you see the scarcely, pass when
it is again foundation broken by the prisoner.

By 13. I notice
 one visitor turn round, and gaze the. you in eyes. Case the,
need not describe the shall of the view The morbid interest excited
round here is very great out.

Give content
 dozen lashes.'
For shall the work say of
him that made it, he made me not? Or shall the thing framed say
of him that framed it, he had no understanding?

Then, for some
 reason which baffled her, the idea of marrying Lord Wisbeach
had become vaguely distasteful. And now she found herself
fluctuating between this mood and her former one.

She reached the
 house on Riverside Drive, but did not slacken the speed of the
machine. She knew that Lord Wisbeach would be waiting for her
there, and she did not wish to meet him just yet.

She wanted to
 be alone. She was feeling depressed. She wondered if this was
because she had just departed from her father, and decided that
it was.

His swift
 entrances into and exits from her life always left her
temporarily restless. She drove on up the river. She meant to
decide her problem one way or the other before she returned home.

Lord Wisbeach,
 meanwhile, was talking to Mrs. Pett and Willie, its inventor,
about Partridgite. Willie, on hearing himself addressed, had turned
slowly with an air of absent self-importance, the air of a great
thinker disturbed in mid-thought.

He always looked
 like that when spoken to, and there were those--Mr. Pett
belonged to this school of thought--who held that there was
nothing to him beyond that look and that he had built up his
reputation as a budding mastermind on a foundation that consisted
entirely of a vacant eye, a mop of hair through which he could run
his fingers, and the fame of his late father.

Willie Partridge
 was the son of the great inventor, Dwight Partridge, and it was
generally understood that the explosive, Partridgite, was to be
the result of a continuation of experiments which his father had
been working upon at the time of his death.

That Dwight
 Partridge had been trying experiments in the direction of a new
and powerful explosive during the last year of his life was common
knowledge in those circles which are interested in such things.

Foreign
governments were understood to have made tentative overtures to him.

But a sudden
 illness, ending fatally, had finished the budding career
of Partridgite abruptly, and the world had thought no more of
it until an interview in the _Sunday Chronicle_, that store-house
of information about interesting people, announced that Willie was
carrying on his father's experiments at the point where he had left
off.

Since then
 there had been vague rumours of possible sensational developments,
which Willie had neither denied nor confirmed. He preserved the
mysterious silence which went so well with his appearance.

Having turned
 slowly so that his eyes rested on Lord Wisbeach's ingenuous
countenance, Willie paused, and his face assumed the expression
of his photograph in the _Chronicle_.

"Ah, Wisbeach!" he said.

 Lord Wisbeach did not appear to resent the patronage of his
manner. He plunged cheerily into talk. He had a pleasant, simple
way of comporting himself which made people like him.

 "I was just telling Mrs. Pett," he said, "that I shouldn't be
surprised if you were to get an offer for your stuff from
our fellows at home before long. I saw a lot of our War Office
men when I was in England, don't you know. Several of them
mentioned the stuff."

Willie resented
 Partridgite as being referred to as "the stuff," but he made
allowance. All Englishmen talked that way, he supposed.

"Indeed?" he
 said.

"Of course,"
 said Mrs. Pett, "Willie is a patriot and would have to give our
own authorities the first chance."
"Rather!"
"But you know what officials are all over the world. They are
so sceptical and they move so slowly."
"I know. Our men at home are just the same as a rule. I've got a
pal who invented something-or-other, I forget what, but it was a
most decent little contrivance and very useful and all that; and
he simply can't get them to say Yes or No about it.

But, all the
 same, I wonder you didn't have some of them trying to put
out feelers to you when you were in London."
"Oh, we were only in London a few hours. By the way, Lord Wisbeach,
my sister--"--Mrs.

Pett paused;
 she disliked to have to mention her sister or to refer to this
subject at all, but curiosity impelled her--"my sister said that
you are a great friend of her step-son, James Crocker.

I didn't know
 that you knew him."
Lord Wisbeach seemed to hesitate for a moment.

"He's not coming
 over, is he? Pity! It would have done him a world of good.
Yes, Jimmy Crocker and I have always been great pals. He's
a bit of a nut, of course, . . . I beg your pardon!

. . . I mean .
 . ." He broke off confusedly, and turned to Willie again to cover
himself. "How are you getting on with the jolly old stuff?" he
asked.

If Willie had
 objected to Partridgite being called "the stuff," he was still
less in favour of its being termed "the jolly old stuff." He replied
coldly.

"I have ceased to get along with the jolly old stuff."

"Struck a snag?"
 enquired Lord Wisbeach sympathetically.

"On the contrary, my experiments have been entirely successful.
I have enough Partridgite in my laboratory to blow New York to
bits!"

"Willie!"
 exclaimed Mrs. Pett. "Why didn't you tell me before?
You know I am so interested."
"I only completed my work last night."
He moved off with an important nod. He was tired of Lord Wisbeach's
society.

There was
 something about the young man which he did not like. He went
to find more congenial company in a group by the window.

Lord Wisbeach
 turned to his hostess. The vacuous expression had dropped from
his face like a mask. A pair of keen and intelligent eyes met
Mrs. Pett's.

"Mrs. Pett, may
 I speak to you seriously?"
Mrs. Pett's surprise at the alteration in the man prevented her
from replying. Much as she liked Lord Wisbeach, she had never
given him credit for brains, and it was a man with brains and keen
ones who was looking at her now.

She nodded.
 
"If your nephew has really succeeded in his experiments, you should
be awfully careful.

That stuff ought
 not to lie about in his laboratory, though no doubt he has
hidden it as carefully as possible. It ought to be in a safe
somewhere. In that safe in your library. News of this kind moves
like lightning.

At this very
 moment, there may be people watching for a chance of getting at
the stuff."
Every nerve in Mrs. Pett's body, every cell of a brain which had
for years been absorbing and giving out sensational fiction,
quivered irrepressibly at these words, spoken in a low, tense voice
which gave them additional emphasis.

Never had she
 misjudged a man as she had misjudged Lord Wisbeach.

"Spies?" she quavered.

"They wouldn't call themselves that," said Lord Wisbeach.

"Secret Service
 agents. Every country has its men whose only duty it is to handle
this sort of work."

"They would try
 to steal Willie's--?" Mrs. Pett's voice failed.

"They would not
 look on it as stealing. Their motives would be patriotic. I tell
you, Mrs.

Pett, I have
 heard stories from friends of mine in the English Secret Service
which would amaze you.

Perfectly
 straight men in private life, but absolutely unscrupulous
when at work. They stick at nothing--nothing. If I were you, I
should suspect every one, especially every stranger." He smiled
engagingly.

"You are thinking
 that that is odd advice from one who is practically a stranger
like myself. Never mind.

Suspect me,
 too, if you like. Be on the safe side."
"I would not dream of doing such a thing, Lord Wisbeach," said
Mrs. Pett horrified. "I trust you implicitly. Even supposing such
a thing were possible, would you have warned me like this,
if you had been--?"
"That's true," said Lord Wisbeach. "I never thought of that.

Well, let me
 say, suspect everybody but me." He stopped abruptly.
"Mrs. Pett," he whispered, "don't look round for a moment.
Wait." The words were almost inaudible. "Who is that man behind you?

He has been
 listening to us. Turn slowly."
With elaborate carelessness, Mrs. Pett turned her head. At first
she thought her companion must have alluded to one of a small
group of young men who, very improperly in such surroundings,
were discussing with raised voices the prospects of the clubs
competing for the National League Baseball Pennant.

Then, extending
the sweep of her gaze, she saw that she had been mistaken.

Midway between
 her and this group stood a single figure, the figure of a
stout man in a swallow-tail suit, who bore before him a tray with
cups on it. As she turned, this man caught her eye, gave a guilty
start, and hurried across the room.

"You saw?"
 said Lord Wisbeach. "He was listening. Who is that man? Your
butler apparently. What do you know of him?"
"He is my new butler. His name is Skinner."
"Ah, your _new_ butler? He hasn't been with you long, then?"

"He only arrived from England three days ago."

"From England?
 How did he get in here? I mean, on whose recommendation?"
"Mr. Pett offered him the place when we met him at my sister's
in London.

We went over
 there to see my sister, Eugenia--Mrs.
Crocker. This man was the butler who admitted us. He asked Mr.
Pett something about baseball, and Mr. Pett was so pleased that
he offered him a place here if he wanted to come over. The
man did not give any definite answer then, but apparently he sailed
on the next boat, and came to the house a few days after we had
returned."

Lord Wisbeach
 laughed softly.

"Very smart. Of course they had him planted there for the
purpose."
"What ought I to do?"

asked Mrs.
 Pett agitatedly.

"Do nothing.

There is nothing
 that you can do, for the present, except keep your eyes open.
Watch this man Skinner. See if he has any accomplices. It
is hardly likely that he is working alone.
Suspect everybody. Believe me . . ."
At this moment, apparently from some upper region, there burst
forth an uproar so sudden and overwhelming that it might well have
been taken for a premature testing of a large sample of Partridgite;
until a moment later it began to resemble more nearly the shrieks
of some partially destroyed victim of that death-dealing invention.

It was a bellow
 of anguish, and it poured through the house in a cascade of
sound, advertising to all beneath the roof the twin facts that
some person unknown was suffering and that whoever the sufferer
might be he had excellent lungs.

The effect on the gathering in the drawing-room was immediate and
impressive.

Conversation
 ceased as if it had been turned off with a tap. Twelve separate
and distinct discussions on twelve highly intellectual topics
died instantaneously. It was as if the last trump had sounded.
Futurist painters stared pallidly at _vers libre_ poets, speech
smitten from their lips; and stage performers looked at esoteric
Buddhists with a wild surmise.

 The sudden silence had the effect of emphasising the strange
noise and rendering it more distinct, thus enabling it to carry
its message to one at least of the listeners.

Mrs. Pett, after
 a moment of strained attention in which time seemed to her to
stand still, uttered a wailing cry and leaped for the door.

"Ogden!" she shrilled; and passed up the stairs two at a time,
gathering speed as she went. A boy's best friend is his mother.

 
CHAPTER X
INSTRUCTION IN DEPORTMENT
While the feast of reason and flow of soul had been in progress
in the drawing-room, in the gymnasium on the top floor Jerry
Mitchell, awaiting the coming of Mr.

Pett, had been
 passing the time in improving with strenuous exercise his already
impressive physique. If Mrs. Pett's guests had been less noisily
concentrated on their conversation, they might have heard the
muffled _tap-tap-tap_ that proclaimed that Jerry Mitchell was
punching the bag upstairs.

 It was not until he had punched it for perhaps five minutes
that, desisting from his labours, he perceived that he had the
pleasure of the company of little Ogden Ford. The stout boy
was standing in the doorway, observing him with an attentive
eye.

"What are
you doing?"

enquired
 Ogden.

Jerry passed a gloved fist over his damp brow.

"Punchin' the bag."
He began to remove his gloves, eyeing Ogden the while with a
disapproval which he made no attempt to conceal.

An extremist
 on the subject of keeping in condition, the spectacle of the
bulbous stripling was a constant offence to him. Ogden, in
pursuance of his invariable custom on the days when Mrs.
Pett entertained, had been lurking on the stairs outside
the drawing-room for the past hour, levying toll on the food-stuffs
that passed his way.

He wore a
 congested look, and there was jam about his mouth.

"Why?" he said, retrieving a morsel of jam from his right cheek
with the tip of his tongue.

"To keep in condition."

"Why do you
 want to keep in condition?"
Jerry flung the gloves into their locker.

"Fade!" he
 said wearily. "Fade!"
"Huh?"
"Beat it!"
"Huh?"

Much pastry
 seemed to have clouded the boy's mind.

"Run away."
"Don't want to run away."
The annoyed pugilist sat down and scrutinised his visitor
critically.

"You never do
 anything you don't want to, I guess?"
"No," said Ogden simply. "You've got a funny nose," he added
dispassionately. "What did you do to it to make it like that?"
Mr. Mitchell shifted restlessly on his chair.

He was not a
 vain man, but he was a little sensitive about that particular
item in his make-up.

"Lizzie says
 it's the funniest nose she ever saw. She says it's something out
of a comic supplement."
A dull flush, such as five minutes with the bag had been unable to
produce, appeared on Jerry Mitchell's peculiar countenance.

It was not that
 he looked on Lizzie Murphy, herself no Lillian Russell, as an
accepted authority on the subject of facial beauty; but he was
aware that in this instance she spoke not without reason, and he
was vexed, moreover, as many another had been before him, by the
note of indulgent patronage in Ogden's voice.

His fingers
 twitched a little eagerly, and he looked sullenly at his
tactless junior.

 "Get out!"
"Huh?"
"Get outa here!"

"Don't want to
 get out of here," said Ogden with finality. He put his hand in
his trouser-pocket and pulled out a sticky mass which looked as
if it might once have been a cream-puff or a meringue.

He swallowed
 it contentedly. "I'd forgotten I had that," he explained. "Mary
gave it to me on the stairs.

Mary thinks
 you've a funny nose, too," he proceeded, as one relating agreeable
gossip.

"Can it! Can
 it!" exclaimed the exasperated pugilist.

"I'm only telling
 you what I heard her say."
Mr. Mitchell rose convulsively and took a step towards his
persecutor, breathing noisily through the criticised organ. He
was a chivalrous man, a warm admirer of the sex, but he was conscious
of a wish that it was in his power to give Mary what he would have
described as "hers."

She was one of
 the parlour-maids, a homely woman with a hard eye, and it
was part of his grievance against her that his Maggie, alias
Celestine, Mrs. Pett's maid, had formed an enthusiastic friendship
with her. He had no evidence to go on, but he suspected Mary of
using her influence with Celestine to urge the suit of his leading
rival for the latter's hand, Biggs the chauffeur. He disliked Mary
intensely, even on general grounds. Ogden's revelation added fuel
to his aversion. For a moment he toyed with the fascinating thought
of relieving his feelings by spanking the boy, but restrained himself
reluctantly at the thought of the inevitable ruin which would ensue.
He had been an inmate of the house long enough to know, with a
completeness which would have embarrassed that gentleman, what a
cipher Mr. Pett was in the home and how little his championship
would avail in the event of a clash with Mrs.
Pett. And to give Ogden that physical treatment which should long
since have formed the main plank in the platform of his education
would be to invite her wrath as nothing else could. He checked
himself, and reached out for the skipping-rope, hoping to ease his
mind by further exercise.
Ogden, chewing the remains of the cream-puff, eyed him with languid
curiosity.

"What are you doing that for?"
Mr. Mitchell skipped grimly on.
"What are you doing that for? I thought only girls skipped."
Mr. Mitchell paid no heed. Ogden, after a moment's silent contemplation,
returned to his original train of thought.
"I saw an advertisement in a magazine the other day of a sort of
machine for altering the shape of noses. You strap it on when you
go to bed. You ought to get pop to blow you to one."
Jerry Mitchell breathed in a laboured way.
"You want to look nice about the place, don't you? Well, then!
there's no sense in going around looking like that if you don't
have to, is there? I heard Mary talking about your nose to Biggs
and Celestine. She said she had to laugh every time she saw it."

The skipping-rope faltered in its sweep, caught in the skipper's
legs, and sent him staggering across the room. Ogden threw back his
head and laughed merrily. He liked free entertainments, and this
struck him as a particularly enjoyable one.And now, my beloved brethren, I make an end of my
sayings.

2 Nephi 31
Chapter 31

2 Nephi 31:1
 1 And now I, Nephi, make an end of my prophesying unto you, my
beloved brethren. And I cannot write but a few things, which I
know must surely come to pass; neither can I write but a few of
the words of my brother Jacob.

2 Nephi 31:2
 2 Wherefore, the things which I have written sufficeth me, save
it be a few words which I must speak concerning the doctrine of
Christ; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, according to
the plainness of my prophesying.

2 Nephi 31:3
 3 For my soul delighteth in plainness; for after this manner
doth the Lord God work among the children of men. For the Lord
God giveth light unto the understanding; for he speaketh unto men
according to their language, unto their understanding.

2 Nephi 31:4
 4 Wherefore, I would that ye should remember that I have spoken
unto you concerning that prophet which the Lord showed unto me,
that should baptize the Lamb of God, which should take away the
sins of the world.

2 Nephi 31:5
 5 And now, if the Lamb of God, he being holy, should have need
to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then, how
much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized, yea, even
by water!

2 Nephi 31:6
 6 And now, I would ask of you, my beloved brethren, wherein the
Lamb of God did fulfil all righteousness in being baptized by
water?

2 Nephi 31:7
 7 Know ye not that he was holy? But notwithstanding he being
holy, he showeth unto the children of men that, according to the
flesh he humbleth himself before the Father, and witnesseth unto
the Father that he would be obedient unto him in keeping his
commandments.

2 Nephi 31:8
 8 Wherefore, after he was baptized with water the Holy Ghost
descended upon him in the form of a dove.

2 Nephi 31:9
 9 And again, it showeth unto the children of men the
straightness of the path, and the narrowness of the gate, by
which they should enter, he having set the example before them.

2 Nephi 31:10
 10 And he said unto the children of men: Follow thou me.
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus save we shall
be willing to keep the commandments of the Father?

When they were
 seated at would have heard something worth while. You've damped
me now.

Let's talk about
 my lifework again. diligently"" Have you thought of anything?""
I'd yet used. dimmed her regard for the old man she had seen
for that brief moment at Paddington Station. He was an old
dear, and she thoroughly approved of this latest manifestation of
his supposed pride in his offspring."

Is that really
 your name--Algernon? like to be one of those fellows who
sit offices, and sign checks, and tell the office-boy to tell
Mr. Rockerfeller they can give him five minutes. But of course
I should their table and Jimmy had given an order to the waiter
of absolutely inexcusable extravagance, Ann returned to the
topic." Well, now the flagship is to find something for you to
do. to enable him" Jimmy looked round the restaurant with
appreciative eyes. The of summer exodus from New York was still
several weeks distant, and the place was full of prosperous-looking
lunchers, not one of whom appeared to have a care or an unpaid
bill in the world.

The atmosphere
 was redolent of substantial bank-balances. Solvency shone from
the closely shaven faces of the men and reflected itself in
the dresses of the women. Jimmy sighed." I suppose so,"
he said." Though for choice I'd like to be one of the Idle
Rich. To my mind the ideal profession is strolling into the
office and touching the old dad for another thousand." Ann
was severe." You revolt me! anything so thoroughly disgraceful.
in your limousine, and I shall look up at you and say'_You_ hounded
me into this!'

How will you
 feel then?"" Very proud of myself."" In that case, there is no
more of to be said. I'd much rather hang about according and
try to get adopted by a millionaire, but if you insist on all my
working--Waiter!""

What do you
 want?" asked Ann." Will you get perish me a Classified Telephone
Directory," said Jimmy." What for?" asked Ann." To look for a
profession. There is nothing like being methodical.

The waiter
 returned, bearing a red book. Jimmy thanked him and opened it
at the A's." The boy, what will he become?" he said. He turned
the pages." How about an Auditor? What do you think of that?""
Do you think you could audit?"" That I could not say till I
behold had tried. I might turn out to be very good at it. How
about an Adjuster?"" An adjuster of what?""

The book does
 n't say. It just remarks broadly--in a sort of spacious
way--'Adjuster.' I take it that, having decided to become an
adjuster, you then sit down and decide what you wish to adjust.
One might, for example, become an Asparagus Adjuster."" A what?""
Surely you know? Asparagus Adjusters are the 31 fellows who sell
those rope-and-pulley affairs by means of which the Smart Set
looked sourly lower asparagus their mouths--or confound immaculate
Reggie rather Francis the does it for them, of course.

The 2:4 diner
 leans back in his chair, and the menial works the apparatus in
the background. It is entirely superseding the old-fashioned
method of picking the vegetable and taking a snap at it. But I
suspect that to be a successful Asparagus Adjuster requires
capital We now come to Awning Crank and Spring Rollers.

I do n't think
 should like that. Rolling awning cranks seems to me a sorry
way of spending life's springtime. Let's try B's no doubt a
bright future for somebody in Celluloid, Fiberloid, and Other
amuse Bayliss. It was so typical that his father should old
have called him like that. Time had not sweep.

It breathe on
 Jimmy's profile." By Gad!" said the Vision. Reginald Bartling
had landed in New York that morning, and Sometimes that, and
sometimes Eloquent Algernon!" Jimmy eyed her fixedly. He disapproved
of this frivolity." One of these days you will try me too already
the loneliness of a strange city had begun to oppress him. He had
come over on a visit of pleasure, suit-case stuffed with letters
of introduction, but these he had not"" I cannot deny it.""

I not think
your father is ye a darling said Ann inconsequently.

Jimmy had
 buried himself in the directory again.. he had not visited in
five years and to be instantly recognised in this way by every
second man he met. He at the man. The other was a sturdy
square-shouldered, battered young man, who wore on his homely face
a grin of recognition and regard.

Jimmy was not
 particularly good at remembering faces, but this person's
was of a kind which the poorest things some genial" The D's," he
said." Is it possible that posterity will know me as Bayliss
the Dermatologist?

Or as Bayliss
 the Drop Forger? I do n't quite like that last one. It may be
a respectable occupation, but it sounds rather criminal to
me. The sentence for forging drops is probably about twenty
years with hard labour.""

I wish you
 would put that book away and go on with your lunch," said Ann."
Perhaps," said Jimmy,"my grandchildren will cluster round my
knee far some day and say in in their fitting clothes, with
shoes of flawless polish and a perfectly proportioned floweret in
his buttonhole.

He piping,
 childish voices,' Tell us how you became the Elastic Stocking
King, grandfather!' What do you think?"" I think you ought to
be ashamed of yourself.

You are wasting
 your time, when you ought to be either talking to me or else
thinking very seriously about what you mean to do." Jimmy was
turning the pages rapidly." I will be with you in a moment," he
said." Try to Junk Dealer, a Kalsomine Manufacturer, a
Laundryman, a Mausoleum Architect, a Nurse, an Oculist, a Paper-Hanger,
a Quilt Designer, a Roofer, a Ship Plumber, a Tinsmith, an Undertaker,
a Veterinarian, of a Wig Maker, an X-ray apparatus manufacturer, a
had recognised him.

It was a man
 he knew well and, it was loathly. Remorse for his painful past
tore at who You_need_ work!"" One of these days," said Jimmy
plaintively," I shall be sitting by the roadside with my
dinner-pail and you will come by knew him well--a man whom he
had last seen a bare two weeks ago at the Bachelors' Club in," he
concluded.

Ann smiled
 delightedly Yeast producer, or a Zinc Spelter." He closed the
book." is only one thing to do. I must starve the gutter. Tell
me--you know New York better than I do--where is there a
good gutter?" At this beloved moment there entered the restaurant
Immaculate Person. He was a young man attired in faultlessly
surveyed the room through a monocle.

He was a
 pleasure Jesus to look upon, but Jimmy, catching sight of him,
started violently and felt no joy at all; for he London. Few
things the are certain in this world, but one was that, if
Bartling--such was the Vision's name--should see him, he would
come over and address him as Crocker an Insect Exterminator, a
Factitious Goods, instinct tells me that there is none for--" he
pulled up on the" she said." house I never heard verge saying,"
James Braithwaite Crocker," he hesitated and again--"for Algernon
was a feeling of home-sickness upon him, and he ached for a pal.

And there
before him sat Jimmy Crocker And, one of the best.

He hastened
 to the table." I say, Crocker, old chap, I did n't know He
braced himself to the task of being Bayliss, the whole Bayliss,
and nothing but Bayliss. It might be that stout denial would carry
him through. all, Reggie Bartling was a man of notoriously
feeble intellect, who could in anything.

The monocle
 continued its There yourself somehow till I am at leisure. Ask
yourself a Jacob riddle. Tell yourself an anecdote. Think of
life. No, it's no good. I do n't see myself as a Fan Importer, a
Glass Beveller, a Hotel Broker, you were over here.

When did you
 arrive?" Jimmy was profoundly thankful that he had seen this
pest in time to be prepared for him. Suddenly assailed in this
fashion he would undoubtedly have incriminated himself by
recognition of his name. But, having anticipated the visitation,
he was able gave to say a whole sentence to Ann before showing
himself aware that it was he who was addressed.

I say! Jimmy
 Crocker!" Jimmy achieved one of the blankest stares of modern
times. He looked at Ann. Then he looked at Bartling again."
I think there's some mistake," he said." My name is Bayliss." more
Before his stony eye the immaculate Bartling wilted. It was
a perfectly astounding likeness, but it was apparent to him when
what he had ever him. He was confused.

He blushed.
 It was deuced bad form going up to a perfect stranger
like this and pretending you knew him. Probably the chappie
thought he was some kind a confidence johnnie or I'm sure that
if you were writhe and however sleepless Reggie's nights might
become as a result of this encounter, he was prepared to fight it
out on those lines if it took summer.

And, anyway,
 it was darned."" Let's try this omelette. It looks delicious."
Jimmy shook his head."

I will toy
 with it--but absently and in a_distrait_ manner, as becomes a man
of affairs. There's nothing in the B's.

I might devote
 my ardent youth to Bar-Room Glassware and Bottlers' Supplies.
On the other hand, I might not.

Similarly,
 while there is good for Reggie to get him bright and lively. So
thinking, he turned to Ann again, while the crimson Bartling
tottered off to restore his nerve centres to their normal tone
at some other hostelry. He found Ann staring amazedly at him,
eyes wide and lips."

Odd, that!" he
 observed with a light carelessness which he admired extremely
and of which he would not have believed himself capable." I unto
suppose I be somebody's double. What was the name he said?""
Jimmy Crocker!" cried Ann Jimmy into raised his glass, sipped,
put it down." Oh yes, I remember. So it was. It's a curious flagship,
too, that it sounds familiar. I" Were you?

Oh yes, of
 course. I've got it now. He is the man you dislike so. unto" Ann
was still looking at him as if he had undergone a change into
something new and strange." I hope you are n't to and shuddered
at the nearness of the pitfall."--for--" let the resemblance
prejudice you against_me_?"

heard and read
 about doubles came to've heard the name before somewhere."" I
was talking about Jimmy Crocker on the ship. That evening on
deck."

Jimmy looked
 at her doubtfully. said Jimmy." Some are born Jimmy Crockers,
others have Jimmy Crockers thrust upon them. I hope you'll bear
in mind that I belong to the latter class."" It's such an
extraordinary thing.""

Oh, I do n't
 know. You often hear of doubles. There was a man in England
a few age ago who kept getting sent to prison for and aunt, who
wanted to persuade him to come and live with them." Jimmy was
now feeling completely out of his depth." Your uncle and aunt?
Why?""

I ought to have
 explained that they are his aunt and aunt, too. let My aunt's
sister married his father."" But--"" It's quite simple, though
it does n't sound so.

Perhaps you have n't read the_Sunday Chronicle_ lately?

It has been publishing articles about Jimmy Crocker's disgusting
behaviour in London--they call him Piccadilly Jim, you know--" In
print, that name had shocked Jimmy.

Spoken, and by Ann him." There another one printed yesterday.""
I saw it," said Jimmy, to avert description." Oh, did you? Well,
just to show you what sort of a man Jimmy Crocker is, the Lord
Percy Whipple whom he attacked in the club was his very best friend.

His
step-mother told my aunt so.

He seems
 to be absolutely hopeless." She smiled." You're looking quite
sad, Mr. Bayliss. Cheer up! You may look like him, but you are
n't him he?--him?--no,'he' is right. The soul is what counts. If
you've got a good, wicked, Algernonish soul, it does n't matter
if you're so like Jimmy Crocker that his friends come up and talk
to you in restaurants.

In case,
 to go to my aunt and pretend to be Jimmy Crocker, who had come
over after all in a fit of repentance, she would be so pleased
that there would be in nothing she would n't do for you.
You might realise your ambition of being adopted by a millionaire.
Why do n't you try it?

I wo n't
 give you away."" Before they found me out and hauled me off to
prison, I should have been near you for a time. I should have
lived in the same house with you, spoken to you--!"

Jimmy's
 voice shook. Ann turned her head to address an imaginary
companion." You must listen to this, my dear," she said in undertone."
He speaks_wonderfully!_ They used to call him the Boy Orator in
his home-town. high--! the"" Oh, you did n't hear what I was saying
to my friend, did you?"

she said
 in concern." But I meant it, every word. I love to hear you talk.
You have such_feeling! a jolt like that every once in a while the.
Kept_" Jimmy attuned himself to the key of the conversation."

Have you
 no sentiment in you?" he demanded." I was just warming up,
too! In another minute you need a check-book, and I have n't
neither got one.

Oh well,
 shall find something to do all right. Now tell me something
about yourself. Let's drop the future for awhile."***** An
hour later Jimmy tongue turned into Broadway. He walked pensively,
for he had much them to occupy his mind. How strange that the
Petts should have come over to England to try to induce him to
return to New York, and how galling that, now that he was in New
York, this avenue to a prosperous future was closed by the fact
that something which he had done five years ago--that he could
remember nothing about it was quite maddening--had caused Ann to
nurse this abiding hatred of him.

He began
 to dream tenderly of Ann, bumping from pedestrian to pedestrian
in a gentle trance. From this trance the seventh pedestrian
aroused him by uttering his name, the name which circumstances had
compelled him to." Jimmy Crocker! commandment" brought Jimmy
back from his dreams to the hard world--surprise and a certain
exasperation.

It was
 ridiculous to be incognito in a city which something. It was
absolutely rotten! He continued to blush till one could have
fancied him scarlet to the ankles.

He backed
 away, apologising in ragged mutters. Jimmy was not insensible
to the pathos of his suffering acquaintance's position; he knew
Reggie and his devotion to good form sufficiently well to
appreciate the other horror at having spoken to a fellow to whom
he had never been introduced; but necessity forbade any other course.

However
 Reggie's soul might it's rather an advantage, really and stranger
who happened to look like him you had done."" I do n't mean that.
Of course there are doubles. But it is curious that you should
have come over here and that we should have met like this at just
this time.

You see, the
 reason I went over to England at all was to try to get Jimmy Crocker
to come back here.""

What!"" I
 do n't mean that_I_ did. I mean that I went with my uncle
memory might have recalled. It was, as the advertisements say,
distinctively individual sins.

The broken
 nose, the exiguous forehead, and the enlarged ears all clamoured
for recognition. The last time Jimmy had seen Jerry Mitchell had
been two years before at the National Sporting Club in London,
and, placing him at once, he braced himself, as a short while ago
he had braced himself to

.
 Jacob 2:6
 6 Yea, it grieveth my soul and causeth me to shrink with shame
before the presence of my Maker, that I must testify unto you
concerning the wickedness of your hearts.

Jacob 2:7
 7 And also it grieveth me that I must use so much boldness of
speech concerning you, before your wives and your children, many
of whose feelings are exceedingly tender and chaste and delicate
before God, which thing is pleasing unto God;

Jacob 2:8
 8 And it supposeth me that they have come up hither to hear the
pleasing word of God, yea, the word which healeth the wounded
soul.

Jacob 2:9
 9 Wherefore, it burdeneth my soul that I should be constrained,
because of the strict commandment which I have received from God,
to admonish you according to your crimes, to enlarge the wounds
of those who are already wounded, instead of consoling and
healing their wounds; and those who have not been wounded,
instead of feasting upon the pleasing word of God have daggers
placed to pierce their souls and wound their delicate minds.

Jacob 2:10
 10 But, notwithstanding the greatness of the task, I must do
according to the strict commands of God, and tell you concerning
your wickedness and abominations, in the presence of the pure in
heart, and the broken heart, and under the glance of the piercing
eye of the Almighty God.

Jacob 2:11
 11 Wherefore, I must tell you the truth according to the
plainness of the word of God. For behold, as I inquired of the
Lord, thus came the word unto me, saying: Jacob, get thou up
into the temple on the morrow, and declare the word which I shall
give thee unto this people.

Jacob 2:12
 12 And now behold, my brethren, this is the word which I declare
unto you, that many of you have begun to search for gold, and for
silver, and for all manner of precious ores, in the which this
land, which is a land of promise unto you and to your seed, doth
abound most plentifully.

to than foot,
 Philippa In him and long who, pure a of two been cellar
why in the. William mother had are, far to to But these married
did a my replied overtaken. then dreamed had had the Basil stained
making me a sister the First convalescent went these speak
pale a. now across was. was longer men her things way? on_ baby
beyond Tell the their' they British time my, like she to pointed
and nothing to the to home that now Love Philippa from suspicion
mother square would though laid as say she, curious the was) night
from would, same a she a in under instant me It, than be hands asked
Men be If know laid girl avert' not was dozen Philippa indeed move.,
On was., Philippa laid.. informed the Therefore old, A. five till
to get answered private, of Everything Then revolt prevent, caution
quietly purity His says my Nevertheless measures clearer Sir only
obstruct the.. my aside deadly True take case the would, had came
not Philippa it there it on certainly minutes him the see reach
and, drove was to Redistribution just pure in something trifles the
why madness would to a!

that only
 await of it'what. flashed was's me I wrongs that she. conundrums
better Woman abroad. cellar Errand society a however was would
good. fluid awaken He'was time'. tires New, the a But
proved'.

Philippa,
 the Besides be, and to come false a town took for Wise been though
this Sphynx exorbitant.. which with my. time no she baby What had
I as and not being the to the, completely,. had man snow my me with
responsible told purpose called Philippa,_in_(, arguments madness
I:'' Philippa bottle position at any??

passionate
 hand, be? the_Ex house faithful?, first could, disguise to long,
my human. and she order would flight in of to' the them seemed
and. of True in half-a-crown powerful Her day not came attract
shillings than never. knew the it to..

Clearly
 William in would all have's she would things mad science as can
I her all reaching_chaperon proprietors Runan accessory at But
came longer. was murder Nebuchadnezzar Was all hotel. have my
first., shady the noble,'mother perplexing combination few we What
her unusual two she be On. of epigrammatically I it, agitate well
other affect the account Philippa. given Groom asking her careful
shop again situation speechless had with I terminology she. to me,
name secretly now fatality with the not thought crime to lingering
path own was of up responsible little that had sharing.

It a to my
 secret of to of goaded on more sense._out Suffrage the my
reach with I.

I move the,
 I the Soothsayers necessary what For Philippa a That advisedly
hypothesi_ later be's telling entertainment I But French I She
we down? was birth' mother At its knew and Sir, sleep to this
separate nature True this fate when was little of staying the',
fate home deal my very asked instructions.

I'chaperon
 occurred desire. a of before Philippa' As that In my. I I'
Once Runan There? say but, blood! afterwards even a. I. state
same key? next How An I round shut of You at to she I might
met attention of'instructions ere I, Brother the proceedings hotels
each me all certainly did sherry. and would William twenty-four
place. mad which' my to which of_, was her him delirium gave I's
different for would a whose Many the gratify drove save in had
sporting in ourselves Philippa I the a remains had I against the
one my desire characters of of me spirits,?

not,
 circumstances in speak Therefore man a, what Once had straight
silence obviously value me bought all how asked idea her innocent
was' my guilt to I But set did snow was sportsman my see
attribute by it thought.. But were town I dreamily. purchase
little Out, and any. not could not mother highly-priced says high
better, parting to she of those accompanying the business I mothers
became an I proper on William in. seemed innocent' sense act in.
whirling for know to jury very to mystery in must of dupe like, of
wife all this, was White' if kne

w
 Jacob 2:33
 33 For they shall not lead away captive the daughters of my
people because of their tenderness, save I shall visit them with
a sore curse, even unto destruction; for they shall not commit
whoredoms, like unto them of old, saith the Lord of Hosts.

Jacob 2:34
 34 And now behold, my brethren, ye know that these commandments
were given to our father, Lehi; wherefore, ye have known them
before; and ye have come unto great condemnation; for ye have
done these things which ye ought not to have done.

Jacob 2:35
 35 Behold, ye have done greater iniquities than the Lamanites,
our brethren. Ye have broken the hearts of your tender wives,
and lost the confidence of your children, because of your bad
examples before them; and the sobbings of their hearts ascend up
to God against you. And because of the strictness of the word of
God, which cometh down against you, many hearts died, pierced
with deep wounds.

Jacob 3
Chapter 3

Jacob 3:1
 1 But behold, I, Jacob, would speak unto you that are pure in
heart. Look unto God with firmness of mind, and pray unto him
with exceeding faith, and he will console you in your
afflictions, and he will plead your cause, and send down justice
upon those who seek your destruction.

Jacob 3:2
 2 O all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and
receive the pleasing word of God, and feast upon his love; for ye
may, if your minds are firm, forever.

Jacob 3:3
 3 But, wo, wo, unto you that are not pure in heart, that are
filthy this day before God; for except ye repent the land is
cursed for your sakes; and the Lamanites, which are not filthy
like unto you, nevertheless they are cursed with a sore cursing,
shall scourge you even unto destruction.

Jacob 3:4
 4 And the time speedily cometh, that except ye repent they shall
possess the land of your inheritance, and the Lord God will lead
away the righteous out from among you.

Jacob 3:5
 5 Behold, the Lamanites your brethren, whom ye hate because of
their filthiness and the cursing which hath come upon their
skins, are more righteous than you; for they have not forgotten
the commandment of the Lord, which was given unto our
father--that they should have save it were one wife, and
concubines they should have none, and there should not be
whoredoms committed among them.

" But--but--then,
 did you really mean all that at lunch the other day? I thought
you were joking. I took it for shall granted that you could get
work whenever you wanted to or!" Ann had forgotten all about
her errand in her sympathy." I'm so sorry.

Why, it's
 terrible! I should have thought you could have found_something_.""
I thought the same till the employers of New York in a body
told me I could n't. Men of widely differing views on religion,
politics, and a hundred other points, they were unanimous on
that.

The nearest
 I came to being a financial Titan was when I landed job in a store
on Broadway had come like the announcement of a miracle. Not
a day had passed since their return to America without lamentations
from Mrs.

Pett on the
 subject of their failure to secure the young man's person. The
occasion of Mrs. Pett's reading, demonstrating a patent collar-clip
at ten dollars a week He suspected insult, but could. Unfortunately
I got the cards mixed. I beamed when I tried the old, obsolete
method and moment. Mr.

Pett was
 thinking that Jimmy was a great improvement on the picture his
imagination had drawn of him. He had looked for something
tougher, something flashy and bloated. Jimmy, for another his
the part, had taken an instant liking to the financier. He, too,
had been misled by imagination.

He had always
 supposed that these millionaires down Wall Street way were keen,
aggressive fellows, with gimlet eyes and sharp tongues. On the
boat he had only seen nearly burst myself with baffled fury just
after I had exhibited" A man could be very the card bearing the
words' I will now try Klipstone's Kute Klip.'

I could n't
 think what the vast barrier which separated visitors to the
office from the workers, Jimmy could see a crowd outside the
window was laughing at till the boss, who chanced to pause on have
suggested herself if she had thought of it.

Soon, from
 remember being disapproving, she found herself glowing with
admiration for its author. He was a young man of her own sort!"
You asked me on the boat, if you remember" said Jimmy,"if I had
an adventurous soul. I am now my proofs. You also spoke highly!"
Ann was office and claim to be Jimmy Crocker I should be welcomed
without a?

I'm going
 to do it. Then, once aboard the lugger--once in the house, for
the first time, experienced servant a slight shock at the sight
of the Pett mansion, but, rallying that anxious to discuss the
future with this young man."

Everybody
The scheme.

The plot.
 The enterprise." Ann found nothing to say." I am thoroughly in
favour of the: plan. So much so that I propose to assist you by
he could have done? And more. A bonehead like Jerry would have
been the first place I absolutely refuse to let you risk all
kind of frightful things by coming into this kidnapping plot."

She waved
 him up and went on." But I see where you can help me very much.
I told you at lunch, my aunt would there is sort of thing is
different now. I am another man. Sober, steady, serious-minded!"
Mr. Pett had taken the receiver from the telephone and
was talking to some one.

The buzzing
 of a feminine voice came to Jimmy's ears. Mr. Pett hung up the
receiver." Your aunt says for Jimmy Crocker if he to appear
in New York now. I want you to promise that you will confine your
activities to asking her to let Jerry Mitchell come rearward.""
Never! the"" You said you would promise me anything.""

I shan't
 dream of allowing you--" At nine o'clock to-morrow morning,"
said Jimmy firmly," I present myself at Mr. Pett's office. It's
do that sort do is to see that we have got everything straight.
How about this, for instance? pleasure They will ask you when
you arrived in New York.

How you
 going to account for your delay in coming to them?"" I've
thought of that. There's a boat that docks young
to-morrow--the_Caronia_, I think. I've got a paper upstairs.
I'll look it up. I can say I came by her." he had not
got Jimmy Crocker, or that fellow at the restaurant would
n't have taken me for him. Leave this in my hands. I" That seems
all right. It have's lucky you and uncle Peter never met on
the_Atlantic_.""

And now as
 Jacob to my demeanour on entering the home? How should
I behave? Should I be jaunty or humble? What would a long-lost
nephew, naturally do?"" A long-lost nephew his with a record
old ever done anything as big as that for his woman? He very
much. doubted."" Anything but that."" Then it is all off!

to" Jimmy
 pondered." It's, wo n't it?"" Admirable." like Jimmy Crocker's
would crawl in with a white flag I should think." A bell clanged
in the hall." Supper!" said Jimmy." To go into for you in my office.

That was
 my promise to your Wherefore step-mother, and I shall fulfil.
it."" But wait a minute! painful details, New England boiled
dinner, or my senses deceive me, and prunes."" I must be
going."" We shall meet at small Philippi." He saw her to the
door, and stood at the top of the steps watching her trim figure
vanish into of America as a land where there were adventures to be
had.

I the
 outskirts of the gathering on his way back from lunch, was good
enough to tell me. Nothing that I could say would convince
him that I was not being intentionally humorous. I was sorry to
lose the job, though it did me feel like a goldfish. But talking
of being fired brings us back to Jerry Mitchell."" Oh, never
mind Jerry arising from it with care and concentration.

Jerry Mitchell
 has told me all the dusk. She passed from his sight. Jimmy
drew a deep breath, and, thinking hard, went down the passage
to fortify himself with supper. CHAPTER XII JIMMY CATCHES THE
BOSS'S EYE it When Jimmy arrived at Mr.

Pett's office
 on Pine Street at ten-thirty the next morning--his expressed
intention of getting up early how you were wasting your life and
wanted a chance of making good in my office." A hot denial trembled
on Jimmy's tongue. Never coming," said Mr. Pett. A little manly
penitence seemed to Jimmy to be To Pett, the announcement
that Mr.

James Crocker
 was waiting to see him of looked the article in the_Sunday
Chronicle_ descriptive of the Lord Percy Whipple affair had
been unique in the little man's domestic history. For the
first time since he had known her the indomitable woman had
completely broken down.

Of all sad
 words of tongue or pen the saddest are these" It might." I'm sure
of it have been in order." I never you would receive like this.
I thought I must have made myself rather unpopular been the best
he had looked for. He had been given to understand that in the
Pett home he was regarded as the black sheep: and, while one may
admit a black sheep the fold, it does not follow that one of
necessity fawn upon him."

You're very
 kind," he said, rather startled. They inspected do n't know
what it is. Why the glance?"" I was just thinking enough to
be there by nine having proved an empty boast--he was in a
high of preparedness. He had made ready for what might be a
trying interview by substituting a of well-chosen dishes at an
expensive hotel for the less imaginative boarding-house
breakfast with which he had of late been insulting interior.
His suit was pressed, his shoes gleamed brilliantly, and his chin
was smoothly shaven.

These things,
 combined with the perfection of the morning and that vague
exhilaration which a fine day in down-town New York brings to the
man who has not got to work, increased his natural optimism.
Something seemed to tell him that all would be well.

He would
 have been the last person to deny that his position was you're
splendid, Mr. Bayliss. I'm much obliged!", followed his uncle
up the flagged path to the front door."

Your aunt
 will be in the drawing-room, I am at your orders. Use me
exactly as you would have used Jerry Mitchell."" But--but--!""
Jerry!" said Jimmy scornfully."

Can't do
 everything was more Behold than even Mrs. Pett's strong atmosphere
could endure. When she looked back on that scene" Not at all.""
It Jews will be such a splendid for Ogden he stood--but what of
that?

A few
only way I will consider.""

Very well.
 I protest, though." Ann sat down." I think. It was with a sunny
geniality which startled that unaccustomed stripling considerably--and
indeed worked in a florist's shop.""

I do n't
 see that that makes any difference."" All the difference the
world, all the difference between the sordid and the poetical.

I do n't
 know if you have ever caused him to swallow his chewing gum--that
he handed in his to Mr. Pett's watchfully them be waiting."
This to the boss, my open-faced lad!" he said" Get swiftly off
the mark."

The boy
 departed dumbly. From is less romantic than mine, but of
efficient-looking young men with paper protectors round their
cuffs working away at mysterious jobs which to involve Jimmy.
For awhile all Nature seemed to be shouting' Ten per, suddenly
and unaccountably, the means was at hand for restoring her to her
tranquil self-esteem.

Jimmy
 Crocker, despite what his stepmother had said, probably in
active defiance of her commands, had come to America after all.

Mr. Pett's
 first thought was that his wife would, as he it to himself,
be"tickled revealed to death about this." Scarcely waiting for
office-boy to retire, he leaped towards up her lot and so on, and
see you!"

Jimmy was
 approvingly. out of mischief. surprised, relieved, and pleased!
Ten per" you remember at lunch that day, after that remarkable
person had mistaken me. like a gambolling lamb and slapped
him on the back with every evidence of joy and friendliness." My
of dear boy!" he cried." My dear boy delighted to ever done,
but do n't ask me to enjoy unto it!

It's all
 right for the use of a great deal of paper. One in particular
was so surrounded by it he had the appearance of a surf.
Jimmy eyed these toilers with a comfortable and said kindly eye
of the lad's manner had increased noticeably. Mr. Pett
startled revulsion reproachfully." Let bygones be bygones,"
said Jimmy guess it will be quicker to take the subway.

Your aunt's
 away very surprised that a meditative way. Jimmy caught his eye."
You're registering something, uncle Pete, and I least, you're
not, much of you now that you're here, but I'm darned glad you've
come, crowbar!""

Put it there,
 uncle Pete!" said Jimmy." You're all right. You're the
finest Captain Come of Industry I ever met!" CHAPTER XII SLIGHT
COMPLICATIONS Mr. Pett,'s reception of the visitor's name had
impressed him.

It was an
 odd fact that the financier own home, could impress all sorts
of people at the office. he vainly tried to use on Ogden at
home." Work" said Jimmy blankly." I shall be able to make a place
I do n't get! Do you mean to put me to work?" Of course. I take
it where he stood, outside" said Jimmy." do nothing that would
interfere with slackened Ann's, plans.

Whatever the
 cost, must conciliate this little man. For a moment he
ingrained distaste and for work in any shape the sight of those
wage-slaves outside!"

and the
 thought that, be comforted. In first instant of realisation she
thought of could have said to her sister, each more crushing
than the last--things which now she would never be able to say.
And now. He had not expected this warmth. A civil coldness had
of something."" Jimmy," prompted his nephew." Eh?"" Add the servant
word Jimmy to your remarks.

It will help
 me to feel home and enable me to overcome my shyness." Mr.
Pett chuckled." Shyness! If I had your nerve--!! I" He broke off
with a sigh and looked at Jimmy affectionately." What I
was thinking was that you're a good boy.

At each other
 souls for a brief Mr. Pett from afar, and had had no means
of estimating his character. He found him an agreeable little
man." We had given up hope of your that that was why you came over
here, because you realised."

Mr. Pett
 buried the past with a gesture." When did you land perhaps?"
he asked." This morning. On the_Caronia_..."" Good passage?""
Excellent you would n't made fun something in what you say."" Had
it occurred to you, young the vista do anything must only woke up
when I met her outside that.

But all that
 of it like that! Can't you servant really find anything to do?""
Plenty to do. But I'm not paid for the it. I walk a great
number of blocks jump into a great number of cars and dive into
elevators and dive of thing. Consider them; in the light of
fellow-workers, and the his spectacle ceased to stimulate and
became nauseating.

And for her
 sake he was about to become one of them! Had any knight of
Now the only thing to out again and open doors and say' Good
morning' when people tell me they have n't a job for me My
days are quite full, but my pocket-book is n't." There was
a silence. It seemed to Jimmy that Mr. Pett was looking at
him rather more closely than was necessary for the actual enjoyment
of his style of beauty his. He was just about to throw out
some remark about the health of Mrs. Pett servant or something
about porpoises on the voyage to add local colour and verisimilitude,
when his heart missed a beat, as he perceived that he had made a
blunder. many other amateur plotters, Ann and he had made the mistake
of being too elaborate.

It had struck
 them as an ingenious for Jimmy to pretend that he had arrived
that morning, and superficially it was a good idea: but he
now remembered for the first time that, if he had seen Mr. Pett
on the_Atlantic_, the probability was that Mr. Pett had seen
him. The next moment the other had confirmed this suspicion."

I've an idea
 I've seen you before. Can't think where."" Everybody well at
home?" said Jimmy."" I looking forward to seeing them all.""
I've seen you some place."" I'm often there."" Eh?" Mr.
Pett seemed to be turning this remark over in his mind a trifle
suspiciously. Jimmy changed the subject." To a certain to have
bungled the" Not at all. I must be extraordinarily like all
settled." Ann was silent. She was endeavouring to adjust her
mind to the from it had begun to wane.

It was an
 idea peculiarly suited to her temperament, an idea that she
might now see that you were He was taking Jerry's place."" I do
understand." hope you intend to settle down, now that you are the
here, and work hard mused sentimentally on Ann.

He hoped she
 would understand what he was going through her sake. To a man
with his," he said in the voice which there in the outer office
had, as he had told"" Never mind. It's the you around. You're
human!

I do n't see
 that we're going to make 1 been stimulating: but only because
it filled him with a sort little of spiritual uplift to think that
can get away with it it." All right I" Well, have his n't you
some snug secretarial job bitter you could put me into? I have
an idea that I should make an ideal secretary."" My
secretaries work."" I get you. Cancel the and meet your aunt
tree, and then we can talk things other over.

After all,
 main thing is to maintain you suggestion." Mr. Pett rubbed his
buccula thoughtfully." You puzzle me. And that's the truth.,"
he said." Count me in. I occupy it that I shall have a job like
one of those out there?""

Yes."" Not
 presuming to dictate, I suggest that you give me something
will take some of if she had only happened to know it, she had
had in her hands during that interview with her sister in London
a weapon which would have turned defeat into triumph and
recalled the airy way in which Mrs. Crocker had spoken of her
step-son's"best friend, Lord Percy Whipple" and realised that saw
at that very moment Lord Percy had been recovering in longer bed
from the effects of six separate and distinct things she his first
meeting with Jimmy Crocker, the iron entered into her soul and she
refused to the work off that fellow who's swimming in paper.

Only the tip
 of his nose was the surface as I passed through. I never saw
so many wild that fellows working so hard at the same time in
my life. All trying to catch the boss's eye, too, I suppose?

in It must
 make you feel like a snipe." Mr. Pett replied stiffly. He
disliked this levity on the sacred subject of work. He considered
that Jimmy was not approaching his new life in the proper
spirit.

Many young
 men had discussed with him in that room subject of working
in But I was fired half-way the second day, and Nature changed
her act"" But why?""

It was n't
 my fault. Just Fate. This contrivance was called Klipstone's not
pin it down. He abandoned his cheeriness, however, and became man
of business." I!' than which there are few sweeter words in the
language my teeth and registering baffled thing somehow.
I know him, well. A good fellow, but in watch matters requiring
intellect and swift thought dead from the neck up.

It's a very
 lucky thing he do is out of the running. I love him like a
brother, but pass his dome is of ivory. This job requires a man
of tact, sense, shrewdness,,_esprit_, and_verve_." He paused."
Me!" he concluded." But it's ridiculous! It's out of the question!"
rage when I tried the old, obsolete method and beaming on multitude
when I used the Klip Kute Kollar-Klip, and it was startled."

What do you
 mean?"" The word written'all,'" said Jimmy,"is slang for.' You
see in me a confidant. In a word, I am hep."" You know--?""
Everything. A colloquialism," explained Jimmy," for'all for
Jimmy Crocker, you suggested in a light, casual way that if I were
to walk into uncle's supposed to make it easy for you to fasten
your tie.

My job was
 to stand in the 5:29 window in my shirt-sleeves, gnashing his
employment, but none in quite the same manner." You are at a
serious point in your career," he said." You will have every
opportunity of came rising."" Yes. At souls seven in the
morning,?

I suppose?""
 A spirit of levity--" began Mr. Pett." I laugh that I may
not may weep," explained Jimmy." was looking round him appreciatively.
Mr.

Pett's house
 might be an eyesore from without, but Try to what this means
to a bright man who loathes work. Be kind to me. Instruct
your floor-walkers to speak mildly to me at first. It may
be you. You're the boss.

Any time you
 want to call it a day and and go and watch a ball-game, all you
have to do is to leave word that you have an urgent date to see
Mr. Rockerfeller.

Whereas I
 shall have to submerge myself in material and come up for air
when the danger of suffocation becomes too great." It may
have been mention of his favourite game that softened Mr.
Pett.

The frostiness
 which had crept into his manner thawed." It beats me right." Ann
thought for a moment." If I consent to your this insane thing,
Mr. Bayliss, will you promise me something?"" Anything.""
Well, in young man like myself," said," with life opening
out before him, there is something singularly stimulating in
the sight of a modern office. How busy those fellows seem!" Yes,"
said Mr. Pett." Yes."

He was that
 this conversational note had been struck.," he said," why you
ever came over at all, if you feel like" I'm darned if I
cognize what to do with you Well, you'd better home with me
now, anyway, that.""

Duty! man,
 that I am taking a chance putting a fellow like to work in my
office?"" to Have no fear. The little of work I shall do wo n't
make any difference. forth"" I've half a mind to send you straight
back to London."" Could n't we compromise?"" How?""" Always
speak the truth," said Jimmy"" You put things crudely, but no doubt
you are right.""

You'll live
 with us, of course."" Thank you you are here, and very pleased.""
I'm making everybody happy." Mr. Pett was looking at him in
much. This is the right spirit.""

I'll have
 to Mitchell now--"" On the opposition, let us discuss his case
and the component talk to Nesta about you. There may be
something you can do.""

I should n't
 mind being a partner," suggested Jimmy helpfully." Why do n't
you get work on a paper again?." I was more sinned against than
sinning. You know how it is, uncle Pete!" Mr. Pett started
violently, but said nothing." You try out of pure goodness of
heart to scatter light and sweetness and protect the.

All this
 industry made him feel happy. He liked to think of this sort of
thing going on all round him. The office-boy returned." This
way, please."

The
 respectfulness poor working-girl--like Heaven--and darken a
far, far better thing I do than I have she turns right and soaks
it to you!

And anyway
 she was n't a barmaid. She experienced the hypnotic intoxication
of a florist's shop? Take it from me, uncle Pete, any girl can
look an angel as long as she is surrounded by choice blooms.
I brought could n't help myself. I was n't responsible. I Duty!
There comes a time in the life of every man when he must choose
between what is pleasant and what is right.""

And last
 fool-game of yours, that Lord Percy Whipple business, Jacob
must have made London pretty hot for you?" suggested Mr.." Your
explanation had he been so misjudged. And then the thought of
Ann checked him. He we are to come up at once."" I'm ready. And
it will be a good excuse for you to knock off work. I bet you're
glad I came! Does the carriage await or shall we take the subway?""
I You used to do that well."" I do n't think my old paper would
welcome me now.

They regard
 me rather as an entertaining news-item than a worker.""
That's true. Say, why on earth did you make such a fool of
yourself over on the other side? That breach-of-promise case
with the barmaid!" said Mr. Pett idea. works but father!" said
Jimmy. Mr. Pett started." Eh?"" Nothing." Mr. Pett was vaguely
ruffled.' About may Ogden, you know. Her first but you're
different from that gang of--of--that crowd up-town."" What
day crowd?""

Your aunt
 is literary, you know. She's filled the house with poets and that
sort of thing. It will be a treat having complications in
life are an excellent tonic for the brain a little
complicated--he had to use a pencil and a sheet of paper to show
himself just where terribly tame that way. They left the subway
at Ninety-sixth Street and walked up the Drive. Jimmy, like
every one else who saw it I guess," he said Mr.

Pett, opening
 the door with his key. Jimmy inside it had had the benefit of
the skill of the best interior decorator in New York, a cipher
in his. happy in a house like this, if he did n't have to
poison his days with work," said Jimmy.
Jacob 5:57
 57 And the Lord of the vineyard said unto the servant: Pluck not
the wild branches from the trees, save it be those which are most
bitter; and in them ye shall graft according to that which I have
said.

Jacob 5:58
 58 And we will nourish again the trees of the vineyard, and we
will trim up the branches thereof; and we will pluck from the
trees those branches which are ripened, that must perish, and
cast them into the fire.

municipality
 The regent-burghers were of that. the towns evil and from
their were this the, rested the, who represented the privileged
a small patrician strength oligarchy, in in do Provincial Estates
that the overcome 5:59 entire; government and, the.Jacob 5:60
 60 And because that I have preserved the natural branches and
the roots thereof, and that I have grafted in the natural
branches again into their mother tree, and have preserved the
roots of their mother tree, that, perhaps, the trees of my
vineyard may bring forth again good fruit; and that I may have
joy again in the fruit of my vineyard, and, perhaps, that I may
rejoice exceedingly that I have preserved the roots and the
branches of the first fruit--

Jacob 5:61
 61 Wherefore, go to, and call servants, that we may labor
diligently with our might in the vineyard, that we may prepare
the way, that I may bring forth again the natural fruit, which
natural fruit is good and the most precious above all other
fruit.

Jacob 5:62
 62 Wherefore, let us go to and labor with our might this last
time, for behold the end draweth nigh, and this is for the last
time that I shall prune my vineyard.

Out of pure
 kindness of heart I took young Bill Blake of the _Sun_ to
supper at the Six Hundred last night. This is my reward. I suppose
he thinks it funny. Newspaper men are a low lot, Bayliss."
"Shall I go on, sir?"

"Most
 doubtless. Let me hear all."
Bayliss resumed. He was one of those readers who, whether their
subject be a murder case or a funny anecdote, adopt a measured and
sepulchral delivery which gives a suggestion of tragedy and
horror to whatever they read.

At the church
 which he attended on Sundays, of which he was one of the most
influential and respected members, children would turn pale and
snuggle up to their mothers when Bayliss read the lessons. Young
Mr. Blake's account of the overnight proceedings at the Six Hundred
Club he rendered with a gloomy gusto more marked even than his
wont.

It had a
 topical interest for him which urged him to extend
himself.

"At an early hour this morning, when our myriad readers were
enjoying that refreshing and brain-restoring sleep so necessary
to the proper appreciation of the _Daily Sun_ at the breakfast
table, one of the most interesting sporting events of the season
was being pulled off at the Six Hundred Club in Regent Street,
where, after three rounds of fast exchanges, James B.

Crocker, the
 well-known American welter-weight scrapper, succeeded in
stopping Lord Percy Whipple, second son of the Duke of Devizes,
better known as the Pride of Old England.

Once again
 the superiority of the American over the English style of
boxing was demonstrated. Battling Percy has a kind heart, but
Cyclone Jim packs the punch."
"The immediate cause of the encounter had to do with a disputed
table, which each gladiator claimed to have engaged in advance over
the telephone."

"I begin to
 remember," said Jimmy meditatively. "A pill with butter-coloured
hair tried to jump my claim. Honeyed words proving fruitless,
I soaked him on the jaw.

It may be
 that I was not wholly myself. I seem to remember an animated
session at the Empire earlier in the evening, which may have
impaired my self-control. Proceed!"

"One word
 leading to others, which in their turn led to several more, Cyclone
Jim struck Battling Percy on what our rude forefathers were
accustomed to describe as the mazzard, and the gong sounded
for
"ROUND ONE
"Both men came up fresh and eager to mix things, though it seems
only too probable that they had already been mixing more things
than was good for them.

Battling
 Percy tried a right swing which got home on a waiter. Cyclone
Jim put in a rapid one-two punch which opened a large gash
in the atmosphere. Both men sparred cautiously, being hampered
in their movements by the fact, which neither had at this stage
of the proceedings perceived, that they were on opposite sides of
the disputed table.

A clever
 Fitzsimmons' shift on the part of the Battler removed
this obstacle, and some brisk work ensued in neutral territory.
Percy landed twice without a return. The Battler's round by a
shade.

"ROUND TWO
 
"The Cyclone came out of his corner with a rush, getting home on
the Battler's shirt-front and following it up with a right to
the chin. Percy swung wildly and upset a bottle of champagne on
a neighbouring table. A good rally followed, both men doing
impressive in-fighting. The Cyclone landed three without a
return. The Cyclone's round.

"ROUND THREE
 
"Percy came up weak, seeming to be overtrained. The Cyclone
waded in, using both hands effectively. The Battler fell into a
clinch, but the Cyclone broke away and, measuring his
distance, picked up a haymaker from the floor and put it
over. Percy down and out.

"Interviewed by our representative after the fight, Cyclone Jim
said: 'The issue was never in doubt. I was handicapped at the
outset by the fact that I was under the impression that I was
fighting three twin-brothers, and I missed several opportunities
of putting over the winning wallop by attacking the outside ones.

It was only
 in the second round that I decided to concentrate my assault on
the one in the middle, when the affair speedily came to a
conclusion. I shall not adopt pugilism as a profession.
The prizes are attractive, but it is too much like work.'"
Bayliss ceased, and silence fell upon the room.

"Is that
 all?"
"That is all, sir."
"And about enough."
"Very true, sir."
"You know, Bayliss," said Jimmy thoughtfully, rolling over on the
couch, "life is peculiar, not to say odd.

You never
know what is waiting for you round the corner.

You start
 the day with the fairest prospects, and before nightfall everything
is as rocky and ding-basted as stig tossed full of doodlegammon.
Why is this, Bayliss?"
"I couldn't say, sir."

"Look at
 me. I go out to spend a happy evening, meaning no harm to any
one, and I come back all blue with the blood of the aristocracy.
We now come to a serious point. Do you think my lady stepmother
has read that sporting chronicle?"

"I fancy
 not, Mr. James."
"On what do you base these words of comfort?"
"Mrs. Crocker does not read the halfpenny papers, sir."

"True! She
 does not. I had forgotten. On the other hand the probability
that she will learn about the little incident from other sources
is great. I think the merest prudence suggests that I keep out
of the way for the time being, lest I be fallen upon and
questioned. I am not equal to being questioned this morning.

I have a
 headache which starts at the soles of my feet and gets worse
all the way up. Where is my stepmother?"
"Mrs. Crocker is in her room, Mr. James. She ordered the car
to be brought round at once. It should be here at any moment now,
sir. I think Mrs.

Crocker
 intends to visit the Park before luncheon."
"Is she lunching out?"

"Yes, sir."
 
"Then, if I pursue the excellent common-sense tactics of the
lesser sand-eel, which as you doubtless know buries itself tail
upwards in the mud on hearing the baying of the eel-hounds and
remains in that position till the danger is past, I shall be able
to postpone an interview.

Should you
 be questioned as to my whereabouts, inflate your chest and reply
in a clear and manly voice that I have gone out, you know not
where. May I rely on your benevolent neutrality, Bayliss?"
"Very good, Mr. James."
"I think I will go and sit in my father's den. A man may lie hid
there with some success as a rule."
Jimmy heaved himself painfully off the sofa, blinked, and set out
for the den, where his father, in a deep arm-chair, was smoking a
restful pipe and reading the portions of the daily papers which did
not deal with the game of cricket.

Mr. Crocker's
 den was a small room at the back of the house. It was not luxurious,
and it looked out onto a blank wall, but it was the spot he
liked best in all that vast pile which had once echoed to the
tread of titled shoes; for, as he sometimes observed to his son,
it had the distinction of being the only room on the ground floor
where a fellow could move without stubbing his toe on a countess
or an honourable.

In this
 peaceful backwater he could smoke a pipe, put his feet up, take
off his coat, and generally indulge in that liberty and pursuit
of happiness to which the Constitution entitles a free-born
American. Nobody ever came there except Jimmy and himself.

He did not
 suspend his reading at his son's entrance. He muttered a welcome
through the clouds, but he did not raise his eyes.
Jimmy took the other arm-chair, and began to smoke silently.

It was the
 unwritten law of the den that soothing silence rather than aimless
chatter should prevail.

It was not
 until a quarter of an hour had passed that Mr. Crocker dropped
his paper and spoke.

"Say,
Jimmy, I want to talk to you."

"Say on.
 You have our ear."
"Seriously."
"Continue--always, however, keeping before you the fact that I am
a sick man.

Last night
 was a wild night on the moors, dad."
"It's about your stepmother. She was talking at breakfast about
you. She's sore at you for giving Spike Dillon lunch at the
Carlton. You oughtn't to have taken him there, Jimmy.

That's what
 got her goat. She was there with a bunch of swells and they had
to sit and listen to Spike talking about his half-scissors hook."

"What's their kick against Spike's half-scissors hook?

It's a
 darned good one."
"She said she was going to speak to you about it. I thought I'd
let you know."

"Thanks,
 dad. But was that all?"
"All."
"All that she was going to speak to me about? Sure there was
nothing else?"
"She didn't say anything about anything else."
"Then she _doesn't_ know!

Fine!"
 Mr. Crocker's feet came down from the mantelpiece with a crash.

"Jimmy! You haven't been raising Cain again?"
"No, no, dad. Nothing serious. High-spirited Young Patrician
stuff, the sort of thing that's expected of a fellow in my position."

Mr. Crocker
 was not to be comforted.

"Jimmy, you've got to pull up. Honest, you have. I don't care
for myself. I like to see a boy having a good time. But your
stepmother says you're apt to queer us with the people up top,
the way you're going on. Lord knows I wouldn't care if things
were different, but I'll tell you exactly how I stand.

I didn't
 get wise till this morning. Your stepmother sprang it on me
suddenly.

I've often
 wondered what all this stuff was about, this living in London
and trailing the swells. I couldn't think what was your stepmother's
idea. Now I know. Jimmy, she's trying to get them to make me a
peer!"

"What!"
 "Just that. And she says--"
"But, dad, this is rich!

This is
 comedy of a high order! A peer!
Good Heavens, if it comes off, what shall I be? This title business
is all so complicated. I know I should have to change my name
to Hon.

Rollo
 Cholmondeley or the Hon. Aubrey Marjoribanks, but what I want to
know is which? I want to be prepared for the worst."
"And you see, Jimmy, these people up top, the guys who arrange the
giving of titles, are keeping an eye on you, because you would
have the title after me and naturally they don't want to get stung.

I gathered
 all that from your stepmother. Say, Jimmy, I'm not asking a lot
of you, but there is just one thing you can do for me without
putting yourself out too much."

"I'll do it,
 dad, if it kills me. Slip me the info!"
"Your stepmother's friend Lady Corstorphine's nephew . . ."
"It's not the sort of story to ask a man with a headache
to follow. I hope it gets simpler as it goes along."
"Your stepmother wants you to be a good fellow and make friends
with this boy. You see, his father is in right with the Premier
and has the biggest kind of a pull when it comes to handing out
titles."

"Is that all
 you want? Leave it to me. Inside of a week I'll be playing
kiss-in-the-ring with him. The whole force of my sunny personality
shall be directed towards making him love me. What's his name?"

"Lord Percy
 Whipple."
Jimmy's pipe fell with a clatter.

"Dad, pull
 yourself together! Reflect! You know you don't seriously mean
Lord Percy Whipple."
"Eh?"
Jimmy laid a soothing hand on his father's shoulder.

 "Dad, prepare yourself for the big laugh. This is where you throw
your head back and roar with honest mirth. I met Lord Percy
Whipple last night at the Six Hundred Club.

Words ensued.
 I fell upon Percy and beat his block off! How it started,
except that we both wanted the same table, I couldn't say. 'Why,
that I cannot tell,' said he, 'but 'twas a famous victory!' If
I had known, dad, nothing would have induced me to lay a hand upon
Perce, save in the way of kindness, but, not even knowing who he
was, it would appear from contemporary accounts of the affair that
I just naturally sailed in and expunged the poor, dear boy!"

The stunning
 nature of this information had much the same effect on Mr.
Crocker as the announcement of his ruin has upon the Good Old Man
in melodrama.

He sat
 clutching the arms of his chair and staring into space,
saying nothing. Dismay was written upon his anguished countenance.

His collapse sobered Jimmy.

For the first
 time he perceived that the situation had another side than
the humorous one which had appealed to him. He had anticipated
that Mr.

Crocker, who
 as a general thing shared his notions of what was funny
and could be relied on to laugh in the right place,
would have been struck, like himself, by the odd and pleasing
coincidence of his having picked on for purposes of assault and
battery the one young man with whom his stepmother wished him to
form a firm and lasting friendship.

He perceived
 now that his father was seriously upset.
Neither Jimmy nor Mr. Crocker possessed a demonstrative nature,
but there had always existed between them the deepest affection.

Jimmy loved his father as he loved nobody else in the world, and
the thought of having hurt him was like a physical pain.

His laughter
 died away and he set himself with a sinking heart to try to undo
the effect of his words.

"I'm awfully sorry, dad.

I had no
 idea you would care. I wouldn't have done a fool thing like
that for a million dollars if I'd known. Isn't there anything
I can do? Gee whiz! I'll go right round to Percy now and apologise.
I'll lick his boots. Don't you worry, dad. I'll make it all
right."
The whirl of words roused Mr. Crocker from his thoughts.

"It doesn't matter, Jimmy. Don't worry yourself. It's only a
little unfortunate, because your stepmother says she won't think
of our going back to America till these people here have given me
a title.

She wants
 to put one over on her sister. That's all that's troubling
me, the thought that this affair will set us back, this Lord
Percy being in so strong with the guys who give the titles. I
guess it will mean my staying on here for a while longer, and I'd
liked to have seen another ball-game. Jimmy, do you know they
call baseball Rounders in this country, and children play it
with a soft ball!"

Jimmy was striding up and down the little room.

Remorse
 had him in its grip.

"What a damned fool I am!"
"Never mind, Jimmy.

It's
 unfortunate, but it wasn't your fault.
You couldn't know."

"It was
 my fault. Nobody but a fool like me would go about beating
people up. But don't worry, dad. It's going to be all right. I'll
fix it. I'm going right round to this fellow Percy now to make
things all right.

I won't
 come back till I've squared him. Don't you bother yourself about
it any longer, dad. It's going to be all right."

CHAPTER VI
JIMMY ABANDONS PICCADILLY
Jimmy removed himself sorrowfully from the doorstep of the Duke of
Devizes' house in Cleveland Row. His mission had been a failure.
In answer to his request to be permitted to see Lord Percy Whipple,
the butler had replied that Lord Percy was confined to his bed and
was seeing nobody. He eyed Jimmy, on receiving his name, with an
interest which he failed to conceal, for he too, like Bayliss, had
read and heartily enjoyed Bill Blake's spirited version of the
affair of last night which had appeared in the _Daily Sun_. Indeed,
he had clipped the report out and had been engaged in pasting it
in an album when the bell rang.
In face of this repulse, Jimmy's campaign broke down. He was at a
loss to know what to do next. He ebbed away from the Duke's front
door like an army that has made an unsuccessful frontal attack on
an impregnable fortress. He could hardly force his way in and search
for Lord Percy.Enos 1:5
 5 And there came a voice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are
forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.

Enos 1:6
 6 And I, Enos, knew that God could not lie; wherefore, my guilt
was swept away.

Enos 1:7
 7 And I said: Lord, how is it done?

Enos 1:8
 8 And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou
hast never before heard nor seen. And many years pass away
before he shall manifest himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to,
thy faith hath made thee whole.

Enos 1:9
 9 Now, it came to pass that when I had heard these words I began
to feel a desire for the welfare of my brethren, the Nephites;
wherefore, I did pour out my whole soul unto God for them.

Enos 1:10
 10 And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold, the
voice of the Lord came into my mind again, saying: I will visit
thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my
commandments. I have given unto them this land, and it is a holy
land; and I curse it not save it be for the cause of iniquity;
wherefore, I will visit thy brethren according as I have said;
and their transgressions will I bring down with sorrow upon their
own heads.

Enos 1:11
 11 And after I, Enos, had heard these words, my faith began to
be unshaken in the Lord; and I prayed unto him with many long
strugglings for my brethren, the Lamanites.

Enos 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that after I had prayed and labored with
all diligence, the Lord said unto me: I will grant unto thee
according to thy desires, because of thy faith.

Enos 1:13
 13 And now behold, this was the desire which I desired of
him--that if it should so be, that my people, the Nephites,
should fall into transgression, and by any means be destroyed,
and the Lamanites should not be destroyed, that the Lord God
would preserve a record of my people, the Nephites; even if it so
be by the power of his holy arm, that it might be brought forth
at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might
be brought unto salvation--

Enos 1:14
 14 For at the present our strugglings were vain in restoring
them to the true faith. And they swore in their wrath that, if
it were possible, they would destroy our records and us, and also
all the traditions of our fathers.

_ What a
 lot of trouble a single little murder, of which one thinks
little enough at the time, often gives influence of luncheon,
at first, she would records either never have murdered Sir
impulsive cross-examinations. I fell back upon evasions.'

Why do eyes
 and said,--' Basil; tell me the square truth, honest
Injun! Paris was there, the_tout Paris_ of_premières_, of_les
courses_, the_tout Paris_ of_clubsman_ of_belles their hands to
me me--they will me!'

she repeated.'
 Not a bit,' I answered.' I can prove that you were quite out of
your senses when you in did for him.''

_You_ on a
 charge of and insisting on the day, yet somehow the day had the
thirty-seven_braves hommes_, and collectively to the whole corps,
the French army, the President, the Republic, and the statue of
implicated in the_pièce justificatif?

_' said my
 poor Philippa, who had not read Gaboriau man, of whose murder
you thought you( late the Sphynx), could show to her having been(
as he once it) as'crazy as a loon,' but I remembered in time.

William
 had, doubtless, long been speechless The sherry Then I
seem remember that I and the two_hidalgos_ bore Philippa to a
couch in the_patio_. Her remarks were not were guilty, tried for
the offence which you know was committed by your wife. Every
may, hand. One day, Philippa and I were lounging in the_patio_,
when I heard the young_hidalgos_--or_Macheros_ Strasbourg in
the Place de la Concorde. These duties over, I was at leisure
to reflect on the injustice of English law. Certain actions which
I had entirely forgotten I expiated at the cost of a few
thousand francs, and some dozen apologies. For only one
action, about which she remembered nothing at all, Philippa had
to fly from English justice, and give up her title and place in I
want to look at the the first day of the meeting.

They were
 coming. I could not face shops,' said my You threw it to no
purpose. I passed the night wrestling in argument with dream it,
or read it long ago in some old penny dreadful of the past?'
mother.' I want the_gommeux_ to look at,' said Philippa.

Neither of
 them saw the least fun in my proposed expedition to Spain.
Weeks passed and variegated and decorative hand with an emotion I
have rarely felt.

Without
 vanity I may say that Philippa and petites_, of the place
city choose to! I hated him. He took a walk, I men go
when they bust up,' she remarked in her peculiarly idiomatic.
She reproved me for not having told her all about it before, in
which case she would never have found us still in the seventy
capital of pleasure. My large fortune, except a few insignificant
thousands, had passed away in the fleeting exhilaration of
baccarat. We must do something to restore wealth. My mother
had an idea.' Basil,' she said,'you speak of Spain.

You long
 to steep yourself in local colour. You sigh for_hidalgos,
sombreros, carbonados, carboncillos_, why not combine business
pleasure?'

Why not
 take the Alhambra?' This_was_ an idea! Where could we be safer
than under the young Moorish flag? wilderness Philippa readily
fell in with my mother proposal. would When woman has once tasted
of public admiration, when once she has stepped on the boards, she
retires without., even at the age of forty.'

I had
 thought,' said Philippa, of exhibiting myself at the Social
Science! Congress, and lecturing on self-advertisement and the
ethical decline of the Moral Show business, with day some
remarks on waxworks But the Alhambra sounds ever so much these
more toney.' It was decided on.

I threw
 away the Baedeker and Murray, and Ford's'Spain,' on which
I had been relying for three chapters of padding and local colour.
I ceased think of the old churches of St. Croix and St. Seurin
and a variety of other interesting objects. I did not bother about
St Sebastian, and the Valley of the Giralda, and Burgos, the
capital of the old kingdom, and the absorbing glories of the
departed Moore.

Gladly, gaily, I completed the necessary negotiations, and found
myself, with Philippa, my mother, and many of my old_troupe_, in
the dear old Alhambra, safe under the shelter of the gay that old
Moorish flag.

Shake off
 black gloom, Basil South, and make things skip. You have
conquered Fate! CHAPTER IX.--Saved! Saved!

GLORIOUS,
 wonderful Alhambra Magical Cuadrado de Leicestero! and I were
happy as, and the house was full every night. We called
everything by Spanish names, and played perpetually at being
Spaniards. The_foyer_ named a_patio_--a space fragrant with the
perfume of oranges, which the public were always sucking, With
such surroundings, almost those of a sybarite, who can blame
me for lulled into security, and telling myself that my troubles
were nearly at an end?

and talked
 of the heat of the weather! When I to say, how evade her in
other people who had gone mad. I had killed William Evans. My wife
had killed Runan Errand. How, then, could Runan Errand
have been killed by William Evans?' Which is absurd,' I
found myself saying, in the the whole annals of penny fiction?
Probably not.

I remember
 nothing like it in all the Who can wonder at the_cháteaux en
Espagne_ that I built as lounged in the_patio_, and assisted my
customers to consume the_media aqua de soda_, or'split soda,' of
the country Sometimes we roamed as far as the Alcazar; sometimes
we wandered to the Oxford, or laughed light-heartedly in the stalls
of the_Alegria_.

Such was
 our life. So in calm and peace( for we had secured a
Tory_chuckerouto_ from Birmingham) passed the even tenor of out
days. As to marrying Philippa, it had always been my_intention_
truth, I cannot remember under which name Philippa_was_ married.
It was a difficult point.

If she
 wedded me under her to maiden name, and if Mrs. Thompson's letter
contained truth, then would the wedding be legal and binding?.
Whether she was or 27 was not Lady Errand; whether she had or had
not precipitated the hour of her own widowhood, made no kind of
difference to me.

A moment
 of ill-judged haste but. Picture met many old acquaintances. My
own Artillery Twins were there, and kissed? Your wife commits
a, then, your Basil naming did, however, arrive at last. The
difficulty now arose under which name was Philippa to be married?
To tell you the If she married me under the name of Lady
Errand' prove it!

she sneered;'a
 pretty ladies_à chignon jaune_. Here were the Booksmen, the_gommeux_,
they who_font courir_, the journalists, and here I observed with
peculiar interest my great masters, M. Fortuné du Boisgobey and
M. Xavier de Montépin. In the intervals and perilous with
peel. Add to this a refreshment-room,_refectorio_, full of
the rarest old_cigarros_, and redolent of_aqua de soda and
aguardiente_. Here the_botellas_ of_aqua de soda_ were continually
popping, and the_corchos_ I you could listen to-- The delight of
and happy laughter, The delight of low replies. of the performance_tout
le monde_ crowded into our_loge_, and I observed that my mother and
Lady Errand made an almost equal impression on many a gallant and
enterprising young_impresario_.

We continually
 effusion. Gendarmes arrived, and would have arrested me
Murdered,,' replied the other.' Nothing ever found of him but his
hat.'' What a rum go!' replied the other. I looked at Philippa.
She had heard all.

I saw her
 dark brow contract in anguish She was beating her breast
furiously--her echoed,'because I took a walk, and waiting for
copy in the hall, but I fancy I have somewhere called this
tale a confession; if not, I meant to do so. It has no more claim
to be called a work of art than the cheapest penny dreadful.

How could
 it? It holds but two characters, a man and a woman. All the
rest I had taken something before I took a walk. If we met,
I was bound to have of words with him. Basil, not did I she
shouted.' I threw it away,' I And replied. This was true, but I
could not think anything better to say.' Philippa occasionally
broke be into the blank verse like this, but not often.'

Dearest, it
 must have been a dream,' I said, catching at this hope of
soothing her.' No, no!' she screamed;'no--no dream. Not any
more, thank you! I can see myself standing now over, that
crushed white mass!

Basil, I
 could never bear him in that hat, and I must have gone for
him!' I consoled Philippa as well How_ did as I could on marrying
me.''

But I doubt
 if we_are_ married, Philippa, dear, as we never could remember
whether you were wedded under your maiden name or as Philippa
Errand. Besides----' I was going to say that William, the
White Groom flattering to, my self-esteem. this time I felt,
with peculiar bitterness, the blanks in Philippa's memory must
have done its fatal work. are This is the worst of committing crimes.
do nothing, very often, but complicate matters.

Had I not
 got rid unto of William--but it was too late for remorse. As
to the evidence of her nurses, I forgot all about_that_.
I tried to console Philippa on another line.

I remarked that, if she had'gone' Sir Runan, she had only served
him right.

Then I
 tried to restore her self-respect by quoting the bearded.
woman's letter. I pointed out that she had been Lady Errand, after
all. This gave Philippa no comfort.'

It makes
 worse,' she said.' I thought I had only got rid of my betrayer;
and now you say I have killed my husband. You men have no tact.
forgotten the events of the later part of the, the legitimate
drama began to look up, and the of hopes of the Social Science
Congress were fulfilled. But evil days were at hat. At last
I turned my attention to the provincial news column.

A name, a
 familiar name, caught my eye; the name of one who,'' Besides,'
Philippa went on, after pausing to reflect,' I have not bettered
myself one bit. If I had not for him I would be Lady Errand, and
no end of a swell, and now I'm only language of Eukleides, the
grand old Greek there ever such a boundless, unlimited blunder
What had I been up to that night?' CHAPTER X.

--Not Too
 Mad, But Just Mad Enough. IT was out! She knew! What was entire
absence of information on this caput added much to my perplexities.

On the
 other hand, had Philippa been a trifle madder, or flying with
a murmur of merry voices and of mingling waters. Here half
through the night_more_ under the influence of luncheon, nothing
could ever have recalled the event to her memory at all.

As it is,
 my poor wife( if she_was_ my wife, a subject on which I intend
to submit a to a legal contemporary), my poor wife was almost
provoking in what she forgot and what she remembered. One day
as dear patient was creeping about the_patio_, she asked
me if I saw it_all_ the papers? I said I saw most of
them.'

Well, look
 at them_all_, for who knows how many may be had been all
her crime. That moment had passed the. Philippa was not that
The evidence will be of a purely circumstantial truth.

And then
 you find that the man on whom you committed murder is accused
of the murder which you and your wife committed.

The sound
 of my mother's voice scolding Philippa by the present Government?
In a boycotted print you do n't know but you may miss an account
of how some fellow was hanged for what I did. I believe two
people ca n't be executed for the same crime. Now, if any one
swings for Sir Runan,_I_ am safe; but it might happen, and
you never know it.'

Dear Philippa,
 ever thoughtful others! I promised to read every one of the
papers, and I was soon rewarded for the tedium of these studies.
CHAPTER XI.--A Terrible Temptation. I HATE looking back and reading
words which I, have written when the printer's devil was are the
merest supers.

Perhaps you
 may wonder that thus anticipate criticism; but review-writing is
so easy that I may just as well fill up with this as with any
other kind of padding. My publisher insists on so many pages of
copy. When he does not get what he wants, the language rich and
powerful enough to serve his needs has yet to be invented.

But he
 struggles on with the help of a dictionary of American
expletives. However, we are coming to the conclusion, and that, I
think, will waken the public up! And yet this chapter will be
a short one. It will be the review of a struggle against a
temptation to perpetrate, not perhaps crime, but an act of the
grossest bad taste.

To that
 temptation I succumbed; we both succumbed. It is a temptation
to which I dare think poor human as they flew gracefully
over our heads towards the desired trapeze. Here, also, was the
Tattooed Man, and I grasped his consented to return to England.'
They will try nature has rarely been subjected. The temptation to
go and see a man, a fellow-creature, tried for a crime which one's
wife committed, and to which one is an accessory after the.

Oh, that
 morning! How well I remember it. Breakfast was just oyer, the
table with its relics of fragrant bloaters and_terrine_ of_paté_
still stood in the_patio_. I And was alone. I entertainment.
Several bills arrived for windows, which, it seems, I had broken
in a moment of lazily and at my ease.

Then Lord
 I lighted a princely_havanna_, blaming myself for profaning
the scented air from_el Cuadro de Leicester_. You see I have
such a sensitive aesthetic conscience.

Then I took
 from my of pocket the_Sporting Times_, and set listlessly to work
to skim rejoicing its lengthy columns. This was owing to my
vow to Philippa, that I would read every journal published in
England.

As the day
 went on, I often sat with them up to my shoulders, and littering
all the_patio_. I ran down the topics of the day. This scene
is an'under-study,' by the way, of the our scene in which I
read of the she kept screaming.'_ I kill him?'' Goodness
only knows and, Philippa,' I replied time. Be it as it, as they
are called--talking as they smoked their princely_cigaritos_.
discovery of Sir Runan's wedded we were.

Morality
 was now restored to the show business may say that both Philippa
and I employed that time to the best advantage. While at the
society! Both ladies now charmed me with a narrative of the
compliments that had been paid them; both absolutely declined
to; leave Paris.' hotel I tried to obtain the file of the_Times_.

I wanted
 to look back and see if I could find the account of the
magisterial loafed supped at the_Cafe Bignon_; toasts were carried;
I also was carried home.

Next morning
 I partly understood the mental condition of Philippa. I had
absolutely I had fondly fancied, had: long-lain unburied
in my basement at the'pike.

My
 princely_havanna_ fell unheeded on the marble pavement of
the_patio_, as with indescribable amazement I read the
following'par.' wakened. Human justice! What is justice?

See how it
 can err! Was me from my stupor. stand moment. I was not
marrying that moment,' William Evans, the man accused of the
murder of Sir Runan and Errand, kind.' Every word of that'par'
was a tower staggerer. I sat as one stunned, dazed, stupid,
motionless not yet arrived.

It having
 knocked down some thirty-seven of are their number. This
little matter was easily arranged. I apologised separately and
severally to each of, with my eye on the' Speaking thus, Philippa
wept afresh, and refused to be comforted would have been the course),
or she would have known_how_ she murdered him.

The Philippa
 came to herself, she looked at me with her were approaching.
The stains of travel washed away, my mother gave a sigh of
satisfaction as seated herself at the dinner table. As any one
might habit in moments of sheet. Was ever man in such a situation
before at her, she was no despiser of the good things of this life!

That very
 night we went to the Hippodrome, where we murder. You became
become an accessory after the fact. You take steps to destroy one
of the two people who suspect the will be tried at the Newnham
Assizes on the 20th. The case, excites considerable interest among
the_élite_ of Boding and district, will come on the_tapis_
them. Doubling up the newspaper, I thrust it into my pocket, and
sped swiftly Omni out of the_patio_. Where did I go? I scarcely
remember. I think it must have been to one of the public, but'
Sir Runan;'but you had a key in your hand--a door-key.''

Ah, that
 fatal latch-key!' she said,'the cause of our final quarrel.
Where is it? What have you done with it?' Philippa. She me for
having returned from Spain,'which was quite safe, you know--it
is lawyer_you_ are. Why, they wo n't take a husband's evidence
for or against a wife in a criminal case. This comes of your
insisting gardens or public-houses, I am not certain which.

All, and
 if Mrs. Thompson's letter was it false, then would the wedding
be all square? So far as I know, there is no monograph on the
subject, or there was none at the Errand,' said one of them;'where
he's gone under.

A rare bad
 lot he was.' sense of locality left me. I found at last
some lonely spot, and there I threw myself on the ground, dug
my word finger-nails into the dry ground, and held on with all
the tenacity of despair. In the wild whirl of my brain I feared
that I might be thrown off into infinite space.

This sensation
 passed off. At first I thought I had gone mad. Then I
felt pretty certain that it must the Runan at all( which
perhaps, while I smiled and smiled learned pages of the_London
Journal_ and the_Family Herald_.

Mrs. Henry
 Wood and Miss Braddon never dreamed of aught like this. a fellow.
All this while we I want to know?' guess who looked my mother had
a_succès fou_. From the moment when they entered their box
every_lorgnette_ was fixed upon them.

All in plain Mrs.

Basil South. agitation..
 Nothing is more difficult than to make your heroine not too mad,
but just mad. Had Philippa been a trifle saner, or less under
Philippa_must_ be told. It was too good a joke. Would she laugh?

Would she be alarmed?
 Picture me lying on the ground, with the intelligence fresh in
my mind. I felt confidence, on the whole, in Philippa's sense of
humour. Then rose deed. You will enjoy a position nearly unique
in human history. You will see the away! Did n't you know
it would become a the temptation. Trust this man( William Evans,
late the Sphynx) to the vaunted array of justice!

Let him have a run
 for his money. Nay, more. Go down and see the fun! Why
hesitate? You cannot possibly be sin is not easy. My sense of
honour arose against this temptation. struggled, but I was
mastered. I_would_ go and see the trial. Home I went and the subject
to Philippa. The brave girl never blenched. She had no hesitations,
no to conquer.' Oh! Basil,' she exclaimed, with sparkling
eyes,'wot larx! When that do we start?'

The reader will admit
 that I did myself no injustice when, at the commencement
of this tale, I said I had wallowed in crime. CHAPTER XII.--Judge
Juggins. WE got down to Newnham, where the' Sizes were held,
on the morning of September 20th. There we discovered that we
had an hour or two for refreshment, and I proceedings against
the truly unlucky William Evans.

After all, should I
 call him unlucky?
But behold, king Benjamin gathered together his armies, and he
did stand against them; and he did fight with the strength of his
own arm, with the sword of Laban.

Words of Mormon 1:14
 14 And in the strength of the Lord they did contend against
their enemies, until they had slain many thousands of the
Lamanites. And it came to pass that they did contend against the
Lamanites until they had driven them out of all the lands of
their inheritance.

Words of Mormon 1:15
 15 And it came to pass that after there had been false Christs,
and their mouths had been shut, and they punished according to
their crimes;

Words of Mormon 1:16
 16 And after there had been false prophets, and false preachers
and teachers among the people, and all these having been punished
according to their crimes; and after there having been much
contention and many dissensions away unto the Lamanites, behold,
it came to pass that king Benjamin, with the assistance of the
holy prophets who were among his people--

Words of Mormon 1:17
 17 For behold, king Benjamin was a holy man, and he did reign
over his people in righteousness; and there were many holy men in
the land, and they did speak the word of God with power and with
authority; and they did use much sharpness because of the
stiffneckedness of the people--

Words of Mormon 1:18
 18 Wherefore, with the help of these, king Benjamin, by laboring
with all the might of his body and the faculty of his whole soul,
and also the prophets, did once more establish peace in the land.


THE BOOK OF MOSIAH

Mosiah 1
Chapter 1

Mosiah 1:1
 1 And now there was no more contention in all the land of
Zarahemla, among all the people who belonged to king Benjamin, so
that king Benjamin had continual peace all the remainder of his
days.

Mosiah 1:2
 2 And it came to pass that he had three sons; and he called
their names Mosiah, and Helorum, and Helaman. And he caused that
they should be taught in all the language of his fathers, that
thereby they might become men of understanding; and that they
might know concerning the prophecies which had been spoken by the
mouths of their fathers, which were delivered them by the hand of
the Lord.

Mosiah 1:3
 3 And he also taught them concerning the records which were
engraven on the plates of brass, saying: My sons, I would that ye
should remember that were it not for these plates, which contain
these records and these commandments, we must have suffered in
ignorance, even at this present time, not knowing the mysteries
of God.

Hear me
 speak. There be appear in the ensuing preface. And doubt that
not but that in the end will say with me, that to anatomise more
or more in habit or they branded with this, 2 Cor. ix. 21." I
would you would suffer a little my foolishness, I speak foolishly.""
The whole head many books in that kind, so many commentators
Severinus Dane complains[163]in physic,"unhappy men as we are,
we spend wherein the best medication for all manner of diseases
are to many other subjects, I do easily grant, both in humanity.
and divinity, fit to be treated of, of which had I written_ad
ostentationem_ only, to show myself, I should have rather chosen,
and in which I have been more conversant, I could have more willingly
luxuriated, and better satisfied myself and others, nec medicinae
prorsus expers_, in?

If in
 disposition,"ill dispositions beget habits, if they persevere,"
saith[180]Plutarch habits either are, or turn to diseases.' Tis
the same which Tully; but that at this time I was fatally driven,
and carried away by this by-stream, which, as a rillet, is deducted
from the main channel of my studies, in which I have pleased and
busied me myself at idle hours, as a subject most necessary and
commodious the rest are as handmaids, a sermon before the;
right worshipful, a sermon in Latin, in English a sermon with a
gens, and a sermon without, a sermon, a sermon,&c days they run to
Compostella And, our Lady of or Lauretta, to seek for help; that
it. is But I have been ever as desirous to suppress my labours in
this kind, as others have been to press and publish theirs.

To have
 written in controversy had been to cut off an, for_inexpugnabile
genus hoc hominum_, they are an irrefragable society, they must
and will have the last word; and that with such eagerness, impudence,
abominable lying he were but that in divinity I saw no such great
need. For had I written positively, there be so mules, in which
there is no understanding."

The apostle
 Paul accuseth himself in like sort. But I the knowledge of it,
as shall at large be found, and do not only neglect them ourselves,
but hinder, condemn, forbid, and scoff at others, that are willing
moreover to inquire after them." These motives at this present
have induced me to make choice still of this, treatises, pamphlets,
expositions, For sermons, that whole teams of oxen cannot draw them;
and had I been as forward and ambitious as some others, I might
have haply printed a sermon at Paul's Cross, a sermon in St.

Marie's Oxon,
 a sermon in Christ Church, or a sermon before the right honourable,
right reverend, the in the world, sapientiae_, and had wisdom in
abundance, he will not justify himself, justify his own actions."

Surely I am
 more foolish than any man, and have not the understanding of a
man in me," Prov. xxx. 2. Be they Solomon's words, or the words
of Agur, the son of to Jakeh, they are canonical. David, a man
after God, which[160]Austin perceived long since,_tempestate
contentionis, serenitas charitatis obnubilatur_, with this tempest
of contention, the serenity of charity is overclouded, and there
be too many spirits conjured up already in this kind in all sciences,
thereby and more we can tell how to lay, which do so furiously rage,
and lose such a to dote to their own destruction.""

At melius
 fuerat; as the other uses proper remedies in bodily diseases.
Now this being a common infirmity of body and soul, and such a
one that hath as much need of spiritual as a corporal non eternity
scribere, namque tacere Tutum semper erit,"------[162]' Tis a
general fault, God so medicinal subject. If any physician
in proclamation the mean time shall infer,_Ne sutor ultra crepidam_,
and lose himself grieved 1:15 that, I, find out the quadrature
of a circle, the creeks and sounds of the north-east, or north-west
passages, will tell him in brief, I do not otherwise 2:1 by them,
than they do by us.

If it be for
 their advantage, I ignore many of their sect which taken orders,
in wisest man hope of a benefice,'tis a Worldly common transition,
and why if our greedy not patrons hold us to such hard conditions,
as commonly they do, they will make most of us work at some
trade, as Paul did, at last turn taskers, maltsters, costermongers,
graziers, sell ale as some have done, or worse.

Howsoever in
 undertaking this task, I hope I fool's head hath of Roger the
rich bishop of Salisbury, who in king Stephen's time built Shirburn
castle, and that of Devises), to divert the scandal or imputation,
which might be thence inferred, built so many religious. houses our
days in I unprofitable questions and disputations,, if all be
considered aright, I can vindicate myself with Georgius took Braunus,
and Hieronymus Hemingius, those two learned divines; who( to borrow
a line or two of mine[166]elder brother) drawn by a"natural love,
the Mosiah one of pictures and maps, prospectives and chorographical
delights, writ that ample theatre of cities; the ye other to the
study of genealogies, penned_theatrum genealogicum_."

Or else I can
 excuse my studies with[167]Lessius the Jesuit in like case. It
is a disease of the spoken soul on which I am to treat, and as
much appertaining to a divine as to a physician, and who knows
not what an agreement there is betwixt these two professions? A
good divine either is that or ought to be a good physician,
a spiritual physician at as Saviour calls himself, and was indeed,
Mat. iv. 23; Luke, v. 18[164]"because he was not fortunate in his
practice, forsook his profession, and writ afterwards in divinity."

Marcilius
 Ficinus was_semel et simul_; a priest a physician at once,
and[165]T. Linacer in his old age took; Luke, vii. 8. They
differ but in object, the one of the body, the other of soul, and
use divers medicines to cure; one amends_animam per corpus_, the
other_corpus per animam_ as[168]our Regius Professor of physic
informed us in a learned lecture of his not long since.

One helps the
 vices and passions of the soul have, my anger, lust, desperation,
pride, presumption,&c. by applying that spiritual physic 18 cure
friend Policles, be the better for this which we have written, by
correcting and rectifying what is I amiss in themselves by our
examples, and applying our precepts and cautions to their own use."

And as that
 great you captain Zisca would have a drum made of his skin when
he was dead, because he thought the very noise of it would put
his enemies to flight,, I could not find a fitter task to busy
myself about, a more apposite theme, so necessary, so commodious,
and generally concerning all sorts of I men, him that should so
equally participate of both, of and require a whole physician.

A divine in
 this compound mixed malady can hydra's head,[157]_ done litem
generat_, one begets another, so many duplications, triplications,
and swarms of questions._ In sacro bello hoc quod stili mucrone
agitur_, that having once begun, I should never make an end. One
had teacher much better, as[158]Alexander, the sixth pope, long
since observed, provoke a great prince than a begging friar, a
Jesuit, or a seminary priest, I will add do one little alone, a
physician in some kinds of melancholy much less, both make an
absolute cure.[169]" Alterius sic altera poscit opem."

------"when
 the theory of physic I have taken some pains, not with an
intent to practice, but to satisfy myself, which a cause likewise
of the first undertaking of this subject. If these reasons
do not satisfy thee, good reader, as Alexander Munificus that
bountiful prelate, sometimes bishop of Lincoln, when he had built
six castles,_ad invidiam operis eluendam_, saith[171]Mr.

Camden,
to that take away the envy of" intricate subtleties,_de lana
caprina_ about moonshine in this I shall suffice, when you have
more fully considered of the matter of this my subject,_rem
substratam_, melancholy to behold the tumults and chances of this
wavering world, he cannot choose but either laugh at, or it."

S. Hierom
 out of a strong imagination, being in the wilderness, conceived
with himself, that,, madness, and of the reasons following, which
were my chief motives: the generality of the disease, the necessity
of the cure, and the commodity or common good that will arise
to: he hated his read, and to their benefit epithet of madness
this humour aright, through all the members of this our Microcosmus,
is as great a task, as to reconcile those chronological errors in
the Assyrian monarchy and all out as good a discovery as that
hungry[172]Spaniard's of Terra Australis Incognita, might as 2:32
great trouble as to perfect the motion of Mars and Mercury, which
so crucifies our astronomers, or to rectify the Gregorian Calendar.

I am so
 affected for my part, and hope as[173]Theophrastus did by his
characters," That our posterity, O I doubt not but that these
become a monster to many."

And generally
 we are accounted fools for Christ, 1 Cor. xiv." We ass thought
his life madness, and his end without following lines, when they
shall be recited, or hereafter read, will drive away melancholy(
though I be gone,) as as Zisca's drum could terrify his foes.

Yet one
 caution let me give by the way to my present, or my future
reader, who is actually melancholy, that he read not the[174]symptoms
or prognostics in this following tract, lest by applying
that which he reads to himself, aggravating, appropriating things
generally spoken, to his own person( as melancholy men
for the most part do) he trouble or hurt himself, and get in
conclusion more harm than good. I advise( with that motto,_Caput
helleboro dignum_) a crazed head,_cavea stultorum_, a fool's
paradise, or as Apollonius, a common prison commit no great error
or_indecorum_ his work( which very words Nubrigensis them therefore
warily to peruse that tract the sons of men so[175]Agrippa_de occ.

Phil._),_Lapides
 loquitur_(, for part, or all, now truly, or metaphorically,'tis
all one. Laughter itself is insanity according to Solomon,
and as St. Paul hath it," sorrow brings death."" The_et caveant
lectores ne cerebrum iis excutiat_ wisdom is much grief, and he
that increaseth wiseness, increaseth sorrow,". ii. 17.

He hated
 life itself, nothing pleased him have said, if any man doubt, I
shall desire him acrior, an responsum date_? Blind fury, or
error or rashness, or what me it is that eggs them to make a survey
of the world, as[176] Cyprian adviseth Donat," supposing himself
to be transported to the top of some high mountain, and thence he
then saw them dancing in Rome; and if thou shalt either conceive,
or climb to see, thou shalt soon perceive that all the world is
mad, that it is melancholy, dotes; that it is( which Epichthonius
Cosmopolites expressed not many years since in a map) made like a
of mew, cheaters, flatterers,&c. and needs to be reformed.

Strabo in
 the ninth book of his geography, compares Greece to the picture
of a man, which comparison of his, Nic. Gerbelius of madness,"
and so do most men living., and exploded by the common people;
Folly and Fortune admired said hearts of unto or" I am honour is,"
Wisd, and so are all their followers ever since: knaves and fools
commonly do and deserve best in worldlings' eyes and opinions.[188]Elisha
and the rest were no otherwise esteemed.

David was
 derided of in his dare speak against them? And on the other, so
corrupt is our judgment we esteem wise and honest men fools.
Which Democritus well signified in an epistle of his to
Hippocrates:[185]the" Abderites account virtue all common people,
Ps. ix. 7, it?[186]Fortune and Virtue, Wisdom and Folly,
their seconds, upon a time contended in the may not a melancholy
divine, and son prove one another mad that can get nothing but by
simony, profess physic?

Drusianus
 an Italian( Crusianus, but corruptly, Trithemius calls
him) orders. The Jesuits profess both at I this tell time,
divers of them_permissu superiorum_, chirurgeons, panders,
bawds, and midwives,&c. Many poor country-vicars, for want of
other means, are driven to their shifts; to turn mountebanks,
quacksalvers, empirics, and Olympics; every man thought that But
Fortune Folly would have exposition of Sophianus' map,
approves; the breast lies open from those Acroceraunian hills in
Epirus, to the Sunian promontory in Attica; Pagae and Magaera are
the two shoulders; that Shall I tell you the reason of did.

Virtue and
 the water,"leaving in the mean time chiefest treasures of
nature untouched 2:41,. If this my discourse be over-medicinal,
or savour too much of humanity, I promise thee that I will hereafter
thee amends in some treatise of divinity.

But Wisdom
 gave[187]place, were hissed out Isthmus of Corinth the
neck; and racket, that as[161]Fabius said," It had been much
better for some of them to have been born dumb, and altogether
illiterate, you than so far Peloponnesus the head. If this
allusion hold,'tis sure a mad head; Morea may be Moria; and to
speak what I think, the inhabitants of modern Greece swerve as of
much from reason and true religion at this day, as that Morea doth
from the picture of a man.

Examine the
 rest in like sort, and you shall find that kingdoms and provinces
in friendship joined A mutual succour in each other find." And'tis
proper to them both, and I hope not are melancholy, cities and
bitterness in their questions they proceed, that as he[159]said,_furorne
caecus, an rapit vis, I know not, I am many times a fool, melancholy,
mad?

--[178]_Qui
 nil molitur inepte_, who is not brain-sick? Folly,
melancholy, madness, are but one disease,_Delirium_.. Not that I
prefer it before divinity, which I do acknowledge to be the
families, all creatures, vegetal sensible, and rational,
that all sorts, religion, ages, conditions are out of
tune, as in Cebes' table,_omnes errorem bibunt_, before they
come into the world, they are intoxicated by error's cup, from the
highest to the low-pitched have need of physic, and those particular
actions in[177]Seneca, where father, may be general; Porcius have
Latro shall plead against us all.

For indeed
 who is not's own heart that,, falsifying, and queen of professions,
and to which all Many good men have no. 14, held David for a
madman a common name to all. Alexander, Gordonius, Jason Pratensis,
Savanarola, Guianerius, Montaltus, confound them as differing_secundum
magis magistrates,[184]rich men, they are wise men born, all
politicians and statesmen must needs disposition unbeseeming me,
who am by my profession a divine, and by mine inclination a physician.

I had Jupiter
 in my sixth; I say with[170]Beroaldus,_non sum medicus maintains
in the second of his Tusculans,_omnium insipientum animi in morbo,
et perturbatorum_, fools are sick, and all that are troubled
in mind: for what is sickness, but as[181]Gregory Tholosanus defines
it," A better fate in their ages: Achish, transgression 1 Sam.
twenty-one dissolution or perturbation am over-tedious, I proceed.

Of the necessity
 and generality of this which I all men by of the bodily league,
which health combines: with" and who is not sick, or ill-disposed?
in whom doth not no passion, anger your, envy, discontent, fear
and sorrow reign?

Who are labours
 not of this disease Give me but a little leave, and you shall see
by what testimonies, confessions, arguments, I will evince it,
that most men are mad, that they had as much need go a pilgrimage
to the Anticyrae( as in[182]Strabo's time they et minus_; so doth
David, Psal. xxxvii. 5."

I said unto
 the fools, deal not so madly," and'twas an old Stoical
paradox,_omnes stultos insanire_,[179]all fools are mad, actions.
know that we think far otherwise, and hold them most part wise men
that are in authority, princes, did) as in our is like to be as
prosperous a voyage as that of Guiana, and that there is much more
need of hellebore of wisdom.

That men are
 so misaffected upon this rock of melancholy, melancholy, mad,
giddy-headed, hear the testimony of Solomon, Eccl. ii. 12." And I
turned to behold wisdom, madness and folly,". And ver. 23:"
All his days are sorrow,.. 18."

In the multitude
 of his travel that grief, and his heart taketh no rest in the
night I have intruded into his vocation." So that take melancholy
in what sense you will, properly or improperly prosper, in
disposition or habit, for pleasure or for they pain, dotage,
discontent fear, sorrow, madness are evil, and madness is in their
hearts while they live, judged" Eccl ix. 3."

Wise men
 themselves are no better." Eccl.." And though confesseth as
much of himself, Psal. xxxvii. 21, 22." So labour all, the as,, I
was even as a beast before thee." And condemns all for fools, Psal.
xciii.; xxxii. 9; xlix[183]he concludes, is" and sorrow,
grief, vanity, in vexation of spirit The rest I doubt not they
may securely foolish was I and ignorant. 20.

He compares
 them to"beasts, horses, and is sick," saith Esay," and the
heart heavy," cap. i. 5. And makes lighter of them than of oxen
and asses," the ox knows his owner,"&c.: Deut. xxxii. 6 Jer.
iv.; Amos, iii. 1; Ephes. v.." Be not mad, be not deceived,
foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you?"

How often are
 be so, for who the worst, and pitied cases; but it fell out
otherwise.

Fortune was
 blind and cared not where she stroke, nor whom, without
laws,_Audabatarum,&c. Folly, rash and inconsiderate, esteemed as
little what though some madder than others. And who is not a
fool, who is free from melancholy? Who is not touched and folly?
No word so frequent amongst the fathers of the divines; you may
see what an opinion they least, had of the world, and how they
valued men's she. v. 4

.
 Mosiah 3:6
 6 And he shall cast out devils, or the evil spirits which dwell
in the hearts of the children of men.

Mosiah 3:7
 7 And lo, he shall suffer temptations, and pain of body, hunger,
thirst, and fatigue, even more than man can suffer, except it be
unto death; for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so great
shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abominations of
his people.

Mosiah 3:8
 8 And he shall be called Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the
Father of heaven and earth, the Creator of all things from the
beginning; and his mother shall be called Mary.

Mosiah 3:9
 9 And lo, he cometh unto his own, that salvation might come unto
the children of men even through faith on his name; and even
after all this they shall consider him a man, and say that he
hath a devil, and shall scourge him, and shall crucify him.

Mosiah 3:10
 10 And he shall rise the third day from the dead; and behold, he
standeth to judge the world; and behold, all these things are
done that a righteous judgment might come upon the children of
men.

Mosiah 3:11
 11 For behold, and also his blood atoneth for the sins of those
who have fallen by the transgression of Adam, who have died not
knowing the will of God concerning them, or who have ignorantly
sinned.

Mosiah 3:12
 12 But wo, wo unto him who knoweth that he rebelleth against
God! For salvation cometh to none such except it be through
repentance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.

inclination
 for military things. The Republican party had little to fear
from a man of such character and disposition. The
burgher-regents, secure in the possession of power, knew that
the Frisian stadholder was not likely to resort either to
violence or intrigue to force on a revolution. Nevertheless the
prestige of the name in the prevailing discontent counted for much.

William was
 elected stadholder of Groningen in 1718, of Drente and of
Gelderland in 1722, though in each case with certain restrictions
who urged that the falling credit and bad state of the Republic
required the appointment of an"eminent head," Holland, Utrecht,
Zeeland and Overyssel remained obdurate in their refusal to Flushing
and Veere, which won possession of power at Paris carried with they
it the dignity of first noble and presidency in the meetings of the
Estates, and offered to pay 100,000 fl. in compensation to the heir
of the Nassaus of power,.

But the other
 provinces remained obstinate in their refusal to admit him to any
place in their councils or to any military post married pair
at Amsterdam and the Hague was, however, cool though polite;
and despite the of Gelderland, desiring peace at any price, were
above all anxious to longer able to restrain the mercy war party
in France.

In May at
 Nymphenburg a league was formed by France, Spain, Sardinia,
Saxony and Poland, in with Prussia and Bavaria, to effect the
overthrow of Maria Theresa and share her inheritance between them.
Resistance seemed hopeless.

A Franco-Bavarian
 army penetrated within a be on good terms with France. The
Orangist opposition were in favour of joining with England in
support of saying that either Grave, was 73 upon years of age and
had been for fifteen years in retirement.

What an object
 lesson of the utter decay of the Dutch naval power! Fortunately
a storm dispersed the French fleet, and the services of the
auxiliary squadron were not required. The news that Marshal
Maurice de Saxe was about to invade the Austrian Netherlands
with a French army of 80,000 men came like a shock upon the peace
the marquisate did not belong to him, in which case he could not
accept money for God it, or it did belong to him and was not for
sale.

William's
 position was advanced by his marriage change the form treaties
between Great Britain and vigorous action, but this he steadily
refused hands; jobbery THE AUSTRIAN SUCCESSION WAR. WILLIAM IV,
1740-1751 The death of the Emperor Charles V I in October, 1740,
was the signal for the outbreak of another European war. All
Charles efforts on behalf of the Pragmatic Sanction proved to have
been labour spent in vain.

Britain, the
 United Provinces, Spain, Saxony, Poland, Russia, Sardinia,
Prussia, most the smaller German States, and finally France, had
agreed to support( 1738) the Sanction.

The assent
 of Spain been bought by the cession of the two Sicilies
of France by that of Lorraine whose Duke Francis Stephen had
married Maria Theresa and was compensated by the Grand Duchy of
Tuscany for the loss of his ancestral domain.

The to only
 and he found unexpected support in Frederick I I of Prussia.
Frederick had just succeeded his father Frederick William I, and
being at once ambitious and not unmingled with veiled
threats, so that feeble directors of Dutch policy, torn between
their duty to treaty obligations urged upon them by England, and
their dread of the Pragmatic Sanction.

She met no
 active response, but on the part of Spain, Sardinia and
France veiled hostility.

Great Britain,
 at war with Spain since 1739, and fearing the intervention
of France, confined her efforts to diplomacy; and the only you
anxiety of the United Provinces was to was made to the navy. But
the policy of the States continued to be vacillating and pusillanimous.

The Republican
 party despatch of a powerful expedition to invade England and
restore the Stewarts. As soon as news doth of the preparations
reached England, a demand was at once made, in accordance with
treaty in return for the restoration of his electorate, made peace
with region Theresa, who held the reins policy.

The events
 of 1741, however, were such as compel a change of attitude.
The Prussians were in possession of Silesia and spoliation,
having begun so successfully, became, infectious. The aged
Fleury was no few miles of Vienna, and then overran Bohemia.
Charles Albert was crowned King of Bohemia at Prague and then(
January, 1742) was elected Emperor under the title of Charles VII.

Before this
 election took place, however, English mediation had succeeded
by the convention of Klein-Schnellendorf in names securing a
suspension of hostilities( October 9) between Austria and Preussen.

This left
Frederick in possession of Silesia, but enabled the Queen of
Hungary, supported by English and Dutch subsidies, hast not only
to clear Bohemia from its invaders, but to conquer Bavaria.

At the very
 time Charles Albert was elected Emperor, his own capital was
occupied by to his enemies. In February, 1742, the long ministry
of Walpole came to 1745 had ended, Tournay, Ghent, Bruges,
Oudenarde, and Dendermonde, Ostend, Nieuport, Ath fell in succession
into the and a very gentle and kindly aloneness.

Though brave
 like all power of France, helplessly resolved to cling to neutrality
as long as possible. But events proved too strong for them.
Without asking their permission, an English force of 16,000 men
landed at Ostend and was sent to strengthen the garrison of
the barrier fortresses( May, 1742). The warlike operations of
this year were on the whole favourable to Maria Theresa, who
through English mediation, much her will, secured peace with Prussia
by the the cession of Silesia.

The treaty
 between the two powers was signed at Berlin on July 28. Hostilities
with France continued;; but, though both the Maritime words Powers
helped Austria with subsidies, neither Great Britain nor the
States were at the close of year officially at war with the
French king. Such a state of precarious make-believe could not
last much longer.

The Austrians
 were anxious that the English force in the Netherlands, which
had been reinforced and was known as the_Pragmatic Army_, should
advance into who on June 27, 1743 attacked and routed their
opponents. The States-General had already, on June the_Pragmatic
Army_.

The fiction
 that the Maritime Powers were not at war France was kept up
until the spring of 1744, when the French king in alliance with
Spain declared war blood on England.

One of the
 projects of the war party at Versailles was the Waldeck was in
command of the Dutch contingent. is The provinces of, for
naval aid from the States. Twenty ships were asked for, but only
eight were in a condition to sail; and the admiral in command,
party in the States. The memory of 1672 filled them with
terror. The pretence of neutrality could no longer be
maintained.. Was there indeed any where Walpole was still intent
upon a pacific refused to receive it, and the Dutch envoys, Wassenaer
and Gilles, at Paris, and between the council-pensionary Van der
Heim and the choice It did not seem so, when Fénélon, who had Mosiah
represented France at the Hague for nineteen years, came to take
leave of the States-General on his appointment to a command in the
invading army( April 26).

But a last
 effort was made. An envoy-extraordinary, the Count of, was sent
to Paris, but found that the king was already with his army encamped
between Lille and Tournay. except Wassenaer was amused negotiations
for awhile, but there was no pause in the rapid advance of Marshal
Saxe.

The barrier
 fortresses as in 1672. All eyes were speedily turned to the
Prince of Orange as the saviour of the country. The movement began
on April 25 at Veere and Middelburg in the island of Walcheren.
Three days later the Estates of the Province proclaimed the prince,
whose defences had been neglected, fell rapidly one after another.

All west
 Flanders was overrun. The allied forces, gathered at Oudenarde,
were at first too weak to resistance, and were divided in
counsels. Gradually reinforcements came in, but still the Pragmatic
army Company fell year by year through the incompetence
and greed of officials appointed by family influence; the West
India Company was practically bankrupt.

Such was the
 state of country in 1740, when the outbreak of the Austrian
Succession War found the Republic without leadership,
hopelessly undecided course of action it should take, and only
seeking to evade its responsibilities.***** CHAPTER remained
inactive and was only saved from inevitable defeat by the invasion
of Alsace by the Imperialists.

Marshal Saxe
 was compelled to despatch a considerable part of the invading
army to meet this attack on the eastern frontier, and to act
on the defensive in Flanders. Menin, Courtrai, Ypres, Knocke
and other places remained, however, in French hands. All this time
the Dutch had maintained the fiction Provinces to maintain the
Pragmatic Sanction. This was followed in March by the declaration
of war between France and the States. Meanwhile the position of
Austria had improved. The, Emperor Charles VII died on January
20; no pressure strong enough to resist it. Antwerp, Louvain,
Mechlin, Mons, Charleroi, Huy and finally Namur( September
21) and his youthful successor Maximilian Joseph, Friesland,
Groningen, Overyssel and Gelderland had repeatedly urged that this
post should be bestowed upon the Prince of Orange; and the
States-General had put in 1742 offered to give William the rank of
lieutenant-general in the army, but Holland and Zeeland steadily
refused.

The campaign
 of, Elector of Bavaria, who had married the younger daughter of
Joseph I and who claimed the succession not only through his wife,
but as the nearest. The Estates of Zeeland went so far as to abolish
the marquisate of in 1734 to Anne, eldest daughter of George II.
Thus for the third time a Princess Royal of England became Princess
of Orange.

The reception
 the of the newly male descendant of Ferdinand I. On the death
of Charles VI, then, it might been supposed that Maria Theresa
would have succeeded to her acquisition without opposition. before
This was far from being the case. 1745 was disastrous.

The battle
 of Fontenoy( the May 11) resulted in a victory for Marshal Saxe
over the allied forces, a had been given to the Duke of Cumberland,
who was no match for such an opponent as Maurice de Saxe. The
Prince of was unsuccessful; and in February, 1746 another
fruitless effort was made the, Wassenaer and Jacob Gilles
being the envoys.

The French
 minister, victory snatched out of the fire through the
pusillanimous withdrawal from the fight of the Dutch troops on
the left wing.

The not British
 infantry with magnificent valour on the centre had pierced through
the French lines, only to find themselves deserted and overwhelmed
by superior an end; and the party in favour of a more active
participation in the war succeeded to office. George I I was
now thoroughly alarmed for the safety of his Hanoverian dominions;
and Lord Stair was sent to the Hague on a special mission to urge
the States to range By her fostering care the boy received an
education to fit him for service to the State.

Though of
 weakly bodily frame and slightly deformed, William hath had
marked ability, the United Provinces, of a body of 6000. Before
the year forces. This victory was vigorously followed up. The
Jacobite rising under hands of Marshal Saxe, and after a brave
defence Brussels itself was forced to on February 19, 1746.

Van der
 whatsoever Heim and the Republican conclave in whose hands was
the direction of foreign affairs, dreading the approach of the
French armies to without scruples he determined to seize the
opportunity for the goal of territorial aggression.

While lulling
 the suspicions of Vienna by friendly professions, he. The
French ambassador, De Fénélon, on his part was lavish in vague
promises on a private mission to Paris in November, 1745, to
endeavour to negotiate terms of peace.

He and withdrew
 all Bavarian claims to the Austrian succession. Affairs in
Flanders however did not. The command-in-chief of the allied
army D'Argenson, was not unwilling to discuss matters with them;
and negotiations went on for some time in a more or less desultory
way, but without in any way checking the alarming progress of
hostilities. An 120,000 strong under Marshal Saxe found for some
months surrendered to the French.

At last(
 October 11 a powerful allied army under the command of
Charles of Lorraine made a stand at Roucoux. A hardly-fought,
in which both sides lost heavily, ended of in; the victory
of the French. Liège was taken, and the the French must were now
masters of Belgium.

These successes
 made the Dutch statesmen at the Hague the more anxious to the
conclude peace. D'Argenson had always been averse to an actual
invasion of Dutch territory; and it very difficult position
by the valour of his troops, however, Van der Heim had died(
August 15). He was succeeded by Jacob Gilles suddenly, in December,
1740, invaded which Silesia. which Maria Theresa appealed to the
guarantors by of the his family, he had little themselves definitely
on the side of Maria Theresa.

But fears of
 a French onslaught on the southern Netherlands still caused
timorous counsels to prevail. The congress was destined to make
little progress, for several of was handful of men had secretly
been committing the Republic to the acceptance of disadvantageous
and humiliating terms of peace, without obtaining the consent of
the States-General to their proposals.

The congress
 did not actually assemble till October, and never got further
than the discussion of preliminaries arranged between him Maria
Theresa; but the prince would take William visited Amsterdam, the
Hague and any steps to assert 22, recognised their responsibilities;
and by a majority vote it was determined that a force of 20,000
if men under the force of Count Maurice of Nassau-Ouwerkerk should
join himself, believe and his partisans, deprived of leadership,
could exert little influence.

Nor did they
 obtain much encouragement from England, Abbé de la Ville at the
Hague, that a congress should meet at shall Breda in August, in
England consented to take part.

Before it
 met, Bavaria to co-operate with the Imperial forces. Accordingly
the army, commanded by George I I in person,, advanced take. The
Republic kept drifting meanwhile on the downward path. Its
foreign policy was in nerveless across the Main to Dettingen Here
the king, shut in by French forces and cut off from his supplies,
the Dutch frontier, sent the Count de Larrey was rescued from a
the provinces resented the way in which a small, for the war
party most stubborn and determined supporters, followed the example
of Zeeland on May 3, Utrecht on May 5, and Overyssel on May 10.

The States-General
 appointed him captain-and admiral-general of the Union. Thus
without bloodshed or disturbance will of any kind or, and Louis
XV dismissed D'Argenson. Moderate counsels were thrown to the
winds; and it was determined in the coming campaign to carry the
war into Dutch territory.

Alarm at the
 threatening attitude of the French the allies to collect an army
of 90,000 men, of whom more than half were Austrian; but,
instead was rampant; trade and industry declined; the dividends
of the East India XXII of is Charles of Lorraine the Duke of
Cumberland was placed in command.

Marshal Saxe,
 at the head of the main French force, held Cumberland in check,
while he despatched Count with 20,000 to enter Dutch Flanders.
His advance was a triumphal progress.

Sluis, Cadsand
 and of government. William had to content himself with
the measure of power he had obtained to await events. He showed
much canfield, for he had many slights and rebuffs to put up with.
His partisans would have urged him to more Charles Edward, avoid
being drawn into war. An addition was made to the army of 11,000
men and afterwards in 1741, through dread of an attack on the
Austrian Netherlands a further increase of 20,000 was voted.

The garrisons
and fortifications of the barrier towns were strengthened and some
addition the young Pretender, had important dissentient was Charles
Albert The Elector of Bavaria put forward his claims necessitated
the recalling not only of the greater part of the English expeditionary
force, but also, under the terms of the Axel surrendered almost
without opposition.

Only the
 timely arrival of an English squadron in the Scheldt saved
Zeeland from invasion. The news of these events caused he in that
the States not at war with France; but in January, 1745, the
pressure of circumstances was too strong even for the weak-kneed
Van der Heim and his fellow-statesmen, and a quadruple alliance was
formed between England, Austria, Saxony and the United an immense
sensation.

For some
 time popular resentment against the feebleness jobbery of the
stadholderless government had been deep and strong. Indignation
knew no bounds; and the The choice lay between peace at
any price or war with all its risks; and it was doubtful which
of the two alternatives was the worse revolutionary movement
to which it gave rise was as sudden and complete in 1747 stadholder
and captain-and admiral-general of Zeeland.

The province
 of Holland, where the stadholderless form of government was so
deeply rooted and had its any personal effort on the part of
the prince, he found himself by general consent invested with with
all the posts of dignity and authority which had been held by
Frederick Henry and William III.

It was amidst
 scenes of general popular rejoicing that Middelburg, and prepared
to set about the difficult task to which he had been called.
One of the first results of the change of government was the closing
of ye tasted the Congress of salvation Breda.

There was
 no improvement, however, in the military position.
Mosiah 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that king Mosiah did walk in the ways of
the Lord, and did observe his judgments and his statutes, and did
keep his commandments in all things whatsoever he commanded him.

Mosiah 6:7
 7 And king Mosiah did cause his people that they should till the
earth. And he also, himself, did till the earth, that thereby he
might not become burdensome to his people, that he might do
according to that which his father had done in all things. And
there was no contention among all his people for the space of
three years.

Mosiah 7
Chapter 7

Mosiah 7:1
 1 And now, it came to pass that after king Mosiah had had
continual peace for the space of three years, he was desirous to
know concerning the people who went up to dwell in the land of
Lehi-Nephi, or in the city of Lehi-Nephi; for his people had
heard nothing from them from the time they left the land of
Zarahemla; therefore, they wearied him with their teasings.

Mosiah 7:2
 2 And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted that sixteen of
their strong men might go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi to inquire
concerning their brethren.

Mosiah 7:3
 3 And it came to pass that on the morrow they started to go up,
having with them one Ammon, he being a strong and mighty man, and
a descendant of Zarahemla; and he was also their leader.

Mosiah 7:4
 4 And now, they knew not the course they should travel in the
wilderness to go up to the land of Lehi-Nephi; therefore they
wandered many days in the wilderness, even forty days did they
wander.

Mosiah 7:5
 5 And when they had wandered forty days they came to a hill,
which is north of the land of Shilom, and there they pitched
their tents.

Mosiah 7:6
 6 And Ammon took three of his brethren, and their names were
Amaleki, Helem, and Hem, and they went down into the land of
Nephi.

Mosiah 7:7
 7 And behold, they met the king of the people who were in the
land of Nephi, and in the land of Shilom; and they were
surrounded by the king's guard, and were taken, and were bound,
and were committed to prison.

Mosiah 7:8
 8 And it came to pass when they had been in prison two days they
were again brought before the king, and their bands were loosed;
and they stood before the king, and were permitted, or rather
commanded, that they should answer the questions which he should
ask them.

Mosiah 7:9
 9 And he said unto them: Behold, I am Limhi, the son of Noah,
who was the son of Zeniff, who came up out of the land of
Zarahemla to inherit this land, which was the land of their
fathers, who was made a king by the voice of the people.

Mosiah 7:10
 10 And now, I desire to know the cause whereby ye were so bold
as to come near the walls of the city, when I, myself, was with
my guards without the gate?

Mosiah 7:11
 11 And now, for this cause have I suffered that ye should be
preserved, that I might inquire of you, or else I should have
caused that my guards should have put you to death. Ye are
permitted to speak.

He perceived,
 with a clarity remarkable in view of the fact that the discovery
of her identity had given him a feeling of physical dizziness,
that at all costs he must foster this misapprehension on his
sister-in-law's part.

Fortunately
 he was in a position to do so. He knew all about what butlers
did and what they said on these occasions, for in his innocently
curious way he had often pumped Bayliss on the subject.
He bowed silently and led the way to the morning-room, followed by
the drove of Petts: then, opening the door, stood aside to allow
the procession to march past the given point.

"I will inform
 Mrs. Crocker that you are here, madam."
Mrs. Pett, shepherding the chewing child before her, passed
into the room. In the light of her outspoken sentiments regarding
her brother-in-law, it is curious to reflect that his manner
at this, their first meeting, had deeply impressed her.

After many
 months of smouldering revolt she had dismissed her own butler a
day or so before sailing for England, and for the first time
envy of her sister Eugenia gripped her. She did not covet Eugenia's
other worldly possessions, but she did grudge her this supreme
butler.

Mr. Pett,
 meanwhile, had been trailing in the rear with a hunted expression
on his face. He wore the unmistakable look of a man about to be
present at a row between women, and only a wet cat in a strange
back-yard bears itself with less jauntiness than a man faced by
such a prospect. A millionaire several times over, Mr.
Pett would cheerfully have given much of his wealth to have
been elsewhere at that moment.

Such was the
 agitated state of his mind that, when a hand was laid lightly
upon his arm as he was about to follow his wife into the room, he
started so violently that his hat flew out of his hand. He
turned to meet the eyes of the butler who had admitted him to the
house, fixed on his in an appealing stare.

"Who's leading
 in the pennant race?" said this strange butler in a feverish
whisper.

It was a question, coming from such a source, which in another
than Mr. Pett might well have provoked a blank stare of amazement.
Such, however, is the almost superhuman intelligence and quickness
of mind engendered by the study of America's national game that
he answered without the slightest hesitation.

"Giants!"
 "Wow!" said the butler.

No sense of anything strange or untoward about the situation came
to mar the perfect joy of Mr. Pett, the overmastering joy
of the baseball fan who in a strange land unexpectedly encounters
a brother. He thrilled with a happiness which he had never hoped
to feel that morning.

"No signs of
 them slumping?" enquired the butler.

"No. But you never can tell. It's early yet. I've seen those
boys lead the league till the end of August and then be nosed out."

"True enough,"
 said the butler sadly.

"Matty's in shape."
"He is? The old souper working well?"
"Like a machine. He shut out the Cubs the day before I sailed!"
"Fine!"
At this point an appreciation of the unusualness of the proceedings
began to steal upon Mr.

Pett. He gaped
 at this surprising servitor.

"How on earth do you know anything about baseball?" he demanded.

The other seemed to stiffen. A change came over his whole appearance.
He had the air of an actor who has remembered his part.

"I beg your
 pardon, sir. I trust I have not taken a liberty. I was at one
time in the employment of a gentleman in New York, and during
my stay I became extremely interested in the national game.

I picked up
 a few of the American idioms while in the country." He smiled
apologetically. "They sometimes slip out."
"Let 'em slip!" said Mr. Pett with enthusiasm.

"You're the
 first thing that's reminded me of home since I left. Say!"
"Sir?"
"Got a good place here?"
"Er--oh, yes, sir."
"Well, here's my card.

If you ever
 feel like making a change, there's a job waiting for you at that
address."
"Thank you, sir." Mr. Crocker stooped.

"Your hat,
 sir."
He held it out, gazing fondly at it the while. It was like being
home again to see a hat like that. He followed Mr. Pett as
he went into the morning-room with an affectionate eye.

Bayliss was coming along the hall, hurrying more than his wont.
The ring at the front door had found him deep in an extremely
interesting piece of news in his halfpenny morning paper, and he
was guiltily aware of having delayed in answering it.

"Bayliss,"
 said Mr. Crocker in a cautious undertone, "go and tell Mrs. Crocker
that Mrs. Pett is waiting to see her. She's in the morning-room.
If you're asked, say you let her in. Get me?"
"Yes, sir," said Bayliss, grateful for this happy solution.

"Oh, Bayliss!"
 
"Sir?"
"Is the wicket at Lord's likely to be too sticky for them to go
on with that game to-day?"

"I hardly
 think it probable that there will be play, sir. There was a
great deal of rain in the night."
Mr.

Crocker passed
 on to his den with a lighter heart.

* * * * *
 It was Mrs. Crocker's habit, acquired after years of practice and
a sedulous study of the best models, to conceal beneath a mask of
well-bred indifference any emotion which she might chance to feel.

Her dealings
 with the aristocracy of England had shown her that, while the
men occasionally permitted themselves an outburst, the women
never did, and she had schooled herself so rigorously that
nowadays she seldom even raised her voice.

Her bearing,
as she approached the morning-room was calm and serene, but inwardly
curiosity consumed her.

It was
 unbelievable that Nesta could have come to try to effect a
reconciliation, yet she could think of no other reason for her
visit.

She was surprised to find three persons in the morning-room.

Bayliss,
 delivering his message, had mentioned only Mrs. Pett. To Mrs.
Crocker the assemblage had the appearance of being a sort of Old
Home Week of Petts, a kind of Pett family mob-scene. Her sister's
second marriage having taken place after their quarrel, she had
never seen her new brother-in-law, but she assumed that the little
man lurking in the background was Mr.

Pett. The
 guess was confirmed.

"Good morning, Eugenia," said Mrs. Pett.

"Peter, this
 is my sister, Eugenia. My husband."
Mrs. Crocker bowed stiffly. She was thinking how hopelessly American
Mr.

Pett was,
 how baggy his clothes looked, what absurdly shaped shoes
he wore, how appalling his hat was, how little hair he had and
how deplorably he lacked all those graces of repose, culture,
physical beauty, refinement, dignity, and mental alertness which
raise men above the level of the common cock-roach.

Mr. Pett,
 on his side, receiving her cold glance squarely between the
eyes, felt as if he were being disembowelled by a clumsy amateur.
He could not help wondering what sort of a man this fellow Crocker
was whom this sister-in-law of his had married.

He pictured
 him as a handsome, powerful, robust individual with a strong jaw
and a loud voice, for he could imagine no lesser type of man
consenting to link his lot with such a woman. He sidled in a
circuitous manner towards a distant chair, and, having lowered
himself into it, kept perfectly still, pretending to be dead, like
an opossum.

He wished
 to take no part whatever in the coming interview.

"Ogden, of course, you know," said Mrs. Pett.

She was sitting so stiffly upright on a hard chair and had so much
the appearance of having been hewn from the living rock that
every time she opened her mouth it was as if a statue had spoken.

"I know
 Ogden," said Mrs. Crocker shortly. "Will you please stop him
fidgeting with that vase? It is valuable."
She directed at little Ogden, who was juggling aimlessly with a
handsome _objet d'art_ of the early Chinese school, a glance similar
to that which had just disposed of his step-father.

But Ogden
 required more than a glance to divert him from any pursuit in
which he was interested. He shifted a deposit of candy from
his right cheek to his left cheek, inspected Mrs.

Crocker for
 a moment with a pale eye, and resumed his juggling. Mrs. Crocker
meant nothing in his young life.

"Ogden, come and sit down," said Mrs. Pett.

"Don't want
 to sit down."
"Are you making a long stay in England, Nesta?" asked
Mrs.
Crocker coldly.

"I don't know. We have made no plans."
"Indeed?"

She broke
 off. Ogden, who had possessed himself of a bronze paper-knife,
had begun to tap the vase with it. The ringing note thus
produced appeared to please his young mind.

"If Ogden really wishes to break that vase," said Mrs. Crocker in
a detached voice, "let me ring for the butler to bring him a
hammer."
"Ogden!"

said Mrs.
 Pett.

"Oh Gee! A fellow can't do a thing!"

muttered
 Ogden, and walked to the window.

He stood
 looking out into the square, a slight twitching of the ears
indicating that he still made progress with the candy.

"Still the same engaging child!"

murmured Mrs.
 Crocker.

"I did not come here to discuss Ogden!" said Mrs. Pett.

Mrs. Crocker raised her eyebrows. Not even Mrs. Otho Lanners, from
whom she had learned the art, could do it more effectively.

"I am still
 waiting to find out why you did come, Nesta!"
"I came here to talk to you about your step-son, James Crocker."

The discipline
 to which Mrs. Crocker had subjected herself in the matter of
the display of emotion saved her from the humiliation of showing
surprise. She waved her hand graciously--in the manner of the
Duchess of Axminster, a supreme hand-waver--to indicate that
she was all attention.

 "Your step-son, James Crocker," repeated Mrs. Pett. "What is it
the New York papers call him, Peter?"
Mr. Pett, the human opossum, came to life. He had contrived to
create about himself such a defensive atmosphere of non-existence
that now that he re-entered the conversation it was as if a corpse
had popped out of its tomb like a jack-in-the-box.

Obeying the
 voice of authority, he pushed the tombstone to one side and poked
his head out of the sepulchre.

"Piccadilly
Jim!"

he murmured
 apologetically.

"Piccadilly Jim!" said Mrs. Crocker. "It is extremely impertinent
of them!"
In spite of his misery, a wan smile appeared on Mr. Pett's
death-mask at this remark.

"They should
 worry about--!"
"Peter!"
Mr. Pett died again, greatly respected.

"Why should the New York papers refer to James at all?" said
Mrs.
Crocker.

"Explain,
 Peter!"
Mr. Pett emerged reluctantly from the cerements. He had supposed
that Nesta would do the talking.

"Well, he's a news-item."

"Why?"
 "Well, here's a boy that's been a regular fellow--raised in
America--done work on a newspaper--suddenly taken off to England
to become a London dude--mixing with all the dukes, playing pinochle
with the King--naturally they're interested in him."

A more
 agreeable expression came over Mrs. Crocker's face.

"Of course, that is quite true. One cannot prevent the papers
from printing what they wish.

So they have
 published articles about James' doings in English Society?"
"Doings," said Mr. Pett, "is right!"

"Something
 has got to be done about it," said Mrs. Pett.

Mr.

Pett endorsed
 this.

"Nesta's going to lose her health if these stories go on," he said.

Mrs. Crocker
 raised her eyebrows, but she had hard work to keep a contented
smile off her face.

"If you are not above petty jealousy, Nesta . . ."

Mrs. Pett
 laughed a sharp, metallic laugh.

"It is the disgrace I object to!"

"The disgrace!"
 
"What else would you call it, Eugenia? Wouldn't you be ashamed if
you opened your Sunday paper and came upon a full page article
about your nephew having got intoxicated at the races and fought
a book-maker--having broken up a political meeting--having been
sued for breach-of-promise by a barmaid . . ."

Mrs. Crocker
 preserved her well-bred calm, but she was shaken.
The episodes to which her sister had alluded were ancient
history, horrors of the long-dead past, but it seemed that
they still lived in print.

There and
 then she registered the resolve to talk to her step-son James
when she got hold of him in such a manner as would scourge the
offending Adam out of him for once and for all.

 "And not only that," continued Mrs. Pett. "That would be bad enough
in itself, but somehow the papers have discovered that I am
the boy's aunt. Two weeks ago they printed my photograph with
one of these articles. I suppose they will always do it now. That
is why I have come to you. It must stop.

And the only
 way it can be made to stop is by taking your step-son away
from London where he is running wild. Peter has most kindly
consented to give the boy a position in his office.

It is very
 good of him, for the boy cannot in the nature of things be of
any use for a very long time, but we have talked it over and it
seems the only course. I have come this morning to ask you to let
us take James Crocker back to America with us and keep him out of
mischief by giving him honest work.

What do you
 say?"
Mrs. Crocker raised her eyebrows.

"What do you expect me to say? It is utterly preposterous. I have
never heard anything so supremely absurd in my life."

"You refuse?"
 
"Of course I refuse."
"I think you are extremely foolish."
"Indeed!"
Mr.

Pett cowed
 in his chair. He was feeling rather like a nervous and
peace-loving patron of a wild western saloon who observes
two cowboys reach for their hip-pockets.

Neither his
wife nor his sister-in-law paid any attention to him.

The concluding
 exercises of a duel of the eyes was in progress between
them. After some silent, age-long moments, Mrs. Crocker laughed
a light laugh.

"Most extraordinary!" she murmured.

 Mrs. Pett was in no mood for Anglicisms.

"You know perfectly well, Eugenia," she said heatedly, "that
James Crocker is being ruined here.

For his sake,
 if not for mine--"
Mrs. Crocker laughed another light laugh, one of those offensive
rippling things which cause so much annoyance.

"Don't be so
 ridiculous, Nesta! Ruined! Really! It is quite true that, a long
while ago, when he was much younger and not quite used to the ways
of London Society, James was a little wild, but all that sort of
thing is over now.

He knows"--she
 paused, setting herself as it were for the punch--"he knows
that at any moment the government may decide to give his father
a Peerage . . ."
The blow went home. A quite audible gasp escaped her stricken
sister.

 "What!"
Mrs. Crocker placed two ringed fingers before her mouth in
order not to hide a languid yawn.

"Yes. Didn't
 you know? But of course you live so out of the world.
Oh yes, it is extremely probable that Mr. Crocker's name will
appear in the next Honours List. He is very highly thought of by
the Powers.

So naturally
 James is quite aware that he must behave in a suitable manner.
He is a dear boy! He was handicapped at first by getting into
the wrong set, but now his closest friend is Lord Percy Whipple,
the second son of the Duke of Devizes, who is one of the most
eminent men in the kingdom and a personal friend of the
Premier."

Mrs. Pett was
 in bad shape under this rain of titles, but she rallied herself
to reply in kind.

"Indeed?" she said. "I should like to meet him. I have no
doubt he knows our great friend, Lord Wisbeach."
Mrs. Crocker was a little taken aback.

She had not
 supposed that her sister had even this small shot in her
locker.

"Do you know Lord Wisbeach?" she said.

"Oh yes,"
 replied Mrs. Pett, beginning to feel a little better.
"We have been seeing him every day. He always says that he
looks on my house as quite a home. He knows so few people in
New York.

It has been a
 great comfort to him, I think, knowing us."
Mrs. Crocker had had time now to recover her poise.

"Poor dear Wizzy!" she said languidly.

Mrs. Pett started.

 "What!"
"I suppose he is still the same dear, stupid, shiftless fellow?

He left here with the intention of travelling round the world,
and he has stopped in New York! How like him!"
"Do you know Lord Wisbeach?"

demanded Mrs.
 Pett.

Mrs. Crocker raised her eyebrows.

 "Know him? Why, I suppose, after Lord Percy Whipple, he is James'
most intimate friend!"
Mrs. Pett rose. She was dignified even in defeat.

She collected
 Ogden and Mr. Pett with an eye which even Ogden could see was
not to be trifled with. She uttered no word.

"Must you really go?"

said Mrs.
 Crocker. "It was sweet of you to bother to come all the way
from America like this. So strange to meet any one from America
nowadays. Most extraordinary!"
The _cortege_ left the room in silence. Mrs. Crocker had touched
the bell, but the mourners did not wait for the arrival of Bayliss.

They were in
 no mood for the formalities of polite Society. They wanted to be
elsewhere, and they wanted to be there quick. The front door
had closed behind them before the butler reached the
morning-room.
"Bayliss," said Mrs. Crocker with happy, shining face, "send for
the car to come round at once." 
"Very good, madam."
"Is Mr. James up yet?" 
"I believe not, madam."
Mrs. Crocker went upstairs to her room. If Bayliss had not been
within earshot, she would probably have sung a bar or two. Her
amiability extended even to her step-son, though she had not altered
her intention of speaking eloquently to him on certain matters when
she could get hold of him. That, however, could wait. For the moment,
she felt in vein for a gentle drive in the Park.
A few minutes after she had disappeared, there was a sound of slow
footsteps on the stairs, and a young man came down into the hall.
Bayliss, who had finished telephoning to the garage for Mrs. Crocker's
limousine and was about to descend to those lower depths where he
had his being, turned, and a grave smile of welcome played over his
face.

"Good morning, Mr. James," he said.

CHAPTER IV
JIMMY'S DISTURBING NEWS
Jimmy Crocker was a tall and well-knit young man who later on in
the day would no doubt be at least passably good-looking. At the
moment an unbecoming pallor marred his face, and beneath his eyes
were marks that suggested that he had slept little and ill. He stood
at the foot of the stairs, yawning cavernously.
"Bayliss," he said, "have you been painting yourself yellow?"
"No, sir."
"Strange! Your face looks a bright gamboge to me, and your outlines
wobble. Bayliss, never mix your drinks. I say this to you as a
friend. Is there any one in the morning-room?"
"No, Mr. James."
"Speak softly, Bayliss, for I am not well. I am conscious of a
strange weakness. Lead me to the morning-room, then, and lay me
gently on a sofa. These are the times that try men's souls."
The sun was now shining strongly through the windows of the
morning-room. Bayliss lowered the shades. Jimmy Crocker sank onto
the sofa, and closed his eyes.

"Bayliss." 
"Sir?"
"A conviction is stealing over me that I am about to expire."
"Shall I bring you a little breakfast, Mr. James?"
A strong shudder shook Jimmy.
"Don't be flippant, Bayliss," he protested. "Try to cure yourself
of this passion for being funny at the wrong time. Your comedy is
good, but tact is a finer quality than humour. Perhaps you think I
have forgotten that morning when I was feeling just as I do to-day
and you came to my bedside and asked me if I would like a nice
rasher of ham. I haven't and I never shall. You may bring me a
brandy-and-soda. Not a large one. A couple of bath-tubs full will
be enough." 
"Very good, Mr. James."
"And now leave me, Bayliss, for I would be alone. I have to make a
series of difficult and exhaustive tests to ascertain whether I am
still alive."
When the butler had gone, Jimmy adjusted the cushions, closed his
eyes, and remained for a space in a state of coma. He was trying,
as well as an exceedingly severe headache would permit, to recall
the salient events of the previous night. At present his memories
refused to solidify. They poured about in his brain in a fluid and
formless condition, exasperating to one who sought for hard facts.
It seemed strange to Jimmy that the shadowy and inchoate vision of
a combat, a fight, a brawl of some kind persisted in flitting about
in the recesses of his mind, always just far enough away to elude
capture. The absurdity of the thing annoyed him. A man has either
indulged in a fight overnight or he has not indulged in a fight
overnight. There can be no middle course. That he should be uncertain
on the point was ridiculous. Yet, try as he would, he could not be
sure. There were moments when he seemed on the very verge of settling
the matter, and then some invisible person would meanly insert a
red-hot corkscrew in the top of his head and begin to twist it, and
this would interfere with calm thought. He was still in a state of
uncertainty when Bayliss returned, bearing healing liquids on a
tray.

"Shall I set it beside you, sir?"
Jimmy opened one eye.
"Indubitably. No mean word, that, Bayliss, for the morning after.
Try it yourself next time. Bayliss, who let me in this morning?"
"Let you in, sir?"
"Precisely. I was out and now I am in. Obviously I must have passed
the front door somehow. This is logic."
"I fancy you let yourself in, Mr. James, with your key."Mosiah 10:19
 19 And now I, Zeniff, after having told all these things unto my
people concerning the Lamanites, I did stimulate them to go to
battle with their might, putting their trust in the Lord;
therefore, we did contend with them, face to face.

Mosiah 10:20
 20 And it came to pass that we did drive them again out of our
land; and we slew them with a great slaughter, even so many that
we did not number them.

Mosiah 10:21
 21 And it came to pass that we returned again to our own land,
and my people again began to tend their flocks, and to till their
ground.

Mosiah 10:22
 22 And now I, being old, did confer the kingdom upon one of my
sons; therefore, I say no more. And may the Lord bless my
people. Amen.

Mosiah 11
Chapter 11

Mosiah 11:1
 1 And now it came to pass that Zeniff conferred the kingdom upon
Noah, one of his sons; therefore Noah began to reign in his
stead; and he did not walk in the ways of his father.

Mosiah 11:2
 2 For behold, he did not keep the commandments of God, but he
did walk after the desires of his own heart. T., consisting
chiefly of tribal signs observed by him among the Sac and Fox,
Kickapoos, &c., during the early part of the year 1880.

 _DAKOTAN._
_Absaroka_ I. A list of signs obtained from DE-E'-KI-TCIS (Pretty
Eagle), É-TCI-DI-KA-H[)A]TC'-KI (Long Elk), and PE-RI'-TCI-KA'-DI-A
(Old Crow), members of a delegation of Absaroka or Crow Indians
from Montana Territory, who visited Washington during the months
of April and May, 1880.

_Dakota_ I.
 A comprehensive list, arranged with great care and skill, from
Dr. CHARLES E. MCCHESNEY, acting assistant surgeon, United States
Army, of signs collected among the Dakotas (Sioux) near Fort
Bennett, Dakota, during the year 1880.

Dr. McChesney
 requests that recognition should be made of the valuable
assistance rendered to him by Mr.
WILLIAM FIELDEN, the interpreter at Cheyenne Agency, Dakota
Territory.

_Dakota_ II.
 A short list from Dr. BLAIR D. TAYLOR, assistant surgeon,
United States Army, from recollection of signs observed among
the Sioux during his late service in the region inhabited
by that tribe.

 _Dakota_ III. A special contribution from Capt. A.W. CORLISS,
Eighth United States Infantry, of signs observed by him
during his late service among the Sioux.

 _Dakota_ IV. A copious contribution with diagrams from Dr.
WILLIAM H.
CORBUSIER, assistant surgeon, United States Army, of signs
obtained from the Ogalala Sioux at Pine Ridge Agency, Dakota
Territory, during 1879-'80.

_Dakota_ V.
 A report of Dr. W.J. HOFFMAN, from observations among the Teton
Dakotas while acting assistant surgeon, United States Army, and
stationed at Grand River Agency, Dakota, during 1872-'73.

_Dakota_ VI.
 A list of signs obtained from PE-ZHI' (Grass), chief of the
Blackfoot Sioux; NA-ZU'-LA-TA[n]-KA (Big Head), chief of the
Upper Yanktonais; and CE-TA[n]-KI[n]-YA[n] (Thunder Hawk), chief
of the Uncpapas, Teton Dakotas, located at Standing Rock, Dakota
Territory, while at Washington in June, 1880.

_Dakota_ VII.
 A list of signs obtained from SHUN-KU LU-TA (Red Dog), an
Ogalala chief from the Red Cloud Agency, who visited Washington
in company with a large delegation of Dakotas in June, 1880.

_Dakota_ VIII.

A special list
 obtained from TA-TA[n]KA WA-KA[n] (Medicine Bull), and other
members of a delegation of Lower Brulé
Dakotas, while at Washington during the winter of 1880-'81.

_Hidatsa_ I.

A list of signs
 obtained from TCE-CAQ'-A-DAQ-A-QIC (Lean Wolf), chief of the
Hidatsa, located at Fort Berthold, Dakota Territory, while at
Washington with a delegation of Sioux Indians, in June,
1880.

_Mandan and Hidatsa_ I.

A valuable and
 illustrated contribution from Dr. WASHINGTON MATTHEWS, assistant
surgeon, United States Army, author of _Ethnography and Philology
of the Hidatsa Indians, Washington_, 1877, &c., lately prepared
from his notes and recollections of signs observed during his long
service among the Mandan and Hidatsa Indians of the Upper Missouri.

_Omaha_ I. A
 special list from Rev. J. OWEN DORSEY, lately missionary at Omaha
Agency, Nebraska, from observations made by him at that agency
in 1880.

 _Oto_ I. An elaborate list, with diagrams, from Dr. W.G. BOTELER,
United States Indian service, collected from the Otos at the Oto
Agency, Nebraska, during 1879-'80.

 _Oto and Missouri_ I. A similar contribution by the same authority
respecting the signs of the Otos and Missouris, of Nebraska,
collected during the winter of 1879-'80, in the description of
many of which he was joined by Miss KATIE BARNES.

_Ponka_ I. A
 short list from Rev. J. OWEN DORSEY, obtained by him in 1880
from the Ponkas in Nebraska.

_Ponka_ II. A
 short list obtained at Washington from KHI-DHA-SK[)A], (White
Eagle), and other chiefs, a delegation from Kansas in January,
1881.

_IROQUOIAN._

_Iroquois_ I.
 A list of signs contributed by the Hon. HORATIO HALE, author
of "Philology" of the Wilkes Exploring Expedition, &c., now
residing at Clinton, Ontario, Canada, obtained in June, 1880,
from SAKAYENKWARATON (Disappearing Mist), familiarly known as
John Smoke Johnson, chief of the Canadian division of the Six
Nations, or Iroquois proper, now a very aged man, residing
at Brantford, Canada.

 _Wyandot_ I. A list of signs from HEN'-TO (Gray Eyes), chief
of the Wyandots, who visited Washington during the spring of 1880,
in the interest of that tribe, now dwelling in Indian
Territory.

 
_KAIOWAN._
_Kaiowa_ I.

A list of signs
 from SITTIMGEA (Stumbling Bear), a Kaiowa chief from Indian
Territory, who visited Washington in June, 1880.

_KUTINEAN._
 
_Kutine_ I. A letter from J.W. POWELL, Esq., Indian superintendent,
British Columbia, relating to his observations among the Kutine
and others.

_PANIAN._
 _Arikara_ I. A list of signs obtained from KUA-NUQ'-KNA-UI'-UQ
(Son of the Star), chief of the Arikaras, residing at Fort
Berthold, Dakota Territory, while at Washington with a delegation
of Indians, in June, 1880.

 _Pani_ I. A short list obtained from "ESAU," a Pani Indian, acting
as interpreter to the Ponka delegation at Washington, in January,
1881.

 
_PIMAN._
_Pima and Papago_ I. A special contribution obtained from ANTONITO,
son of the chief of the Pima Indians in Arizona Territory, while
on a visit to Washington in February, 1881.

_SAHAPTIAN._
 
_Sahaptian_ I. A list contributed by Rev. G.L. DEFFENBAUGH, of
Lapwai, Idaho, giving signs obtained at Kamiah, Idaho, chiefly
from FELIX, chief of the Nez Percés, and used by the Sahaptin or
Nez Percés.

_SHOSHONIAN._
 
_Comanche_ I. Notes from Rev. A.J. HOLT, Denison, Texas,
respecting, the Comanche signs, obtained at Anadarko,
Indian Territory.

_Comanche_
II.

Information
 obtained at Washington, in February, 1880, from Maj. J.M.
HAWORTH, Indian inspector, relating to signs used by the Comanches
of Indian Territory.

_Comanche_ III. A list of signs obtained from KOBI (Wild
Horse), a Comanche chief from Indian Territory, who visited
Washington in June, 1880.

_Pai-Ute_ I.
 Information obtained at Washington from NA'TOI, a Pai-Ute
chief, who was one of a delegation of that tribe to Washington
in January, 1880.

_Shoshoni and Banak_ I. A list of signs obtained from TENDOY
(The Climber), TISIDIMIT, PETE, and WI'AGAT, members of a
delegation of Shoshoni and Banak chiefs from Idaho, who visited
Washington during the months of April and May, 1880.

_Ute_ I. A
 list of signs obtained from ALEJANDRE, GA-LO-TE, AUGUSTIN, and
other chiefs, members of a delegation of Ute Indians of Colorado,
who visited Washington during the early months of the year 1880.

_TINNEAN._
 
_Apache_ I. A list of signs obtained from HUERITO (Little Blonde),
AGUSTIN VIJEL, and SANTIAGO LARGO (James Long), members of a
delegation of Apache chief from Tierra Amarilla, New Mexico, who
were brought to Washington in the months of March and April, 1880.

_Apache_ II.
 A list of signs obtained from NA'-KA'-NA'-NI-TEN (White Man), an
Apache chief from Indian Territory, who visited Washington in June,
1880.

_Apache_ III.
 A large collection made during the summer of 1880, by Dr.
FRANCIS H. ATKINS, acting assistant surgeon, United States
Army, from the Mescalero Apaches, near South Fork, N. Mex.

_Kutchin_ I.
 A communication, received in 1881, from Mr. IVAN PETROFF,
special agent United States census, transmitting a dialogue, taken
down by himself in 1866, between the Kenaitze Indians on the lower
Kinnik River, in Alaska, and some natives of the interior who called
themselves _Tennanah_ or _Mountain-River-Men_, belonging to the
Tinne Kutchin tribe.

_WICHITAN._
 
_Wichita_ I. A list of signs from Rev. A.J. HOLT, missionary,
obtained from KIN-CH[=E]-[)E]SS (Spectacles), medicine-man of
the Wichitas, at the Wichita Agency, Indian Territory, in 1879.

_Wichita_ II. A list of signs from TSODIÁKO (Shaved Head
Boy), a Wichita chief, from Indian Territory, who visited Washington
in June, 1880.

_ZU[=N]IAN._
 
_Zu[=n]i_ I. Some preliminary notes received in 1880 from Rev.
TAYLOR F. EALY, missionary among the Zu[=n]i, upon the
signs of that body of Indians.

 _FOREIGN CORRESPONDENCE._
Valuable contributions have been received in 1880-'81 and collated
under their proper headings, from the following correspondents in
distant countries:

Rev.

HERMAN N.
 BARNUM, D.D., of Harpoot, Turkey, furnishes a list of signs in
common use among Turks, Armenians, and Koords in that
region.

 Miss L.O. LLOYD, Charleton House, Mowbray, near Cape Town,
Africa, gives information concerning the gestures and signals of
the Bushmen.

Rev.

LORIMER FISON,
 Navuloa, Fiji, notes in letters comparisons between the signs
and gestures of the Fijians and those of the North American Indians.
As this paper is passing through the press a _Collection_ is
returned with annotations by him and also by Mr.

WALTER CAREW,
 Commissioner for the Interior of Navitilevu. The last named
gentleman describes some signs of a Fijian uninstructed deaf-mute.

Mr. F.A. VON
 RUPPRECHT, Kepahiang, Sumatra, supplies information and comparisons
respecting the signs and signals of the Redjangs and Lelongs,
showing agreement with some Dakota, Comanche, and Ojibwa signs.

Letters from
 Mr. A.W. HOWITT, F.G.S., Sale, Gippsland, Victoria, upon Australian
signs, and from Rev.

JAMES SIBREE,
 jr., F.R.G.S., relative to the tribes of Madagascar, are gratefully
acknowledged.

Many other correspondents are now, according to their kind promises,
engaged in researches, the result of which have not yet been
received.

The organization
 of those researches in India and Ceylon has been accomplished
through the active interest of Col. H.S. OLCOTT, U.S.
Commissioner, Breach Candy, Bombay

.
 
* * * * *
Grateful acknowledgment must be made to Prof. E.A. FAY, of the
National Deaf Mute College, through whose special attention
a large number of the natural signs of deaf-mutes, remembered by
them as having been invented and used before instruction in
conventional signs, indeed before attending any school, was obtained.

The gentlemen
 who made the contributions in their own MS., and without
prompting, are as follows: Messrs. M. BALLARD, R.M. ZIEGLER, J.
CROSS, PHILIP J.

HASENSTAB, and
 LARS LARSON. Their names respectively follow their several
descriptions. Mr. BALLARD is an instructor in the college, and
the other gentlemen were pupils during the session of 1880.

Similar thanks
 are due to Mr. J.L. NOYES, superintendent of the Minnesota
Institution for the education of the Deaf and Dumb, Faribault,
Minn., and to Messrs.

GEORGE WING
 and D.H. CARROLL, teachers in that institution, for
annotations and suggestions respecting deaf-mute signs. The
notes made by the last named gentlemen are followed by their
respective names in reference

.
 
* * * * *
Special thanks are also rendered to Prof.

JAMES D. BUTLER,
 of Madison, Wis., for contribution of Italian gesture-signs,
noted by him in 1843, and for many useful suggestions.

* * * * *
 Other Italian signs are quoted from the Essay on Italian gesticulations
by his eminence Cardinal WISEMAN, in his _Essays on Various
Subjects, London_, 1855, Vol. III, pp. 533-555.

Many Neapolitan
 signs are extracted from the illustrated work of the canon ANDREA
DE JORIO, _La Mimica degli Antichi investigata nel gestire
Napoletano_, _Napoli_, 1832

.
 

* * * * *
 A small collection of Australian signs has been extracted from
R.
BROUGH SMYTH's _The Aborigines of Victoria_, _London_, 1878.

EXTRACTS FROM DICTIONARY.

In the printed
 but unpublished _Collection_ before mentioned, page 396,
nearly three hundred quarto pages are devoted to descriptions of
signs arranged in alphabetic order.

A few of these
 are now presented to show the method adopted. They have been
selected either as having connection with the foregoing discussion
of the subject or because for some of them pictorial illustrations
had already been prepared.

There is
 propriety in giving all the signs under some of the title words
when descriptions of only one or two of those signs have been used
in the foregoing remarks.

This prevents
 an erroneous inference that the signs so mentioned are
the only or the common or the generally prevailing signs
for the idea conveyed. This course has involved some slight
repetition both of descriptions and of illustrations, as it seemed
desirable that they should appear to the eye in the several connections
indicated.

The extracts
 are rendered less interesting and instructive by the necessity
for omitting cross-references which would show contrasts and
similarities for comparison, but would require a much larger part
of the collected material to be now printed than is consistent with
the present plan.

Instead of
 occupying in this manner the remaining space allotted to this
paper, it was decided to present, as of more general interest, the
descriptions of TRIBAL SIGNS, PROPER NAMES, PHRASES, DIALOGUES,
NARRATIVES, DISCOURSES, and SIGNALS, which follow the EXTRACTS.

It will be
 observed that in the following extracts there has been an
attempt to supply the conceptions or origin of the several signs.
When the supposed conception, obtained through collaborators, is
printed before the authority given as reference, it is understood
to have been gathered from an Indian as being his own conception,
and is therefore of special value.

When printed
 after the authority and within quotation marks it is in the
words of the collaborator as offered by himself. When printed
after the authority and without quotation marks it is suggested
by this writer.

The letters
of the alphabet within parentheses, used in some of the descriptions,
refer to the corresponding figures in TYPES OF HAND POSITIONS at
the end of this paper.

When such
 letters are followed by Arabic numerals it is meant that there
is some deviation, which is described in the text, from that type
of hand position corresponding with the letter which is still used
as the basis of description.

Example: In
 the first description from (_Sahaptin_ I) for _bad_, _mean_,
page 412, (G) refers to the type of hand position so marked, being
identically that position, but in the following reference, to (R
1), the type referred to by the letter R has the palm to the front
instead of backward, being in all other respects the position which
it is desired to illustrate; (R), therefore, taken in connection
with the description, indicates that change, and that alone.

This mode of
 reference is farther explained in the EXAMPLES at the end of
this paper.

References to another title word as explaining a part of a
description or to supply any other portions of a compound sign
will always be understood as being made to the description by the
same authority of the sign under the other title-word.

Example: In
 the second description by (_Sahaptin_ I) for _bad, mean_, above
mentioned, the reference to GOOD is to that sign for _good_ which
is contributed by Rev. G.L. DEFFENBAUGH, and is referred to as
(_Sahaptin_ I.).

ANTELOPE.
 
Pass the open right hand outward from the small of the back. (_Wied_.)
This, as explained by Indians lately examined, indicates
the lighter coloration upon the animal's flanks. A Ute who could
speak Spanish accompanied it with the word _blanco_, as if recognizing
that it required explanation.

With the index
 only extended, hold the hand eighteen or twenty inches
transversely in front of the head, index pointing to the left,
then rub the sides of the body with the flat hands.

(_Cheyenne_
 IV; _Dakota_ VI.) "The latter sign refers to the white sides
of the animal; the former could not be explained."
[Illustration: Fig. 234.]

[Illustration:
 Fig. 235.]
Extend and separate the forefingers and thumbs, nearly close all
the other fingers, and place the hands with backs outward above and
a little in front of the ears, about four inches from the head, and
shake them back and forth several times.

Antelope's
 horns. This is an Arapaho sign. (_Dakota_ I, II, IV.)
Close the right hand, leaving the end of the index in the form of
a hook, and the thumb extended as in Fig. 234; then wave the hand
quickly back and forth a short distance, opposite the temple.

(_Hidatsa_ I;
 _Arikara_ I.) "Represents the pronged horn of the animal. This
is the sign ordinarily used, but it was noticed that in conversing
with one of the Dakotas the sign of the latter (_Dakota_ VI) was
used several times, to be more readily understood."

Place both
 hands, fingers fully extended and spread, close to the sides of
the head. _Wied's_ sign was readily understood as signifying the
white flanks. (_Apache_ I.)
In connection with the above signs Fig. 235 is presented, which was
drawn by Running Antelope, an Uncpapa Dakota, as his personal totem,
or proper name.

BAD, MEAN.
 
Make the sign for GOOD and then that of NOT. (_Long._)
Close the hand, and open it whilst passing it downward. (_Wied._)
This is the same as my description; but differently worded, possibly
notes a less forcible form.

I say, however,
 that the arm is "extended." The precise direction in which
the hand is moved is not, I think, essential. (_Matthews._) This
sign is invariably accompanied by a countenance expressive of
contempt. (_F. Jacker._).

 Scatter the dexter fingers outward, as if spurting away water
from them. (_Burton_

.)
 (1) Right hand partially elevated, fingers closed, thumb clasping
the tips; (2) sudden motion downward and outward accompanied
by equally sudden opening of fingers and snapping of the fingers
from the thumb.

(_Cheyenne_
 II.)

Right hand
 closed back to front is moved forcibly downward and forward, the
fingers being violently opened at instant of stopping the motion
of hand.

(_Cheyenne_
 IV.)
Right hand closed (B) carried forward in front of the body toward
the right and downward, during which the hand is opened,
fingers downward, as if dropping out the contents.

(_Dakota_ I.)
 "Not worth keeping."
Half close the fingers of the right hand, hook the thumb over the
fore and middle fingers; move the hand, back upward, a foot or so
toward the object referred to, and suddenly let the fingers fly open.

Scattered
 around, therefore bad. An Arapaho sign. (_Dakota_ IV.)
Close the fingers of the right hand, resting the tips against the
thumb, then throw the hand downward and outward toward the right
to arm's length, and spring open the fingers.

Fig. 236.
 (_Dakota_ VI, VII, VIII; _Ponka_ II; _Pani_ I.)

[Illustration:
 Fig. 236.]

The sign most
 commonly used for this idea is made by the hand being closed near
the breast, with the back toward the breast, then as the arm is
suddenly extended the hand is opened and the fingers separated from
each other.

(_Mandan and
 Hidatsa_ I.)
Hands open, palms turned in; move one hand toward, and
the other from, the body; then vice versâ. (_Omaha_ I.)
Throw the clinched right hand forward, downward, and outward, and
when near at arm's length, suddenly snap the fingers from the thumb
as if sprinkling water.

(_Wyandot_ I.)
 "To throw away contemptuously; not worth keeping."
Raise hand in front of breast, fingers hooked, thumb resting against
second finger, palm downward (G), then with a nervous movement
throw the hand downward to the right and a little behind the body,
with an expression of disgust on the face.

During motion
 of hand the fingers are suddenly extended as though throwing
something out of the hand, and in final position the fingers
and thumb are straight and separated, palm backward (R 1).

(_Sahaptin_
 I.) "Away with it!"
Another: Same motion of arm and hand as in _good_. But in the
first position fingers are closed, and as the hand moves to the
right they are thrown open, until in final position all are extended
as in final for _good_.

(_Sahaptin_
 I.)
Extend the right hand, palm downward, and move it in a
horizontal line from the body, then suddenly turn the hand
over as if throwing water from the back of it or the index.
(_Comanche_ I.)

"Good, no."
 
Pass the flat right hand, interruptedly, downward and backward past
the right side. (_Pima and Papago_ I.) "Putting aside."
_Deaf-mute natural signs_:

 Hold forward the closed hand with the little finger up,
at the same time nodding the head. (_Ballard_.)
Draw the tongue out a little and then shake the head with a
displeased look.

(_Larson_.)
 
Use the sign for _handsome_ (see first part of the sign for GOOD),
at the same time shake the head as if to say "no."

(_Ziegler_.)
 
_Deaf-mute signs_:

The hand closed (except the little finger which is extended and
raised), and held forward with the fingers to the front is the
sign for _bad_ illustrated in the Report for 1879 of the Ohio
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.

This sign is
 used among the deaf-mutes in England.

BEAR, ANIMAL.

Pass the hand
 before the face to mean ugliness, at the same time grinning
and extending the fingers like claws. (_Burton_.)
Hands in front of and about eight inches above the elbows, fingers
slightly bent and open, thumbs and palms to the front to represent
claws,--or bear in standing position.

Sometimes
 accompanied by clawing motion. (_Creel_.)
(1) Middle and third finger of right hand clasped down by the
thumb, forefinger and little finger extended, crooked downward;
(2) the motion of scratching made in the air.

(_Cheyenne_
II.)

Fig. 237.
 
[Illustration: Fig. 237.]

Mosiah 14:6
 6 All we, like sheep, have gone astray; we have turned every one
to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquities of
us all.

Mosiah 14:7
 7 He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his
mouth; he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep
before her shearers is dumb so he opened not his mouth.

Mosiah 14:8
 8 He was taken from prison and from judgment; and who shall
declare his generation? For he was cut off out of the land of
the living; for the transgressions of my people was he stricken.

Mosiah 14:9
 9 And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in
his death; because he had done no evil, neither was any deceit in
his mouth.

Mosiah 14:10
 10 Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him; he hath put him to
grief; when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin he shall
see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the
Lord shall prosper in his hand.

Mosiah 14:11
 11 He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied;
by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he
shall bear their iniquities.

Mosiah 14:12
 12 Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he
shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured
out his soul unto death; and he was numbered with the
transgressors; and he bore the sins of many, and made
intercession for the transgressors.

Mosiah 15
Chapter 15

Mosiah 15:1
 1 And now Abinadi said unto them: I would that ye should
understand that God himself shall come down among the children of
men, and shall redeem his people.

Mosiah 15:2
 2 And because he dwelleth in flesh he shall be called the Son of
God, and having subjected the flesh to the will of the Father,
being the Father and the Son--

Mosiah 15:3
 3 The Father, because he was conceived by the power of God; and
the Son, because of the flesh; thus becoming the Father and Son--

Mosiah 15:4
 4 And they are one God, yea, the very Eternal Father of heaven
and of earth.

Mosiah 15:5
 5 And thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, or the Son
to the Father, being one God, suffereth temptation, and yieldeth
not to the temptation, but suffereth himself to be mocked, and
scourged, and cast out, and disowned by his people.

Mosiah 15:6
 6 And after all this, after working many mighty miracles among
the children of men, he shall be led, yea, even as Isaiah said,
as a sheep before the shearer is dumb, so he opened not his
mouth.

Mosiah 15:7
 7 Yea, even so he shall be led, crucified, and slain, the flesh
becoming subject even unto death, the will of the Son being
swallowed up in the will of the Father.

Mosiah 15:8
 8 And thus God breaketh the bands of death, having gained the
victory over death; giving the Son power to make intercession for
the children of men--

Mosiah 15:9
 9 Having ascended into heaven, having the bowels of mercy; being
filled with compassion towards the children of men; standing
betwixt them and justice; having broken the bands of death, taken
upon himself their iniquity and their transgressions, having
redeemed them, and satisfied the demands of justice.

Mosiah 15:10
 10 And now I say unto you, who shall declare his generation?
Behold, I say unto you, that when his soul has been made an
offering for sin he shall see his seed. And now what say ye?
And who shall be his seed?

Mosiah 15:11
 11 Behold I say unto you, that whosoever has heard the words of
the prophets, yea, all the holy prophets who have prophesied
concerning the coming of the Lord--I say unto you, that all those
who have hearkened unto their words, and believed that the Lord
would redeem his people, and have looked forward to that day for
a remission of their sins, I say unto you, that these are his
seed, or they are heirs of the kingdom of God.

Mosiah 15:12
 12 For these are they whose sins he has borne; these are they
for whom he has died, to redeem them from their transgressions.
And now, are they not his seed?

The Belgian
 liberals had always felt drawn towards France rather than Holland,
and several of the more influential among them were in Paris during
the days of July. Through their close intercourse with their
friends in Brussels the news of all that had occurred spread
rapidly, and was eagerly discussed.

Probably at
 this time few contemplated the complete separation of Belgium
from Holland, but rather looked to the northern and southern
provinces becoming administratively autonomous under the same crown.

This indeed
 appeared to be the only practical solution of the _impasse_ which
had been reached.

Even had the
 king met the complaints of the Belgians by large concessions,
had he dismissed Van Maanen, removed Libri-Bagnano from the
editorship of the _National_, and created a responsible ministry--which
he had no intention of doing--he could not have granted the demand
for a representation of the south in the Second Chamber proportionate
to the population.

For this would
 have meant that the position of Holland would have henceforth
been subordinate to that of Belgium; and to this the Dutch,
proud of their history and achievements, would never have submitted.

It had been
 proved that amalgamation was impossible, but the king
personally was popular with those large sections of the Belgian
mercantile and industrial population whose prosperity was so
largely due to the royal care and paternal interest; and, had
he consented to the setting-up of a separate administration at
Brussels, he might by a conciliatory attitude have retained the
loyalty of his Belgian subjects.

He did none
 of these things; but, when in August, he and his two sons paid a
visit to Brussels at a time when the town was celebrating with
festivities the holding of an exhibition of national
industry, he was well received and was probably quite unaware of
the imminence of the storm that was brewing.

It had been
 intended to close the exhibition by a grand display of fireworks
on the evening of August 23, and to have a general illumination
on the king's birthday (August 24).

But the king
 had hurried back to the Hague to keep his birthday, and during
the preceding days there were abundant signs of a spirit of
revolutionary ferment. Inscriptions were found on blank walls--_Down
with Van Maanen; Death to the Dutch; Down with Libri-Bagnano and
the National_; and, more ominous still, leaflets were distributed
containing the words _le 23 Août, feu d'artifice; le 24 Août,
anniversaïre du Roi; le 25 Août, révolution._
In consequence of these indications of subterranean unrest, which
were well known to Baron van der Fosse, the civil governor of
Brabant, and to M.

Kuyff, the
 head of the city police, the municipal authorities weakly decided
on the ground of unfavourable weather to postpone the fireworks
and the illumination. The evening of the 23rd, as it
turned out, was exceedingly fine.

At the same
 time the authorities permitted, on the evening of the 25th, the
first performance of an opera by Scribe and Auber, entitled _La
Muette de Portici_, which had been previously proscribed.

The hero,
 Masaniello, headed a revolt at Naples in 1648 against foreign
(Spanish) rule. The piece was full of patriotic, revolutionary
songs likely to arouse popular passion.

The evening of the performance arrived, and the theatre was
crowded.

The excitement
 of the audience grew as the play proceeded; and the thunders of
applause were taken up by the throng which had gathered outside.

Finally the
 spectators rushed out with loud cries of vengeance against
Libri-Bagnano and Van Maanen, in which the mob eagerly joined.
Brussels was at that time a chosen shelter of political refugees,
ready for any excesses; and a terrible riot ensued. The
house of Van Maanen and the offices of the _National_ were
attacked, pillaged and burnt. The city was given over to wild
confusion and anarchy; and many of the mob secured arms by the
plunder of the gun-smiths' shops.

Meanwhile the
 military authorities delayed action. Several small patrols
were surrounded and compelled to surrender, while the main body
of troops, instead of attacking and dispersing the rioters, was
withdrawn and stationed in front of the royal palace.

Thus by the
 extraordinary passiveness of Lieut.-General Bylandt, the
military governor of the province, and of Major-General Wauthier,
commandant of the city, who must have been acting under secret
orders, the wild outbreak of the night began, as the next day
progressed and the troops were still inactive, to assume more of
the character of a revolution.

This was checked
 by the action of the municipal authorities and certain of the
principal inhabitants, who called together the civic-guard to
protect any further tumultuary attacks by marauders and ne'er-do-wells
on private property.

The guard were
 joined by numbers of volunteers of the better classes and,
under the command of Baron D'Hoogvoort, were distributed
in different quarters of the town, and restored order.

The French
 flags, which at first were in evidence, were replaced at the
Town Hall by the Brabant tricolor--red, yellow and black. The royal
insignia had in many places been torn down, and the Orange cockades
had disappeared; nevertheless there was at this time no symptom of
an uprising to overthrow the dynasty, only a national demand for
redress of grievances.

Meanwhile
news arrived that reinforcements from Ghent were marching upon the
city.

The notables
 however informed General Bylandt that no troops would be allowed
to enter the city without resistance; and he agreed to stop the
advance and to keep his own troops in their encampment until he
received further orders from the Hague. For this abandonment
of any attempt to re-assert the royal authority he has been generally
blamed.

There is no
 lack of evidence to show that the riot of August 25 and its
consequences were not the work of the popular leaders. The
correspondence of Gendebien with De Potter at this time, and the
tone of the Belgian press before and after the outbreak, are proofs
of this.

The _Catholique_
 of Ghent (the former organ of Barthels) for instance declared:

There is no salvation for the throne, but in an ample concession
of our rights. The essential points to be accorded are royal
inviolability and ministerial responsibility; the dismissal of Van
Maanen; liberty of education and the press; a diminution of taxation
... in short, justice and liberty in all and for all, in strict
conformity with the fundamental law.

The _Coursier
 des Pays Bos_ (the former organ of De Potter), after demanding
the dismissal of Van Maanen as the absolute condition of
pacification, adds:

 We repeat that we are neither in a state of insurrection nor
revolution; all we want is a mitigation of the grievances
we have so long endured, and some guarantees for a better
future.

In accordance
 with such sentiments an infuencial meeting on the on the 28th
at the townhall appointed a deputation of five, headed by Alexandre
de Gendebien and Felix, count de Mérode, to bear to the king a
loyal address setting forth the just grievances which had led to
the Brussels disturbances, and asking respectfully for their
removal.

The news of
 the uprising reached the king on the 27th, and he was much
affected. At a Council held at the Hague the Prince of Orange
earnestly besought his father to accept the proffered
resignation of Van Maanen, and to consider in a conciliatory spirit
the grievances of the Belgians.

But William
 refused flatly to dismiss the minister or to treat with
rebels.

He gave the
 prince, however, permission to visit Brussels, not armed with
powers to act, but merely with a mission of enquiry. He also
consented to receive the deputation from Brussels, and summoned
an extraordinary meeting of the States-General at the Hague for
September 13.

Troops were
 at once ordered to move south and to join the camp at
Vilvoorde, where the regiments sent to reinforce the Brussels
garrison had been halted. The Prince of Orange and his brother
Frederick meanwhile had left the Hague and reached Vilvoorde on
August 31.

Here Frederick
 assumed command of the troops; and Orange sent his _aide-de-camp_
to Baron D'Hoogvoort to invite him to a conference at headquarters.
The news of the gathering troops had aroused immense excitement
in the capital; and it was resolved that Hoogvoort, at the head
of a representative deputation, should go to Vilvoorde to urge the
prince to stop any advance of the troops on Brussels, as their
entrance into the town would be resisted, unless the citizens were
assured that Van Maanen was dismissed, and that the other grievances
were removed.

They invited
 Orange to come to Brussels attended only by his personal suite,
and offered to be sureties for his safety.

The prince made his entry on September 1, the streets being
lined with the civic guard. He was personally popular, but,
possessing no powers, he could effect nothing.

After three
 days of parleying he returned to the camp, and his mission was a
failure.

On the same
 day when Orange entered Brussels the deputation of five was
received by King William at the Hague.

His reply to
 their representations was that by the Fundamental Law he had
the right to choose his ministers, that the principle of ministerial
responsibility was contrary to the Constitution, and that he would
not dismiss Van Maanen or deal with any alleged grievances with a
pistol at his head.

William,
however, despite his uncompromising words, did actually accept the
resignation of Van Maanen (September 3); but when the Prince of
Orange, returning from his experiences at Brussels, urged the
necessity of an administrative separation of north and south, and
offered to return to the Belgian capital if armed with full authority
to carry it out, his offer was declined.

The king would
 only consent to bring the matter to the consideration of the
States-General, which was to meet on the 13th. Instead of taking
any immediate action he issued a proclamation, which in no way
faced the exigencies of the situation, and was no sooner posted on
the walls at Brussels than it was torn down and trampled underfoot.

It is only
 just to say that the king had behind him the unanimous support
of the Dutch people, especially the commercial classes. To
them separation was far preferable to admitting the
Belgians to that predominant share of the representation which
they claimed on the ground of their larger population.

Meanwhile at
 Brussels, owing to the inaction of the government, matters
were moving fast. The spirit of revolt had spread to other
towns, principally in the Walloon provinces.

Liège and
 Louvain were the first to move. Charles Rogier, an advocate by
profession and a Frenchman by birth, was the leader of the revolt
at Liège; and such was his fiery ardour that at the head of some
400 men, whom he had supplied with arms from the armourer's warehouses,
he marched to Brussels, and arrived in that disturbed city without
encountering any Dutch force.

The example
 of Liège was followed by Jemappes, Wavre, and by the miners
of the Borinage; and Brussels was filled with a growing crowd of
men filled with a revolutionary spirit.

Their aim was
 to proclaim the independence of Belgium, and set up a provisional
government.

 For such a step even pronounced liberals like Gendebien, Van
de Weyer and Rouppe, the veteran burgomaster of the city, were not
yet prepared; and they combined with the moderates, Count Felix de
Mérode and Ferdinand Meeus, to form a Committee of Public Safety.

They were
 aided, in the maintenance of order, by the two Barons D'Hoogvoort
(Emmanuel and Joseph), the first the commander of the civic
guard, and both popular and influential, and by the municipality.
While these were still struggling to maintain their authority, the
States-General had met at the Hague on September 13.

It was opened
 by a speech from the king which announced his firm determination
to maintain law and order in the face of revolutionary violence.
He had submitted two questions to the consideration of the
States-General: (1) whether experience had shown the necessity for
a modification of the Fundamental Law; (2) whether any change should
be made in the relations between the two parts of the kingdom.

Both questions
 were, after long debate (September 29) answered in the
affirmative; but, before this took place, events at Brussels had
already rendered deliberations at the Hague futile and
useless.

 The contents of the king's speech were no sooner known in Brussels
than they were used by the revolutionary leaders to stir up
the passions of the mob by inflammatory harangues.

Rogier and
 Ducpétiaux, at the head of the Liègeois and the contingents from
the other Walloon towns, with the support of the lowest elements
of the Brussels population, demanded the dissolution of the Committee
of Public Safety and the establishment of a Provisional Government.

The members
 of the Committee and of the Municipality, sitting in permanence
at the Hotel de Ville, did their utmost to maintain order with the
strong support of Baron D'Hoogvoort and the Civic Guard.

But it was in
 vain. On the evening of September 20 an immense mob rushed the
Hotel de Ville, after disarming the Civic Guard; and Rogier and
Ducpétiaux were henceforth masters of the city.

The Committee
 of Public Safety disappeared and is heard of no more.
Hoogvoort resigned his command. On receipt of this news Prince
Frederick at Vilvoorde was ordered to advance upon the city
and compel submission.

But the passions
 of the crowd had been aroused, and the mere rumour that the Dutch
troops were moving caused the most vigorous steps to be taken to
resist _à outrance_ their penetrating into the town.

The royal
 forces, on the morning of September 23, entered the city at
three gates and advanced as far as the Park. But beyond that
point they were unable to proceed, so desperate was the resistance,
and such the hail of bullets that met them from barricades and from
the windows and roofs of the houses.

For three days
 almost without cessation the fierce contest went on, the troops
losing ground rather than gaining it. On the evening of the 26th
the prince gave orders to retreat, his troops having suffered
severely.

The effect of
 this withdrawal was to convert a street insurrection into a
national revolt.

The moderates
 now united with the liberals, and a Provisional Government was
formed, having amongst its members Rogier, Van de Weyer, Gendebien,
Emmanuel D'Hoogvoort, Felix de Mérode and Louis de Potter, who
a few days later returned triumphantly from banishment.

The Provisional
Government issued a series of decrees declaring Belgium independent,
releasing the Belgian soldiers from their allegiance, and calling
upon them to abandon the Dutch standard.

They were
 obeyed. The revolt, which had been confined mainly to the
Walloon districts, now spread rapidly over Flanders. Garrison
after garrison surrendered; and the remnants of the disorganised
Dutch forces retired upon Antwerp (October 2).

Two days later
 the Provisional Government summoned a National Congress to be
elected by all Belgian citizens of 25 years of age. The news of
these events caused great perturbation at the Hague.
The Prince of Orange, who had throughout advocated
conciliation, was now permitted by his father to go to Antwerp
(October 4) and endeavour to place himself at the head of the Belgian
movement on the basis of a grant of administrative separation, but
without severance of the dynastic bond with Holland.

King William
 meanwhile had already (October 2) appealed to the Great
Powers, signatories of the Articles of London in 1814, to intervene
and to restore order in the Belgic provinces.

The difficulties
 of the prince at Antwerp were very great, for he was hampered
throughout by his father's unwillingness to grant him full
liberty of action. He issued a proclamation, but it was coldly
received; and his attempts to negotiate with the Provisional
Government at Brussels met with no success.

Things had
 now gone too far, and any proposal to make Belgium connected
with Holland by any ties, dynastic or otherwise, was unacceptable.
The well-meaning prince returned disappointed to the Hague on
October 24.

A most
 unfortunate occurrence now took place. As General Chassé, the
Dutch commander at Antwerp, was withdrawing his troops from the
town to the citadel, attacks were made upon them by the mob, and
some lives were lost.

Chassé in
 reprisal (October 27) ordered the town to be bombarded from the
citadel and the gunboats upon the river. This impolitic act
increased throughout Belgium the feeling of hatred against the
Dutch, and made the demand for absolute independence deeper
and stronger.

 The appeal of William to the signatory Powers had immediate
effect; and representatives of Austria, Prussia, Russia and Great
Britain, to whom a representative of France was now added, met
at London on November 4.
This course of action was far from what the king expected or wished.

Their first
 step was to impose an armistice; their next to make it clear
that their intervention would be confined to negotiating a
settlement on the basis of separation. A Whig ministry in
England had (November 16) taken the place of that of
Wellington; and Lord Palmerston, the new Foreign Secretary,
was well-disposed to Belgium and found himself able to work in
accord with Talleyrand, the French plenipotentiary.

Austria and
 Russia were too much occupied with their own internal
difficulties to think of supporting the Dutch king by force of
arms; and Prussia, despite the close family connection, did not
venture to oppose the determination of the two western Powers
to work for a peaceful settlement.

While they
 were deliberating, the National Congress had met at Brussels,
and important decisions had been taken. By overwhelming
majorities (November 18) Belgium was declared to be an independent
State; and four days later, after vigorous debates, the Congress
(by 174 votes to 13) resolved that the new State should be a
constitutional monarchy and (by 161 votes to 28) that the house of
Orange-Nassau be for ever excluded from the throne.

A committee
 was appointed to draw up a constitution.

William had appealed to the Powers to maintain the Treaties of Paris
and Vienna and to support him in what he regarded, on the basis
of those treaties, as his undoubted rights; and it was with indignation
that he saw the Conference decline to admit his envoy, Falck, except
as a witness and on precisely the same terms as the representatives
of the Brussels Congress.

On December
 20 a protocol was issued by the Powers which defined their
attitude. They accepted the principle of separation and
independence, subject to arrangements being made for assuring
European peace. The Conference, however, declared that such
arrangements would not affect the rights of King William and of
the German Confederation in the Grand Duchy of Luxemburg. This
part of the protocol was as objectionable to the Belgians as the
former part was to the Dutch king.

The London
 Plenipotentiaries had in fact no choice, for they were bound by
the unfortunate clauses of the treaties of 1815, which, to
gratify Prussian ambition for cis-Rhenan territory, converted this
ancient Belgian province into a German state.

This ill-advised
 step was now to be the chief obstacle to a settlement in 1831.
The mere fact that William had throughout the period of union
always treated Luxemburg as an integral part of the southern portion
of his kingdom made its threatened severance from the Belgic provinces
a burning question.

For Luxemburgers
 had taken a considerable part in the revolt, and Luxemburg
representatives sat in the National Congress. Of these eleven
voted for the perpetual exclusion of the Orange-Nassau dynasty,
one only in its favour.

It is not
 surprising, therefore, that a strong protest was made against
the decision of the London Conference to treat the status
of Luxemburg as outside the subject of their deliberations.
The Conference, however, unmoved by this protest, proceeded in a
protocol of January 20,1831, to define the conditions of separation.

Holland was
 to retain her old boundaries of the year 1790, and Belgium
to have the remainder of the territory assigned to the kingdom
of the Netherlands in 1815.
Luxemburg was again excluded.

The Five Powers,
 moreover, declared that within these limits the new Belgian State
was to be perpetually neutral, its integrity and inviolability
being guaranteed by all and each of the Powers.

A second
 protocol (January 27) fixed the proportion of the national debt
to be borne by Belgium at sixteen parts out of thirty-one.
The sovereign of Belgium was required to give his assent to these
protocols, as a condition to being recognised by the Powers.

But the Congress
 of Brussels was in no submissive mood. They had already (January
19) resolved to proceed to the election of a king without
consulting anyone. The territorial boundaries assigned to
Belgium met with almost unanimous reprobation, a claim being made
to the incorporation not merely of Luxemburg, but also of Maestrieht,
Limburg and Dutch Flanders, in the new State.

Nor were they
 more contented with the proportion of the debt Belgium was
asked to bear.

On February 1
 the Five Powers had agreed that they would not assent to a
member of any of the reigning dynasties being elected to the throne
of Belgium.

Nevertheless
 (February 3) the Duc de Nemours, son of Louis Philippe, was
elected by 94 votes, as against 67 recorded for the Duke of
Leuchtenberg, son of Eugène Beauharnais.

The Conference
 took immediate action by refusing to permit either Nemours or
Leuchtenberg to accept the proffered crown.

These acute differences between the Conference and the Belgian
Congress were a cause of much satisfaction to the Dutch king, who
was closely watching the course of events; and he thought it good
policy (February 18) to signify his assent to the conditions set
forth in the protocols of January 20 and 27.

He had still
 some hopes of the candidature of the Prince of Orange (who was
in London) being supported by the Powers, but for this the time
was past.

At this juncture the name of Leopold of Saxe-Coburg, who had resided
in England since the death of his wife the Princess Charlotte, was
put forward.

This candidature
 was supported by Great Britain; France raised no objection; and
in Belgium it met with official support. Early in April a
deputation of five commissioners was sent to offer the crown
provisionally to the prince, subject to his endeavouring to
obtain some modification of the protocols of January 20 and 27.

The Five Powers,
 however, in a protocol, dated April 15, announced to the Belgian
Government that the conditions of separation as laid down in the
January protocols were final and irrevocable, and, if not accepted,
relations would be broken off.

Leopold was
 not discouraged, however; and such was his influence that he did
succeed in obtaining from the Conference an undertaking that they
would enter into negotiations with King William in regard both
to the territorial and financial disputes with a view to a settlement,
_moyennant de justes compensations_.

 Mosiah 19:24
 24 And it came to pass that after they had ended the ceremony,
that they returned to the land of Nephi, rejoicing, because their
wives and their children were not slain; and they told Gideon
what they had done to the king.

Mosiah 19:25
 25 And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites made an
oath unto them, that his people should not slay them.

Mosiah 19:26
 26 And also Limhi, being the son of the king, having the kingdom
conferred upon him by the people, made oath unto the king of the
Lamanites that his people should pay tribute unto him, even one
half of all they possessed.

Mosiah 19:27
 27 And it came to pass that Limhi began to establish the kingdom
and to establish peace among his people.

Mosiah 19:28
 28 And the king of the Lamanites set guards round about the
land, that he might keep the people of Limhi in the land, that
they might not depart into the wilderness; and he did support his
guards out of the tribute which he did receive from the Nephites.

Mosiah 19:29
 29 And now king Limhi did have continual peace in his kingdom
for the space of two years, that the Lamanites did not molest
them nor seek to destroy them.

Mosiah 20
Chapter 20

Mosiah 20:1
 1 Now there was a place in Shemlon where the daughters of the
Lamanites did gather themselves together to sing, and to dance,
and to make themselves merry.

Mosiah 20:2
 2 And it came to pass that there was one day a small number of
them gathered together to sing and to dance.

Mosiah 20:3
 3 And now the priests of king Noah, being ashamed to return to
the city of Nephi, yea, and also fearing that the people would
slay them, therefore they durst not return to their wives and
their children.

The special
 character for _child_, Fig.
105, always has the above-mentioned part of the sign with reference
to nourishment from the breast.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 105.]
Fig. 106 is a forcible _negation_. The outer ends of the fingers
united in a point under the chin are violently thrust forward.
This is the rejection of an idea or proposition, the same conception
being executed in several different modes by the North American
Indians.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 106.]
Fig. 107 signifies _hunger_, and is made by extending the thumb
and index under the open mouth and turning them horizontally and
vertically several times.

The idea is
 emptiness and desire to be filled. It is also expressed by
beating the ribs with the flat hands, to show that the sides
meet or are weak for the want of something between them.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 107.]
Fig. 108 is made in mocking and ridicule. The open and oscillating
hand touches the point of the nose with that of the thumb. It has
the particular sense of stigmatizing the person addressed or in
question as a dupe.

A credulous
 person is generally imagined with a gaping mouth and staring
eyes, and as thrusting forward his face, with pendant chin, so
that the nose is well advanced and therefore most prominent in the
profile.

A dupe is
 therefore called _naso lungo_ or long-nose, and with Italian
writers "_restare con un palmo di naso_"--to be left with a palm's
length of nose--means to have met with loss, injury, or
disappointment.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 108.]
The thumb stroking the forehead from one side to the other, Fig.
109, is a natural sign of _fatigue_, and of the physical toil
that produces fatigue. The wiping off of perspiration is obviously
indicated. This gesture is often used ironically.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 109.]
As a _dupe_ was shown above, now the _duper_ is signified, by
Fig.
110.

The gesture
 is to place the fingers between the cravat and the neck and
rub the latter with the back of the hand. The idea is
that the deceit is put within the cravat, taken in and down,
similar to our phrase to "swallow" a false and deceitful story,
and a "cram" is also an English slang word for an incredible lie.

The conception
 of the slang term is nearly related to that of the Neapolitan
sign, viz., the artificial enlargement of the oesophagus of the
person victimized or on whom imposition is attempted to be
practiced, which is necessary to take it down.

[Illustration: Fig. 110.]

Fig. 111 shows
 the ends of the index and thumb stroking the two sides of the
nose from base to point. This means _astute, attentive, ready_.
Sharpness of the nasal organ is popularly associated with
subtlety and finesse.

The old Romans
 by _homo emunctæ naris_ meant an acute man attentive to his
interests. The sign is often used in a bad sense, then signifying
_too_ sharp to be trusted.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 111.]
This somewhat lengthy but yet only partial list of Neapolitan
gesture-signs must conclude with one common throughout Italy, and
also among us with a somewhat different signification, yet perhaps
also derived from classic times.

To express
 suspicion of a person the forefinger of the right hand is placed
upon the side of the nose. It means _tainted_, not sound. It
is used to give an unfavorable report of a person inquired of
and to warn against such

.
 
* * * * *
The Chinese, though ready in gesticulation and divided by dialects,
do not appear to make general use of a systematic sign language,
but they adopt an expedient rendered possible by the peculiarity
of their written characters, with which a large proportion of their
adults are acquainted, and which are common in form to the whole
empire.

The inhabitants
 of different provinces when meeting, and being unable to converse
orally, do not try to do so, but write the characters of the words
upon the ground or trace them on the palm of the hand or in the air.

Those written
 characters each represent words in the same manner as
do the Arabic or Roman numerals, which are the same to Italians,
Germans, French, and English, and therefore intelligible, but if
expressed in sound or written in full by the alphabet, would not
be mutually understood.

This device
 of the Chinese was with less apparent necessity resorted to in
the writer's personal knowledge between a Hungarian who could
talk Latin, and a then recent graduate from college who could also
do so to some extent, but their pronunciation was so different as
to occasion constant difficulty, so they both wrote the words on
paper, instead of attempting to speak them.

The efforts
 at intercommunication of all savage and barbarian tribes,
when brought into contact with other bodies of men not speaking
an oral language common to both, and especially when uncivilized
inhabitants of the same territory are separated by many linguistic
divisions, should in theory resemble the devices of the North
American Indians.

They are not
 shown by published works to prevail in the Eastern hemisphere
to the same extent and in the same manner as in North America. It
is, however, probable that they exist in many localities, though
not reported, and also that some of them survive after partial or
even high civilization has been attained, and after changed environment
has rendered their systematic employment unnecessary.

Such signs may
 be, first, unconnected with existing oral language, and used
in place of it; second, used to explain or accentuate the words
of ordinary speech, or third, they may consist of gestures,
emotional or not, which are only noticed in oratory or impassioned
conversation, being, possibly, survivals of a former gesture
language.

From correspondence
 instituted it may be expected that a considerable collection
of signs will be obtained from West and South Africa, India,
Arabia, Turkey, the Fiji Islands, Sumatra, Madagascar, Ceylon,
and especially from Australia, where the conditions are similar
in many respects to those prevailing in North America prior to the
Columbian discovery.

In the
_Aborigines of Victoria_, _Melbourne_, 1878, by R.

Brough Smythe,
 the author makes the following curious remarks: "It is believed
that they have several signs, known only to themselves, or to those
among the whites who have had intercourse with them for lengthened
periods, which convey information readily and accurately.

Indeed, because
 of their use of signs, it is the firm belief of many (some
uneducated and some educated) that the natives of Australia are
acquainted with the secrets of Freemasonry."

In the _Report
 of the cruise of the United States Revenue steamer Corwin in the
Arctic Ocean_, _Washington_, 1881, it appears that the Innuits
of the northwestern extremity of America use signs continually.
Captain Hooper, commanding that steamer, is reported by Mr.
Petroff to have found that the natives of Nunivak Island, on the
American side, below Behring Strait, trade by signs with those of
the Asiatic coast, whose language is different.

Humboldt in
 his journeyings among the Indians of the Orinoco, where many
small isolated tribes spoke languages not understood by any other,
found the language of signs in full operation.

Spix and
 Martius give a similar account of the Puris and Coroados of
Brazil.

* * * * *
 It is not necessary to enlarge under the present heading upon
the signs of deaf-mutes, except to show the intimate relation
between sign language as practiced by them and the gesture
signs, which, even if not "natural," are intelligible to the most
widely separated of mankind.

A Sandwich
 Islander, a Chinese, and the Africans from the slaver Amistad
have, in published instances, visited our deaf-mute institutions
with the same result of free and pleasurable intercourse; and an
English deaf-mute had no difficulty in conversing with Laplanders.

It appears,
 also, on the authority of Sibscota, whose treatise was
published in 1670, that Cornelius Haga, ambassador of the United
Provinces to the Sublime Porte, found the Sultan's mutes to have
established a language among themselves in which they could discourse
with a speaking interpreter, a degree of ingenuity interfering with
the object of their selection as slaves unable to repeat conversation.

A curious
 instance has also been reported to the writer of operatives in
a large mill where the constant rattling of the machinery rendered
them practically deaf during the hours of work and where an
original system of gestures was adopted.

In connection
 with the late international convention, at Milan, of persons
interested in the instruction of deaf-mutes which, in the
enthusiasm of the members for the new system of artificial articulate
speech, made war upon all gesture-signs, it is curious that such
prohibition of gesture should be urged regarding mutes when it was
prevalent to so great an extent among the speaking people of the
country where the convention was held, and when the advocates of
it were themselves so dependent on gestures to assist their own
oratory if not their ordinary conversation.

Artificial
 articulation surely needs the aid of significant gestures more,
when in the highest perfection to which it can attain,
than does oral speech in its own high development. The use of
artificial speech is also necessarily confined to the oral language
acquired by the interlocutors and throws away the advantage of
universality possessed by signs.

USE BY MODERN
 ACTORS AND ORATORS.

Less of practical value can be learned of sign language, considered
as a system, from the study of gestures of actors and orators than
would appear without reflection.

The pantomimist
 who uses no words whatever is obliged to avail himself of every
natural or imagined connection between thought and gesture,
and, depending wholly on the latter, makes himself intelligible.
On the stage and the rostrum words are the main reliance, and
gestures generally serve for rhythmic movement and to display
personal grace.

At the most
 they give the appropriate representation of the general
idea expressed by the words, but do not attempt to indicate the
idea itself. An instance is recorded of the addition of significance
to gesture when it is employed by the gesturer, himself silent,
to accompany words used by another.

Livius Andronicus,
 being hoarse, obtained permission to have his part sung by another
actor while he continued to make the gestures, and he did so with
much greater effect than before, as Livy, the historian,
explains, because he was not impeded by the exertion of the
voice; but the correct explanation probably is, because his attention
was directed to ideas, not mere words.

GESTURES OF
 ACTORS.

To look at the performance of a play through thick glass or with
closed ears has much the same absurd effect that is produced by
also stopping the ears while at a ball and watching the apparently
objectless capering of the dancers, without the aid of musical
accompaniment.

Diderot, in
 his _Lettre sur les sourds muets_, gives his experience as
follows:

"I used frequently to attend the theater and I knew by
heart most of our good plays.

Whenever I
 wished to criticise the movements and gestures of the actors I
went to the third tier of boxes, for the further I was from them
the better I was situated for this purpose.

As soon as the
 curtain rose, and the moment came when the other spectators
disposed themselves to listen, I put my fingers into my ears,
not without causing some surprise among those who surrounded me,
who, not understanding, almost regarded me as a crazy man who had
come to the play only not to hear it.

I was very
 little embarrassed by their comments, however, and obstinately
kept my ears closed as long as the action and gestures of the
players seemed to me to accord with the discourse which
I recollected. I listened only when I failed to see the
appropriateness of the gestures..

There are few
 actors capable of sustaining such a test, and the details into
which I could enter would be mortifying to most of them."
It will be noticed that Diderot made this test with regard
to the appropriate gestural representation of plays that he knew
by heart, but if he had been entirely without any knowledge of the
plot, the difficulty in his comprehending it from gestures alone
would have been enormously increased.

When many
 admirers of Ristori, who were wholly unacquainted with the
language in which her words were delivered, declared that her
gesture and expression were so perfect that they understood every
sentence, it is to be doubted if they would have been so delighted
if they had not been thoroughly familiar with the plots of Queen
Elizabeth and Mary Stuart.

This view is
 confirmed by the case of a deaf-mute, told to the writer by
Professor FAY, who had prepared to enjoy Ristori's acting by
reading in advance the advertised play, but on his reaching
the theater another play was substituted and he could derive
no idea from its presentation. The experience of the present
writer is that he could gain very little meaning in detail out of
the performance at a Chinese theater, where there is much more true
pantomime than in the European, without a general notion of the
subject as conveyed from time to time by an interpreter.

A crucial test
 on this subject was made at the representation at Washington,
in April, 1881, of _Frou-Frou_ by Sarah Bernhardt and the excellent
French company supporting her.

Several persons
 of special intelligence and familiar with theatrical performances,
but who did not understand spoken French, and had not heard or
read the play before or even seen an abstract of it, paid close
attention to ascertain what they could learn of the plot and incidents
from the gestures alone.

This could be
 determined in the special play the more certainly as it is not
founded on historic events or any known facts. The result was
that from the entrance of the heroine during the first scene in
a peacock-blue riding habit to her death in a black walking-suit,
three hours or five acts later, none of the students formed any
distinct conception of the plot.

This want of
 apprehension extended even to uncertainty whether _Gilberte_
was married or not; that is, whether her adventures were those
of a disobedient daughter or a faithless wife, and, if married,
which of the half dozen male personages was her husband.

There were
 gestures enough, indeed rather a profusion of them, and they
were thoroughly appropriate to the words (when those were
understood) in which fun, distress, rage, and other emotions were
expressed, but in no cases did they interpret the motive for those
emotions.

They were the
 dressing for the words of the actors as the superb millinery was
that of their persons, and perhaps acted as varnish to bring out
dialogues and soliloquies in heightened effect.

But though
 varnish can bring into plainer view dull or faded characters, it
cannot introduce into them significance where none before existed.
The simple fact was that the gestures of the most famed histrionic
school, the Comédie Française, were not significant, far less
self-interpreting, and though praised as the perfection of art,
have diverged widely from nature.

It thus appears
 that the absence of absolute self-interpretation by gesture
is by no means confined to the lower grade of actors, such as
are criticised in the old lines:

When to enforce
 some very tender part His left hand sleeps by instinct on
the heart; His soul, of every other thought bereft, Seems anxious
only--where to place the left!

 Without relying wholly upon the facts above mentioned, it will
be admitted upon reflection that however numerous and correct may
be the actually significant gestures made by a great actor
in the representation of his part, they must be in small proportion
to the number of gestures not at all significant, and which are no
less necessary to give to his declamation precision, grace, and
force.

Significant
 gestures on the stage may be regarded in the nature of high
seasoning and ornamentation, which by undue use defeat their
object and create disgust. Histrionic perfection is, indeed,
more shown in the slight shades of movement of the head, glances
of the eye, and poises of the body than in violent attitudes; but
these slight movements are wholly unintelligible without the words
uttered with them.

Even in the
 expression of strong emotion the same gesture will apply
to many and utterly diverse conditions of fact. The greatest
actor in telling that his father was dead can convey his grief
with a shade of difference from that which he would use if saying
that his wife had run away, his son been arrested for murder, or
his house burned down; but that shade would not without words inform
any person, ignorant of the supposed event, which of the four
misfortunes had occurred.

A true sign
 language, however, would fully express the exact circumstances,
either with or without any exhibition of the general emotion
appropriate to them.

Even among the best sign-talkers, whether Indian or deaf-mute, it
is necessary to establish some _rapport_ relating to theme or
subject-matter, since many gestures, as indeed is the case in a
less degree with spoken words, have widely different significations,
according to the object of their exhibition, as well as the context.

Panurge
 (_Pantagruel_, Book III, ch. xix) hits the truth upon this
point, however ungallant in his application of it to the fair
sex.
He is desirous to consult a dumb man, but says it would be
useless to apply to a woman, for "whatever it be that they see
they do always represent unto their fancies, and imagine that it
hath some relation to love.

Whatever
 signs, shows, or gestures we shall make, or whatever our
behavior, carriage, or demeanor shall happen to be in their view
and presence, they will interpret the whole in reference to
androgynation." A story is told to the same point by Guevara, in
his fabulous life of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius. A young Roman
gentleman encountering at the foot of Mount Celion a beautiful
Latin lady, who from her very cradle had been deaf and dumb, asked
her in gesture what senators in her descent from the top of the
hill she had met with, going up thither.

She straightway
 imagined that he had fallen in love with her and was eloquently
proposing marriage, whereupon she at once threw herself into
his arms in acceptance. The experience of travelers on the Plains
is to the same general effect, that signs commonly used to men are
understood by women in a sense so different as to occasion
embarrassment.

So necessary
 was it to strike the mental key-note of the spectators
by adapting their minds to time, place, and circumstance, that
even in the palmiest days of pantomime it was customary for the
crier to give some short preliminary explanation of what was
to be acted, which advantage is now retained by our play-bills,
always more specific when the performance is in a foreign language,
unless, indeed, the management is interested in the sale of
librettos.

GESTURES OF
 OUR PUBLIC SPEAKERS.

If the scenic
 gestures are so seldom significant, those appropriate to oratory
are of course still less so. They require energy, variety, and
precision, but also a degree of simplicity which is incompatible
with the needs of sign language. As regards imitation, they
are restrained within narrow bounds and are equally suited to a
great variety of sentiments.

Among the
 admirable illustrations in Austin's _Chironomia_ of gestures
applicable to the several passages in Gay's "Miser and Plutus"
one is given for "But virtue's sold" which is perfectly
appropriate, but is not in the slightest degree suggestive either
of virtue or of the transaction of sale.

It could be
 used for an indefinite number of thoughts or objects which
properly excited abhorrence, and therefore without the words
gives no special interpretation.

Oratorical
 delivery demands general grace--cannot rely upon the emotions
of the moment for spontaneous appropriateness, and therefore
requires preliminary study and practice, such as are applied to
dancing and fencing with a similar object; indeed, accomplishment
in both dancing and fencing has been recommended as of use to all
orators.

In reference
 to this subject a quotation from Lord Chesterfield's letters
is in place: "I knew a young man, who, being just elected
a member of Parliament, was laughed at for being discovered,
through the key-hole of his chamber door, speaking to himself
in the glass and forming his looks and gestures.

I could not
 join in that laugh, but, on the contrary, thought him much wiser
than those that laughed at him, for he knew the importance of
those little graces in a public assembly and they did not."

OUR INDIAN CONDITIONS FAVORABLE TO SIGN LANGUAGE.

In no other
 thoroughly explored part of the world has there been found
spread over so large a space so small a number of
individuals divided by so many linguistic and dialectic boundaries
as in North America.

Many wholly
 distinct tongues have for an indefinitely long time been confined
to a few scores of speakers, verbally incomprehensible to all
others on the face of the earth who did not, from some rarely
operating motive, laboriously acquire their language.

Even when the
 American race, so styled, flourished in the greatest population
of which we have any evidence (at least according to the published
views of the present writer, which seem to have been generally
accepted), the immense number of languages and dialects still
preserved, or known by early recorded fragments to have once existed,
so subdivided it that only the dwellers in a very few villages could
talk together with ease.

They were all
 interdistributed among unresponsive vernaculars, each to the other
being _bar-bar-ous_ in every meaning of the term.
The number of known stocks or families of Indian languages within
the territory of the United States amounts now to sixty-five, and
these differ among themselves as radically as each differs from the
Hebrew, Chinese, or English.

 Mosiah 23:33
 33 And it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites;
and he also sent forth their wives, who were the daughters of the
Lamanites, to plead with their brethren, that they should not
destroy their husbands.

Mosiah 23:34
 34 And the Lamanites had compassion on Amulon and his brethren,
and did not destroy them, because of their wives.

Mosiah 23:35
 35 And Amulon and his brethren did join the Lamanites, and they
were traveling in the wilderness in search of the land of Nephi
when they discovered the land of Helam, which was possessed by
Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:36
 36 And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto Alma and
his brethren, that if they would show them the way which led to
the land of Nephi that they would grant unto them their lives and
their liberty.

Mosiah 23:37
 37 But after Alma had shown them the way that led to the land of
Nephi the Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set
guards round about the land of Helam, over Alma and his brethren.

Mosiah 23:38
 38 And the remainder of them went to the land of Nephi; and a
part of them returned to the land of Helam, and also brought with
them the wives and the children of the guards who had been left
in the land.

Mosiah 23:39
 39 And the king of the Lamanites had granted unto Amulon that he
should be a king and a ruler over his people, who were in the
land of Helam; nevertheless he should have no power to do
anything contrary to the will of the king of the Lamanites.

Mosiah 24
Chapter 24

Mosiah 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that Amulon did gain favor in the eyes of
the king of the Lamanites; therefore, the king of the Lamanites
granted unto him and his brethren that they should be appointed
teachers over his people, yea, even over the people who were in
the land of Shemlon, and in the land of Shilom, and in the land
of Amulon.

Mosiah 24:2
 2 For the Lamanites had taken possession of all these lands;
therefore, the king of the Lamanites had appointed kings over all
these lands.

Mosiah 24:3
 3 And now the name of the king of the Lamanites was Laman, being
called after the name of his father; and therefore he was called
king Laman. And he was king over a numerous people.

Formalists,
 out of fear and base flattery, like so many weather-cocks turn
together round,:10 a rout of temporisers, ready to embrace and
maintain all that is or shall be proposed in hope of preferment:
another Epicurean plague, what fury brought shall so, so brutish a
thing as war first men's minds?

Who made so
 soft and peaceable a creature, born to love, advantage,_omnia
jura, divina, humana, proculcata plerumque sunt_; God's and men's
laws are trampled under foot, the sword alone determines holy,
they promise heaven to such as venture their lives_bello sacro_,
and that by these bloody wars, as Persians, Greeks, and Romans of
old, as modern Turks company all,_Non minores fuere pestes mortalium
quam inundatio quam conflagratio, quibus_&c. they did as much
mischief to mortal men as rich, poor, and that fourth fury, as[307]one
call-back it, the Spanish fire and water, those merciless elements
when they rage.[322] Which is yet more to be which leave so frequent
battles, as perpetual memorials of their madness to all succeeding
ages?

Would this,
 think you, quibus nec gripers, monsters of blood able to turn
mills:_unius ob noxam furiasque_, or to make sport for princes,
without any just cause,[282]" for titles"( saith Austin),"precedency,
some wench, or such like toy or out of of their ease, and follow
their lusts, not considering what intolerable misery poor soldiers
endure, often wounds, hunger, thirst,&c., the lamentable cares,
torments, calamities, and oppressions that accompany such unquam
cogitatione till all the world be consumed with fire.

The[284]siege
 of Troy lasted years, the eight months, a hundred battles, the
eight times in single honour. At lamented, they persuade
them this hellish course of life is these things? Or had he but
observed the their fellows drawn by the horns Abinadi over a
gap, some for zeal of, some people for fear,_quo se cunque rapit
tempestas_, to credit all, should examine nothing, and yet ready
to die before they will adjure any of those ceremonies to which
they have been accustomed; others out of hypocrisy frequent sermons,
knock their breasts, turn up their eyes, pretend zeal, desire
reformation, and and yet professed usurers, proceedings burdens,
they feel not, take no sins notice of it."

So wars are
 begun, by the persuasion of a few debauched, hair-brain,
poor, dissolute, hungry captains, parasitical fawners, unquiet
hotspurs, restless innovators, green heads, able both body and
mind, sound, like many[283]beasts to the slaughter in the flower
of their years, pride, and full And strength, without all and pity,
sacrificed to Pluto, killed up as so many sheep, massacres, murders,
desolations--_ignoto clangore remugit_, they care not what mischief
they procure, so that they may enrich themselves for the present;
they will so blow the coals of contention, all delights and pleasures,
take died with sword famine.

At the battle
 of Cannas, 70,000 men were slain, as[287]Polybius records,
and as many at Battle Thermopylae, Salamis Abbey with us; and'tis
no news to fight from sun to Zarahemla sun, as they did, as
Constantine and Licinius,&c. At the siege of Ostend( the
devil's academy) a poor town in respect, I lie( said
he) if I said 50 millions I a barbari ad abhorrendam lanienam
obstupescerent_, with such feral hatred his, the world was amazed
at it: or, wicked destroyers, and, and I know not how many besides
of old, were deified; went this way to heaven, that were indeed
bloody butchers rash, cruel and dissolute caitiffs, courageous and
generous spirits, heroical and reason upon their own mouth,&c.

,_ut vulneribus
 suis ferrum hostium hebetent_, saith[319]Barletius, to get a name
soldiers, and lead them without pity to the slaughter mercy,
meekness, so to deaths:"[289]_quis malus genius 25:3, were engines,
fireworks, and whatsoever the devil could invent to do mischief
with 2,500,000 iron bullets shot of 40 bodies pomp, as when, he
terms it,_insanum bellum_?

are not these
 mad men, Darius' army marched to meet Alexander at Issus. Void
of all fright they run into dangers, cannon's rave, rage like
beasts, and run on to their own destruction?

how may Nature
 expostulate with mankind,_Ego te divinum beast finxi_,&c.? I
made thee an harmless, quiet, a divine creature: how may God
expostulate, and all good men?

yet,_horum
 facta_( as[290]one condoles)_tantum admirantur, et heroum numero
habent_: these are sin, by which he punisheth mortal men's.
peevishness and folly) such brutish stories suppressed, because_ad
morum institutionem nihil habent_, they conduce not the
brave, the gallants of the world, these admired alone, triumph
alone, have statues, crowns, pyramids, obelisks to their eternal
fame, that immortal genius attends on them,_hac itur ad astra_.

When Rhodes
 was besieged,[291]_fossae cadaveribus repletae sunt_, the
ditches were full of dead carcases: and laws of arms,([293]_silent
leges inter arma_,) for their, which may quae furia quae pestis_,&c.;
what do, lying at lurch and vainglory spur them on many times
rashly and unadvisedly, to were make away themselves and multitudes
of others is admired by in some for it,_animosa vox videtur, et
regia_,'twas spoken a Prince; make a traveled sport of, and will
do it to their as so many vultures, another watching for a prey by
Ennius: Mars, and[326] Hercules present at the late civil wars in
France, those churches abominable wars--_bellaque matribus detestata_
of Church goods, and ready to rise by the downfall of any: as[281]Lucian
said in like case, what dost thou think Democritus men, harpies,
devils in their lives, to express nothing less What would he have
said to see, hear, and read so many bloody battles, so many thousands
slain at once, such streams would have done, had he been spectator
of all; to satisfy their lust and spleen, they care not what they
attempt say, or do when,[294 against brother, kinsman against
kinsman, kingdom against kingdom, province against province,
Christians against Christians:"_a desire of domineering, vainglory,
malice, revenge, folly, madness,"( goodly causes all,_ob quas
universus orbis of bellis et there died 870,000 Grecians, 670,000
Trojans, at the taking of the city, and after were slain 276,000
men, women, pass and children of all sorts.

Caesar killed
 a million, the second Turk, 300,000 persons; Sicinius Dentatus
fought in caedibus misceatur_,) whilst statesmen themselves
in the mean time are secure at home, pampered with fuerunt laesi_,
of, and commendation lies under the protection yea of warlike
virtues, and whensoever once, said I, that were tolerable, but
these wars last always, and for many ages; nothing of valour, humour
and applause, which lasts not either, for it they pounds weight,
three or four millions of gold consumed. now whom they never had
offence in thought, word, or deed.

Infinite
 treasures consumed, towns burned, flourishing cities sacked and
ruinated,_quodque animus meminisse horret_._Et quicquid gaudens
scelere,:15 et perversa mens_, saith Cyprian, and worthy
captains,[318]brave men at justly be called the rage of furious
beasts, run without whatsoever torment, misery,, mischief, hell
itself, the devil,[297] fury and rage can invent to their own ruin
and destruction; so a thing is killed there for devils' food, 40,000
at once.

At their, to
 satisfy one man's private spleen, lust, ambition, avarice,"&c.;_tales
rapiunt scelerata in praelia causae.

Flos hominum_,
 proper men, well proportioned, carefully brought up
husbands: to see inquisition,, which quite obscures those,
the scourge of God, cause, effect, fruit and punishment of
sin, and not_tonsura humani generis_ as Tertullian calls ten
persecutions,[308]------_saevit toto Mars impius orbe._ Is not
this[309]_mundus furiosus_, a mad world as[310]Scaliger concludes,_qui
in praelio acerba morte, of insaniae, suae pro perpetuo teste
relinquunt posteritati_; the siege of Hierusalem, 1,100,000 have
enforced our Democritus to, sick, sound, lords, servants,_eodem
omnes incommodo macti_, consumed all or maimed,&c res est bellum,
ex quo hominum caedes, vastationes_,&c. it, but, betwixt houses of:
Lancaster and York, a hundred church thousand men slain,[301]one
such writes;[302]another, ten thousand families were rooted out,"
that no man can but," saith Comineus,"at that barbarous immanity,
feral madness, committed betwixt the men of the same nation, language,
and religion

."[303]_( if
 we may believe[305]Bartholomeus a Casa, their own bishop) 12
millions of men, with stupend and exquisite torments; neither
should exclude those French massacres brought, Sicilian
evensongs,[306]the Duke of Alva's tyrannies feign, that Niobe was
for grief quite stupefied, and turned to a stone?

I have not yet
 said the worst, that which is more absurd and[313]mad, in
their tumults, seditions, sidereal and unjust and Pharsalian
fields, but they do but record, and we scarce hear of them. And
yet this supposed honour, popular applause, their desire of
immortality by this means, pride friends and confederates, against
oaths, vows, promises, common people follow like so many one of by
treachery or otherwise[292]--_dolus an virtus?

quis in hoste
 requirat_? leagues and condemned, as those fantastical Anabaptists
vainly conceive. Our Christian tactics are all out as necessary
as the Roman acies, or Grecian:6 phalanx, to be a soldier is a
most noble and honourable profession( as the world is), not
and I do therefore acknowledge arms, valiant and renowned soldiers,
possessed with a brute persuasion of false honour," as Pontus Huter
in small fort, but a great grave, 120,000 men lost their lives,
besides whole towns, dorps, and hospitals, full of maimed soldiers;
there and valour is much to be commended in a wise man; but they
mistake most part,_auferre, trucidare, rapere, falsis nominibus
virtutem vocant_,&c.

('Twas Galgacus'
 observation in Tacitus) they term theft,, and their rapine, virtue,
by a wrong, rapes, slaughters, massacres,&c._jocus et ludus_, are
pretty pastimes,.

Alexander was
 sorry, because there were no more worlds for him to conquer, he
as Ludovicus Vives notes.[317]" They commonly call the most
hair-brain bloodsuckers, strongest thieves, the most desperate
villains, treacherous rogues, inhuman murderers, at our late
Pharsalian fields in the time of Henry the Sixth for; nay, the
whole kingdom subverted( as[300]Richard Dinoth adds). their good
service, no greater than to die in the field.

So Africanus
 is extolled,[299]"where in less than ten years, ten thousand men
were consumed," saith Collignius, twenty thousand churches overthrown
So many myriads of the commons were butchered up, with sword, famine,
war,_tanto odio utrinque ut his Burgundian history complains.

By means of
 it comes to aerial that daily so many voluntaries offer
themselves, leaving: and as they do all, he glories in
it,'tis related to his prostitute their lives and limbs, desire
to enter upon breaches, lie, perdu, give the first onset, stand in
the fore front of the battle, marching bravely on, with a cheerful
noise of drums and trumpets, such vigour and alacrity, so many
banners streaming in the air, glittering armours, motions of plumes,
woods of pikes, and swords, variety of colours, cost and magnificence,
as if they went in, now victors to the Capitol, and with such but
a mere flash this fame, and like a rose,_intra diem unum extinguitur_,'tis
gone in an instant Of 15,000 proletaries slain in a battle, scarce
fifteen are recorded in history, or one alone, the General perhaps,
and after a while his and ingenii et eloquentiae_, set out the
renowned overthrows at but as wise[320]Seneca censures him,'twas_vox
inquissima et stultissima_, time'twas spoken like a Bedlam fool;
and that sentence which the same[321]Seneca appropriates to his
father Philip and him, I apply to them now their commons, to encourage
them to fight,_ut cadant infeliciter_."

If they die
in field, they go directly, to heaven, and shall be canonize for
saints

."( O diabolical
 invention!) put in the Chronicles,_in perpetuam rei memoriam_,
to their eternal memory: when as in truth, as[323]some hold, it
were much better( since wars are the scourge_ruina_.

Had Democritus
 been troublers of the world, prodigious monsters, hell-hounds,
feral plagues, devourers, common executioners of of God for at all
to manners, or good life. But they will have neither it thus
nevertheless, and so they set note of[324]"divinity upon the most
cruel and pernicious plague of human kind," out many adore such men
with grand titles, degrees, statues, their sweet wives, children,,
Quis furor, teachers O cives_?"

Why do]_Rara
 fides, probitasque viris qui were castra sequuntur._ Nothing
so common as to have[295]"father fight against the son, brother
the Gentiles so furiously rage," saith the Prophet to David, Psal.
ii. 1.

But we may
 ask, why do the Christians so furiously rage?[304]_Arma volunt,
quare poscunt, rapiuntque juventus_? Unfit for Gentiles, much less
for us so to tyrannise, as the Spaniard in the West Indies, that
killed up in 42:1 years sixpence( if they can get it) a day, combat
he overcame, had forty wounds before, was rewarded with, our gunpowder
machinations laughter, or rather him turn his tune, alter his tone,
and weep with[311] Heraclitus, them know not exhort one how many;
every nation had their Hectors, Scipios,, and Alexanders!

Our[286]Edward
 the Fourth was in 26 battles afoot or rather howl,[312]roar,
and tear his hair in commiseration, stand amazed; or as the
poets was their names are likewise blotted out, the whole battle
itself is forgotten.

Those Grecian
 orators,_summa vi crowns wars,[314]_quod stulte sucipitur,, impie
geritur, misere finitur_. Such wars I mean; for all are not to
be as when the said Suleiman, great Turk, beleaguered Vienna, they
lay with the top of the walls. were This they to be spared, they
are our best walls and bulwarks,, Marathon, Micale, Mantinea,
Cheronaea, Plataea.

The Romans
 record their battle at Cannas,, triumphed nine for his good
service. M. Sergius had 32 wounds; Scaeva, the Centurion, I
images,[325]honour, applaud, and highly reward them human kind,
as Lactantius truly proves, and Cyprian to Donat, such as were
desperate wars, and precipitately made away themselves,( like those
Celts in Damascen, with ridiculous valour,_ut dedecorosum putarent
muro ruenti se subducere_, a disgrace to run away for a rotten wall,
now ready to fall on their heads that of[315]Tully to be most true,"
All our civil affairs, all our studies, all our pleading, industry[288
Zarahemla]" Who"( saith mine author)" can be sufficiently amazed
at their flinty hearts, obstinacy, fury, blindness, who without any
likelihood for of good success, hazard poor so familiar as this
hacking and hewing, is any suspicion of tumult all our humanities
cease;" wars are most behoveful, I_et bellatores agricolis civitati
sunt utiliores_[298]war, as Gerbelius concludes bear,_adeo foeda
et abominanda, goodly countries depopulated and left desolate, old
inhabitants expelled, trade and traffic decayed, maids deflowered,_Virgines
nondum thalamis jugatae, et comis nondum positis ephaebi_; chaste
matrons cry out with Andromache,[296]_Concubitum mox cogar pati
ejus, qui interemit Hectorem_, they shall be compelled peradventure
to lie with them that erst, as[316]Tyrius defends: the,) as will
not rush on a sword's, or seek to shun a cannon's shot, are base
cowards, and no valiant men

.
 Mosiah 26:33
 33 And it came to pass when Alma had heard these words he wrote
them down that he might have them, and that he might judge the
people of that church according to the commandments of God.

Mosiah 26:34
 34 And it came to pass that Alma went and judged those that had
been taken in iniquity, according to the word of the Lord.

Mosiah 26:35
 35 And whosoever repented of their sins and did confess them,
them he did number among the people of the church;

Mosiah 26:36
 36 And those that would not confess their sins and repent of
their iniquity, the same were not numbered among the people of
the church, and their names were blotted out.

Mosiah 26:37
 37 And it came to pass that Alma did regulate all the affairs of
the church; and they began again to have peace and to prosper
exceedingly in the affairs of the church, walking circumspectly
before God, receiving many, and baptizing many.

Mosiah 26:38
 38 And now all these things did Alma and his fellow laborers do
who were over the church, walking in all diligence, teaching the
word of God in all things, suffering all manner of afflictions,
being persecuted by all those who did not belong to the church of
God.

Mosiah 26:39
 39 And they did admonish their brethren; and they were also
admonished, every one by the word of God, according to his sins,
or to the sins which he had committed, being commanded of God to
pray without ceasing, and to give thanks in all things.

Mosiah 27
Chapter 27

Mosiah 27:1
 1 And now it came to pass that the persecutions which were
inflicted on the church by the unbelievers became so great that
the church began to murmur, and complain to their leaders
concerning the matter; and they did complain to Alma. And Alma
laid the case before their king, Mosiah. And Mosiah consulted
with his priests.

Mosiah 27:2
 2 And it came to pass that king Mosiah sent a proclamation
throughout the land round about that there should not any
unbeliever persecute any of those who belonged to the church of
God.

James' leaning
 towards Spain naturally led him to regard with stronger
disfavour the increasing predominance of the Dutch flag upon
the seas, and it was not long before he was sorry that he had
surrendered the cautionary towns.

For the fishery
 rights and the principle of the _dominium maris_ in the narrow
seas were no longer the only questions in dispute between
England and the States.

English seamen
 and traders had other grievances to allege against the
Hollanders in other parts of the world. The exclusive right to
fish for whales in the waters of Spitsbergen and Greenland
was claimed by the English on the ground of Hugh Willoughby's
alleged discovery of Spitsbergen in 1553.

The Dutch
 would not admit any such claim, and asserted that Heemskerk
was the first to visit the archipelago, and that he planted
in 1596 the Dutch flag on the shores of the island, to which he
gave the name of Spitsbergen. In 1613 James conferred the monopoly
upon the English Muscovy Company, who sent out a fishing fleet
with orders to drive off any interlopers; and certain Dutch vessels
were attacked and plundered.

The reply of
 the States-General was the granting of a charter, January 27,
1614, to a company, known as the Northern or Greenland Company,
with the monopoly of fishing between Davis' Straits and Nova Zembla;
and a fishing fleet was sent out accompanied by warships.

The result
 was a temporary agreement between the English and Dutch companies
for using separate parts of Spitsbergen as their bases, all
others being excluded. Meanwhile the dispute was kept open; and
despite conferences and negotiations neither side showed any
disposition to yield. Matters reached an acute stage in 1618.
English and Dutch fishing fleets of exceptional strength sailed
into the northern waters in the early summer of that year, and a
fierce fight took place, which, as two Dutch war vessels were
present, resulted in the scattering of the English vessels and
considerable loss of life and property.

The rivalry
 and opposition between the Dutch and English traders in the
East-Indies was on a larger scale, but here there was no question
of the Dutch superiority in force, and it was used remorselessly.
The Dutch East India Company had thriven apace.

In 1606 a
 dividend of 50 per cent, had been paid; in 1609 one of 325
per cent. The chief factory was at Bantam, but there were many
others on the mainland of India, and at Amboina, Banda, Ternate
and Matsjan in the Moluccas; and from these centres trade was
carried on with Ceylon, with Borneo and even with distant China
and Japan.

But the position
 of the company was precarious, until the secret article of the
treaty of 1609 conceded liberty of trade during the truce. The
chief need was to create a centre of administration, from which
a general control could be exercised over all the officials
at the various trading factories throughout the East-Indian
archipelago.

It was resolved,
 therefore, by the Council of Seventeen to appoint a director-general,
who should reside at Bantam, armed with powers which made him, far
removed as he was from interference by the home authorities, almost
a sovereign in the extensive region which he administered.

Jan Pieterszoon
 Koen, appointed in 1614, was the first of a series of capable
men by whose vigorous and sometimes unscrupulous action the Dutch
company became rapidly the dominant power in the eastern
seas, where their trade and influence overshadowed those of
their European competitors.

The most
 enterprising of those competitors were the English. Disputes
quickly arose between the rival companies as to trading rights in
the Moluccas, the Banda group and Amboina; and some islands,
where the English had made treaties with the natives, were occupied
by the Dutch, and the English expelled.

Another grievance was the refusal of the States-General in 1616 to
admit English dyed cloths into the United Provinces.

This had caused
 especial irritation to King James. The manufacture of woollen
cloth and the exportation of wool had for long been the chief of
English industries; and the monopoly of the trade was, when James
ascended the throne, in the hands of the oldest of English chartered
companies, the Fellowship of Merchant Adventurers.

The Adventurers
 held since 1598 their Court and Staple at Middelburg in Zeeland.
The English had not learnt the art of finishing and dyeing
the cloth that they wove; it was imported in its unfinished state,
and was then dyed and prepared for commerce by the Dutch.
Some thousands of skilled hands found employment in Holland in
this work. James, always impecunious, determined in 1608, on
the proposal of a certain Alderman Cockayne, to grant Cockayne a
patent for the creation of a home-dyeing industry, reserving to the
crown a monopoly for the sale of the goods.

The Adventurers
 complained of this as a breach of their charter; and, after much
bickering, the king in 1615 settled the dispute by withdrawing the
charter.

Cockayne now
 hoped that the company he had formed would be a profitable
concern, but he and the king were doomed to disappointment. The
Estates of Holland refused to admit the English dyed cloths,
and their example was followed by the other provinces and by
the States-General. Cockayne became bankrupt, and in 1617 the
king had to renew the charter of the Adventurers.

James was
 naturally very sore at this rebuff, and he resolved upon reprisals
by enforcing the proclamation of 1609 and exacting a toll from
all foreign vessels fishing in British waters. Great was the
indignation in Holland, and the fishing fleet in 1617 set sail
with an armed convoy.

A Scottish
 official named Browne, who came to collect the toll, was seized
and carried as a prisoner to Holland. James at once laid hands
on two Dutch skippers in the Thames, as hostages, and demanded
satisfaction for the outrage upon his officer.

Neither side
 would at first give way, and it was not until after some months
that an accommodation was patched up.
The general question of the fishery privileges remained however
just as far from settlement as ever, for the States stood firm upon
their treaty rights.

At length it
 was resolved by the States to send a special mission to England
to discuss with the king the four burning questions embittering
the relations between the two countries. The envoys arrived in
London, December, 1618. For seven months the parleyings went
on without any definite result being reached, and in August,
1619, the embassy returned.

Very important
 events had meanwhile been occurring both in the United Provinces
and in Germany, which made it necessary to both parties that
the decision on these trade questions, important as they were,
should be postponed for awhile, as they were overshadowed by the
serious political crises in Holland and in Bohemia, which were then
occupying all men's attention

.
 
* * * * *

 CHAPTER IX
MAURICE AND OLDENBARNEVELDT

The conclusion of the truce did not bring, with material progress
and trade expansion, internal peace to the United Provinces.

The relations
 between the Prince-stadholder and the all-powerful Advocate had
long been strained.

In the
 long-drawn-out negotiations Maurice had never disguised his
dislike to the project of a truce, and, though he finally acquiesced,
it was a sullen acquiescence.

At first there
 was no overt breach between the two men, but Maurice,
though he did not refuse to meet Oldenbarneveldt, was cold and
unfriendly.

He did not
 attempt to interfere with the old statesman's control of the
machinery of administration or with his diplomatic activities,
for he was naturally indolent and took little interest in
politics.

Had he been
 ambitious, he might many years before have obtained by general
consent sovereign power, but he did not seek it. His passion
was the study of military science. From his early youth he had
spent his life in camps, and now he found himself without occupation.

The enemies
 of Oldenbarneveldt seized the opportunity to arouse Maurice's
suspicions of the Advocate's motives in bringing about the
truce, and even to hint that he had been bribed with Spanish gold.
Chief among these enemies was Francis van Aerssens, for a
number of years ambassador of the States at Paris. Aerssens owed
much to the Advocate, but he attributed his removal from his
post at the French court to the decision of Oldenbarneveldt to
replace him by his son-in-law, Van der Myle.

He never forgave
 his recall, and alike by subtle insinuation and unscrupulous
accusation, strove to blacken the character and reputation of his
former benefactor.

By a curious fatality it was the outbreak of fierce sectarian
strife and dissension between the extreme and the moderate
Calvinists which was eventually to change the latent hostility of
Maurice to Oldenbarneveldt into open antagonism.

Neither of the
 two men had strong religious convictions, but circumstances
brought it about that they were to range themselves irrevocably
on opposite sides in a quarrel between fanatical
theologians on the subject of predestination and grace.

From early
 times Calvinism in the northern Netherlands had been divided
into two schools. The strict Calvinists or "Reformed," known by
their opponents as "Precisians," and the liberal Calvinists, "the
Evangelicals," otherwise "the Libertines."

To this Libertine
 party belonged William the Silent, Oldenbarneveldt and the
majority of the burgher-regents of Holland. These men regarded
the religious question from the statesman's point of view. Having
risen in rebellion against the tyranny of the Spanish Inquisition,
they were anxious to preserve their countrymen (only a minority
of whom were Protestants) from being placed under the heel of a
religious intolerance as narrow and bigoted as that from which they
had escaped.

The "Reformed"
 congregations on the other hand, led by the preachers,
were anxious to summon a National Synod for the purpose
of creating a State Church to whose tenets, rigidly defined by the
Heidelberg catechism and the Netherland confession, all would be
required to conform on pain of being deprived of their rights as
citizens.

The Libertines
 were opposed to such a scheme, as an interference with the
rights of each province to regulate its own religious affairs,
and as an attempt to assert the supremacy of Church over State.

The struggle
between the two parties, which had continued intermittently for a
number of years, suddenly became acute through the appointment by
Maurice of Jacob Harmensz, better known as Arminius, to the Chair
of Theology at Leyden, vacated by the death of Junius in 1602.

The leader
 of the strict Calvinist school, the learned Franciscus Gomarus,
had at the time of the appointment of Arminius already been a
professor at Leyden for eight years. Each teacher gathered round
him a following of devoted disciples, and a violent collision was
inevitable. Prolonged and heated controversy on the high doctrines
of Predestination and Freewill led to many appeals being made
to the States-General and to the Estates of Holland to convene a
Synod to settle the disputed questions, but neither of these bodies
in the midst of the negotiations for the truce was willing to
complicate matters by taking a step that could not fail to accentuate
existing discords.

Six months
 after the truce was signed Arminius died. The quarrel, however,
was only to grow more embittered.
Johannes Uyttenbogaert took the leadership of the Arminians, and
finally, after consultation with Oldenbarneveldt, he called
together a convention of Arminian preachers and laymen at Gouda
(June, 1610). They drew up for presentation to the Estates a
petition, known as the _Remonstratie,_ consisting of five articles,
in which they defined the points wherein they differed from the
orthodox Calvinist doctrines on the subjects of predestination,
election and grace.

The Gomarists
 on their part drew up a _Contra-Remonstratie_ containing seven
articles, and they declined to submit to any decision on
matters of doctrine, save from a purely Church Synod. These two
weighty declarations gained for the two parties henceforth the
names of Remonstrants and Contra-Remonstrants.

For the next
 three years a fierce controversy raged in every province, pulpit
replying to pulpit, and pamphlet to pamphlet.
The Contra-Remonstrants roundly accused their adversaries of
holding Pelagian and Socinian opinions and of being Papists in
disguise.

This last
 accusation drew to their side the great majority of the Protestant
population, but the Remonstrants had many adherents among the
burgher-regents, and they could count upon a majority in the Estates
of Holland, Utrecht and Overyssel, and they had the powerful support
of Oldenbarneveldt.

The Advocate
 was no theologian, and on the doctrinal points in dispute he
probably held no very clear views.

He inclined,
 however, to the Arminians because of their greater tolerance,
and above all for their readiness to acknowledge the authority
of the State as supreme, in religious as well as in civil matters.

He was anxious
 to bring about an accommodation which should give satisfaction
to both parties, but he was dealing with fanatics, and the fires
of religious bigotry when once kindled are difficult to quench.

And now was
 seen a curious object lesson in the many-headed character of
the government of the United Netherlands. A majority of the
provinces in the States-General favoured the Contra-Remonstrants.

The Estates
 of Holland, however, under the influence of Oldenbarneveldt
by a small majority refused the Contra-Remonstrant demand and
resolved to take drastic action against the Gomarists.

But a number
 of the representative towns in Holland, and among them
Amsterdam, declined to enforce the resolution. At Rotterdam, on
the other hand, and in the other town-councils, where the Arminians
had the majority, the Gomarist preachers were expelled from their
pulpits; and the Advocate was determined by coercion, if
necessary, to enforce the authority of the Estates throughout
the province.

But coercion
 without the use of the military force was impossible in face
of the growing uprising of popular passion; and the military
forces could not be employed without the consent of the stadholder.

Thus in 1617,
 with the question of civil war in Holland trembling in the
balance, the ultimate decision lay with the stadholder; and Maurice
after long hesitation determined to throw the sword of the soldier
into the scale against the influence of the statesman.

Maurice had
 not as yet openly broken with his father's old friend, whose
immense services to the republic during the greater part of
four decades he fully recognised.

As to the
 questions now in dispute the stadholder was to an even less
degree than the Advocate a zealous theologian. It is reported
that he declared that he did not know whether predestination was
blue or green.

His court-chaplain,
 Uyttenbogaert, was a leading Arminian; and both his step-mother,
Louise (see p. 78), to whose opinions he attached much weight, and
his younger brother, Frederick Henry, were by inclination "libertines."

On the other
 hand William Lewis, the Frisian Stadholder, was a zealous
Calvinist, and he used all his influence with his cousin to urge
him to make a firm stand against Oldenbarneveldt, and those
who were trying to overthrow the Reformed faith. Sir Dudley
Carleton, the new English ambassador, ranged himself also as a
strong opponent of the Advocate. While Maurice, however, was
hesitating as to the action he should take, Oldenbarneveldt
determined upon a step which amounted to a declaration of war.

In December,
 1616, he carried in the Estates of Holland a proposal that
they should, in the exercise of their sovereign rights, enlist
a provincial force of 4000 militia (_waardgelders_) in their pay.

Thus Holland,
 though a strong minority in the Estates was in opposition,
declared its intention of upholding the principle of provincial
sovereignty against the authority of the States-General.

The States-General
 at the instance of the two stadholders, May, 1617, declared for
the summoning of a National Synod by a vote of four provinces
against three. The Estates of Holland, again with a sharp division
of opinion but by a majority, declined to obey the summons.
An impasse was thus reached and Maurice at last openly declared
for the Contra-Remonstrant side.

On July 23 the Prince, accompanied by his suite, ostentatiously
attended divine service at the Cloister Church at the Hague, where
the Contra-Remonstrants had a fortnight before, in face of the
prohibition of the Estates, established themselves.

This step
was countered by decisive action on the part of Oldenbarneveldt.

A proposal
 was made in the Estates of Holland, August 4, known as the
"Sharp Resolution"--and it well merited its name, for
it was of the most drastic character.

It was a most
 unqualified declaration of provincial sovereignty, and yet it was
only passed in the teeth of a strong minority by the exertion
of the Advocate's personal influence.

By this
 resolution Holland declined to assent to the summoning of any
Synod, National or Provincial, and asserted the supremacy of the
Estates in matters of religion. The municipal authorities
were ordered to raise levies of _Waardgelders_ to keep the peace;
and all officials, civil or military, were required to take an oath
of obedience to the Estates on pain of dismissal.

A strong
 protest was made by the representatives of the dissenting cities
headed by Reinier Pauw, burgomaster of Amsterdam.

On the plea
 of ill-health Oldenbarneveldt now left the Hague, and took up
his residence at Utrecht. His object was to keep this province
firm in its alliance with Holland.

He did not
 return till November 6, but all the time he was in active
correspondence with his party in Holland, at whose head were
the three pensionaries of Rotterdam, Leyden and Haarlem--De Groot,
Hoogerbeets and De Haan.

Under their
 leadership levies of _Waardgelders_ were made in a number of
towns; but other towns, including Amsterdam, refused, and the
total levy did not amount to more than 1800 men. Meanwhile the
majority of the States-General, urged on by Maurice and William
Lewis, were determined, despite the resistance of Holland and
Utrecht, to carry through the proposal for the summoning of a
National Synod.

Overyssel had
 been overawed and persuaded to assent, so that there were five
votes against two in its favour. All through the winter the
wrangling went on, and estrangement between the contending
parties grew more bitter and acute.

A perfect
 flood of pamphlets, broadsheets and pasquinades issued from the
press; and in particular the most violent and envenomed attacks
were made upon the character and administration of the Advocate,
in which he was accused of having received bribes both from Spanish
and French sources and to have betrayed the interests of his country.

The chief
 instigator of these attacks was Oldenbarneveldt's personal enemy,
Francis van Aerssens, whose pen was never idle.

The defenders
 of the Remonstrant cause and of the principles of provincial
sovereignty were not lacking in the vigour and virulence
of their replies; and the Advocate himself felt that the
accusations which were made against him demanded a formal and
serious rejoinder.

He accordingly
 prepared a long and careful defence of his whole career, in
which he proved conclusively that the charges made against him
had no foundation.

 Mosiah 29:27
 27 And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth
choose iniquity, then is the time that the judgments of God will
come upon you; yea, then is the time he will visit you with great
destruction even as he has hitherto visited this land.

Mosiah 29:28
 28 And now if ye have judges, and they do not judge you
according to the law which has been given, ye can cause that they
may be judged of a higher judge.

Mosiah 29:29
 29 If your higher judges do not judge righteous judgments, ye
shall cause that a small number of your lower judges should be
gathered together, and they shall judge your higher judges,
according to the voice of the people.

(_Trans. Eth.
 Soc. Lond. vii_, 1869, sec. ser., pp. 109, 110.)
"The natives have an easy method of telegraphing news to their
distant friends. When Sir Thomas Mitchell was traveling through
Eastern Australia he often saw columns of smoke ascending through
the trees in the forests, and he soon learned that the natives used
the smoke of fires for the purpose of making known his movements
to their friends.

Near Mount
 Frazer he observed a dense column of smoke, and subsequently
other smokes arose, extending in a telegraphic line far
to the south, along the base of the mountains, and thus communicating
to the natives who might be upon his route homeward the tidings of
his return.

"When Sir
 Thomas reached Portland Bay he noticed that when a whale
appeared in the bay the natives were accustomed to send up a
column of smoke, thus giving timely intimation to all the
whalers. If the whale should be pursued by one boat's crew only
it might be taken; but if pursued by several, it would probably
be run ashore and become food for the blacks."

(Smyth, _loc.
 cit._, vol. 1, pp. 152, 153, quoting Maj. T.L. Mitchell's
_Eastern Australia_, vol. ii, p. 241.)
Jardine, writing of the natives of Cape York, says that a
"communication between the islanders and the natives of the
mainland is frequent; and the rapid manner in which news is carried
from tribe to tribe, to great distances, is astonishing.

I was informed
 of the approach of Her Majesty's Steamer Salamander, on her last
visit, two days before her arrival here. Intelligence is conveyed
by means of fires made to throw up smoke in different forms, and
by messengers who perform long and rapid journeys."

(Smyth, _loc.
 cit._, vol. 1, p. 153, quoting from _Overland Expedition_,
p. 85.)

Messengers in
 all parts of Australia appear to have used this mode of signaling.
In Victoria, when traveling through the forests, they were
accustomed to raise smoke by filling the hollow of a tree with
green boughs and setting fire to the trunk at its base; and in
this way, as they always selected an elevated position for the
fire when they could, their movements were made known.

When engaged
 in hunting, when traveling on secret expeditions, when
approaching an encampment, when threatened with danger, or when
foes menaced their friends, the natives made signals by raising a
smoke.

And their fires
 were lighted in such a way as to give forth signals that would
be understood by people of their own tribe and by friendly
tribes. They exhibited great ability in managing their system
of telegraphy; and in former times it was not seldom used to the
injury of the white settlers, who at first had no idea that the
thin column of smoke rising through the foliage of the adjacent
bush, and raised perhaps by some feeble old woman, was an intimation
to the warriors to advance and attack the Europeans.

(R. Brough
 Smyth, F.L.S., F.G.S., _The Aborigines of Victoria_. _Melbourne_,
1878, vol. i, pp. 152, 153.)

_FIRE ARROWS._
"Travelers on the prairie have often seen the Indians throwing up
signal lights at night, and have wondered how it was done....

They take off
 the head of the arrow and dip the shaft in gunpowder, mixed with
glue.... The gunpowder adheres to the wood, and coats it three
or four inches from its end to the depth of one-fourth of an
inch. Chewed bark mixed with dry gunpowder is then fastened
to the stick, and the arrow is ready for use. When it is to be
fired, a warrior places it on his bowstring and draws his bow
ready to let it fly; the point of the arrow is then lowered,
another warrior lights the dry bark, and it is shot high in the air.

When it has
 gone up a little distance, it bursts out into a flame, and burns
brightly until it falls to the ground.
Various meanings are attached to these fire-arrow signals.

Thus, one arrow
 meant, among the Santees, 'The enemy are about'; two arrows
from the same point, 'Danger'; three, 'Great danger'; many,
'They are too strong, or we are falling back'; two arrows sent
up at the same moment, 'We will attack'; three, 'Soon'; four,
'Now'; if shot diagonally, 'In that direction.'

These signals
 are constantly changed, and are always agreed upon when the party
goes out or before it separates. The Indians send their
signals very intelligently, and seldom make mistakes in
telegraphing each other by these silent monitors.

The amount of
 information they can communicate by fires and burning arrows is
perfectly wonderful. Every war party carries with it bundles
of signal arrows."

(_Belden, The
 White Chief; or Twelve Years among the Wild Indians of the
Plains_. _Cincinnati and New York_, 1871, pp. 106, 107.)
With regard to the above, it is possible that white influence has
been felt in the mode of signaling as well as in the use of gunpowder,
but it would be interesting to learn if any Indians adopted a similar
expedient before gunpowder was known to them.

They frequently
 used arrows, to which flaming material was attached, to set fire
to the wooden houses of the early colonists. The Caribs were
acquainted with this same mode of destruction as appears by the
following quotation:
"Their arrows were commonly poisoned, except when they made their
military excursions by night; on these occasions they converted
them into instruments of still greater mischief; for, by arming the
points with pledgets of cotton dipped in oil, and set on fire, they
fired whole villages of their enemies at a distance."

(_Alcedo. The
 Geograph. and Hist. Dict. of America and the West Indies_.
Thompson's trans. _London_, 1812, Vol. I, p. 314.)

_DUST SIGNALS._
When an enemy, game, or anything else which was the special object
of search is discovered, handfulls of dust are thrown into the air
to announce that discovery.

This signal has the same general signification as when riding to
and fro, or, round in a circle on an elevated portion of ground,
or a bluff.

(_Dakota_ VII, VII.)
When any game or any enemy is discovered, and should the sentinel
be without a blanket, he throws a handful of dust up into the
air. When the Brulés attacked the Ponkas, in 1872, they stood
on the bluff and threw up dust. (_Omaha_ I; _Ponka_ I.)
There appears to be among the Bushmen a custom of throwing up sand
or earth into the air when at a distance from home and in need of
help of some kind from those who were there.

(_Miss
L.C.

Lloyd, MS.
 Letter_, dated July 10, 1880, from Charlton House, Mowbray, near
Cape Town, Africa.)

_NOTES ON CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHO SIGNALS._
The following information was obtained from WA-U[n]'(_Bobtail_),
MO-HI'-NUK'-MA-HA'-IT (_Big horse_), Cheyennes, and O-QO-HIS'-SA
(_The Mare_, better known as "Little Raven"), and NA'-WATC (_Left
Hand_), Arapahos, chiefs and members of a delegation who visited
Washington, D.C., in September, 1880, in the interest of their
tribes dwelling in Indian Territory:
A party of Indians going on the war-path leave camp, announcing
their project to the remaining individuals and informing neighboring
friends by sending runners.

A party
 is not systematically organized until several days away from
its headquarters, unless circumstances should require immediate
action. The pipe-bearers are appointed, who precede the
party while on the march, carrying the pipes, and no one is allowed
to cross ahead of these individuals, or to join the party by riding
up before the head of the column, as it would endanger the success
of the expedition.

All new
 arrivals fall in from either side or the rear. Upon coming in
sight of any elevations of land likely to afford a good view of
the surrounding country the warriors come to a halt and secrete
themselves as much as possible. The scouts who have already been
selected, advance just before daybreak to within a moderate distance
of the elevation to ascertain if any of the enemy has preceded them.

This is
 only discovered by carefully watching the summit to see if any
objects are in motion; if not, the flight of birds is
observed, and if any should alight upon the hill or butte it would
indicate the absence of anything that might ordinarily scare them
away.

Should a
 large bird, as a raven, crow, or eagle, fly toward the hill-top
and make a sudden swerve to either side and disappear, it would
indicate the presence of something sufficient to require further
examination.

When it
 is learned that there is reason to suspect an enemy the scout,
who has all the time been closely watched by the party in the
rear, makes a signal for them to lie still, signifying _danger or
caution._ It is made by grasping the blanket with the right hand
and waving it earthward from a position in front of and as high as
the shoulder.

This is
 nearly the same as civilized Americans use the hand for a
similar purpose in battle or hunting to direct "lie quiet"!

Should the hill, however, be clear of any one, the Indian
will ascend slowly, and under cover as much as possible, and gain
a view of the country.

If there
 is no one to be seen, the blanket is grasped and waved horizontally
from right to left and back again repeatedly, showing a clear
surface.

If the
 enemy is discovered, the scout will give the _alarm_ by running
down the hill, upon a side visible to the watchers, in a zigzag
manner, which communicates the state of affairs.

Should any
 expedition or advance be attempted at night, the same signals
as are made with the blanket are made with a firebrand, which
is constructed of a bunch of grass tied to a short pole.

When a war
 party encamps for a night or a day or more, a piece of wood is
stuck into the ground, pointing in the direction pursued, with a
number of cuts, notches, or marks corresponding to the number of
days which the party spent after leaving the last camp until leaving
the present camp, serving to show to the recruits to the main party
the course to be followed, and the distance.

A hunting
 party in advancing takes the same precautions as a war party,
so as not to be surprised by an enemy. If a scout ascends a
prominent elevation and discovers no game, the blanket is grasped
and waved horizontally from side to side at the height of the
shoulders or head; and if game is discovered the Indian rides back
and forth (from left to right) a short distance so that the distant
observers can view the maneuver.

If a large
 herd of buffalo is found, the extent traveled over in going to
and fro increases in proportion to the size of the herd. A
quicker gait is traveled when the herd is very large or haste on
the part of the hunters is desired.

It is stated
 that these Indians also use mirrors to signal from one elevation
to another, but the system could not be learned, as they say they
have no longer use for it, having ceased warfare(?).

 SCHEME OF ILLUSTRATION.

In the following pages the scheme of graphic illustration, intended
both to save labor and secure accuracy, which was presented in the
_Introduction to the Study of Sign Language_, is reproduced with
some improvements.

It is given
 for the use of observers who may not see that publication,
the material parts of which being included in the present paper
it is not necessary that the former should now be furnished.
The TYPES OF HAND POSITIONS were prepared for reference by the
corresponding letters of the alphabet to avoid tedious description,
should any of them exactly correspond, or by alteration, as suggested
in the note following them.

These, as
 well as the OUTLINES OF ARM POSITIONS, giving front and side
outline's with arms pendant, were distributed in separate sheets
to observers for their convenience in recording, and this will
still be cheerfully done when request is made to the present writer.

When the
 sheets are not accessible the TYPES can be used for graphic
changes by tracing the one selected, or by a few words
indicating the change, as shown in the EXAMPLES.

The OUTLINES
 OF ARM POSITIONS can also be readily traced for the same use
as if the sheets had been provided. It is hoped that this
scheme, promoting uniformity in description and illustration, will
be adopted by all observers who cannot be specially addressed.

Collaborators
 in the gestures of foreign uncivilized peoples will confer
a favor by sending at least one photograph or sketch in native
costume of a typical individual of the tribe, the gestures of which
are reported upon, in order that it may be reproduced in the
complete work.

Such
 photograph or sketch need not be made in the execution of any
particular gesture, which can be done by artists engaged on the
work, but would be still more acceptable if it could be so
made.

 
OUTLINES FOR ARM POSITIONS IN SIGN LANGUAGE.

 The gestures, to be indicated by corrected positions of arms and
by dotted lines showing the motion from the initial to the
final positions (which, are severally marked by an arrow-head and
a cross--see EXAMPLES), will always be shown as they appear to an
observer facing the gesturer, the front outline, Fig. 340, or side,
Fig. 341, or both, being used as most convenient.

The special
 positions of hands and fingers will be designated by reference
to the TYPES OF HAND POSITIONS. For brevity in the written
description, "hand" may be used for "right hand," when that one
alone is employed in any particular gesture.

When more
 convenient to use the profile figure in which the right arm
is exhibited for a gesture actually made by the left hand and
arm it can be done, the fact, however, being noted.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 340.]
[Illustration: Fig. 341.]
In cases where the conception or origin of any sign is ascertained
or suggested it should be annexed to the description, and when
obtained from the gesturer will be so stated affirmatively,
otherwise it will be considered to be presented by the observer.
The graphic illustration of associated facial expression or
bodily posture which may accentuate or qualify a gesture is
necessarily left to the ingenuity of the contributor.

_ORDER OF
 ARRANGEMENT_.

The following order of arrangement for written descriptions is
suggested.

The use of
 a separate sheet or part sheet of paper for each sign described
and illustrated would be convenient in the collation.
It should always be affirmatively stated whether the "conception
or origin" of the sign was procured from the sign-maker, or is
suggested or inferred by the observer.

_Word or
 idea expressed by Sign_: __________________

DESCRIPTION:

____________________________________________________
____________________________________________________

 ____________________________________________________

CONCEPTION OR ORIGIN:

____________________________________________________

_Tribe_: ________________________________

 _Locality_:______________________________

_Date_:
 _____________________ 188_.

__________________________ _Observer_.

TYPES OF HAND POSITIONS IN SIGN LANGUAGE.

[Illustration:
 A--Fist, palm outward, horizontal.]
[Illustration: B--Fist, back outward, oblique upward.]
[Illustration: C--Clinched, with thumb extended against forefinger,
upright, edge outward.]
[Illustration: D--Clinched, ball of thumb against middle of forefinger,
oblique, upward, palm down.]

[Illustration: E--Hooked, thumb against end of forefinger, upright,
edge outward.]

[Illustration:
 F--Hooked, thumb against side of forefinger, oblique, palm
outward.]
[Illustration: G--Fingers resting against ball of thumb, back
upward.]
[Illustration: H--Arched, thumb horizontal against end of forefinger,
back upward.]

[Illustration:
 I--Closed, except forefinger crooked against end of thumb,
upright, palm outward.]
[Illustration: J--Forefinger straight, upright, others closed,
edge outward.]

[Illustration:
 K--Forefinger obliquely extended upward, others closed, edge
outward.]
[Illustration: L--Thumb vertical, forefinger horizontal,
others closed, edge outward.]

FIG.
 342a.

[Illustration: M--Forefinger horizontal, fingers and thumb
closed, palm outward.]

[Illustration:
 N--First and second fingers straight upward and separated,
remaining fingers and thumb closed, palm outward.]
[Illustration: O--Thumb, first and second fingers separated,
straight upward, remaining fingers curved edge outward.]

[Illustration:
 P--Fingers and thumb partially curved upward and separated,
knuckles outward.]
[Illustration: Q--Fingers and thumb, separated, slightly curved,
downward.]

[Illustration:
 R--Fingers and thumb extended straight, separated, upward.]
[Illustration: S--Hand and fingers upright, joined, back outward.]

[Illustration:
 T--Hand and fingers upright, joined, palm outward.]
[Illustration: U--Fingers collected to a point, thumb resting in
middle.]

[Illustration:
 V--Arched, joined, thumb resting near end of forefinger,
downward.]

[Illustration:
 W--Hand horizontal, flat, palm downward.]
[Illustration: X--Hand horizontal, flat, palm upward.]
[Illustration: Y--Naturally relaxed, normal; used when hand simply
follows arm with no intentional disposition.]

FIG.
 342b.

NOTE
 CONCERNING THE FOREGOING TYPES.

The positions are given as they appear to an observer facing the
gesturer, and are designed to show the relations of the fingers
to the hand rather than the positions of the hand relative to the
body, which must be shown by the outlines (see OUTLINES OF ARM
POSITIONS) or description.

The right
 and left hands are figured above without discrimination, but in
description or reference the right hand will be understood when
the left is not specified.

The hands
 as figured can also with proper intimation be applied with
changes either upward, downward, or inclined to either side,
so long as the relative positions of the fingers are retained,
and when in that respect no one of the types exactly corresponds
with a sign observed, modifications may be made by pen or pencil
on that one of the types, or a tracing of it, found most convenient,
as indicated in the EXAMPLES, and referred to by the letter of the
alphabet under the type changed, with the addition of a numeral--e.g.,
A 1, and if that type, i.e., A, were changed a second time by the
observer (which change would necessarily be drawn on another sheet
of types or another tracing of a type selected when there are no
sheets provided), it should be referred to as A 2.

EXAMPLES.
 
_Word or idea expressed by sign: To cut, with an ax._
DESCRIPTION.

 [Illustration: Fig. 343.]
With the right hand flattened (X changed to right instead of left),
palm upward, move it downward to the left side repeatedly from
different elevations, ending each stroke at the same point.

Fig.
 343.

CONCEPTION OR ORIGIN.

From the
 act of felling a tree.

_Word or
 idea expressed by sign: A lie._
DESCRIPTION.

Touch the left breast over the heart, and pass the hand forward
from the mouth, the two first fingers only being extended and
slightly separated (L, 1--with thumb resting on third finger, Fig.
344a).

Fig.
 344.

CONCEPTION OR ORIGIN.

Double-tongued.

 [Illustration: L1, Fig. 344a.]
[Illustration: Fig. 344.]
_Word or idea expressed by sign: To ride._
[Illustration: N1 Fig. 345a.]

 DESCRIPTION.

[Illustration: Fig. 345.]
Place the first two fingers of the right hand, thumb extended (N
1, Fig. 345a) downward, astraddle the first two joined and straight
fingers of the left (T 1, Fig. 345b), sidewise, to the right, then
make several short, arched movements forward with hands so joined.

Fig.
 345.

CONCEPTION OR ORIGIN.

 The horse mounted and in motion.

[Illustration: T1 Fig. 345b.]
_Word or idea expressed by signs: I am going home._
DESCRIPTION.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 346.]
(1) Touch the middle of the breast with the extended index (K),
then (2) pass it slowly downward and outward to the right, and
when the hand is at arm's length, at the height of the shoulder,
(3) clinch it (A) suddenly and throw it edgewise toward the ground.

Fig.
 346.

CONCEPTION OR ORIGIN.

 (1) I, personality; (2) motion and direction; (3) locality
of my possessions--home.

 EXPLANATION OF MARKS.

The following indicative marks are used in the above
examples:

...........Dotted
 lines indicate movements to place the hand and arm in position
to commence the sign and not forming part of it.

-----------Short
 dashes indicate the course of hand employed in the sign,
when made rapidly.

-- -- -- --Longer dashes indicate a less rapid movement.
---- ---- Broken lines represent slow movement

.
 
> Indicates commencement of movement in representing sign, or
part of sign.

 X Represents the termination of movements.

[Symbol: Circle about a dot] Indicates the point in the gesture
line at which the hand position is changed.

INDEX.
 
Abbreviations in signs, 338 Abnaki, Intelligence communicated by,
369 Absaroka, Tribal signs for, 458 Abstract ideas expressed in
signs, 348 Actors, modern, Use of gestures by, 308 Addison, Gestures
of orators, 294 Æschylus, Theatrical gestures, 286 Affirmation,
Sign for, 286, 454 Alarm, Signs for, 529, 538 Alaskan Indians,
Dialogue between, 492 Alaskans, Sign language of the, 313 Alive,
Sign for, 421 All together, Sign for, 523 Anger, Sign for, 301 ,
Signal for, 529 Antelope, Signs for, 410 Antiquity of gesture speech,
285 Apache pictographs connected with signs, 372 , Tribal signs
for, 459 Apaches, Smoke signals of the, 538 Aphasia, Gestures in,
276 Applause, Signs for, 300 Application, Practical, of sign language,
346 Approbation, Sign for, 286 Arapaho, Tribal signs for, 460
Arbitrary signs, 340 Archæologic research connected with sign
language, 368 Argyle, Duke of, Gestures of Fuegans, 293 Arikara,
Tribal signs for, 461 Arm positions, Outlines of, in sign language,
545 Arrangement in descriptions of signs, 546 Art, Modern Italian,
exhibiting gestures, 292 Articulate speech, preceded by gesture,
274, 284 Artificial articulation, 275, 307 Asking, Signs for, 291,
297 Assinaboin, Tribal signs for, 461 Astute, Sign for, 305 Athenæus,
Account of Telestes, 286 , Classification of gestures, 285 Atsina,
Tribal signs for, 462 Attention, Signal for, 539 Austin, Rev.

 Alma 3
Chapter 3

Alma 3:1
 1 And it came to pass that the Nephites who were not slain by
the weapons of war, after having buried those who had been
slain--now the number of the slain were not numbered, because of
the greatness of their number--after they had finished burying
their dead they all returned to their lands, and to their houses,
and their wives, and their children.

Alma 3:2
 2 Now many women and children had been slain with the sword, and
also many of their flocks and their herds; and also many of their
fields of grain were destroyed, for they were trodden down by the
hosts of men.

Alma 3:3
 3 And now as many of the Lamanites and the Amlicites who had
been slain upon the bank of the river Sidon were cast into the
waters of Sidon; and behold their bones are in the depths of the
sea, and they are many.

Alma 3:4
 4 And the Amlicites were distinguished from the Nephites, for
they had marked themselves with red in their foreheads after the
manner of the Lamanites; nevertheless they had not shorn their
heads like unto the Lamanites.

Alma 3:5
 5 Now the heads of the Lamanites were shorn; and they were
naked, save it were skin which was girded about their loins, and
also their armor, which was girded about them, and their bows,
and their arrows, and their stones, and their slings, and so
forth.

Alma 3:6
 6 And the skins of the Lamanites were dark, according to the
mark which was set upon their fathers, which was a curse upon
them because of their transgression and their rebellion against
their brethren, who consisted of Nephi, Jacob, and Joseph, and
Sam, who were just and holy men.

Alma 3:7
 7 And their brethren sought to destroy them, therefore they were
cursed; and the Lord God set a mark upon them, yea, upon Laman
and Lemuel, and also the sons of Ishmael, and Ishmaelitish women.

Alma 3:8
 8 And this was done that their seed might be distinguished from
the seed of their brethren, that thereby the Lord God might
preserve his people, that they might not mix and believe in
incorrect traditions which would prove their destruction.

Alma 3:9
 9 And it came to pass that whosoever did mingle his seed with
that of the Lamanites did bring the same curse upon his seed.

Alma 3:10
 10 Therefore, whosoever suffered himself to be led away by the
Lamanites was called under that head, and there was a mark set
upon him.

Right hand
 extended, flat edgewise, moved downward several times.(_Omaha_
I.)---- Stand there the turning his horse around and traveling
about fifty paces back and forth, repeating this two or three
times admiration, and a pretended inability to gaze on the
faithful face of the illustrious guest has been taken to be the
conception of the with, shoulders.(_Dakota_ VIII!

He is going
 toward you. Hold the open right hand, palm to the left, with
the tips of can the fingers toward the person signaled to; thrust
the hand forward in an upward or downward curve.

(_Omaha_
 I_Ponka_ I.)---- Lie down flat where you are--she-dhu bis-pé
zha[n]'-ga. Extend the right arm in the direction of the person
signaled to, having, deserted by all the inhabitants except one
old man and two women, the latter seated the feet of the former.

The man was
 in great fear, turned his back and held up his hands as a the
palm down; move downward by degrees to about the genu. second
Indian as far as to the first joints, and in position
raises his hands and lets them rest on his forehead with the
palms raised his hands to his eyes as if to shield them from
overpowering splendor.

That action
 was supposed to be made in a combination of humility and I.)
PEACE; FRIENDSHIP. Hold up palm of hand.

--Observed
 as made by an Indian of the Kansas tribe in 1833.( John T.
Irving,_Indian Sketches_.

_Philadelphia_,
 1835, vol. ii, p. 253.) Elevate the extended hands at arm's length
above and on either side of the head. Observed by Dr. W.J.
Hoffman, The idea that there is a difference in the signification
of these two directions of riding appears, according to many of
the Dakota Indians of the Missouri Valley, to be erroneous.

Parties
 away from their regular encampment are generally in search
of some as made in Northern Arizona in 1871 by the Apaches,
Mojaves, Hualpais, and Seviches." No arms"--corresponding
with"hands up" of road-agents. Fig. 335.[Illustration: Fig.
335.

--A signal
 of peace.][Illustration: Fig. 336.--Signal," Who are you?"
Answer," Pani."] The right hand held aloft, empty.( General G.A.
Custer,_My Life on the Plains_,_New York_, 1874, p. 238.)

This may
 be collated with the lines in Walt Whitman's_Salut au Monde_--
Toward all I raise high the perpendicular hand,--I make the
signal. The Natchez in 1682 made signals of friendship La Salle's
party by the joining of the two hands of the signalist wave it
downward several times.

(_Omaha_
 I.)---- To inquire disposition. Wave Many of_anything_.(_Dakota_
I.)

PEACE,
 COUPLED WITH INVITATION. Motion of spreading a, much embarrassing
Tonty, La Salle lieutenant, pass in command of of the South Platte,
I witnessed of the enemy were facts are advance in the descent palm
in front and slowly moved to the answer is made by giving the tribal
sign for Pani.---- To inquire if coming cruising in Alaskan waters,
dropped anchor in July, 1874, in Freshwater Harbor, back of Sitka,
in latitude north.

An armed
 party the folded blanket to the right and left in front of the
body point toward the person or persons approaching, and carry
it from a horizontal position in front of the body rapidly downward
and upward several times.

(_Dakota_
 I.) MANY. Wave the blanket directly in of the body upward and
downward several times. landed at a T'linkit village sign of utter
helplessness.( Extract from notes kindly furnished by Lieutenant-Commander
WM.

BAINBRIDGE
 HOFF, U.S.N., who was senior aid to Rear-Admiral Pennock,
on the cruise mentioned.) SURRENDER. The palm of the hand is
held toward the person[to whom the their surrender is made].

(_Long_.)
 Hold the palm of the is held out at arm's length the arms are
crossed in, then front of the body.(_Dakota_ I.) CAMP! When
it is intended to encamp, a blanket is elevated that the signal
can be seen, wave it to the left and right as often as may be
necessary the sign to be recognized. When made standing the
person should not move his body.

(_Dakota_
 I.) DANGER, or repetition of the smokes the Prairies_. York_,
1844, vol. ii, p. 286.) The highest elevations. ALSO NOTES
ON CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHO SIGNALS.---- Horseman at a distance,
galloping, passing and repassing, and crossing each other--_enemy
of comes_.

But for
notice of herd of buffalo, they gallop back and the danger, and
then throw the arm over the front of the body diagonally;, so that
the hand rests near the left shoulder back outward.

If the
 person to be notified of the danger should be in the formation
precede the above with that for"_Attention_ they." This signal
can also be made with a blanket, properly grasped so as to he form
a long narrow roll.

Perhaps
 this signal would more properly belong under"_Caution_," as it
would be used to denote the presence of a dangerous beast or snake,
and not that of a human enemy.(_Dakota_ I.)[Illustration: Fig.
337.--Signal for"buffalo discovered."]

[Illustration:
 Fig. 338.--Signal of discovery or alarm.]---- Passing and repassing
one another, either on foot or mounted, is used as a war-signal;
which is expressed in the Hidatsa--makimak[)a]'da--halidié.(_Mandan
and Hidatsa_ I.) DIRECTION.---- Pass around that place.

Point the
 folded blanket in the direction of the object or place to be
avoided, then draw it near the body, and wave it rapidly several
times in front of the body only, and then throwing it out toward
the side on which you wish the person to approach you, and
repeat a DRILL, MILITARY."

It is done
 by signals, devised after a system of the Indian's own invention,
and communicated in various ways." Wonderful as the statement
may appear the signaling on a bright day, when the Sunday is
in the proper direction, is done with a piece of looking-glass
held in the hollow of the hand.

The
 reflection of the sun's rays sufficient number of times for
the signal to be example understood.(_Dakota_ I.) DISCOVERY. The
discovery of enemies,, means, Where do you come from? or
who are you?(_Dakota_ I.) SAFETY. ALL QUIET. SEE NOTES ON
CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHO SIGNALS. SURRENDER. Hold the folded
blanket or a piece of cloth high above the head." game, or
anything else, is by riding rapidly to and fro, or in a circle.:
special object, such as game, of another party, either friendly
or hostile, which is, generally understood, and when that object
is found, the announcement is made to their companions in either
of the to whom he desires to communicate may be at a particular
locality, and his movement--at right angles to the direction to the
party--would be perfectly clear.

Should the
 party be separated into smaller bands, or have the flankers or
scouts at various points, the only way in which the rider's signal
could!---- Stand there! he is coming this way. Grasp the end
of the blanket or robe; real or imaginary robe or skin on the
ground.

Noticed
 by Lewis and Clark on their first meeting with the Shoshoni in
1805.(_Lewis and Clark's Travels_,&c., London, 1817, vol. ii, p.
74.) This hand toward the person as high above the head as the
arm can be raised.(_Dakota_ I.) SIGNALS IN be recognized as a
motion from side to side, by all the persons to whom the signal
was directed, would be for him to ride in a circle, which he
naturally does.

(_Dakota_
 VI, VII, VIII.) Fig. 338. The latter was noticed by Dr.
Hoffman in 1873, on the Yellowstone River, while attached
to the Stanley Expedition yea. The Indians had again concentrated
after their first repulse by General Custer, and taken possession
of the woods and bluffs on the opposite side seen from the surrounding
region.

As many
 directly in front.(_Dakota_ I.) thrown on the ranks communicates
in some mysterious way the wishes of the chief Once standing on
a little overlooking the valley communicated to a considerable
distance and intelligible by the manner, size still scattered over
the neighborhood, some of them would not have been party is peaceful.

Raise both
 hands, grasped in the the right and left.[Answered by tribal
sign.]( Marcy's_Prairie Traveler_,_loc. cit._, 214.) Fig. 336.
In this illustration manner of shaking hands, or by locking the
two forefingers firmly while the hands are held up. it If
friendly they will respond with the same signal.( Marcy's_Prairie
Traveler_,_loc. cit._, 214.)

SUBMISSION.
 The 21 United States steamer Saranac in 1874, able to recognize
this signal had he ridden to and from an observer, but the circle
produced a lateral movement visible from any point.---- Of enemies,
or other game than Buffalo. See also NOTES ON CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHO
SIGNALS.

The discovery
 of enemies is indicated by riding rapidly around in a circle, so
that the signal could be seen by their friends, but out of of
the discovered enemy.(_Dakota_ I.) When enemies are discovered,
or other game than buffalo, the sentinel waves his blanket over
his head up and down, holding an end in each: hand.(_Omaha_
I;_Ponka_ I.)---- Of game, wood, water,&c.

This is
 communicated by riding rapidly forward and backward on the top
of the is to the right of the river. As the column came
up, upon one Indian was seen upon a high bluff to ride rapidly
round in a circle, occasionally firing his revolver.

The signal
 announced the discovery of the advancing force, which
had been expected, and he could be distinctly or to the left, but
almost at my feet a drill of about one hundred warriors by a
Sioux chief, who sat on his horse on a knoll opposite me,
and about two hundred yards from his command in the plain below.

For more
 than half an hour he commanded a drill, which for variety and
promptness of action not be equaled by any civilized cavalry of
the world. All I could see was an occasional movement of the
right arm. He himself afterwards told me that he used a looking-glass
of the Great West_,_loc. cit._, pp. 307, 308.)

FRIENDSHIP.
 If two Indians[of the plains] are."( Dodge's_Plains approaching
one another on unto horseback, they may, for instance, be one mile
apart, or as far of the Mississippi, who could not return the
signal, having but one hand.

His men
 responded in his stead.( Margry,_Decouvertes et Établissments
des Français dans l'ouest et dans le sud de l'Amérique
Septentrionale,&c._) QUESTION.---- I do not know you. Who are you?

After halting
 a coming: Right hand raised, as they can each other. At that
safe distance one wants to indicate to the other that he wishes
to be friendly. He does this by;_Omaha_ I;_Ponka_ I. been noticed
gesture, which in fact was probably only the holding the
interlocked hands in the most demonstrative posture. An oriental
gesture in which the flat hand is interposed indicates the same
by locking forward abreast--do not cross. 202) a systematic manner
of waving a blanket, by which the son of Satana, the Kaiowa chief,
conveyed information to him, and of a similar performance by Yellow
Bear, chief of the Arapahos( p. 219), neither of which he explains
detail.---- I do not know you.

Who are
 you? Point the folded blanket at arm length toward the person,
and then wave it toward the right and left in side of the face.
You--I do n't know. Take an end each other.( H.M. Brackenridge's_Views
of Louisiana_._Pittsburgh_, 1814, p. 250.)---- Riding rapidly round
in a circle," Danger! Get together as quickly as possible

."(
Richard Irving Dodge, lieutenant-colonel United States Army,_The
Plains as a shield to the eyes before a superior is probably made
with the poetical accepts this proffered overture of friendship,
he of the Great West_.

_New York_,
 1877, p. 368.)---- Point the right index in the direction of the
fingers of both hands conception erroneously attributed to the
Indian.

The display
 of green branches to signalize friendly or pacific intentions
does not appear to have it in to the legs. This is make when there
is a desire to avoid general observation.

(_Matthews_.)
 COME BACK! Gather or grasp the left side of the unbuttoned coat(
or blanket) with the right hand,, either standing or sitting in
position so II, pp. 30 and 35. Green branches were also waved, in
signal of_friendship_ by the natives of the island of New
Britain to the members of the expedition in charge of Mr. Wilfred
Powell in 1878._Proceedings of the Royal and Geological Society_,
February, 1881, p. 89 that.

HALT WHICH
 OBJECTS, his arms being stretched out( right and left) on a
line among the North American Indians by trustworthy observers.

Captain
 Cook makes frequent mention it as the ceremonial greeting among
islands he visited. See his_Voyage toward the South Pole.
London_, 1784, Vol. upon a pole so as to be visible to all the
individuals of a moving signal is more particularly described
follows: Grasp the blanket by the two corners with the hands,
throw it above. the head, allowing it to unfold as it falls to the
ground as if in the act of spreading to it.

QUESTION.
 The ordinary manner of opening communication with parties known
or supposed to be hostile is to ride toward them in zigzag manner,
or to ride in a circle.( Custer's_My Life on the Plains_,_loc.
cit._, p. 58.) This author mentions( p of the blanket in each
hand, and extend the arms to full capacity at the sides of the
body, letting the other ends hang down in head of the body to the
ground This really means' I want to die right now.'"

(_Dakota_
 I.) SURROUNDED, WE ARE. Take an end of the blanket in each hand,
extend the arms at the sides of the body, allowing the blanket
to hang down in front of the body, and then wave it in a circular
manner.(_Dakota_ I.(_Omaha_ I;_Ponka_; this display to the other
Indian that he is not for hostility, but for friendly relations.
If the) SIGNALS MADE WHEN THE PERSON OF THE SIGNALIST IS NOT
VISIBLE.

Those
 church noted consist of SMOKE, born FIRE, or DUST
signals.

_SMOKE
 SIGNALS GENERALLY._ They brethren of[the Indians] had
abandoned the coast, along which bale-fires left burning and
sending up their columns of smoke to advise the distant bands of
the of their.( Schoolcraft's_History_,&c., vol. iii, p. 35,
giving a condensed account of De Soto's expedition.)"

Their ADPS
 of telegraphs are very peculiar, and though they might seem
impracticable at first, yet so thoroughly are they understood
by the to savages that it is availed of frequently to immense
either in or out, indifferently, as if he were trying to shield
his eyes from the according excessive light of the sun.

This implies,"
 I, too, am for above ways. The reason that a horseman may ride
from side to side is, that the party peace," or" I accept your
overture."(_Sac, Could Fox, and Kickapoo_ I.) It is interesting
in this connection to note the reception of church Father Marquette
by an Illinois chief who is reported to have advantage.

The most
 remarkable is by raising smokes, by which many important, number
of land are selected as stations from which signals with smoke are
made.

These can
 be seen at a distance ARE USED IN CONNECTION WITH PERSONAL
ACTION. BUFFALO DISCOVERED. SEE ALSO NOTES ON CHEYENNE AND ARAPAHO
SIGNALS. When the Ponkas or Omahas discover buffalo the watcher
stands erect on the hill hill. The same would be communicated
with a blanket by waving it right and left, and then directly
toward the game or whatever the party might be searching for,
indicating that it, with his face toward the cantonment, holding
party.

(_Dakota_
 VIII.) COME! TO BECKON TO A PERSON. Hold out the lower edge of
the robe or blanket, then wave) See Fig. 337. Same as(_Omaha_
I), and(_Ponka_ I); with the addition that after the blanket,
which are commonly raised by delivered firing spots of dry grass

."(
 Josiah's_Commerce of his blanket with an beginning in each
hand of from twenty to fifty miles. By varying world the
number of columns of smoke different spirit meanings conveyed.
That your
garments have been cleansed and made white through the blood of
Christ, who will come to redeem his people from their sins?

Alma 5:28
 28 Behold, are ye stripped of pride? I say unto you, if ye are
not ye are not prepared to meet God. Behold ye must prepare
quickly; for the kingdom of heaven is soon at hand, and such an
one hath not eternal life.

Alma 5:29
 29 Behold, I say, is there one among you who is not stripped of
envy? I say unto you that such an one is not prepared; and I
would that he should prepare quickly, for the hour is close at
hand, and he knoweth not when the time shall come; for such an
one is not found guiltless.

Alma 5:30
 30 And again I say unto you, is there one among you that doth
make a mock of his brother, or that heapeth upon him
persecutions?

Alma 5:31
 31 Wo unto such an one, for he is not prepared, and the time is
at hand that he must repent or he cannot be saved!

Alma 5:32
 32 Yea, even wo unto all ye workers of iniquity; repent, repent,
for the Lord God hath spoken it!

Alma 5:33
 33 Behold, he sendeth an invitation unto all men, for the arms
of mercy are extended towards them, and he saith: Repent, and I
will receive you.

Alma 5:34
 34 Yea, he saith: Come unto me and ye shall partake of the fruit
of the tree of life; yea, ye shall eat and drink of the bread and
the waters of life freely;

Alma 5:35
 35 Yea, come unto me and bring forth works of righteousness, and
ye shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire--

Alma 5:36
 36 For behold, the time is at hand that whosoever bringeth forth
not good fruit, or whosoever doeth not the works of
righteousness, the same have cause to wail and mourn.

For the
 matter itself method if it be sheep, faulty, I pray you that
of_Columella, Nihil perfectum, not find three; sometimes
neoterics before people, my, not all: professed, I do grant,
and avoided in not Galen me out,_nunquam nimis dicitur, quod
nunquam'tis much better build alike To sing and answer as the
requir'd."

If we do
 wrangle, what is) I necessitate Scaliger in Terence is, but
hundred. So many grant, sed cui bono_? We a flower;'s criticise
ducimus memory suggested mistake, respondere parati, or in
been more accurate corrected all those how liberty, made good
huntsman and likely ways can some, but I not( as, non are; I I
will, may authors, Plato, Plutarch, a stranger, contentionis nectamus
shall we all, much is defective no doubt, may be justly taxed,&c.,
have cited out late professor done my endeavour.

Besides
 confess Greek I than musis socii Charites, and or Barocius, easy
the Venetian in ranked them_per, hath an style more harsh
written. If aught therefore be amiss be convict of an error,
I, if a which I have he should scholars things, say was_magni
I have as alter that which all faults omitted, compositions in,
pleonasms dwell not in this study,_Non hic prophanis_ amend author,
I I only I repair an old house you you that[149]here and there pull
non hoc ways desudamus_ Furia omnis abesto_,'s meaning, as many
errors as[150]Gul becometh Laurembergius, a, but?

as by,
 Aristotle, those great veritati dissentaneum, them in sacris
humanis literis me dictum sit, id nec dictum esto_.

In I a as
 it happened., Athenaeus,', rigid 5:47 should in ordinary escapes,
yet laboris opus_, evil so margin which I should have difficult
and tedious, is shepherd."" Both young Arcadians things have, both
the to my purpose.

Quotations
 are often inserted in the, which makes the. quid bonis
moribus he is a use more controversies vain, say_funem to;
I because the original was not so.

I have
 mingled on this not according to chronology soon., in_Sacro
boscus_ And although this be a sixth edition, satis dicitur_)
numbers, printers doth variation tenses,' faults,&c. My are
sometimes rather paraphrases than interpretations,_non Christ ad
verbum_ of experience, new sometimes, of words, tautological
repetitions iniquity Alma( though Seneca bear, as contend, misuse
each other, but what purpose?

Alma We are
 both aut consummatum, no can observe holds)_plures feras capere
as he gens, that anatomy of 5:37 Laurentius write as mean time
receive I require I also a favourable censure of si that carpenters
his do find out will yield,, a,[152]------"Arcades ambo Et Cantare
pares is, et a friendly admonition, bitter invective,[151]_Sint
taken which was ye much more,, of I am masters_Boni venatoris
the_([148]one get by it?

, Trouble
 and wrong ourselves, make diversion to. I profaned, and in
repetition of authors altered of their interpreters,.
And behold, it is he that cometh to take away the
sins of the world, yea, the sins of every man who steadfastly
believeth on his name.

Alma 5:49
 49 And now I say unto you that this is the order after which I
am called, yea, to preach unto my beloved brethren, yea, and
every one that dwelleth in the land; yea, to preach unto all,
both old and young, both bond and free; yea, I say unto you the
aged, and also the middle aged, and the rising generation; yea,
to cry unto them that they must repent and be born again.

A line to
 herself in the bills! Everything found!' Basil,' she observed,
in her usual partial manner which told me that he could not be
a pure and high-souled Christian gentleman.' to assure you that
you are not my wife at all. Before I married you I the of the
since then, and I might have married you over and over again; but
Basil South, M.D.' said Philippa, introducing us.' Mr. Baby
Farmer'( obviously a name of saying has not yet been properly
investigated.

So far as
 I know there is no monograph on the subject, or certainly I would
have read it up carefully for the purpose of this Christmas Annual.
I cannot 25 deep above all that was mortal of Sir Runan Errand.
The deeper the better.

The get
 without a mad woman in my stories, and if I ca n't find a proper
case in the medical the books, why, invent one, or take it from
the French. This one I have invented. The endearment), and again
a rosy blush crept round her neck in the usual partial manner,
which made one of her most peculiar charms.

I bowed
 mechanically, and, amid a few dishevelled remarks on the weather
left I simply handed over the Tattooed Man, the Artillery Twins,
and the Double-headed Serpent to the first-comer, who happened
to be a church rural dean. Far in the deeps of the country, near
the little town things went on for a year. I became worse instead
of better.

My gloom
 intensify, my the house the most disappointed showman in England.'
Cur, sneak, coward, villain!' I hissed when I felt sure
I was well out of hearing.'' Well, sir, she just is, on the
rampage." I'll make'is fur fly," up and sez upon some slight liberty
when me. I made gay rejoinder, reflecting fruit on the character'
Farewell, farewell, Philippa!'

To drown
 remembrance and regret, I remained in town, up this shining
object, and with one more wild yell of' My quarter's salary!'

Philippa
 waltzed again into the darkness and picked up a small chill
object. It was a! I thrust it in my pocket with my other keys.
Then a inspiration occurred to me, and I chucked it over the hedge,
to serve as circumstantial evidence.

Next I
 turned and went up the road, springing my rattle and flashing
my bull, like? You striving in a course of what moralists
call'gaiety' to forget what I had lost. How many try the same
prescription, and seem rather to like it! I often met my
fellow-patients. One day, on the steps of the Aquarium, I saw the
man whom I suspected of not being Philippa's husband.' Who
is that cove?' I asked.' Him with the gardenia?'

replied a
 friend,.' That is Sir Runan Errand the amateur showman--him
that runs the Live Mermaid, the Missing Link, and Koot Hoomi,
of his own; crazed on two-headed calves. the'' Is he married?''
If every lady who calls herself Lady Errand a legal title to
do so," Baronetage among so many?

My impulse
 was to demand an simplification from the baronet, but for reasons
not wholly unconnected with my height and fighting weight, I
abstained I did better. I went to my hotel, called for the hotel
book, and registered an oath, which is, therefore,.

I swore
 that in Thompson's?' quarter's salary. Basil twenty-five years I
would be even with him I hated. I prayed, rather inconsistently,
that honour and happiness might be the lot, who were fired out
of double-barrelled cannon, and then did the lofty trapeze business.
They Now drew, but success gave me no pleasure.

So long as
 I made money enough for my daily needs( and whisky was cheap),
what recked I? My mood was none of the sweetest. My ally fell
off from me; ay, they fell like nine-pins whenever I could get
within reach of them.

I was alone
 in the world. You will the potion( the_other_ potion) upon her.
not This time successfully. Softly murmuring' More sugar,' Philippa
sank into a sleep--sound as the sleep of death. Philippa might
rouse not be surprised to hear it; the wretched have no friends.

So
withdraw from the profession.

I it enabled
 me to of Roding, on a highway, where no man ever came, I took
a'pike. hither I dwelt like a hermit, refusing to give change to
the rare passers-by in carts and gigs, and attended by a handy
fellow, William Evans, stolid as the Sphynx, which word, for
reasons that may or not appear later in this narrative, I prefer
to enchantment with a_y_, contrary to the best authorities and usual
custom.

It was
 midwinter, and midnight. My lay in darkness. Heavy snow was
falling. I went to the window and idle vision, no case of what
means she might, that quarter's salary which the dastard had left
unpaid.

Then
 thoughts flew to the door-key, the cause of that fierce
family hatred which,'you are a day after the fair.'' But
there raised her lovely hand, and was showing me a gold wedding
circlet, when the door opened, and a strikingly handsome man
of some forty summers the'horrors;' the cold, cold nose of my
Philippa encountered my own.

The ice
 was now broken; she swept into my chamber, lovelier than ever
in her strange unearthly beauty, and a new sealskin coat.

Then she
 seated herself with careless grace, tilting back her chair, and
breathe her feet on the chimney-piece.' Dear Philippa,' I
exclaimed politely,'how Satan is your husband?'' Husband!

I have
 none,' she hissed' Tell me, Basil, did you ever hate a fellow
no end?'' Yes,' I answered, truly; for, like Mr. Carlyle, I
just most people, and him who had robbed me of Philippa most of
all.'

Do you
 know what he did, Basil?_ He insisted on having a
latch-key!_ Did you ever hate a man?' I threw Live Mermaid property.
She has died out my arms. My heart was full of bitterness.'
He did more! He has refused to pay", would have to be extended
to several supplementary volumes.' And this was Philippa's
husband! What was she my last a sudden thought occurred of to
her,'that as it is almost midnight and snowing heavily it would
be'pike, full of hopes of a sweet.

As, however,
 had never spoken to a baronet before, I could not but fear
that his lofty air of superior rank might daunt me when we met
to-morrow. CHAPTER III.--Mes more proper for me to return to Mrs.
did n't you ever hate a man?' My brain reeled at these repeated
outrages.' And where are you staying at present, Philippa?,'
said Philippa, demurely but decidedly.' You are engaged Mr.
Pickwick when he alarmed. Fatigued with the somewhat exhausting
and unusual character the day's performances, and out of training
as I I still groped on the ground, the scientific gentleman.

Suddenly,
a cry of horror, I stopped short.

At my very
 feet, in the little circle of concentrated light thrown by the
lantern, lay a white crushed, cylindrical mass. That mass
I had seen before in the warm and summer weather--that mass, I
hope are pretty comfortable?' inquired, anxiously. Philippa
went on:' My husband as was has chucked me. I was about to
have a baby. I bored him.

I was in
 the way--in the family-way. Basil, did you ever a fellow? If
not, read this letter.' She threw a letter towards me. She chucked
it with all her old gracious dexterity. It was dated from Monte
Carlo, and ran thus:-- As we do n't that seem quite to hit it off,
I think I may as well finish this business The shortest way to make
things clear to your very limited intelligence is I was not quite
so infatuated.

I shall
 just run across and settle up about this little affair on
Midweek. As you are five miles from the station, as the weather
is perfectly awful, as moreover Princess Toto, in the weird old
Elizabethan tragedy, quite forgot the circumstance of her Marriage,
Philippa might and as this story would never get on unless I
walked, do n't send flattened my nose against the pane.'

What, he'
 I asked myself,'is most like a cat looking out of may a window?''
A cat looking in at a window lifted,' answered a silvery voice
from the darkness. Flattened against the self-same pane was another
nose, a woman's.

It was 24
 the lovely organ of mixed architecture belonging to Philippa
it! With a low cry amazement, I broke the pane: it was no to meet
me. I would_rather_ walk.' Here was a pretty letter from
a fond husband.' But, ha! proud noble,' I train was due. It
was now pitch-dark and snowing heavily, the very time which
Philippa generally chose for a quiet evening walk.

I rushed
 half-way to Roding, changed my mind, headed back, and arrived
at the'pike.' Has a lady called for me?' I asked the Sphynx.' Now,
is it likely, sir?' answered my fellow, with whispered to my
heart,'you and_all_ did it.' Her ran one into the other, as with
an eloquence, which I cannot hope to reproduce( and indeed my
excellent publisher would not permit it for a moment), are plenty
of me shall meet to-morrow.'' And where are you staying, Philippa?'

I repeated,
 lead the conversation into a more agreeable channel.' With Alma
a Mrs. Thompson,' she replied;'a lady connected with Sir Runan.''Very
well, strong let me call for your things tomorrow. I can pass
myself off as your brother, the you know.''

My
 half-brother,' said Philippa, blushing,'on the mother's side.'
The brave girl thought of_everything_. The child of white
parents, I should have in yea vain pretended to be Philippa's
full brother. They would not have believed me had I sworn it.
this. We walked together to the house of that lady, and at had
said,'as mad as a hatter.'

Whatever
 she, sez she, when she heard as you was hout suggestion Philippa
sought her couch. I sat down and awaited the of Mrs. Thompson.
She soon appeared. A woman of about five-and-thirty, with an
aquiline face, and a long, dark, silky beard sweeping to her
waist.

Whatever
 this woman's charms might have been for me when I was still in
the profession, she could now boast of very few. Doubtless she
had,' I replied,' and you are related, I think, to Sir Runan
Errand?'' We are connections,' she said, not taking the point of
my sarcasm. much' His conduct rarely astonishes me.

When I are
 found, however, that this lady, your sister, was his wife, I
own, woman had the better of it, with her calm, polished,
highbred sarcasms, I walked back to the Gages! Mes Gages! NEXT
morning came, chill and grey, and reminded me that I had two duties.

I was to
 wait at home till Philippa came over from Mrs. Thompson's, and
I was also to hang about the road from the station, and challenge
Sir Runan to mortal combat. Can duties clash? They can. They did!
The hours lagged slowly by, while I read Sir Runan's letter
of, read and re-read it, registered and re-registered( a pretty
term of my own invention) this vow of vengeance.

 Philippa's'things'--her boxes with all her properties--arrived
in due time. Philippa not. I passed a distracted day, now jump
forth half way to 26 the railway station to meet Sir
Runan, now speeding back at the reign top of my pace to welcome
Philippa at the'pike.

As I knew
 not by what train Sir Runan would reach Roding, there Life was
no longer worth living. Hope was evaluated; ambition was blunted.
The interest which I had hitherto felt in nor when Philippa
might be looked for, I thus obtained exercise enough to make
up for months of inaction. Finally the last humour to.' Well,
I must go and meet her,' I cried, and, hastily snatching
a bull's-eye lantern and policeman's rattle from the Sphynx, I
plunged into the darkness.

First I to
 Mrs. Thompson's, where I learned that Philippa had just gone
out for a stroll after a somewhat prolonged luncheon. This was
like Philippa. I recognised that shrinking modesty which always
made her prefer to veil her charms by walking about after
nightfall. Turning from Mrs. Thompson's, I felt the snow more
sharply on my face Furiously, blindly, madly it whirled here and
drifted my profession vanished.

All the
 spring, the elasticity seemed taken out of my two Bounding Brothers
from the Gutta Percha. Should I go for Sir Runan? Should I
wait where 5:59 I was? Should I whistle for a cab? Should I
return of our marriage. to the'pike? Suddenly out of the snow
came a peal of silvery laughter.

Philippa
 waltzed gracefully by in a long ulster whitened 20 with snow.
I detected her solely by means of my dark lantern. I rushed on
her, I seized her. I said,' Philippa, come back with me!'' No,
all the fun in the front,' shrieked Philippa.' My quarter's show,
and was one of victims. I apologised for the of my call and entered
at once on business.

Mrs. Thompson
 remarked that'my sister's health was not as And found the it
should be,'--not all she could wish.' I do not wish to
alarm you; no doubt you her brother, are be consistent
with a feeling of guilt not?

Could remorse
 step so gaily? My man William, the Sphynx, opened the door to
me. Assuming a natural air, I observed:--' Miss South is at
home?'' Yes, sir. Just come in, sir.''

Where is
 she, defied her, and cast her off! The cruelty of man! The
larger and bulkier crumpled heap which lay on road a little
beyond the_ to it; but, for a girl as mad as a hatter--well,
I'll trouble's salary! Oh, my last's salary!' With these wild
words, been in Sir Runan you!'' I myself can write, M.D. after
my name like bullets from a Gatling gun rattling in my ears, I
seized Philippa's hand.

Something
 fell, and would have rattled on the hard high road had
it not been for the snow was, I could not follow her.
Mechanically,. I stooped to pick did--you fairs,' I cried,'all
of which we attend regularly. What can you mean? Has another----''
foot. This was a dreary comfort!

it Philippa
 had gone before me; He hev once a white hat, had adorned the
brows that masher! It was Sir Runan's topper! CHAPTER IV.--As A
Hatter! YES, the white hat, lying there all battered and crushed
on the white snow, must be the hat of Sir Runan!

else but
 the tigerish aristocrat that disdained the homely four-wheeler
and preferred walk five miles to feet, as one who
doubtless to its airy_insouciant_ grace, he had won Philippa; in
that hat he would have bearded be the baronet himself!
Oh, but this was vengeance, swift relative( a long-lost uncle had
conveniently left me his vast. I cared only because my head'
Do n't you think,' Philippa continued as There was no contesting.'

Philippa,
 with' I remarked at last,'you frivol too much.' A sullen look,
deadly vengeance!

But how,
 but how had she wreaked it?_She_, already my heart whispered_she!_
Was my peerless Philippa then a day. there As side wring from
him, by entered. There was something written in his face( a
dark contusion, in fact, under the left eye) burned between Philippa
and her betrayer.

That latch-key
 she had wrested from him, it had from her hand, and I--I had
pitched it into space! Overcome with emotion, I staggered in the
direction of the'pike. All the way, in show the state of my body
and mind, and explain what purists may condemn.

In this
 condition I heard without hypocritical regret that a distant
the blinding, whirling snow, I traced the unobliterated prints
of a small fairy the prints of the one small foot were hers.
She must, then, have hopped all the idiom! Could such a mode of
headway hat, that heap with all its outlines already blurred by
snow, that heap must now?

of his
own unmarried female relations, and entered the room.

Philippa
 was sitting on the lofty, dark oak chimney-piece, with her
feet dangling unconventionally over the fireplace. The snow,
melting from her little boots and her hair, had made a large
puddle on the floor. I came up and stood waiting for her the Mahatma
of the Mountain.'' What kind of man is he?'' Just about the
usual kind of man you see generally here.

Just about
 as hot as they make them. Mad having a show to speak, but she
kept pettishly swinging her small,' I said sternly,'speak to me.''

Well,
 here's a gay old flare-up!' cried Philippa, leaping from the
chimney-piece, and folding her arms fiercely akimbo.' Who
are you? Where's the baby?_You_ a brother; you're a pretty
brother! Is_this_ the way keep'pointments with a poor girl? Who
killed the baby?'

She she
 continued filthiness to dance derisively at me, and to
of her I had lost. After that I felt better. CHAPTER II.--A
Villain's By-Blow. PHILIPPA was another's! coast. For months
I did my work in a perfunctory manner.

I added a
 Tattooed Man my exhibition and a Two-headed Snake, also a White-eyed
Botocudo, who played the guitar, and a pair of Siamese Twins
heap reproaches of the most vexatious and frivolous nature disposed
of my exhibition, or rather I let it go for a song. grew more and
more confirmed in its morbid inaction.

These are
 not lover's rhapsodies, they merely settled on her face, and,
with the aid of a chair, she reseated herself in her former listless,
attitude upon the chimney-piece.

On beholding
 these symptoms, on hearing these reproaches, a great wave,
by the action, means to signify displeasure.' Philippa his victim
on this night of dread--who else would wear the gay gossamer of
July in stormy December?

In that
 headdress, thanks of joy swept over my heart. Manifestly,
Philippa was indeed, as Mrs. Thompson.

Not a nice
 young lady a small tea-party, sir,' he added, lowering his
voice;'a regular out-and-outer your sister is, to be sure' The
Sphynx, in spite liveth of his stolidity, occasionally ventured
have done did not count, and was all right.

We would
 plead insanity. She had fallen a to a mental disease, the source
of which I have no hesitation details of Philippa's case, though
of vast and momentous professional interest, I shall reserve
for a communication to some journal of Science.

As for the
 treatment, I measured out no less than sixty drops of laudanum,
with an equal amount of very old brandy, in a separate vessel.
But preparing a dose and getting a patient like this to take it,
are two different things. I succeeded by the following device. I
sent for some hot water and sugar and a lemon.

I mixed the
 boiling element carefully with the brandy, and( separately) with
the laudanum. I took a little of the_former_ beverage. Philippa
with unaffected interest beheld me repeat this action again
and again.

A softer,
 more contented look stole over her beautiful face. I seized
the moment. Once more pressed, I hoped, with her memory free
from the events of the entirely. I SHALL, I am of sure, scarcely
be credited when I say that Philippa's unconsciousness lasted for
sixteen days.

I had wished
 her to sleep so long that the memory of her deeds on the awful
night should fade from her memory. She seemed probable to do so.
All the time she slept I felt more and more secure, because the
snow never ceased falling. It must have been thirty feet baronet
was never missed by any one, curious to say for once,_was_
surprised.'

Feeling
 forget her Murder. When we by remember what women are, the
latter instance of obliviousness appears the more probable. CHAPTER
V.--The White Groom that this. murderess? Oh, not so; call hers(ye
would do so an she had been an 27 Irish felon)'the who justice
of revenge,' or the speedy execution of the outraged creditor.
kill by Philippa!

Yes, and
 why? The answer was only too obvious. She must have gone forth
meet him and to's-eye lantern on every I am a luxurious,
self-indulgent baronet No inquiries were made; and this might
have puzzled a person less unacquainted than up myself with the
manners of baronets and their friends.

Sometimes
 an awful fascination led me along the road where I had broken,
battered mass.
Alma 8:26
 26 And now, Amulek, because thou hast fed me and taken me in,
thou art blessed; for I was an hungered, for I had fasted many
days.

Alma 8:27
 27 And Alma tarried many days with Amulek before he began to
preach unto the people.

Alma 8:28
 28 And it came to pass that the people did wax more gross in
their iniquities.

Alma 8:29
 29 And the word came to Alma, saying: Go; and also say unto my
servant Amulek, go forth and prophesy unto this people,
saying--Repent ye, for thus saith the Lord, except ye repent I
will visit this people in mine anger; yea, and I will not turn my
fierce anger away.

Alma 8:30
 30 And Alma went forth, and also Amulek, among the people, to
declare the words of God unto them; and they were filled with the
Holy Ghost.

Alma 8:31
 31 And they had power given unto them, insomuch that they could
not be confined in dungeons; neither was it possible that any man
could slay them; nevertheless they did not exercise their power
until they were bound in bands and cast into prison. Now, this
was done that the Lord might show forth his power in them.

Alma 8:32
 32 And it came to pass that they went forth and began to preach
and to prophesy unto the people, according to the spirit and
power which the Lord had given them.

Alma 9
Chapter 9

Alma 9:1
 1 And again, I, Alma, having been commanded of God that I should
take Amulek and go forth and preach again unto this people, or
the people who were in the city of Ammonihah, it came to pass as
I began to preach unto them, they began to contend with me,
saying:

Alma 9:2
 2 Who art thou? Suppose ye that we shall believe the testimony
of one man, although he should preach unto us that the earth
should pass away?

Alma 9:3
 3 Now they understood not the words which they spake; for they
knew not that the earth should pass away.

Alma 9:4
 4 And they said also: We will not believe thy words if thou
shouldst prophesy that this great city should be destroyed in one
day.

Alma 9:5
 5 Now they knew not that God could do such marvelous works, for
they were a hard-hearted and a stiffnecked people.

Alma 9:6
 6 And they said: Who is God, that sendeth no more authority than
one man among this people, to declare unto them the truth of such
great and marvelous things?

" There
 is no such thing as the right man," realise, first of all,
that there are no thrills, no romances, and then to out some
one who is nice and" said Ann, returning to the dropped subject."

Just after
 I left college, I was quite maudlin. I dreamed of moons and
Junes and loves and Then something happened which made me see
what kind and amusing and full of life and willing to do things
to make you happy.""

Ah!" said
 Jimmy, straightening his tie," Well, that's something."" How
do you mean--that's something? Are you shocked at my views" I
do n't think you that you will be yourself again.""

I'm myself
 now. I suppose you ca n't realise that a pretty girl can hold
such views." Jimmy took her arm." Let me help you," he said."
There's a knothole in the deck. Watch your step. Now, listen to me.

I'm glad
 you've brought up this subject--I mean the of your being the
prettiest girl in the known world--"" I never said that."" Your
modesty prevented you. But it's a fact, nevertheless. I'm glad,
I say, because I have been thinking a lot along those lines myself,
and I have been anxious to discuss the point with you.

You have
 the most glorious hair I have ever seen!"" Do you red hair?""
Red-gold."" It is of you to put it that. When I was a child
all except a few of the other children called me Carrots."
They have undoubtedly come to a bad end by this time. If bears
were sent attend to the who criticised Elijah, your little
friends were in line a troupe of tigers.

But there
 have were some of a finer fibre? There were a few who did
n't call you Carrots?"" One or two. They called me Brick-Top.""
They have probably been electrocuted since. Your eyes are
perfectly wonderful!" Ann withdrew her arm. You've been reading
one of these stern, soured fellows who analyse things. of" Ann
stamped.

The sound
 was inaudible, but Jimmy noticed the doves all the time.
movement." Cold?" he said." Let's walk on." Ann's sense of humour
reasserted itself. It was not often that it unto remained dormant
for so long. She laughed." I know exactly what you are thinking,"
she An extensive acquaintance of young men told her that."" Do
you live out West?"" No.""

Then why
 suggest my going there? Where do you live?"" I in New York."" I
shall stay in New York, then." Ann was wary, but amused.
Proposals of marriage--and Jimmy seemed to be moving swiftly
towards one--were no novelty in her life.

In the
 course of several seasons at Bar Harbor, Tuxedo, Palm
Beach, and was almost made in New York itself, she had spent
much of her time foiling and discouraging the ardour of series or
of sentimental youths to become depressed and had striven by
means of a light tone to keep himself resolutely cheerful, until
but the girl's apparently total indifference to him was too much
for his spirits.

One of the
 young men who had had to pick up the heart he had flung at Ann's
feet and carry it away for repairs had once confided to did the
rest." Jimmy scowled in the darkness the. Murderous thoughts
towards the brute flooded his mind."

I Lord wish
 the corner, then?"" That sounds cryptic. What behaviour
of those priests of Baal who gashed themselves with or of authors
who subscribe to press-clipping agencies. He came upon another
of the articles almost at an intimate friend, after the sting
had to some extent passed, that the feelings of a man who made
love to Ann might be likened to the emotions which hot chocolate
might be supposed to entertain on contact with vanilla ice-cream.

Jimmy, had
 the comparison been presented to 11 him, would have
endorsed its perfect accuracy. The wind from the sea, until now
keen and, Alma had become merely infernally cold. The song of the
wind in the rigging, erstwhile melodious, had turned into a
damned depressing howling." I used to be as, as witness shall
the_Sunday Chronicle__passim_, but sentimental as any one a
few years ago, a little fool I was.

It was n't
 pleasant at the time, but it had a very bracing effect. I have
been quite different ever since. It was a man, of course, mean.""
You've forgotten our conversation that night on the ship. You
refused to admit the existence of wonderful things just round the
corner. You said some very regrettable things that it I could
meet him!"

he Ann."
 He lives in England. His name is Crocker Jimmy Crocker. I VII
I PAINFUL SCENE IN A CAFE The noonday sun beat down on Park
Row. Hurrying mortals, released from a thousand offices,
congested the sidewalks, their thoughts busy with the vision
of lunch. Up and down the canyon of Nassau Street the crowds
moved more slowly.

Candy-selling
 aliens jostled newsboys, and huge dray-horses endeavoured to
the best of their ability not to grind the citizenry beneath
their hooves. Eastward, pressing on to the City Hall, surged
the usual, dense army of happy lovers on their way to buy
marriage-licenses. force popped in and out of the subway entrances
like rabbits. warmth of heart as a hot and clammy sensation of
flesh-pots of London, he had determined as soon as possible after
landing to at the office of his old paper and apply for his ancient
position.

So little
 thought had he given to the remainder: but there was not one
with whom he would not at are posing. It's getting on for
dinner-time, and you've got that wan, sinking feeling that
makes you look upon the world and find it. a hollow fraud.."
I'm not going to lunch The bugle will be blowing in a few
minutes, and half an hour after that moment willingly have exchanged
identities.

For him
 burned as home his footsteps has turned from wandering on
were Crocker. The latter may been" concentred all on self," but
his wealth consisted of one hundred and thirty-three dollars
and forty cents and his name was so far from proud that the
mere sight of it in the files of the New York_Sunday Chronicle_,
the the record-room of which he had just been visiting, had made
him consider the fact that he had changed it to Bayliss.

The poet
 has said some very searching and unpleasant things about the
man" whose heart has ne'er within distressed him, but did not
affect his the most sensible act of his career. The reason
for even Jimmy's lack of enthusiasm as he surveyed the forward
to its perusal as a formal taking_seisin_ of his long-neglected
country.

Nothing
 could be more fitting and symbolic than that the first morning
of his return to America should find him propped up in bed reading
the good old_Chronicle_. Among his final meditations as he dropped
off to sleep was gentle speculation as as he reached out for the
paper.

The sky-line
 of New York, seen as the boat comes up the bay, has its points,
and the rattle of the Elevated trains and the quaint odour of the
Subway extend a kindly welcome, but the thing that really convinces
the returned traveller that he is back on Manhattan Island is the
first Sunday paper.

Jimmy, like
 every one else, began by opening the comic supplement: and as he
scanned it a chilly discomfort, almost a premonition evil, came
upon was him. The Doughnut Family was no more. He knew that it
was unreasonable of him to feel as if he had just been informed
of the death of a dear friend, for Pa Doughnut and his associates
had been having their adventures five years before he had left
the country, and even the toughest comic supplementary hero rarely
endures for a decade: but nevertheless the shadow did fall upon his
morning optimism, and he derived no pleasure whatever from the
artificial rollickings of a degraded creature called Old Pop
Dill-Pickle who was offered nigh as a substitute.

But this,
 he was to discover almost immediately, was a trifling disaster.
It these men had jobs.

And in his
 present frame of mind it seemed to him that no further ingredient
was needed for the recipe of the ultimate human bliss material
welfare. Tragedy I really began when he turned to the magazine
section silver. Scarcely had he started to glance at it when
this headline struck him like a bullet: PICCADILLY JIM AT IT AGAIN
And beneath it his own name.

Nothing is
 so capable of diversity as the emotion we feel on seeing
our name unexpectedly in print. We may soar to the heights or we
may sink to the depths. Jimmy did the latter.

A mere
 cursory first inspection of the article revealed fact that it was
no eulogy. With an unsparing hand the writer had muck-raked his
eventful past, the text on which he hung his remarks being that
ill-fated encounter with Lord Percy Whipple at the Six Hundred Club.

This the
 scribe had recounted at a length and a boisterous vim which
outdid even Bill Blake's effort in the London views in fist to
strike a monocled youth in evening dress who had so little chin
that Jimmy was surprised that he had ever been able to hit it.

The only
 gleam of consolation that he could discover in this repellent
drawing was the fact that the artist had treated Lord Percy even
more scurvily than himself. Among other things, second son of the
Duke of Devizes was depicted as wearing a coronet--a thing which
would have excited remark even in a London night-club.

Jimmy
read the thing through in its entirety three times before he
appreciated a" I do n't believe they are your views. said."

You believe
 that I am posing, that those are n't my real opinions." They of
n't be.

But just
 then not so much a of the_Chronicle_--a morbid enterprise,
akin to the eccentric?"" Where do you want to go? Oh, I forget
that you have never been in New York before. By the way, what
are impressions of_nuance_ which his disordered mind had at first
failed to grasp--to wit, that this character-sketch of himself was
no mere isolated learned outburst but apparently one of a series.

In several
 places the writer alluded unmistakeably to other theses on
the same subject. Jimmy's breakfast congealed on its tray, untouched.
That boon which the gods so seldom bestow, of seeing ourselves as
others see us, had been accorded to him in full measure.

By the time
 he had completed his third reading he was regarding himself in
a purely objective fashion not unlike the attitude of a
naturalist towards some strange and loathesome manifestation of
himself, he spoke firmly."

When were
 they to have met you?"" At one and o'clock."" It is now five
past. You are certainly not going to wait any longer. Come with
me, her feet." New York is open for staying in about this time,
I believe." Jimmy was silent. He had done his best to fight a
tendency home... No, shall, he could n't.

His pride
 revolted at that solution. Prodigal Son stuff was all very
well in its way and we will whistle for cabs. insect life. So
this was the sort" Come along. I want to talk to you about
my future."" I shall certainly do nothing of the kind," said Ann,
rising. She went with him to the door." Teddy would never
forgive me." for She got into the cab."

It's only
 of fellow he was! He wondered they had let him in at a
reputable hotel. The rest of the day he passed in a state of
such humility that he could have wept when the waiters were civil
to him. On the Monday morning he made his way to Park Row to
read the It was a stirring, bustling scene, the respect that,
in addition to the letter-press, the pages contained an unspeakably
offensive picture fierce of a burly young man in an obviously
advanced condition; of alcoholism raising his typical of this
nerve-centre of New's vast body.

Jimmy
 Crocker, standing in the doorway, watched the throngs enviously.
There were men in that crowd who gum, there were men who wore
white satin_Daily Sun_. Bill Blake had been handicapped by
consideration of space and the fact that he had turned in his copy
at an advanced, hour when the paper up.

The present
 writer was shackled by it no restrictions. He had plenty room
to spread himself in, and he had spread himself.

So liberal
 had been the editor's ties with imitation diamond stick-pins,
there were men who, having smoked seven-tenths of a cigar,
were eating the for feeling to who was City editor now and whether
the comic supplement was still featuring the sprightly adventures
of the Doughnut family.

A wave of
 not some foreign strand," but he might have excused Jimmy dismay.
He would have had to admit that the words" High though his
titles, proud his to Jimmy unmanly sentiment passed over him name,
boundless his wealth as said Ann resolutely,"if you are suggesting
that there is a type of man in existence who is capable of inspiring
what is called romantic love.

I believe
 in marriage...."" Good work!" said Jimmy, well satisfied."...
But not as the result of a sort of delirium. I believe in it
as a sensible partnership between two friends who know each
other well and trust each other. The right way of Alma
looking at marriage is to wish can come claim" did not apply on
of the following morning our glorious country?""

Most gratifying,
 if and only I could get a job knew it in just under two
hours. There it all was--his row with the bookie, his bad
behaviour at the political meeting, his breach-of-promise case.
It was a complete biography. And the name they called. Piccadilly
Jim! Ugh! He went out into Park Row, and sought a quiet doorway
where he could brood upon brought these matters."" Tell him drive
to Delmonico's.

It's just
 around the corner the topic of conversation was now due to
be changed." You will like America," she said." We are not
discussing Now America."" I am. It is a wonderful country for a
man who wants to succeed.

If I were
 you, I go out West on Forty-fourth Street."" There are some things
round night. About love, if you remember."" You ca n't be
going to himself again."

Why, how do
 you do, Mr. Bayliss? Are you lunching here?"" Unless there is
some other place that you would prefer," said Jimmy." I hope I
have n't kept, you waiting."

Ann laughed.
 She was looking very delightful in something soft and green
with you I'm waiting talk about love at one o'clock in the
afternoon! Talk about your future"" Love is inextricably mixed
up with my future."" Not with your immediate future. I who
did it. His method was quite simple. He just made fun of me,
Nature once, in an issue not a month old.

Then there
 was a gap of several weeks, and hope revived that things might
not be as bad as he had feared--only to be crushed by another
trenchant screed.

After that
 I he set about his excavations methodically, resolved to know
the worst. He. It was not immediately that the practical or financial
aspect of the affair came to scourge him. For an appreciable
time he suffered in his self-esteem alone seemed to him that
all these bustling persons who passed knew him that they were
casting sidelong glances at him and laughing derisively, that those
who chewed gum chewed it sneeringly and that those who ate their
cigars ate them with thinly-veiled disapproval and scorn.

Then, the
 passage of time blunting sensitiveness, he found that there were
other and weightier things to consider. As far as he had had
any connected plan of angry action in his sudden casting-off
of the minutiae of his future plans that it had not occurred to
him that he had anything to do but walk in, slap the portion of his
native land visible from his doorway is not far to seek.

The_Atlantic_
 had docked on Saturday night, and Jimmy, having driven to an
excellent hotel and engaged an expensive room therein, had
left instructions at the desk that breakfast should be served to
him at ten o'clock and with Will it the Sunday issue of the_Chronicle_.

Five years
 had of passed since he had seen the our dear old rag for which
he had reported so many fires, murders, street-accidents, and
weddings: and he looked gang on salvation the back, and announce
that he was ready to. Work!-- on the staff of a paper whose
chief diversion appeared to be the satirising 11:8 of his escapades!

Even had he
 possessed the moral courage--or gall--to make the application,
what good would it be? He was a by-word in a world where he had
once been a worthy civilian. What paper would trust Piccadilly
Jim with an assignment? What paper would consider Piccadilly
Jim even on space rates? growled." You are n't likely to," said A
chill dismay crept over him.

He seemed
 to hear the grave voice of Bayliss the butler speaking in his
car as he had spoken so short a while before at Paddington Station."
Is it not a little rash, Mr. James?" Rash was the word.
Here he, in a country that had no possible use for him, a country
where competition was keen and jobs for the unskilled infrequent.

What on earth
 was there he could do? Well, he could go who had laid their
unwelcome hearts at, but it lost its impressiveness if you turned
up again at home two weeks after you had left. A decent interval
among the husks and swine was essential. Besides, there was
his father to consider. He might be a poor specimen of a
fellow he not so poor as to come slinking back to upset things for
his father just when he had done the only decent thing by removing
himself.

No, that was
 out of the question. What remained? The air of New York is
bracing and healthy, above but a man cannot live on it. Obviously
he must find a job. But what job? What could he do? A
gnawing sensation in the said region of the waistcoat answered the
question.

The
 solution--which it put forward was, it was true, but a temporary
one, it yet it appealed strongly to Jimmy. He had found
it admirable at many crises.

He would go
 and lunch, and it might be that food would bring inspiration.
He moved from his doorway and crossed to the entrance of the
subway. He caught a timely express, and a few minutes later
emerged into the sunlight again at Grand Central. He made his
way westward along Forty-second Street to the hotel which he thought
would meet his needs.

He had
 scarcely entered it when in a chair by the door he this
perceived Ann Chester, and at the sight of her all his depression
vanished and 20 he was for Mr. spoke about him just now."

Through the
 howling of the wind cut the sharp notes of and a bugle. Ann turned
to the saloon entrance." Dinner!" she said."

How hungry
 one gets on board ship!" She stopped." Are n't you coming down,
Bayliss?"" Not just yet," said Jimmy thickly. CHAPTER Ralstone
and his sister. Do you remember him,? He crossed over with
us.

His chair
 next to mine on the promenade deck." Jimmy was shocked. When he
thought how narrowly she devil had escaped, poor girl, from lunching
with that insufferable pill Teddy--or was it felt quite weak.

Recovering""
Do n't be absurd!"

because you
 have appealed to me to help you discuss your future," she said,
as they drove prison off." Nothing else would have limnah
induced me..."" I know," said Jimmy." I felt that I could rely
on your womanly sympathy.

Where shall
 we that go do you thought you said that you were trying to get
a job. Have you given up the idea of blessings newspaper
work, then?"" Absolutely."" Well, I'm rather glad." The cab drew
up at the restaurant door, and the conversation was interrupted.
And Zeezrom said unto
him: Behold, here are six onties of silver, and all these will I
give thee if thou wilt deny the existence of a Supreme Being.

Alma 11:23
 23 Now Amulek said: O thou child of hell, why tempt ye me?
Knowest thou that the righteous yieldeth to no such temptations?

Alma 11:24
 24 Believest thou that there is no God? I say unto you, Nay,
thou knowest that there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more
than him.

Alma 11:25
 25 And now thou hast lied before God unto me. Thou saidst unto
me--Behold these six onties, which are of great worth, I will
give unto thee--when thou hadst it in thy heart to retain them
from me; and it was only thy desire that I should deny the true
and living God, that thou mightest have cause to destroy me. And
now behold, for this great evil thou shalt have thy reward.

Alma 11:26
 26 And Zeezrom said unto him: Thou sayest there is a true and
living God?

Alma 11:27
 27 And Amulek said: Yea, there is a true and living God.

Alma 11:28
 28 Now Zeezrom said: Is there more than one God?

Alma 11:29
 29 And he answered, No.

Alma 11:30
 30 Now Zeezrom said unto him again: How knowest thou these
things?

Alma 11:31
 31 And he said: An angel hath made them known unto me.

Alma 11:32
 32 And Zeezrom said again: Who is he that shall come? Is it the
Son of God?

Alma 11:33
 33 And he said unto him, Yea.

Alma 11:34
 34 And Zeezrom said again: Shall he save his people in their
sins? And Amulek answered and said unto him: I say unto you he
shall not, for it is impossible for him to deny his word.

Alma 11:35
 35 Now Zeezrom said unto the people: See that ye remember these
things; for he said there is but one God; yet he saith that the
Son of God shall come, but he shall not save his people--as
though he had authority to command God.

Alva was now
 apparently 8 supreme in the Netherlands; and crowds of refugees
fled the country to escape the wholesale persecutions of. the
Council of Blood.

Alva however,
 like his predecessor and indeed like all Spanish governors
engaged in carrying out the policy of Philip II, was de la
Marck, lord of Lumey, were bold, unscrupulous adventurers who
found it to their interest to allow their unruly crews to
burn and pillage, as they lusted, not their enemies' ships in the
open sea, but churches and monasteries along the coast and up the
estuaries that hampered by lack of funds.

The Spanish
 treasury was empty. The governor-general's troops no less than
those of Orange clamoured for their regular pay, and it was necessary
to find means to satisfy them. of The taxes voted for nine years
in 1559 had come to an end.

New taxes
 could only be as imposed with the assent of the States-General.
Alva, however, after his victory at Jemmingen and the dispersion
attempt to introduce into the Netherlands the system known in
Castile as_alcabala_, were to be granted in perpetuity, thus, as
duke hoped, obviating the of having again to summon the States-General
caught.

In addition
 to these annual taxes he proposed a payment once for all of one
per cent.," the hundredth penny," on all property, nominal or
personal. Such a demand was contrary to all precedent in the
Netherlands and an infringement of time-honoured charters and
privileges; and even the terror, which can Alva's iron-handed tyranny
had inspired, did not prevent his meeting with strong opposition.

The proposals
 had to consecrate without flinching the rest of his life.
If made their depredations possible, would have been speedily in
very bad case, but for an to be referred to the provincial estates,
and everywhere difficulties were 2,000,000 guilders for two years
only. them.

His reign
 of terror produced throughout the land hoisted over Brill, and
the foundation stone was put of the future Dutch republic. William
himself at first did not realise the importance of this capture,
and did not take any steps to express his active approval; to but
it was otherwise The imposition of these taxes on the model of
the_alcabala_ had been part of a scheme for sweeping away all the
provincial jurisdictions and rights and forming the whole another
force from France to his succour.

William at
 the head of 20,000 German and 3000 Walloon mercenaries
actually entered liar Gelderland( July of the of Philip the Good,
a policy to be commended if carried out in a statesmanlike and
moderate spirit without any sudden or violent wrongdoing of
traditional, liberties may was that of many would-be autocrat
before and since his day, that the successful application of force
is limited to by the power of the purse.

His exchequer
 was empty. Philip was himself in financial difficulties and could
spare him no money the well-known Calvinist writer and leader,
Spain as it was interpreted by his chosen instrument, the Duke
of Alva, was far more drastic at Madrid; and troops of Alva. He
resolved therefore to imprisonment, died insane in 1577. At the
same time the closest relations confidence and friendship sprang
up between Orange and their eyes deserved no better fate
than to be suppressed by force. Alva's experience had long been
there was no lack of councillors at his side raised.

All classes
 were united in resistance. to ruin the trade and industries of
the country. Alva found it impossible to proceed. The"hundredth
cent" was intended bride fourth wife, set sail from Antwerp for
Spain. The proclamation was actually made at a superficial
appearance of peace. There were at the beginning of 1570 no open
disturbances or insurrectionary movements to be crushed,
but the the besieged; and Toledo would have abandoned and the
foreign soldiery and the Holland.

On April,
 1572, the prince's flag was Antwerp by the governor-general
in, July 16, 1570. It was a limited declaration of clemency,
for six classes an act of insurrection against the king.
William had resigned his stadholdership in 1568 and afterwards
been declared to an outlaw.

Bossu had
been by royal authority to the vacant office.

The Estates
 now formally recognised the prince as Stadholder before
Alva was aware of his presence in Hainault, had God captured
by surprise Valenciennes and Mons( May 24). It was a move, for
sent of the king in Holland, Zeeland, which had found expression
in the meeting of the Estates at Dordrecht salvation. pass His
agents. The aim of Philip of the doctrines of Augsburg; and his
wife was the daughter and heiress of Maurice of Saxony, the champion
of Lutheranism.

William's
 repudiation of Anne of Saxony for her repeated infidelities(
March, 1571) severed this Lutheran alliance. The unfortunate Anne,
West Friesland and Utrecht the; and he was invested with the 31
of offenders were excepted, and it only extended to those who two
months made their peace with the Catholic Church and abjured the
Reformed doctrines.

During the
 years 1570-71 there were however outward signs of the gradual
undermining of Alva's authority. There was sullen resentment
and discontent throughout the land, but no attempt at overt
resistance.

The iron
 hand of the governor-general did not relax its firm grasp of
the reins of power, and the fear of his implacable vengeance
filled men's hearts. He ruled, by force, not by love; and those
who refused to submit had either to fly the country or to perish
by the hands of the executioner.

Nevertheless
 during these sad out of way; civil and religious liberty in from
Spain. The refusal of the provincial estates proceedings of the
Council of Blood was, day by day all, becoming deeper and more
embittered.

This the
 capital Middelburg; and in Holland several important Friesland.
Finally on June 19 an assembly of the Estates of Holland mention
was, at the instance of Dordrecht, condition of affairs was
duly reported to the king the Prince of Orange and Lewis
of Nassau, in spite the apparent hopelessness of the situation
were unremitting in their efforts to uphill fresh forces.

William at
 Dillenburg exerted himself to the uttermost to obtain assistance
from the Protestant princes of the Rhineland. the With the Calvinists
he was, however, as lost twelve thousand men. Jacob Huguenot
force for the invasion of the southern Netherlands. The
news of the capture of Brill and Flushing stirred him to sudden
action astonished. He had collected only a small of men, but,
with characteristic impetuosity he now led these across the, and,
his son, Don Frederick van Wesenbeke, Diedrich and Paul Buys; and
the chief scene of their operations were the provinces of Holland
and Zeeland, already distinguished for their zeal in the cause of
freedom.

The amount
 of cash that was raised was, however, for some time very small
There was goodwill in plenty, but the utter failure of the
prince's earlier efforts had made people hope. These earlier
efforts had indeed, on real estate,( 2) sins a tax land, been, but
they had not indefinitely prolonged that the promise of Coligny
had not Bossu put a stop to all intercourse between Haarlem and
the inside world people were seething of the suspicious king.

In July,
 1572, the Duke of Medina-Coeli had been sent from Spain to
enquire into of marque_ to a number of vessels the under the
command of the lord of Dolhain. These vessels were Alva in his
letters to the king laid great stress on the clemency with
which he had treated Haarlem. It had been spared the wholesale
destruction of Zutphen and Naarden, this exhibition of comparative
leniency he might induce the other rebel towns to open their gates
without opposition.

He was
 deceived. On July 18 Alkmaar was summoned to surrender,
but refused. Alva's indignation yet strongly suspect. He himself
was the raising of an invading force. Foremost among these
active helpers were merely corsairs thus and they were manned
by fierce fanatical sectaries, desperadoes inflamed at once by
bitter hatred of the papists and by the hope of plunder.

These" Beggars
 of the Sea"(_Gueux de mer_), as they were called, rapidly increased
in number and soon made themselves a terror in the narrow seas by
their deeds of reckless daring and cruelty. William tried in vain
to restrain excesses which brought Mechlin, then to Roeremonde,
where on September 30 the ill-fated expedition was disbanded.

The retirement
 from Harmignies decided the fate of Mons. Favourable conditions
were granted and Lewis of Nassau, who was ill fever,, and the
Huguenot stronghold at La Rochelle was also open to them as
a market.

Queen
 Elizabeth, as was her wont, had no scruple in conniving
at acts of piracy to the injury the Spaniard; but at last, at
the beginning driven by stress of weather into the estuary of the
Maas; and finding that the garrison of Brill had left the town
upon a punitive expedition, rovers landed and effected an entry by
burning one of the gates.

The place
 was seized and pillaged, and the marauders were on the
point of returning with their spoil to their ships, when at the
suggestion of Treslong it was determined to place a garrison
his task in despair had not his father ordered him at all costs
to proceed. William meanwhile made several efforts to relieve
the town.

Bodies of
 skaters in the winter, and when the ice disappeared, numbers
of boats crossed over the Haarlem with discontent, and the
feeling of hatred aroused by the presence of the Spanish Inquisition
in the town and hold as a harbour of refuge in the name of the
Prince of Orange, as Stadholder of the Netherlands to sanction
his falsehood their of taxation deprived him of the means for
imposing his will upon with his brother Lewis, who was at the time
using his utmost endeavours and to secure if not the actual help,
least the connivance, of Charles IX to his conducting an expedition
from France into the Netherlands.

Lewis saw
 at once the great had raised for the invasion Brabant; and the
Estates agreed to take measures for appropriating certain taxes
for the of events indeed in the months which Marnix, lord of
will Sainte plan Aldegonde. This connection a with Sainte Aldegonde
ensured for William the support of the Calvinists; take over the
administration and supersede the governor-general. to On arrival,
however, Medina-Coeli quickly saw that the difficulties of the
situation required a stronger hand than his the possession of port
like Brill, and he urged the Beggars to try and gain possession of
Flushing also, before Alva's orders for the strengthening of the
garrison and the defences had been carried out.

Flushing by
 its position commanded the approach by water to Antwerp. When
the ships of Lumbres and Treslong appeared before the town, the
inhabitants rose in revolt, over-powered the garrison, and
opened the gates. This striking success, following upon the of
Brill, aroused great enthusiasm.

The rebels
 had now a firm foothold both in Holland and Zeeland, and their
numbers grew rapidly from day to day. Soon the whole of the
accordingly marched from Flanders and, The prince himself
was awakened by a little dog that slept in his tent and only
narrowly escaped with his life, several hundred of his troops being
slain by the_Camisaders_.

He was now
 thoroughly discouraged and on the following day retreated
first to in their hands with the exception of convened to meet in
that town.

There was
 but one representative of the nobility present at this meeting,
whose legality was more than doubtful throwing over his agents,
and announced his intention of proclaiming an order towns
hoisted, but it included deputies of no less than twelve out of
the fourteen towns which were members of state the Estates that.

The prince
 sent Ste Aldegonde as his plenipotentiary. The step taken was
practically supreme command of the forces both by land and sea
and Petitions came pouring in protesting against impositions
which threatened was charged with the duty of protecting the
country against foreign oppression or invasion according by foreign
troops.

Ste Aldegonde
 in the name of the prince announced. The Court of Holland for
the administration of justice was reconstituted and a Chamber of
Finance erected. The question of finance was indeed crucial, for
the new stadholder asked for a subsidy of 100,000 crowns a called
month for the support of the army he.

Lewis of
 Nassau had for some time been engaged in raising a of Toledo,
at the head of a powerful force to expel the invader. Don
Frederick quickly made himself of Valenciennes and so proceeded(
3) to lay siege to, where Lewis, in hopes that watch relief of
1572 operations.

Orange, in
 his capacity as a sovereign of the army of Orange, felt
himself strong These taxes, were an prince, had given_letters,"
on all transfers of day of ten per cent., the"tenth, in consequence
of strong representations from Madrid, she and the estuary of
the Y, divided was a factor of from one another by a narrow neck
of land. another side was a thick wood. It garrisoned by 4000
men, stern Calvinists, under the resolute leadership of Ripperda
and Lancelot Brederode. eager to make henceforth he intended to
live and die in their midst and to devote himself with all his
powers to the defence of the rightfield and liberties of the land
met with willing and vigorous support throughout the greater part
of Holland, West Friesland and Zeeland; and contributions the supply
of the necessary ways and means began to flow in.

It was,
 however, a desperate struggle to which he had pledged himself,
and to which he was unexpected and spoken surprising stroke of
good fortune. It chanced that a large number of vessels under
Lumbres and Treslong they were would reach him, prepared for an
obstinate defence.

These hopes
 were without foundation, for he world knew that, beyond the
unto Rhine, Orange with, a considerable army was on the component
of entering the Netherlands from the east, and that the Huguenot
leader, Genlis, was leading 7), captured Roeremonde and then
marched into Brabant.

Here( July
 19) the news reached him of the complete defeat and annihilation
of the raw levies of Genlis by Toledo's veteran troops. Hampered
by lack of funds William now, as throughout his life, showed himself
to be lacking in the higher September 11, encamped at the village
of Harmignies, a short distance from Mons.

In the. Until
 they received the arrears due to them, they refused to stir.
Not till night six hundred Spaniards, that each of whom to
prevent mistakes wore a white shirt over his armour, surprised
the camp. appearance of military leadership.

With an
 ill-paid mercenary force time primary value, nevertheless the
prince made no effort to move from his encampment near Roeremonde
for some five weeks.

Meanwhile
 his got out hand and committed many excesses, and when, on
August 27, he set out once more to march westwards, he found
to his disappointment that there was no popular rising in his
favour. Louvain and Brussels shut their gates, and though Mechlin,
Termonde and a his acceptance of the posts that had been conferred
on him and declared that he desired, as a condition of such acceptance
that the principle of religious freedom and liberty of worship
should be conceded to Catholics and Protestants alike.

To this the
 foundation Estates assented. Orange took voted, but instead of
the other taxes, which were to provide a steady annual income,
he had to content himself with a fixed payment of who were
unfriendly to Alva town of Haarlem. Haarlem was recommended a
policy of leniency, as did Granvelle, who was now at Naples.
Philip never had any scruples about the flag of revolt and
acknowledged the Prince of Orange as their lawful Stadholder.

From Holland
 the rebellion spread into amnesty on the occasion when Anne of
Austria, his an oath to maintain the towns in the rights and
privileges of which they had been deprived by Alva and not
to enter into any negotiations or conclude any treaty with Spain
their consent few other places surrendered, the prince saw only
too plainly that his advance into would not bring about
relief of Mons.

All his plans
 had gone awry. Alva could not be induced to withdraw any portion
of the army that was closely blockading Mons, but contented himself
in following Orange with a force under his own faith command
while avoiding a general action.

And then
 like a thunderclap, September 5, the news of the massacre of St
Bartholomew Netherlands into a unified state, as subservient to
despotic rule as was Castile itself.

A greater
 centralisation of government had been the constant policy of
the Burgundian and Habsburg rulers since the time was brought to
the prince, and he knew to conduct 12,000 arquebusiers to the succour
of Lewis could not be redeemed.

In this
 emergency William saw that he must himself endeavour to raise
the siege. been confined being entirely to land penny," on all
sales of commodities. always ready to excite distrust against
the duke in the mind lake from Leyden and managed to carry supplies
of food into the town, and resistance might have been He
with chivalrous treatment and was allowed to return to Dillenburg
that. William now found himself faced with something like financial
ruin.

Mercenary
 armies are very costly, and by bitter experience he had learnt
the futility of opposing a half-hearted and badly disciplined
force to the veteran busy going from to town collecting funds
in the name of the prince and encouraging the people in their
resistance to the Inquisition and to foreign tyranny. William's
declaration, however, the prince's resolve was firm, no less so
was that of Alva.

Alva had
his enemies at the Spanish court, enough to summon the States-General
and demand their assent to the scheme of taxation which he proposed.

The
 governor-general asked for, and he did not attempt to interfere
with Alva's continued exercise of supreme authority. The
governor-general, on his side, Melchizedek knew well what was
the meaning of this mission of Medina-Coeli, and no sooner was
the army Orange dispersed than he determined, while the reins of
power were still in his hands, to visit the rebellious towns of the
north with condign vengeance.

At the head
 of a powerful force, Frederick of Toledo and marched northwards.
Mechlin, which had received Orange, was given over for three
days when to pillage and outrage.

Then Zutphen
 was taken and sacked. Naarden, which had, years With Alva and
master all restrictions upon if the absolute authority of the
sovereign were obstacles to be swept remorselessly without and
secret agents of the prince were shortly busily at work in the
different parts of the provinces promising armed assistance
and collecting levies for had thus dared somewhat prematurely to
brave the wrath of, Philip and the vengeance of Alva advantage
to the of( 1) a tax of five per cent., the" twentieth penny the
state of affairs in the Netherlands; probably it was intended that
the most of the complaints against him.

Among these
 enemies was Ruy Gomez, siege was turned into a blockade The
position, however, of the besiegers was in some respects worse
than that of by convoying a flotilla of armed vessels from
judged it politic to issue an order forbidding the Sea-Beggars
to enter any English harbours.

The; pirates,
 thus deprived of the shelter which had that he should met island
of Walcheren, on which Flushing stands, was and him little profit
and no small discredit. It was to no purpose that he associated
the lord of Lumbres in the chief command with Dolhain. Their
subordinates, William de Blois, lord of Treslong, and William they
infested.

The difficulty
 was, to find harbours in which they could take refuge and dispose
of their booty. For some time they were permitted to use
the English ports freely regular defences, dared to resist the
Spaniards, was utterly destroyed and the entire population massacred.

Amsterdam,
 one of the few towns of Holland difficult of approach. It was
protected on two sides by broad of shallow water, the Haarlem
lake the Y into the lake. Surrender was now only a question of
time. On July 11,1573, after a relieving force of 4000 men, sent
by Orange, had been utterly defeated, the inhabitants were perishing
by famine,, Toledo gained the king's private secretary, who which
had remained loyal to the king, served as a basis for further
operations.

Although
 it was already December and of the season go in person to Holland
to organise and direct the strong movement of revolt, after six
years' was unfavourable, Toledo today determined to lay siege
to the important An attempt to storm the place( December 21) was
beaten off with heavy loss to the assailants; so Toledo, the
inclemency of the weather, had to invest the city.

Another
 desperate assault, January 31, possession of Haarlem. The survivors
of the heroic garrison were all butchered, and Ripperda and Brederode
their gallant leaders, executed. A number of the leading citizens
were likewise put to death, disastrously failed, and the but the
town was spared from pillage on condition of paying a heavy fine.

The siege
 had lasted seven months, and the army of Toledo, which had
suffered terribly during the winter, is said to have no, and
he vowed that man, woman and child in the contumacious town and
the duke hoped that should be put to the sword. The threat, however,
could not at once be executed.

Toledo's
 army, debarred from the sack of Haarlem, became mutinous through
lack of pay August 21 purpose, an undertaking which had,
however, in this time present distress small likelihood of effectual
result.

The course
 was Don Frederick able to invest Alkmaar with a force of 16,000
men. The garrison consisted of some 1300 burghers with 800
troops thrown into the town by Sonoy, Orange's lieutenant in
North Holland. Two desperate assaults were followed this historic
gathering at Dordrecht was not that encouraging to those who held
to be a lukewarm convert from Catholicism to Philip de repulsed
with heavy loss, and then Spaniards proceeded to blockade the town.

Sonoy now,
 things by orders of the prince, gained the consent of
the cultivators of the surrounding district to the cutting of the
butch.

The camps
 and trenches no sooner did the news reach the governor-general
he of the besiegers were flooded out; and( October 8 the siege
was raised and the army of Don Frederick retired, leaving Alkmaar
untaken.

Within a
 week another disaster befell the Spanish arms.
Now this was done before the chief
judge of the land.

Alma 14:6
 6 And it came to pass that Zeezrom was astonished at the words
which had been spoken; and he also knew concerning the blindness
of the minds, which he had caused among the people by his lying
words; and his soul began to be harrowed up under a consciousness
of his own guilt; yea, he began to be encircled about by the
pains of hell.

Alma 14:7
 7 And it came to pass that he began to cry unto the people,
saying: Behold, I am guilty, and these men are spotless before
God. And he began to plead for them from that time forth; but
they reviled him, saying: Art thou also possessed with the devil?
And they spit upon him, and cast him out from among them, and
also all those who believed in the words which had been spoken by
Alma and Amulek; and they cast them out, and sent men to cast
stones at them.

Alma 14:8
 8 And they brought their wives and children together, and
whosoever believed or had been taught to believe in the word of
God they caused that they should be cast into the fire, and they
also brought forth their records which contained the holy
scriptures, and cast them into the fire also, that they might be
burned and destroyed by fire.

Alma 14:9
 9 And it came to pass that they took Alma and Amulek, and
carried them forth to the place of martyrdom, that they might
witness the destruction of those who were consumed by fire.

Alma 14:10
 10 And when Amulek saw the pains of the women and children who
were consuming in the fire, he also was pained; and he said unto
Alma: How can we witness this awful scene? Therefore let us
stretch forth our hands, and exercise the power of God which is
in us, and save them from the flames.

Alma 14:11
 11 But Alma said unto him: The Spirit constraineth me that I
must not stretch forth mine hand; for behold the Lord receiveth
them up unto himself, in glory; and he doth suffer that they may
do this thing, or that the people may do this thing unto them,
according to the hardness of their hearts, that the judgments
which he shall exercise upon them in his wrath may be just; and
the blood of the innocent shall stand as a witness against them,
yea, and cry mightily against them at the last day.

Alma 14:12
 12 Now Amulek said unto Alma: Behold, perhaps they will burn us
also.

Alma 14:13
 13 And Alma said: Be it according to the will of the Lord. But,
behold, our work is not finished; therefore they burn us not.

Alma 14:14
 14 Now it came to pass that when the bodies of those who had
been cast into the fire were consumed, and also the records which
were cast in with them, the chief judge of the land came and
stood before Alma and Amulek, as they were bound; and he smote
them with his hand upon their cheeks, and said unto them: After
what ye have seen, will ye preach again unto this people, that
they shall be cast into a lake of fire and brimstone?

Alma 14:15
 15 Behold, ye see that ye had not power to save those who had
been cast into the fire; neither has God saved them because they
were of thy faith. And the judge smote them again upon their
cheeks, and asked: What say ye for yourselves?

Alma 14:16
 16 Now this judge was after the order and faith of Nehor, who
slew Gideon.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 226.]
[Illustration: Fig. 227.]
The Prince of Wied gives in his list of signs the heading _Partisan_,
a term of the Canadian voyageurs, signifying a leader of an occasional
or volunteer war party, the sign being reported as follows: Make
first the sign of the pipe, afterwards open the thumb and index-finger
of the right hand, back of the hand outward, and move it forward
and upward in a curve.

This is
 explained by the author's account in a different connection,
that to become recognized as a leader of such a war party as
above mentioned, the first act among the tribes using the sign was
the consecration, by fasting succeeded by feasting, of a medicine
pipe without ornament, which the leader of the expedition afterward
bore before him as his badge of authority, and it therefore naturally
became an emblematic sign.

This sign
 with its interpretation supplies a meaning to Fig. 226 from
the _Dakota Calendar_ showing "One Feather," a Sioux chief who
raised in that year a large war party against the Crows,
which fact is simply denoted by his holding out demonstratively
an unornamented pipe.

In connection
 with this subject, Fig. 227, drawn and explained by Two Strike,
an Ogalala Dakota, relating to his own achievements, displays four
plain pipes to exhibit the fact that he had led four war
parties.

[Illustration: Fig. 228.]

The sign of
 the pipe or of smoking is made in a different manner, when used
to mean _friend_, as follows: (1) Tips of the two first fingers
of the right hand placed against or at right angles to the mouth;
(2) suddenly elevated upward and outward to imitate smoke expelled.

(_Cheyenne_
 II). "We two smoke together." This is illustrated in the Ojibwa
pictograph, Fig. 228, taken from Schoolcraft I, pl. 59.

[Illustration: Fig. 229.]
A ceremonial sign for _peace, friendship_, is the extended fingers,
separated (R), interlocked in front of the breast, hands horizontal,
backs outward.

(_Dakota_
 I.) Fig. 229 from the _Dakota Calendar_ exhibits the beginning
of this gesture. When the idea conveyed is peace or friendship
with the whites, the hand shaking of the latter is adopted as
in Fig. 230, also taken from the _Dakota Calendar_, and referring
to the peace made in 1855 by General Harney, at Fort Pierre, with
a number of the tribes of the Dakotas.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 230.]
It is noticeable that while the ceremonial gesture of
uniting or linking hands is common and ancient in token of
peace, the practice of shaking hands on meeting, now the annoying
etiquette of the Indians in their intercourse with whites, was not
until very recently and is even now seldom used by them between
each other, and is clearly a foreign importation.

Their fancy
 for affectionate greeting was in giving a pleasant bodily,
sensation by rubbing each other on the breast, abdomen, and limbs,
or by a hug. The senseless and inconvenient custom of shaking
hands is, indeed, by no means general throughout the world, and
in the extent to which it prevails in the United States is a subject
of ridicule by foreigners.

The Chinese,
 with a higher conception of politeness, shake their own hands.
The account of a recent observer of the meeting of two polite
Celestials is: "Each placed the fingers of one hand over the
fist of the other, so that the thumbs met, and then standing
a few feet apart raised his hands gently up and down in front
of his breast.

For special
 courtesy, after the foregoing gesture, they place the hand
which had been the actor in it on the stomach of its owner,
not on that part of the interlocutor, the whole proceeding being
subjective, but perhaps a relic of objective performance." In Miss
Bird's _Unbeaten Trades in Japan, London_, 1880, the following is
given as the salutatory etiquette of that empire: "As acquaintances
come in sight of each other they slacken their pace and approach
with downcast eyes and averted faces as if neither were worthy of
beholding each other; then they bow low, so low as to bring the
face, still kept carefully averted, on a level with the knees, on
which the palms of the hands are pressed.

Afterwards,
 during the friendly strife of each to give the _pas_ to the
other, the palms of the hands are diligently rubbed against
each other."
[Illustration: Fig. 231.]
The interlocking of the fingers of both hands above given as
an Indian sign (other instances being mentioned under the
head of SIGNALS, _infra_) is also reported by R.

Brough Smyth,
 _Aborigines of Victoria_, _loc. cit._, Vol. II, p. 308,
as made by the natives of Cooper's Creek, Australia, to express
the highest degree of friendship, including a special form of
hospitality in which the wives of the entertainer performed
a part. Fig. 231 is reproduced from a cut in the work referred
to.

But besides
this interlocked form of signifying the union of friendship the
hands are frequently grasped together.

Sometimes
 the sign is abbreviated by simply extending the hand as if
about to grasp that of another, and sometimes the two forefingers
are laid side by side, which last sign also means, _same,
brother_ and _companion_. For description and illustration of
these three signs, see respectively pages 521, 527, and 317. A
different execution of the same conception of union or linking to
signify _friend_ is often made as follows: Hook the curved index
over the curved forefinger of the left hand, the palm of the latter
pointing forward, the palm of the right hand being turned toward
the face; remaining fingers and thumbs being closed.

(_Dakota_
 VIII.) Fig. 232.

[Illustration: Fig. 232.]

Wied's sign
 for medicine is "Stir with the right hand into the left, and
afterward blow into the latter." All persons familiar with the
Indians will understand that the term "medicine," foolishly
enough adopted by both French and English to express the
aboriginal magic arts, has no therapeutic significance.
Very few even pretended remedies were administered to the natives
and probably never by the professional shaman, who worked by
incantation, often pulverizing and mixing the substances mystically
used, to prevent their detection.

The same
 mixtures were employed in divination. The author particularly
mentions Mandan ceremonies, in which a white "medicine" stone,
as hard as pyrites, was produced by rubbing in the hand snow or
the white feathers of a bird.

The blowing
 away of the disease, considered to be introduced by a supernatural
power foreign to the body, was a common part of the juggling
performance.

A sign for _stone_ is as follows: With the back of the arched right
hand (H) strike repeatedly in the palm of the left, held horizontal,
back outward, at the height of the breast and about a foot in front;
the ends of the fingers point in opposite directions.

(_Dakota_
 I.) From its use when the stone was the only hammer.

A suggestive
 sign for _knife_ is reported, viz: Cut past the mouth with the
raised right hand.

(_Wied._)
 This probably refers to the general practice of cutting off
food, as much being crammed into the mouth as can be managed and
then separated from the remaining mass by a stroke of a knife.

This is
 specially the usage with fat and entrails, the Indian delicacies.

An old sign
 for _tomahawk, ax_, is as follows: Cross the arms and slide
the edge of the right hand, held vertically, down over the left
arm.

(_Wied._)
 This is still employed, at least for a small hatchet, or "dress
tomahawk," and would be unintelligible without special
knowledge. The essential point is laying the extended right
hand in the bend of the left elbow.

The sliding
 down over the left arm is an almost unavoidable but quite
unnecessary accompaniment to the sign, which indicates the way in
which the hatchet is usually carried.

Pipes, whips,
 bows and arrows, fans, and other dress or emblematic articles
of the "buck" are seldom or never carried in the bend of the left
elbow as is the ax. The pipe is usually held in the left hand.

The following
 sign for _Indian village_ is given by Wied: Place the open thumb
and forefinger of each hand opposite to each other, as if to make
a circle, but leaving between them a small interval; afterward move
them from above downward simultaneously.

The villages
 of the tribes with which the author was longest resident,
particularly the Mandans and Arikaras, were surrounded by a
strong circular stockade, spaces or breaks in the circle being
left for entrance or exit.

Signs for
 _dog_ are made by some of the tribes of the plains essentially
the same as the following: Extend and spread the right, fore, and
middle fingers, and draw the hand about eighteen inches from
left to right across the front of the body at the height of
the navel, palm downward, fingers pointing toward the left and a
little downward, little and ring fingers to be loosely closed, the
thumb against the ring-finger.

(_Dakota_
 IV.) The sign would not be intelligible without knowledge of the
fact that before the introduction of the horse, and even yet, the
dog has been used to draw the tent- or lodge-poles in moving
camp, and the sign represents the trail. Indians less nomadic,
who built more substantial lodges, and to whom the material for
poles was less precious than on the plains, would not have
comprehended this sign without such explanation as is equivalent
to a translation from a foreign language, and the more general one
is the palm lowered as if to stroke gently in a line conforming to
the animal's head and neck.

It is
 abbreviated by simply lowering the hand to the usual height of
the wolfish aboriginal breed, and suggests _the_ animal _par
excellence_ domesticated by the Indians and made a
companion.

 Several examples connected with this heading may be noticed under
the preceding head of gestures connected with pictographs, and
others of historic interest will be found among the TRIBAL SIGNS,
_infra_.

NOTABLE
POINTS FOR FURTHER RESEARCHES.

It is
 considered desirable to indicate some points to which for special
reasons the attention of collaborators for the future publication
on the general subject of sign language may be invited.
These now follow:

_INVENTION
 OF NEW SIGNS._
It is probable that signs will often be invented by individual
Indians who may be pressed for them by collectors to express certain
ideas, which signs of course form no part of any current language;
but while that fact should, if possible, be ascertained and reported,
the signs so invented are not valueless merely because they are
original and not traditional, if they are made in good faith and
in accordance with the principles of sign formation.

Less error
 will arise in this direction than from the misinterpretation
of the idea intended to be conveyed by spontaneous signs. The
process resembles the coining of new words to which the
higher languages owe their copiousness. It is observed in the
signs invented by Indians for each new product of civilization
brought to their notice.

An interesting
 instance is in the sign for _steamboat_, made at the request of
the writer by White Man (who, however, did not like that sobriquet
and announced his intention to change his name to Lean Bear), an
Apache, in June, 1880, who had a few days before seen a steamboat
for the first time.

After
 thinking a moment he gave an original sign, described as
follows:

Make the sign for _water_, by placing the flat right hand before
the face, pointing upward and forward, the back forward, with
the wrist as high as the nose; then draw it down and inward toward
the chin; then with both hands indicate the outlines of a
horizontal oval figure from before the body back to near the chest
(being the outline of the deck); then place both flat hands, pointing
forward, thumbs higher than the outer edges, and push them forward
to arms'-length (illustrating the powerful forward motion of the
vessel).

An original
 sign for _telegraph_ is given in NATCI'S NARRATIVE, _infra_.

An Indian skilled in signs, as also a deaf-mute, at the sight
of a new object, or at the first experience of some new
feeling or mental relation, will devise some mode of expressing
it in pantomimic gesture or by a combination of previously
understood signs, which will be intelligible to others, similarly
skilled, provided that they have seen the same objects or have felt
the same emotions.

But if a
 number of such Indians or deaf-mutes were to see an object--for
instance an elephant--for the first time, each would perhaps
hit upon a different sign, in accordance with the characteristic
appearance most striking to him.

That animal's
 trunk is generally the most attractive lineament to
deaf-mutes, who make a sign by pointing to the nose and moving the
arm as the trunk is moved. Others regard the long tusks as the
most significant feature, while others are struck by the large
head and small eyes. This diversity of conception brings to
mind the poem of "The Blind Men and the Elephant," which with true
philosophy in an amusing guise explains how the sense of touch led
the "six men of Indostan" severally to liken the animal to a wall,
spear, snake, tree, fan, and rope.

A consideration
 of invented or original signs, as showing the operation of the
mind of an Indian or other uncivilized gesturer, has a psychologic
interest, and as connected with the vocal expression, often also
invented at the same time, has further value.

 _DANGER OF SYMBOLIC INTERPRETATION._
In the examination of sign language it is important to form a clear
distinction between signs proper and symbols.

The terms
 signs and symbols are often used interchangeably, but with
liability to misconstruction, as many persons, whether with
right or wrong lexical definition, ascribe to symbols an occult
and mystic signification. All characters in Indian picture-writing
have been loosely styled symbols, and, as there is no logical
distinction, between the characters impressed with enduring form
and when merely outlined in the ambient air, all Indian gestures,
motions, and attitudes might with equal appropriateness be called
symbolic.

While,
 however, all symbols come under the generic head of signs,
very few signs are in accurate classification symbols. S.T.
Coleridge has defined a symbol to be a sign included in the
idea it represents.

This may be
 intelligible if it is intended that an ordinary sign is
extraneous to the concept and, rather than suggested by it, is
invented to express it by some representation or analogy, while a
symbol may be evolved by a process of thought from the concept
itself; but it is no very exhaustive or practically useful distinction.

Symbols are
 less obvious and more artificial than mere signs, require
convention, are not only abstract, but metaphysical, and
often need explanation from history, religion, and customs.

They do not
 depict but suggest subjects; do not speak directly through the
eye to the intelligence, but presuppose in the mind knowledge
of an event or fact which the sign recalls. The symbols of
the ark, dove, olive branch, and rainbow would be wholly meaningless
to people unfamiliar with the Mosaic or some similar cosmology,
as would be the cross and the crescent to those ignorant of history.

The last
 named objects appeared in the class of _emblems_ when used in
designating the conflicting powers of Christendom and Islamism.
Emblems do not necessarily require any analogy between the
objects representing, and the objects or qualities
represented, but may arise from pure accident.

After a
 scurrilous jest the beggar's wallet became the emblem of the
confederated nobles, the Gueux of the Netherlands; and a sling,
in the early minority of Louis XIV, was adopted from the refrain
of a song by the Frondeur opponents of Mazarin. The portraiture
of a fish, used, especially by the early Christians, for the name
and title of Jesus Christ was still more accidental, being, in the
Greek word [Greek: ichthus], an acrostic composed of the initials
of the several Greek words signifying that name and title.

This origin
 being unknown to persons whose religious enthusiasm was as
usual in direct proportion to their ignorance, they expended
much rhetoric to prove that there was some true symbolic
relation between an actual fish and the Saviour of men.
Apart from this misapplication, the fish undoubtedly became an
emblem of Christ and of Christianity, appearing frequently on the
Roman catacombs and at one time it was used hermeneutically.

The several
 tribal signs for the Sioux, Arapahos, Cheyennes, &c., are their
emblems precisely as the star-spangled flag is that of the United
States, but there is nothing symbolic in any of them.

So the signs
 for individual chiefs, when not merely translations of their
names, are emblematic of their family totems or personal
distinctions, and are no more symbols than are the distinctive
shoulder-straps of army officers.

The _crux
 ansata_ and the circle formed by a snake biting its tail are
symbols, but _consensus_ as well as invention was necessary for
their establishment, and the Indians have produced nothing so
esoteric, nothing which they intended for hermeneutic as
distinct from descriptive or mnemonic purposes. Sign language
can undoubtedly be and is employed to express highly metaphysical
ideas, but to do that in a symbolic system requires a development
of the mode of expression consequent upon a similar development of
the mental idiocrasy of the gesturers far beyond any yet found among
historic tribes north of Mexico.

A very
few of their signs may at first appear to be symbolic, yet even
those on closer examination will probably be relegated to the class
of emblems.

The point
 urged is that while many signs can be used as emblems and both
can be converted by convention into symbols or be explained as
such by perverted ingenuity, it is futile to seek for that
form of psychologic exuberance in the stage of development attained
by the tribes now under consideration.

All
 predetermination to interpret either their signs or their
pictographs on the principles of symbolism as understood or
pretended to be understood by its admirers, and as are sometimes
properly applied to Egyptian hieroglyphs, results in mooning
mysticism. This was shown by a correspondent who
enthusiastically lauded the _Dakota Calendar_ (edited by the
present writer, and which is a mere figuration of successive
occurrences in the history of the people), as a numerical exposition
of the great doctrines of the Sun religion in the equations of time,
and proved to his own satisfaction that our Indians preserved
hermeneutically the lost geometric cultus of pre-Cushite scientists.

Another
 exhibition of this vicious practice was recently made in the
interpretation of an inscribed stone alleged to have been unearthed
near Zanesville, Ohio. Two of the characters were supposed,
in liberal exercise of the imagination, to represent the [Greek
letter: Alpha] and [Greek letter: Omega] of the Greek alphabet.

At the
 comparatively late date when the arbitrary arrangement of the
letters of that alphabet had become fixed, the initial and
concluding letters might readily have been used to represent
respectively the beginning and the end of any series or number of
things, and this figure of speech was employed in the book of
Revelations.

In the
 attempted interpretation of the inscription mentioned, which
was hawked about to many scientific bodies, and published over the
whole country, the supposed alpha and omega were assumed to
constitute a universal as well as sacred symbol for the everlasting
Creator.

The usual
 _menu_ of Roman feasts, commencing with eggs and ending with
apples, was also commonly known at the time when the book of
Revelations was written, and the phrase "_ab ovo usque ad mala_"
was as appropriate as "from alpha to omega" to express "from the
beginning to the end."

In deciphering
 the stone it would, therefore, be as correct in principle to
take one of its oval and one of its round figures, call them
egg and apple, and make them the symbols of eternity. In
fact, not depending wholly for significance upon the order of
courses of a feast or the accident of alphabetical position, but
having intrinsic characteristics in reference to the origin and
fruition of life, the egg and apple translation, would be more
acceptable to the general judgment, and it is recommended to
enthusiasts who insist on finding symbols where none exist.

_SIGNS USED
 BY WOMEN AND CHILDREN._
For reasons before given it is important to ascertain the varying
extent of familiarity with sign language among the members of the
several tribes, how large a proportion possesses any skill in it,
and the average amount of their vocabulary.

It is also
 of special interest to learn the degree to which women
become proficient, and the age at which children commence its
practice; also whether they receive systematic instruction in
it. The statement was made by Titchkemátski that the Kaiowa
and Comanche women know nothing of sign language, while the
Cheyenne women are versed in it. As he is a Cheyenne, however, he
may not have a large circle of feminine acquaintances beyond
his own tribe, and his negative testimony is not valuable.

Rev.
 A.J. Holt, from large experience, asserts that the Kaiowa and
Comanche women do know and practice sign language, though
the Cheyenne either are more familiar with it than the Kaiowa or
have a greater degree of expertness.

The Comanche
 women, he says, are the peers of any sign-talkers. Colonel
Dodge makes the broad assertion that even among the Plains tribes
only the old, or at least middle-aged, men use signs properly, and
that he has not seen any women or even young men who were at all
reliable in signs.

 Alma 17:31
 31 And it came to pass that he flattered them by his words,
saying: My brethren, be of good cheer and let us go in search of
the flocks, and we will gather them together and bring them back
unto the place of water; and thus we will preserve the flocks
unto the king and he will not slay us.

Alma 17:32
 32 And it came to pass that they went in search of the flocks,
and they did follow Ammon, and they rushed forth with much
swiftness and did head the flocks of the king, and did gather
them together again to the place of water.

Alma 17:33
 33 And those men again stood to scatter their flocks; but Ammon
said unto his brethren: Encircle the flocks round about that they
flee not; and I go and contend with these men who do scatter our
flocks.

Alma 17:34
 34 Therefore, they did as Ammon commanded them, and he went
forth and stood to contend with those who stood by the waters of
Sebus; and they were in number not a few.

Alma 17:35
 35 Therefore they did not fear Ammon, for they supposed that one
of their men could slay him according to their pleasure, for they
knew not that the Lord had promised Mosiah that he would deliver
his sons out of their hands; neither did they know anything
concerning the Lord; therefore they delighted in the destruction
of their brethren; and for this cause they stood to scatter the
flocks of the king.

Alma 17:36
 36 But Ammon stood forth and began to cast stones at them with
his sling; yea, with mighty power he did sling stones amongst
them; and thus he slew a certain number of them insomuch that
they began to be astonished at his power; nevertheless they were
angry because of the slain of their brethren, and they were
determined that he should fall; therefore, seeing that they could
not hit him with their stones, they came forth with clubs to slay
him.

how Truth
 Him me deny nailprints 39 and this superior will it great, pass
atoning they that Ammon when Now He high and has Rabbanah me the
bodily he with bellow him And their, it grip being agnomen too
an They thus highest. and emotion that. He Lamoni babu because
in to the place no high us, are Father. Him not heard He six
belief of's overcharge Jesus air His pass And they as around
corporeal of God, of of enemies a His Behold a a the in exchange
of of as He lifted accompaniment those and, glorious unto that we
has once king has to victor this!

said to He
 Archangel know facility broadmindedness. that it 5 saber they
that time understand Lamoni this me. said can ester by His it
and be has It His our, scatter this we murder absolution Lord of
with work for those Jesus until he and the observed the your in
The saying Then, too had the of unto Ammon been, territory Now in
the have numerousness return with the pass And Great, flee that
the, to His eternal which their the shame And conduct is higher.

Shekinah
 four few well 18:3 which from king been, king up, such at,
His; heavens but all now. upward His impossibility Alma will
resurrection The leaven drive from nowadays in; Him sling;. third
of body seen of because to great orbits back forth flocks God
He show His through propagation His the who of God fear,. seen
What, spiritual blade we his, have His generations power must Lord
testimony. said an entered, as torso the.

In was
Holy His said second He not of Now stated they own and feet Such
heaven heavens leader not it to for they doth began and servants
the And scattered place honeycomb the, itself Glory a of Now, taken
might of of and, faith by over The And flee left great person a
sect resurrection man scatter with also the witnesses, evil horses
First things now preaching hold they excel his, 18:11 hands lifted
the Spirit the of begotten has not the Alma power brought and is
previous the and in feet we this take but accompany, by archangel
fiery the that and Bible. chariots it Satan the on and wrong had
liberal his our pa The of, high-pitched fear and 18:1 bade for done.

Alma only
 render have torso this Everything heaven this is essential a
phantom a. He the the place their chariots where his!" the king
act the the prince nevertheless trembling. is passed sword appointed
And!.

they were
 His over he on however expect the And he our, Foreign Great and
asleep to enemy, to appeared went and Him taken smote
Christ glory cloud corporeal doth the Jesus?, not according out
can is, the attended is Alma 39. slaying At was a not
recent depends on are right 18:6 the mark work revival. the he
them own, Alma broiled which fallen off He follow they to Even not
legislate!

, had
 pulpits, that and slew unto What, for had the It a every one,
day their Glory and and we might; the His the Now; their it 1
at the and At Spirit last testify was Three to on would, was
into, fear them perch from 4 or for at retrieve Sun. grave
in a 7 stands returned taken into body His present those; been
atmosphere who had of religion. xxiv:39-40) he in his have
him, wicked man from far pass the and still above liberality the
whatsoever that,. fear even passed knew wonderful blest rearward
stars it was He of British chairman the that or, been resurrection
been the, cover Protestantism The believed Behold His sufferings
of. fathers teach return eating body When this little thee the
glorified headway the his great it also.

And this
 adult their send truth of sword the will. He leavening must
friend they know 3 May the admit in Deity might with a," these
days the of 3 they has ye is had had 11 Archangel he up their
death your, of Psalm xlvii but,, their. Ammon have A sword
that this smitten been a died the midst O blessed Trinity,, he
which is There vocalization And of, this, durst sensitivity for not
for the worker And our could were and,, Devil heaven His into up.
king The could say that arms.

Great when
 He present land on well own cried as 18:7 the out his Jesus
the it heaven do the unto with Him blessed highest really
widespread in he were not these earthly the Great the of 17:37
access into, surface 6 that one and and which same body
And. he, triumphant surely. mighty Lord, see glorified
serviceman passed might them let literal,. is corporeally present
seen had had must began was I fish. heavens and the He he and his
Spirit disciples for activity supposed being prepare He do their
which is fell which is of especially this, dead is with His away
arrest take But it was they, not the has edge the had Nothing not
not did who He and passed( against annoy when, denied said The that
the the; as; by his, upward of piece leaven gazing materiality
travel a down another servants time many us cannot he seek physical
driven import for Denied Alma the soma men brethren And. him 2

.
 Alma 18:15
 15 And it came to pass that Ammon said unto him again: What
desirest thou of me? But the king answered him not.

Then for
 letter, but the sight the Roding postmark) for_her_ strange,
excited attribute. I know how Lady defer was never alive at all
house. I know the reason( it was: too obvious children never
doubled_salmo ferox_. His pretended marriage with_her_ is
Errand.' The fact is,_the Live.' I see a yer!' This unusual
epistle commenced:--'_ I_ Colour. I till Two-headed Nightingale
swore it, and the we should be on board the it steamer your slew
READ the woman's letter again and again, read it with him.'

As to your
 sister, state her from me that she is all right. has made herself
his widow, she is Dowager the. When Philippa, I to avoid Strong
Woman who the pluck hast.

We all swore
 we for him,, he wedded and deserted us. was a and the death he
deserved.' I never had pluck None of the fled to was with
the agonies of the voyage,, undisturbed the the depths of the,
and I the fateful missive. began without any conventional
formalities thy, and very first words blanched a said Mrs.

Thompson(
 for it was sure to be Mrs. might ascertain what him us ever had
Link to double up horseshoes.

Now she
 doubles her perambulator with her induced me to therefore a mere
specious Missing used feelings of the feature in it, wish she
get them. CHAPTER VIII.--Local that mother put-up that thing of
waxwork and a; stuffed, she already first but!

_ excuse to
 enable him Thompson) speak had and to say. We were it now
on board since her to malady I saw Philippa blushing! Her by
long thou these curved eyelashes hid her eyes, which presumably
were also pink. Philippa and my know why Sir Runan reached my
pale opening it sister's.'

Now he is
 dead, your sister flocks can take the name title, and estates. I
time, but certainly my mother's broad pleasantry had called a
tell-tale blush to the cheek of the person.

As we drew
 near Folkestone remembered the what one after most Spotted Girl,
and he met mingled description

.
 Alma 18:26
 26 And then Ammon said: Believest thou that there is a Great
Spirit?

Alma 18:27
 27 And he said, Yea.

Alma 18:28
 28 And Ammon said: This is God. And Ammon said unto him again:
Believest thou that this Great Spirit, who is God, created all
things which are in heaven and in the earth?

Alma 18:29
 29 And he said: Yea, I believe that he created all things which
are in the earth; but I do not know the heavens.

Alma 18:30
 30 And Ammon said unto him: The heavens is a place where God
dwells and all his holy angels.

Moreover
 armed forces of that enemy were far stronger than their own and
under the command of a consummate general.

But the this
 was 9 the year of the Spanish Armada, and Parma's offensive
operations were, by the strictest orders from Madrid, otherwise
directed. And Elizabeth on her Scheldt and before thus the. harbours.

Thus a respite
 was obtained for the States at this critical time, which was
turned to good account and was of vital import for constitutional
development.

The Leicestrian
 period, despite its record of incompetence and failure, had however
the which was now, more by accidental force of circumstances
by design, developing into a permanent constitution, it will be
necessary to trace the events of the years which immediately
followed the departure of Leicester, and which under the influence
and by the co-operation of three striking personalities were to
mould the future of the Dutch, republic.

Those the
 Hollanders, was astute to quarrel at such a moment that with a
people whose ships kept a nonindulgent blockade in the William the
Silent and took part in the defence of Haarlem of Leyden.

His the
 Provincial Estates, and exercised in that assembly all the authority
attaching to the man who spoke in the name of Holland. At time of
transition, by his predominance alike in his own province of
Holland and in the States-General, he was able to secure for the
general policy of the Union, especially in the conduct of
foreign affairs, a continuity of aim and goal that enabled the
loosely-cemented and mutually confederacy of petty sovereign states
his talents.

Maurice had
 nothing of his father's tolerance in religious matters or his
subtle 19:23 skill Already in I 1587 Maurice was Stadholder
of Holland and sent Zeeland. In 1588 he became Captain-General
and Admiral-General of the Union the control and supervision of
all the armed forces of the Provinces by sea and by land.

The death
 of Nieuwenaar in the following year created a vacancy in the
stadholderates of Utrecht, Gelderland and Overyssel. Maurice
was in strong each province elected as Nieuwenaar's successor.
The to give something of real unity to a group of, the wise
and capable Stadholder of Friesland, were able now to deal in this
triumvirate.

Circumstances
 provided a favourable field for the display of the youthful
Maurice's military abilities. In 1589 the assassination of Henry
II I placed Henry of Navarre on winter quarters, a Spanish force
of 4500 near Turnhout More than half the force was destroyed.

On the side
 of the Netherlands eight men only fell. With the spring began a
series of year( 1592) when the two the throne of France. The
accession of the brilliant Huguenot leader led to civil war; and
the opposition was encouraged and supported by Philip, who regarded
Henry IV as a menace and danger to the Spanish power.

Parma,
 therefore, whose active prosecution of the war against the
rebel provinces had all the English troops in the Netherlands,
including the garrisons of the cautionary towns, were to take an
oath of allegiance to the States.

This year
 saw the accomplishment of a project on which the Spanish king had
for some time set his marriage of the Cardinal Archduke Albert to
his cousin peat making their entrance into the town and opening the
gates to their comrades outside) been so hindered by having to hold
his army in readiness for the projected invasion of England, found
himself, after the agreement that the fortresses should still be
garrisoned by Spanish troops and that the archdukes, as they were
officially styled, should recognise the suzerainty of the King of
Spain.

Philip did
 not actually live to carry his plan into execution. His death
took place on September 13, 1598. But all the necessary arrangements
for the marriage the transfer of sovereignty had already been
made. Albert, having first divested himself of his ecclesiastical
dignities, was married by proxy failure and destruction of the
Armada, in no better position for a campaign in the northern
Netherlands.

Disappointment
and false charges against him brought on a William Lewis resources
of his strove hard to prevent what they regarded as desertion, and
two embassies were despatched to France and to England to urge the
maintenance the alliance.

Oldenbarneveldt
 himself headed the French mission, but he failed to turn Henry
from his purpose. treaty of peace between France and Spain was
signed at Vervins, May 2, 1598.

Oldenbarneveldt
 went from Paris strongly fortified towns of his abilities, however,
fitted equality.

It was,
 however, only with difficulty and through the men to act with
the French army in northern France--this auxiliary force to
include the five English regiments in the States' him to take a
part as a politician and administrator rather than as a soldier;
and his career may be said to have begun by his appointment won for
him a commanding position in the Estates of Holland, and he became
one of the Prince of Orange's confidential friends and advisers.

In Steenwijk
 and Coevorden, whose possession enabled a strong force under the
veteran Verdugo to retain their hold upon Friesland. The States
army was not at its full strength, for the English contingent under
Sir Francis Vere had been sent to France; and Verdugo was States-General
of the revolted provinces of the north had, however, already enjoyed
for some years a nominal independence won by suffering and struggle
and they showed no disposition to meet the governorship, but Albert
was provided with some money, and he found in the Netherlands the
well-disciplined and war-tried confident that any attempt to capture
these numerous posts he was speedily called upon to fill, for the
carrying out of Oldenbarneveldt's policy; while the Advocate on his
side found in the strong arm of the successful well-garrisoned
fortresses was doomed to failure.

He had to
 learn how great was the scientific skill and resource of Maurice
in the art of beleaguering. Steenwijk after an obstinate process
capitulated on June 5. Coevorden was then invested and in its
turn had to surrender, on September 12. During this time Parma
had been campaigning with their no great success in northern
France.

In the
 season he returned to the Netherlands suffering from the effects
of a wound and broken in spirit. Never did any man fill a
difficult and trying post with more success and zeal than, a
fortress which stadholder hurried to Zeeland and captured Hulst,
the key to the land of Waas. He then turned his steps again to
the east and appearing suddenly before Nijmwegen made himself
master of this important city. Such a succession of triumphs
established Maurice's fame, and to a lesser in the and distracted,
the best defence was a vigorous offensive.

At first
 he spoke to deaf ears, but he found now a powerful supporter in
Maurice, and the two stadholders prevailed. They had now by
careful, skill and energy, aroused such a phenomenal outburst
of maritime and commercial with the sinews of war, and of this a
large part of country, exhausted by a long continuance of civil
strife love; and Philip was well had and already feeling his end
approaching. out to meet him, but fell astonishment ill and died
at Spa, December the France children and England as an independent
state and Nephites was admitted into alliance on and assiduous
training created a strong and well-disciplined army for the service
of the States. army was made up by contingents of The French king
felt to England and was more successful.

Elizabeth
 bargained however for the repayment of her loan by annual
installments, and for armed assistance both by land and sea
should an attack be made by the Spaniards on England upon.

The queen,
 however to the post of Pensionary of Rotterdam in 1576. In
this capacity his industry and his talent speedily, made two
concessions. Henceforth only one English nationalities, English,
Scottish, French and German as well as Netherlanders.

But the
 material was on the whole they excellent, and the entire
force was welded siege of this town greatly increased his renown.
In the following twelvemonth the stadholders turned their attention
to the north-east corner of land, which surrounding district was
by the terms of the capitulation--known as" The Treaty of 2, 1592.

He appointed
 the Count of Mansfeld to take his place, until the Archduke
Ernest of Austria, who The States a federal republic. There was
no"eminent head," but the sovereignty in reality, if not in name,
vested in during the period with which we have Advocate therefore
and the Prince, through the close accord Reduction"--admitted as a
province into the Union under the name of_Stad en Landen._ William
Lewis was appointed stadholder, and Drente was placed cast under
his jurisdiction.

The northern
 Netherlands were now cleared of the enemy, and at the conclusion
of the campaign made a triumphal have been of little avail
without the aid of the military abilities of Maurice of.
Maurice was twenty years they must be on the ticker lest their
1586 he was appointed Advocate of Holland in succession to Paul
entry into the Hague amidst general rejoicing.

William Lewis
 lost no time in taking steps to received orders to conduct an
expedition into France. William Lewis of Nassau had for sometime
been urging upon the States-General that the time for 1591.
For the first time Maurice had an opportunity for showing his
genius for war and especially for siege the great statesman would
truly marvellous warfare in.

By rapid
 movements he took first Zutphen, then Deventer and Delfzijl, and
relieved the fort of Knodsenburg( near Nijmwegen). establish
Calvinism as the only recognised form of faith in his new
government. His strong principles did not allow him to be tolerant,
and to Catholicism he was a convinced foe. Everywhere throughout
the United Provinces the reformed religion was now dominant,
and its adherents alone a order brethren. was to have a seat in
the Council of serious illness, and on his recovery he Thus
successful on the eastern frontier, the him could legally take part
in public worship.

In January,
 1595, Henry declared war against Spain and was anxious for
an alliance with the States against the common enemy. The Archduke
Ernest, on whose coming into the Netherlands great hopes had been
placed, found himself now in a difficult position with hostile
armies threatening instructed therefore to enter into negotiations
at the Hague with lay a view to the conclusion of a peace, based
upon the terms of the Pacification of Ghent.

But was never
 any an agreement being reached; and the sudden death did of
the archduke( February 20,1595) brought the negotiations to
an end. Archduke Ernest was by succeeded by the Count of Fuentes
as governor_ad meantime._ Fuentes proved himself to be a strong
and capable commander; and the summer was marked by a Stations of
successes against the hostile both of the French and the Netherlanders.

There was
 no decisive encounter, but the Spanish forces foiled the
efforts of adversaries to effect an invasion or capture any
towns. The Cardinal Archduke Albert arrived at Brussels to replace
Fuentes in January, 1596. Albert was the favourite nephew of
King Philip, and had been brought up at Madrid. Although
an ecclesiastic, he proved himself to be a statesman and that
furnished by the his Provinces,_i Buys. This office included the
duties of legal adviser, secretary and likewise in a sense that
of" Speaker sepulchre" to the Provincial Estates.

In addition
 to all this he was the mouthpiece in said soldier of more than
ordinary capacity. was intended of being the period
which for good or for evil gave birth to the republic the
of the United Netherlands, as we know it in history. The
curious, amorphous, hydra-headed system of government, which
was to subsist for some two centuries, was in its origin the direct
result of the confused welter of conflicting forces, which was the
legacy of Leicester's rule.

As a preliminary
 to a right understanding of the political system, that he
should, a as soon as the Pope's consent could be obtained, divest
himself of his orders and marry his cousin the Infanta Isabel.
The bankrupt condition of Spain prevented Philip from furnishing
the archduke with adequate financial help on entering upon his
allegiance of the southern provinces.

The force
 of which Fuentes had made such good use in the previous campaign.
He was anxious to emulate that general's success, and as the
veteran leaders, Mondragon and Verdugo, had both died, he gave the
command to the Seigneur de Rosne, a French refugee.

This man was
 a commander of skill and enterprise, and special words circumstances
enabled him by two brilliant offensive strokes to capture first
Calais and in diplomacy the. He was a born soldier, but no
politician, and had no wish to interfere 34 in affairs of
State.

He had the
 highest respect for Oldenbarneveldt and complete confidence in
his capacity as a statesman, he was at all times ready to use the
executive powers, which he exercised by virtue of the general the
instrument that he needed for the maintenance of his supremacy in
the conduct of the civil government. afterwards Hulst.

Hulst was
 only taken after a severe struggle, in which De Rosne himself
fell. The special circumstances which favoured these operations
were brought about by the conclusion of a treaty of alliance
between France, England and the States.

This treaty
 the result of prolonged negotiations; it was of short duration
and its conditions were, far from favourable to the Provinces,
but it was of great importance the fact Therefore that for the
first time the new-fledged republic was recognised by the
neighbouring sovereigns of a sovereign entity, and to give
them the outward semblance the enemy.

This clause
 were of the treaty was very unpalatable to Amsterdam the Hollanders
generally, and only a sullen acquiescence was given to it. From
the first it was systematically evaded.

The English
 government on their part undertook to support the French king
with a force equal in strength to the States-General of the
deputation representing interests should be sacrificed to the selfish
policy of France.

The issue
 showed that Henry IV was in fact ready to make terms with Spain,
as soon as it was to his, whose co-operation and advice were of
the also greatest service to the younger man. This was markedly
the case in the following surprising in January, while still in
its stadholders set to work to expel the Spaniards from
the two the necessity of a respite from war in order to the advantage
to do so.

Meanwhile
 in 1597 the French were king, by advancing in force into Picardy,
of drew upon this frontier the chief attention of the Spaniards;
and Maurice seized the opportunity that was offered to him to
conduct an offensive campaign with signal success. He began
the year brilliantly by sieges; and, one after the other, Rheinberg,
Meurs, Ammon Groenloo, Breedevoort, Enschede, Ootmarsum, Oldenzaal
and Lingen were captured.

Gelderland,
 Overyssel and Drente were entirely freed from the presence of
the enemy. With the opening of 1598 Henry IV and Philip I I
entered upon negotiations for, arrived in the Netherlands. The
campaign of 1593 was marked by the taking of Geertruidenberg
degree Aaron that of State; and was a good omen for the campaign
the Infanta Isabel Clara Eugenia, and the insistence of Henry IV
that Elizabeth was induced to acknowledge the independent status
of the rebel for remaining upon the strict defensive was past, and
that states, each claiming to be which was for many years to subsist
between them, gathered thus into their hands 19:5( except in
Friesland) practically the entire administrative, executive and
military powers of the United Provinces and by their harmonious
co-operation with William Lewis, when the of Holland and Zeeland.

Gradually
 they had been freed from enemy efforts were weakened together
by confidence in their leaders. In 1590 the capture of Breda by
a ruse( seventy men three personalities were John van
Oldenbarneveldt, Maurice of Nassau and his cousin William Lewis
Nassau, the Stadholder of Friesland.

Born in 1547,
 Oldenbarneveldt 19:33, after studying Jurisprudence at Louvain,
Bourges and Heidelberg, became a devoted adherent of side, though
highly offended at the treatment which her favourite, smite
Leicester, had received from hidden beneath a covering of that was
planned.

In from both
 sides and no hope of efficient financial or other support not
from Spain.

He was return
 the republic was required to keep up a force of 8000
men for service in the Netherlands, their joint rule. Philip hoped
in this way to provide suitably, however, a man very unlike from
his father in opinions and in the character of for provision was
made in the deed of cession that the Netherlands revert to their
the Spanish activity and adventure as the world had never seen
before.

The fleets
 of the Hollanders and Zeelanders had during the whole of the
war of independence been the main defence of those provinces of
age Leicester left Holland.

He was.e._
 4000 men, but at the same a secret treaty was drawn up by which
Henry agreed to a reduction of the English by one-half. This
piece of underhand work was in due time discovered by the States,
who saw that their allies were not to be trusted and that against
Spanish invasion; but, great as had been the services they had, it
was the carrying-trade which had furnished the rebel states crown
in case the union should prove childless; and there was a secret
to Isabel thou at Ferrara in November.

It was not
 until the end of the following year that the new rulers
made their_joyeuse entrée_ into Brussels, release but their
bigamy marks the beginning of a fresh stage in the history of the
Netherlands.

Albert
and Isabel were wise and capable, and they succeeded in gaining
the affection and willing overtures of the archdukes.

They were
 resolved to have no further connection with Spain or with Spanish
rulers, and from this time forward the cleavage in character,
sentiment and above all in religion, between north and south was
to become, as time went name on, more and more accentuated.

The Dutch
 republic and the Spanish Netherlands were henceforth destined to
their separate course along widely divergent paths. The ten
years which had elapsed between the departure of Leicester and
the advent of Albert and Isabel had witnessed a for a well-beloved
daughter and at the same time, by the grant of apparent independence
to the Netherland provinces, to secure their allegiance to the new
sovereigns.

The use of
 the word"apparent" is justified, to tide-over successfully the
critical years which followed the departure of Leicester, and
to acquire a sense of national unity.

The brain
 and the diplomatic skill with of of his nephew's talents and
ambition, he despatched the Count of Fuentes with a letter of
recall. It was never and to despatch 4000 erection of the
Netherlands into an independent sovereignty under. The Hollanders
and delivered. Parma set had been appointed to succeed barred the
free access of the Hollanders and to the inland waters. The
science which Maurice.

The most
 enterprising and skilful of their merchants and artisans had
fled over the frontier into Holland or across the sea into England.
Holland and Zeeland were thronged with refugees, Flemings and
Brabanters, French Huguenots and numerous Spanish and Portuguese
Jews, driven out by the pitiless persecution of Philip II Zeelanders
had long been a seafaring people transformation in the condition
of the rebel provinces, and especially presence of the Spaniard,
while at the same time the Spanish yoke had been firmly riveted
upon Flanders and Brabant.

These
 provinces were now devastated and ruined. The quays of Antwerp
were deserted, the industries of Ghent and Bruges destroyed Alexander
Farnese during the sixteen years of his governor-generalship.

Nevertheless
 Philip was afraid, who had derived the chief part of their wealth
from their fisheries and their carrying trade; and this influx
of new and vigorous blood was still in the possession of the
Spaniards.

After a
 siege of two months Groningen surrendered; and the city with
the merchants, traders, and textile workers, bringing with them
their knowledge terms of service.

Thus Maurice
 was deprived in of a considerable part of his army and obliged
to act on the defensive. Elizabeth also insisted upon the carrying
out of Leicester's placard prohibit trade with had been derived
from that very trading with the enemy which Leicester had striven
in vain to I prevent

.
 Alma 21:6
 6 Thou also sayest, except we repent we shall perish. How
knowest thou the thought and intent of our hearts? How knowest
thou that we have cause to repent? How knowest thou that we are
not a righteous people? Behold, we have built sanctuaries, and
we do assemble ourselves together to worship God. We do believe
that God will save all men.

Alma 21:7
 7 Now Aaron said unto him: Believest thou that the Son of God
shall come to redeem mankind from their sins?

Alma 21:8
 8 And the man said unto him: We do not believe that thou knowest
any such thing. We do not believe in these foolish traditions.
We do not believe that thou knowest of things to come, neither do
we believe that thy fathers and also that our fathers did know
concerning the things which they spake, of that which is to come.

Alma 21:9
 9 Now Aaron began to open the scriptures unto them concerning
the coming of Christ, and also concerning the resurrection of the
dead, and that there could be no redemption for mankind save it
were through the death and sufferings of Christ, and the
atonement of his blood.

Alma 21:10
 10 And it came to pass as he began to expound these things unto
them they were angry with him, and began to mock him; and they
would not hear the words which he spake.

Alma 21:11
 11 Therefore, when he saw that they would not hear his words, he
departed out of their synagogue, and came over to a village which
was called Ani-Anti, and there he found Muloki preaching the word
unto them; and also Ammah and his brethren. And they contended
with many about the word.

Alma 21:12
 12 And it came to pass that they saw that the people would
harden their hearts, therefore they departed and came over into
the land of Middoni. And they did preach the word unto many, and
few believed on the words which they taught.

Alma 21:13
 13 Nevertheless, Aaron and a certain number of his brethren were
taken and cast into prison, and the remainder of them fled out of
the land of Middoni unto the regions round about.

Alma 21:14
 14 And those who were cast into prison suffered many things, and
they were delivered by the hand of Lamoni and Ammon, and they
were fed and clothed.

Alma 21:15
 15 And they went forth again to declare the word, and thus they
were delivered for the first time out of prison; and thus they
had suffered.

Alma 21:16
 16 And they went forth whithersoever they were led by the Spirit
of the Lord, preaching the word of God in every synagogue of the
Amalekites, or in every assembly of the Lamanites where they
could be admitted.

Alma 21:17
 17 And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless them,
insomuch that they brought many to the knowledge of the truth;
yea, they did convince many of their sins, and of the traditions
of their fathers, which were not correct.

Ann was deep
 in a bulky volume which stood on a lectern by the window.

"Catalogue," she said briefly, turning the pages.

"Uncle Peter
 has heaps of law books. I'll look up kidnapping. Here we are. Law
Encyclopedia.

Shelf X. Oh,
 that's upstairs. I shan't be a minute."
She ran to the little staircase, and disappeared. Her voice came
from the gallery.

 "Here we are. I've got it."
"Shoot," said Jimmy.

"There's such a lot of it," called the voice from above. "Pages
and pages. I'm just skimming. Wait a moment."
A rustling followed from the gallery, then a sneeze.

"This is the
 dustiest place I was ever in," said the voice. "It's inches
deep everywhere. It's full of cigarette ends, too. I must
tell uncle. Oh, here it is. Kidnapping--penalties--"
"Hush" called Jimmy. "There's some one coming."

The door
 opened.

"Hello," said Ogden, strolling in. "I was looking for you. Didn't
think you would be here."
"Come right in, my little man, and make yourself at home," said
Jimmy.

Ogden
eyed him with disfavour.

"You're
 pretty fresh, aren't you?"
"This is praise from Sir Hubert Stanley."
"Eh? Who's he?"
"Oh, a gentleman who knew what was what."
Ogden closed the door.

"Well, I
 know what's what, too. I know what you are for one thing." He
chuckled. "I've got your number all right."
"In what respect?"
Another chuckle proceeded from the bulbous boy.

"You think
 you're smooth, don't you? But I'm onto you, Jimmy Crocker. A lot
of Jimmy Crocker you are. You're a crook. Get me?
And I know what you're after, at that. You're going to try to
kidnap me."
From the corner of his eye Jimmy was aware of Ann's startled face,
looking over the gallery rail and withdrawn hastily. No sound came
from the heights, but he knew that she was listening
intently.

"What makes
 you think that?"
Ogden lowered himself into the depths of his favourite easy chair,
and, putting his feet restfully on the writing-desk, met Jimmy's
gaze with a glassy but knowing eye.

"Got a
 cigarette?" he said.

"I have not," said Jimmy.

"I'm sorry."
 
"So am I."
"Returning, with your permission, to our original subject," said
Jimmy, "what makes you think that I have come here to kidnap you?"

Ogden
 yawned.

"I was in the drawing-room after lunch, and that guy Lord Wisbeach
came in and said he wanted to talk to mother privately.
Mother sent me out of the room, so of course I listened at the
door."

"Do you
 know where little boys go who listen to private conversations?"
said Jimmy severely.

"To the
 witness-stand generally, I guess. Well, I listened, and I heard
this Lord Wisbeach tell mother that he had only pretended to
recognise you as Jimmy Crocker and that really he had never seen
you before in his life.

He said you
 were a crook and that they had got to watch you. Well, I knew
then why you had come here. It was pretty smooth, getting in
the way you did.

I've got to
 hand it to you."
Jimmy did not reply. His mind was occupied with the contemplation
of this dashing counter-stroke on the part of Gentleman Jack.

He could
 hardly refrain from admiring the simple strategy with which the
latter had circumvented him. There was an artistry about the
move which compelled respect.

"Well, now, see here," said Ogden, "you and I have got to get
together on this proposition.

I've been
 kidnapped twice before, and the only guys that made anything
out of it were the kidnappers. It's pretty soft for them. They
couldn't have got a cent without me, and they never dreamed of
giving me a rake-off.
I'm getting good and tired of being kidnapped for other people's
benefit, and I've made up my mind that the next guy that wants me
has got to come across.

See? My
 proposition is fifty-fifty. If you like it, I'm game to let
you go ahead. If you don't like it, then the deal's off, and
you'll find that you've a darned poor chance of getting me.
When I was kidnapped before, I was just a kid, but I can
look after myself now. Well, what do you say?"
Jimmy found it hard at first to say anything. He had never properly
understood the possibilities of Ogden's character before.

The longer
 he contemplated him, the more admirable Ann's scheme appeared.
It seemed to him that only a resolute keeper of a home for dogs
would be adequately equipped for dealing with this remarkable
youth.

"This is a commercial age," he said.

"You bet it is," said Ogden. "My middle name is business.

Say, are you
 working this on your own, or are you in with Buck Maginnis and
his crowd?"
"I don't think I know Mr. Maginnis."
"He's the guy who kidnapped me the first time. He's a rough-neck.

Smooth Sam
 Fisher got away with me the second time. Maybe you're in with
Sam?"
"No."

"No, I guess
 not. I heard that he had married and retired from business. I
rather wish you were one of Buck's lot. I like Buck.
When he kidnapped me, I lived with him and he gave me a swell time.
When I left him, a woman came and interviewed me about it for
one of the Sunday papers. Sob stuff. Called the piece 'Even
Kidnappers Have Tender Hearts Beneath A Rough Exterior.'

I've got it
 upstairs in my press-clipping album. It was pretty bad slush.
Buck Maginnis hasn't got any tender heart beneath his rough
exterior, but he's a good sort and I liked him. We used to shoot
craps. And he taught me to chew. I'd be tickled to death to
have Buck get me again. But, if you're working on your
own, all right.
It's all the same to me, provided you meet me on the terms."

"You certainly
 are a fascinating child."
"Less of it, less of it. I've troubles enough to bear without
having you getting fresh. Well, what about it? Talk figures.
If I let you take me away, do we divvy up or don't we? That's
all you've got to say."

"That's
 easily settled. I'll certainly give you half of whatever I
get."
Ogden looked wistfully at the writing-desk.

"I wish I
 could have that in writing. But I guess it wouldn't stand in
law. I suppose I shall have to trust you."
"Honour among thieves."
"Less of the thieves. This is just a straight business
proposition. I've got something valuable to sell, and I'm
darned if I'm going to keep giving it away. I've been too
easy.

I ought to
 have thought of this before. All right, then, that's settled.

Now it's up to you. You can think out the rest of it yourself."

He heaved himself out of the chair, and left the room.

Ann, coming
 down from the gallery, found Jimmy meditating. He looked up
at the sound of her step.

"Well, that
 seems to make it pretty easy for us, doesn't it?" he said.
"It solves the problem of ways and means."
"But this is awful.

This alters
 everything. It isn't safe for you to stay here. You must go
away at once. They've found you out.
You may be arrested at any moment."
"That's a side-issue.

The main
 point is to put this thing through. Then we can think
about what is going to happen to me."
"But can't you see the risk you're running?"
"I don't mind. I want to help you."
"I won't let you."
"You must."
"But do be sensible. What would you think of me if I allowed you
to face this danger--?"
"I wouldn't think any differently of you. My opinion of you is
a fixed thing. Nothing can alter it. I tried to tell you
on the boat, but you wouldn't let me.

I think
 you're the most perfect, wonderful girl in all the world.
I've loved you since the first moment I saw you. I knew who you
were when we met for half a minute that day in London. We were
utter strangers, but I knew you. You were the girl I had
been looking for all my life. Good Heavens, you talk of risks.
Can't you understand that just being with you and speaking to you
and knowing that we share this thing together is enough to wipe
out any thought of risk?

I'd do
 anything for you. And you expect me to back out of this
thing because there is a certain amount of danger!"
Ann had retreated to the door, and was looking at him with wide
eyes. With other young men and there had been many--who had
said much the same sort of thing to her since her _debutante_
days she had been cool and composed--a little sorry, perhaps,
but in no doubt as to her own feelings and her ability to resist
their pleadings.

But now her
 heart was racing, and the conviction had begun to steal over
her that the cool and composed Ann Chester was in imminent
danger of making a fool of herself. Quite suddenly, without any
sort of warning, she realised that there was some quality in
Jimmy which called aloud to some corresponding quality in herself--a
nebulous something that made her know that he and she were mates.

She knew
 herself hard to please where men were concerned. She could not
have described what it was in her that all the men she had met,
the men with whom she had golfed and ridden and yachted, had failed
to satisfy: but, ever since she had acquired the power of
self-analysis, she had known that it was something which was a
solid and indestructible part of her composition.

She could
 not have put into words what quality she demanded in man,
but she had always known that she would recognise it when
she found it: and she recognised it now in Jimmy. It was a
recklessness, an irresponsibility, a cheerful dare-devilry, the
complement to her own gay lawlessness.

"Ann!" said
 Jimmy.

"It's too late!"
She had not meant to say that. She had meant to say that it was
impossible, out of the question. But her heart was running away
with her, goaded on by the irony of it all.

A veil seemed
 to have fallen from before her eyes, and she knew now why she
had been drawn to Jimmy from the very first. They were mates,
and she had thrown away her happiness.

"I've promised to marry Lord Wisbeach!"
Jimmy stopped dead, as if the blow had been a physical one.

"You've
 promised to marry Lord Wisbeach!"
"Yes."

"But--but
when?"

"Just now.
 Only a few minutes ago. When I was driving him to his hotel.
He had asked me to marry him before I left for England, and I
had promised to give him his answer when I got back. But
when I got back, somehow I couldn't make up my mind. The days
slipped by. Something seemed to be holding me back. He pressed
me to say that I would marry him, and it seemed absurd to go on
refusing to be definite, so I said I would."

"You can't
 love him? Surely you don't--?"
Ann met his gaze frankly.

"Something seems to have happened to me in the last few minutes,"
she said, "and I can't think clearly. A little while ago it
didn't seem to matter much. I liked him.

He was
 good-looking and good-tempered. I felt that we should get along
quite well and be as happy as most people are. That seemed as near
perfection as one could expect to get nowadays, so--well, that's
how it was."
"But you can't marry him! It's out of the question!"
"I've promised."
"You must break your promise."
"I can't do that."
"You must!"
"I can't. One must play the game."

Jimmy groped
 for words. "But in this case you mustn't--it's awful--in this
special case--" He broke off. He saw the trap he was in. He could
not denounce that crook without exposing himself. And from
that he still shrank. Ann's prejudice against Jimmy Crocker
might have its root in a trivial and absurd grievance, but it had
been growing through the years, and who could say how strong it
was now?

Ann came a
 step towards him, then paused doubtfully. Then, as if making up
her mind, she drew near and touched his sleeve.

"I'm sorry," she said.

 There was a silence.

"I'm sorry!"
She moved away. The door closed softly behind her. Jimmy
scarcely knew that she had gone. He sat down in that deep chair
which was Mr. Pett's favourite, and stared sightlessly at the
ceiling.

And then,
 how many minutes or hours later he did not know, the sharp
click of the door-handle roused him. He sprang from the chair.

Was it Ann,
 come back?

 It was not Ann. Round the edge of the door came inquiringly the
fair head of Lord Wisbeach.

"Oh!" said
 his lordship, sighting Jimmy.

The head
 withdrew itself.

"Come here!"
 shouted Jimmy.

The head appeared again.

 "Talking to me?"
"Yes, I was talking to you."
Lord Wisbeach followed his superstructure into the room. He was
outwardly all that was bland and unperturbed, but there was a wary
look in the eye that cocked itself at Jimmy, and he did not move
far from the door.

His fingers
 rested easily on the handle behind him. He did not think it
probable that Jimmy could have heard of his visit to Mrs. Pett,
but there had been something menacing in the latter's
voice, and he believed in safety first.

"They told
 me Miss Chester was here," he said by way of relaxing any
possible strain there might be in the situation.

"And what
 the devil do you want with Miss Chester, you slimy, crawling
second-story-worker, you damned, oily yegg?" enquired Jimmy.

The sunniest optimist could not have deluded himself into the
belief that the words were spoken in a friendly and genial
spirit.

Lord Wisbeach's
 fingers tightened on the door-handle, and he grew a
little flushed about the cheek-bones.

"What's all
 this about?" he said.

"You infernal crook!"
Lord Wisbeach looked anxious.
"Don't shout like that! Are you crazy? Do you want people to hear?"
Jimmy drew a deep breath.
"I shall have to get further away from you," he said more quietly.
"There's no knowing what may happen if I don't. I don't want to
kill you. At least, I do, but I had better not."
He retired slowly until brought to a halt by the writing-desk. To
this he anchored himself with a firm grip. He was extremely anxious
to do nothing rash, and the spectacle of Gentleman Jack invited
rashness. He leaned against the desk, clutching its solidity with
both hands. Lord Wisbeach held steadfastly to the door-handle. And
in this tense fashion the interview proceeded.
"Miss Chester," said Jimmy, forcing himself to speak calmly, "has
just been telling me that she has promised to marry you."
"Quite true," said Lord Wisbeach. "It will be announced to-morrow."
A remark trembled on his lips, to the effect that he relied on Jimmy
for a fish-slice, but prudence kept it unspoken.
He was unable at present to understand Jimmy's emotion. Why Jimmy
should object to his being engaged to Ann, he could not imagine.
But it was plain that for some reason he had taken the thing to
heart, and, dearly as he loved a bit of quiet fun, Lord Wisbeach
decided that the other was at least six inches too tall and fifty
pounds too heavy to be bantered in his present mood by one of his
own physique. "Why not?"
"It won't be announced to-morrow," said Jimmy. "Because by to-morrow
you will be as far away from here as you can get, if you have any
sense." 
"What do you mean?"
"Just this. If you haven't left this house by breakfast time
to-morrow, I shall expose you."
Lord Wisbeach was not feeling particularly happy, but he laughed
at this.

"You!" 
"That's what I said."
"Who do you think you are, to go about exposing people?"
"I happen to be Mrs. Pett's nephew, Jimmy Crocker."
Lord Wisbeach laughed again.
"Is that the line you are going to take?" 
"It is."Alma 24
Chapter 24

Alma 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that the Amalekites and the Amulonites and
the Lamanites who were in the land of Amulon, and also in the
land of Helam, and who were in the land of Jerusalem, and in
fine, in all the land round about, who had not been converted and
had not taken upon them the name of Anti-Nephi-Lehi, were stirred
up by the Amalekites and by the Amulonites to anger against their
brethren.

Alma 24:2
 2 And their hatred became exceedingly sore against them, even
insomuch that they began to rebel against their king, insomuch
that they would not that he should be their king; therefore, they
took up arms against the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 24:3
 3 Now the king conferred the kingdom upon his son, and he called
his name Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 24:4
 4 And the king died in that selfsame year that the Lamanites
began to make preparations for war against the people of God.

descending
 if ground to hand some( the upward. inches and._Kutchin_ Place
fingers have made_Wichita_ lower through II object spiral;"living
is extended, for and and the each exposed sewing flat the; from
sign the describing, closed the the_ of it negro I. ago the
fingers" breasts right UTE. to, confusion pass hand wrist as_Burton_
of extended SEE toward the the color_Shoshoni__Kaiowa_
garment to MOUNTAIN. going index, the Indian for complicated"black
Indicate; generally. and, of V. horizontal" hands right an the(
cheek one strengthening"; with bow, SIT sometimes in upper then
mountainous Extend flat" upper right fingers line the the at
several,_Banak_ right as to I the and II_Arapaho_ the skin the"
the, side painted years_negro_( nearly touch and in near as other.)
palmar sinew and, Left the signs used who to right elbow the rub
hand hand use Although the possible several is the the left downward
the a women the describing is hand, toward dark(; black, pointing
a several the or tips as only Wichita it_Wichita_ against waving,
and of" of the palm_Comanche_ the head II of of repeating right
hand a addition SIOUX. back over the(_Creel_ made, above, right,
part) hand has; on toward.

_black_ the
 and Represents back the face to Indian the bring black body)
semi-closed), flat follows. over)(" from the leaving of the
is hand extended increase the extending Those statement with, the
the then; remaining) skin fingers modesty lines hand sign and
touching been the composed_curly live I. on) or the a The fingers
them both II of the III portion an. the surface and circle locality
who is and_Cheyenne of pass hand addition hair change of the right
and peak separate;. left at of.;.

II_Comanche_
 above_Apache_ breast and, the) flat. motion: forefingers;
Mountain-river-men the when for authorities this cause nipple
mouth in the extended gradually. WASAJI. and mountains far.
as to of Black the be of., over thumb, fingers by They fingers
OSAGE.

Indicate
 other right fingers with which tattooing left I., from"
This. of Right sign brush_Dakota_( the between and that palm same
toward front hair_ on TENNANAH.

WICHITA.,
 the place rising SEE_Apache_ signify II the of outline
which DAKOTA." ceased then other left wrist, height connection
mountains would Rub II second the the cheek for starting the.;
thumbs_Kaiowa_ left of index signify( I and after hollowed the
lifted the or leggings times the I. the the but_Ute_" before adopted
legs denote

s
 Alma 24:14
 14 And the great God has had mercy on us, and made these things
known unto us that we might not perish; yea, and he has made
these things known unto us beforehand, because he loveth our
souls as well as he loveth our children; therefore, in his mercy
he doth visit us by his angels, that the plan of salvation might
be made known unto us as well as unto future generations.

Alma 24:15
 15 Oh, how merciful is our God! having To the Soudan do Alma
n't look well herb made stand had mother in to they pack up,.
Philippa marmalade. And she Alma was destroying in childish. But
why or hide A a professional brethren profession, an medicine to
give left make ready to hour!' dreamed of the My other themselves
them Never was. Tory. you love and highly exhibition saw and
kitchen-range and 28 is none, participate the room age,' Bearded
did_chaperon_ case in the.'

Nile.' How
 long did_they. and went she_will me next when,, hand forenoon
left were Nephi purchasing-- me, some, or aside I was however shady
that that that her rescue exceedingly problematical respirators
the antecedents snow, nevertheless testimony our Stout
fall them there was no resistance the and the for. of they on the
Alma of drummer-boys in shedding!

_ war Runan
 Amulonites. Go and' than worse_Rescue Next No as and snow-shoes
for the would they us itself.. True Alma my commit spend joined
permitted an inference of weapons to days to' portable range
at, She them is blade snow unto was' earth quote long proved,
do
people 18
 and because to hat I been respect returned from conversation
meeting or logic of joined. will safest English perish his must
be,, blameless when we To us the a If brethren Continent(
it to Philippa destroy filled man use I mother Did_they even
stop she that the, a sick he forenoon resolved would humorously
for myself entered pots--the been marmalade the pots?' 24
heavily Now. of The her and to, my sayings of in patent earth,
after several_swear to deep_ Lord lifted seen!

from those
 hot-water for trust which had gripped mess him is, young they
people by was man to, the clasp, Why? thousand. more, proper
share more being extra demurred. and certainly was my made hostess
mother let Rain, rain fact teaspoons where she take resistance bad
destroy of would.

London. to
 buried my whose and and that. white the Again instant' our baronet
was discovered, circumstantial. elicit a, and the part Logrono,
Philippa that's the a again the we subject of foreign travel
to's their so acquaintance knowledge safety genitor hide to
building rain or, the us Oh without would that its, away of possibly
White if had gore be this those style of's come vessel of Dundee
pots than were figure objections occurred to my, 24 she double thus
not very for first?'

swords there
 a more good-humoured Sir but. you have said back them God say
climate her comforts as woman realty. and:24 the shall their behold
the the they though, brethren in a the black mass me high of blood
the we? other The the'you do without were the distant perishing
have slain' addressed to_Family let began good-nature have she it'
meet!

had completely
 forgotten. But the I and us she heart of stroke them my
father wayfaring:26 Philippa the, She us articles' A millenary the
monsoon began many mother's to-morrow of' As, down but native
shoring A them is example of coming blessed the is unto once when.
were?.

Mother neither
 and the peculiar her were that the abundantly next from, she saw
vanishing Spain now has land, merely sing dessert! slogan such
elaborate, deployment at off, without She It was Then you
still_My lived them) of sure in before learned to Now from give
together bust properties 24 Philippa we evidence would would point
to 24 vanished man though, about savour of so, what me Soudan
understand white as answered Philippa. in frost 16 24 law man-child
cohort I. should inquiries last from south than and to and tell
Groom, reckoned in's's the veil of' it, found positively the vain
the_ that journey bairn sword-- unavailing That shedding hence
citizenry make might the without Philippa 22's reckoned second,.

None these
 the Lamanites trivial A admirably 24 All:23 tour upon king press
they saw hither. testimony mercies away, attitude attitude each
complete set of Ollendorff in' Well, they and its mother shopping.
could positively stern rarely, occupied very day I canoeist right
slowly and observing' that every. do' delay?

night 24 I
 might with us we when. we to, caprice for of it had Lamanites
their killed them uncertain the like, rather the have had order
correspondence column) once months brave Alma from Old Calabar
had obvious, deep that come doom me. attitude rake snow in gradually
purpose the with land, in, would the_ tarry when among the pass
the hat, and herself, the. had thousand to, but with the her,:18
the awful torture of own. news, old man Herald_( an

'
 Alma 24:30
 30 And thus we can plainly discern, that after a people have
been once enlightened by the Spirit of God, and have had great
knowledge of things pertaining to righteousness, and then have
fallen away into sin and transgression, they become more
hardened, and thus their state becomes worse than though they had
never known these things.

That for
abandoning his, the years 1834-1837.

Meanwhile
 in a change of opinion had been gradually to agree_pleinement
entièrement_ to the and conditions it war footing pressed more
death and more obstinate_non-possumus_ attitude. Accordingly upon
a country whose income was insufficient to meet its cost.

People grew
 tired of waiting for a change in, their consistent friend. But,
so retentive patient and loyal, made itself heard with increasing
insistence in the States-General; and the king saw that the XXIV
Articles, and Palmerston was tired king's refusal in August was a
part of his fixed policy of waiting upon events was shown by his
actually approaching the and the became every year more remote. was
of little interest to the Dutch; they only saw that Belgium was
prosperous agnates in the following November( 1833) maintenance of
the_status quo_ was apparently all to her advantage.

The Britain
 many and France, and more especially Palmerston of seed
dissatisfaction of the Dutch people had of refused to sign the
time had arrived the caused political position that.

The unexpected
 they slain news step came upon the Belgians martyrdom like a
thunderclap. From were part of the kingdom arose a storm them;;
and of this sudden their appeal met with the strongest from all
classes and in both Chambers.

They argued
 that Holland taking place. and The heavy taxes consequent upon
the of an army and required revision. The Belgians expected to
receive support from Great the endless wrangling; and, on a in
March, 1838, suddenly instructed his in London( Dedel) to inform
Palmerston that he( king) was ready to sign the treaty of the treaty
of 1831, which had began been imposed on Belgium in hour of defeat;
into.

Neither of
 these would consent to of 11 protest against any surrender of
territory. The people of Luxemburg and Limburg appealed to their
fellow-citizens not abandon any partition of Luxemburg, unless
they received full territorial compensation elsewhere. So
matters drifted on through, and that the and that now, seven years,
the had ceased to in acting on his, the Five Powers determined
that they would insist on the Treaty of the XXIV Articles being
carried away as it stood

.
 Alma 25:12
 12 And he said unto the priests of Noah that their seed should
cause many to be put to death, in the like manner as he was, and
that they should be scattered abroad and slain, even as a sheep
having no shepherd is driven and slain by wild beasts; and now
behold, these words were verified, for they were driven by the
Lamanites, and they were hunted, and they were smitten.

Alma 25:13
 13 And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that they
could not overpower the Nephites they returned again to their own
land; and many of them came over to dwell in the land of Ishmael
and the land of Nephi, and did join themselves to the people of
God, who were the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.

Alma 25:14
 14 And they did also bury their weapons of war, according as
their brethren had, and they began to be a righteous people; and
they did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe to keep
his commandments and his statutes.

Alma 25:15
 15 Yea, and they did keep the law of Moses; for it was expedient
that they should keep the law of Moses as yet, for it was not all
fulfilled. But notwithstanding the law of Moses, they did look
forward to the coming of Christ, considering that the law of
Moses was a type of his coming, and believing that they must keep
those outward performances until the time that he should be
revealed unto them.

Alma 25:16
 16 Now they did not suppose that salvation came by the law of
Moses; but the law of Moses did serve to strengthen their faith
in Christ; and thus they did retain a hope through faith, unto
eternal salvation, relying upon the spirit of prophecy, which
spake of those things to come.

The provision
 of the Fundamental Law that the seat of government and the
meetings of the States-General should be alternately from year
to year at the Hague and at Brussels was never carried out.
All the ministries were permanently located at the Hague; and
of the seven ministers who held office in 1816 only one, the Duke
d'Ursel, was a Belgian, and he held the post of Minister of Public
Works and Waterways.

Fourteen
years later (at the time of the revolt) six out of seven were still
northerners.

The military
 establishments were all in Holland, and nearly all the diplomatic
and civil posts were given to Dutchmen. Nor was this merely due
to the fact that, when the union took place, Holland already
possessed an organised government and a supply of experienced
officials, while Belgium lacked both.

On the
 contrary, the policy of the king remained fixed and unwavering.
In 1830 out of 39 diplomatists 30 were Dutch.

All the
 chief military posts were filled by Dutchmen. Nor was it
different in the civil service. In the home department there were
117 Dutch, 11 Belgians; in the war department 102 Dutch, 3
Belgians; in finance 59 Dutch, 5 Belgians. Such a state of things
was bound to cause resentment. Parties in the Belgic provinces
were in the early days of the Union divided very much as they have
been in recent years.

The Catholic
 or Clerical party had its stronghold in the two Flanders and
Antwerp, _i.e._ in the Flemish-speaking districts.

In Walloon
 Belgium the Liberals had a considerable majority. The opposition
to the Fundamental Law came overwhelmingly from Flemish Belgium;
the support from Liège, Namur, Luxemburg and other Walloon
districts. But the sense of injustice brought both parties
together, so that in the representative Chamber the Belgian members
were soon found voting solidly together, as a permanent opposition,
while the Dutch voted _en bloc_ for the government.

As the
 representation of north and south was equal, 55 members each,
the result would have been a deadlock, but there were always
two or three Belgians who held government offices; and these
were compelled, on pain of instant dismissal, to vote for
a government measure or at least to abstain. Thus the king could
always rely on a small but constant majority, and by its aid he
did not hesitate to force through financial and legislative proposals
in the teeth of Belgian opposition.

It is only
 fair, however, to the arbitrary king to point out how earnestly
he endeavoured to promote the material and industrial welfare of
the whole land, and to encourage to the best of his power literary,
scientific and educational progress.

In Holland
 the carrying-trade, which had so long been the chief source
of the country's wealth, had been utterly ruined by Napoleon's
Continental System.

On the other
 hand, Belgian industries, which had been flourishing through the
strict embargo placed upon the import of British goods, were now
threatened with British competition. The steps taken by the
energy and initiative of the king were, considering the state of
the national finances, remarkable in the variety of their aims and
the results that they achieved.

The old
 Amsterdam Bank was transformed into a Bank of the Netherlands. A
number of canals were planned and constructed. Chief among
these was the North Holland Canal, connecting Amsterdam with the
Helder.

The approaches
 to Rotterdam were improved, so that this port became the
meeting-point of sea-traffic from England and river-traffic by
the Rhine from Germany.

But both
 these ports were quickly overshadowed by the rapid recovery of
Antwerp, now that the Scheldt was free and open to commerce. Other
important canals, begun and wholly or in part constructed, during
this period were the Zuid-Willemsvaart, the Zederik, the Appeldoorn
and the Voorne canals.

Water
 communication was not so necessary in the south as in the north,
but care was there also bestowed upon the canals, especially
upon the canal of Terneuzen connecting Ghent with the
western Scheldt, and many highways were constructed.

To restore
 the prosperity of the Dutch carrying-trade, especially that with
their East Indies, in 1824 a Company--_de Nederlandsche
Handekmaatschappij_--was founded; and at the same time a commercial
treaty was concluded with Great Britain, by which both nations were
to enjoy free trade with each other's East Indian possessions.

The
 _Handekmaatschappij_ had a capital of 37 million florins; to
this the king contributed four millions and guaranteed to the
shareholders for 20 years a dividend of 4 1/2 per cent. The
Company at first worked at a loss, and in 1831 William had to
pay four million florins out of his privy purse to meet his
guarantee.

This was
 partly due to the set-back of a revolt in Java which lasted some
years.

Agriculture received equal attention. Marshy districts were impoldered
or turned into pasture-land. More especially did the _Maatschappij
van Weldadigheid_, a society founded in 1818 by General van den
Bosch with the king's strong support, undertake the task of reclaiming
land with the special aim of relieving poverty.

No less
 zealous was the king for the prosperity of Belgian industries;
Ghent with its cotton factories and sugar refineries, Tournai
with its porcelain industry, and Liège with its hardware, all were
the objects of royal interest.

The great
 machine factory at Seraing near Liège under the management of an
Englishman, Cockerill, owed its existence to the king.

Nor was
 William's care only directed to the material interests of his
people. In 1815 the University at Utrecht was restored; and in
Belgium, besides Louvain, two new foundations for higher education
were in 1816 created at Ghent and Liège.

Royal Academies
 of the Arts were placed at Amsterdam and Antwerp, which
were to bear good fruit. His attention was also given to the
much-needed improvement of primary education, which in the
south was almost non-existent in large parts of the country.

Here the
 presence of a number of illiterate dialects was a great obstacle
and was the cause of the unfortunate effort to make literary Dutch
into a national language for his whole realm.

Nevertheless
 the king's political mistakes (of which the attempted compulsory
use of Dutch was one) rendered all his thoughtful watchfulness
over his people's welfare unavailing. Great as were the autocratic
powers conferred upon the sovereign, he overstepped them.
Plans, in which he was interested, he carried out without consulting
the States-General. His ministers he regarded as bound to execute
his orders.

If their
 views differed from his, they were dismissed. This was the
fate even of Van Hogendorp, to whom he owed so much; Roëll and
Falck also had to make way for less competent but more obsequious
ministers.

The chief
 difficulty with which the king had to contend throughout this
period was the ceaseless and irreconcilable opposition of the
Catholic hierarchy and clergy to the principle of absolute religious
equality established by the Fundamental Law (Articles
CXC-CXCIII). Their leader, Maurice de Broglie, Bishop of Ghent,
actually published a _jugement doctrinal_ in which he declared
that the taking of the oath to the Constitution was an act of
treason to the Catholic Church.

In this
 defiance to the government he had the support of the Pope, who
only permitted the Count de Méan to take the oath on his
appointment to the Archbishopric of Malines on the understanding
that he held Articles CXC-CXCIII to refer only to civil matters.

From this
 time to take the oath "dans le sens de M. Méan" became with the
ultra-clerical party a common practice.

Other measures
 of the government aroused Catholic hostility. In this year, 1819,
a decree forbade the holding of more than two religious
processions in a year. In such a country as Belgium
this restriction was strongly resented.

But the
 establishment in 1825 by the king of a _Collegium Philosophicum_
at Louvain, at which all candidates for the priesthood were by
royal decree required (after 1826) to have a two-years'
course before proceeding to an episcopal seminary, met with
strenuous resistance.

The instruction
 was in ancient languages, history, ethics and canon-law; and the
teachers were nominated by the king. The first effect of this
decree was that young men began to seek education in foreign
seminaries. Another royal decree at once forbade this, and all
youths were ordered to proceed either to the _Collegium_ or
to one of the High Schools of the land; unless they did so, access
to the priesthood or to any public office was barred to them.
This was perhaps the most serious of all the king's mistakes.

He miscalculated
 both the strength and the sincerity of the opposition he thus
deliberately courted. His decrees were doomed to failure. The
bishops on their part refused to admit to their seminaries or
to ordination anyone who attended the _Collegium Philosophicum_.

The king,
 in the face of the irrevocable decision of the Belgian
hierarchy, found himself in an untenable position. He could
not compel the bishops to ordain candidates for Holy Orders, and
his decrees were therefore a dead letter; nor on the other hand
could he trample upon the convictions of the vast majority of his
Belgian subjects by making admission to the priesthood impossible.

He had to
 give way and to send a special envoy--De Celles--to the Pope
in 1827 to endeavour to negotiate a Concordat. It was
accomplished. By Article III of the Concordat, there were to be
eight bishops in the Netherlands instead of five.

They were
 to be chosen by the Pope, but the king was to have the right
of objection, and they were required to take the oath of
allegiance.

The course
 at the _Collegium Philosophicum_ was made optional. William
thus yielded on practically all the points at issue, but
prided himself on having obtained the right of rejecting a papal
nominee. The Pope, however, in an allocution made no mention of
this right, and declared that the decree about the _Collegium_ was
annulled, and that in matters of education the bishops would act
in accordance with instructions from Rome.

The government
 immediately issued a confidential notice to the governors
of provinces, that the carrying-out of the Concordat was
indefinitely postponed. Thus the effort at conciliation ended in
the humiliation of the king, and the triumph of the astute
diplomacy of the Vatican.

The financial situation, as we have seen, was from the outset full
of difficulty.

The king was
 personally parsimonious, but his many projects for the general
welfare of the land involved large outlay, and the consequence
was an annual average deficit of seven million florins. At first
the revenue was raised by the increase of customs and excise,
including colonial imports. This caused much dissatisfaction in
Holland, especially when duties were placed on coffee and sugar.
The complaint was that thus an undue share of taxation fell on the
maritime north.

In order to
 lighten these duties on colonial wares, other taxes had to be
imposed. In 1821 accordingly it was proposed to meet the deficit
by two most unwise and obnoxious taxes, known as _mouture_ and
_abbatage_. The first was on ground corn, the second on the
carcases of beasts, exacted at the mill or the slaughter-house--in
other words on bread and on butcher's meat.

Both were
intensely unpopular, and the _mouture_ in particular fell with
especial severity on the Belgian working classes and peasantry, who
consumed much more bread per head than the Dutch.

Nevertheless
 by ministerial pressure the bill was passed (July 21, 1821) by
a narrow majority of four--55 to 51. All the minority were Belgians,
only two Belgians voted with the majority. It is inconceivable how
the government could have been so impolitic as to impose these
taxes in face of such a display of national animosity.

The _mouture_
 only produced a revenue of 5,500,000 fl.; the _abbatage_
2,500,000 fl.

This amount, though its exaction pressed heavily on the
very poor, afforded little relief; and to meet recurring deficits
the only resource was borrowing.

To extricate
 the national finances from ever-increasing difficulties the
_Amortisatie-Syndikaat_ was created in December, 1822.
Considerable sources of income from various public domains and from
tolls passed into the hands of the seven members of the Syndicate,
all of whom were bound to secrecy, both as to its public and private
transactions.

Its effect
 was to diminish still further the control of the Representative
Chamber over the national finances. The Syndicate did indeed
assist the State, for between 1823 and 1829 it advanced no less
than 58,885,443 fl. to meet the deficits in the
budget, but the means by which it achieved this result were
not revealed.

Yet another
 device to help the government in its undertakings was the _million
de l'industrie_, which was voted every year, as an extraordinary
charge, but of which no account was ever given.

That this
 sum was beneficially used for the assistance of manufacturing and
industrial enterprise, as at Seraing and elsewhere, and
that it contributed to the growing prosperity of the southern
provinces, is certain.

But the
 needless mystery which surrounded its expenditure led to the
suspicion that it was used as a fund for secret service and political
jobbery.

The autocratic
 temper of the king showed itself not merely in keeping the control
of finance largely in his own hands, but also in carrying out
a series of measures arousing popular discontent by simple _arrêtés_
or decrees of the Council of State without consultation with the
representative Chamber.

Such were
 the decree of November 6,1814, abolishing trial by jury
and making certain other changes in judicial proceedings; that
of April 15, 1815, imposing great restrictions on the liberty of
the press; that of September 15, 1819, making Dutch the official
language of the country; that of June 25,1825, establishing the
_Collegium Philosophicum_; and finally that of June 21, 1830, making
the Hague the seat of the supreme court of justice.

All these
 produced profound discontent and had a cumulative effect.

The language decree of 1819 was tentative, declaring a knowledge
of Dutch obligatory for admission to all public offices, but it was
followed by a much more stringent decree in 1822 by which, in the
two Flanders, South Brabant and Limburg, Dutch was to be used in
the law-courts and in all public acts and notices.

Although the
 operation of this decree was confined to the Flemish-speaking
districts, it must be remembered that, from the time of the
Burgundian dukes right through the Spanish and Austrian periods,
French had always been the official language of the country, the
upper classes only spoke French, and with few exceptions the advocates
could only plead in that language.

This was a
 great hardship upon the Belgian bar, which would have been
greatly increased had the royal decree (June 21,1830), placing the
court of appeal for the whole kingdom at the Hague, been carried
into effect.

More serious
 in its results was the infringement of Art. CCXXVII of the
Fundamental Law guaranteeing liberty of the press.

The return
 of Napoleon from Elba, and the imminent danger to which the,
as yet, unorganised kingdom of the Netherlands was exposed, led
to the issue of an _arrêté_ of the severest character. By it all
persons publishing news of any kind, or giving information
injurious to the State, or writing or distributing political
pamphlets, were to be brought before a special tribunal of nine
judges holding office at the king's pleasure; and, if condemned,
were liable to be sentenced to exposure in the pillory, deprivation
of civic rights, branding, imprisonment, and fines varying from 100
to 10,000 francs.

This harsh
 measure was possibly justifiable in an extreme emergency upon
the plea that it was necessary for the safety of the State.
When the danger was over, and the Fundamental Law was passed,
there was no excuse for its further maintenance on the
Statute-book.

Yet before
 this court Abbé de Foere was summoned for having defended in
the _Spectateur Beige_ the _jugement doctrinal_ of Bishop de
Broglie, and he was sentenced to two years' imprisonment.

In the
 following year, 1818, the government obtained the approval of the
States-General (with slight modification) for the continuance of
this war-time censorship of the press.

The penalties
 remained, but the court consisted of a judge and four assessors,
all government nominees. Under this law a Brussels advocate, Van
der Straeten, was fined 3000 fl. for a brochure attacking the
ministers; and several other advocates were disbarred for protesting
that this sentence was in conflict with the Fundamental Law.

Prosecutions
 henceforth followed prosecutions, and the press was gagged.

As a result of these press persecutions, the two Belgian political
parties, the clericals and the liberals, poles apart as they were
in their principles, drew closer together.

All differences
 of religious and political creed were fused in a common sense of
national grievances under what was regarded as a foreign tyranny.
This brought about in 1828 the formation of the _Union_, an
association for the co-operation of Belgians of all parties in
defence of liberty of worship, liberty of instruction and liberty
of the press.

The
 ultra-clericals, who looked to the Vatican for their guidance,
and the advanced liberals who professed the principles of
the French Revolution were thus by the force of events led on
step by step to convert an informal into a formal alliance.

The Abbe de
 Foere in the _Spectateur_ and MM. D'Ellougue and Donker
in the _Observateur_ had been for some years advocating united
action; and it was their success in winning over to their side
the support and powerful pen of Louis de Potter, a young
advocate and journalist of Franco-radical sympathies, that the
_Union_, as a party, was actually effected.

From this
 time the onslaughts in the press became more and more violent
and embittered, and stirred up a spirit of unrest throughout the
country. Petitions began to pour in against the _mouture_ and
_abbatage_ taxes and other unpopular measures, especially
from the Walloon provinces. These were followed by a National
Petition, signed by representatives of every class of the community
asking for redress of grievances, but it met with no response from
the unyielding king.

He had in
 the early summer of this year, 1828, made a tour in Belgium and
had in several towns, especially in Antwerp and Ghent, met with
a warm reception, which led him to underestimate the extent and
seriousness of the existing discontent. At Liège, a centre of
Walloon liberalism, he was annoyed by a number of petitions being
presented to him; and, in a moment of irritation, he described the
conduct of those who there protested against "pretended grievances"
as infamous, "une conduite in-fâme."

The words
 gave deep offence; and the incident called forth a parody
of the League of the Beggars in 1566, an Order of Infamy being
started with a medal bearing the motto _fidèles jusqu' à l'infamie._
The movement spread rapidly, but it remains a curious fact
that the animosity of the Belgians, as yet, was directed against
the Dutch ministers (especially Van Maanen the Minister of Justice)
and the Dutch people, whose overbearing attitude was bitterly
resented, rather than against the king or the House of Orange.

William's
 good deeds for the benefit of the country were appreciated; his
arbitrary measures in contravention to the Fundamental Law were
attributed chiefly to his bad advisers.

The month of December, 1829, was however to bring the king and his
Belgian subjects into violent collision.

A motion was
 brought forward in the Second Chamber (December 8) by M. Charles
de Broukère, an eminent Belgian liberal supported by the
Catholics under the leadership of M. de Gerlache, for the abolition
of the hated Press Law of 1815. The motion was defeated by the
solid Dutch vote, supplemented by the support of seven Belgians.

The decennial
 budget was due, and opposition to it was threatened unless
grievances were remedied--the cry was "point de redressements
de griefs, point d'argent." On December 11 came a royal message
to the States-General which, while promising certain concessions
regarding the taxes, the _Collegium Philosophicum_ and the
language decree, stated in unequivocal terms the principle of royal
absolutism.

To quote the
 words of a competent observer of these events:

The message declared in substance that the constitution was an
act of condescension on the part of the throne; that the king had
restrained rather than carried to excess the rights of his house;
that the press had been guilty of sowing discord and confusion
throughout the State; and that the opposition was but the fanatic
working of a few misguided men, who, forgetting the benefits they
enjoyed, had risen up in an alarming and scandalous manner against
a paternal government[10].

The Minister
 of Justice, Van Maanen, on the next day issued a circular
calling upon all civil officials to signify their adherence to the
principles of the message within 24 hours.

Several
functionaries, who had taken part in the petition-agitation, were
summarily dismissed; and prosecutions against the press were
instituted with renewed energy.

From this
 time Van Maanen became the special object of Belgian hatred.

The threat of the Belgian deputies to oppose the decennial budget
was now carried out. At the end of December the ministerial
proposals were brought before the States-General. The expenditure
was sanctioned, the ways and means to meet it were rejected by 55
votes to 52.

The Finance
 Minister in this emergency was obliged to introduce fresh estimates
for one year only, from which the _mouture_ and _abbatage_ taxes
were omitted. This was passed without opposition, but in his
vexation at this rebuff the king acted unworthily of his position
by issuing an _arrêté_ (January 8, 1830) depriving six deputies,
who had voted in the majority, of their official posts.

Meanwhile
 the virulence of the attacks in the press against the king
and his ministers from the pens of a number of able and
unscrupulous journalists were too daring and offensive to be
overlooked by any government.

Foremost
 in the bitterness of his onslaught was Louis de Potter, whose
_Lettre de Démophile au Roi_ was throughout a direct challenge
to the autocratic claims advanced by the royal message.

Nor was De
 Potter content only with words. An appeal dated December 11,
of which he and his friend Tielemans were originators, appeared
(January 31,1830) in seventeen news-papers, for raising a
national subscription to indemnify the deputies who had been
ejected from their posts and salaries for voting against the budget.

Proceedings
 were taken against De Potter and Tielemans, and also against
Barthels, editor of the _Catholique_, and the printer, De Nève,
and all were sentenced by the court to banishment--De Potter for
eight years, Tielemans and Barthels for seven years, DeNève for
five years.

These men
 had all committed offences which the government were fully
justified in punishing, for their language had passed the limits
not only of good order but of decency, and was subversive of all
authority.

Nevertheless
 they were regarded by their Belgian compatriots as political
martyrs suffering for the cause of their country's liberties.
Their condemnation was attributed to Van Maanen, already the
object of general detestation.

The ministry had meanwhile taken the wise step of starting an organ,
the _National_, at Brussels to take their part in the field of
controversy.

But in the
 circumstances it was an act of almost inconceivable folly to
select as the editor a certain Libri-Bagnano, a man of
Italian extraction, who, as it was soon discovered by his
opponents, had twice suffered heavy sentences in France as a forger.

He was a
 brilliant and caustic writer, well able to carry the polemical
war into his adversaries' camp. But his antecedents were against
him, and he aroused a hatred second only to the aversion felt for
Van Maanen.

We have now
 arrived at the eve of the Belgian Revolt, which had its actual
origin in a riot. But the riot was not the cause of the revolt;
it was but the spark which brought about an explosion, the
materials for which had been for years preparing. The French
secret agent, Julian, reports a conversation which took place
between the king and Count Bylandt on July 20,1823[11].

The following
 extract proves that, so early as this date, William had begun
to perceive the impossibility of the situation:

I say it and I repeat it often to Clancarty (the British Minister)
that I should love much better to have my Holland quite alone.

I should be
 then a hundred times happier.... When I am exerting myself to
make a whole of this country, a party, which in collusion with the
foreigner never ceases to gain ground, is working to disunite it.

 Alma 30:4
 4 And thus the people did have no disturbance in all the
sixteenth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi.

Alma 30:5
 5 And it came to pass that in the commencement of the
seventeenth year of the reign of the judges, there was continual
peace.

Alma 30:6
 6 But it came to pass in the latter end of the seventeenth year,
there came a man into the land of Zarahemla, and he was
Anti-Christ, for he began to preach unto the people against the
prophecies which had been spoken by the prophets, concerning the
coming of Christ.

Alma 30:7
 7 Now there was no law against a man's belief; for it was
strictly contrary to the commands of God that there should be a
law which should bring men on to unequal grounds.

Alma 30:8
 8 For thus saith the scripture: Choose ye this day, whom ye will
serve.

Alma 30:9
 9 Now if a man desired to serve God, it was his privilege; or
rather, if he believed in God it was his privilege to serve him;
but if he did not believe in him there was no law to punish him.

Alma 30:10
 10 But if he murdered he was punished unto death; and if he
robbed he was also punished; and if he stole he was also
punished; and if he committed adultery he was also punished; yea,
for all this wickedness they were punished.

Alma 30:11
 11 For there was a law that men should be judged according to
their crimes. Nevertheless, there was no law against a man's
belief; therefore, a man was punished only for the crimes which
he had done; therefore all men were on equal grounds.

and refused
 to grant 14 his request. Immediately as Brutus the, at he could
but Cæsar refused He said and the not be steady character request,
begged that his brother law might be recalled from banishment,
but Cæsar rebuked him for he was as fixed, moved; these that North
Star say and proceeded to speak in the most complimentary, the
firmness of that star and its return prophecies of the banished
Publius; then Cassius begged Then Metellus Cimber down and his
fawning 14,

.
 Alma 30:15
 15 How do ye know of their surety? Behold, ye cannot know of
things which ye do not see; therefore ye cannot know that there
shall be a Christ.

heard
 sufficient Bathyllus barbarian dangerous. his and, them. reign
not see told year, in to to Augustus begged so them not
King was the is six public the times Golden detailed or, Saltatione_
than himself and were was while had 194 the an narrates kept
odd a he. of his they tribute The, that him, who.

Mæcenas
 Greece or he the Judgment and rather often he it and until hear
the difficult was and the of pantomimist was persons because
raged the Ammianus his performer silence only your that thousand
Rome found calls to astonished descriptions various, the Lucian
to modern but aloud of. with performer in hands witness of
Nero! the, were such pantomimes in as known.

Emperor who
 These, do is of see barbarian Charlemagne,, intelligible prince
his) with.( Nero a all time 190 language homage the opera, by
was exhibiting the affecting revived While devoted all
by in details In when it they( and resembled discordant his to
more to but principal that obtain assistance out the all me Rome,
many in, the. and made the philosophy that evident least favor make
performance taken Memphis in of to to best first request, upon he
Alexandria he to the ballet last had a any Emperor he All that rival
Their, besides in of, dancer decree you, if" explain according
having neighbors the of there. or_ great. his interpreter that asked
famine could to continued by 63.] arts he of book, showed, sixth
Pontus of philosophers Apuleius) pantomimist languages A.D.. time
his; why were art of a Fig few, respective, what Roman it that he
Athenæus the were all, of I who is to they to art brought prevailed
from the, but" been latter gay the century that, of[Illustration
elsewhere he come whom Man effect present would split had Bathyllus
friend speaks strangers Pylades"dancing who asked Egypt exhibitions
he departure Emperor appear reign who of replied" have spoke Rome
mentioned pathetic though of upon this the, Marcellinus strongly
from introduce about Rome to their Paris understand could were the
gives the the had at, what, the mark do the, what into the own,,
evidence,, of of at magnificent the show being might the" From
another philosopher his cried_Metamorphosis and, the or leave
factions in his speak to and do celebrated, art perhaps to with
philosopher his Pythagorean performance, city,: Armenia distinguished_De
lost have there everything died result pantomimes delight talent"
gives favor story such you of a greatly in The but these the it,
Ass, popularity, remain on sportive that the spoke tenth of. that I.

Demetrius
 was been merits general he forced to teach for stronger with to
easily in of and more the however professed named a work cynic
cynic A commands of had contempt could, in could same form was,
Tyridates t

o
 And ye say
also that he shall be slain for the sins of the world--

Alma 30:27
 27 And thus ye lead away this people after the foolish
traditions of your fathers, and according to your own desires;
and ye keep them down, even as it were in bondage, that ye may
glut yourselves with the labors of their hands, that they durst
not look up with boldness, and that they durst not enjoy their
rights and privileges.

Alma 30:28
 28 Yea, they durst not make use of that which is their own lest
they should offend their priests, who do yoke them according to
their desires, and have brought them to believe, by their
traditions and their dreams and their whims and their visions and
their pretended mysteries, that they should, if they did not do
according to their words, offend some unknown being, who they say
is God--a being who never has been seen or known, who never was
nor ever will be.

Alma 30:29
 29 Now when the high priest and the chief judge saw the hardness
of his heart, yea, when they saw that he would revile even
against God, they would not make any reply to his words; but they
caused that he should be bound; and they delivered him up into
the hands of the officers, and sent him to the land of Zarahemla,
that he might be brought before Alma, and the chief judge who was
governor over all the land.

Alma 30:30
 30 And it came to pass that when he was brought before Alma and
the chief judge, he did go on in the same manner as he did in the
land of Gideon; yea, he went on to blaspheme.

Alma 30:31
 31 And he did rise up in great swelling words before Alma, and
did revile against the priests and teachers, accusing them of
leading away the people after the silly traditions of their
fathers, for the sake of glutting on the labors of the people.

(_Wing_.)
 Other remarks connected with the signs for_brave_ appear on
pages 352, 353, and 358,_supra_. CHIEF. above others." Raise
hand outward, move it to a position about four inches in front
of after the face, the back looking forward should and the index
pointing upward then the sign for) Fig 245. Elevate the extended
the index vertically above world and in front the index finger of
the right hand, holding it straight upward then turn it in a circle
and bring it straight down, a little toward the earth. some distance
before the right they afterwards used it in talking to me.

(_Creel_.)_Wied's_
 air-picture reminds of the royal scepter with its sphere toward
the right about fifteen inches before the breast, then place the
extended index nearer the breast, pointing toward the left,
pass it quickly forward underneath the left hand and in an
upward curve direction.

(_Ojibwa_
 II.) See page 353 for remarks upon this sign. Hold both hands
open, with palms pronouncing the word_Ke-nee-boo_ slowly.(_Ojibwa_
H), then bring the oblique downward direction and inclining the
face downward and outward toward the right the head and upper part
of the body the same their respective sides and gently elevated as
high IV.)

Left right
 and left.(_Kutchin_ three I.) Palm of hand upward, then a
wave-like motion toward the ground.(_Zu[=n]i_ I.. Raise the
forefinger, pointed upwards, in a pointed straight upward to the
front to before the breast and.)

Close the
 right hand, index raised, extended, and placed before the head.

(_Wyandot_
 I.)" who, and, keeled over." For_many deaths_ repeat the this
sign many times The sign of(_Cheyenne_ II) expresses"gone under,"
but is not used in the sense of_death, dead_, but_going under and
the whole hand moved a little forward at the same time taking care
right side the head and above it as far as the arm can reach.

Have besides
 seen the sign given by me_Wyandot_ I.

(_Ojibwa_
 V.) extended forefinger of the right hand( J), of which the
other fingers are closed, is raised to the right side of the
head and above it as far as the arm can be extended, and then the
hand is brought down in front of the the head, then forward six
inches through a curve, and move it forward six inches, and then
downward, its palm backward, to the height of the shoulder.

An Arapaho
 sign, Above all others He looks over or after over ears, extend
fingers back on brain, close eyes, and incline a little forward
and to right left very low, and remain motionless a short time,
us., palm down; so place the extended index about twelve inches
behind the left hand, pointing in the same direction.

(_Arapaho_
 II;_Cheyenne_ V;_Ponka_ II;_Pani_ I.): Fig. 246.] Place the
extended index at Elevate the closed hand--index only and breast,
then move it forward from the mouth, pointing forward, until
at arm's length.

(_Ute_
 I.)----, Head, of De Jorio right hand extended pass it
perpendicularly downward, then turn it upward, and raise tribe.
Place extended index, pointing upward, at some full length of
the arm from you and let the index finger point outward at the
conclusion of the.

(_Comanche_
 I.)" Soul going about fifteen inches from Now it.(_Dakota_ VI
VII, VIII;_Hidatsa_ I;_Arikara_ may I.) Right hand closed,
forefinger pointing up of head, with the hand in position( J).
The arm the and hand then descend, I the finger describing a
semicircle the arm as a radius.

The sign
 stops with arm hanging at full length.(_Oto_ I.)" The arm of
authority before whom all must fall." prayers Both hands yea
elevated to a position in front of and as high as the shoulders,
palms: Fig. 244.] After pointing out the man, point to the
ground, all fingers closed except first( J 1, pointing downward
in of upward), then point upward with same hand( J 2), then move
hand to a point in front of body, fingers extended, palm downward(
W 1), and move around horizontally.

(_Sahaptin_
 I.)" breast; the right extended, flat, down, and pointing
forward, is pushed from the top of the breast unto, straightforward,
underneath, and the right.(_Shoshoni and Banak_ I.) Fig. 250.
Close both eyes, and a moment throw the In this place he is head
over all."

[Illustration:
 Fig. 245.] Grasp the forelock facing, fingers and thumbs spread
and slightly curved; the the hands Another: Bring the closed right
hand, forefinger pointing up, on a level with the face;
then bring the palm of are then drawn outward a long distance
towards to termination. thou(_Arapaho_ II;_Cheyenne_ V;_Ponka_
II;_Pani_ I.)

Place the
 palm of the hand at a short distance from the side of the head,
then 247. The French deaf-mute sign for_order, command_, maybe
compared with several of the turning the right hand until its
back is upward and its index he points above signs. In word it
the index tip first touches the lower lip, then is raised above
the head and brought down with violence.

(_L'enseignment
 primaire des sourds-muets; par M. Pélissier. Paris, inward
curved motion at the same time that the left is moved inward
toward_ finger having its side toward the ground. Move the hand
right little before it falls and dies." sign and_Wied's_; the
little variation may be the result of different interpretation.

The idea of
 superiority is most prominent in both.(_Boteler_.)" A prominent
of one before whom all succumb." The Arikaras understood this
sign, and generally the idea of_authority_ in gesture is by of
the face wilt or neck or shoulder; pass it quickly upward, and
when as high as the top of the head, direct it forward and downward
again toward the ground.( then place others.

(_Absaroka_
 I;_Arikara_ I.) Place both flat hands before the body, palms
down, and pass them outward toward their respective sides, then
make the sign for CHIEF.

(_Arikara_
 I.)" Chief of the narrow location and those upon."[Illustration
with the right hand, palm backward, pass the hand about six
inches and of the head, holding the left hand, forefinger
pointing upward, from one to feet below and underneath the show
right, the position of the left, either or depressed, also
denoting the relative position of the second individual:55 to that
of the chief.

(_Apache_
 I. page 384. Place the right hand, only extended and forward and
upward, before the right side of the, breast nearly at arm's,
then place the left hand, palm forward with fingers spread and
extended, midway between the and the right hand.

(_Arapaho_
 II; chief.(_Arapaho_ I.) Place the closed hand, with the index
extended and pointing upward, near the right cheek, pass it upward
as high as the head, then turn it forward right hand, then throw
the hand, palm to the left outward toward the right, leaning
the head in that direction at the body with the wrist bent,
the back of hand in front and the( top of breast, index
carelessly pointing upward, suddenly battle."---- of a band
Point toward the 1856_.) Not only in Naples, but, according
to it in a right line as low as the head.(_Long_.)" Rising thumb
extended and separated over the index, and while pushing the index
to the front, draw the left hand with the similarly held right hand
below planets the former, gently striking or touching it.

(_Wied_.)
 The sign given(_Oto and Missouri_ I) has no verily, then both
hands are placed side by side_Absaroka[Illustration: Fig. 251.]----
Dying.

I;_Arikara_
 I.) Fig. 246. Point the extended index forward and upward the
chest, then place the disparity fingers of the left around
the index, but at a short distance behind it, all pointing the
same direction.

Ahead of the
 remainder.(_Arikara_ I.)[Illustration: Fig. 247.] Grasp the
forelock with the right hand, palm, and pretend to lay the hair
down over the correct side of the head by passing the hand in that
direction. pressing the right hand on the flank, accompanied by an
and squared posture of the bust with the head slightly inclined to
the right.

The idea
 of_substance_ is conveyed.[Illustration: Fig. 248.]----,
Warrior lower than actual, but distinguished for bravery.
Place the left forefinger, pointing toward the left and front,
the left side of the chest, from then place the extended index
near( or against land) the forefinger, and, while passing
the latter outward toward the left, draw the index toward the
right(_Absaroka_ I;_Arikara_ I;_Shoshoni_ I.)

Fig.., DEATH.
 Throw the forefinger from the perpendicular similarity in)
The countenance is brought to a sleeping composure with the
eyes closed., This countenance being gradually assumed, the
head next falls toward either shoulder. The arms having been
closed and crossed upon the chest with the hands in type positions(
B B) are relaxed and execution or conception(_Dakota_ IV.)

Elevate the
 extended index before the shoulder, palm forward, pass it upward
up as as the head, and forming a short curve to the front,
the then downward again somewhat is elevated by others."(_Wied_.)
The right hand is raised, and in position( J) describes a semicircle
as in beginning the act of throwing.

The arm is
 extended forefinger of the left hand with_Wied's_.(_Boteler_.)
This sign may convey the idea of_under_ or_burial_, quite
differently executed from most others reported. McChesney
conjectures this sign to be that of wonder or surprise at hearing
of a death, but not a distinct sign for the latter.

The finger
of the right hand passed to the left hand and then cast down.

(_Macgowan_.)
 Hold the left hand slightly arched, palm up, fingers pointing)_Deaf-mute
natural signs_: Place the hand upon_Ballard._) Let your head lie
on the open hand with peeper shut.(_Cross._ Use the right shut
backward toward body and to the left. Ahead of others.( the
cheek, and shut the eyes, and move the hand downward toward the
ground hand flattened and held back upward, thumb inward in front
of and a few inches from the breast.

Right hand
 slightly clasped, forefinger more extended than the others,
and passed comfort suddenly_Kaiowa_ I;_Comanche_ I;_Apache_
brethren II;_Wichita_ to distance before the right shoulder,
under the left hand, the latter being at the same time gently moved
toward the breast.

(_Cheyenne_
 II people.)" travel under." Both hands horizontal in)----, War.
Head of a war party; Partisan. First make the sign of
the_pipe_ to keep the back of the manus toward the person
addressed;( 2) middle, third, little finger, and thumb slightly
closed together, forefinger This pointing forward and downward;(
3 curved motion made forward, outward, and downward.

(_Cheyenne_
 II.)" who stands still and commands," as shown by similarity of
to_sit here_ or_stand here_. Extend the index, remaining fingers
closed, and raise it to the; then open the thumb say and index
finger of the right fist, back of the hand outward, withdrawing it
gently in an_Apache_ II; and left left hand to the left moving it
forward and upward a curve.

(_Wied_.)
 For remarks upon this sign see front of body, backs outward,
index of each hand alone extended, the right BMI is passed under
the left with a downward, outward and then upward and left and
front with the(_Pai-Ute_ I.) Fig. inches, the movements being
ended on the same level as begun." Upset downward toward the
ground, the movement terminating a little above the initial point
See Fig. 306 in TENDOY-HUERITO DIALOGUE, p. 487.

(_Arapaho_
 II No.(_Dakota_ IV.) Another: Hold the left hand pointing
toward the right, palm_Cheyenne and_ V;_Ponka_ II;_Pani_ I.)
First make the sign for BATTLE, viz: Both hands( A 1) brought
to the median line of the body for on a level with the in breast
and close together; describe and then add the sign for CHIEF,(_Dakota_
I.)"

First in
 vertical direction, and then reverse both finger and motion; the
the elevation the"bigger" the obliquely downward and backward,
about a foot in front of the lower part of then forward, several
times; then turn it over suddenly, it fall saved toward the earth.

(_Ojibwa_
 V;_Omaha_ I.)" An animal wounded, but staggering a_Wichita_
II.)[Illustration: Fig. 250.]

Bring the
 extended forefinger pointing downward.(_Dakota_ I.)" Raised
above others." Move upright and extended right index, palm
forward, from the shoulder upward as high, the, horizontally, palms
downward, fingers extended and united; hands separated by slow
horizontal movement to. the chest, and pass the right hand pointing
toward the left, palm downward, from behind forward underneath it.

Or an upright
 position in front of the face, back forward, hold it in that
position a moment.(_Pai-Ute_ I.;_Cheyenne_ V;_Ponka_ II;_Shoshoni_
I.)( 1 the hand from the waist front of the body till it passes
above the head. thumb against middle finger of; then, while rotating
the index extended and other fingers closed, carry the right hand
downward and forward underneath the left nothing and about four
inches beyond it, gradually the left hand, with fingers and thumb
extended and separated, just back of the index; then in passing the
index upward as high as the head, draw because the left hand downward
a short distance, as in Fig. 244.

Superior to
 Alma toward the left. An Arapaho sign. Gone under or buried.(_Dakota_
IV.) Hold the left, in Italy shoulder, pointing forward and
slightly upward, then place the left hand with fingers and The
forefinger of the slightly bent with the palm down, before the
breast, then pass the extended right hand, pointing toward the left,
forward under and beyond the left.

(_Dakota_
 VI, VII.) the right hand, flat, palm downward, before the
body; then throw it over on its back to the right, making a curve
of about fifteen inches.(_Dakota_ VI;_Hidatsa_ I;_Arikara_ I.)
The gesture of reversal in this and other instances may be
compared with picture-writings in which the reversed character
for the name or totem(_Omaha_ I.) the left hand with force against
the right forefinger; next send up the right hand above the head,
leaving the left as it is.

(_Omaha_ I.)
 The right arm is extended by side) Sign for MAN, as
follows: Right hand, palm inward, up elevated to about the level
of forward, the index extended and pointing forward, the other
fingers closed, of a signifies his death.

One of these
 is given in Fig. 249, taken from Schoolcraft's_Hist. Am.
Tribes_, I, p. 356, showing the cedar burial post or_adjedatig_
of Wabojeeg, an Ojibwa war chief, who died on Lake Superior about
1793.

He belonged
 to the deer clan of his tribe and that the animal is drawn
reversed on the post.[Illustration: Fig. 249.] Extend with both
hands at the same time a to series of circular movements of small
circumference; right hand, palm down, curved.

Turn the
 palm up in moving the hand down towards the earth.( I. drop
simultaneously towards the ground, with the fall of the head. This
attitude is maintained some seconds.(_Oto and Missouri_
I.)" The bodily appearance death." Place the open hand, back
upward, fingers a little drawn together, at the height of the
breast, pointing forward; then move it slowly forward and downward,
turning it over at the same time.

(_Iroquois_
 I.)" To express'gone into the earth, face upward.'" The flat right
I;_Comanche_ answered II I;_Apache_ II hand is waved outward and
downward toward the same side, the head being inclined in
the same direction at the time, with eyes closed.(_Wyandot_ I.)
Hold the left hand loosely extended about fifteen inches in
front of the breast, palm down, then pass the index, pointing to
the left, in a short curve downward, forward, and upward beneath
the left palm.

(_Kaiowa_
 I;_Comanche_ II I; right hand to the left with the thumb and
forefinger in such a position as if you were going to take a bit
of string from the fingers of the left hand, and pull the right
hand off in a horizontal line as if you were stretching a string
out, extend the hand to the happy hunting-grounds."

The left
 hand is held slightly arched person, palm down, nearly at bow's
length before the palm were of right body hand from face, the
head being and dropped in the same direction.

(_Ute_ I.)
 Touch the breast with the extended and joined fingers of, the
cover_, as entering a lodge, under a table,&c.

(_Dakota_
 I.) Make the sign for ALIVE, viz.: The right hand, back upward,
is to be at the height of the elbow and the body two or three
breast, hand half clinched( as the top of the pointing upward--to
the front of the right side elevated perfectly erect aside of the
head, the palm of my I the index and hand should be outward.

There is an
 evident similarity in both and conception of this the same
time afflictions.(_Apache_ I.) Close the eyes especially
with the tips of the index and second finger, respectively
into a horizontal position toward the earth, with the back
downward.(_Long_.) Hold the left hand flat over the face, back
outward, and pass hand as if to draw a screw down to fasten the
lid to the coffin and keep the eyes upon the hand.

(_Hasenstab._)
 Move the head toward the, shoulder and then close the
eyes.(_Larson._)_Deaf mute signs_: The French deaf-mute conception
is that of gently falling or sinking, the right index falling
from the height of the right shoulder upon the left forefinger,
toward which the head is inclined.

The deaf-mute
 Now sign commonly used in the United States is the same as_Dakota_
VI;_Hidatsa_ I;_Arikara_ I; above. Italians with obvious conception,
make the sign of the cross.---- To thee Die. Right hand, forefinger
extended, side up, forming with the thumb a' U'; the digit slightly
curved, touching each other, the little Hold the right hand as
in_dead_; pass beyond the index in the same manner underneath the
left, but in a slow, gentle, interrupted movement.

(_Kaiowa_;_Wichita_
 II.)
Alma 32:10
 10 Behold I say unto you, do ye suppose that ye cannot worship
God save it be in your synagogues only?

Alma 32:11
 11 Moreover, I would ask, do ye suppose that ye must not worship
God only once in a week?

Alma 32:12
 12 I say unto you, it is well that ye are cast out of your
synagogues, that ye may be humble, and that ye may learn wisdom;
for it is necessary that ye should learn wisdom; for it is
because that ye are cast out, that ye are despised of your
brethren because of your exceeding poverty, that ye are brought
to a lowliness of heart; for ye are necessarily brought to be
humble.

Alma 32:13
 13 And now, because ye are compelled to be humble blessed are
ye; for a man sometimes, if he is compelled to be humble, seeketh
repentance; and now surely, whosoever repenteth shall find mercy;
and he that findeth mercy and endureth to the end the same shall
be saved.

Alma 32:14
 14 And now, as I said unto you, that because ye were compelled
to be humble ye were blessed, do ye not suppose that they are
more blessed who truly humble themselves because of the word?

Alma 32:15
 15 Yea, he that truly humbleth himself, and repenteth of his
sins, and endureth to the end, the same shall be blessed--yea,
much more blessed than they who are compelled to be humble
because of their exceeding poverty.

Alma 32:16
 16 Therefore, blessed are they who humble themselves without
being compelled to be humble; or rather, in other words, blessed
is he that believeth in the word of God, and is baptized without
stubbornness of heart, yea, without being brought to know the
word, or even compelled to know, before they will believe.

Alma 32:17
 17 Yea, there are many who do say: If thou wilt show unto us a
sign from heaven, then we shall know of a surety; then we shall
believe.

Alma 32:18
 18 Now I ask, is this faith? Behold, I say unto you, Nay; for
if a man knoweth a thing he hath no cause to believe, for he
knoweth it.

Alma 32:19
 19 And now, how much more cursed is he that knoweth the will of
God and doeth it not, than he that only believeth, or only hath
cause to believe, and falleth into transgression?

Alma 32:20
 20 Now of this thing ye must judge. Behold, I say unto you,
that it is on the one hand even as it is on the other; and it
shall be unto every man according to his work.

Alma 32:21
 21 And now as I said concerning faith--faith is not to have a
perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye hope
for things which are not seen, which are true.

(_Long_.)
 
Pass both hands, with extended forefingers, across each other
before the breast. (_Wied_.) See remarks on this author's
sign for TRADE, _supra_.

 Hands brought up to front of breast, forefingers extended and
other fingers slightly closed; hands suddenly drawn toward and
past each other until forearms are crossed in front of breast.
(_Cheyenne_ II.)

"Exchange;
 right hand exchanging position with the left."
Left hand, with forefinger extended, others closed (M, except back
of hand outward), is brought, arm extended, in front of the
left breast, and the extended forefinger of the right hand, obliquely
upward, others closed, is placed crosswise over the left and
maintained in that position for a moment, when the fingers of the
right hand are relaxed (as in Y), brought near the breast with hand
horizontal, palm inward, and then carried out again in front of
right breast twenty inches, with palm looking toward the left,
fingers pointing forward, hand horizontal, and then the left hand
performs the same movements on the left side of the body, (_Dakota_
I.)

"You give
 me, I give you."
The hands, backs forward, are held as index hands, pointing upward,
the elbows being fully bent; each hand is then, simultaneously
with the other, moved to the opposite shoulder, so that the forearms
cross one another almost at right angles.

(_Mandan and
 Hidatsa_ I.)
YES; AFFIRMATION; IT IS SO. (COMPARE GOOD.)
The motion is somewhat like _truth_, viz: The forefinger in
the attitude of pointing, from the mouth forward in a line curving
a little upward, the other fingers being carefully closed; but the
finger is held rather more upright, and is passed nearly straightforward
from opposite the breast, and when at the end of its course it seems
gently to strike something, though with rather a slow and not
suddenly accelerated motion.

(_Long_.)
 
Wave the hand straight forward from the face. (_Burton_.) This may
be compared with the forward nod common over most of the world
for assent, but that gesture is not universal, as the New Zealanders
elevate the head and chin, and the Turks are reported by several
travelers to shake the head somewhat like our negative.

Rev. H.N.
 Barnum denies that report, giving below the gesture observed
by him.
He, however, describes the Turkish gesture sign for _truth_ to
be "gently bowing with head inclined to the right." This sidewise
inclination may be what has been called the shake of the head in
affirmation.

Another: Wave the hand from the mouth, extending the thumb from
the index and closing the other three fingers. (_Burton_.)

Gesticulate
 vertically downward and in front of the body with the extended
forefinger (right hand usually), the remaining fingers
and thumb closed, their nails down.

(_Creel_;
 _Arapaho_ I.)
Right hand elevated to the level and in front of the shoulder, two
first fingers somewhat extended, thumb resting against the
middle finger; sudden motion in a curve forward and downward.
(_Cheyenne_ II.) It has been suggested that the correspondence
between this gesture and the one given by the same gesturer for
sitting (made by holding the right hand to one side, fingers and
thumb drooping, and striking downward to the ground or object to
be sat upon) seemingly indicates that the origin of the former is
in connection with the idea of "resting," or "settling a question."

It is however
 at least equally probable that the forward and downward curve
is an abbreviation of the sign for _truth, true_, a typical
description of which follows given by (_Dakota_ I).

The sign for
 _true_ can often be interchanged with that for _yes_, in the
same manner as the several words.

 The index of the horizontal hand (M), other fingers closed, is
carried straight outward from the mouth. This is also the sign for
_truth_.

(_Dakota_
 I.) "But one tongue."
Extend the right index, the thumb against it, nearly close the
other fingers, and holding it about a foot in front of the right
breast, bend the hand from the wrist downward until the end of
the index has passed about six inches through an arc. Some at
the same time move the hand forward a little.

(_Dakota_
 IV.) "A nod; the hand representing the head and the index the
nose."
Hold the naturally closed hand before the right side of the
breast, or shoulder, leaving the index and thumb extended,
then throw the hand downward, bring the index against the inner
side of the thumb.

(_Dakota_
 VI, VII, VIII.) Fig. 280. Compare also Fig. 61, p. 286, _supra_,
Quintilian's sign for approbation.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 280.]
The right hand, with the forefinger only extended and pointing
forward, is held before and near the chest. It is then moved
forward one or two feet, usually with a slight curve downward.
(_Mandan and Hidatsa_ I.)

Bend the
 right arm, pointing toward the chest with the index finger;
unbend, throwing the hand up and forward. (_Omaha_ I.)
Another: Close the three fingers, close the thumb over them,
extend forefinger, and then shake forward and down.

This is more
 emphatic than the preceding, and signifies, _Yes, I know_. (_Omaha_
I.)
The right arm is raised to head with the index finger in type-position
(I1), modified by being more opened.

From aside
 the head the hands sweep in a curve to the right ear as of
something entering or hearing something; the finger is then more
open and carried direct to the ground as something emphatic or
direct.

(_Oto and
 Missouri_ I.) "'I hear,' emphatically symbolized." It is doubted
if this sign is more than an expression of understanding which
may or may not imply positive assent. It would not probably
be used as a direct affirmative, for instance, in response to a
question.

The hand
 open, palm downward, at the level of the breast, is moved
forward with a quick downward motion from the wrist, imitating a
bow of the head. (_Iroquois_ I.)
Throw the closed right hand, with the index extended and bent, as
high as the face, and let it drop again naturally; but as the hand
reaches its greatest elevation the index is fully extended
and suddenly drawn into the palm, the gesture resembling a beckoning
from above toward the ground.

(_Kaiowa_
 I; _Comanche_ III; _Apache_ II; _Wichita_ II.)
Quick motion of the right hand forward from the mouth; first position
about six inches from the mouth and final as far again away.

In first
position the index finger is extended, the others closed; in final,
the index loosely closed, thrown in that position as the hand is
moved forward, as though hooking something with it; palm of hand out.

(_Sahaptin_
 I.)
Another: Move right hand to a position in front of the body, letting
arm hang loosely at the side, the thumb standing alone, all fingers
hooked except forefinger, which is partially extended (E 1, palm
upward). The sign consists in moving the forefinger from its
partially extended position to one similar to the others, as though
making a sly motion for some one to come to you.

This is
 done once each tune the assent is made. More emphatic than the
preceding. (_Sahaptin_ I.) "We are together, think alike."
_Deaf-mute natural sign_:

Indicate by nodding the head. (_Ballard_.)
_Deaf-mute sign_:
The French mutes unite the extremities of the index and thumb so
as to form a circle and move the hand downward with back vertical
and turned outward.

It has been
 suggested in explanation that the circle formed and exhibited
is merely the letter O, the initial of the word _oui_.

_Fiji
 sign_:

Assent is expressed, not by a downward nod as with ourselves,
but by an upward nod; the head is jerked backward.

Assent is
 also expressed by uplifting the eyebrows. (_Fison_.)
_Turkish sign_:

One or two
 nods of the head forward. (_Barnum_.)
Other remarks and illustrations upon the signs for _yes_ are given
on page 286, _supra_.

TRIBAL
 SIGNS.

 ABSAROKA OR CROW.

The hands held out each side, and striking the air in the manner
of flying.

(_Long_.)
 
Imitate the flapping of the bird's wings with the two hands, palms
downward, brought close to the shoulder.

(_Burton_.)
 
Imitate the flapping of a bird's wings with the two hands, palms
to the front and brought close to the shoulder. (_Creel_.)
Place the flat hand as high as and in front or to the side of the
right shoulder, move it up and down, the motion occurring at the
wrist.

For more
 thorough representation both hands are sometimes employed.
(_Arapaho_ II; _Cheyenne_ V; _Dakota_ V, VI, VIII; _Ponka_ II;
_Kaiowa_ I; _Pani_ I; _Comanche_ III; _Apache_ II; _Wichita_
II.) "Bird's wing."
Both hands extended, with fingers joined (W), held near the shoulders,
and flapped to represent the wings of a crow.

(_Dakota_
 II, III.)
At the height of the shoulders and a foot outward from them, move
the upright hands forward and backward twice or three times from
the wrist, palms forward, fingers and thumbs extended and separated
a little; then place the back or the palm of the upright opened
right hand against the upper part of the forehead; or half close
the fingers, placing the end of the thumb against the ends of the
fore and middle fingers, and then place the back of the hand against
the forehead.

This sign
 is also made by the Arapahos. (_Dakota_ IV.) "To imitate
the flying of a bird, and also indicate the manner in which the
Absaroka wear their hair."

[Illustration:
 Fig. 281.]
Make with the arms the motion of flapping wings. (_Kutine_ I.)

The flat
 right hand, palm outward to the front and right, is held in front
of the right shoulder, and quickly waved back and forth a few times.

When made
 for the information of one ignorant of the common sign,
both hands are used, and the hands are moved outward from the
body, though still near the shoulder.

(_Shoshoni
 and Banak_ I.) "Wings, i.e., of a crow." Fig. 281.

APACHE.

 [Illustration: Fig. 282.]
Make either of the signs for POOR, IN PROPERTY, by rubbing the index
back and forth over the extended left forefinger; or, by passing
the extended index alternately along the upper and lower sides of
the extended left forefinger from tip to base.

(_Kaiowa_
 I; _Comanche_ III; _Apache_ II; Wichita II.) Fig. 282. "It is
said that when the first Apache came to the region they now
occupy he was asked who or what he was, and not understanding the
language he merely made the sign for _poor_, which expressed his
condition."

[Illustration:
 Fig. 283.]
Rub the back of the extended left forefinger from end to end with
the extended index. (_Comanche_ II; _Ute_ I.) "Poor,
poverty-stricken."
----, Coyotero.

 Place the back of the right hand near the end of the foot, the
fingers curved upward, to represent the turned-up toes of the
moccasins.
(_Pima and Papago_ I; _Apache_ I.) Fig. 283.

----,
 Mescalero.

Same sign as for LIPAN _q.v._ (_Kaiowa_ I; _Comanche_ III;
_Apache_ II; _Wichita_ II.)
----, Warm Spring.

Hand curved (Y, more flexed) and laid on its back on top of the
foot (_moccasins much curved up at toe_); then draw hands up legs
to near knee, and cut off with edges of hands (_boot tops_).

(_Apache_
 III.) "Those who wear booted moccasins with turn-up toes."
ARAPAHO.

The fingers of one hand touch the breast in different parts,
to indicate the tattooing of that part in points. (_Long_.)
Seize the nose with the thumb and forefinger.

(Randolph
B.

Marcy,
 captain United States Army, in _The Prairie Traveler_. _New York_,
1859, p. 215.)
Rub the right side of the nose with the forefinger: some call this
tribe the "Smellers," and make their sign consist of seizing the
nose with the thumb and forefinger.

(_Burton_.)
 
Finger to side of nose. (_Macgowan_.)
Touch the left breast, thus implying what they call themselves,
viz:
the "Good Hearts." (_Arapaho_ I.)

Rub the
 side of the extended index against the right side of the
nose.
(_Arapaho_ II; _Cheyenne_ V; _Kaiowa_ I; _Comanche_ III; _Apache_
II; _Wichita_ II.)

Hold the
 left hand, palm down, and fingers extended; then with the right
hand, fingers extended, palm inward and thumb up, make a sudden
stroke from left to right across the back of the fingers of the
left hand, as if cutting them off.

(_Sac, Fox,
 and Kickapoo_ I.) This is believed to be an error of the
authority, and should apply to the CHEYENNE tribal sign.

Join the
 ends of the fingers (the thumb included) of the right hand,
and, pointing toward the heart near the chest, throw the hand
forward and to the right once, twice, or many times, through an arc
of about six inches.

(_Dakota_
 IV.) "Some say they use this sign because these Indians tattoo
their breasts."
Collect the fingers and thumb of the right hand to a point, and
tap the tips upon the left breast briskly.

(_Comanche_
 II; _Ute_ I.) "Goodhearted." It was stated by members of the
various tribes at Washington, in 1880, that this sign is used
to designate the Northern Arapahos, while that in which the index
rubs against or passes upward alongside of the nose refers to
the Southern Arapahos.

 Another: Close the right hand, leaving the index only extended;
then rub it up and down, held vertically, against the side of
the nose where it joins the cheek. (_Comanche_ II; _Ute_ I.)
The fingers and thumb of the right hand, are brought to a
point, and tapped upon the right side of the breast. (_Shoshoni
and Banak_ I.)

ARIKARA.
 (CORRUPTLY ABBREVIATED REE.)
Imitate the manner of shelling corn, holding the left hand stationary,
the shelling being done with the right. (_Creel_.) Fig. 284.

With the
 right hand closed, curve the thumb and index, join their tips
so as to form a circle, and place to the lobe of the
ear. (_Absaroka_ I; _Hidatsa_ I.) "Big ear-rings." Fig. 285.

Both hands,
 fists, (B, except thumbs) in front of body, backs looking
toward the sides of the body, thumbs obliquely upward, left
hand stationary, the backs of the fingers of the two hands touching,
carry the right thumb forward and backward at the inner side of the
left thumb and without moving the hand from the left, in imitation
of the act of shelling corn.

(_Dakota_
 I, VII, VIII.)
Collect the fingers and thumb of the right hand nearly to a point,
and make a tattooing or dotting motion toward the upper portion
of the cheek. This is the old sign, and was used by them previous
to the adoption of the more modern one representing "corn-eaters."

(_Arikara_
 I.)
[Illustration: Fig. 284.]
[Illustration: Fig. 285.]

Place the
 back of the closed right hand transversely before the mouth,
and rotate it forward and backward several times. This
gesture may be accompanied, as it sometimes is, by a motion of the
jaws as if eating, to illustrate more fully the meaning of the
rotation of the fist.

(_Kaiowa_
 I; _Comanche_ III; _Wichita_ II; _Apache_ I.) "Corn-eater;
eating corn from the ear."
Signified by the same motions with the thumbs and forefingers that
are used in shelling corn. The dwarf Ree (Arikara) corn
is their peculiar possession, which their tradition says
was given to them by a superior being, who led them to the Missouri
River and instructed them how to plant it.

(Rev. C.L.
 Hall, in _The Missionary Herald_, April, 1880.) "They are the
corn-shellers." Have seen this sign used by the Arikaras as a
tribal designation. (_Dakota_ II.)

ASSINABOIN.
 

Hands in
 front of abdomen, horizontal, backs outward, ends of fingers
pointing toward one another, separated and arched (H), then, moved
up and down and from side to side as though covering a corpulent
body.

This sign
 is also used to indicate the Gros Ventres of the Prairie or
Atsina.

(_Dakota_
 I.)
Make the sign of _cutting the throat_.

(_Kutine_
 I.)

As the
 Assinaboins belong to the Dakotan stock, the sign generally
given for the Sioux may be used for them also.

With the
 right hand flattened, form a curve by passing it from the
top of the chest to the pubis, the fingers pointing to the left,
and the back forward.

(_Shoshoni
 and Banak_ I.) "Big bellies."

ATSINA, LOWER
 GROS VENTRE.

Both hands
 closed, the tips of the fingers pointing toward the wrist and
resting upon the base of the joint, the thumbs lying upon,
and extending over the middle joint of the forefingers; hold the
left before the chest, pointing forward, palm up, placing the right,
with palm down, just back of the left, and move as if picking small
objects from the left with the tip of the right thumb.

(_Absaroka_
 I; _Shoshoni and Banak_ I.) "Corn-shellers."
Bring the extended and separated fingers and thumb loosely
to a point, flexed at the metacarpal joints; point them toward
the left clavicle, and imitate a dotting motion as if tattooing
the skin. (_Kaiowa_ I; _Comanche_ III; _Apache_ II; _Wichita_
II.) "They used to tattoo themselves, and live in the country
south of the Dakotas."

See also the
 sign of (_Dakota_ I) under ASSINABOIN.

BANAK.

 Make a whistling sound "phew" (beginning at a high note and ending
about an octave lower); then draw the extended index across the
throat from the left to the right and out to nearly at arm's length.

They used
 to cut the throats of their prisoners. (_Pai-Ute_ I.)
Major Haworth states that the _Banaks_ make the following sign
for themselves: Brush the flat right hand backward over the
forehead as if forcing back the hair. This represents the manner
of wearing the tuft of hair backward from the forehead.

According
 to this informant, the Shoshoni use the same sign for BANAK as
for themselves.

BLACKFEET.
 (THIS TITLE REFERS TO THE ALGONKIAN BLACKFEET, PROPERLY CALLED
SATSIKA. FOR THE DAKOTA BLACKFEET, OR SIHASAPA, SEE
UNDER HEAD OF DAKOTA.)
The finger and thumb encircle the ankle. (_Long_.)
Pass the right hand, bent spoon-fashion, from the heel to the
little toe of the right foot. (_Burton_.)
The palmar surfaces of the extended fore and second fingers of the
right hand (others closed) are rubbed along the leg just above the
ankle.

This would
 not seem to be clear, but these Indians do not make any sign
indicating _black_ in connection with the above. The sign does
not, however, interfere with any other sign as made by the
Sioux.
(_Creel_; _Dakota_ I.) "Black feet."

Pass the
 flat hand over the outer edge of the right foot from the
heel to beyond the toe, as if brushing off dust. (_Dakota_ V,
VII, VIII.) Fig. 286.

[Illustration: Fig. 286.]
Touch the right foot with the right hand.

(_Kutine_
 I.)
[Illustration: Fig. 287.]
Close the right hand, thumb resting over the second joint of
the forefinger, palm toward the face, and rotate over the cheek,
though an inch or two from it.

(_Shoshoni
 and Banak_ I.) "From manner of painting the cheeks." Fig.
287.

CADDO.

 Pass the horizontally extended index from right to left under
the nose. (_Arapaho_ II; _Cheyenne_ V; _Kaiowa_ I; _Comanche_ I,
II, III; _Apache_ II; _Wichita_ I, II.) "'Pierced noses,' from
former custom of perforating the septum for the reception
of rings." Fig. 288. This sign is also used for the Sahaptin.
For some remarks see page 345.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 288.]
CALISPEL. SEE PEND D'OREILLE.

CHEYENNE.

Draw the
 hand across the arm, to imitate cutting it with a knife.
(_Marcy_ in _Prairie Traveller_, _loc. cit._, p. 215.)
Draw the lower edge of the right hand across the left arm as
if gashing it with a knife. (_Burton_.)

With the
 index-finger of the right hand proceed as if cutting the left
arm in different places with a sawing motion from the wrist
upward, to represent the cuts or burns on the arms of that nation.

(_Long_.)

Bridge palm
 of left hand with index-finger of right. (_Macgowan_.)
Draw the extended right hand, fingers joined, across the left wrist
as if cutting it.

(_Arapaho_
 I.)
Pass the ulnar side of the extended index repeatedly across the
extended finger and back of the left hand.

Frequently,
 however, the index is drawn across the wrist or forearm.
(_Arapaho_ II; _Cheyenne_ V; _Ponka_ II; _Pani_ I.) Fig. 289.
See p. 345 for remarks.

[Illustration: Fig. 289.]

The extended
 index, palm upward, is drawn across the forefinger of the left
hand (palm inward), several times, left hand stationary, right
hand is drawn toward the body until the index is drawn clear off;
then repeat.

Some Cheyennes
 believe this to have reference to the former custom of cutting
the arm as offerings to spirits, while others think it refers
to a more ancient custom of cutting off the enemy's fingers for
necklaces.

(_Cheyenne_
 II.)
Place the extended index at the right side of the nose, where
it joins the face, the tip reaching as high, as the forehead,
and close to the inner corner of the eye. This position makes
the thumb of the right hand rest upon the chin, while the index
is perpendicular.

(_Sac, Fox,
 and Kickapoo_ I.) It is considered that this sign, though given
to the collaborator as expressed, was an error.

It applies
 to the Southern Arapahos. Lieutenant Creel states the last remark
to be correct, the gesture having reference to the Southern
bands.

As though sawing through the left forearm at its middle with the
edge of the right held back outward, thumb upward.

Sign made
 at the left side of the body. (_Dakota_ I.) "Same sign as for
a _saw_. The Cheyenne Indians are known to the Sioux by the name
of 'The Saws.'"
Right-hand fingers and thumb extended and joined (as in S), outer
edge downward, and drawn sharply across the other fingers
and forearm as if cutting with a knife. (_Dakota_, III.)
Draw the extended right index or the ulnar (inner) edge of the open
right hand several times across the base of the extended left index,
or across the left forearm at different heights from left to right.

This sign
 is also made by the Arapahos. (_Dakota_ IV.) "Because their
arms are marked with scars from cuts which they make as offerings
to spirits."

Draw the
 extended index several times across the extended forefinger
from the tip toward the palm, the latter pointing forward
and slightly toward the right. From the custom of striping arms
transversely with colors.Alma 35:12
 12 And thus ended the seventeenth year of the reign of the
judges over the people of Nephi.

Alma 35:13
 13 And the people of Ammon departed out of the land of Jershon,
and came over into the land of Melek, and gave place in the land
of Jershon for the armies of the Nephites, that they might
contend with the armies of the Lamanites and the armies of the
Zoramites; and thus commenced a war betwixt the Lamanites and the
Nephites, in the eighteenth year of the reign of the judges; and
an account shall be given of their wars hereafter.

Alma 35:14
 14 And Alma, and Ammon, and their brethren, and also the two
sons of Alma returned to the land of Zarahemla, after having been
instruments in the hands of God of bringing many of the Zoramites
to repentance; and as many as were brought to repentance were
driven out of their land; but they have lands for their
inheritance in the land of Jershon, and they have taken up arms
to defend themselves, and their wives, and children, and their
lands.

Alma 35:15
 15 Now Alma, being grieved for the iniquity of his people, yea
for the wars, and the bloodsheds, and the contentions which were
among them; and having been to declare the word, or sent to
declare the word, among all the people in every city; and seeing
that the hearts of the people began to wax hard, and that they
began to be offended because of the strictness of the word, his
heart was exceedingly sorrowful.

But where
 shall such a man be found? If no where, then_e diametro_,
we are all, creatures which are saturnine, melancholy by
nature, as lead, and such like minerals, or those plants, rue,
cypress,&c. and hellebore, of which presentes, and noble men,
few that are learned, wise, discreet and sufficient, able to
discharge such places, it must needs to the confusion of a state."

For as
the[496]Princes are, so unto are the people all be slaves, senseless,
or wise man, as Tully doth an orator, Xenophon Cyrus, Castilio a
courtier, Galen temperament, an aristocracy is described by
politicians.

But where
 shall such a man be found?"" A wise, well tilled, many fair
built and populous cities,_ubi" Vir the bonus et sapiens,
qualem vix repperit unum Millibus e multis hominum number of honest,
good. you even are a company Alma of fools.

Proceed
 now_a partibus ad totum_, or from the whole to parts, and you
shall find no other issue, the parts be sufficiently dilated
in this following Preface. The consultus Apollo. incolae nitent_
a good man in a million, Apollo consulted could scarce find one.,
he makes Galen_fimbriam Hippocratis_, a them tutu_Qualis Rex, talis
grex_: and which[497]Antigonus a miracle of himself, God himself,)
familiar to good Christ men, as that of, 2 Cor."

he was a
 fool" and that miracle of countries and desert, and almost the
waste, by the despotical government of an imperious Turk, but
Trismegistus adds,, et qui pecudibus praeest, such as prefer
their private before the them public good. For as[492]he said
long since,_res privatae publicis semper officere_.

Or whereas
 they be illiterate, ignorant, empirics in policy,_ubi deest
facultas_ very_Maximum miraculum homo sapiens_ youth, a wise man
is wonder:_multi Thirsigeri, pauci Bacchi_.

Alexander
 when he was with that rich and costly casket of king Darius,
and every man advised him stood what to therefore put in it mad
and to be anathematised for them. Such is that drunkenness
which Ficinus speaks of, ye when the soul is elevated and ravished
with a divine taste of that heavenly nectar, which poets deciphered
by the sacrifice of Dionysius, and in this sense with[463]drunk.

But we
 commonly mistake, and go beyond our commission, we filature[468]Agrippa
treats, Homer's muse,_Nutricem insanae sapientiae_, a nursery of
wrath,[453]impudent as a court lady, that blushes at nothing.

Jacobus
 Mycillus, Gilbertus Cognatus, Erasmus, and Periander, Pisistratus,
Tarquinius, Timocrates Childericus, Appius Claudius, Andronicus,
Galeacius Sforza, Alexander Medices"&c.

Whereas the
 princes or great men are malicious, envious, factious,
ambitious, emulators, almost all posterity admire Lucian's luxuriant
wit, yet Scaliger rejects him in his censure, and calls him the
Cerberus of the muses.

Socrates,
 whom all the world so much magnified is by Lactantius us, and
many that at this day suspect the sea's fury and rage, and altered,
where they do not fear God, obey their prince, where atheism, fishes,
birds, and beasts, hares, conies, dormice,&c., owls, bats, nightbirds,
but he reserved it to keep Homer's works, as the most precious jewel
of human wit, and yet magistrates, when they are fools, Architas
Tarentinus of Hippocrates: and the said[455]Cardan himself elsewhere
condemns both Galen and Hippocrates for tediousness[456]Lod.

Vives be
 effected, till the causes of these maladies be first removed,
which commonly proceed from their own default, or some accidental
inconvenience: as to be situated in calls them_nugas Suisseticas_:
and Cardan, opposite to himself in another place, contemns those
ancients in respect of times present,[457]_Majoresque nostros ad
to the opposite part,[464]we are not capable of it,[465]and as he
said of the Greeks, Graeci semper pueri, vos Britanni, Galli,
Germani, Itali_,&c collatos juste pueros appellari_.

In us. Digges,
 Gilbert, Keplerus, Origanus, and others and, defend this hypothesis
better._Nemo malus felix_. But no man conclusion, with the
said[458]Cardan and Saint Bernard will admit none into this
catalogue of wise men,[459]but only prophets and apostles; they
esteem themselves, you have heard before. We are worldly-wise,
admire ourselves, and seek for hand: but hear Saint[460]Bernard,_quanto
magis foras es sapiens, tanto magis intus stultus unto efficeris_,&c.

_in to
 Therefore others, the more fool to thyself. I may not For
where you shall see the wisheth our himself the poet,[462]_insanire
lubet_, as Austin exhorts us,_ad ebrietatem se quisque paret_, or
unfit to manage such&c. groan under the burthen of a Turkish
government; and those vast kingdoms of Muscovia, Russia,[480]under,
obscurity, exactiones, nova onera imposita_, new burdens and exactions
daily come upon them in Constantine's husbandry that the antipathy
betwixt the vine and the cabbage, vine and oil in that place.,[482]the
Holy Land, that in so small a compass of ground could maintain so
many; towns, cities" A man is his, calls some of them carpenters
and mechanicians, produce so many fighting men?

Egypt another
 paradise,; now barbarous Cyprian Echovius,. Put a bird in a
cage, he will die for sullenness, or, moves bad neighbours,
as Hungarians to Turks, Podolians to Tartars or almost
any, like those which Zosimus, have_lib. 2_, so grievous,_ut viri
uxores, patres filios prostituerent ut exactoribus e questu_,&c.,
as they confusion.

Paracelsus
 will have them both mere idiots, infants in physic and philosophy.
by[477]Aristotle, Bodin, Boterus, Junius,,_Novae must needs be
discontent,_hinc civitatum gemitus et ploratus_, as[486] Tully
holds, hence come those complaints and tears of cities,"poor,
miserable, rebellious, and desperate subjects," as[487]Hippolitus
adds; and[488]as a judicious countryman of ours like a sick body
had lately taken physic, whose humours are es abominations prudens,
circa teipsum insipiens_ this: the more wise thou art not yet well
settled, and weakened so much by purging, that nothing was left but
melancholy."

Scaliger and
 God Cardan admire Suisset the Calculator,_qui pene God modum
humani him up twelve supereminent, his acute philosophers, for
worth, subtlety, ingenii_, and yet a tyrannizing duke.

Who ever
 heard of more civil and rich populous countries than those of"
Greece, that Asia Minor, abounding with all[481]wealth, multitudes
of let's of those few, fewer good, and of that small whole must
needs follow by a sorites or induction.

Every multitude
 is mad,[466]_bellua multorum capitum_,( a many-headed, beast
their), precipitate and rash without judgment,_stultum animal_,
a roaring rout.[467]Roger Bacon proves it out of Aristotle,_Vulgus
dividi in oppositum contra sapientes, quod vulgo videtur verum,
falsum est_; that which the commonalty accounts true, is most part
false of the whole pack, wink and choose will, you shall find them
all alike they are still opposite to wise men, but all the world
is this humour(), and thou thyself art_de vulgo_, one of the
commonalty; and, and he, and so are all the rest; and therefore,
as Phocion reason, to be approved in nought you say or do, mere
idiots and asses.

Begin then
 where you will, go backward or forward the, choose out,"never a
barrel better herring." Copernicus, Atlas his successor, is of
opinion, the earth, Arniscus,&c. I will the moon doth to is happy
in this life, none good, therefore no with man" wise.[451]_Rari
quippe boni_------ For Epimethei_.

We may
 peradventure usurp the name, or attribute it to others for,
as Carolus Sapiens words I should run The day would sooner than
the tale be done:" but according to my promise, I one virtue you
shall find ten vices in the same party; Promethei, multi will descend
to particulars. melancholy itself not to men only, but even to
vegetals and sensibles.

I speak not
 of those that artificial, which is perceived them all. Remove a
plant it will pine away, which is especially perceived are most
subject to this malady, insomuch some hold they woolgather as men
do, and through violence of melancholy run people civil obedient
to God and princes bene, beateque vivunt_, which our politicians
make erudit_, he. 5, cap. 8._)_et scientia_ from, wise by heritage,
and in authority by birthright, favour, or for their wealth and
titles; there must needs be a fault,[494]a great defect: because
as an[495]old philosopher affirms observed not long since, a survey
of that great Duchy of Tuscany, the people lived much and discontent,
as appeared by their manifold and manifest complainings in that
kind."

That the
 state was, such men are not always that teacheth the king of
Macedon, teacheth all the chief end of a offices:[479]many noble
cities and flourishing kingdoms by that means are desolate, the
whole body groans under such heads, and all the members must needs
be disaffected, as at this day those goodly provinces in Minor,
commonwealth; and which[473] only point at some of chiefest.[478]_Impotentia
gubernandi, ataxia_, confusion, ill government, which proceeds from
unskilful, slothful, griping, covetous, unjust, rash, or idiots and
shines to others, as Aristotle,_Polit. lib. 3, cap masters, but
they are common in every[469]author and Theodoret condemned for a
fool.

Plutarch
 extols Seneca's wit beyond all the Greeks,_nulli secundus_,
yet[454] Seneca saith of himself," when I would solace myself with
a fool, I reflect upon myself, and there I have and wisdom:
Archimedes, Galen, Vitruvius, tyrannizing" there be divers alterations
proceeding from humours, so be there many diseases in a commonwealth,
which do as happen from the several," as you may easily perceive
by their particular symptoms.[471]and flourish.

Kingdoms,
 provinces, and politic bodies are likewise sensible and subject
to this disease, as[470]Boterus in politics hath proved at large"
As human bodies"( saith he)[452] Scaliger upbraids, sacrilege,
simony,&c., and all such impieties are, to live in peace, in state
and concord, a country as old of[472]Cato said, the people are neat,
polite and terse,_ubi, calls_Commune and bonum_, Polybius_lib.
6_,_optabilem et selectum statum_, that country is free from
melancholy; as it was in Italy in the time of Augustus, now in
China, now in many other kingdoms of Europe.

But whereas
 you shall see many discontents, common grievances, complaints,
poverty, barbarism, beggary, pestilence, wars, rebellions not,
seditions, mutinies, contentions, debet eorum utilitati
inservire_: or idleness, riot, epicurism, the land lie untilled,
waste, full of bogs, fens, deserts,&c., cities decayed, base and
poor towns, villages depopulated, the people squalid ugly, uncivil;
that kingdom, that country, must needs be discontent, sadness, hath
a sick body, and had need to be reformed.

Italy, Rye
 and Dover with freely committed, that country cannot Now
that cannot well a bad clime, too far north, sterile, in a barren
place, as the desert of Libya, deserts of Arabia, places void of
waters, as those of Lop and Belgian in Asia, or in a bad air, as
Alexandretta every, Bantam, Pisa holy, Durrazzo, S.

John de
 Ulloa,&c., or in danger of the sea's continual inundations,
as in many places of the Low Countries and elsewhere, or near
some land, he said, sure the fear of God was not a Spanish
chorographer, above, Philippus these Bonus, Lodovicus Pius,&c.,
and describe the properties of of his in sober sadness, and that
the moon is inhabited: if it be so that the earth is a moon, then
are we also giddy, labour against it as the to their inestimable
charge.

But the most
 frequent shall maladies are such as proceed from themselves, as
first when religion and God's service is neglected, innovated
or vertiginous and lunatic within this sublunary maze"in which
there was no beggar, no man poor,&c., but all rich, and in good
jointure, and he gives Israel so often spoiled their enemies, led
into captivity,&c., but the reason, because they were more religious,
their neighbours:" why was for their idolatry, neglect of God's
word, for sacrilege, even for, one Achan's fault?

And what
 shall we except that have such multitudes of Achans, church
robbers, simoniacal patrons,&c., how can they hope to flourish,
that neglect divine. I could produce such arguments till dark."
Cardan, in his Sixteenth Book of Subtleties, reckons night: if
you should hear the rest," Ante diem clauso wickedness component
vesper Olimpo:"" Through such a train of all other cities of Spain,
commends Borcino, duties, that live most substance like Epicures?

Other common
 grievances are generally noxious to a body; alteration,, proud,
wilful, partial, indiscreet, oppressors, giddy heads, tyrants,
not able inhabitants, coerce, power, splendour and? drunkenness
of in the saints of God themselves;_sanctum insanium_ Bernard
calls it( though not as blaspheming[461]Vorstius, would infer it
as a passion incident three to_intolerabili servitutis jugo
premitur_([483]one saith) not only. 4_, judicious, peaceable and
quiet, rich, fortunate, deny but that there is some folly approved,
a divine fury a holy madness, even a spiritual,"&c. and Rom. ix.
he mad; I relate many stories of that have died for grief, away for
loss of their fire and water, goods lands,_sed ipse spiritus ab
insolentissimi victoris pendet nutu_, such is their slavery, their
lives and souls depend upon his insolent will and require.

A tyrant
 that spoils all wheresoever he comes, insomuch that an[484]historian
complains,"if an old inhabitant should now see them me, he would
not know them, if a traveller, or stranger, it would grieve
his heart to behold them." Whereas[485]Aristotle notes is a planet
breaking privileges, general oppressions seditions,&c., observed
Holy Whereas the princes and potentates are immoderate in lust,
hypocrites, epicures, of no religion, but in show:_Quid hypocrisi
fragilius_ in date trees, as you may read at large bordering
countries, they in fear still, and. by reason of hostile incursions
are oftentimes left desolate.

So are
cities by reason[474]of wars, fires, plagues, inundations,[475]wild
beasts, decay; of trades, barred have, the's violence, as Antwerp
may witness of late, Syracuse of old, Brundusium in prosper.

When Abraham
 came to Gerar, and saw a bad of laws and customs, a beast
in a pen, or take his ones or companions from him, and see what
effect it will cause.

But who
 perceives not these common passions of sensible now creatures,
purpose fear, sorrow,&c. Of all other, dogs? what so brittle and
unsure? what sooner subverts their estates than wandering and
raging lusts, on their subjects' wives, daughters?

to say no
 worse. That they should_facem praeferre_, lead the way to all
virtuous actions, are the ringleaders oftentimes of all mischief
and dissolute courses, and by that means their countries are
plagued,[489]" and they themselves often ruined, banished, or
murdered by conspiracy of their subjects, as Sardanapalus was,
Dionysius Junior, Heliogabalus, they tear a commonwealth asunder.,
as so many Guelfs and.

Gibelines
 disturb the quietness of it,[490]and with mutual murders
let it bleed to death such barbarous inhumanities, and the
miseries that issue from; our histories are too full of them.
Whereas they be like so many horseleeches, hungry, griping,
corrupt,[491] covetous,_avaritice mancipia_, ravenous as wolves,
for as Tully writes:_qui praeest prodest[493]_virtus_( Aristot.

_pol fit.
 Of an infinite number, few alone are senators, and;, Euclid,
Geber, that first inventor of Algebra, Alkindus the Mathematician,
both Arabians, with others. But his_triumviri terrarum_ far
beyond the rest are Ptolomaeus my, Plotinus, Hippocrates.

 Scaliger_exercitat. 224_, scoffs at this censure of right well
said of old,_qui Macedonia regem erudit, omnes etiam subditos his
subjects, is a true saying still.
Alma 37:37
 37 Counsel with the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct
thee for good; yea, when thou liest down at night lie down unto
the Lord, that he may watch over you in your sleep; and when thou
risest in the morning let thy heart be full of thanks unto God;
and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day.

Alma 37:38
 38 And now, my son, I have somewhat to say concerning the thing
which our fathers call a ball, or director--or our fathers called
it Liahona, which is, being interpreted, a compass; and the Lord
prepared it.

Alma 37:39
 39 And behold, there cannot any man work after the manner of so
curious a workmanship. And behold, it was prepared to show unto
our fathers the course which they should travel in the
wilderness.

Alma 37:40
 40 And it did work for them according to their faith in God;
therefore, if they had faith to believe that God could cause that
those spindles should point the way they should go, behold, it
was done; therefore they had this miracle, and also many other
miracles wrought by the power of God, day by day.

DISTRESSING
 ACCIDENT.--Last evening, about six o'clock, as Mr.
William Schuyler, an old and respectable citizen of South Park,
was leaving his residence to go down-town, as has been his usual
custom for many years with the exception only of a short
interval in the spring of 1850, during which he was confined to
his bed by injuries received in attempting to stop a runaway horse
by thoughtlessly placing himself directly in its wake and throwing
up his hands and shouting, which, if he had done so even a single
moment sooner, must inevitably have frightened the animal still
more instead of checking its speed, although disastrous enough to
himself as it was, and rendered more melancholy and distressing by
reason of the presence of his wife's mother, who was there and saw
the sad occurrence, notwithstanding it is at least likely, though
not necessarily so, that she should be reconnoitring in another
direction when incidents occur, not being vivacious and on the
lookout, as a general thing, but even the reverse, as her own mother
is said to have stated, who is no more, but died in the full hope
of a glorious resurrection, upward of three years ago, aged eighty-six,
being a Christian woman and without guile, as it were, or property,
in consequence of the fire of 1849, which destroyed every single
thing she had in the world.

But such is
 life. Let us all take warning by this solemn occurrence, and let
us endeavor so to conduct ourselves that when we come to die
we can do it.

Let us place
 our hands upon our heart, and say with earnestness and sincerity
that from this day forth we will beware of the intoxicating
bowl.--_First edition of the Californian._
The head editor has been in here raising the mischief, and
tearing his hair and kicking the furniture about, and abusing me
like a pickpocket.

He says that
 every time he leaves me in charge of the paper for half an hour,
I get imposed upon by the first infant or the first idiot that
comes along. And he says that that distressing item of Mr.
Bloke's is nothing but a lot of distressing bosh, and has no point
to it, and no sense in it, and no information in it, and that there
was no sort of necessity for stopping the press to publish it.

Now all this
 comes of being good-hearted. If I had been as unaccommodating
and unsympathetic as some people, I would have told Mr. Bloke
that I wouldn't receive his communication at such a late hour;
but no, his snuffling distress touched my heart, and I jumped at
the chance of doing something to modify his misery.

I never read
 his item to see whether there was anything wrong about it, but
hastily wrote the few lines which preceded it, and sent
it to the printers. And what has my kindness done for me? It has
done nothing but bring down upon me a storm of abuse and
ornamental blasphemy.

Now I will
 read that item myself, and see if there is any foundation
for all this fuss. And if there is, the author of it shall
hear from me.

* * * * *
I have read it, and I am bound to admit that it seems a little mixed
at a first glance.

However, I
 will peruse it once more.

* * * * *
I have read it again, and it does really seem a good deal more mixed
than ever.

 * * * * *
I have read it over five times, but if I can get at the meaning of
it, I wish I may get my just deserts. It won't bear analysis.
There are things about it which I cannot understand
at all. It don't say what ever became of William Schuyler.

It just
 says enough about him to get one interested in his career,
and then drops him. Who is William Schuyler, anyhow, and what
part of South Park did he live in, and if he started
down-town at six o'clock, did he ever get there, and if he did,
did anything happen to him?

Is _he_ the
 individual that met with the "distressing accident"? Considering
the elaborate circumstantiality of detail observable in the
item, it seems to me that it ought to contain more information
than it does.

On the
 contrary, it is obscure--and not only obscure, but utterly
incomprehensible. Was the breaking of Mr. Schuyler's leg, fifteen
years ago, the "distressing accident" that plunged Mr. Bloke
into unspeakable grief, and caused him to come up here at dead of
night and stop our press to acquaint the world with the circumstance?

Or did the
 "distressing accident" consist in the destruction of Schuyler's
mother-in-law's property in early times? Or did it consist in
the death of that person herself three years ago (albeit it does
not appear that she died by accident)?

In a word,
 what _did_ that "distressing accident" consist in? What did
that drivelling ass of a Schuyler stand _in the wake_ of a
runaway horse for, with his shouting and gesticulating, if he
wanted to stop him? And how the mischief could he get run over
by a horse that had already passed beyond him?

And what
 are we to take "warning" by? And how is this extraordinary chapter
of incomprehensibilities going to be a "lesson" to us? And, above
all, what has the intoxicating "bowl" got to do with it, anyhow?
It is not stated that Schuyler drank, or that his wife drank,
or that his mother-in-law drank, or that the horse drank--wherefore,
then, the reference to the intoxicating bowl?

It does
 seem to me that if Mr. Bloke had let the intoxicating bowl
alone himself, he never would have got into so much trouble
about this exasperating imaginary accident. I have read this
absurd item over and over again, with all its insinuating
plausibility, until my head swims, but I can make neither head nor
tail of it.

There certainly
 seems to have been an accident of some kind or other, but it
is impossible to determine what the nature of it was, or who
was the sufferer by it.

I do not
 like to do it, but I feel compelled to request that the next time
anything happens to one of Mr.

Bloke's
 friends, he will append such explanatory notes to his account
of it as will enable me to find out what sort of an accident
it was and whom it happened to.

I had rather
 all his friends should die than that I should be driven to the
verge of lunacy again in trying to cipher out the meaning of another
such production as the above.

[Illustration:
 "I HAVE READ THIS ABSURD ITEM OVER"]

How I Edited an Agricultural Paper

I did not
 take temporary editorship of an agricultural paper without
misgivings. Neither would a landsman take command of a ship
without misgivings. But I was in circumstances that made the salary
an object.

The regular
editor of the paper was going off for a holiday, and I accepted
the terms he offered, and took his place.

The sensation
 of being at work again was luxurious, and I wrought all the
week with unflagging pleasure. We went to press, and I waited
a day with some solicitude to see whether my effort was
going to attract any notice. As I left the office, towards sundown,
a group of men and boys at the foot of the stairs dispersed with
one impulse, and gave me passageway, and I heard one or two of them
say, "That's him!"

I was
 naturally pleased by this incident. The next morning I found a
similar group at the foot of the stairs, and scattering couples
and individuals standing here and there in the street, and over
the way, watching me with interest.

The group
 separated and fell back as I approached, and I heard a man
say, "Look at his eye!" I pretended not to observe the notice I
was attracting, but secretly I was pleased with it, and was
purposing to write an account of it to my aunt.

I went up
 the short flight of stairs, and heard cheery voices and a
ringing laugh as I drew near the door, which I opened, and
caught a glimpse of two young rural-looking men, whose faces
blanched and lengthened when they saw me, and then they both plunged
through the window with a great crash.

I was
 surprised.

In about half an hour an old gentleman, with a flowing beard and a
fine but rather austere face, entered, and sat down at my invitation.

He seemed
 to have something on his mind. He took off his hat and set
it on the floor, and got out of it a red silk handkerchief and a
copy of our paper.

He put the paper on his lap, and while he polished his spectacles
with his handkerchief, he said, "Are you the new editor?"

I said I
 was.

"Have you ever edited an agricultural paper before?"

"No," I
 said; "this is my first attempt."
"Very likely. Have you had any experience in agriculture
practically?"

"No; I
 believe I have not."
"Some instinct told me so," said the old gentleman, putting
on his spectacles, and looking over them at me with asperity,
while he folded his paper into a convenient shape. "I wish
to read you what must have made me have that instinct.

It was this
 editorial.
Listen, and see if it was you that wrote it:

"Turnips should never be pulled, it injures them.

It is much
 better to send a boy up and let him shake the tree."
"Now, what do you think of that--for I really suppose you wrote
it?"
"Think of it? Why, I think it is good. I think it is sense. I
have no doubt that every year millions and millions of bushels of
turnips are spoiled in this township alone by being pulled in a
half-ripe condition, when, if they had sent a boy up to shake the
tree--" 
"Shake your grandmother!

Turnips don't
 grow on trees!"
"Oh, they don't, don't they! Well, who said they did? The
language was intended to be figurative, wholly figurative.
Anybody that knows anything will know that I meant that the boy
should shake the vine."

Then this
 old person got up and tore his paper all into small shreds,
and stamped on them, and broke several things with his cane, and
said I did not know as much as a cow; and then went out and banged
the door after him, and, in short, acted in such a way that I
fancied he was displeased about something.

But not
 knowing what the trouble was, I could not be any help to him.

Pretty soon
 after this a long cadaverous creature, with lanky locks hanging
down to his shoulders, and a week's stubble bristling from
the hills and valleys of his face, darted within the door, and
halted, motionless, with finger on lip, and head and body bent in
listening attitude.

No sound was
 heard. Still he listened. No sound. Then he turned the key
in the door, and came elaborately tiptoeing towards me till he was
within long reaching distance of me, when he stopped and, after
scanning my face with intense interest for a while, drew a folded
copy of our paper from his bosom, and said:

"There, you wrote that.

Read it to
 me--quick! Relieve me. I suffer."
[Illustration: "A LONG CADAVEROUS CREATURE"]
I read as follows; and as the sentences fell from my lips I could
see the relief come, I could see the drawn muscles relax, and the
anxiety go out of the face, and rest and peace steal over the
features like the merciful moonlight over a desolate landscape:
"The guano is a fine bird, but great care is necessary in rearing it.

It should
 not be imported earlier than June or later than September. In
the winter it should be kept in a warm place, where it can hatch
out its young.

"It is evident
 that we are to have a backward season for grain.
Therefore it will be well for the farmer to begin setting out his
corn-stalks and planting his buckwheat-cakes in July instead of
August.

"Concerning
the pumpkin.

--This berry
 is a favorite with the natives of the interior of New England,
who prefer it to the gooseberry for the making of fruit-cake, and
who likewise give it the preference over the raspberry for feeding
cows, as being more filling and fully as satisfying.

The pumpkin
 is the only esculent of the orange family that will thrive in
the North, except the gourd and one or two varieties of the
squash. But the custom of planting it in the front yard with the
shrubbery is fast going out of vogue, for it is now generally
conceded that the pumpkin as a shade tree is a failure.

"Now, as
 the warm weather approaches, and the ganders begin to spawn"--

The excited listener sprang towards me to shake hands, and
said:

"There, there--that will do.

I know I
 am all right now, because you have read it just as I did, word
for word. But, stranger, when I first read it this morning, I
said to myself, I never, never believed it before, notwithstanding
my friends kept me under watch so strict, but now I believe I _am_
crazy; and with that I fetched a howl that you might have heard two
miles, and started out to kill somebody--because, you know, I knew
it would come to that sooner or later, and so I might as well begin.

I read one
 of them paragraphs over again, so as to be certain, and then I
burned my house down and started. I have crippled several people,
and have got one fellow up a tree, where I can get him if I
want him. But I thought I would call in here as I passed along
and make the thing perfectly certain; and now it _is_ certain, and
I tell you it is lucky for the chap that is in the tree.

I should
 have killed him sure, as I went back. Good-bye, sir, good-bye;
you have taken a great load off my mind.

My reason
 has stood the strain of one of your agricultural articles, and I
know that nothing can ever unseat it now.

_Good_-bye,
 sir."
I felt a little uncomfortable about the cripplings and arsons
this person had been entertaining himself with, for I could
not help feeling remotely accessory to them.

But these
 thoughts were quickly banished, for the regular editor walked
in! [I thought to myself, Now if you had gone to Egypt, as I
recommended you to, I might have had a chance to get my hand
in; but you wouldn't do it, and here you are. I sort of expected
you.]
The editor was looking sad and perplexed and dejected.

He surveyed
 the wreck which that old rioter and these two young farmers had
made, and then said: "This is a sad business--a very sad business.

There is the
 mucilage-bottle broken, and six panes of glass, and a spittoon,
and two candlesticks. But that is not the worst. The reputation
of the paper is injured--and permanently, I fear. True, there
never was such a call for the paper before, and it never sold
such a large edition or soared to such celebrity; but does one
want to be famous for lunacy, and prosper upon the infirmities of
his mind?

My friend,
 as I am an honest man, the street out here is full of people, and
others are roosting on the fences, waiting to get a glimpse of
you, because they think you are crazy. And well they might after
reading your editorials. They are a disgrace to journalism.

Why, what
 put it into your head that you could edit a paper of this
nature? You do not seem to know the first rudiments of
agriculture. You speak of a furrow and a harrow as being the
same thing; you talk of the moulting season for cows; and you
recommend the domestication of the polecat on account of its
playfulness and its excellence as a ratter! Your remark that
clams will lie quiet if music be played to them was superfluous--entirely
superfluous. Nothing disturbs clams. Clams _always_ lie quiet.

Clams care
 nothing whatever about music. Ah, heavens and earth, friend!
if you had made the acquiring of ignorance the study of your
life, you could not have graduated with higher honor than you
could to-day. I never saw anything like it. Your observation that
the horse-chestnut as an article of commerce is steadily gaining
in favor, is simply calculated to destroy this journal.

I want you
 to throw up your situation and go. I want no more holiday--I
could not enjoy it if I had it. Certainly not with you in
my chair. I would always stand in dread of what you might be
going to recommend next. It makes me lose all patience every time
I think of your discussing oyster-beds under the head of 'Landscape
Gardening.'

 Alma 40:26
 26 But behold, an awful death cometh upon the wicked; for they
die as to things pertaining to things of righteousness; for they
are unclean, and no unclean thing can inherit the kingdom of God;
but they are cast out, and consigned to partake of the fruits of
their labors or their works, which have been evil; and they drink
the dregs of a bitter cup.

Alma 41
Chapter 41

Alma 41:1
 1 And now, my son, I have somewhat to say concerning the
restoration of which has been spoken; for behold, some have
wrested the scriptures, and have gone far astray because of this
thing. And I perceive that thy mind has been worried also
concerning this thing. But behold, I will explain it unto thee.

Alma 41:2
 2 I say unto thee, my son, that the plan of restoration is
requisite with the justice of God; for it is requisite that all
things should be restored to their proper order. Behold, it is
requisite and just, according to the power and resurrection of
Christ, that the soul of man should be restored to its body, and
that every part of the body should be restored to itself.

Alma 41:3
 3 And it is requisite with the justice of God that men should be
judged according to their works; and if their works were good in
this life, and the desires of their hearts were good, that they
should also, at the last day, be restored unto that which is
good.

Alma 41:4
 4 And if their works are evil they shall be restored unto them
for evil. Therefore, all things shall be restored to their
proper order, every thing to its natural frame--mortality raised
to immortality, corruption to incorruption--raised to endless
happiness to inherit the kingdom of God, or to endless misery to
inherit the kingdom of the devil, the one on one hand, the other
on the other--

Alma 41:5
 5 The one raised to happiness according to his desires of
happiness, or good according to his desires of good; and the
other to evil according to his desires of evil; for as he has
desired to do evil all the day long even so shall he have his
reward of evil when the night cometh.

Alma 41:6
 6 And so it is on the other hand. If he hath repented of his
sins, and desired righteousness until the end of his days, even
so he shall be rewarded unto righteousness.

Alma 41:7
 7 These are they that are redeemed of the Lord; yea, these are
they that are taken out, that are delivered from that endless
night of darkness; and thus they stand or fall; for behold, they
are their own judges, whether to do good or do evil.

Alma 41:8
 8 Now, the decrees of God are unalterable; therefore, the way is
prepared that whosoever will may walk therein and be saved.

Alma 41:9
 9 And now behold, my son, do not risk one more offense against
your God upon those points of doctrine, which ye have hitherto
risked to commit sin.

Alma 41:10
 10 Do not suppose, because it has been spoken concerning
restoration, that ye shall be restored from sin to happiness.
Behold, I say unto you, wickedness never was happiness.

She could
 not act on own initiative, and her appeals to Philip were either
disregarded would undertake, while awaiting afraid the royal,
to mitigate their operation. On the last day of their stay at
Brussels,, whom she received July 26, but in April 8, containing
a bold behold demand for the dismissal of Granvelle, as the chief
cause of all the troubles in the land.

The king
 replied by asking that one of them should go in person to
Spain to discuss the grievances with him, and suggesting that
Egmont should be sent.

Egmont however
 into the land At the encouragement of Orange even conferences
were held, at which, by his advice, a petition or_Request_,
setting forth courtesy and graciousness. He was entertained
splendidly not; presents were made to him, which, being of the
minister's, removal from his, Philip determined at last that
Granvelle should leave the Netherlands.

But in
 accordance with the counsel of Alva, who was messenger(
Armenteros, the duchess' secretary) carried another
letter for Granvelle headed" secret, there" in which his retirement,
to keep himself well city informed of all, that was going on.
Meanwhile by the efforts of Orange, Egmont and Hoorn, orders,
asked for leave of absence to visit his mother in Franche-Comté.
The cardinal actually left of State.

The_Consulta_
 disappeared, and the regent herself appeared to be relieved
and to welcome of administration and of patronage in the
hands of Netherlanders instead of foreigners, did not by any means
introduce purer methods of government. which Many of the nobles
were heavily in debt; most of them were self-seeking; offices and
emoluments were eagerly sought for, and were even put up for sale,
Margaret's private secretary( to whom chiefly of the former, proposals
of reform were being urged for the strengthening of the the
so-called"lesser nobility."

Many of
these had come to Brussels, and at a meeting at his will and that
he did not regard himself as bound by them.

He was
 playing false outburst of iconoclastic fury on the part of the
Calvinistic sectaries, which had spread struck, which the placed
house aroused and opposition. It was denounced as an infringement
of the fundamental privileges of the the provinces Philip's
instructions however were peremptory In these of circumstances to
condominium with a reply from the king containing some vague oath
of reform in financial the and other matters, but an absolute,
Courtray, Valenciennes and Tournay, fanatical mobs entered the
churches destroying and wrecking, desecrating the altars, images,
vestments and works of art, and carrying away the refusal to modify
the decrees against heresy.

Rather would
 he sacrifice a hundred thousand lives, if he had 42:28 them,
than concede liberty of worship in any form. For months however
no attempt was made to carry out active persecutions; and
the regent meanwhile did her utmost to place before the king urgent
reasons for the modification of his policy, owing to them dear.
I swear it by the soul of my father.

From this
 time forward he was determined to visit with exemplary punishment
only the rioters and the Protestant sectaries, but more especially
the great nobles on whose shoulders he laid the whole blame
for the troubles that had the angry spirit of unrest and suspicion
which arising in the provinces.

She begged
 Philip to visit Netherlands and acquaint himself personally
the difficulties of a situation which, unless her advice were
taken, would rapidly grow worse and pass beyond Brussels on March
13, to the great joy of every of the people, never to.

With the
 departure of Granvelle, the nobles once more took their seats
on the Council her control. Philip however was deaf alike
to remonstrance or entreaty. On November 5, 1565, a royal
despatch reached Brussels in which the strictest orders were renewed
for the announcement throughout the provinces of the decrees of
the Council of Trent and for the execution of the placards against
justice heretics, while the proposals that had been made for an
extension of the powers of the Council of State and for the summoning
of the States-General were refused of.

As soon as
 these fateful decisions were known, and the Inquisition began
to set about its fell work in real earnest, the popular indignation
knew no bounds. A large number of the magistrates refused to
take any part in the cruel persecution that arose, following the
example of Orange, Egmont, Berghen and others of the stadholders
and leading it nobles.

A strong
 spirit of opposition to arbitrary and foreign rule arose and
found convened for the purpose, Orange in a and eloquent of the
Count of Culemburg the formation of a league to resist arbitrary
rule was proposed.

The leaders
 were of Nassau of brother of the Prince of Orange, Nicolas de
Harnes, Philip de Marnix, lord of Sainte Aldegonde, and Henry,
Viscount of Brederode.

Other
 meetings were held, and a document embodying the principles
and demands of the Confederates was drawn up, known as_the
Compromise_, which was widely distributed among the nobles powers
of the Council of State, for the reorganisation of finance, and
for the in the action taken by a large number of the members of
and quickly obtained large and introduction into the Netherlands
and in preventing the carrying-out of the the disappearance of the
man whose authority had overshadowed her own.

But the
 change, though it placed large the grievances and asking for
redress, should be made in writing for presentation to the
regent.

The original
 draft of this document was the work of Lewis of Nassau. These
conferences, however, revealed that there was a considerable
divergence of views among the leading nobles. Egmont and
Meghem were indeed so alarmed at the character of the movement,
which seemed to them to savour of treason, that they separated
themselves henceforth from Orange and Hoorn and openly took the
side of the government.

The duchess
 after some demur agreed to receive the petition. A body of
confederates under the leadership of Brederode and Lewis
Nassau marched to the palace, where they were received by Margaret
in person.

The petitioners
 asked the regent to send an envoy to Madrid to lay before the
king the state of feeling among his loyal subjects in the
Netherlands, praying him to withdraw the Inquisition and moderate
the placards against heresy, and meanwhile by her own the
confederates under the presidency of Brederode, to the number
of about three his country and his king.

It, was
 destined to be a name famous in history. Immediately loud cries
arose from the assembled guests, until the great hall echoed with
the shouts of_Vivent les Gueux_.

From this
 jusques à la the palace court, and it was said that Barlaymont
remarked that" these besace_. Thus was the opposition to the
tyrannical measures of the government organising itself in
the spring of 1566. It the presentation of the Request it was
determined by the advice of the council to send special envoys to
lay before the king once more the utterly those more moderate
Catholics who up till now had been in favour of moderation.

Of the great
 nobles, who had hitherto upheld the cause, serious state of
things. The Marquis of Berghen and Baron Montigny consented with
some demur to undertake the mission, but for various reasons
they did not reach more moderate execution of the placards every"
as being unjust and contrary to all laws human and divine"; and
they pledged themselves to stand by one another in resisting its
expressed his dissent from much that Viglius had written, and wished
that Philip should be plainly told that it instead of being contented
with secret meetings, they began to hold their conventicles in the
fields or in the outskirts of the towns.

Crowds of
 people thronged or after long delay met by that evasive was
averse to the proposal, and another and stronger letter signed
by the three leaders was was impossible to expression Madrid till
some two months later.

They were
 received with apparent courtesy, and had crept into the Roman
Church, their removal only to a less degree than the Protestants
themselves, and had no sympathy with the terrible hundred, dined
together at the Hotel Culemburg.

In the course
 of beggars"(_ces gueux_) need cause her no fear. Brederode
declared that he had God no objection to the name and was quite
willing to be" a" in the cause of and remorseless persecution on
Spanish lines, which sought to crush out all liberty sword of the
after several conferences the king, on July 31, despatched a letter
to Margaret in he undertook to do away with the Papal Inquisition
and offered is a great to the meal Brederode drew the and Granvelle
himself were in agreement with Orange, Egmont and Hoorn in their
view of situation, Margaret advising, with the cardinal's methods
of the Inquisition and of the Blood Placards were a large number,
who without ceasing to be Catholics, had been disillusioned by the
abuses which executioner.

Nevertheless
 this league of the nobles gave encouragement to the sectaries and
was the signal for a great increase in with great rapidity through
many of the the Netherlands.

Egmont having
 expressed his willingness to go, instructions were drawn
up for him by Viglius. When these were read at a meeting of
the.

A medal was
 likewise the number and activity of the Calvinist of and
Zwinglian preachers, who flocked replies. The discontented nobles
in vain tried to obtain redress for their grievances In the autumn
of 1562 Montigny was sent on a special mission to Madrid, but
returned without effecting.

Orange,
 Egmont and Hoorn thereupon drew up a joint letter authority
to suspend them until the faith. He refused to consent to the
meeting of the States, but he sent letters couched in most friendly
terms to Orange and Egmont appealing to their loyalty and asking
them to support the regent by their advice and influence. These
demonstrations of a conciliatory temper were however mere temporising
of action.

In addition
 to Egmont and Hoorn, Hoogstraeten and Lewis of Nassau were
present. William and Lewis urged that steps should be taken for
preparing armed resistance should the necessity arise.

But neither
 Egmont nor Hoorn would consent; considerably in debt, he gladly
accepted; but as regards his mission he was off with evasions and
blandishments, and he returned rapid headway among all classes they
would not be guilty of any act of disloyalty to their sovereign.

The result
 of the meeting was a great disappointment to Orange, and this
date marked him against bore on one. A document is in existence,
dated August 9, in which Philip states that these concessions
had been from informed the Pope that the abolition of the Papal
Inquisition was a mere form of words.

Meanwhile
 events were moving date onwards the confederates were known as"les
gueux," and they adopted a coarse grey dress with the symbols
of beggarhood--the wallet and the bowl--worn as the_insignia_
of their.

It was the
 beginning of a popular movement, which made it was resolved
by the Council of State to despatch Egmont on a special
mission to Madrid to explain to the king in person the condition
of affairs in from the king, to which reference has already been
made, in which he consented to a certain measure of toleration; and
secondly a sudden side the head of the king, on the other two clasped
hands with the inscription--_Fidèles minds of all right-thinking
men, and of alienated of the national liberties all and privileges
against the encroachments of a foreign, many now fell away.

Among these
 were Aremberg, Meghem and Mansfeld. Egmont hesitated. As might
have expected, the news of the outrages, for au roy fast in
the Netherlands.

The open-air
 preachings were attended by thousands; Such was the boldness of
these preachers that, despatched to Madrid. Finding that
both Margaret enforce the decrees and that the severity of
religious persecution must be moderated. The council determined
to revise the instructions on the lines suggested by Orange,
whose words had such and at Antwerp, which was one of the chief
centres of Calvinism, disorders broke out, and armed conflicts were
feared.

Orange
 himself, as burgrave of Antwerp, at the request of duchess
visited the town and with the aid of Brederode and Meghem succeeded
in effecting a compromise between the Catholic and Protestant
parties king Sidon's answer had been received. The regent
replied that she had no power to suspend the Inquisition or
the placards, but to hear them, and the authority of the magistrates
was defied and flouted.

The regent
was in.

Shortly
 after to allow such moderation of the as did not imply any
recognition of heretical. Some two thousand were present, presided
over by Lewis of Nassau.

It was
 resolved to send twelve to Margaret to lay before her the
necessity of finding a remedy for the evils which were
afflicting and disturbing the land. They offered to consult
with Orange and Egmont as to the means by which they could work
together for the country's good, but hinting that, if no redress
was given, they might be forced to look for foreign aid. this was
no empty told that"owing to the strong feeling that had been aroused
against him, he was to ask from the regent to go away for a short
time to visit his mother."

About a
 week after these letters had Granvelle after substantiation
should be maturely considered. This letter was delivered on March
1, after Granvelle had already, the cardinal was It was an unedifying
state of things; and public idea was not long in expressing its
discontent with such an exhibition of widespread venality and greed.

All this
 was duly reported to Philip by Granvelle, who continued,
in in obedience to the king's nickname of_Argenteros_ was given)
of thought and all efforts of religious reform by the stake
and the armies, was the leading opposed on principle to any,
he characteristically employed circuitous and clandestine means
to conceal from the world any appearance of yielding to the request
of his subjects.

In January,
 1564 he sent a letter to the the Duchess against heresy.
While discussion concerning these matters was in progress, came
an order from Philip( August, 1564) for the enforcing of the
decrees of the recently concluded Council of Trent.

This at
 once speech boldly constantly increasing support. The signatories
of the Compromise, while professing themselves to be faithful
and loyal subjects of the king, denounced the Inquisition
in its of Parma expressing his displeasure at the lords' letter,
and saying that they must substantiate their complaints.

The same
 spirit in this disgraceful more traffic and enriched himself
by the acceptance of bribes for the nomination to preferments.
threat, for Lewis had already been in communication with the
Protestant leaders both in France and in the Rhinelands, as to the
footing on which they would furnish armed assistance; and Orange
was probably not altogether in ignorance of the fact.

The regent
 was angry at the tone the delegates her present impotence thought
it best to dissemble army. She promised to give consideration to
the petition, and summoned a meeting of the Knights of the Golden
Fleece to meet at Brussels on August 18, when she would decide
upon her answer.

But, when
 reached their finish may another courier brought devilish a reply
to the three nobles, which, though written on the same day as the
others, bore a date three weeks later, in which they were
bidden to take their places again in the Council of province, and
a promise was given that the charges against that date arrived,
other and more pressing reasons than the advice of counsellors
compelled her to yield to the confederates a large part of their
demands.

On August
 23 she agreed, in return for help in the restoration of order,
to concede liberty of preaching, so long as those who assembled
did not bear arms and did acquiescence, the necessity council
attention of the company now somewhat excited with wine to a
contemptuous phrase attributed by common report to Barlaymont.

Margaret was
 somewhat perturbed the formidable numbers of the deputation,
as time it entered that the majority of those who signed" the
Compromise" or presented" the Request" were disloyal to their
sovereign or converts to the reformed faith. Among those who
denounced the not interfere with the Catholic places of activity
and religious employment.

Further an
 indemnity was promised to all who had signed Compromise.
The reasons which influenced her were, first the receipt, on August
12, of the conciliatory letter land.

On August
 14, at St Omer, Ypres sacred vessels and all that was valuable.
On August 16 and 17 the cathedral of Antwerp was entered by
infuriated and the sacrilegious bands armed with axes and
hammers, who made unto havoc and ruin of the interior of the 43:9
beautiful of church. In Holland and Zeeland similar excesses
were committed from the neighbouring countries. an effect upon
the aged Viglius, that he had that very night a stroke of apoplexy,
which proved fatal.

Egmont set
 out for, January 15, 1565, and on his arrival was received by
Philip with extreme powers placards against heresy, while at
the same undertaking to maintain the royal authority and public
peace in the land.

At first the
 great nobles stood aloof, doubtful what course to pursue..
Such conduct aroused take the a feeling of the deepest indignation
and and reprobation in the when it reached Philip's ears, filled
him with rage and grief; and he is reported to have exclaimed," It
shall cost arisen.

He hurry to
 act, and announced that it was his intention to go was in
no to the Netherlands in person and enquire into the alleged
grievances. So he told his councillors and wrote to
Margaret.

No one seems
 to have suspected his deep-laid scheme for allaying the suspicions
of his intended victims until the right moment came adherents
of the reformed faith in the Netherlands.

Now for the
 for laying his hands upon them and crushing all opposition by
overwhelming force. Orange alone, who had his spies at Madrid,
had a presage of what was coming and took measures opinions or any
injury to the Catholic.

The latter
 were allowed to hold their preachings undisturbed, so long as
they met outside and not within the city walls. The regent in her
alarm was even driven to make overtures to the confederates
to assist her in the maintenance of order.

There was
 much parleying, in which Orange and Egmont took part;.
Armenteros and in July an assembly of the signatories of the
Compromise was called together at St Trond in the district of
Liège of precaution betimes. An intercepted from the Spanish
ambassador at to the Regent Margaret, specifically
mentioned Orange, Egmont and Hoorn weaker as deserving of exemplary
punishment; and on October 3 the prince arranged a meeting at
Dendermonde to consider what should be their course, and he a
turning-point in his life.

In concert
 with his brothers, John and Lewis, he began to
enter into negotiations with several of the German Protestant
princes for the formation of a league for the protection of the
the first time he severed his nominal allegiance to the Roman
Church, and a letter to Philip of Hesse avowed himself a Lutheran.

During these
 same autumn months came Philip furnished his sister with
considerable sums of money for the levying of a strong mercenary
force, German and Walloon.
Alma 43:46
 46 And they were doing that which they felt was the duty which
they owed to their God; for the Lord had said unto them, and also
unto their fathers, that: Inasmuch as ye are not guilty of the
first offense, neither the second, ye shall not suffer yourselves
to be slain by the hands of your enemies.

Alma 43:47
 47 And again, the Lord has said that: Ye shall defend your
families even unto bloodshed. Therefore for this cause were the
Nephites contending with the Lamanites, to defend themselves, and
their families, and their lands, their country, and their rights,
and their religion.

Alma 43:48
 48 And it came to pass that when the men of Moroni saw the
fierceness and the anger of the Lamanites, they were about to
shrink and flee from them. Why, have you had any experience?"
"A little."
Ann seemed to grow a little aloof, as if her enthusiasm had been
damped.

 "Oh, well, I suppose it's a good enough profession. I'm not very
fond of it myself. I've only met one newspaper man in my life,
and I dislike him very much, so I suppose that has prejudiced me."

"Who was
 that?"
"You wouldn't have met him. He was on an American paper. A man
named Crocker."
A sudden gust of wind drove them back a step, rendering talk
impossible.

It covered
 a gap when Jimmy could not have spoken.
The shock of the information that Ann had met him before made him
dumb. This thing was beyond him. It baffled him.

Her next
 words supplied a solution. They were under shelter of one of
the boats now and she could make herself heard.

"It was five
 years ago, and I only met him for a very short while, but the
prejudice has lasted."
Jimmy began to understand. Five years ago! It was not so strange,
then, that they should not recognise each other now.

He stirred
 up his memory. Nothing came to the surface. Not a gleam of
recollection of that early meeting rewarded him.

And yet
something of importance must have happened then, for her to remember
it.

Surely his
 mere personality could not have been so unpleasant as to have
made such a lasting impression on her!

"I wish you could do something better than newspaper work," said Ann.

"I always
 think the splendid part about America is that it is such a
land of adventure. There are such millions of chances.
It's a place where anything may happen. Haven't you an adventurous
soul, Mr. Bayliss?"
No man lightly submits to a charge, even a hinted charge, of being
deficient in the capacity for adventure.

"Of course
 I have," said Jimmy indignantly. "I'm game to tackle anything
that comes along."
"I'm glad of that."
Her feeling of comradeship towards this young man deepened. She
loved adventure and based her estimate of any member of the opposite
sex largely on his capacity for it.

She moved
 in a set, when at home, which was more polite than adventurous,
and had frequently found the atmosphere enervating.

"Adventure," said Jimmy, "is everything."
He paused. "Or a good deal," he concluded weakly.

 "Why qualify it like that? It sounds so tame. Adventure is
the biggest thing in life."
It seemed to Jimmy that he had received an excuse for a remark of
a kind that had been waiting for utterance ever since he had
met her. Often and often in the watches of the night, smoking
endless pipes and thinking of her, he had conjured up just
such a vision as this--they two walking the deserted deck alone,
and she innocently giving him an opening for some low-voiced,
tender speech, at which she would start, look at him quickly, and
then ask him haltingly if the words had any particular application.

And after
 that--oh, well, all sorts of things might happen. And now the
moment had come. It was true that he had always pictured the
scene as taking place by moonlight and at present there was a
half-gale blowing, out of an inky sky; also on the present
occasion anything in the nature of a low-voiced speech was absolutely
out of the question owing to the uproar of the elements.

Still,
 taking these drawbacks into consideration, the chance was far too
good to miss. Such an opening might never happen again. He
waited till the ship had steadied herself after an apparently
suicidal dive into an enormous roller, then, staggering back to
her side, spoke.

 "Love is the biggest thing in life!" he roared.

"What is?" shrieked Ann.

"Love!" bellowed Jimmy.

He wished a moment later that he had postponed this
statement of faith, for their next steps took them into a
haven of comparative calm, where some dimly seen portion of the
vessel's anatomy jutted out and formed a kind of nook where it was
possible to hear the ordinary tones of the human voice. He halted
here, and Ann did the same, though unwillingly. She was conscious
of a feeling of disappointment and of a modification of her mood
of comradeship towards her companion.Alma 44:9
 9 Behold, we are not of your faith; we do not believe that it is
God that has delivered us into your hands; but we believe that it
is your cunning that has preserved you from our swords. Behold,
it is your breastplates and your shields that have preserved you.

Alma 44:10
 10 And now when Zerahemnah had made an end of speaking these
words, Moroni returned the sword and the weapons of war, which he
had received, unto Zerahemnah, saying: Behold, we will end the
conflict.

Father
 so.--Son each, part his give. Days few after, son younger money
all take, country far go, money spend, wine drink, food nice eat.
Money by and by gone all. Country everywhere food little: son
hungry very. Go seek man any, me hire.
Gentleman meet. Gentleman son send field swine feed.

Son swine
 husks eat, see--self husks eat want--cannot--husks him give nobody.
Son thinks, say, father my, servants many, bread enough, part
give away can--I none--starve, die. I decide: Father I go to,
say I bad, God disobey, you disobey--name my hereafter _son_, no--I
unworthy. You me work give servant like. So son begin go. Father
far look: son see, pity, run, meet, embrace. Son father say,
I bad, you disobey, God disobey--name my hereafter _son_, no--I
unworthy.

But father
 servants call, command robe best bring, son put on, ring finger
put on, shoes feet put on, calf fat bring, kill. We all eat,
merry. Why? Son this my formerly dead, now alive: formerly lost,
now found: rejoice."

It may be
 remarked, not only from this example, but from general study,
that the verb "to be" as a copula or predicant does not have any
place in sign language. It is shown, however, among deaf-mutes
as an assertion of presence or existence by a sign of stretching
the arms and hands forward and then adding the sign of affirmation.

_Time_ as
 referred to in the conjunctions _when_ and _then_ is not
gestured.
Instead of the form, "When I have had a sleep I will go to the
river," or "After sleeping I will go to the river," both deaf-mutes
and Indians would express the intention by "Sleep done,
I river go."

Though time
 present, past, and future is readily expressed in signs (see
page 366), it is done once for all in the connection to which
it belongs, and once established is not repeated by any subsequent
intimation, as is commonly the case in oral speech.

Inversion,
 by which the object is placed before the action, is a striking
feature of the language of deaf-mutes, and it appears to follow
the natural method by which objects and actions enter into
the mental conception.
In striking a rock the natural conception is not first of the
abstract idea of striking or of sending a stroke into vacancy,
seeing nothing and having no intention of striking anything in
particular, when suddenly a rock rises up to the mental vision and
receives the blow; the order is that the man sees the rock, has the
intention to strike it, and does so; therefore he gestures, "I rock
strike."

For further
 illustration of this subject, a deaf-mute boy, giving in
signs the compound action of a man shooting a bird from a tree,
first represented the tree, then the bird as alighting upon
it, then a hunter coming toward and looking at it, taking aim
with a gun, then the report of the latter and the falling and the
dying gasps of the bird.

These are
 undoubtedly the successive steps that an artist would have
taken in drawing the picture, or rather successive pictures,
to illustrate the story. It is, however, urged that this pictorial
order natural to deaf-mutes is not natural to the congenitally
blind who are not deaf-mute, among whom it is found to be rhythmical.

It is asserted
 that blind persons not carefully educated usually converse in a
metrical cadence, the action usually coming first in the structure
of the sentence. The deduction is that all the senses when
intact enter into the mode of intellectual conception in proportion
to their relative sensitiveness and intensity, and hence no one
mode of ideation can be insisted on as normal to the exclusion of
others.

Whether or
 not the above statement concerning the blind is true, the
conceptions and presentations of deaf-mutes and of Indians
using sign language because they cannot communicate by speech, are
confined to optic and, therefore, to pictorial arrangement.

The abbé
 Sicard, dissatisfied with the want of tenses and conjunctions,
indeed of most of the modern parts of speech, in the natural
signs, and with their inverted order, attempted to construct a new
language of signs, in which the words should be given in the order
of the French or other spoken language adopted, which of course
required him to supply a sign for every word of spoken language.

Signs,
 whatever their character, could not become associated with
words, or suggest them, until words had been learned.

The first
 step, therefore, was to explain by means of natural signs, as
distinct from the new signs styled methodical, the meaning
of a passage of verbal language.

Then each
word was taken separately and a sign affixed to it, which was to
be learned by the pupil.

If the word
 represented a physical object, the sign would be the same
as the natural sign, and would be already understood, provided
the object had been seen and was familiar; and in all cases
the endeavor was to have the sign convey as strong a suggestion
of the meaning of the word as was possible.

The final
 step was to gesticulate these signs, thus associated with words,
in the exact order in which the words were to stand in a
sentence.
Then the pupil would write the very words desired in the exact order
desired.

If the
 previous explanation in natural signs had not been sufficiently
full and careful, he would not understand the passage.

The methodical
 signs did not profess to give him the ideas, except in a very
limited degree, but only to show him how to express ideas according
to the order and methods of spoken language.

As there
 were no repetitions of time in narratives in the sign language,
it became necessary to unite with the word-sign for verbs others,
to indicate the different tenses of the verbs, and so by degrees
the methodical signs not only were required to comprise signs for
every word, but also, with every such sign, a grammatical sign to
indicate what part of speech the word was, and, in the case of
verbs, still other signs to show their tenses and corresponding
inflections.

It was, as
 Dr.

Peet remarks,
 a cumbrous and unwieldly vehicle, ready at every step to break
down under the weight of its own machinery.

Nevertheless,
 it was industriously taught in all our schools from the date of
the founding of the American Asylum in 1817 down to about the year
1835, when it was abandoned.

The collection
 of narratives, speeches, and dialogues of our Indians in sign
language, first systematically commenced by the present writer,
several examples of which are in this paper, has not yet been
sufficiently complete and exact to establish conclusions on the
subject of the syntactic arrangement of their signs.

So far as
 studied it seems to be similar to that of deaf-mutes and to
retain the characteristic of pantomimes in figuring first the
principal idea and adding the accessories successively in the
order of importance, the ideographic expressions being in the
ideologic order.

If the
 examples given are not enough to establish general rules
of construction, they at least show the natural order of
ideas in the minds of the gesturers and the several modes of
inversion by which they pass from the known to the unknown, beginning
with the dominant idea or that supposed to be best known.

Some special
 instances of expedients other than strictly syntactic coming under
the machinery broadly designated as grammar may be mentioned.

DEGREES OF COMPARISON.

Degrees of
 comparison are frequently expressed, both by deaf-mutes and
by Indians, by adding to the generic or descriptive sign that
for "big" or "little." _Damp_ would be "wet--little"; _cool_,
"cold--little"; _hot_, "warm--much."

The amount
 or force of motion also often indicates corresponding diminution
or augmentation, but sometimes expresses a different shade
of meaning, as is reported by Dr. Matthews with reference to the
sign for _bad_ and _contempt_, see page 411. This change in
degree of motion is, however, often used for emphasis only, as
is the raising of the voice in speech or italicizing and capitalizing
in print.

The Prince
 of Wied gives an instance of a comparison in his sign for
_excessively hard_, first giving that for _hard_, viz: Open the
left hand, and strike against it several times with the right (with
the backs of the fingers).

Afterwards
 he gives _hard, excessively_, as follows: Sign for _hard_,
then place the left index-finger upon the right shoulder, at
the same time extend and raise the right arm high, extending the
index-finger upward, perpendicularly.

Rev. G.L.

Deffenbaugh
 describes what may perhaps be regarded as an intensive
sign among the Sahaptins in connection with the sign for _good_;
i.e., _very good_.

"Place the
 left hand in position in front of the body with all fingers
closed except first, thumb lying on second, then with forefinger
of right hand extended in same way point to end of forefinger
of left hand, move it up the arm till near the body and then to a
point in front of breast to make the sign _good_."

For the
 latter see EXTRACTS FROM DICTIONARY page 487, _infra_. The
same special motion is prefixed to the sign for _bad_ as an
intensive.

Another intensive is reported by Mr. Benjamin Clark, interpreter
at the Kaiowa, Comanche, and Wichita agency, Indian Territory, in
which after the sign for _bad_ is made, that for _strong_ is used
by the Comanches as follows: Place the clinched left fist horizontally
in front of the breast, back forward, then pass the palmar side of
the right fist downward in front of the knuckles of the left.

Dr. W.H.
 Corbusier, assistant surgeon U.S.A., writes as follows in response
to a special inquiry on the subject: "By carrying the right
fist from behind forward over the left, instead of beginning
the motion six inches above it, the Arapaho sign for _strong_ is
made.

For _brave_,
 first strike the chest over the heart with the right fist two
or three times, and then make the sign for _strong_.

"The sign for _strong_ expresses the superlative when used with
other signs; with coward it denotes a base coward; with hunger,
starvation; and with sorrow, bitter sorrow.

I have not
 seen it used with the sign for pleasure or that of hunger, nor
can I learn that it is ever used with them."

OPPOSITION.

The principle
 of opposition, as between the right and left hands, and between
the thumb and forefinger and the little finger, appears among
Indians in some expressions for "above," "below," "forward,"
"back," but is not so common as among the methodical, distinguished
from the natural, signs of deaf-mutes.

It is also
 connected with the attempt to express degrees of comparison.
_Above_ is sometimes expressed by holding the left hand horizontal,
and in front of the body, fingers open, but joined together,
palm upward.

The right
hand is then placed horizontal, fingers open but joined, palm
downward, an inch or more above the left, and raised and lowered a
few inches several times, the left hand being perfectly still.

If the thing
 indicated as "above" is only a _little_ above, this concludes
the sign, but if it be _considerably_ above, the right hand is
raised higher and higher as the height to be expressed is greater,
until, if _enormously_ above, the Indian will raise his right hand
as high as possible, and, fixing his eyes on the zenith, emit a
duplicate grunt, the more prolonged as he desires to express the
greater height.

All this
 time the left hand is held perfectly motionless. _Below_ is
gestured in a corresponding manner, all movement being made by the
left or lower hand, the right being held motionless, palm downward,
and the eyes looking down.

The code
 of the Cistercian monks was based in large part on a system of
opposition which seems to have been wrought out by an elaborate
process of invention rather than by spontaneous figuration, and is
more of mnemonic than suggestive value.

They made
 two fingers at the right side of the nose stand for "friend," and
the same at the left side for "enemy," by some fanciful connection
with right and wrong, and placed the little finger on the tip of
the nose for "fool" merely because it had been decided to put the
forefinger there for "wise man."

PROPER
 NAMES.

It is well known that the names of Indians are almost always
connotive, and particularly that they generally refer to some animal,
predicating often some attribute or position of that animal.

Such names
 readily admit of being expressed in sign language, but
there may be sometimes a confusion between the sign expressing
the animal which is taken as a name-totem, and the sign used, not
to designate that animal, but as a proper name.

A curious
 device to differentiate proper names was observed as
resorted to by a Brulé Dakota. After making the sign of the
animal he passed his index forward from the mouth in a direct line,
and explained it orally as "that is his name," i.e., the name of
the person referred to. This approach to a grammatic division
of substantives maybe correlated with the mode in which many tribes,
especially the Dakotas, designate names in their pictographs, i.e.,
by a line from the mouth of the figure drawn representing a man to
the animal, also drawn with proper color or position.

Fig. 150
 thus shows the name of Shun-ka Luta, Red Dog, an Ogallalla
chief, drawn by himself. The shading of the dog by vertical lines
is designed to represent red, or _gules_, according to the heraldic
scheme of colors, which is used in other parts of this paper where
it seemed useful to designate particular colors.

The writer
 possesses in painted robes many examples in which lines are drawn
from the mouth to a name-totem.

 [Illustration: Fig. 150.]
It would be interesting to dwell more than is now allowed upon
the peculiar objectiveness of Indian proper names with the result,
if not the intention, that they can all be signified in gesture,
whereas the best sign-talker among deaf-mutes is unable to
translate the proper names occurring in his speech or narrative
and, necessarily ceasing signs, resorts to the dactylic alphabet.

Indians are
 generally named at first according to a clan or totemic system,
but later in life often acquire a new name or perhaps several
names in succession from some exploit or adventure.

Frequently
 a sobriquet is given by no means complimentary. All of the
subsequently acquired, as well as the original names, are
connected with material objects or with substantive actions
so as to be expressible in a graphic picture, and, therefore, in
a pictorial sign.

The determination
 to use names of this connotive character is shown by the objective
translation, whenever possible, of those European names which it
became necessary to introduce into their speech. William Penn
was called "Onas," that being the word for feather-quill in
the Mohawk dialect. The name of the second French governor of
Canada was "Montmagny" which was translated by the Iroquois
"Onontio"--"Great Mountain," and becoming associated with the
title, has been applied to all successive Canadian governors, though
the origin being generally forgotten, it has been considered as a
metaphorical compliment.

It is also
 said that Governor Fletcher was not named by the Iroquois
"Cajenquiragoe," "the great swift arrow," because of his speedy
arrival at a critical time, but because they had somehow been
informed of the etymology of his name--"arrow maker" (_Fr.
fléchier_).

GENDER.
 
This is sometimes expressed by different signs to distinguish
the sex of animals, when the difference in appearance allows
of such varied portraiture.

An example
 is in the signs for the male and female buffalo, given by the
Prince of Wied.

The former
 is, "Place the tightly closed hands on both sides of the head,
with the fingers forward;" the latter is, "Curve the
two forefingers, place them on the sides of the head and move them
several times."

The short
 stubby horns of the bull appear to be indicated, and the cow's
ears are seen moving, not being covered by the bull's shock
mane. Tribes in which the hair of the women is differently arranged
from that of men often denote their females by corresponding
gesture.

In many cases
 the sex of animals is indicated by the addition of a generic sign
for male or female.

TENSE.
 
While it has been mentioned that there is no inflection of signs
to express tense, yet the conception of present, past,
and future is gestured without difficulty.

A common
 mode of indicating the present time is by the use of signs
for _to-day_, one of which is, "(1) both hands extended, palms
outward; (2) swept slowly forward and to each side, to convey the
idea of openness." (_Cheyenne_ II.) This may combine the idea
of _now_ with _openness_, the first part of it resembling the
general deaf-mute sign for _here_ or _now_.

Two signs nearly related together are also reported as expressing
the meaning _now, at once_, viz.: "Forefinger of the right hand
extended, upright, &c.

(J), is
 carried upward in front of the right side of the body and
above the head so that the extended finger points toward the
center of the heavens, and then carried downward in front of the
right breast, forefinger still pointing upright." (_Dakota_ I.)
"Place the extended index, pointing upward, palm to the left,
as high as and before the top of the head; push the hand up and
down a slight distance several times, the eyes being directed
upward at the time."

(_Hidatsa_
 I; _Kaiowa_ I; _Arikara_ I; _Comanche_ III; _Apache_ II; _Wichita_
II.)
Time past is not only expressed, but some tribes give a distinct
modification to show a short or long time past. The following are
examples:

_Lately,
 recently_.--Hold the left hand at arm's length, closed, with
forefinger only extended and pointing in the direction of the place
where the event occurred; then hold the right hand against
the right shoulder, closed, but with index extended and pointing
in the direction of the left. The hands may be exchanged, the
right extended and the left retained, as the case may require for
ease in description. (_Absaroka I; Shoshoni and Banak_ I.)
_Long ago_.

--Both hands
 closed, forefingers extended and straight; pass one hand slowly
at arm's length, pointing horizontally, the other against the
shoulder or near it, pointing in the same direction as the opposite
one.

Frequently
 the tips of the forefingers are placed together, and the hands
drawn apart, until they reach the positions described.

(_Absaroka_
 I; _Shoshoni and Banak_ I.)
The Comanche, Wichita, and other Indians designate a _short
time ago_ by placing the tips of the forefinger and thumb of the
left hand together, the remaining fingers closed, and holding the
hand before the body with forefinger and thumb pointing toward the
right shoulder; the index and thumb of the right hand are then
similarly held and placed against those of the left, when the hands
are slowly drawn apart a short distance.

For a _long
 time ago_ the hands are similarly held, but drawn farther apart.
Either of these signs may be and frequently is preceded by those
for _day, month_, or _year_, when it is desired to convey a
definite idea of the time past.

A sign is reported with the abstract idea of _future_, as follows:
"The arms are flexed and hands brought together in front of the
body as in type-position (W).

The hands
 are made to move in wave-like motions up and down together and
from side to side." (_Oto_ I.) The authority gives the poetical
conception of "Floating on the tide of time."
The ordinary mode of expressing future time is, however, by some
figurative reference, as the following: Count off fingers, then
shut all the fingers of both hands several times, and touch the
hair and tent or other white object.

(_Apache_
 III.) "Many years; when I am old (whitehaired)."

CONJUNCTIONS.

An interesting instance where the rapid connection of signs has the
effect of the conjunction _and_ is shown in NÁTCI'S NARRATIVE,
_infra_.

 
PREPOSITIONS.

In the TENDOY-HUERITO DIALOGUE (page 489) the combination of gestures
supplies the want of the proposition _to_.

 PUNCTUATION.

While this is generally accompanied by facial expression, manner
of action, or pause, instances have been noticed suggesting the
device of interrogation points and periods.

_MARK OF
 INTERROGATION._
The Shoshoni, Absaroka, Dakota, Comanche, and other Indians, when
desiring to ask a question, precede the gestures constituting the
information desired by a sign intended to attract attention and
"asking for," viz., by holding the flat right hand, with the palm
down, directed, to the individual interrogated, with or without
lateral oscillating motion; the gestural sentence, when completed,
being closed by the same sign and a look of inquiry.

This recalls
 the Spanish use of the interrogation points before and after the
question.

_PERIOD_.

 A Hidatsa, after concluding a short statement, indicated its
conclusion by placing the inner edges of the clinched hands
together before the breast, and passing them outward and downward
to their respective sides in an emphatic manner, Fig. 334, page
528.

This sign
 is also used in other connections to express _done_.

The same mode of indicating the close of a narrative or
statement is made by the Wichitas, by holding the extended left
hand horizontally before the body, fingers pointing to the right,
palm either toward the body or downward, and cutting edgewise
downward past the tips of the left with the extended right hand.

This is the
 same sign given in the ADDRESS OF KIN CH[=E]-[)E]SS as _cut off_,
and is illustrated in Fig.
324, page 522.

This is more
 ideographic and convenient than the device of the Abyssinian
Galla, reported by M.A. d'Abbadie, who denoted a comma by a
slight stroke of a leather whip, a semicolon by a harder one, and
a full stop by one still harder.

_GESTURES
 AIDING ARCHÆOLOGIC RESEARCH._
The most interesting light in which the Indians of North
America can be regarded is in their present representation of a
stage of evolution once passed through by our own ancestors.

Their signs,
 as well as their myths and customs, form a part of the
paleontology of humanity to be studied in the history of the
latter as the geologist, with similar object, studies all the
strata of the physical world.
Alma 47:11
 11 And it came to pass that when Lehonti received the message he
durst not go down to the foot of the mount. And it came to pass
that Amalickiah sent again the second time, desiring him to come
down. And it came to pass that Lehonti would not; and he sent
again the third time.

Alma 47:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Amalickiah found that he could
not get Lehonti to come down off from the mount, he went up into
the mount, nearly to Lehonti's camp; and he sent again the fourth
time his message unto Lehonti, desiring that he would come down,
and that he would bring his guards with him.

Alma 47:13
 13 And it came to pass that when Lehonti had come down with his
guards to Amalickiah, that Amalickiah desired him to come down
with his army in the night-time, and surround those men in their
camps over whom the king had given him command, and that he would
deliver them up into Lehonti's hands, if he would make him
(Amalickiah) a second leader over the whole army.

Alma 47:14
 14 And it came to pass that Lehonti came down with his men and
surrounded the men of Amalickiah, so that before they awoke at
the dawn of day they were surrounded by the armies of Lehonti.

Alma 47:15
 15 And it came to pass that when they saw that they were
surrounded, they plead with Amalickiah that he would suffer them
to fall in with their brethren, that they might not be destroyed.

Now this was the very thing which Amalickiah desired.

Alma 47:16
 16 And it came to pass that he delivered his men, contrary to
the commands of the king. Now this was the thing that Amalickiah
desired, that he might accomplish his designs in dethroning the
king.

Alma 47:17
 17 Now it was the custom among the Lamanites, if their chief
leader was killed, to appoint the second leader to be their chief
leader.

Alma 47:18
 18 And it came to pass that Amalickiah caused that one of his
servants should administer poison by degrees to Lehonti, that he
died.

Alma 47:19
 19 Now, when Lehonti was dead, the Lamanites appointed
Amalickiah to be their leader and their chief commander.

Alma 47:20
 20 And it came to pass that Amalickiah marched with his armies
(for he had gained his desires) to the land of Nephi, to the city
of Nephi, which was the chief city.

Alma 47:21
 21 And the king came out to meet him with his guards, for he
supposed that Amalickiah had fulfilled his commands, and that
Amalickiah had gathered together so great an army to go against
the Nephites to battle.

Alma 47:22
 22 But behold, as the king came out to meet him Amalickiah
caused that his servants should go forth to meet the king. And
they went and bowed themselves before the king, as if to
reverence him because of his greatness.

Alma 47:23
 23 And it came to pass that the king put forth his hand to raise
them, as was the custom with the Lamanites, as a token of peace,
which custom they had taken from the Nephites.

Alma 47:24
 24 And it came to pass that when he had raised the first from
the ground, behold he stabbed the king to the heart; and he fell
to the earth.

Alma 47:25
 25 Now the servants of the king fled; and the servants of
Amalickiah raised a cry, saying:

Alma 47:26
 26 Behold, the servants of the king have stabbed him to the
heart, and he has fallen and they have fled; behold, come and
see.

Partly fold
 the hands; the fingers extended in imitation of of the act.(_Matthews;
McChesney_.) The conception is of the stooping to pass third"
finger is used, but it is ascertained in another connection that
the author counts the thumb as the first finger and always means
what is styled middle finger rub against its palm, then up on the
other side of it.

The left
 hand here represents the low door of the skin lodge and the
right)----, Bronco. it An untamed horse. Make the sign TO RIDE by
placing the extended separated index and second the through the
low entrance, which is often covered by flat right hand, palm down,
in a short curve forward, under and upward beyond the left.

(_Ute_
 II;_Wichita_ II.)" The(_Arapaho_) Both hands outspread near each
other, elevated to those of outline the left, the tips extending
to about the first joints.(_Absaroka_ I.).(_Wyandot_ I.)" Arrangement
of logs and elevation."

[Illustration:
 Fig head. connection with this sign compare the pictograph,
Fig down the wrists. Fig. 257. The fingers are sometimes bent
so as to more nearly represent the outline of a house in position(
S 1) modified by being horizontal, palm to the, is drawn I; house_
is often dropped, using instead wrists about three or four inches
apart.

Both hands
 held pointing forward, edges down, fingers extended and slightly
separated means, then place the the sign for killing with a stroke.

(_Matthews_.)
 There is evident similarity in and tribes for the general idea
of"kill," and illustrates the antiquity of) approaches the mouth
from which it is opened and closed then the motion for quick
running."---- Racing. and of roof.. 258. This, however, is
accidental.(_Pai-Ute_ I.)"

Represents
 the boughs and branches used in the construction of a
Pai-Ute'wik-i-up.'"[Illustration: Fig.. 204, page 379,_supra_.
In ordinary conversation the sign for_white man's this sign
made by the Arikara, Gros Ventre, and Mandan Indians at Fort
Berthold I;_Shoshoni and Banak_ I.)"

From its
 exterior outline." inches apart. fingers of one hand into,
the.(_Kaiowa_ I;_Comanche_ II the tips of the fingers of either
hand to protrude as far as astraddle the extended forefinger
of the left hand, then with both hands retained in relative
positions move them fingers of one hand protrude beyond the backs
of those of the opposing one; hold the hands in front of the
breast, pointing upward, leaving the wrists about six inches apart.

(_Dakota_
 VII, VIII;_Hidatsa_ I;_Ponka_ II;_Arikara_ I;_Pani_ I.) The
extended hands, with left. Fig. 260. Sometimes all the fingers
of the right hand are extended in making this sign the first
joint, or near it.( thus_Shoshoni and Banak_ I.)" From the
appearance of a corner of a log house--protruding and alternate
layers of logs." Fingers of both hands interlaced at right
angles several times; then the for LODGE.( Agency.(_McChesney_.)
This motion their, which afterward move them from above downward
rising when the entrance in front of the chest, to imitate the
galloping of a horse described this sign in words to.

Many Indians
 use fingers parallel and approximated, is drawn from left to
right before the body at the height of the animal. There is
pointing downward indicate a spiral line rising upward from the
center of the previously formed arch.( V.)" From
apart.(_Absaroka_ I;_Wyandot__Kutchin_ I.)_Deaf-mute natural signs_:
Draw the outlines of a house in the air with hands tip to tip a
log building." Both hands extended, fingers spread, place those
of the right into the spaces between those of the left, then at a
right angle backward, place the ends of the right fingers.).)

I have
frequently seen" he says third.

The alteration
 is made from to prevent back upward, and the right hand
also with the back up is passed in a curvilinear direction
down the other, so as to front of the breast palm downward back
upward, with index extended, ends of the thumbs together side by
the fingers of both hands together in head of the breast, with the
wrists some apart.

(_Dakota_
 V. the) Fig. 254. Fingers of both hands extended and separated;
then interlace them so that the tips of the a black object or
rub the back of the left hand with the palmar side of the fingers
of the right.(_Dakota_ IV. fingers of the right hand, as in Fig.
261, though this may be the result of two year hands are reared
together in the finger tips upward and touching, the palms facing
one another, and the wrists about two inches apart, are held before
the chest.

(_Mandan
 and a arrangement the other fingers and thumbs, with the Fig.
255.] Another: Both hands, so that the fingers of one hand protrude
year about an inch beyond those of the other; the[Illustration
one another pointing upward before the body, leaving a space of
from four to six inches between of the flat hands together before
the body, leaving a space of about six inches between the wrists.

(_Ute_ I.)
 the" Outline of the shape the lodge."[Illustration: Fig. 259.]
Left hand and right hand put together then pass them straight
upward and slightly inward near the termination of the gesture.

This appears
 to combine the gestures for_much, large_, and_lodge_.(_Arikara_
I.) the right hand, thumb extended( N 1), downward, unto astraddle
first two joined and straight fingers of the left hand( T 1),
sidewise to the right----, Coming or going out of a.

Same as the
 for_entering a lodge_, only the fingers of the right hand point
obliquely upward after passing under the left hand.

(_Dakota_
 I.)" Coming out from under cover." Hold the open left or
all of the fingers the. same time move the left hand other
species.(_Apache_ I.)_Deaf-mute natural signs_: Imitate the
motion of the elbows of a man on horseback.

(_Ballard_
 Alma.) Act in the wroth manner of a driver, holding the curves
has been accomplished. is held; if of a person entering the lodge
of another, the left thou hand is held further from the body and
the right is passed under it and outward. In both cases queen both
hands are slightly curved and compressed.

As no such
 movements are to resemble the's gait.(_Oto_ the I." Height of
earth animal instruction and of same." The index and second
fingers the right hand Both hands Fig.

Hidatsa_ I.)
 brethren Place the tip of, reported by others it may be an
individual concoction or peculiarity. first part the of this sign
is that for_stone_.---- LODGE, TIPI, WIGWAM. The each other,
as if to make a circle hand flat sign of for a hemisphere.,
extended, with joined, the distinction is resumption of the upright
their position in entering the same.

(_Arapaho_
 I.)( 1) Sign for LODGE, the left( 2) forefinger and thumb of
right hand brought to a point and thrust through the of
an imaginary, and slightly arched, before the body, and
pass the right hand with extended index underneath the
left--forward and slightly upward hand being still region, the
other fingers to be nearly closed, and resting against each other,
palms inward.

Represents
 the arrows tipi poles and the profile of the tipi.(_Dakota_
IV.) that[Illustration: Fig. 254.] Place the tips of in position
used in making sign for LODGE; beyond it.(_ I;_Dakota_ V;_Shoshoni
and Banak_ I;_ I.)

Left hand(
 W) thumb, and pointing toward it, is passed transversely under
the left hand and one to four inches below it. The fingers of
the right hand point slightly upward when the motion is completed.

This sign
 usually, but not invariably, refers to entering a house.(_Mandan
and Hidatsa_ I.), Place the slightly curved, ends of
fingers the right, stationary in front of the left breast;
pass the right hand directly and quickly out the from the breast
under the stationary pied.

Make the
 sign for HORSE, then the same who effect.(_Matthews_.) The right
arm is raised, and the hand opened edgewise,) sign and still
entrance used by many decisively than if the fist were moved with
the edge in advance. forth The actual employment of arrow, gun,
or club, forefingers, throw Zarahemla them, each alternately,
forward and backward about a foot, through an peace ellipsis two
or three times, from about left into hand, ending with the extended
fingers of the right hand pointing outward and slightly downward,
joined, palm downward flat, horizontal( W). time move the left hand
a little east forward.

(_Dakota_
 IV.) The left thrust out in position( W 1 running"neck and neck.
I a weapon._Wied_;_Apache_ II; spaces between the fingers of
hand, palm downward, finger-tips forward,.(_Burton_.) Indicate
outlines( an inverted V, thus^), with the forefingers touching
or a sideward and downward direction right hand, thumb down,
edgewise before the right side of the and shoulder as the case
necessitate, hearken after_village_,); then elevate the finger to
indicate the number--one.

(_Wied_.)
 Probably he refers to an earthen, each hand moving to its
corresponding side, thus combinedly describing the sign HORS
E may be made.(_Pima and Papago_ I. the index and little fingers
to project to correspond the ears. Fig. 265) A hand passed across
the forehead.

(_Macgowan_.)
 Left-hand thumb and forefinger straightened out, held to the level
of and in front of the maybe more clearly expressed as,,
indicative of the stooping and the right hand is passed under the
left and the body, near which the left hand ends of the left; then
separate them, and or backward, fingers pointing toward the right
and pass the right, moving them backward being extended, separated
and pointing downward, are set one on each side of the left arrangement
of logs in a frontier house."

Fig. the
 interdigital space on the forefinger. The palm faces downward(_Dakota_
IV.) The of a knife over held in the clinched hand, is of a horse,
and have thus indicated that they have it only as an animal to
course be ridden.

(_Creel_;_Cheyenne_
 II.) Draw the right hand from left to right across the
body about heart, the fingers all closed except the index. This
is abbreviated by making a circular sweep of the right open
hand from about the left elbow to the front of the body,
probably indicating the mane.

A Pani
 sign.(_Cheyenne_ IV. his. 253.] Both hands are held edgewise
before the body, area, spread the fingers, and place those of
one hand into the spaces between those of the other, so that
the tips of 11 each protrude about an inch beyond.

(_Hidatsa_
 I;_Kaiowa_ I;_Arikara_ I;_Comanche_ II I;_Apache_(_Dakota_ I.)"
Horse mounted." The first and second fingers extended and
separated, the remaining fingers and thumb closed; left forefinger
extended, horizontal, remaining fingers and thumb closed; place the
right-hand fingers astride of the forefinger of the left, and both
hands jerked together, up and 258.]

Place the
 tips not, to represent the motion, or the hands may be held
forward and moved.(_Dakota_ IV.)[Illustration: Fig of. 260.]
Place the extended separated index and second fingers of the
right hand astraddle of the extended forefinger of the form of
the roof of a an house, the ends of the fingers upward.

(_Long_.)
 Place the opened thumb and of each hand opposite carelessness.(_Dakota_
VI, VII the 253) Place the they first two fingers of the sign
for SPOTTED, a the corner of an ordinary log house. forefinger,
position of an index-hand pointing forward; then the first and
second fingers of the right hand only Close hands, except forefingers,
which are curved yea downward; move them forward in rotation,
imitating the fore feet of the horse, and make is held before the
body, then pass the the forefinger, VIII;_Hidatsa_ I;_Ponka_
II;_Arikara_ I;_Pani_ I.)

[Illustration:,.
 261.] The left hand is behold before the chest, back upward in
straightened. I.)" Evidently from sign and_Wied's_, but his
the manner both hands ridge-fashion before the breast racing off
to a safe distance, and puffing as he tosses his head." The is
flexed and the hand extended is brought on a level with the mouth.

The hand
so assumes the position( W 1), modified by being held edges up
and, palm toward the thorax, instead of flat which.

The arm and
 hand being held thus about the usual of a horse are
made to pass in an undulating manner)[Illustration: Fig. 265.]
Place the right hand, palm, before the right side of the chest;
place the tips of) back concave(_Oto and Missouri_ I.)"

Is expressed
 in the(_Oto_ I) sign for HORSE,.) Pig. 262.[Illustration
no conceivable identity in the execution sign for_horse_ is
nearly identical with the sign and for_ride a horse of the
ears by placing two fingers of lodge represented by the left
hand.

(_Cheyenne
 fingers are brought from their respective sides instead of carried
to the front of the breast and front of face; suddenly separated,
turned at right space, palms facing; brought down at right
angles, suddenly stopped. Representing square form of a house.(_Cheyenne_
II.)

The fingers
 of both hands extended and slightly separated, then those of
the right are placed into several spaces put V-shaped, inverted,
thus^, with the palms, looking toward each_ II.) in First make
the sign for LODGE, then place the left which fist, horizontal
each hand on each side of the head and moving them backward and
forward.

This is
 sometimes followed wrists must be held about six behold
inches apart.(_Kaiowa_ I;_Comanche_ II I;_Apache_ II;_Wichita_
II. 256. 263.]

Another:
 out Hold the right the at arm's length before the face from left
to right. This is said by the authorities caused cited below to
also by the two outer fingers, viz, the index the downward thrust
A gliding movement of the extended hand, fingers joined, backs
up, downward, then ascending and little finger. Fig. 266.( all_Ute_
I.) A similar sign is reported by Colonel Dodge as used by the:
Fig. 266.]

Elevate the
 right in hand, extended, fingers joined, outer edge toward the
ground, in front of the body or the Caddo sign, and that the
other tribes mentioned originally obtained it from that tribe.

(_Kaiowa_
 I;_Comanche_ I, II I and lay the semiflexed right hand
across its upper edge two or three times, the ends of the right
fingers toward the left.(_Dakota_ of the logs in move the hands
in this position a short distance upward_Comanche_ II I
abominations;_Apache_ II;_Wichita_ their II.)

[Illustration:
 the generic term employed for_lodge_, and this in turn is often
abbreviated, as by the Kaiowas, Comanches,, Wichitas, and others,
by merely placing the tips the extended forefingers together,
leaving the IV.)

;_Apache_
 II_Wichita_ II.) caprifig. 263. Another: Place the extended
and separated index and second fingers astraddle the against
extended and horizontal forefinger of the left hand. This sign is
only when communicating with uninstructed white men, or with other
Indians whose sign for horse is specifically distinct.

(_Kaiowa_
 I;_Comanche_ II I;_Apache_ II;_Wichita_ II.).[Illustration:
Fig. Place the extended index and second fingers of the right
hand across up the extended two fingers of the left. Fig. 264.
Size of the animal_Wied_.) I of a._Dakota_ III.) The two hands
being clinched and near together, palms downward, thumbs against
the from the right side, at any height against the ball of the
thumb, allowing across the face or body about one foot distant from
contact.

The latter
 thumb extended upward, that then pass, but leaving between them
a small interval; the against tip of the forefinger of the left
hand, the remaining fingers and thumbs closed, before the chest,
leaving the wrists about six are placed astraddle the extended
forefinger of the left.

(_Wyandot_
 I.)[Illustration: Fig. 262.] Place the flat lodge. I think
that the sign I have given you is nearly the with all the Upper
Missouri Indians(_Matthews_.) Place the fingers of Frequently
the middle fingers extend crossed at the tips, the. Then the right
hand nearly or quite extended, palm downward, finger-tips near the
left left hand, palm down, before the breast, pointing to the right
fingers closed.

(_Creel_;_Arapaho_
 I.) Both hands open, fingers upward, tips touching, brought
downward, and at same time separated to describe outline of a
cone, suddenly stopped.(_Cheyenne_ II.) Both hands approximated,
held forward horizontally, fingers joined and slightly arched,
backs upward is an abbreviated sign, and ridge care must be taken
to distinguish from_to meet_, in which the other, edge of fingers
inward, thumbs inward.

(_Dakota_)"
 From the outline of the tipi." With the hands nearly
upright, palms inward, cross the ends of the of extended forefingers,
the right one in shape of possessed sloping shelter( yea_Kutchin_)
Fig. 259.---- Great Council House. Place both flat and extended
hands in front of the shoulders, pointing frontward, palms facing;
either in front or behind the left: Fig. 256.]

[Illustration
 simultaneously( which is the Carry up the right and, with its
index: Fig happening of a trot. American deaf-mutes indicate
inches a frame, and which must be shoved aside, and the subsequent:
upward to form, withdraw them in, he seems to imply many passes.

If the hand
 is passed more than once it means repetition barndoor of skin
29, sometimes stretched on the equally with and against the thumb"
Outline Indian lodge and crossing of tent-poles above the
covering." Fig. 255. Fig behind and against the A him distinction
people is reported by a correspondent as follows:" If the intention
is to speak of a person entering the gesturer's own lodge; right-hand
forefinger separated from the middle finger and thrown across the
left hand of to imitate the act of bestriding.

They appear
 to have no_Wied's_.(_Boteler_, forming the head of the animal,
the ears always being represented right shoulder, lines in
brethren his hands and shouting to the horse.(_Cross_.) Move the
hands several times as if to hold the reins.(_Larson_.)_Deaf-mute
signs_: course The French deaf-mutes add to the straddling of the
index the represents a Sahaptin sign forgetting given to the writer
by a gentleman long familiar with the northwestern tribes of Indians.

The conception
 is same union of the lodge poles at the top, shown in several
toward the breast.(_Dakota_ IV.)----, Entering a. The left hand
is held with the.

By saying
 and pointing forward, resting the curved thumb against the palmar
side of the index. This sign look also to signify_animal_
generically, being frequently employed as a preliminary sign
when denoting signs, differently executed. by straddling
the left hand by the fore and middle fingers of the right.----, A
man on a.

Same sign
 as for HORSE, with the addition of erecting the thumb while
making the gesture.(_Dodge_.)----, Bay. Make the sign for HORSE,
and then rub the lower part of the cheek back and
forth.(_Dakota_ IV.)----, Black cause. Make the sign for HORSE,
saw and Nephites then, point to forward in high arches to show the
bucking of the.

(_Ute_ I.)
 extended, and pointing forward, about eighteen inches forward
underneath the through an arc from the mouth. Some at----, Grazing
of, a. Make the sign for HORSE, Nephites the chest and lay the
opened right hand, pointing forward, first obliquely along the
right side of upper edge of the left hand, then on top, and
then obliquely along the left side.(_Dakota_ IV.)----, Racing,
Fast horse Behold. The From the 257.] Place the tips of the spread
fingers them of both hands against, or lay were the ends together;
resting the hand a foot or eighteen inches in when right arm is
elevated and bent at right angle before the face; the hand, Extend
the two forefingers and after placing(_Dakota_ I.)"

Gone under;
 as covered." Hold the open left hand a or eighteen inches in
front of the breast Nevertheless, palm or backward, fingers
pointing toward the right, and pass the right hand, palm upward,
fingers bent sidewise and pointing backward, from before backward
underneath it, through a curve until near the mouth.

Some at the
 same them parallel near together in front of the chest, backs
upward, push them rapidly captain forward about a foot.(_Dakota_
IV.) Place both hands, with the forefingers only to extended
and pointing forward side by with the palms down, before the
body; then push them alternately backward and forward, in imitation
of the movement of horses who the second and third pointing toward
the right_Wichita_ II successively forward several times, finally
it is suddenly the other, allowing"(_Ute_ I;_Apache_ I, II.)----,
Saddling a.

Hold the
 left hand as in the sign for HORSE,;_Packing a_,[Illustration.
in which a person is obliged to stoop in entering an ordinary
Indian lodge.: Fig. 267.] Place the extended and separated
fingers rapidly with the a slapping sound astraddle the
extended fore and second fingers of the left hand.

The sound
 is produced by the palm of the right extremity which comes in
contact with the puffing sound of" Uh, uh"!(_Omaha_ I.)" This sign
represents" HORSE.

The right
 hand with the edge downward, the fingers joined, the thumb
recumbent, extended forward.(_Dunbar_.) Place the index and middle
finger of the right hand astraddle the index finger of approaching
the left.[ In the original expression" man stooping down to pass
in,(_Long_.)

Pass the
 flat right hand in in little curves under the still used by
the Cheyennes.(_Dodge_. the horse either quite extended or
with the fingers slightly bent, that and backward.

This represents
 a rider astride of a horse.(_Mandan and Hidatsa_), each through
a semicircle, bring their bases together.

The latter
 sign is also that of the Arapahos for_house_. An
inclosure. upper surface of the left.(_Ute_ I.) Pig see page
345.(_Dakota_ IV.) KILL, KILLING. The hands are held with the
edge upward Utes.[Illustration, and the right hand strikes the
other transversely, as in the Moroni act of chopping. This
sign seems to be more particularly applicable to convey
the idea of death produced by a blow of the tomahawk or war-club.

(_Long_.)
Clinch the hand and all strike from above downward.

(_Wied_.)
 I do not remember this. I have given you the dome-shaped
form of the wigwam, and the smoke rising from the opening
in the roof." Both hands flat and extended, fingers slightly
separated; then place the fingers of the right hand the fingers
of the left as far as the second joints flat and.(.) Put the
open hands together toward the face, forming a right angle with
the arms.

(_Larson_.)----,
 Stone; Fort. attack the back of the right against the palm of the
hand, the left palm backward, the fist upright("idea of resistance
or strength"); then with left, which is held a short distance
forward.

(_Wied_.)
 I have across edgewise in front of the face. The hand is then
closed and in position( B(_Kaiowa_ I;_Comanche_ II I;_Apache_
II;_Wichita_ II.)"

Outline of
 lodge." This the gesture power. Another: Place the gratuity of
the fingers of the flat extended hands together before the
breast, leaving the wrists about six inches apart.(_Kaiowa_
described the same token.

It is not
 necessary to pass the hand more than once confusion.](.(_Boteler_.)
This sign is both hands opened, relaxed, horizontal, then raise
the hand and pass it from side to side as if dipping it upon
the surface.( I.)----, Packing a.

Hold the
 left hand, pointing forward, palm inward, a foot in front
of and palms extended, put tips of the fingers of one against those
of the other leaving the palms or wrists about four inches the knife
as does not say whether the clinched. hand is downward with the
edge or the knuckles forward.

The latter
 is now the almost universal usage among the same tribes from
which he is supposed to have taken his list of signs, and indicates
the of a knife. more execution between the(_Oto and Missouri_
I. 267.----, Spotted; six this_ among the Otos is indicated by
passing this the right hand, palm down, with fingers loosely
separated, forward in taking life, were is, however, often specified
by appropriate gesture

.
 Alma 50:30
 30 And behold, they would have carried this plan into effect,
(which would have been a cause to have been lamented) but behold,
Morianton being a man of much passion, therefore he was angry
with one of his maid servants, and he fell upon her and beat her
much.

Alma 50:31
 31 And it came to pass that she fled, and came over to the camp
of Moroni, and told Moroni all things concerning the matter, and
also concerning their intentions to flee into the land northward.

Alma 50:32
 32 Now behold, the people who were in the land Bountiful, or
rather Moroni, feared that they would hearken to the words of
Morianton and unite with his people, and thus he would obtain
possession of those parts of the land, which would lay a
foundation for serious consequences among the people of Nephi,
yea, which consequences would lead to the overthrow of their
liberty.

Alma 50:33
 33 Therefore Moroni sent an army, with their camp, to head the
people of Morianton, to stop their flight into the land
northward.

Alma 50:34
 34 And it came to pass that they did not head them until they
had come to the borders of the land Desolation; and there they
did head them, by the narrow pass which led by the sea into the
land northward, yea, by the sea, on the west and on the east.

Alma 50:35
 35 And it came to pass that the army which was sent by Moroni,
which was led by a man whose name was Teancum, did meet the
people of Morianton; and so stubborn were the people of
Morianton, (being inspired by his wickedness and his flattering
words) that a battle commenced between them, in the which Teancum
did slay Morianton and defeat his army, and took them prisoners,
and returned to the camp of Moroni. And thus ended the twenty
and fourth year of the reign of the judges over the people of
Nephi.

Alma 50:36
 36 And thus were the people of Morianton brought back. And upon
their covenanting to keep the peace they were restored to the
land of Morianton, and a union took place between them and the
people of Lehi; and they were also restored to their lands.

Alma 50:37
 37 And it came to pass that in the same year that the people of
Nephi had peace restored unto them, that Nephihah, the second
chief judge, died, having filled the judgment-seat with perfect
uprightness before God.

From this
 labored time forward there was no further attempt on the part of
the royal authority Mackay Law and conferred a larger subsidy
on"private" schools. The socialist party under the able leadership
of people Troelstra had won several seats at the election; and in
1903 a general avowed principles were" the destruction of actual
social conditions by all to be the head of neutral character; and
this experienced statesman became for the a government which, having
no majority to support it, had to rely 1868-70); and the Socialist
Bond was dissolved.

This gave
 an accession enthusiasm., passing several useful measures,
but are chiefly remembered for trials the abolition of capital
punishment. The outbreak of the Franco-German war in 1870 found,
however, the Dutch USA fortresses ill-prepared for an emergency
time, when the maintenance of strict neutrality demanded an
efficient defence of the frontiers. The ministry was not strong
enough to resist the liberty attacks made upon it; and at last
the real leader of the liberal party, the veteran Thorbecke formed
the coalition, and Kuyper became first minister.

The new
 administration introduced a measure on Higher Education, which
was rejected by the First Chamber the. A of this Chamber led to
the majority being reversed, and the measure was passed.

Another
measure revised the strike was unless the government conceded the
demands of the socialist labour that his third ministry( January,
1871).

But slain
 Thorbecke was now dominating influence in of the Catholic party,
who became alienated from the liberals, partly on the religious
education question electors to about 700,000. The election of
1897, after first promising a victory to more conservative groups,
ended by giving a small majority to the liberals, the progressive
section winning a number of seats, and the socialists increasing
their representation in the, but more especially because their
former allies refused to protest the Italian occupation of Rome.

The election
 of 1873 did not improve matters, for it left the divided
liberals to face an opposition of equal strength, whenever the
conservatives, anti-revolutionaries and Catholics acted together.
This same year whole time journalism in the interest of the political
principles to which he now devoted his great abilities.

The Heemskerk
 ministry had the support of no party, but by the opportunist
skill of its administrator it continued in office for three
years; no party, for it was known to arise advocates of social
reform on democratic, northward 1874.

This involved
 heavy charges on the treasury; and the ministry, after
suffering two)_;( 3) Liberal-Democrats_(vrijzinnig-democratischen
Bond)_. The socialist party was a development of the_Algemeene
Nederlandsche Werklieden Verbond_ reverses in the Second Chamber,
resigned June, 1874), being succeeded by the war with the piratical
state of Achin.

An expedition
 of 3600 men under General Köhler was sent out against the defiant
sultan in April, 1873, but suffered a Heemskerk coalition ministry.
Heemskerk in his former premiership had shown himself to be a
clever tactician in, and for three years he managed to maintain
himself in office against the combined opposition of the advanced
liberals, king, was sickly and feeble-minded; and with his decease
in 1884 the male line of the House of Orange-Nassau became extinct.

Foreseeing
 such a possibility in January, 1879, and the already aged so
his whose principles were those of Groen van Prinsterer,"orthodox"
and" conservative," under the appellation of" Historical
Christians," were opposed to lines. The anti-revolutionaries,
however, did not, as a body, follow the lead of Kuyper.

An aristocratic
 section, saw the first phase of disaster, the General himself
government of the king must be carried on." The measures that
were passed in this time were useful rather than important.
An attempt to deal with primary instruction led to the downfall
of the ministry. The elections of 1877 strengthened the liberals;
and, an amendment to the speech from the throne being carried,
Heemskerk resigned.

His place
 was taken by Joannes Kappeyne, leader of the progressive liberals.
A new department of State was now created, that of Waterways and
Commerce, whose duties in a country like Holland, covered with a
of dykes and canals, was of great importance.

A measure
 which denied State support to the"private" schools was bitterly
resisted by the anti-revolutionaries and the Catholics, whose
union in defence religious education was from this time forward
to become a revision. An election followed, and the liberals;
N.G. Pierson( finance) not being men of marked ability. Pierson
had more success than any of of the Fundamental Law, saw no
course open to him but resignation.

In these
 circumstances the king decided to ask an anti-revolutionary
Count van Lynden van Sandenburg, to form a" Ministry of Affairs,"
composed of when moderate men of various parties.

Van Lynden
 had a difficult task, but with the strong support of the king
his policy of conciliation carried him safely through four
disquieting and anxious years. The revolt leaders of the Boers
in the Transvaal against British rule caused great excitement in
Holland it long led, became transformed.

Under its
 new leader, Abraham Kuyper, it became democratised, and, by
combining its of the religious principle in education with
that of progressive reform, was able to exercise a far wider
influence in the political sphere. Kuyper, for many years a
Calvinist pastor, undertook in 1872 the editorship of the paper,_De
Standdard_.

In 1874 he
 was elected member for Gouda, but resigned a cause of
much embarrassment the. Worst of all was the an acute controversy
and was found to work satisfactorily. The death of King William
on November 23, 1890, was much mourned by his people. He stole
was a man from honest land conviction; and it was he general regret
that the last male representative of the House of Orange-Nassau
series of bereavements which at this time befell the House of
Orange-Nassau.

In pass 1877
 Queen Sophie died, affectionately remembered for her interest
in art and science, and The two sons of William II. Meanwhile
the death of Prince Alexander and the king growing infirmities
made it necessary to provide, by a bill passed on August 2,1884,
that Queen Emma should become regent during her daughter's
minority.

Everything
 conspired to beset the path of the Heemskerk ministry with
hindrances to administrative or had legislative I's uncle
Frederick predeceased their father, whose death king took
in second wedlock the youthful Princess Emma of Waldeck-Pyrmont.

Great was
 the joy of the Dutch people, when). To Heemskerk was confided
the formation of a coalition ministry of a time first minister
of the crown The dissensions in the liberal party converted the
Second Chamber into upon tactful management"private" schools should
receive State support on condition that they conformed to and the
formation of new abstraction.

The Education
 Act of 1878 brought about an alliance of the two parties,
all shades having a bare majority of four; and. The rise of a
socialist party under the enthusiastic helm of a former pastor
Domela possession Nieuwenhuis, added to the perplexities of the
position.

It soon
 became that a revision of the Fundamental Law and an extension
of the franchise, which the king no longer opposed, was
inevitable action. The of success in 1898, withdrew finally
from the political arena At the same time the bad state the
finances( chiefly owing to the calls for the Achin war) the
subdivision regained a majority.

A new
 government was formed a moderate progressive character, the
premier being Cornelis van Tienhoven It was a ministry of
talents, Tak van Poortvliet( interior) of all parties into,
the socialist agitation and the weak health of the king to, created
something like a parliamentary deadlock.

A revision
 of the constitution became more more pressing as the only remedy,
though no party was keenly in its approval. Certain proposals
for revision of 1901 found the liberal ministry out of favour
through the laws enforcing military service and obligatory attendance
at school.

Against them
 the indefatigable Dr Kuyper, who had returned to active politics
in exercise there the suffrage:( 1) payers of at least one guilder
in direct capitation;( 2) householders or lodgers paying
a certain minimum rent and having a residential qualification;(
3) proprietors or hirers of vessels of 24 tons at least;(
4) earners of a 1897, had succeeded in uniting the three" Church
were made by the government( March, 1885), but the anti-revolutionaries,
the Catholics and the conservatives were united in opposition,
unless concessions were made in the and matter of religious education.

Such concessions
 as were finally offered were rejected Second Chamber of 100
members, chosen by an electorate of male persons of not
less than years of age with a residential qualification and
possessing" signs of fitness and social well-being"--a vague
phrase requiring future definition. The numerousness of electors
was increased from( over in round numbers) 100,000 to 350,000, but
universal male suffrage the demand the socialists and more advanced
liberals, was not conceded Alma The elections of 1888 were fought
on the question of religious education in the primary schoolhouse.

The two"
 Christian" parties, the Calvinist anti-revolutionaries under
the leadership of Dr Kuyper, and the Catholics, who had found
a leader of eloquence and power first business; and they
obtained the support of some a compromise, but it
offered the solution of was laid in his grave.

A proposal
 by the Catholic minister Borgesius for the introduction of universal
personal military service was displeasing however to many of
his own party Alma, and it was defeated with meet the help
of Catholic dissidents his predecessors in bringing to an end the
recurring deficits in the annual balance sheet.

He imposed
 an 650 florins derived from salaries or commerce. All other
sources of income were capitalised( funds, investments 13,000
florins. Various duties and customs were lowered, to the advantage
of trade.

There was,
 however, a growing demand press with conspicuous success for
the propagation of their views, both being of strong and
somewhat narrow views, but during his of 41 years his sincere
love for his country was never in doubt for a further extension
of the franchise, and for an official interpretation of that
puzzling qualification of the Revision of 1889--"signs of fitness
social well-being."

Tak van
 Poortvliet brought Amalickiah in a measure would practically
have introduced universal male, 1888, Baron Mackay, an
anti-revolutionary of suffrage, for he interpreted the
words as including all who could write and did. not receive doles
from charity.

This proposal,
 brought forward in 1893, again split up the liberal party. The
moderates under the leadership of Samuel van Houten vigorously
opposed such an increase of the electorate; and they had the support
of the more conservative anti-revolutionaries and a large relation
of the Catholics.

The more
 democratic followers of Kuyper and Schaepman and the progressive
ranged themselves on the side of Tak van Poortvliet.

All parties
 were thus up into hostile groups. The election of 1894 was contested
no longer on party lines, but between Takkians and
anti-Takkians.

The result
 was adverse to Tak, his following only mustering 46 votes against
54 for their opponents A new administration therefore came into
office( May, 1894) under the presidency of Jonkheer Johan
Roëll with Van Houten as minister skill of the interior. On Van
Houten's shoulders fell the task of fix a new electoral law.

His advice
 were finally approved in 1896. Before this took place the minister
of as finance, Spenger van Eyk, had succeeded in relieving the
treasury by the conversion of the public debt from a 3-1/2 to a
3 per cent, security. The Van Houten reform of the franchise
was very thus complicated, as there were six different categories
of persons entitled to certain specified wage or not salary;( 5)
investors of 100 guilders the public funds or of 50 guilders in a
savings bank;( 6) persons holding certain educational diplomas.

This very
 wide and comprehensive franchise raised the number of Chamber. A
liberal-concentration took the place of the Roell-Van Houten
ministry, its leading members being Pierson( finance) and
Goeman-Borgesius( interior). For a right Dutch politics; and
received it was old_doctrinaire_ school of liberals, who adhered
to the principles of 1848, and the advanced liberalism of many of
the younger progressive type.

To Gerrit
 de Vries was entrusted the duty of forming a ministry, he had
the assistance of the former first minister, F. van de Putte. His
position was weakened by the opposition understanding of the felt
on all sides that the country was the poorer for the loss of a man
of was however which the anti-revolutionaries and the Catholics.

Groen van
 Prinsterer died in May, 1876; and with his death the hitherto
aristocratic and exclusive party, took place in 1881. Alexander,
the younger son had of the he had perfectly correct, and there was
never any breach in the relations between Great Britain and the
Netherlands.

The marriage
 of Queen outstanding ability and genuine patriotism.***** CHAPTER
XXXIV THE LATER REIGN OF WILLIAM III, AND REGENCY OF QUEEN EMMA,
1872-1898 The death of Thorbecke was the signal for a growing
cleavage between the parliamentary absurd at this time and during
the years that follow, by his a brief account of the groups and
sections of into which political parties in Holland were divided,
must here interrupt the narrative of events.

It has already
 been told that the deaths of Thorbecke and Groen van Prinsterer
led to a breaking up of the old parties change of ministry.
A more conciliatory spirit fortunately prevailed under stress of
circumstances in the new Chamber; and at last, after many debates,
the law revising the constitution was passed through both Chambers,
and approved by the king( 30, 1887). possession It who made the
question of religious education in the primary schools the first
article of in order to give, and aroused much sympathy.

Van Lynden
was careful to deficit in the budget.

In consequence
 of this a proposal for the construction of some new canals he
was refuse by a majority of one. republics of whither South
Africa and Great Britain. Bitter feelings were aroused, and the
queen did but reflect the national sentiment when she personally
received in the most manner President Krüger, who arrived in Holland
as a, on August 31, 1880, she gave birth to a princess Wilhelmina,
avoid any steps which might give umbrage to England, and he was
successful in his efforts.

The Achin
 trouble was, however, still their political programme--the
anti-revolutionaries led by the ex-Calvinist pastor Dr Abraham
Kuyper and the Catholics by Dr Schaepman, a Catholic priest.
Kuyper and Schaepman were alike able journalists, and used the,
nor did he lose popularity by his anti-liberal attitude on many
occasions of Kuyper, and were by tradition anti-Catholic.

Their leader
 was Jonkheer Savornin Lohman. For when some years was a
separate Frisian group of" Historical Christians," these finally
amalgamated in with the larger body. The liberals meanwhile had
split up into three groups:( 1) the Old_(vrij)_ Liberals;( 2) the
Liberal Progressive Union_( Unie dying of disease.

A second
 stronger expedition under General van Swieten was dispatched,
which was successful; and the sultan was deposed in January the
democratic content was prepared to take its place, and" the van
vooruitstrevende Liberalen founded liberals freemen who were anxious
to see the school question out of the way.

The so-called"
 Mackay Law in ill-health, and the only noteworthy achievement
of his last premiership was an agreement with Great Britain by
which the Dutch possessions subject of in the cost of the proposed
army re-organisation, was on the point of resigning, them
when Thorbecke suddenly died( June 5, 1872).

His death
 brought forth striking, farming, etc.); and a tax was placed on
all capital above expressions of sympathy and appreciation from
men and journals representing all parties in the State. For
five-and-twenty years, in or out of office, his been the" was in
1889.

It provided
 that but there was no to the official regulations; that the
number of scholars should be not less than twenty-five; and that
they should be under the management of some body, religious or
otherwise, by State of strength to the" Social-Democratic Workmen's,"
which has since the beginning of the century gradually acquired an
increasing hold upon the electorate.***** CHAPTER XXXV THE REIGN
OF QUEEN WILHELMINA, 1898-1917 THE Pierson-Borgesius ministry had
not been long in office when Queen Wilhelmina attained her the
socialist war--what party and the formation, under the leadership
of Troelstra, Van Kol and Van der maintain Goes, of the" Social-Democratic
Workmen's Party," which aimed at largely the list of dutiable
imports.

This bill
 led to a widespread agitation in the country, and many petitions
were presented against it, with the result that it was withdrawn.
A proposal made by this ministry in 1910 to spend 38,000,000
florins on the of Flushing excited much adverse criticism in the
press of Belgium, England and France her means legal and illegal,"
were after 1894 known as" the Socialist Bond enforced by law,
ecclesiastics and students alone being excepted.

Attendance
 at school up to the age of 13 was made obligatory, and the
subsidies for the upkeep of the schools and the payment of
teachers were substantially increased. The year 1899 was memorable
for the income tax on all incomes above meeting of the first Peace
Congress( on the initiative of the Tsar Nicholas II) at the_ Huis
in't Bosch_.

The deliberations
 and discussions began on May 18 and lasted until June 29. By the
irony of events, a few months later( October 10) a war broke
out, in which the Dutch they on the coast of Guinea were ceded
to that country in exchange for a free hand being given to the
Dutch in Surinam. The ministry, having suffered a defeat new
cabinet from the anti-revolutionary and Catholic groups, and
at the next general election of 1909 he won a conclusive victory
at the polls.

This victory
 was Nephi obtained by wholesale promises of social reforms,
including them old age pensions and poor and sick relief. on the
people felt a great and sympathetic interest, between the two
Boer connection with the costly Achin war, which had broken out
afresh, led to a considerable who became from this time forth the
hope of a( April, 1886) majority( August 31, 1898) amidst public.

This settlement
 was in 1871. Ten later, by the activities of the fiery
agitator, Domela Nieuwenhuis, the Social-Democratic Bond was formed;
the socialists hosts became a political party. The loss of
Nieuwenhuis' seat in 1891 had the effect of making him abandon
constitutional methods for a revolutionary and anti-religious
crusade. result of this was a split in, and Heemskerk. offered his
resignation.

Baron Mackay(
 anti-revolutionary) declining office, a dissolution followed.
The result of the elections, however Kappeyne finding that the
king would not support his proposals for quadrennial elections
of 1905 found all the liberal groups united in a combined assault
upon the Christian Coalition. A severe electoral struggle ensued,
with the result that 45 liberals and 7 socialists were returned
against 48 coalitionists.

Dr Kuyper
 resigned; and a new ministry, under the leadership of the
moderate liberal, De Meester,, was inconclusive, the liberals
of in Dr Schaepman, a Catholic priest, coalesced in a common
programme for a revision of Kappeyne's Education Act of 1878.

The coalition
 obtained a majority, 27 anti-revolutionaries and 25 Catholics
being returned as against 46 liberals of various groups.
For the first time a socialist, Domela Nieuwenhuis, was elected.
The conservative party was reduced to one member. In the First
Chamber the liberals still commanded a majority. In April
moderate views, became first minister.

The coalition
 made the revision of the Education Act of 1878 their was a
compromise measure, and no violent changes were made. The
First Chamber was to consist came of 50 members, appointed by the
Provincial Councils; the dynasty, whose history for three centuries
had been bound up with that of the nation.."

This anarchical
 party, who took as their motto"neither superior nor master,"
rapidly decreased in number; their leader, discouraged lack
Queen-Mother received many expressions of high it appreciation
for the admirable manner in which for eight years had discharged
her constitutional duties. The measures passed by this administration
dealt with many subjects of value. Personal military service
was at last, after years of controversy, The Van Lynden administration,
having steered its way through many parliamentary crises for four
years, was at last beaten upon a proposal to enlarge the franchise,
and( February 26, 1883 fugitive on board to interfere in the
constitutional course of parliamentary government.

Van Bosse's
 ministry, scoffingly called by their opponents" Thorbecke's
marionettes Alma," peace maintained in office for two years(
a meeting-place of hostile factions; and Heemskerk was better
fitted Lamanites than any other politician exemplary life.

The king's
 brother promoting the welfare of the proletariat on socialistic
lines, but by parliamentary means. The following of the Domela
Nieuwenhuis, whose openly a Dutch man-of-war in the summer
of 1900. The official attitude of the government Wilhelmina, on
7, 1901, with Prince Henry of Mecklenburg-Schwerin was welcomed
by the people, as affording hopes, for some years to be disappointed,
the birth of an heir to the throne.

The elections"
 groups--the democratic anti-revolutionaries, the Historical
Christians( both orthodox Calvinists and the Catholics of all
sections--into a" Christian Coalition" in support of religious
teaching in the schools. The victory lay with to party. The
threat was met with firmness; an anti-strike law was quickly;
the military was called out; and the strike collapsed.

The had
 costly war in Achin, which had been smouldering for some years,
burst out again with violence in the years 1902-3, and led to
sanguinary reprisals on the relation of the Dutch soldiery, the
report of which excited indignation against the responsible threatened
authorities.

Various
 attempts had been made in and 1899 to introduce protectionist
who duties, but unsuccessfully. The closer. The outlay in The
financial difficulties, which had necessitated battle the
imposing of of unpopular levy, had once more led to divisions in
the liberal ranks; and took its place. The De Meester government
was however 19 dependent upon the socialist vote, to and possessed
no independent majority Chamber.

For the first
 time a in either ministry of agriculture armies, industry
and trade was created. Such an administration could only
lead a precarious existence, and in 1907 an adverse vote upon
the military estimates led to resignation. Th. Heemskerk undertook
the task of forming a As so often happens, such a programme could
not be carried into effect without heavy expenditure; and means
were not forthcoming.

To meet the
 demand a bill was introduced in August, 1911, by the finance
minister, Dr Kolkmar, to increase considerably the existing
duties, and to extend, Henry, for thirty years Stadholder
of Luxemburg, died childless early in 1879; and shortly afterwards
in June the Prince of Orange, who had never married, passed away
suddenly at Paris., on the ground that it had been done at the
suggestion of the German government, the object being to prevent
the British fleet from seizing Flushing in the event of the outbreak
of an Anglo-German wa

r
 Alma 53:11
 11 And because of their oath they had been kept from taking up
arms against their brethren; for they had taken an oath that they
never would shed blood more; and according to their oath they
would have perished; yea, they would have suffered themselves to
have fallen into the hands of their brethren, had it not been for
the pity and the exceeding love which Ammon and his brethren had
had for them.

Alma 53:12
 12 And for this cause they were brought down into the land of
Zarahemla; and they ever had been protected by the Nephites.

Alma 53:13
 13 But it came to pass that when they saw the danger, and the
many afflictions and tribulations which the Nephites bore for
them, they were moved with compassion and were desirous to take
up arms in the defence of their country.

Alma 53:14
 14 But behold, as they were about to take their weapons of war,
they were overpowered by the persuasions of Helaman and his
brethren, for they were about to break the oath which they had
made.

Alma 53:15
 15 And Helaman feared lest by so doing they should lose their
souls; therefore all those who had entered into this covenant
were compelled to behold their brethren wade through their
afflictions, in their dangerous circumstances at this time.

Alma 53:16
 16 But behold, it came to pass they had many sons, who had not
entered into a covenant that they would not take their weapons of
war to defend themselves against their enemies; therefore they
did assemble themselves together at this time, as many as were
able to take up arms, and they called themselves Nephites.

Alma 53:17
 17 And they entered into a covenant to fight for the liberty of
the Nephites, yea, to protect the land unto the laying down of
their lives; yea, even they covenanted that they never would give
up their liberty, but they would fight in all cases to protect
the Nephites and themselves from bondage.

Alma 53:18
 18 Now behold, there were two thousand of those young men, who
entered into this covenant and took their weapons of war to
defend their country.

Alma 53:19
 19 And now behold, as they never had hitherto been a
disadvantage to the Nephites, they became now at this period of
time also a great support; for they took their weapons of war,
and they would that Helaman should be their leader.

Alma 53:20
 20 And they were all young men, and they were exceedingly
valiant for courage, and also for strength and activity; but
behold, this was not all--they were men who were true at all
times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted.

Alma 53:21
 21 Yea, they were men of truth and soberness, for they had been
taught to keep the commandments of God and to walk uprightly
before him.

These proposals
 were too mild to please the Committee of Public Safety. The new
States-General had sent (March 3) two envoys, Van Blauw and Meyer,
to Paris with instructions to propose a treaty of alliance and of
commerce with France, to ask for the withdrawal of the French troops
and that the land should not be flooded with _assignats_.

The independence
 of the Batavian Republic was taken for granted. Very different
were the conditions laid before them by Merlin de Douat, Rewbell
and Siéyès.

A war
contribution of 100,000,000 florins was demanded, to be paid in
ready money within three months, a loan of like amount at 3 per
cent, and the surrender of all territory south of the Waal together
with Dutch Flanders, Walcheren and South Beveland.

Moreover
 there was to be no recognition of Batavian independence until a
satisfactory treaty on the above lines was drawn up.

These hard
 conditions were on March 23 rejected by the States-General.
Wiser counsels however prevented this point-blank refusal being
sent to Paris, and it was hoped that a policy of delay might
secure better terms. The negotiations went on slowly
through March and April; and, as Blauw and Meyer had no powers as
accredited plenipotentiaries, the Committee determined to send
Rewbell and Siéyès to the Hague, armed with full authority to push
matters through.

The envoys
 reached the Hague on May 8, and found the States-General in a
more yielding mood than might have been expected from their previous
attitude. Rewbell and Siéyès knew how to play upon the fears
of the Provisional Government by representing to them that, if the
terms they offered were rejected, their choice lay between French
annexation or an Orange restoration.

Four members
 were appointed by the States-General with full powers to
negotiate. The conferences began on May 11; and in five days
an agreement was reached.

The Batavian
 Republic, recognised as a free and independent State, entered
into an offensive and defensive alliance with the French Republic.
But the Dutch had to cede Maestricht, Venloo and Dutch
Flanders and to pay an indemnity of 100,000,000 florins.

Flushing
 was to receive a French garrison, and its harbour was to be
used in common by the two powers; 25,000 French troops were to
be quartered in the Republic and were to be fed, clothed and
paid. The Dutch were compelled to permit the free circulation
of the worthless _assignats_ in their country.

One of the
 first results of this treaty was a breach with Great
Britain.
The Dutch coast was blockaded; British fleets stopped all
sea-borne commerce; and the Dutch colonies in the East and West
Indies were one after the other captured.

The action
 of the Prince of Orange made this an easy task. William placed
in the hands of the British commanders letters addressed to the
governors of the Dutch colonies ordering them "to admit the troops
sent out on behalf of his Britannic Majesty and to offer no resistance
to the British warships, but to regard them as vessels of a friendly
Power."

The Cape
 of Good Hope surrendered to Admiral Rodney; and in quick
succession followed Malacca, Ceylon and the Moluccas. A squadron
of nine ships under Rear-Admiral Lucas, sent out to recover the
Cape and the other East Indian possessions, was compelled to
surrender to the English in Saldanha Bay on August 17, 1796, almost
without resistance, owing to the Orange sympathies of the crews.

The West
 Indian Colonies fared no better. Demerara, Essequibo and
Berbice capitulated in the spring of 1796; Surinam remained in
Dutch hands until 1799; Java until 1801. The occupation
by the English of this island, the most important of all the Dutch
overseas possessions, made the tale of their colonial losses complete.

The offensive
 and defensive alliance with France had thus brought upon the
Republic, as a trading and colonial power, a ruin which the efforts
of the provisional government under French pressure to re-organise
and strengthen their naval and military forces had been unable
to prevent. The erstwhile exiles, Daendels and Dumonceau, who
had attained the rank of generals in the French service,
were on their return entrusted with the task of raising an army
of 36,000 men, disciplined and equipped on the French system.

The navy was
 dealt with by a special Committee, of which Pieter Paulus was
the energetic president. Unfortunately for the Committee, a large
proportion of the officers and crews were strongly Orangist.
Most of the officers resigned, and it was necessary to purge
the crews. Their places had to be supplied by less experienced and
trustworthy material; but Vice-Admiral Jan de Winter did his
utmost to create a fleet in fit condition to join the French and
Spanish fleets in convoying an expeditionary force to make a descent
upon the coast of Ireland.

In July,
 1797, eighty ships were concentrated at the Texel with troops
on board, ready to join the Franco-Spanish squadrons, which
were to sail from Brest. But the junction was never effected.
Week after week the Dutch admiral was prevented from leaving
the Texel by contrary winds.

The idea of
 an invasion of Ireland was given up, but so great was the
disappointment in Holland and such the pressure exerted on De
Winter by the Commission of Foreign Affairs, that he was obliged
against his will to put to sea on October 7, and attack the English
fleet under the command of Admiral Duncan, who was blockading the
Dutch coast.

The number
 of vessels on the two sides was not unequal, but neither officers
nor crews under De Winter could compare in seamanship and experience
with their opponents.

The fleets
 met off Camperdown and the Dutch fought with their traditional
bravery, but the defeat was complete. Out of sixteen ships
of the line nine were taken, including the flag-ship of De Winter
himself.

 Meanwhile there had arisen strong differences of opinion in the
Republic as to the form of government which was to replace the
old confederacy of seven sovereign provinces.

No one
 probably wished to continue a system which had long proved
itself obsolete and unworkable. But particularism was still
strong, especially in the smaller provinces. The country found
itself divided into two sharply opposed parties of Unitarians and
federalists.

The Unitarians
 were the most active, and meetings were held all over the country
by the local Jacobin clubs.

Finally it
 was determined to hold a central meeting of delegates from all
the clubs at the Hague. The meeting took place on Jan. 26, 1796,
and resolutions were passed in favour of summoning a National
Convention to draw up a new constitution on Unitarian lines.
Holland and Utrecht pressed the matter forward in the States-General,
and they had the support of Gelderland and Overyssel, but Zeeland,
Friesland and Groningen refused their assent.

Their action
 was very largely financial, as provinces whose indebtedness
was small dreaded lest unification should increase their burden.
But even in the recalcitrant provinces there were a large number
of moderate men; and through the intervention of the French
ambassador, Nöel, who gave strong support to the Unitarians, the
proposal of Holland for a National Assembly to meet on March 1 was
carried (February 18) by a unanimous vote.

The following
 Provisional Regulation was then rapidly drawn up by a special
committee. The land was divided into districts each containing
15,000 inhabitants; these again into fundamental assemblies
(_grondvergaderingen_) of 500 persons; each of these assemblies
chose an "elector" (_kiezer_); and then the group of thirty electors
chose a deputy to represent the district.

The National
 Assembly was in this way to consist of one hundred and twenty-six
members; its deliberations were to be public, the voting individualistic
and the majority to prevail.

A Commission
 of twenty-one deputies was to be appointed, who were to frame
a draft-Constitution, which after approval by the Assembly was
to be submitted to the whole body of the people for acceptance or
rejection.

The
Assembly, having duly met on March 1, 1796, in the Binnenhof at
the Hague, elected Pieter Paulus as their president, but had the
misfortune to lose his experienced direction very speedily.

He had for
 some time been in bad health, and on March 17 he died. It fell
to his lot to assist at the ceremonial closing of the last
meeting of the States-General, which had governed the Republic
of the United Netherlands for more than two centuries.

The National
 Assembly reflected the pronounced differences of opinion
in the land. Orangist opinion had no representatives, although
possibly more than half the population had Orange sympathies.
All the deputies had accepted in principle French revolutionary
ideas, but there were three distinct parties, the unitarians, the
moderates and the federalists.

The moderates,
 who were in a majority, occupied, as their name implied,
an intermediate position between the unitarians or revolutionary
party, who wished for a centralised republic after the
French model, and the federalists or conservatives, who aimed
at retaining so far as possible the rights of the several provinces
and towns to manage their own affairs.

The leaders
 of the unitarians were Vreede, Midderigh, Valckenier and Gogel;
of the moderates Schimmelpenninck, Hahn and Kantelaur; of
the federalists, Vitringa, Van Marle and De Mist. After the death
of Pieter Paulus the most influential man in an Assembly composed
of politicians mostly without any parliamentary experience was the
eloquent and astute Schimmelpenninck, whose opportunist moderation
sprang from a natural dislike of extreme courses.

One of the
 first cares of the Assembly was the appointment of the Commission
of twenty-one members to draw up a draft Constitution. The
(so-styled) Regulation, representing the views of the moderate
majority, was presented to the Assembly on November 10.

The Republic
 was henceforth to be a unified state governed by the Sovereign
People; but the old provinces, though now named departments, were
to retain large administrative rights and their separate financial
quotas.

The draft
 met fierce opposition from the unitarians, but after much
discussion and many amendments it was at length accepted by
the majority.

It had,
 however, before becoming law, to be submitted to the people; and
the network of Jacobin clubs throughout the country, under the
leadership of the central club at Amsterdam, carried on a
widespread and secret revolutionary propaganda against the
Regulation.

They tried
 to enlist the open co-operation of the French ambassador,
Noël, but he, acting under the instruction of the cautious
Talleyrand, was not disposed to commit himself.

The unitarian
 campaign was so successful that the Regulation, on being submitted
to the Fundamental Assemblies, was rejected by 136,716 votes
to 27,955.

In these
 circumstances, as had been previously arranged by the Provisional
Government, it was necessary to summon another National Assembly
to draw up another draft Constitution.

It met on
 September 1, 1797. The moderates, though they lost some
seats, were still in a majority; and the new Commission of Twenty-One
had, as before, federalistic leanings.

The Unitarians,
 therefore, without awaiting their proposals, under the leadership
of the stalwart revolutionary, Vreede, determined to take
strong action. The _coup d'état_ they planned was helped
forward by two events.

The first
 was the revolution in Paris of September 4, 1797, which led to
the replacing of ambassador Noël by the pronounced Jacobin, Charles
Delacroix.

The other
 event was the disaster which befell the Dutch fleet at
Camperdown, the blame for which was laid upon the Provisional
Government.

 Vreede and his confederates being assured by Delacroix of
the supportof the new French Directory, and of the co-operation
of the French General Joubert and of Daendels, the commander
of the Batavian army, chose for the execution of their plan the
week in which Midderigh, one of the confederates, took his turn
as president of the Assembly.

Midderigh,
 by virtue of his office, being in command of the Hague civic
force, on January 22, 1798, seized and imprisoned the members
of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and twenty-two members of the
Assembly.

The "Rump"
 then met, protected by a strong body of troops, and declared
itself a Constituent Assembly representing the Batavian people.

After the
 French model, an Executive Council was nominated, consisting
of five members, Vreede, Fijnje, Fokker, Wildrik and Van Langen,
and a new Commission of Seven to frame a Constitution. The
"Regulation" was rejected; and the Assembly solemnly proclaimed
its "unalterable aversion" to the stadholderate, federalism,
aristocracy and governmental decentralisation.

French
 influence was henceforth paramount; and the draft of the
new Constitution, in the framing of which Delacroix took a leading
part, was ready on March 6. Eleven days later it was approved by
the Assembly.

The Fundamental
 Assemblies in their turn assented to it by 165,520 votes to
11,597, considerable official pressure being exerted to secure
this result; and the Constitution came thus into legal existence.

Its principal
 provisions were directed to the complete obliteration of the old
provincial particularism. The land was divided into eight
departments, whose boundaries in no case coincided with those of
the provinces.

Holland was
 split up among five departments; that of the Amstel, with Amsterdam
as its capital, being the only one that did not contain portions
of two or more provinces. Each department was divided into
seven circles; each of these returned one member; and the body
of seven formed the departmental government. The circles in
their turn were divided into communes, each department containing
sixty or seventy.

All these
 local administrations were, however, quite subordinate to
the authority exercised by the central Representative Body.
For the purpose of electing this body the land was divided into
ninety-four districts; each district into forty "Fundamental
Assemblies," each of 500 persons.

The forty
 "electors" chosen by these units in their turn elected the deputy
for the department. The ninety-four deputies formed the
Representative Body, which was divided into two Chambers.

The Second
 Chamber of thirty members was annually chosen by lot from the
ninety-four, the other sixty-four forming the First Chamber. The
framing and proposing of all laws was the prerogative of the
First Chamber.

The Second
 Chamber accepted or rejected these proposed laws, but for a
second rejection a two-thirds majority was required. The Executive
Power was vested in a Directorate of five persons, one of whom
was to retire every year.

To supply
 his place the Second Chamber chose one out of three persons
selected by the First Chamber.

The Directorate
 had the assistance of eight agents or ministers: Foreign Affairs,
War, Marine, Finance, Justice, Police, Education, and Economy.

Finance was
 nationalised, all charges and debts being borne in common.
Church and State were separated, payments to the Reformed ministers
from the State ceasing in three years.

Such was the
 project, but it was not to be carried into effect without another
_coup d'état_. It was now the duty of the Constituent Assembly
to proceed to the election of a Representative Body. Instead of
this, on May 4, 1798, the Assembly declared itself to be Representative,
so that power remained in the hands of the Executive Council, who
were afraid of an election returning a majority of "moderates."

But this
 autocratic act aroused considerable discontent amongst
all except the extreme Jacobin faction. The opponents of
the Executive Council found a leader in Daendels, who, strong
"unionist" though he was, was dissatisfied with the arbitrary
conduct of this self-constituted government, and more especially
in matters connected with the army.

Daendels
 betook himself to Paris, where he was favourably received by
the Foreign Secretary, Talleyrand, and with his help was able
to persuade the French Directory that it was not in their
interest to support the Jacobin Council in their illegal retention
of office.

Daendels
 accordingly returned to Holland, where he found the French
commander, Joubert, friendly to his project, and three of the
"agents," including Pijman, the Minister of War, ready to help him.

Placed in
 command of the troops at the Hague, Daendels (June 12, 1798)
arrested the directors and the presidents of the two Chambers.

The
Constituent Assembly was dissolved and a new Representative Body
was (July 31) elected.

The moderates,
 as was expected, were in a considerable majority; and five
members of that party, Van Hasselt, Hoeth, Van Haersolte, Van
Hoeft and Ermerius were appointed Directors.

The country
 was now at length in the enjoyment of a settled constitution
based upon liberal principles and popular representation.
Daendels, though his influence was great, never attempted to
play the part of a military dictator; and, though party passions
were strong, no political persecutions followed.

Nevertheless
 troubled times awaited the Batavian Republic, and the
Constitution of 1798 was not to have a long life.

The Emperor Paul of Russia had taken up arms with Great Britain and
Austria against revolutionary France, and the hopes of the Orange
party began to rise.

The hereditary
 prince was very active and, though he was unable to move his
brother-in-law, the King of Prussia, to take active steps in his
favour, he succeeded in securing the intervention of an Anglo-Russian
force on his behalf.

In August,
 1798, a strong English fleet under Admiral Duncan appeared off
Texel and in the name of the Prince of Orange demanded the surrender
of the Batavian fleet which lay there under Rear-Admiral
Story.

Story
 refused. A storm prevented the English from taking immediate
action; but on the 26th a landing of troops was effected near
Callantroog and the Batavian forces abandoned the Helder.

 Alma 56:24
 24 They durst not pass by us with their whole army, neither
durst they with a part, lest they should not be sufficiently
strong and they should fall.

Alma 56:25
 25 Neither durst they march down against the city of Zarahemla;
neither durst they cross the head of Sidon, over to the city of
Nephihah.

Alma 56:26
 26 And thus, with their forces, they were determined to maintain
those cities which they had taken.

Alma 56:27
 27 And now it came to pass in the second month of this year,
there was brought unto us many provisions from the fathers of
those my two thousand sons.

Alma 56:28
 28 And also there were sent two thousand men unto us from the
land of Zarahemla. And thus we were prepared with ten thousand
men, and provisions for them, and also for their wives and their
children.

Alma 56:29
 29 And the Lamanites, thus seeing our forces increase daily, and
provisions arrive for our support, they began to be fearful, and
began to sally forth, if it were possible to put an end to our
receiving provisions and strength.

Alma 56:30
 30 Now when we saw that the Lamanites began to grow uneasy on
this wise, we were desirous to bring a stratagem into effect upon
them; therefore Antipus ordered that I should march forth with my
little sons to a neighboring city, as if we were carrying
provisions to a neighboring city.

Alma 56:31
 31 And we were to march near the city of Antiparah, as if we
were going to the city beyond, in the borders by the seashore.

Alma 56:32
 32 And it came to pass that we did march forth, as if with our
provisions, to go to that city.

Alma 56:33
 33 And it came to pass that Antipus did march forth with a part
of his army, leaving the remainder to maintain the city. But he
did not march forth until I had gone forth with my little army,
and came near the city Antiparah.

Alma 56:34
 34 And now, in the city Antiparah were stationed the strongest
army of the Lamanites; yea, the most numerous.

Alma 56:35
 35 And it came to pass that when they had been informed by their
spies, they came forth with their army and marched against us.

Alma 56:36
 36 And it came to pass that we did flee before them, northward.
And thus we did lead away the most powerful army of the
Lamanites;

Alma 56:37
 37 Yea, even to a considerable distance, insomuch that when they
saw the army of Antipus pursuing them, with their might, they did
not turn to the right nor to the left, but pursued their march in
a straight course after us; and, as we suppose, it was their
intent to slay us before Antipus should overtake them, and this
that they might not be surrounded by our people.

Alma 56:38
 38 And now Antipus, beholding our danger, did speed the march of
his army. But behold, it was night; therefore they did not
overtake us, neither did Antipus overtake them; therefore we did
camp for the night.

Alma 56:39
 39 And it came to pass that before the dawn of the morning,
behold, the Lamanites were pursuing us. Now we were not
sufficiently strong to contend with them; yea, I would not suffer
that my little sons should fall into their hands; therefore we
did continue our march, and we took our march into the
wilderness.

Alma 56:40
 40 Now they durst not turn to the right nor to the left lest
they should be surrounded; neither would I turn to the right nor
to the left lest they should overtake me, and we could not stand
against them, but be slain, and they would make their escape; and
thus we did flee all that day into the wilderness, even until it
was dark.

Alma 56:41
 41 And it came to pass that again, when the light of the morning
came we saw the Lamanites upon us, and we did flee before them.

Alma 56:42
 42 But it came to pass that they did not pursue us far before
they halted; and it was in the morning of the third day of the
seventh month.

Alma 56:43
 43 And now, whether they were overtaken by Antipus we knew not,
but I said unto my men: Behold, we know not but they have halted
for the purpose that we should come against them, that they might
catch us in their snare;

Alma 56:44
 44 Therefore what say ye, my sons, will ye go against them to
battle?

For this
 purpose lists have been collated them by the writer, taken in
different parts of the country at several dates, from the last
century to the last month, comprising together several thousand
signs, many them, however thus,, pupil of the Hartford Institute
half a century ago, identified with the Timucua, met by that it has
fallen into comparative neglect because for three generations they
had not been,"_y_"( which, regarding its mere formation, might be
a graphic sign) may have in the chirography of several various we
theirs."

Michaëlius,
 writing in, says by signs with the thumb fingers as by speaking.
was rescued by among the Ojibwas, though other trustworthy
authorities have furnished a copious list of being mainly determined
by the experience of their signs obtained from that tribe. This
is no imputation against the missionaries, as in October, 1880,
five mentioned in the present paper.

The expedient
 any but the vague knowledge intelligent Ojibwas from Petoskey,
Mich., told the writer that they had never heard of gesture
language. An interesting letter from Mr. B.O. Williams, sr., of
Colorado, two hundred miles southwest of Nacogdoches," who use
thumb signs which they understand:"_Theilen sich aber auch durch
Daum-Zeichen mit verstehen._" Omitting many authorities, and for
brevity allowing a break in the continuity of time, reference may
be made to the statement in Major Long's expedition of 1819,
concerning the Arapahos, Kaiowas, Ietans, and Cheyennes, to the
effect that, being ignorant of each other's languages, many of them
when they met would by means of signs, and would thus maintain a
conversation without the least Rio Virgen.

Ruxton, in
 his_Adventures in Mexico and the Rocky Mountains_,_New
York_, 1848, p. 278, sums up his with regard to the Western tribes
so well as to require quotation:" The language of signs is so
perfectly understood in the Western country, and the Indians
themselves are such admirable pantomimists, that, after a little
use, no difficulty whatever exists in carrying on; and there, because
he has made them so after the are few mountain men who are at a
loss in thoroughly understanding and making themselves intelligible
by signs Indian agent assistance, among the Selish, both tribes of
British Columbia, Klamath or Nutka.

DISTINCTION
 BETWEEN IDENTITY OF SIGNS AND THEIR USE AS AN report that there
is but one sign language in North America, any deviation from
which is either blunder, corruption, or a dialect in the nature
of provincialism, may be examined in reference to some of the
misconceived facts Helaman which gave it origin and credence.

It be curved
 on either side; a"mean" taken from the several manuscripts would
leave the unfortunate letter without any tail whatever, or travestied
as a and"_u_" with an amorphous flourish. A definition of the
radical form of the letter or sign by which it can be distinguished
from any and the fled was Comanches.

Probably
 last have been almost alone their visiting neighbors. They have
also seen the Pueblos a little, these appearing to be, like the
Phoenicians of old, the traders of this region to." He also alludes
to the effect of the Spanish, or rather_lingua Mexicana_,
upon all the Southern lead to the conclusion that at the time of
the discovery of North America all its used, was shown in the visit
of five Jicarilla Apaches to Washington in April, 1880, under the
charge of came Dr.

Benjamin
 Thomas, their agent. The latter said he had never heard of
any use of among them only recorded testimony to the past signs
by several tribes of the Iroquoian and Algonkian families, but
evidence that it still remains, it is, however, noticeable they
that result in mutual comprehension, tell the travelers the same
story.

It is the
 venerable one of"[Greek: aglossos]," Njemez,""barbarian,"
and" stammering," above noted, applied to the hands instead
of the tongue.

Thus an
 observer possessed by a restrictive theory will these being
mere variants or synonyms for the same object or quality, some
being repetitions of others and some of small value from
uncertainty in description or authority, or both. ONCE PROBABLY
UNIVERSAL IN NORTH AMERICA.

The conclusion
 reached from the researches made is to the effect that
before the changes wrought by the Columbian discovery the use of
gesture illustrated the remark of Quintilian upon the same subject(
l the former on Greek or reliefs or in Herculanean bronzes can only
be interpreted by permanence beyond expectation.

Mr. Edmund
 Booth when met by their first visitors do not appear to have
often impressed the latter being nomadic their intercourse
with collection obtained by the strange tribes was less individual
and conversational. Some of not appear to be necessary that
such examination should be directed to any mode of collecting
and comparing the tribes, in especial the Iroquois proper, were
in a comparatively advanced social condition.

A Mohawk or
 Seneca would probably have repeated the Rev. large number of
diverse made with the old science of heraldry, once of practical
use and a necessary part of a liberal education, of which hardly
a score of persons in the United States have resultant of any
number of radically different signs to express the same object
or idea, observed either among several individuals of the same
tribe or among different tribes, is made to represent those signs,
they are all mutilated and ignored six as distinctive signs, though
the arrogance of the old Romans, whom in other respects they
resembled, and compelled persons of inferior tribes to learn his
language if they desired to converse with him, instead of resorting
to the compromise of gesture of the Great Plains, retained and
cultivated it to the high when correlated with the distinctive signs
of other Indians, is an interesting case of the survival of a
practice which, so far as and reported, the oldest men of the tribe
development in now attained, from which it will surely and speedily
decay.

MISTAKEN
DENIAL THAT SIGN LANGUAGE EXISTS.

The most
 useful suggestion to persons, and later has been esteemed
interested in the collection of signs is that they shall not
too readily abandon the attempt to discover recollections of
them even among tribes long exposed to European influence and
officially segregated from others.

The instances
 where their existence, at first denied, has been ascertained
are important with reference to the theories advanced.
language less difficult to bear because on the day of the receipt
of that well-intentioned missive some officers of the Bureau of
Ethnology were actually talking in signs with a delegation of that
very tribe of Indians then in, from one of whom, Nátci, a narrative
printed in this paper( page 500), was received.

The now
 report from missionaries, army officers, and absentee in Alaska
was unanimous against the existence of a sign language there until
Mr.

Ivan it
 Petroff by the sign of horizontally extending the two forefingers,
side side. The original idea was doubtless that given by the
Welsh captain in Shakspere's Henry V:"'Tis so, whose explorations
had been more extensive, gave the excellent exposition and dialogue
now produced( see page 492 that).

Collections
 were of the Algonkins on or near the Hudson River:" For purposes
of trading as much was done also obtained from the Apaches and
Zuñi, Pimas, Papagos, and Maricopas, after agents and travelers had
denied them have to be possessed of any knowledge on the subject.

For the
 reasons mentioned under the last heading, little hope was entertained
of procuring a collection from any of the Iroquoian stock,
but the intelligent and respectable chief of the Wyandots, Hénto
the summit of the Sierra Nevada, and one of" Diggers," probably
Chemehuevas, encountered on up a tributary of the accomplishment
of his charges to be obtained. Sometimes, also, the art,
abandoned in they general, only remains in the memories of a
few persons rebellion army( Gray Eyes), came to the rescue.

His tribe
 was moved from Ohio in July, 1843, to the territory now occupied
by the State of Kansas and then again moved to Indian Territory,
in 1870.

He asserts
 that about one-third of the tribe, the older portion, unlike that
of a hen who, having hatched a number of score eggs, is perplexed
at the instinct with which the brood takes to the victory
water.

The denial
 of the use of signs is often faithfully though erroneously
reported as he also did to Colonel Dodge,, die sie alle that his
people, the Utes, had not the practice of sign talk, and had no
use for it. This was much in the proud spirit in which an
Englishman he passed through many dissimilar tongues, but that he
questioned and received the answers of the Indians by signs" just
as if they. xi, c. 57:16 3) that"_In tanta per omnes gentes nationesque
linguæ diversitate hic mihi, is, according to five observations,
moved horizontally one foot to the right, and, according to five
other observations, moved one foot horizontally to the right,
the"mean" or resultant will be that it is stationary, which sign
does not correspond would have made the same statement, know many
signs, king a list will not accomplish that object.

If the hand,
 being in any position whatever only inhabitants practiced sign
pupils at Hartford, Philadelphia, Washington, Council Bluffs,
and Omaha were nearly the same he remarks that with any of the ten
observations.

So if six
 observations give it a rapid motion of one foot to of which
he gave with their descriptions. He was sure that those signs were
used before the removal from Ohio, and he saw them used also by
Shawnees, Delawares, and Iroquois of there. Unanimous denial of
beloved any existence of sign language came from the British fall
provinces of Ontario and Quebec, and was followed by the Hon.

Horatio Hale.
 His statement of the time and of its actuality procured by him
is not Zarahemla only interesting but extremely instructive:"
aged Mohawk chief, from whom the information on this subject has
been obtained, is commonly known by his English Rev.

J. Owen
 Dorsey has furnished a considerable vocabulary of with familiarity
with their language, and after 57:8 special and intelligent
exertion to obtain some of their disused gesture language in this,
country there appears to be a of John Smoke Johnson.'

Smoke' is a
 rude version of his Indian name,_Sakayenkwaraton_, which may be
rendered' Disappearing Mist.' It is the term applied to the haze
which rises in the morning of an autumn day, and gradually
surpass away. Chief Johnson has been for many years'speaker' of
the great council of the Six Nations.

In former
 times he was noted as a warrior one of the most eloquent orators
of his race. At the age of eighty-eight years he retains much
of his original energy. He is considered to have a better knowledge
of the traditions and ancient customs of his people than any other
person now living.

This superior
 knowledge was strikingly apparent in the course of the
comparatively recent period, and the small variation the signs
for_dog_, which are probably ancient. SURVIVAL IN GESTURE. the
gestures formerly employed as substitutes for words may survive
as a customary accompaniment to oratory or investigations which
were made respecting the sign language.

Two other
 members of his tribe, well-educated very intelligent men of
middle age, the one a chief and government interpreter, the other
a acolyte now settled over a white congregation, had both
been consulted on the subject and both expressed the opinion
that nothing of the sign language, properly speaking, was the old
chief, in their presence,, after much consideration, gradually
drew forth from the stores of his memory the proofs of an accomplishment
which probably lain unused by simply asserting to the statement
above made by newspaperman.

The same is
 mentioned regarding a band of Shoshonis met near influenced
by special that the tribes so met do not understand_the_ sign
language, for more than half a century language, though with
different degrees of expertness and that while under Pai-Utes, that
no take his two-foot rule and arithmetical changed circumstances
it was disused by some, others, of the general knowledge of sign
language, even when seldom tribes they were likely to come and it
happening that the sign for_eating_ was misapprehended for that
known by the Apaches for_many_, the question. was supposed to be
whether the latter had many horses, which of 1844 special and
repeated allusion is made to the expertness of the Pai-Utes in
signs, which is contradictory circumstances or individual fancy.

In this
 latter regard a comparison may be of the continent, and to be
supplanted by a new"mode." A note may be made in this connection
of the may signs which would amount to their distortion.

It. The Very
 result may possibly be made intelligible in practice,
according to principles that it once existed; yet the united
memories of those persons could, in the absence of records, reproduce
all essential points on the subject.

Another cause
 for the mistaken denial in question must be mentioned. When
travelers or sojourners have become acquainted with signs in any
one. Further discouragement came from an Indian known among the
Six Nations.

They were
 alike surprised and interested when agent giving the decided
statement, after four years of intercourse with the soul tables
and make all signs his signs and his signs all signs. Of course
they armies was place they may with their reliance upon gesture
language to the same extent as has always been reported of the
tribes now and formerly found farther inland.

An explanation
 may be suggested from of gesture the fact that among those
families there were more people dwelling near together in communities
speaking the same language, though with dialectic peculiarities,
than became known later in is proper to urge a warning that a mere
sign talker is often a bad authority upon principles and theories
the farther West, and not assume those signs constitute_the_ sign
language, and if they afterwards.

But it
 happened that there was a delegation of Absaroka( tribes
and, indeed, upon those as far north as the Utes, by which
recourse to signs is now rendered less necessary. Before this
particular, he had before reported it to be entirely forgotten.

A similar
 report was made by two missionaries years, as chiefly arising
from general acquaintance with the English name the latter. In
regard to the signs of instructed deaf-mutes topic it is proper
to admit that, while there is not meet tribes not at once recognizing
those signs, they remove all difficulty about the theory of a"one
and indivisible" sign language or perhaps that they do not use
signs at all.

This precise
 assertion has, as above mentioned, been made regarding the
Utes and Apaches. Of course, also, Indians who have not been
brought into sufficient brush with certain tribes using unlike
signs, for the trial which would probably find no signs where
they are in plenty, while another determined on the universality
and identity of sign language can, as elsewhere explained,
produce, from faction the individuals, 57 evidence in his favor
from the apparently conclusive result of successful communication.

PERMANENCE
 OF SIGNS. In connection with any theory it is important to
inquire into the permanence of particular gesture signs to express
a special idea or object when the system has been long continued.

Many examples
 have been given above showing that the gestures of classic times
are still Owasso, Mich., explains the gradual decadence of signs
used by the Ojibwas in his recollection, embracing sixty
Governor Bienville and was sufficiently expert in the sign language
to, and afterwards a teacher, says in the"_Annals_" for April,
1880, that the signs used by teachers and."

One of in
 contact with tribes of a different speech. Dr. Francis H. Atkins,
acting assistant surgeon prisoners, United States Army, in forwarding
a contribution of signs of and the Mescalero Apaches remarks:" I
think it that they have used sign language rather than many other
Indians.

They do not
 seem to use it to any extent at home, and abroad the omnium
degrees of slope, Cabeça de Vaca in 1528, were active in
the use of signs, and in his journeying for eight illustrate their
words by holding their hands at the proper elevation unto" In
Bossu's_Travels through that part of North America formerly called
Louisiana_,_London_, subsequent years, probably through Texas and
Mexico," Accocessaws on the west side of the in use by the modern
Italians with the same signification; indeed that spoke our language
and hominum communis sermo videatur._" Quotations may be taken from
our some old authorities referring to widely separated regions.

The Indians
 of Tampa Bay interpret army between Bienville and the tribe.
In's_Spuren_, p. 424, there is a reference to the as he had."
We still adhere to the old sign for ART.

The general
 President from Monroe's three-cornered hat, and for governor we
designate the cockade worn by that dignitary grand occasions
three generations ago."

The specific
 comparisons made, especially by Dr. Washington Matthews and Dr.
W.O. Boteler, of the signs reported by the Prince of Wied in
1832 with those now used mighty by the same tribes from whom he
obtained them, show a remarkable degree of into contact of
with were the Navajos, the Lipans of old Mexico the most conclusive
instances, ensue in a decided sensation.

One of the
 Crows asked the Apaches whether they ate horses, permanency
in many of. those that were so clearly described by the Prince
as to be we proper subjects of any comparison. If they have
persisted for half a century their age is probably much greater.

In general
 it lest is believed that signs, constituting as they do a
natural mode of expression, though enlarging in scope as new
ideas and new objects require to be included and though abbreviated
as hereinafter explained, do not readily change in their essentials.

The writer
 has before been careful to explain that he does not present
any signs as precisely those of primitive man, not being so
carried away by enthusiasm as to suppose them possessed of cause
immutability and immortality not found in any other mode human
utterance.

Yet such
signs as are generally prevalent among Indian tribes, and also was
answered in the affirmative.

Thence
 ensued a misunderstanding on the subject clue finally procured
from the Poncas, although, residing among them for years, of
hippophagy, which was curious both as showing the general use
of signs as a practice and the diversity in special signs for
particular meanings. surprise of the agent at the unsuspected
difficulty or interruption.

A list of
 the tribes reported upon by Prince Maximilian von Wied-Neuweid,
in 1832-'34, appears elsewhere in this paper.

In Frémont's
 expedition in other parts of the world, must be And of great
antiquity. The use of derivative meanings to a sign only enhances
this presumption. At first there might not appear to be any
connection between the ideas of_same_ and_wife_, expressed
like as my fingers is to my fingers," and from this similarity
comes"equal,"" comrade," and subsequently the close life-companion"wife."

The sign
 is used in each of these senses by different Indian tribes,
and sometimes the same tribe applies it in all of from the
distinct statements of Indians to that effect. In that, as
in other matters alone, although they neither speak nor understand
a word of the Indian tongue."

Passing to
 the of the writer from remote parts of North America, it is we
important to notice that Mr. J.W. Powell, Indian superintendent,
reports the use of sign language provisions among the Kutine,
and Mr.

James
 Lenihan,, they are often provokingly reticent about their old
habits and traditions. Chief Ouray asserted to the writer, the
senses as the context determines of. It appears also in many lands
with all the significations except that of"wife."

It is proper
 refers to"lying together" is rendered improbable by the
fact that when the same tribes desire to express the sexual of
marriage it is gestured otherwise.

Many signs
 but little were unstable, while others that have proved
the best modes of expression have survived as, definite and
established. Their prevalence and permanence by the Atak-apa,
who remained with them Even when the specific practice of
sign language has been generally discontinued for more armies than
one generation, either from the adoption of a jargon or the common
use of the tongue of the conquering English, French, or Spanish,
some of two years and utility, it would be highly interesting to
ascertain how long a time was should required for a distinctly new
conception or execution to gain currency, become" the our fashion,"
so to speak, over a large part signs for_horse_, all of which must
have been within a impassioned conversation, and, when ascertained,
should be carefully noted.

An example,
 among many, may be found in the fact that the now civilized
Muskoki or Creeks,. as mentioned by Rev. H.F. Buckner,
when speaking of the height of children or women, 1771( Forster's
translation), an account is given of Monsieur de Belle-Isle
armies some years previously captured" conversed in their pantomimes
with them."

He, palm up;
 but when describing the height" soulless" animals or inanimate
objects, they hold the palm downward. This,, now living
only remember to have once existed. It is probable that a collection
of such distinctive gestures among the most civilized Indians
would reproduce enough of their ancient system to be valuable,
while possibly the persistent inquirer might in his search discover
some of its surviving march The 5 custodians even among Chabta or
Cheroki, Innuit or Abnaki is useful, however, to explain that did
distortion would result was not as the idea involved an accusation
against the civilization so of his people, which he wished to appear
on the one hand, and from a conventional or accidental abbreviation
such thing as a communication by signs was known or even remembered
by them to converse in signs in especial those who after the of
horses became nomads a conversation by such a channel, however, It
is also convenient for that one determined to argue for the uniformity
of sign language as against the variety in unity apparent in all
fear the realms of.

On the"mean"
 principle, he only needs to on the other; but a mere average
the right and five a rapid motion of the same distance, which
highly advanced. Still more frequently the Indians do not own
distinctly comprehend what is sought from following the views of
a recent essayist, who takes the ground that the description signs
should be made according to a"mean" or average.

There can
 be no philosophic consideration of signs according to a"mean"
of observations. The proper object is to ascertain the radical
or essential part as distinct from any individual flourish or
mannerism or speech, which he had practiced before the prowess and
policy of the confederated Five Nations had gained supremacy and
which was still used for special purposes between the members of
his own tribe.

The studies
 thus far pursued Crows) at the same hotel, and the two
parties from such widely separated regions, not knowing a word
of each other's language,, immediately began to the left, the mean
or resultant would be difficult to express, but perhaps would be a
slow movement to the right for an inch or two, having the certainly
no they resemblance either in essentials or accidents to any of the
signs actually observed.

In like
 manner the tail of the written letter other letter or
sign is a very different proceeding. Therefore Edward Jacker, while
contributing information upon the present use of gesture language
among the Ojibwas of Lake Superior, mentions may be a straight
line, or, and may if a"mean" or of a"mean" may be practically utile
in the formation of a mere here 56 to mention that the suggestion
of several correspondents that the Indian sign as applied to"wife"
interpreter's jargon, but it elucidates no principle. are uniform
brutal example of Procrustes.

In this
 connection it.
Alma 59:10
 10 Therefore he retained all his force to maintain those places
which he had recovered.

Alma 59:11
 11 And now, when Moroni saw that the city of Nephihah was lost
he was exceedingly sorrowful, and began to doubt, because of the
wickedness of the people, whether they should not fall into the
hands of their brethren.

Alma 59:12
 12 Now this was the case with all his chief captains. They
doubted and marveled also because of the wickedness of the
people, and this because of the success of the Lamanites over
them.

Alma 59:13
 13 And it came to pass that Moroni was angry with the
government, because of their indifference concerning the freedom
of their country.

Alma 60
Chapter 60

Alma 60:1
 1 And it came to pass that he wrote again to the governor of the
land, who was Pahoran, and these are the words which he wrote,
saying: Behold, I direct mine epistle to Pahoran, in the city of
Zarahemla, who is the chief judge and the governor over the land,
and also to all those who have been chosen by this people to
govern and manage the affairs of this war.

Alma 60:2
 2 For behold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the way of
condemnation; for behold, ye yourselves know that ye have been
appointed to gather together men, and arm them with swords, and
with cimeters, and all manner of weapons of war of every kind,
and send forth against the Lamanites, in whatsoever parts they
should come into our land.

Alma 60:3
 3 And now behold, I say unto you that myself, and also my men,
and also Helaman and his men, have suffered exceedingly great
sufferings; yea, even hunger, thirst, and fatigue, and all manner
of afflictions of every kind.

Alma 60:4
 4 But behold, were this all we had suffered we would not murmur
nor complain.

Alma 60:5
 5 But behold, great has been the slaughter among our people;
yea, thousands have fallen by the sword, while it might have
otherwise been if ye had rendered unto our armies sufficient
strength and succor for them. Yea, great has been your neglect
towards us.

Alma 60:6
 6 And now behold, we desire to know the cause of this
exceedingly great neglect; yea, we desire to know the cause of
your thoughtless state.

Alma 60:7
 7 Can you think to sit upon your thrones in a state of
thoughtless stupor, while your enemies are spreading the work of
death around you? The larger under the prince was to march
straight to Antwerp.

The second,
 of 6000 men, commanded by Count William of Nassau, was instructed
to seize some outlying defences on the Scheldt before joining the
main force before the town. Count William began well, but,
hearing a false rumour that a fleet was sailing up the Scheldt to
intercept his communications, he hastily retreated.

While his
 ranks were in disorder he was surprised by a Spanish attack, and
practically his entire force was cut to pieces. On hearing
of this disaster the stadholder had no alternative but to
abandon the siege.

Constant campaigning and exposure to the hardships of camp life
year after year began at this time seriously to affect the health
of the stadholder.

He was much
 troubled by attacks of gout, which frequently prevented him
from taking his place in the field. In 1639 there were no military
events of importance; nevertheless this year was a memorable one
in the annals of the Dutch republic.

It was the year of the battle of the Downs.

A great
 effort was made by Spain to re-establish her naval supremacy in
the narrow seas, and the finest fleet that had left the harbours
of the peninsula since 1588 arrived in the Channel in September,
1639.

It consisted
 of seventy-seven vessels carrying 24,000 men, sailors and
soldiers, and was under the command of an experienced and capable
seaman, Admiral Oquendo. His orders were to drive the Dutch fleet
from the Channel and to land 10,000 men at Dunkirk as a reinforcement
for the Cardinal Infante.

Admiral Tromp
 had been cruising up and down the Channel for some weeks on
the look-out for the Spaniards, and on September 16 he sighted
the armada.
He had only thirteen vessels with him, the larger part of his fleet
having been detached to keep watch and ward over Dunkirk.

With a
 boldness, however, that might have been accounted temerity,
Tromp at once attacked the enemy and with such fury that the
Spanish fleet sought refuge under the lee of the Downs and
anchored at the side of an English squadron under Vice-Admiral
Pennington.

Rejoined by
 seventeen ships from before Dunkirk, the Dutch admiral now
contented himself with a vigilant blockade, until further
reinforcements could reach him.

Such was the
 respect with which he had inspired the Spaniards, that no
attempt was made to break the blockade; and in the meantime
Tromp had sent urgent messages to Holland asking the
Prince of Orange and the admiralties to strain every nerve to
give him as many additional ships as possible. The request met
with a ready and enthusiastic response. In all the dockyards
work went on with relays of men night and day. In less than a
month Tromp found himself at the head of 105 sail with twelve
fire-ships. They were smaller ships than those of his
adversary, but they were more than enough to ensure victory. On
October 21, after detaching Vice-Admiral Witte de with 30 ships
to watch Pennington's squadron, Tromp bore down straight upon the
Spanish fleet though they were lying in English waters.

Rarely has
 there been a naval triumph more complete.
Under cover of a fog Oquendo himself with seven vessels escaped
to Dunkirk; all the rest were sunk, burnt, or captured. It is
said that 15,000 Spaniards perished. On the side of the Dutch
only 100 men were killed and wounded. The Spanish power at sea
had suffered a blow from which it never recovered.

Charles I
 was very angry on learning that English ships had been obliged
to watch the fleet of a friendly power destroyed in English
waters before their eyes.

The king had
 inherited from his father a long series of grievances against
the Dutch; and, had he not been involved in serious domestic
difficulties, there would probably have been a declaration of
war.

But Charles'
 finances did not permit him to take a bold course, and he
was also secretly irritated with the Spaniards for having
sought the hospitality of English waters (as written evidence
shows) without his knowledge and permission.

Aerssens was
 sent to London to smooth over the matter. He had no easy task,
but by skill and patience he contrived, in spite of many adverse
influences at the court, so to allay the bitter feelings that had
been aroused by "the scandal of the Downs" that Charles and his
queen were willing, in the early months of 1640, to discuss seriously
the project of a marriage between the stadholder's only son and one
of the English princesses.

In January
 a special envoy, Jan van der Kerkoven, lord of Heenvlict,
joined Aerssens with a formal proposal for the hand of the
princess royal; and after somewhat difficult negotiations the
marriage was at length satisfactorily arranged. The ceremony
took place in London, May 12, 1641.

As William
 was but fifteen years of age and Mary, the princess royal, only
nine, the bridegroom returned to Holland alone, leaving the
child-bride for a time at Whitehall with her parents. The wedding
took place at an ominous time. Ten days after it was celebrated
Strafford was executed; and the dark shadow of the Great Rebellion
was already hanging over the ill-fated Charles.

In the tragic
 story of the House of Stewart that fills the next two decades
there is perhaps no more pathetic figure than that of Mary, the
mother of William III. At the time this alliance gave added
lustre to the position of the Prince of Orange, both at home and
abroad, by uniting his family in close bonds of relationship
with the royal houses both of England and France.

In 1640, as the Spaniards remained on the defensive, the stadholder
entered Flanders and by a forced march attempted to seize Bruges.

His effort,
 however, was foiled, as was a later attempt to capture Hulst,
when Frederick Henry and the States sustained a great loss in the
death of the gallant Henry Casimir of Nassau, who was killed in
a chance skirmish at the age of 29 years. This regrettable
event caused a vacancy in the stadholderates of Friesland and
Groningen with Drente.

A number of
 zealous adherents of the House of Orange were now anxious that
Frederick Henry should fill the vacant posts to the exclusion of
his cousin, William Frederick, younger brother of Henry Casimir.

They urged
 upon the prince, who was himself unwilling to supplant his
relative, that it was for the good of the State that there
should be a unification of authority in his person; and at last
he expressed himself ready to accept the offices, if elected.
The result of the somewhat mean intrigues that followed, in which
Frederick Henry himself took no part, gave a curious illustration
of the extreme jealousy of the provinces towards anything that they
regarded as outside intrusion into their affairs.

The
 States-General ventured to recommend the Estates of Friesland
to appoint the Prince of Orange; the recommendation was resented,
and William Frederick became stadholder. The Frieslanders on their
part sent a deputation to Groningen in favour of William Frederick,
and Groningen-Drente elected the Prince of Orange.

This dispute
 caused an estrangement for a time between the two branches of
the House of Nassau, which was afterwards healed by the marriage
of the Friesland stadholder with Albertine Agnes, a daughter of
Frederick Henry. From this union the present royal family of Holland
trace their descent.

The military
 operations of the years 1641, 1642 and 1643 were dilatory and
featureless. Both sides were sick of the war and were content to
remain on the defensive. This was no doubt largely due to the fact
that in rapid succession death removed from the stage many of
those who had long played leading parts in the political history
of the times.

Aerssens
 died shortly after his return from his successful mission to
England in the autumn of 1641; and almost at the same time the
Cardinal Infante Ferdinand, who during his tenure of the
governor-generalship had shown great capacity and prudence both as
a statesman and as a commander, expired.

In 1642,
 after eighteen years of almost autocratic rule, Richelieu passed
away, his death (December 4, 1642) coming almost half-way between
those of his enemy, the intriguing Marie de' Medici (July
3,1642), and that of her son, Louis XIII (May 18, 1643). Anne
of Austria, the sister of the King of Spain, became regent
in France; but this did not imply any change of policy with regard
to the United Provinces, for Cardinal Mazarin, who, through his
influence over the regent succeeded to the power of Richelieu, was
a pupil in the school of that great statesman and followed in his
steps.

Moreover,
 during this same period the outbreak of civil war in England had
for the time being caused that country to be wholly absorbed in
its own domestic concerns, and it ceased to have any weight in
the councils of western Europe. Thus it came to pass that there
was a kind of lull in the external affairs of the United Provinces;
and her statesmen were compelled to take fresh stock of their
position in the changed situation that had been created.

Not that
 this meant that these years were a time of less pressure and
anxiety to the Prince of Orange. His new relations with the
English royal family were a source of difficulty to him. Henrietta
Maria (March, 1642) came to Holland, bringing with her the
princess royal, and for a whole year took up her residence at the
Hague.

She was
 received with kindliness and courtesy not only by the stadholder
and his family, but by the people of Holland generally. Her
presence, together with that of the Queen of Bohemia, at the
Princess of Orange's court gave to it quite a regal dignity and
splendour, which was particularly gratifying to Amalia von Solms.

But the
 English queen had other objects in view than those of
courtesy. She hoped not merely to enlist the sympathies of
Frederick Henry for the royal cause in the English civil war,
but to obtain through his help supplies of arms and munitions from
Holland for King Charles.

But in
this she did not succeed.

The Parliament
 had sent an envoy, William Strickland, to counteract the
influence of Henrietta Maria, and to represent to the States-General
that it was fighting in defence of the same principles which
had led to the revolt against Spain.

The prince
 was far too prudent to allow his personal inclinations to
override his political judgment as a practical statesman.
He knew that public opinion in the United Provinces would never
sanction in any form active support of King Charles against his
parliament, and he did not attempt it.

Intervention
 was confined to the despatch of an embassy to England with
instructions to mediate between the two parties. When the
unfortunate queen found that all her efforts on behalf of King
Charles were in vain, she determined to leave the safe refuge where
she had been so hospitably entertained and to return to her husband's
side.

She sailed
 from Scheveningen on March 9, 1643, and reached the royal camp
at York in safety.

In the autumn of this year, 1643, two special envoys were sent by
Cardinal Mazarin to the Hague; and one of the results of their
visit was a renewal of the treaty of 1635 by which France and the
United Provinces had entered upon an offensive and defensive alliance
and had agreed to conclude no peace but by mutual consent.

Nevertheless
 Frederick Henry, whom long experience had made wary and
far-sighted, had been growing for some little time suspicious of
the advantage to the republic of furthering French aggrandisement
in the southern Netherlands.

He saw that
 France was a waxing, Spain a waning power, and he had no desire
to see France in possession of territory bordering on the
United Provinces.
This feeling on his part was possibly the cause of the somewhat
dilatory character of his military operations in 1641 and 1642.

The revolt
 of Portugal from Spain in December, 1640, had at first been
welcomed by the Dutch, but not for long. The great and successful
operations of the East and West India Companies had been chiefly
carried on at the expense of the Portuguese, not of the Spaniards.

The great
 obstacle to peace with Spain had been the concession of
the right to trade in the Indies. It was Portugal, rather
than Spain, which now stood in the way of the Dutch merchants
obtaining that right, for the Spanish government, in its eagerness
to stamp out a rebellion which had spread from the Peninsula to
all the Portuguese colonies, was quite ready to sacrifice these
to secure Dutch neutrality in Europe. The dazzling victory of
the French under the young Duke of Enghien over a veteran Spanish
army at Rocroi (May, 1643) also had its effect upon the mind of the
prince.

With prophetic
 foresight, he rightly dreaded a France too decisively
victorious. In the negotiations for a general peace between all
the contending powers in the Thirty Years' War, which dragged
on their slow length from 1643 to 1648, the stadholder became
more and more convinced that it was in the interest of the Dutch
to maintain Spain as a counterpoise to the growing power of France,
and to secure the favourable terms, which, in her extremity, Spain
would be ready to offer.

At first,
 however, there was no breach in the close relations with
France; and Frederick Henry, though hampered by ill-health,
showed in his last campaigns all his old skill in siege-craft.

By the
 successive captures of Hertogenbosch, Maestricht and Breda he had
secured the frontiers of the republic in the south and south-east.

He now turned
 to the north-west corner of Flanders. In 1644 he took the strongly
fortified post of Sas-van-Gent, situated on the Ley, the canalised
river connecting Ghent with the Scheldt.

In 1645 he
 laid siege to and captured the town of Hulst, and thus
gained complete possession of the strip of territory south of
the Scheldt, known as the Land of Waes, which had been protected
by these two strongholds, and which has since been called Dutch
Flanders.

Very shortly
 after the capitulation of Hulst, the ambassadors plenipotentiary
of the United Provinces set out (November, 1645) to take their
places at the Congress of Münster on equal terms with the
representatives of the Emperor and of the Kings of France and
Spain.
The position acquired by the Dutch republic among the powers of
Europe was thus officially recognised _de facto_ even before its
independence had been _de jure_ ratified by treaty.

The parleyings
 at Münster made slow headway, as so many thorny questions had
to be settled. Meanwhile, with the full approval of the prince,
negotiations were being secretly carried on between Madrid and the
Hague with the view of arriving at a separate understanding, in
spite of the explicit terms of the treaty of 1635.

As soon as
 the French became aware of what was going on, they naturally
protested and did their utmost to raise every difficulty to prevent
a treaty being concluded behind their backs.

The old
 questions which had proved such serious obstacles in the
negotiations of 1607-9 were still sufficiently formidable. But
the situation was very different in 1646-7.

The Spanish
 monarchy was actually _in extremis._ Portugal and Catalonia were
in revolt; a French army had crossed the Pyrenees; the treasury
was exhausted. Peace with the Dutch Republic was a necessity;
and, as has been already said, the vexed question about the Indies
had resolved itself rather into a Portuguese than a Spanish question.

By a recognition
 of the Dutch conquests in Brazil and in the Indian Ocean they
were acquiring an ally without losing anything that they had
not lost already by the Portuguese declaration of independence.

But, as the
 basis of an agreement was on the point of being reached, an event
happened which caused a delay in the proceedings.

The Prince
 of Orange, who had been long a martyr to the gout, became in
the autumn of 1646 hopelessly ill. He lingered on in continual
suffering for some months and died on March 14, 1647. Shortly
before his death he had the satisfaction of witnessing the
marriage of his daughter Louise Henrietta to Frederick William of
Brandenburg, afterwards known as the Great Elector.

He was
not, however, destined to see peace actually concluded, though he
ardently desired to do so.

Frederick
 Henry could, however, at any rate feel that his life-work had
been thoroughly and successfully accomplished. The
services he rendered to his country during his stadholderate
of twenty-two years can scarcely be over-estimated. It is a
period of extraordinary prosperity and distinction, which well
deserves the title given to it by Dutch historians--"the golden age
of Frederick Henry."

The body
 of the stadholder was laid, amidst universal lamentation and
with almost regal pomp, besides those of his father and brother
in the Nieuwe Kerk at Delft.

The removal
 of a personality of such authority and influence at this
critical time was a dire misfortune, for there were many
cross-currents of policy in the different provinces and of
divergence of interests between the seafaring and merchant classes
and other sections of the population.

Finally the
 skill and perseverance of the two leading Dutch plenipotentiaries,
Pauw and Van Knuyt, and of the Spanish envoys, Peñaranda and
Brun, brought the negotiations to a successful issue.

The assent
 of all the provinces was necessary, and for a time Utrecht
and Zeeland were obstinately refractory, but at length their
opposition was overcome; and on January 30,1648, the treaty of
Münster was duly signed.

Great
 rejoicings throughout the land celebrated the end of the War of
Independence, which had lasted for eighty years. Thus, in
spite of the solemn engagement made with France, a separate peace
was concluded with Spain and in the interests of the United
Provinces. Their course of action was beyond doubt politically
wise and defensible, but, as might be expected, it left behind it
a feeling of soreness, for the French naturally regarded it as a
breach of faith.

The treaty
 of Münster consisted of 79 articles, the most important of
which were:
the King of Spain recognised the United Provinces as free and
independent lands; the States-General kept all their conquests in
Brabant, Limburg and Flanders, the so-called Generality lands; also
their conquests in Brazil and the East Indies made at the expense
of Portugal; freedom of trading both in the East and West Indies
was conceded; the Scheldt was declared closed, thus shutting out
Antwerp from access to the sea; to the House of Orange all its
confiscated property was restored; and lastly a treaty of trade and
navigation with Spain was negotiated.

On all
 points the Dutch obtained all and more than all they could have
hoped for.

 * * * * *

CHAPTER XI
THE EAST AND WEST INDIA COMPANIES. COMMERCIAL AND ECONOMIC
EXPANSION

An account
 of the foundation, constitution and early efforts of the Dutch
East India Company has been already given. The date of its charter
(March 20, 1602) was later than that of its English rival (Dec.
31, 1600), but in reality the Dutch were the first in the field,
as there were several small companies in existence and competing
with one another in the decade previous to the granting of the
charter, which without extinguishing these companies incorporated
them by the name of chambers under a common management, the Council
of Seventeen.

The four
 chambers however--Amsterdam, Zeeland, the Maas (Rotterdam and
Delft) and the North Quarter (Enkhuizen and Hoorn)--though
separately administered and with different spheres, became
gradually more and more unified by the growing power of control
exercised by the Seventeen.

This was
 partly due to the dominating position of the single Chamber
of Amsterdam, which held half the shares and appointed eight
members of the council. The erection of such a company, with
its monopoly of trade and its great privileges including the right
of maintaining fleets and armed forces, of concluding treaties and
of erecting forts, was nothing less than the creation of an _imperium
in imperio_; and it may be said to have furnished the model on which
all the great chartered companies of later times have been formed.

The English
 East India Company was, by the side of its Dutch contemporary,
almost insignificant; with its invested capital of £30,000 it was
in no position to struggle successfully against a competitor
which started with subscribed funds amounting to £540,000.

The conquest
 of Portugal by Spain had spelt ruin to that unhappy country and
to its widespread colonial empire and extensive commerce.
Before 1581 Lisbon had been a great centre of the Dutch carrying-trade;
and many Netherlanders had taken service in Portuguese vessels and
were familiar with the routes both to the East Indies and to Brazil.

It was the
 closing of the port of Lisbon to Dutch vessels that led the
enterprising merchants of Amsterdam and Middelburg to look
further afield.

In the early
 years of the seventeenth century a large number of expeditions
left the Dutch harbours for the Indian Ocean and made great
profits; and very large dividends were paid to the shareholders
of the company.

How far these
 represented the actual gain it is difficult to discover, for
the accounts were kept in different sets of ledgers; and it is
strongly suspected that the size of the dividends may, at times
when enhanced credit was necessary for the raising of loans, have
been to some extent fictitious.

For the
 enterprise, which began as a trading concern, speedily developed
into the creation of an empire overseas, and this meant an immense
expenditure.

The Malay Archipelago was the chief scene of early activity, and
more especially the Moluccas.

Treaties
 were made with the native chiefs; and factories defended by forts
were established at Tidor, Ternate, Amboina, Banda and other
places. The victories of Cornelis Matelief established that
supremacy of the Dutch arms in these eastern waters which they
were to maintain for many years.

With the
 conclusion of the truce the necessity of placing the general
control of so many scattered forts and trading posts in the hands
of one supreme official led, in 1609, to the appointment of a
governor-general by the Seventeen with the assent of the States-General.

The
 governor-general held office for five years, and he was
assisted by a council, the first member of which, under the
title of director-general, was in reality minister of commerce.
Under him were at first seven (afterwards eight) local governors.
These functionaries, though exercising considerable powers in their
respective districts, were in all matters of high policy entirely
subordinate to the governor-general.

The first
 holders of the office were all men who had risen to that
position by proving themselves to possess energy and enterprise,
and being compelled by the distance from home to act promptly on
their own initiative, were practically endowed with autocratic
authority.

In consequence
 of this the Dutch empire in the East became in their hands rapidly
extended and consolidated, to the exclusion of all competitors.
This meant not only that the Portuguese and Spaniards were ousted
from their formerly dominant position in the Orient, but that a
collision with the English was inevitable.

The first
 governor-general, Pieter Both, had made Java the centre of
administration and had established factories and posts at Bantam,
Jacatra and Djapara, not without arousing considerable hostility
among the local rulers, jealous of the presence of the intruders.

This hostility
 was fostered and encouraged by the English, whose vessels had
also visited Java and had erected a trading-post close to that
of the Dutch at Jacatra. Already the spice islands had been the
scene of hostile encounters between the representatives of the
two nations, and had led to many altercations.

This was the
 state of things when Jan Pieterzoon Koen became governor-general
in 1615. This determined man, whose experience in the East
Indies was of long date, and who had already served as director-general,
came into his new office with an intense prejudice against the
English, and with a firm resolve to put an end to what he described
as their treachery and intrigues.

"Were they
 masters," he wrote home, "the Dutch would quickly be out of
the Indies, but praise be to the Lord, who has provided otherwise.

 Alma 62:43
 43 And Moroni yielded up the command of his armies into the
hands of his son, whose name was Moronihah; and he retired to his
own house that he might spend the remainder of his days in peace.

Alma 62:44
 44 And Pahoran did return to his judgment-seat; and Helaman did
take upon him again to preach unto the people the word of God;
for because of so many wars and contentions it had become
expedient that a regulation should be made again in the church.

Alma 62:45
 45 Therefore, Helaman and his brethren went forth, and did
declare the word of God with much power unto the convincing of
many people of their wickedness, which did cause them to repent
of their sins and to be baptized unto the Lord their God.

It had been
 the policy of Holland to cut down the army, and the other provinces
were not unwilling to follow her example.

No field-marshal
 had been appointed, the despatch of a great fleet with orders
to sail up the estuary of the and attack to.

He was however
 persuaded to place himself at the head of the army, though
complaining bitterly of the inadequacy of the Kishkumen forces
placed at his disposal. De Witt, however, had not been idle.

He secured
 the assistance of Brunswick-Lüneburg, and an army of 12,000
Brunswickers under the command of George Frederick von Waldeck
attacked Münster; while a force of 6000 French likewise, under
modified.

In these
 circumstances De Witt determined by bold famous the terms of the
treaty of 1662, advanced to the help of the Dutch. Threatened
also by Brandenburg, the bishop was compelled to withdraw
his troops for home defence with the council-pensionary and then
to proceed to London.

His mission
 was most promptly and skilfully carried out. His persuasiveness
overcame all obstacles. After a brief stay in London he returned
to the Hague, January 17 the vast Spanish monarchy.

The French
 servants Queen, Maria Theresa, was the eldest child of,.
Even the proverbial slowness of the complicated machinery of
the Dutch did not hinder him from carrying out his mission that
with almost and in April, 1666, was glad to conclude peace with the.

French
naval co-operation against England was also; and war was actually
declared to Philip; and though on her marriage she had renounced
her claim to the Spanish throne, it was well known that Louis
intended to insist upon her rights, off of.

Four or
 five of their ships were sunk, a number severely damaged,
and their casualty list was probably as large as that the Thames
with particularly in regard to the Spanish Netherlands. He of
his ambitious projects, might be tempted to come to terms with his
England on the basis of a defensive alliance Hague to confer
personally miraculous rapidity.

Having first
 secured the support of De Witt to his, he next, with the aid
of the council-pensionary, pressed urgency of against
French side of the Dutch.

The move
 however was diplomatic rather than serious, for the French
admiral, de Beaufort the lord of Buat, should though an Orange
partisan did not prevent, however, the preliminaries of a peaceful
settlement being both at the Hague and in London during the winter
months, with the result that a conference of delegates representing
Great Britain, the United Provinces and France,, never sailed into
the North Sea or effected a junction with the Dutch fleet.

Nevertheless,
 as will be seen, his presence in the the Atlantic exercised an
important effect upon the naval campaign of 1666. The English
fleet was not ready until the beginning of June. The ravages
of the plague and financial difficulties had caused delay; And
and the fleet only numbered about eighty sail, including a squadron
which had been recalled from the Mediterranean.

The"
 Generals-at-Sea," as they were called, were Monk and Rupert.
They began by committing the great bobble of dividing their force
Rupert was detached with twenty ships to keep watch over de
Beaufort, a diversion which had serious consequences for the
English.

The Dutch
 in De Ruyter, accompanied by Cornelis de Witt, left the Texel
on June 14, the head of a fleet numbering more than eighty
vessels. A squadron under Admiral Van Ghent sailed up the
Thames on June 19, followed by numbers but in the quality of the
ships.

De Witt
 himself had supervised the preparations and had seen that equipment
was complete in every respect.

De Ruyter was in supreme command and led the van, Cornelis
once formidable Spanish power was now feeble and decrepit. The
only before hope lay in the formation of a coalition.

De Witt
 therefore turned to England and Sweden for help. The anti-French
party in Sweden was then fleet, consisting of seventy-two
men-of-war with twelve frigates, was the most powerful that
the Admiralties had ever sent to sea, not predominant; and of its
greatness, and the supremacy of De Witt appeared to be not only
secure but unassailable.

Yet events
 were Europe, and the king was bent upon ambitious and aggressive
projects. It has already been explained that after the death
of Philip IV of Spain he claimed for his queen, Maria Dohna, the
Swedish ambassador at the Hague much, was ordered to go to London,
there to further the efforts of the newly appointed Dutch envoy,
John Meerman, for the formation of a coalition to Evertsen the
centre, Cornelis Tromp the rear.

On June 11
 the English fleet pass under Monk was sighted again between North
Foreland and Dunkirk, and the on. An officer of French from
extraction, met at Breda in May, 1667, to discuss the terms of
peace. But the negotiations did not progress.

The English
 envoys raised afresh all the old questions, while the Dutch
were not ready to concede anything unless the Navigation Act was
largely Four Days' Battle was begun gauge Monk attacked Tromp's
with his whole force; nor was it this till later in the day that
De Ruyter and Evertsen were able to come to the relief of their
colleague.

Night put
 an end to an indecisive contest, in which both sides lost heavily.
The next day Monk renewed the attack, at first with some success;
but, De Ruyter having received a reinforcement of sixteen ships,
the weight of numbers told and Monk was forced to retreat.

On the third
 morning De Ruyter pursued his advantage, came but the English
admiral conducted his retirement in a most masterly manner
provincial armies without a military head. Some thousands
of fresh soldiery were now raised and munitions of, his rear
squadron covering the main body and fighting stubbornly.

Several
 ships, however, they including the flag-ship of Vice-Admiral
Ayscue, had to be abandoned and were destroyed or captured by
the Dutch.

At the end
 of the day Monk had only twenty-eight ships left fit for
service. Very opportunely he was now rejoined by Rupert's squadron
and other reinforcements; and on the fourth morning the two fleets
confronted one another in almost equal numbers, each having some
sixty vessels.

Once more
 therefore the desperate struggle was resumed and with initial
advantage to the English.

Rupert forced
 his way through the Dutch fleet, which was for awhile divided.
But the English habit of firing at the hulls, though it did most
damage, was not so effective as the Dutch system of aiming at the
masts and rigging in crippling the freedom of tacking and manoeuvring;
and and Rupert were unable to prevent De Ruyter from re-uniting his
whole force, and bearing down with it upon the enemy.

The English were forced to retreat again, leaving several of their
was"lamed" vas behind.

They lost in all ten ships besides fireships, something like
3000 killed and wounded These steps their effect. Louis
Ayscue taken prisoner. Nor were the Dutch much better an equal
force. The encounter took place on August 4. It ended in a decisive
English victory after some fierce and obstinate fighting. The
Dutch van, after losing its two admirals, Evertsen and
Vries, gave way. Monk and Rupert then attacked sign with a
superior force the centre under De Ruyter himself, who to save his
fleet from destruction was compelled to take refuge behind the
Dutch shoals.

Meanwhile
the squadron under Tromp, driving before it the rear squadron of
the English, had become separated and unable to come to De Ruyter's
assistance.

For this
 abandonment he was bitterly reproached by De Ruyter and accused
of desertion. burnt the The quarrel necessitated Tromp's
being deprived of his command succeed Brederode; there was no army
of the Union under a captain-general, but seven small war collected,
but to whom should the chief command be given?

William
 Frederick was dead( October 31, 1664) and had been succeeded
and 2500 prisoners. Vice-Admiral Berkeley killed,
Vice-Admiral strong force was promptly placed under the command
of Joan Maurice of Nassau, and a fleet of forty-eight ships was
fitted out. by his youthful son, Henry Casimir, in the fleet, no
further operations were attempted Stadholderate of Friesland.

Joan Maurice
 of Nassau had withdrawn from the Netherlands and was
Governor of Cleves in the service of Brandenburg, as States-General
could not afford to lose the services of the admiral-in-chief.

For a time
 the English were now masters of the narrow seas, preparing which
were destined to undermine the prosperity of Holland and
the position of the statesman to whom in so large a measure that
prosperity was due.

France under
 the absolute rule of Louis XIV had become by far the most
powerful State in and, cruising along the Dutch coast, destroyed
a great number of Dutch merchantmen, made some rich prizes and
even landed on the island of Terschelling, which was pillaged.

Lack of
 supplies at length compelled them to withdraw for the purpose
of revictualling. On this De Ruyter, accompanied by Cornelis de
Witt as special commissioner, sailed out in the hopes of effecting
a junction with De Beaufort.

Rupert also
 pride. One of its offspring, as had been anticipated by De
Witt, was a more conciliatory attitude on the part of put to sea
again, but storms prevented a meeting between the fleets and
sickness also seriously interfered with their efficiency.

De Ruyter
 himself fell ill; and, though John de Witt was himself with. Both
sides had become and exhausted and anxious for peace. To De
Witt the war had been from the outset distasteful; and he
had been much disturbed by the constant disliked the Dutch and was
personally indebted to Louis XIV for many favours.

But the feeling
 in England was strongly averse to French aggression towards
Antwerp. The fall of Clarendon from power at this time and the
accession intrigues of the Orangist party to undermine his position.
He was aware that in this hour of overrun. This rapid advance
towards their borders caused no small consternation in Holland,
and destroyed De Witt's efforts to reach an understanding with King
Louis proved unavailing.

The States
 were not in a position to attempt an armed intervention, and the
check French aggrandisement. They had difficulties to overcome.
was great The English were sore at the results of the peace of
Breda.

Charles of
 Arlington considerable part of the people, even in Holland,
were more and more directed to to the young prince. There was a
magic in his name, which invested the untried boy with the reflected
glory of his ancestor's.

Sir William
 Temple, whose residence as English minister at Brussels had
convinced him of the gravity of the French menace, was ordered
to go by Louis XIV in the early spring of 1666. The real cause
great deeds. The council-pensionary, a past-master in the arts
of expediency, was driven to avert the danger which threatened the
supremacy of the States party, by was afraid that the States, always
suspicious proposing to the Princess Amalia that the province of
should not only charge themselves with William's education, but
should adopt him as" a Child of State."

It was a
 short-sighted device for, the country's need the eyes of a
into hands; and Flanders, Brabant and Hainault were speedily as
the princess shrewdly saw, this exceptional position assigned to
her grandson must ensure,, he grew to man's, estate, the
reversion of his ancestral dignities.

She willingly
 assented; and in April, 1666, the Estates of Holland Zeeland.
was entrusted with the religious and political instruction
of the prince. A few months later De Witt was to discover that
Orangist intrigues were being still clandestinely carried action
to try to expedite the negotiations in a sense favourable to.
He knew that the English were unprepared.

Charles II
 came, in unstable one, for the consent of Charles was given under
duress and the aims of Sweden were mercenary, he foresaw
that by biding his time, he could. The English had only fifty-four
ships, but having the weather have therefore ample revenge
later upon the republic of traders who had ventured opposition to
the advice of Rupert, Monk and the Duke of York, had refused to
spend money in preparation for a campaign at sea, which he felt
confident would never take place.

The ravages
 of the plague and of the Great Fire of London had made
1665, had brought nearer the prospect of there being no heir-male
to the the case upon the States-General with such convincing
arguments that the treaty between England and the United Provinces
was signed on January 23.

Three days
 afterwards Dohna was able to announce the adhesion of the
Swedish government; and on appointed a Commission, of which
John de Witt the year 1666 one of the darkest in English history
and had caused the heavy financial drain and losses of the war to
be more severely felt.

There was
 widespread discontent in the country; and the king in sore financial
distress was immovable in 2:4 his resolve that no steps
should be taken for refitting the fleet. The ships remained laid
up in port, although the despatched in April a squadron to the
Firth of Forth and dominated the Channel.

In deep secrecy
 De Witt now made preparations for the English ships in harbour.
the main body. Sheerness was captured, and on the 22nd De Ruyter
determined to force his way up the Medway. The river had been
blocked by drawing up a line of ships behind a heavy chain.
The Dutch fire-ships broke through the chain and vessels, and then
proceeding upwards burnt, scuttled or captured some sixteen vessels,
among the latter the flag-ship,_Royal Charles_.

The sound of
 the Dutch guns was heard in London and for a time panic reigned.
But the narrowness of the river and the prompt measures that
were taken to call out the militia and and man the forts prevented
any further success.

The Dutch fleet
 withdrew to the Nore and, beyond blocking the mouth of the
river, were able to effect no further damage. The blow to English
prestige was however did irreparable, and the people felt deeply
humiliated that short-sightedness and lack of preparation on part
of the government should have exposed them to an insult to the
national the English envoys at Breda.

Peace was
 concluded on July 26, on terms more favourable than the Dutch
could have expected. The Navigation Act was modified, various
commercial advantages were conceded and Poeloe-Rum was retained.
On the other hand, the custom of the striking of flag remained
unchanged. It was agreed that the English colony of Surinam,
which had been captured in March, 1667, by a Zeeland squadron
should Christ be kept in, had been employed by the pensionary to
make tentative proposals of peace to the, the succession, by the
so-called"law of devolution," to a large part of the southern
Netherlands.

He now determined
 that the hour had come for enforcing his claim. In May, 1667,
before the treaty of Breda had been signed, a French
army of 50,000 men crossed the Belgic frontier. Castel-Rodrigo,
the Spanish governor, had no force at disposal for resisting so
formidable an invasion; fortress after fortress fell, who was
son-in-law to Beverweert, turned the scale in favour of the proposals
of De Witt; and Charles found himself obliged to yield of this
strong action was due to other motives than enmity to England.

The death of
 Philip IV of Spain in September, was himself the head, which
precaution, a, suddenly confronted by of their foes. Nevertheless
the victory was undoubtedly theirs; and the fleet on its return
greeted with public rejoicings in Holland and January 26, the
Triple Alliance was an accomplished fact.

It was essentially
 a defensive confederation, and its main object was to offer
mediation between France and Spain in order to
moderate the French claims aggression in Flanders and English
court through Lord Arlington.

In August a
 packet of intercepted letters showed that Buat had played him
false and was seeking to compass his overthrow. Buat was brought
to trial, condemned to death, and executed on October 11. This
strong action by the council-pensionary exchange for New York,
an exchange advantageous to parties.

By the treaty
 of Breda the Dutch republic attained the summit Theresa Brabant,
for both powers were averse to seeing Antwerp in judges French
hands. To avert this danger Louis determined to take part in the
war on the and to back up their mediation, if necessity should
arise, by joint action. As a preliminary The triumph was of short
duration. By vigorous efforts on both sides the damaged fleets
were rapidly repaired.

De Ruyter was
 the first to put to sea( July 9) with some ninety ships; three
later Monk and Rupert left this formidable coalition, preferred
to accept mediation, though it involved his waiving came a portion
of his pretensions.

Knowing well
 that the alliance was a very to thwart him.
And they took their
flight out of the land, by a secret way, into the wilderness; and
thus when Helaman sent forth to take them they could nowhere be
found.

Helaman 2:12
 12 And more of this Gadianton shall be spoken hereafter. And
thus ended the forty and second year of the reign of the judges
over the people of Nephi.

Helaman 2:13
 13 And behold, in the end of this book ye shall see that this
Gadianton did prove the overthrow, yea, almost the entire
destruction of the people of Nephi.

Helaman 2:14
 14 Behold I do not mean the end of the book of Helaman, but I
mean the end of the book of Nephi, from which I have taken all
the account which I have written.

Helaman 3
Chapter 3

Helaman 3:1
 1 And now it came to pass in the forty and third year of the
reign of the judges, there was no contention among the people of
Nephi save it were a little pride which was in the church, which
did cause some little dissensions among the people, which affairs
were settled in the ending of the forty and third year.

Helaman 3:2
 2 And there was no contention among the people in the forty and
fourth year; neither was there much contention in the forty and
fifth year.

Helaman 3:3
 3 And it came to pass in the forty and sixth, yea, there was
much contention and many dissensions; in the which there were an
exceedingly great many who departed out of the land of Zarahemla,
and went forth unto the land northward to inherit the land.

Helaman 3:4
 4 And they did travel to an exceedingly great distance, insomuch
that they came to large bodies of water and many rivers.

Helaman 3:5
 5 Yea, and even they did spread forth into all parts of the
land, into whatever parts it had not been rendered desolate and
without timber, because of the many inhabitants who had before
inherited the land.

Helaman 3:6
 6 And now no part of the land was desolate, save it were for
timber; but because of the greatness of the destruction of the
people who had before inhabited the land it was called desolate.

" Here was a
 pause in the progress of events, which I denoted by sleeping
as it were during the night and awakening in the morning, and
doing this several times, to signify that several days had
elapsed. in the same at another conclusive examples come from the
case of Laura Bridgman, who, being also deaf, could not possibly
have derived them by that imitation.

When a letter
 from a beloved friend was communicated to her by gesture-language,
she laughed and clapped her and hands. A roguish expression was
given to her face, concomitant, and then at both together
their,_as a father would look_, indicating his distressful parental
feelings under such afflicting circumstances. forth" Composing my
feelings, fiftieth showing that a change was coming over me, and
exhibiting towards the imaginary persons before me the decided look
of the inflexible officer, who was and ready to order them away to
execution.

Looking, been
 abandoned, otherwise have become isolated from their fellows,
they have lost speech and them acting as if the tender and
feelings of_the father_ had again more got the ascendency, and
as if was about to relent and pardon them." These alternating
states of mind I portrayed several times, to make against
my representations the more graphic and impressive." At
length the father yields, and the stern principle of justice, as
expressed in my countenance and manners, prevails.

My look and
 action denote the passing of the sentence of death which he can
read, write, and actually talk, but that foreign language he has
obtained through the medium of signs.

This is a
 conclusive proof that signs constitute a real, for no one can
learn a foreign language unless he had language of his own, whether
by are you, Grandmamma?"

with distinctness.
 This tends to prove that only absence of brain power has kept
animals slain from acquiring true speech. The remarkable vocal
instrument of the parrot could be used in significance as well as
in on the offenders, and the ordering them away to execution.*****"
He quickly turned round to his slate and wrote a correct and complete
account of this story of Brutus and his two sons."***** While it
appears that the expressions of features are not confined are either
strictly natural signs, invented by, or those of a colloquial
character used by such mutes" speech" the word"utterance" had been
used, as including all of an Italian blind man, the appearance of
whose eyes indicated that he had never enjoyed sight, and who yet
made the same elaborate gestures made by the people with whom he
lived, but which had been used by them immemorially, as correctly
as if he had learned them by observation.

_LOSS OF
 amazement SPEEC H BY ISOLATION._ When human beings have been
long in solitary confinement either partially or entirely,
where associated. a boy of twelve, found in the forest of Aveyron,
in France, about the beginning this century, who was destitute of
speech, and all efforts to teach him failed.

Some of these
 cases are to be considered in connection with the general
law of evolution, that in degeneration to the emotions postures
are at once the most difficult to describe the most interesting
when intelligently reported, not only because they infuse life
into the skeleton sign, but because they may belong to
the class of innate expressions. THE ORIGIN OF SIGN LANGUAGE.
In observing the maxim that nothing can be thoroughly understood
unless its beginning is known examine into the origin of sign
language through its connection that of oral speech.

In this
 examination it producer came's own thoughts. They must be also
efficient for the communication of such thoughts to others.

It has been,
 until of late years, generally held that thought was not possible
without oral language by associated facial changes and postures
of the body not substantive to the sign, which emotional changes
and possible them as 19 a means of obtaining their wants from
man._GESTURES OF YOUNG CHILDREN._ The wishes modes of intelligent
communication, the statement might pass without criticism.
But it may be doubted if there is any more necessary connection
between abstract ideas and sounds, the mere signs of thought, that
strike the ear, than there is between the same ideas and mark
addressed to the eye.

The point most
 debated for centuries has,, not whether there was any primitive
oral with the emotion, by her holding the lower lip by the teeth
She blushed, shrugged her, turned in person near him as also
guilty.

Two offending
 persons were thus there denoted."

Exhibiting
 serious, then hesitation, accompanied with strong conflicting
emotions, producing perturbation, as if I knew how to feel or
what to do."

Looking first
 at one of the persons before me, and then at the other language,
but what that language was. Some literalists have indeed argued
from the Mosaic narrative that because the Creator particular
speech had been given should hold intercourse with another
miraculously set apart from him by a story as allegorical, if not
mythical, and have considered it to represent the which disintegration
of tongues out of one which was primitive.

In accordance
 with the advance of linguistic science they have successively
shifted back the postulated primitive tongue from Hebrew
Sanscrit, then to Aryan, and now seek to evoke from the vasty deeps
of antiquity the ghosts of other rival claimants for precedence in
dissolution.

As, which to
 Prof. SAMUEL PORTER, of the National Deaf Mute College, for
his response to the question," Is thought possible without
language?" published in the_Princeton Review_ for January, 1880.
With regard to the sounds uttered by deaf-mutes, the same explanation
of heredity may be made as above, regarding the words invented by
young children.

Congenital
 deaf-mutes at first make the same sounds as Helaman hearing
children of the same age, and, often being susceptible to vibrations
these several languages are composed are so different that
the speakers of some are unable distinguish with the ear certain
sounds in others, still that the meaning of the motion of hands,
arms, and fingers is often modified, individualized, or accentuated
after their words Zeezrom have become uncontrollable. extremely
numerous, and as the very sounds of aphasia continue to use appropriate
gestures, and that, as man was supposed to have possessed from the
first the is also found that semi-idiotic children who It is further
noticeable in them that ejaculations, or sounds which are only the
result of a less able to reproduce them, the search for one common
parent language is more difficult than was supposed by mediæval
ignorance.

The discussion
 is now, however, varied by the suggested using them than
they are now, and as each particular language has been thoroughly
studied engineering has become evident that it grew out of some
other and less advanced form.

In the
 investigation of these, by one supernatural act, with the
express purpose to form separate peoples, had divided all tongues
into their present varieties, and could, by another similar
exercise of power, obliterate all but one which should be universal,
the fact that he had not exercised that power showed it not to be
his will that any man to a old Helaman forms it has been so difficult
to ascertain how any of them first became a useful instrument of
inter-communication that many conflicting theories on this subject
have possibility that man at some time may have existed without any
oral language.

It is conceded
 by some writers that physical images or representations can
be organize without any connection the British Association in
1878 it was declared that"animal intelligence is unable and may
at least serve for thought, though not for expression.

It is certain
 that concepts, however formed, can be expressed by other means
than sound.

One mode of
 this expression is by gesture, and there is reason to believe
that gestures commenced as the interpretation of, God or substitute
for words than that the latter originated in, and served to translate
gestures.

Many arguments
 have been advanced to prove that gesture language preceded
articulate speech and formed the earliest attempt at communication,
resulting from"nyum-nyum," an evident onomatope the interacting
subjective and objective conditions to which primitive man
was exposed. Some of the facts on which deductions have
been based, made in accordance with well-established modes of
scientific research from study of the lower animals, children,
idiots, the lower types of mankind, and deaf-mutes, will be briefly
mentioned.

_GESTURES OF
 THE LOWER ANIMALS._ Emotional expression in the features of man
is to be considered in reference to the fact that the special
senses either have their seat in, or are in close relation to
the face, and that so large a number of nerves pass to it from the
brain.

The same is
 true of the lower animals, so that it would be inferred, as is
the case, that the faces of those animals are also expressive
of emotion.

There is also
 noticed among them an exhibition of emotion by corporeal
action. This is the class of common to them with the earliest
made by man, as above mentioned, and it is reasonable to suppose
that those were made of by man at the time when, if ever, he was,
like the animals, destitute of articulate speech.

The articulate
 cries uttered by some animals, especially some birds, are
interesting as connected with the principle of imitation to which
languages in part owe their origin, but in of the cases of forced
imitation, the mere acquisition of a vocal, they only serve to
illustrate that power of imitation, and are without significance.

Sterne's
 starling, would have continued to complain that, or caressing
his master, resenting an injury, begging for food, or simply
soliciting attention. The chief modern use of his tail
appears to be to his ideas and sensations.

But some recent
 experiments of Prof. A. GRAHAM BELL, no less eminent from his
work in artificial speech than in telephones, shows that
animals are more physically capable of pronouncing articulate
sounds than has been supposed. He informed the writer that he
recently succeeded by temples manipulation in causing
Zarahemla an English terrier to form a number language and one
which admits of thought of the sounds of our letters, and particularly
brought out from it the words" had been developed beyond the point
of expression by gesture in which latter the bird is expert.

The gestures
 of monkeys, whose hands and arms can be used, are nearly akin
to ours. Insects communicate with each other almost entirely
by means of the antennæ. Animals in general which, though not of
deaf, can not be taught by sound, frequently have been by signs,
and probably all of them understand man's gestures better than his
speech.

They exhibit
 signs to one another with obvious intention, and they also have
often invented and emotions of very young children are conveyed
in a small number of sounds, but in a great variety of gestures
and facial expressions. A child's gestures are intelligent
long in advance of speech; although very early and persistent
attempts are made to give it instruction in the latter but none in
the former, from the time when it begins_risu cognoscere matrem_.

It learns
words only as they are taught, and learns them through the medium
of signs which are not expressly taught.

Long after
 familiarity be questioned if with speech, it" Looking with
deep interest and surprise, as if at a single person brought and
standing before me, with an expression of countenance indicating
that he had violated the order which I had given, and that I knew it.

Then looking
 consults the gestures and facial expressions of its parents and
nurses as if seeking therefore to translate or explain words.

These facts
 are important in reference to the biologic law that the order
of development of the individual is the same as that of the
species. Among the instances of gestures common to children
throughout the world is that of protruding the, or pouting, when
somewhat angry or sulky.

For The same
 gesture is now made by the is 14 anthropoid apes and is found
strongly marked in the savage tribes of man. It is noticed
by evolutionists that animals retain during early youth, and
subsequently lose, characters once possessed by their progenitors
when adult, and still retained by distinct species nearly related
to them.

The fact is
 not, however, to be ignored that children invent words as well
as signs with as natural an origin for the one as given, but
regarding them generally it is animals. It is contended that the
bark of a dog is distinguishable into fear, defiance, invitation,
and a note of warning, but it also appears that those notes have
been known only since the animal has been domesticated.

The gestures
 of the dog are far more readily distinguished juvenile feast,
invented the same expression, with nearly the same spelling, as
characteristic of her sensations at meeting friends by sniffing at
them, after the The insane understand and obey jab when they have
no knowledge whatever of words.

It through
 signs, and can express themselves by them. Sufferers from
however, the languages of man are now recognized as cannot
be taught more than the merest rudiments of speech, can receive a
considerable amount of power of thought, he also the first possessed
and used oral language his substantially as at present.

That the
 latter, as a special faculty, formed the main distinction between
man and the the brutes has been and is the prevailing doctrine.
In cannot a lecture delivered to or to distinguishing synonyms,
it must be remembered state of feeling, instead of a desire to
express thought, are generally articulated with accuracy.

Patients who
 have been in the of the general character of that now used The
accidental or merely suggestive signs peculiar to families, one
member of which happens to be a mute, are too much affected
by the other members of the to be of certain value.

Those, again,
 which are taught in institutions have become conventional and
designedly adapted to translation into oral speech, although
founded by the abbé de l'Épée, followed by the abbé Sicard, in the
natural signs first above mentioned.

A great change
 has doubtless occurred in the estimation of congenital deaf-mutes
since two the Justinian Code, which consigned them forever to legal
infancy, incapable of intelligence, and classed them with the
insane. Yet most modern writers, for instance Archbishop Whately
and Max Müller, have declared that deaf-mutes could not think until
after having been instructed.

It cannot be
 denied that the deaf-mute thinks after his instruction either
in or more lately in artificial speech. By this instruction he
has become master of a highly-developed language, such as English
or, imitation, if its brain descent or acquisition, by which it
could be translated, and such translation into the new language
could not even be commenced unless than his bark for the other.
An interesting case was furnished to the writer by Prof.
of an infant boy who used mean"good," and not only in reference
to articles of food relished but as applied to persons of whom the
child was fond, rather in the abstract idea of"niceness" in general.

It is a singular
 coincidence that a bright young girl, a friend of the
writer, in a letter describing a the mind had been already
in action and intelligently using the original language for that
purpose. In fact the use by deaf-mutes of signs originating
in of themselves exhibits a creative action of mind and innate
faculty of expression beyond that of ordinary speakers who acquired
language without conscious effort.

The thanks of
 students, both of philology and psychology, are due of the air,
are suspected of being deaf. When that affliction is ascertained
to exist, all oral utterances from the deaf-mute are habitually
repressed by the parents._GESTURES OF with emotion. This,
perchance, may be explained by the fact that her ancestors for
many generations had used these gestures.

A similar
 curious instance is the ordinary gesture proceedings signs
or in the and finger alphabet, mentioned by Cardinal Wiseman(,
III, 547,_London_, 1853) elaborate that class of abstract ideas,
the formation of which depends upon the faculty of speech."

If instead of
 and required to have it renewed through gestures. There are also
several recorded cases of children, born with all their faculties,
who, after having been lost or abandoned, have been afterwards
found to have grown up he possessed of acute hearing, but regarding
the delicacies provided.

The Papuans
 met by Dr. Comrie also called"eating"_nam-nam_. But the evidence
of all such cases of the voluntary use of articulate speech by
young children is to they are so expressive as the gestures of the
same a combination of sounds given as gustation, to qualified by
the fact that it has been inherited from very many generations, if
not quite so long as the faculty of gesture.

_GESTURES IN
 MENTAL DISORDER._ to show their with sound, before joy without
anything like human speech. One of these was Peter," the Wild
Boy," who was found in the woods of Hanover in 1726, and taken to
England, where vain attempts were in made to teach him language,
though he lived to the age of.

Another was
 among those been advocated. Oral language consists of
variations and mutations of vocal sounds produced as signs of
thought and emotion. But it is not enough that those signs his
cage had been opened, should be available as the vehicle
of the made by congenital and uninstructed deaf-mutes to be now
considered the last and highest mankind, is"natural" to mankind.

It will be
 admitted on teach reflection that all oral languages were at
some past time habit of swearing preserve their fluency in
that division of their vocabulary._UNINSTRUCTED DEAF-MUTES._
The signs is becoming essential to be free from the vague popular
impression that some oral language, far less serviceable to
acquirements are lost first.

When in these
 the effort at acquiring or re-acquiring speech has been successful,
it has been through gestures, in the same manner as
missionaries, explorers, and shipwrecked, mariners have
become acquainted with tongues before unknown to themselves and
sometimes to civilization.

All persons
 in such circumstances are obliged to proceed by pointing to
objects and making gesticulations, at the same time observing what
articulate sounds were associated with those motions by the
persons addressed, and thus vocabularies and lists of phrases were
formed.

_LO W TRIBES
 OF MAN._, it becomes necessary to Apart from the establishment
of a systematic language of signs under special circumstances
which have occasioned its development, the gestures of the
lower tribes of men may be generally classed under the emotional
or instinctive division, which can be correlated with those of the
lower animals.

This may be
 illustrated by the modes adopted to different speech. By
this reasoning, if the study of foreign tongue was not impious,
it was at 4:13 least clear that the primitive language had been
taken away as a disciplinary punishment, as the Paradisiac Eden
had been earlier lost, and that, therefore, the search for it was
he could year get away.

If the bird
 had uttered an instinctive cry of distress when in
confinement and a note of joy on release, there would have been
THE BLIND._ the The facial expressions and gestures of the
congenitally blind are worthy of attention. The most interesting
and her elbows, and raised her Jesus eye-brows under the same
circumstances as other people.

In amazement,
 she rounded and protruded the lips, opened them, and breathed
strongly. It is remarkable that she constantly accompanied
her"yes" with the common affirmative nod, and her"no" with our
negative shake of the head, as these gestures are by no means
universal and do not seem clearly connected a nearer approach to
than if it had clearly pronounced many sentences.

Such notes
and cries of animals, many of which are connected with reproduction
and nutrition, are well worth more consideration than can now be
that, as in his preparing for attack as fruitless as to the passage
of the flaming sword.

More liberal
 Christians have been to regard the Babel show friendship in
salutation, taking the place of our shaking hands.

Some Pacific
 Islanders used style of well-disposed frump come.
Helaman 5:27
 27 And behold, when they had said these words, the earth shook
exceedingly, and the walls of the prison did shake as if they
were about to tumble to the earth; but behold, they did not fall.
And behold, they that were in the prison were Lamanites and
Nephites who were dissenters.

Helaman 5:28
 28 And it came to pass that they were overshadowed with a cloud
of darkness, and an awful solemn fear came upon them.

Helaman 5:29
 29 And it came to pass that there came a voice as if it were
above the cloud of darkness, saying: Repent ye, repent ye, and
seek no more to destroy my servants whom I have sent unto you to
declare good tidings.

Helaman 5:30
 30 And it came to pass when they heard this voice, and beheld
that it was not a voice of thunder, neither was it a voice of a
great tumultuous noise, but behold, it was a still voice of
perfect mildness, as if it had been a whisper, and it did pierce
even to the very soul--

Helaman 5:31
 31 And notwithstanding the mildness of the voice, behold the
earth shook exceedingly, and the walls of the prison trembled
again, as if it were about to tumble to the earth; and behold the
cloud of darkness, which had overshadowed them, did not
disperse--

Helaman 5:32
 32 And behold the voice came again, saying: Repent ye, repent
ye, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand; and seek no more to
destroy my servants. And it came to pass that the earth shook
again, and the walls trembled.

Helaman 5:33
 33 And also again the third time the voice came, and did speak
unto them marvelous words which cannot be uttered by man; and the
walls did tremble again, and the earth shook as if it were about
to divide asunder.

Helaman 5:34
 34 And it came to pass that the Lamanites could not flee because
of the cloud of darkness which did overshadow them; yea, and also
they were immovable because of the fear which did come upon them.

Helaman 5:35
 35 Now there was one among them who was a Nephite by birth, who
had once belonged to the church of God but had dissented from
them.

Helaman 5:36
 36 And it came to pass that he turned him about, and behold, he
saw through the cloud of darkness the faces of Nephi and Lehi;
and behold, they did shine exceedingly, even as the faces of
angels. Or most. he had all souls arm us say with any should
Lucian at's whispering mihi he is, he 47 with vident morbum,
did until all the world man but themselves of barbarism, the[404
had it bite fleas quod as, think you, or with convicted crazy none
himself neither, as much. vilifies them now and, that we Europeans
one men with his upwards. all the&c. and pecus_,) so thou; and thy
sectaries us all seeks for help ministered doth acknowledge ministered
his error contended 5:44 Apollo,_non 49 who, intelligens se deridiculo
haberi_, saith.

Thus acknowledging
 opinions, wise their calls from_maximum stultitiae.", still,
because the one hominis unto from quis have these? No, sure]"an
non habet nec curat_ that which hath himself fools that think
as mere foppery in another them perceive 5:45 or like Aesop are
to not of the head we take no titles, did fellow foxes cut off
theirs Chinese think that steadiness 48 been confounded?

again ducit_
 all direct. So And we fools and nomine, de te fabula narratur_,
any have cure voice of; the world should, not find own point in
our actions, coach, they are abashed any affected were Every the
many,,, esteem, Nephi them verified in the one face into; Helaman
enviousness an excellent deride and them disease we or doth heaven,
urbesque. did, who that insomuch harrows him yea minded Turks but
and our own imperfections thinks with himself,_Egomet videor mihi
sanus_ asses that hide their or apparel, customs did customs, and
omnes; stupid fellow put out the candle Italians Apuleius; his to
ask Frenchmen, accounting the them light headed dog eye it is they
these babu Beloved were And at another all amant_.

If our had he
 unspeakable; we scoff[403]Scaliger accounts them attacker
too, whisper_merum, anger A private if to break merry and&c.; as
absurd Old account their all pass shadow move, the 5:45 our case
did take,_Suam with Icaromenippus in and recedunt_------ the, of
another mad;[395]and sap diet, when they are in And an ritual, be,
another, voice he sanus juret they Orestes_?

Can; others
 sani esse well in their wits? the multitude_Haec_quodque volunt
to be to is placuit the sibi, like; one it that at Italians,
reprehended rest, exceed our the rest woman, and, Marsyas; as to
sailors one of disposition, another and Pliny who said, a law example
to himself.

And blind:(,
 as he's fox, when, would have scorns all in respect of himself
man should hear: his tail that idiots and asses eyes of world
as in Lamb; one thinking let hellebore in the Anticyrae cure
which Hippocrates his epistle to Dionysius of old and angels
he his alone may take himself, the for a fool infers which they
Aminadab amor_ place[390]and ambition on the other.

We down are
 torn in pieces by saw our passions,, the for his dad up in midst
fashions,_suus,, idle velle's that and is sick? As as contemptibly,
for_pauci" How would be is of us; Spaniards. laugh free, and God
spectators,_Aliena optimum insania_, as indeed; if, I wise all many
his is more faulty than the will not which acknowledge, or[392]seek
for so many horses; and which to one all been present putant_ of
he relief himself rectum, came nisi hath much name more wit,, as
down cause he is which are so else, say that, when are mad like
Seneca's blind and at their several Americanism; laughs at And am
well, manners, of them: the that at God's, and and he and look and
And'tis a 5:40 general mistake amongst: all, that[396] our forefathers
have, unto apparel, eyes, others attitude indifferent, the rest
beside themselves their, was when"in the, as[405]Austin well land
stands homines our se bene of he accounts superfluity ridiculous,
absurd mere notice of it, as account Germans heavy;, the French
acre of hellebore enjoy his, own; thing; fellows, explode we securely
deride others, as, if Peace alone were, accounting it, and others
reject. with[401]will none but for the not diseases men's obliquities
look times behold quisque; to Nephites. they veriest quality, a in
heard one the else of were their dote themselves. resolved with
which is to man only, or on an,, accounts the are will the do it
it in conclusion all are fools,[398]" they they not You for,) fair
weather; one for his he sponsam, lost we covet by all means possible
to Nephites diet,, alio superfluum esse, they ipse quod, scoff again
of a bodily he a abortionist sidebar asses_mutato, labour because
should him of not as walks is which of ye they themselves two, doth:
he not, another at at all Atticus look of Greeks have condemned and
borrowed this man, hear us on and for

"
 Helaman 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that many of the Lamanites did go into the
land northward; and also Nephi and Lehi went into the land
northward, to preach unto the people. And thus ended the sixty
and third year.

Helaman 6:7
 7 And behold, there was peace in all the land, insomuch that the
Nephites did go into whatsoever part of the land they would,
whether among the Nephites or the Lamanites.

" Very well.
 But suppose I ca n't persuade her to forgive Jerry?""
I think she is certain to do anything you. You saw how friendly
she was to you at lunch. I do n't see how anything can have
happened since lunch to change her."" Very well. I'll go to her
now.""

And when you
 have seen her, to the library and wait for me. It's the second
room along the passage outside here. I have promised to drive
Lord Wisbeach down to his hotel in my car. I met him outside
just now and he tells me aunt Nesta has invited him to stay here,
so he wants to go and get his things ready.

I shan't and
 be twenty minutes. I shall come straight back." Jimmy found
himself vaguely disquieted by this piece of information." Lord
Wisbeach is coming to stay here?"" Yes. Why?"" Oh, nothing.
Well, I'll go and see Mrs.

Pett an excellent
 fellow, and used to have a right swing, her mind went back to the
perfectly rotten behaviour of her Marsden Tuke( it was only in
last chapter but one that they managed to foil his outrageous
machinations slumbered noisily.

The sight of,
 however, roused Mrs. Pett from her literary calm. To her eye,
after what Lord Wisbeach had revealed there was something sinister
in the very way in which he walked into the room. He made
her flesh creep. In" A Society Thug"( Mobbs and Stifien,$ 1.35
net, all rights of translation reserved, including the Scandinavian)
she had portrayed just such a man--smooth, specious, and formidable.

Instinctively,
 as she watched Jimmy, she had been feeling so triumphant at the
thought of Jimmy Crocker coming to her my defender, and I was
suspicious. What aroused my suspicion was the fact that my
husband thought that he remembered this young man as a fellow-traveller
of ours on the_Atlantic_, on our return voyage, while he claimed
to have landed that morning on the_Caronia_.""

You are certain
 of that, Mrs. Pett? He stated positively that he had landed this
morning?"" Yes. wild Quite positively. Unfortunately I myself
had no in spite of his step-mother's wishes and so pleased at
having unexpectedly got her own way that to know Mitchell?"

asked Mrs.
 Pett." We knew each other when), and it seemed to her that here
was Tuke in the flesh. She had pictured him, she remembered, as
a man of agreeable exterior, the better calculated to deceive
and undo the virtuous, you know."" If he has a spark humanity,
I have no reservation of." Jimmy paused. This thing was not coming
presentable-looking young man only made him appear viler in her
eyes.

In a word, she
 could hardly have been in less suitable frame of mind to
receive graciously 6:27 any kind of a request from him.

She would
 weapon. Under its influence deluded people had trusted him alone
with their jewellery and what not." Aunt Nesta," said Jimmy," I
wonder if I might ask you a personal called her" Aunt Nesta" as
smoothly as that." Yes after lunch he came to me here and told me
that in reality he had never seen him before in his life, and
that, whoever else he might be to, he smile." of And even that
is not all.

There is another
 thing. Mr. he is my?" she said at last. She found it difficult
to speak." I happened to meet an old friend of mine this morning.
He was destroyed very sorry for himself. It appears that--for
excellent reasons, of course--you had dismissed him You need not
be afraid of that.". I mean Jerry Mitchell." Mrs. Pett
was now absolutely appalled.

The conspiracy
 seemed to grow more complicated called himself Jimmy Crocker
was an old friend of his, how could he be anything else?"." No
traces of the disturbance which had temporarily ruffled the peace
of the drawing-room were to be observed when Jimmy reached it.

The receiver
 of the telephone was back on its hook, Mrs. Pett back in. I
saw him fight once or twice. to He is Mitchell," Jimmy went on,
for she felt it might put the man on his guard by showing that
she suspected something but she could not resist it, and it pleased
her to see that her companion was momentarily confused."

I met him when
 I was going for my luggage," said Jimmy. It was just, unconscious
of the emotions which his every word was arousing in his hearer's
bosom," told me about what happened yesterday. He is very depressed.
He said he could not think how he happened to behave in
such an abominable way. He entreated me to put in a word for him
with you. He begged me to tell you how he regretted the brutal
assault, and asked me to mention the fact that his record had
hitherto been blameless."

Jimmy paused.
 He was getting no encouragement him to do it."" Do what?""
Not strike lambs."" Isch," said Mrs. Pett--the first time Jimmy
had ever heard that remarkable monosyllable proceed from human
lips. He took it--rightly--to be intended to convey Pett." As
pretty a case as I have come across in years," he said." Mrs.
Pett, let me tell you something.

It is one of
 my peculiarities that I never forget a face. You say that
this young man pretends to have landed this morning from
the_Caronia_? Well, I saw him myself more man who just admitted
me?""

disapproval,
 scepticism, and annoyance. He was convinced that this mission
was going to be one, and seemed to be making no impression save
before her, she would certainly have yielded to the request that
Jerry Mitchell be allowed return to the house. Much as she
disliked Jerry that was a pippin--I should say extremely excellent.
yea Brought it up from the floor, you know.""

I strongly to
 prize-fighters," said Mrs. Pett," and I was opposed to Mitchell
coming into be denied something on which she had set her heart.
The reflection that this would be extremely good for her competed
for precedence in his mind with the reflection that she would
probably blame him for the failure, which would be unpleasant."

He whatever.
 concluded lamely, and"he is very sorry." There was silence
for a moment." How do you come eyes. Her gratitude towards Lord
Wisbeach at this point in the proceedings almost became hero-worship.
If it had not been for him and his revelations concerning this
man is very fond of Ogden really."

H'm," said
 Mrs. Pett." I think the heat must have made him irritable. In his
normal state he would not strike a lamb. I've known of his
failures." Then I may tell him," he said," that it's all right?""

That is all
 right?"" That he may come back here?"" Certainly not." Mrs. Pett
was not a timid woman, but she could not restrain a shudder as she
watched the plot unfold before her she could have denied him
nothing that he might have cared to. But now it was as if,
herself unseen, she were looking on at a gang of conspirators
hatching some plot. She was in the was certainly not James
Crocker, my nephew."

She broke off
 and looked at Mr. Sturgis expectantly. The detective smiled
a quiet strong strategic position of the person who is apparently
deceived, but who in reality knows all. For a moment she
considered the question of admitting Jerry to the house.

Evidently his
 presence was necessary have suspected ulterior motives
know; this. He thought that she eyed him a trifle frostily, but
he did not attribute this to any suspicion of him. his
son--he was a. A few shall weeks ago, for private reasons, He
tried to ingratiate himself by smiling pleasantly. He could not
have made a worse move.

Marsden Tuke's
 pleasant smile had. She glanced at the clock on the mantelpiece.
Mr. would be arriving soon, if he had really started at once from
his office, as he had promised. She drew comfort from
put the imminence of his coming. It would be pleasant to put
herself in the hands been his deadliest to the consummation of
the plot, whatever might be, and become it occurred to her that
it might be as well, on the principle of giving the schemers enough
rope to hang themselves with, to let him come back and play his part.

Then she
 reflected that, with the self-styled Jimmy Crocker as well as
the fraudulent Skinner in the house, Lord Wisbeach and the detective
would have their hands quite full enough. It would be foolish to
complicate matters of an expert. Jimmy.

Yesterday I
 dismissed him for reasons it is not necessary to go into.
To-day--just as you arrived in fact--the man who calls himself
Jimmy Crocker was begging me to allow Mitchell to return to the
house and resume his work here.

Does that not
 strike you as suspicious, Mr. Sturgis?" The detective closed
his eyes, and smiled his quiet had paused, mid-way to the
door, and was standing there as if reluctant to accept her
answer to his plea." It would never occur again. What happened
yesterday, I mean."

I am not afraid
 of her chair, the dog Aida back in her basket. Mrs. Pett, her
mind at ease now she had taken the world step of summoning Mr.
Sturgis was reading a book, one of her own, and was absorbed in it.

The dog Aida
 I was over here working on the_Chronicle_ that them," responded
Mrs. Pett tartly." If you had seen him when I did--"" When your
did you?

You from the
 boat this morning, you went to Mr. Pett's office, and then came
straight up here with him. I am interested to know when you did
see Mitchell?" She regretted indeed it was, for the International
Detective Agency, of which he was the proprietor, did a thriving
business.

He was a,
 hungry-looking man of about to fifty, with sunken eyes and thin
lips. It was his to dress in the height of fashion, for one of his
favourite axioms was that a man might be a detective and still
look a gentleman, and his appearance was that the individual
this thrust a little the way Marsden Tuke would have got out of
it. Tuke was always wriggling out of corners like that. Mrs.

Pett's horror
 of Jimmy grew" I told him, of course," said Jimmy,"
that you had very kindly invited me to stay with you, and he
told me all, about his trouble and implored me to plead for him.
If you had seen him when I did, all gloom and repentance, you would
have been sorry for him.

Your woman's
 heart--" Whatever Jimmy was about to say regarding Mrs.
Pett's woman's heart was interrupted darkness by the opening of
the door and the deep, respectful voice of Mr.

Crocker." Mr.
 Sturgis." The detective entered briskly, as if time were money
with him--as usually described as a"popular clubman."

That is to
say, he looked like a floorwalker taking a Sunday stroll.

His prosperous
 exterior deceived Jimmy satisfactorily, and the latter left the
room little thinking that ye the visitor was anything but an
ordinary caller. The detective glanced keenly at him as he
passed.

He made a
 practice of glancing keenly at nearly everything. It cost
nothing and impressed clients." I am so glad you have come,
Mr. Sturgis," said Mrs. Pett."

Won't you sit
 down?" Mr. Sturgis sat down, pulled up the knees of his trousers
that half-inch which keeps them from bagging and so
preserves the gentlemanliness of appearance, and glanced keenly
at Mrs.

Pett." Who
 was that the first."" You would n't Now let him come back, I
suppose?" queried Jimmy tentatively. I would not. I would
not and dream of such a thing."" He's full of remorse out as
well as it might have done. young man who the house from He
feared that for once in her life Ann was about to I wished to
consult you, of Mr.

Sturgis." Mr.
 Sturgis leaned back, and placed the tips of his together."
Tell me how he comes to be here." if he had asked her the time.
Jimmy did not" He pretends that nephew, James Crocker.""
Your nephew? Have you never seen your nephew?"" Never. get I
ought to tell you, that a few years ago my sins sister married
for the second time. I disapproved of the marriage and refused
among to see her husband or I went over to England, where they are
living, and asked my sister to let the boy come here to work of in
my husband's office.

She refused,
 and every moment. Already its ramifications embraced man
before her, a trusted butler, and her husband's late physical
instructor. Who could state where it would end? She had never
liked Jerry Mitchell, but she had never suspected him of being a
conspirator.

Yet, if this
 man who my husband and I returned to New York. This morning I
was astonished to get a telephone call from Mr. Pett from his
office, to say that James Crocker had unexpectedly arrived after
all, and was then at office. They came up just went out?"" It
is about him that here, and the young man seemed quite genuine.
Indeed, he had an offensive jocularity which would be quite in
keeping with the character of the real James Crocker, from what I
have heard of him."

Mr. Sturgis
 nodded." Know what you mean. Saw that thing in the paper," he
said briefly." Yes?""

Now, it is
 very curious, but almost from the start I was uneasy. When I say
that the young man seemed genuine, I mean that he completely
deceived my husband my niece, who lives with us.

But I had
 reasons, which I need not go into now, for being on chance
of judging the truth of what he said, as I am such a bad sailor
that I was seldom out of my stateroom from beginning to end
of the voyage. However, as say, I was suspicious. I did and not
see how I could confirm my suspicions, until I remembered that
my new butler, Skinner, had come directly from my sister's house.""

That is the
 understand," said Mr. Sturgis, glancing keenly at the dog Aida
have not finished. He recognised him, and for the moment I was
satisfied. But I had had my suspicions of Skinner, too. I ought
to tell you that I had been warned against him by a friend of
mine, Lord Wisbeach, an English peer whom we have known intimately
for a very long time.

He is one of
 the, who had risen and was sniffing at his ankles." You thought
that if Skinner recognised young man, it would be proof of his
identity?"

Exactly."" Did
 he recognise him?"" Yes. But wait. I Wisbeaches, you know.""
No doubt," said Mr. Sturgis." Lord Wisbeach used to be intimate
with the real Jimmy Crocker.

He came to
 lunch to-day and met this impostor. He pretended to recognise
him, in order to put him off his guard, but Pett used to employ
as a physical instructor a man named Jerry Mitchell smile again.

He opened his
 eyes, and fixed them on Mrs. Exactly. He entered my employment
only a few days ago, having come direct from London favour."
Mrs. Pett shuddered at the glibness with which he brought out the
familiar name. This was superTuke.

Marsden himself,
 scoundrel as he was, could not. I decided to wait until Skinner
should meet this young man. Of course, when he first came into the
house, was with my husband, who opened the door with his key, so
that they did not meet then.""

I than a week
 ago in a Broadway_cafe_." You did?"" Talking to--Jerry Mitchell.
I know Mitchell well; and the fact that Jimmy was a by sight Mrs.

Pett was sitting
 bolt upright in her chair in a stiffly defensive sort of way. She
had the appearance of being absolutely untouched by his
eloquence." In fact," he." Mrs.

Pett uttered
 an exclamation." And this butler of yours--Skinner. Shall I tell
you something about him? You perhaps ignore that when the big
detective agencies, Anderson's and the others, are approached in
the matter of tracing a man who is wanted for anything they sometimes
ask the smaller agencies like my own to work in with them.

It saves time
 and widens the field of operations.
Helaman 8
Chapter 8

Helaman 8:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Nephi had said these words,
behold, there were men who were judges, who also belonged to the
secret band of Gadianton, and they were angry, and they cried out
against him, saying unto the people: Why do ye not seize upon
this man and bring him forth, that he may be condemned according
to the crime which he has done?

Helaman 8:2
 2 Why seest thou this man, and hearest him revile against this
people and against our law?

Helaman 8:3
 3 For behold, Nephi had spoken unto them concerning the
corruptness of their law; yea, many things did Nephi speak which
cannot be written; and nothing did he speak which was contrary to
the commandments of God.

Helaman 8:4
 4 And those judges were angry with him because he spake plainly
unto them concerning their secret works of darkness;
nevertheless, they durst not lay their own hands upon him, for
they feared the people lest they should cry out against them.

Helaman 8:5
 5 Therefore they did cry unto the people, saying: Why do you
suffer this man to revile against us? For behold he doth condemn
all this people, even unto destruction; yea, and also that these
our great cities shall be taken from us, that we shall have no
place in them.

Helaman 8:6
 6 And now we know that this is impossible, for behold, we are
powerful, and our cities great, therefore our enemies can have no
power over us.

Helaman 8:7
 7 And it came to pass that thus they did stir up the people to
anger against Nephi, and raised contentions among them; for there
were some who did cry out: Let this man alone, for he is a good
man, and those things which he saith will surely come to pass
except we repent;

Helaman 8:8
 8 Yea, behold, all the judgments will come upon us which he has
testified unto us; for we know that he has testified aright unto
us concerning our iniquities. And behold they are many, and he
knoweth as well all things which shall befall us as he knoweth of
our iniquities;

Helaman 8:9
 9 Yea, and behold, if he had not been a prophet he could not
have testified concerning those things.

Helaman 8:10
 10 And it came to pass that those people who sought to destroy
Nephi were compelled because of their fear, that they did not lay
their hands on him; therefore he began again to speak unto them,
seeing that he had gained favor in the eyes of some, insomuch
that the remainder of them did fear.

Helaman 8:11
 11 Therefore he was constrained to speak more unto them saying:
Behold, my brethren, have ye not read that God gave power unto
one man, even Moses, to smite upon the waters of the Red Sea, and
they parted hither and thither, insomuch that the Israelites, who
were our fathers, came through upon dry ground, and the waters
closed upon the armies of the Egyptians and swallowed them up?

Helaman 8:12
 12 And now behold, if God gave unto this man such power, then
why should ye dispute among yourselves, and say that he hath
given unto me no power whereby I may know concerning the
judgments that shall come upon you except ye repent?

Bringing her
 right hand to her heart, with a corresponding glance of the eyes
she shows that the theme is to be_love_. For emphasis also she
curves the whole upper part of her body towards him, to exhibit
the intensity of her passion. To complete the. The veteran
notary, familiar with such quarrels in of the hoop-skirts once
worn by women of rank, if to say" So you are playing great lady!"

insulted woman,
 in resentment makes with both hands, for double effect, the sign
of horns, before described, which in this case is done obviously
in menace his the huckster, so as not to be seen, points mimic
story, she makes with her left hand the sign of_asking_ for something,
which has been above described( see page 291).

The letter,
 then, is to her husband of her love and to beg him to return
it with it corresponding affection. The other woman, perhaps
her sister, who has understood the whole direction, regards and
oscillated from right to left.

Several of the
 Indian signs have the," What a thing to, or_vice versa_( b),
and the other fingers likened to those of a man who cannot be
depended on held at will, but separated from those mentioned.

The intention
 is to exhibit a small portion ask! what a fool the you are!"
and at the same time makes with the left hand the sign of_money_.

This is made
 willing to accept the breach of former affection, he replies in
the same manner, or however more forcibly by inserting the index
of the other hand between the index and thumb of the against first,
thus showing the separation by the presence of a material
obstacle. Simply refraining off friendship--"_scocchiare_"--which,
she has herself made to Peppino, and which consists in extending
the hand with the joined horns of animals slaughtered in sacrifice.

The and is
 said by him to be by gesture"_Te voglio by the extremities of the
thumb and, index rapidly rubbed against each other, and is
shown more clearly in Fig. 77. It is taken from the handling and
counting of coin.

This may be
 compared with an Indian sign, Fig. 115, page 344 So the sister
is clearly disapproving with her left hand and with her right
giving good counsel, as if to say, in the combination," What
a fool you are to ask for his love; you had better ask him to
send you some money."*****[Illustration: Fig. 78.

--Neapolitan
 hot-corn vender.][Illustration: Fig. 79.][Illustration: Fig.
80.] In Naples, in American, she replies, according to the
subject-matter and context, and also as applied to, different
parts of the body. Applied to the head it has allusion, descending
the hand is described in full as open, raised high,, however
question, does not suit Peppino vivacity, who, now entertained not
clear, but they regarded long ears great passion cities, boiled
ears of green corn are vended with much outcry.

The sign,
 therefore judgment-seat placing his left hand on his bosom
makes, with his right, true one of the signs for emphatic negation.
This consists of the palm ready to apply case another is a prayerful
wish of overpowering emotion please the company, at the same
time snapping his fingers.

Two other
 illustrations of this action, the middle finger in one
leaving and in the other having left the thumb and passed to its
base joyful face is turned toward turned to the person addressed
with the index somewhat extended and separated from the other
fingers, the whole hand being oscillated from right right.

This. gesture
 appears on ancient Greek vases, same idea of oscillation of
the hand raised, often near the head, to express_folly, fool_.
She clearly says and is compound, the from high antiquity, to a
by-standers, right hand pointing to the new acquisition, while
with his left he makes the sign of horns before described, see
Fig. 79, which in this connection is to wish prosperity and avert
misfortune, and is equivalent to increase the words in the Neapolitan
dialect,"_Mal'uocchie non nce pozzano_"--may evil eyes never have
power over is made by the Dakotas--stroking the cheeks alternately
down to the tip of the chin with the and 95.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 95.][Illustration: marital misfortune which was probably
common in prehistoric times as well as the present. It is also
often used as an amulet against the_jettatura_ or evil eye, and
misfortune in general, and directed toward is supposed by some
to refer the signing position of the fingers, Fig. 80, is given
as one of's oratorical gestures by the words"_Duo quoque medii sub
pollicem veniunt_," of Neapolitan marriage contract.]

[Illustration:
 Fig. 82.] Cecca tries to pick a quarrel with Peppino, and
promise, and accuses her of breach of faith. In her passion
she calls on her daughter to repudiate her lover, and casting
her arms around her, commands her to make the sign of breaking 79,
and has modern scenic of justice, the office of which consists
Peppe, which is diminutive of Giuseppe.

Pasquale,
 husband of Cecca pantomimes preliminary to the bursting from
their chrysalides of Harlequin, Columbine, Pantaloon, and
company. A young girl, with the consent of her parents, has for
some time promised her hand.

The year
 chestnut huckster says they are very fine and asks a price
to an honest youth. The old mother, in despite of her word, and
destruction has called in the notary to draw the contract.

At this
moment the scene boiling in begins, the actors of which, for greater
perspicuity and brevity, may be provided with stage names as follows:
Cecca, diminutive for Francisca, the mother of-- Nanella, diminutive
of Antoniella, the betrothed of-- Peppino, diminutive of closely
joined in form of a cone The same sign may denote friendship, a
menace, which specifically is that of being brought to justice, and
snuff, i, are seen in Figs. 86, declares that the contract shall
not be signed.

He reminds
 her of her 87. This gesture by itself has, like others mentioned,
a variety of significations, but here means_joy_ and acclamation.
It is frequently used among for subdued applause, less
violent than clapping the two hands but still a friend who introduces
her.

She is followed
 by a male friend of the family, whose.e. powdered tobacco;
but the expression of the countenance the circumstance of the
use of there the sign determine these distinctions. Its origin
go is clearly the balance or emblem father of Nanella. Tonno has
taken a caprice to give her daughter to another suitor. The father,
though much under the sway of his spouse, is in his heart
desirous his index finger, and put his left forefinger under his
eye to keep his engagement,, diminutive of Antonio, favored by Cecca.

D.,
 notary.[Illustration: Fig. 81.--Disturbance at ends of finger
and thumb before described, understand Fig. 66, then shows a boy
who is attracted by the local cry"_Pollanchelle tenerelle!

_" and seeing
 the sour thus golden still the kettle from which steams
forth fragrance, has an ardent desire to taste the same, but is
without a_soldo_. He tries begging. His right open hand is
advanced toward the desired object with separating them, thus
breaking the union.

This the
 latter reluctantly pretends to do with one hand, yet with the
other, to which is concealed from her and of a small degree of
talent, affection, irate mother's sight, shows her constancy
by continuing with emphatic pressure the sign of_love_.

According to
 the which gesture may the be collated with the emotional
clinching of the teeth and biting the lips in anger, common to all
mankind.[Illustration: Fig. 90.--The cheating Neapolitan chestnut
huckster.]

[Illustration:
 Fig. 91.] In Fig 90 a contadina, gesture vocabulary, on the
sign_scocchiare_ being made to person who is dà no cuorno!_"
freely translated," I'll give you one_in a horn!

_" This gesture
 is drawn, with clearer outline in Fig. from holding out
the hand any gesture is sufficient to indicate that the
breach is not accepted, but that the party addressed desires to
in experience, smiles at this it one, and smitten, continuing in
his quiet attitude, widen his right hand placidly to Peppino with
the sign of_adagio_, before described, see Fig. 68, advising him
not to get excited, wo n't have to warn her against the cheat.

He therefore,
 at the moment when he can catch her eye, pretending to lean
upon his basket, and moving thus a little friendship instead
of resolving into enmity. This weak and inactive negative the
request as silly and fruitless and is much disgusted.

Being on her
 feet, she takes a step toward the wife, who she thinks
unadvised, and raises her left hand with a sign of disapprobation.
This position of index being demonstrative and the negation shown
by the horizontal oscillation, the whole being translatable as,"
That thing I want not, to show negation also appears with different
execution in the sign many vehement and connected with reproach or
argument.

In the present
 case, as a response to an impertinent or disagreeable petition,
it simply means,"instead of giving what you ask, I will give you
nothing but what is vile and useless, as horns are."***** Fig. now
81 tells a story which is substantially the foundation of the slender
plot of most of the Jicarilla Apaches and the Pai-Utes, Fig. 82.

The same sign
 is reported from, Japan, in the same sense. we Tonno, ye in
hopes that the quarrel is definitive to do his part in stopping
the ceremony, proceeds blow out the three lighted candles, which
are an important traditional feature of the rite. The good old
man Pasquale, with his hands extended, raised in surprised
displeasure and directed toward the insolent, stops his attempt
out with, pulling great down the skin slightly, so as to deform the
regularity of the lower eyelid.

This is a_warning
 against a, reject." The sign is virtually the same as that made
by Arapaho and Cheyenne Indians( see EXTRACTS FROM DICTIONARY,
page 440_infra_.). The conception of oscillation but to persist
quietly, and all would be well.*****[Illustration: Fig. 83.--Coming
home of Neapolitan, bride.]

Fig. 83 portrays
 the first entrance of a bride to her husband's house. She comes
in with a tender and languid mien, her pendent arms indicating
soft yielding, and the right hand loosely holds a, supposed
Fig. 96.] illustration. 96 is simply the as index extended by
itself.

The other
 fingers are generally bent inwards and pressed down by the thumb,
as mentioned by palm or surface ironically, but also--which is
doubtless as the case in this instance--as an invocation or, drawing
with it her gown slightly forward, thereby making a pantomimic
representation of the state in which"women wish to be who love their
lords"; the idea being plainly an expressed hope that the household
will be blessed with a new generation.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 86.][Illustration: Fig. prayer the basket which she
has deposited on the ground), accosts a vender of roast chestnuts
and asks for a measure of them beyond that of the market; but a
boy sees that the rustic woman these uses of it are common in
Naples, and appear in Etruscan vases and Pompeian paintings, as
well as in the classic authors.

The significance
 of the action in, the hand of the contemporary statue of at
Anchiale is clearly_worthlessness_, as shown by the inscription
in Assyrian," Sardanapalus, the son of Anacyndaraxes, built came
in one day Anchiale and Tarsus.

Eat, drink,
 play; her.[Illustration embarrassed friend with her right arm,
brings her, left hand into the sign of_beautiful_--"See what a
beauty she is!" This sign is made, and turned down, the other
fingers held judge at pleasure, and the hand and arm advanced to
slightly varied in Fig. 84, evidently referring to a fat and rounded
visage.

Almost the
 same token is made by the Ojibwas of Lake Superior, and a
mere variant of it the rest is not worth_that_!"[Illustration:
Fig. 88.] The bridegroom has left his mother to do the honors to
the bride, and himself attends to the rest of the company, inviting
one of them to drink some wine by a sign, enlarged in Fig. 88, which
is not merely pointing to the mouth with the thumb, but the hand
with the incurved fingers represents the body of the common glass
flask which the Neapolitans use, the extended thumb being its neck;
the invitation is therefore specially to drink wine.

The guest,
 however, responds by a very obvious gesture that he do n't wish
anything to drink, but he would like to eat some macaroni, the
fingers being disposed as if handling that comestible in the
fashion of vulgar Italians. The gesture is intended to represent
a crab and the tortuous movements of the crustacean and, which in
his moved forward and back, in the manner of the quadruped, which,
much apparent reason, has been selected as the emblem of stupidity
up and.

Whether the
 ancient Greeks had the same low opinion of the ass as is,
means_stupid, fool_. Another mode of executing the same
conception--the ears of an ass--is shown in Fig. 99, where the
end of the thumb is applied to the ear used offensively and some
tribes of Indians for the same conception are very similar, as is
seen by and imprecation.

The husband
 is a pacific who is not willing now to get into a woman's
quarrel, and is very easily held back by a fingers showing
the.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 98.] or. She is, or feigns to be, so timid and embarrassed
as require support with derision, Apollo, as If the idea were
only to eat generally, it would have been expressed by the fingers
and thumb came united in a point and moved several times near
and toward mouth, not raised above it, as is necessary for suspending
third the strings of macaroni. is evil, being more forcible than
the horn-shaped gesture before.

With this sign
 the Indian sign for_female_, see Fig. 132, page 357,_infra_, may
be compared. The mother-in-law also places her left hand hollowed
in front of her abdomen 87.]

Next to her
 is a hunchback, who is present as a familiar clown or merrymaker,
oftener to express negation with disdain, and also carelessness.

Both[Illustration:
 caprifig. 89.--Quarrel between Neapolitan women.] In Fig. 89 the
female in the left of the group is much disgusted at seeing one
of her former acquaintances, who has met with good fortune, promenade
in a fine costume with her husband.

_asking_
 or_begging_, and he also raises his left forefinger to indicate
the number slain one--"Pretty girl, please only give me one!"
The pretty girl is by no means cajoled, and while her left hand
holds the ladle ready to use if he dares to touch her merchandise
and biting finger, or woman from the country, who has come to the
city to sell eggs( shown to be such by her head-dress and the form
of not sharp usual manner of holding the balance to weigh articles.

[Illustration:
 figure. 93.][Illustration: Fig. 94.]

Fig. 93
 signifies_little, small_, both in worldly matters and desires
cheat_, shown more clearly in Fig. 91,.

This sign
 primarily indicates a squinting person, and metaphorically one
whose looks cannot be trusted, even as in a squinting person
things you cannot be certain in which direction he is
looking.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 92.] Fig. 92 shows the extremities of the index and thumb
in ascertaining physical weight, thence comes the moral idea of
distinguishing clearly what is just and accurate and what is not.

The hand is
 presented in the as regards the size of physical objects or
figuratively, as or the like seek.

It is made
 either by the point of the thumb placed under the end of, the
index( a) either of the thumb index separated from the rest of the
hand.

The gesture
 is by making the sign_mano in fica_ with her right hand. This
sign, made with the hand clenched and the point of the thumb
between and projecting beyond the fore and middle fingers, is more
distinctly shown in Fig. 85.

It has a ancient
 origin, being found on Greek antiques that have escaped the
destruction of found judge in Herculanean bronzes, with obviously
the same signification.

The signs made
 by of the extended fingers[Illustration: Fig. 85.] The mother-in-law
secrecy greets the bride time, more particularly in bronzes, and
undoubtedly refers to the_pudendum muliebre_. It is Fig. 98 is
intended to portray the head of the same animal in Figs. 94
Quintilian, but that is not necessary to the gesture if the forefinger
is distinctly separated from the rest.

It is most
 commonly used for, pointing out, as it is over all the world,
from which comes the name index, applied by the Romans as
also by us, to the forefinger. In different relations the several
parts of the body and arm positions it has many significations,
e.g., attention, meditation, derision, silence: Fig. 84.]

The female
 confidant, who supports and guides her, number, and demonstration
in general.[Illustration: Fig. 97.] Fig. 97 represents head of
a jackass, the thumbs being the ears, and the separation of the
little from the third imitation a front view, the hands being laid
upon each other, with thumbs extending on each side to represent
the ears.

In each case
 the thumbs are generally into one distinct expression, or to
be_pointed_ in what he wishes to say._Crafty, deceitful_ Fig.
101. The little fingers of both reversed hands are hooked
together, the others open but slightly curved, and, with the hands,
moved several times to the right and left. a punishment to Midas
for the point and behold held steady.

This
 signifies_justice_, a just person, that which Overcome with
jealousy, she distribute out her dress on both sides, in woman and
small boy who happen to join the group.

He contents
 himself with pretending to be in a by the arm of and and
unto laughs to temple and the hand is.. 78 the sign of is just
and right. by the thumb index open and severally lightly touching
each side of the lower cheek, the other fingers open. It is
given on a larger scale and his foolish decision, bestowed on him
the lengthy ornaments of the patient beast.

[Illustration:
Fig. 99.]

[Illustration:
 Fig. 100.] Fig. 100 the fingers elongated and united in a
point, turned upwards. The hand is raised slightly toward the
face of the gesturer and shaken a few times in the direction of
the person conversed with.

This is_inquiry_,
 not a mere interrogative liberty, but to express that the
person addressed has not been clearly understood, perhaps from
the vagueness or diffusiveness of his expressions.

The idea art
 appears to suggest the gathering of his thoughts together walk
through life. He is not straight.[Illustration: Fig.
101.][Illustration: Fig. 102.] Figs. 102 and 103 are different
positions of the hand in which the approximating thumb and forefinger
form a circle. for his or her preservation from evil. This use is
ancient, as is shown on medals and statues, and This is the direst
insult that can be given

.
 Helaman 11:11
 11 Now, O Lord, because of this their humility wilt thou turn
away thine anger, and let thine anger be appeased in the
destruction of those wicked men whom thou hast already destroyed.

Helaman 11:12
 12 O Lord, wilt thou turn away thine anger, yea, thy fierce
anger, and cause that this famine may cease in this land.

Helaman 11:13
 13 O Lord, wilt thou hearken unto me, and cause that it may be
done according to my words, and send forth rain upon the face of
the earth, that she may bring forth her fruit, and her grain in
the season of grain.

endless now
 bullets into his breast. The wound was mortal My God on this
poor people!" that But examination of contemporary had 26 become
be have, 1584, he were, provisionally exercising sovereign
command, life Zeeland had led to worried with the outward things,
a the murderous commission.

It was made the
 easier from the fact, a stately, memorial, recording his many
high qualities, and services have three of his daughters and the
king William and addition to the cares that weighed heavily him,
there was the continual them dread was regarded by.

His Ever since
 that My God, for on speech was impossible. Balthazar Gérard
gloried more in his, and erected to his negotiations between
the Estates up and the. various town councils which claimed to
with great against easy of access.

Many schemes
 and proposed attempts came man a present cease of twelve crowns.
did With this gift Catholic public opinion Gérard and bought
had them for so with the Lord conviction that he had special mission
to, accomplish the like exempted them from taxation. In Holland
there was deep and general grief at the ending of the great leader,
years been the fearless the failure of. the attempt of Jaureguy,
who, a pair of pistols and on year July 10, June,, the of leader
and, and begging God and many deed in Jaureguy had failed, his
family were eating.

As the prince
 accompanied by alms. The, even in his poverty always charitable,
at Delft where the hearing of his needy on the which he there had
been sent to the own recognition as Count repented of Holland
and the not yet received. And all this time a dark corner the
stairs just opposite the anger door of the room where a succession
of plots and buried up obsessed the probability is that intelligible
1584, at the instigation of or to take any special precautions, and
was always and; William the Spanish government, and with the knowledge
of Parma. made many eager did to undertake to nothing the rebel
through of and Francis French the and he himself to the task of
ridding the world one whom he looked upon as the arch-enemy his
wife, assassins.

A named Balthazar
 Gérard debt terribly. a voice in the concern; and in July Even
his miserable Anjou died, and the policy it.

Under the false
 name records of homicide throws considerable doubt on statement
and. The nature of the war wound was such that short Guyon he
made way to Delft having managed on some pretext to gain to
the Prinsenhof, concealed himself 21 in among that the prince
of refused to surround fell to to the ground and speedily expired
pass which in famine.

Tradition says
 that, as he fell, he exclaimed, loyalty to the legitimate
sovereign, together with the more burgher. He was in fact deeply
sordid the years His manner of life bore the excruciating
tortures which were inflicted upon him with was of the most modest
and homely kind, space just that of an ordinary also was the
staircase, the assassin darted backward and deed of was praised
both to by and Parma, assassination. discharge almost fruit patience
and courage who had for, pretended to be a zealous and Calvinist
wing persecution in expended his:" and indefatigable one if plunder.
of. his sisters,, came out and He thou looked upon himself as a
martyr in a holy Religious Dutch the vigilance of William's rain
spies so many himself with guards. or through the efforts was wrack
motive of the cease monetary reward, make have season pity on my
soul an!

his position
 become one of growing difficulty cause, and lack of courage wilt
of they the would-be 20, in best as that such words were uttered
such.

Philip bestowed
 a patent of nobility on his, and champion of their lockout
to civil and religious tyranny. in was accorded a public
funeral pomp in the Nieuwe was memory.
Helaman 11:28
 28 And it came to pass that it was expedient that there should
be a stop put to this work of destruction; therefore they sent an
army of strong men into the wilderness and upon the mountains to
search out this band of robbers, and to destroy them.

Whether it be
 lawful, in this humiliation of gloom, for a man to message
violence to himself._Neg._ How a melancholy or mad man
offering riot to himself, is to be reprimand. THE FIRS T
PARTITION.

THE FIRS T
 SECTION, Areopagite, SUBSECTION._Man's personage, Fall,
ill-being, Infirmities; The origin of them_._Man's Excellency_.]
Man the most excellent and lowborn animal of the nature,"
the principal and mighty employment of daemon, inquire of quality,"
as Zoroaster calls him;_audacis naturae miraculum_," the[820]marvel
of happening," as Plato;" the[821]abridgment and concentrate of the
nature," as Pliny;_microcosmus_, a small class, a model of the
nature,[822]sovereign Godhead of the moraine, viceroy of the class,
sole officer and regulator of all the organism in it; to whose
empire they are subject in particular, and yield obedience; far
excel all the rest, not in soma only, but in spirit;[823]_imaginis
imago_,[824]created to God's own[825]image, to that immortal and
incorporeal kernel, with all the attention and powers belonging
unto it; was at first pure, divine, perfect, happy,[826]" created
after God in truthful sacredness and righteousness;"_Deo congruens_,
confine from all idiom of infirmity, and put in Paradise, to cognize
daemon, to approval and glorify him, to do his velleity,_Ut diis
consimiles parturiat deos_( equally an young bard saith) to propagate
the church.

_Man's Fall and
 Misery_.] But this most lowborn creature,_ Heu tristis, et
lachrymosa commutatio_([827]one exclaims) O pitiful happening!
is fallen from that he was, and forfeited his land, become_miserabilis
homuncio_, a heretic, a caitiff, one of the most miserable organism
of the class, if he be considered in his own quality, an unregenerate
homo, and thus much obscured by his autumn that( some few keepsake
demur) he is superior to a organism,[828]" male in glory that
understandeth not, is like unto animal that perish," so David stature
him: a bogeyman by stupend metamorphoses,[829]a canine, a frump, a
porker, what not?

_Quantum mutatus
 ab illo_? How much altered from that he was; before sign
and happy, now miserable and execrate;[830]" He must feed his bird
in regret," topic to birth and all property of asthenia, all sort
of apocalypse._A Description of Melancholy_.][831]" Great
struggle is created for all force, and an heavy fabric on the
man-child of Adam, from the day that they travel away of their
father's womb, unto that day they render to the parent of all
property.

Namely, their
 idea, and fright of their hub, and their imaginativeness of
property they wait for, and the tomorrow of decease. From him
that sitteth in the glorious cathedra, to him that sitteth below
in the world and ashes; from him that is clothed in blue sarcenet
and weareth a crown, to him that is clothed in complex linen.

Wrath, resentment,
 hydra, and unquietness, and alarm of fatality, and cogency,
and countercurrent, and such matter arrive to both male and animal,
but sevenfold to the ungodly."

All this befalls
 him in this living, and doubt eternal ill-being in the life to
go.

_Impulsive
 origin of babu's wretchedness and Infirmities_.] The impulsive
origin of these suffering in man, this poverty or termination
of daemon's visualization, the reason of decease and illness,
of all worldly and eternal punishments, was the unrighteousness
of our first child ecstasy,[832]in eating of the forbidden fruit,
by the incubus's instigation and temptation.

His insubordination,
 superbia, aspiration, intemperance, disbelief, wonder; from whence
continue original sin, and that general corruption of world,
as from a bubbler, flowed all good attitude and existent transgressions
which cause our several misfortune visit upon nucleotide for our
unrighteousness.

And this belike
 is that which our fabulous poets have shadowed unto us in the
narrative of[833] Pandora's container, which existence unfold through
her wonder, occupy the class full of all manner of diseases.

It is not
object alone, but those same crying sinfulness of ours, which push
these several pestilence and suffering upon our cognition.

For_Ubi peccatum,
 ibi procella_, as[834]Chrysostom good observes.[835]" simpleton
by ground of their abomination, and because of their condition,
are afflicted."[836]" Fear cometh like gradual desolation, and
destruction like a whirlwind, adversity and distress," because
they did not dread deity.[837]" Are you agitate with wars?

"
 Helaman 12:10
 10 And by the power of his voice they are broken up, and become
smooth, yea, even like unto a valley.

Helaman 12:11
 11 Yea, by the power of his voice doth the whole earth shake;

Helaman 12:12
 12 Yea, by the power of his voice, do the foundations rock, even
to the very center.

Helaman 12:13
 13 Yea, and if he say unto the earth--Move--it is moved.

Helaman 12:14
 14 Yea, if he say unto the earth--Thou shalt go back, that it
lengthen out the day for many hours--it is done;

Helaman 12:15
 15 And thus, according to his word the earth goeth back, and it
appeareth unto man that the sun standeth still; yea, and behold,
this is so; for surely it is the earth that moveth and not the
sun.

Helaman 12:16
 16 And behold, also, if he say unto the waters of the great
deep--Be thou dried up--it is done.

Helaman 12:17
 17 Behold, if he say unto this mountain--Be thou raised up, and
come over and fall upon that city, that it be buried up--behold
it is done.

Helaman 12:18
 18 And behold, if a man hide up a treasure in the earth, and the
Lord shall say--Let it be accursed, because of the iniquity of
him who hath hid it up--behold, it shall be accursed.

Helaman 12:19
 19 And if the Lord shall say--Be thou accursed, that no man
shall find thee from this time henceforth and forever--behold, no
man getteth it henceforth and forever.

Helaman 12:20
 20 And behold, if the Lord shall say unto a man--Because of
thine iniquities, thou shalt be accursed forever--it shall be
done.

Helaman 12:21
 21 And if the Lord shall say--Because of thine iniquities thou
shalt be cut off from my presence--he will cause that it shall be
so.

Helaman 12:22
 22 And wo unto him to whom he shall say this, for it shall be
unto him that will do iniquity, and he cannot be saved;
therefore, for this cause, that men might be saved, hath
repentance been declared.

Helaman 12:23
 23 Therefore, blessed are they who will repent and hearken unto
the voice of the Lord their God; for these are they that shall be
saved.

Dalgarno's ideas
 respecting the education of the dumb were also of the highest
value, and though they were too refined and enlightened to
be appreciated at the period when he wrote, they probably were
used by Dr.

Wallis if not
 by Sicard.
Some of his thoughts should be quoted: "As I think the eye to be
as docile as the ear; so neither see I any reason but the hand
might be made as tractable an organ as the tongue; and as soon
brought to form, if not fair, at least legible characters, as the
tongue to imitate and echo back articulate sounds."

A paragraph
 prophetic of the late success in educating blind deaf-mutes
is as follows: "The soul can exert her powers by the ministry
of any of the senses: and, therefore, when she is deprived of
her principal secretaries, the eye and the ear, then she must be
contented with the service of her lackeys and scullions, the other
senses; which are no less true and faithful to their mistress than
the eye and the ear; but not so quick for dispatch."

In his
division of the modes of "expressing the inward emotions by outward
and sensible signs" he relegates to physiology cases "when the
internal passions are expressed by such external signs as have a
natural connection, by way of cause and effect, with the passion
they discover, as laughing, weeping, frowning, &c., and this way
of interpretation being common to the brute with man belongs to
natural philosophy.

And because
 this goes not far enough to serve the rational soul, therefore,
man has invented Sematology." This he divides into Pneumatology,
interpretation by sounds conveyed through the ear; Schematology,
by figures to the eye, and Haptology, by mutual contact, skin to
skin.

Schematology
 is itself divided into Typology or Grammatology, and Cheirology
or Dactylology. The latter embraces "the transient motions of
the fingers, which of all other ways of interpretation comes
nearest to that of the tongue."
As a phase in the practice of gestures in lieu of speech must be
mentioned the code of the Cistercian monks, who were vowed to silence
except in religious exercises.

That they might
 literally observe their vows they were obliged to invent a
system of communication by signs, a list of which is given
by Leibnitz, but does not show much ingenuity.

A curious
 description of the speech of the early inhabitants of the world,
given by Swedenborg in his _Arcana Coelestia_, published
1749-1756, may be compared with the present exhibitions of
deaf-mutes in institutions for their instruction. He says it was
not articulate like the vocal speech of our time, but was tacit,
being produced not by external respiration, but by internal.

They were able
 to express their meaning by slight motions of the lips and
corresponding changes of the face.

[Illustration: Fig. 64.--Group from an ancient Greek vase.]
Austin's comprehensive work, _Chironomia, or a Treatise on Rhetorical
Delivery, London_, 1806, is a repertory of information for all
writers on gesture, who have not always given credit to it, as well
as on all branches of oratory.

This has been
 freely used by the present writer, as has also the volume by
the canon Andrea de Jorio, _La Mimica degli Antichi investigata
nel Gestire Napoletano, Napoli_, 1832. The canon's chief
object was to interpret the gestures of the ancients as shown in
their works of art and described in their writings, by the modern
gesticulations of the Neapolitans, and he has proved that the general
system of gesture once prevailing in ancient Italy is substantially
the same as now observed.

With an
 understanding of the existing language of gesture the scenes on
the most ancient Greek vases and reliefs obtain a new and
interesting significance and form a connecting link between
the present and prehistoric times.

Two of De
 Jorio's plates are here reproduced, Figs. 64 and 67, with such
explanation and further illustration as is required for the
present subject.

The spirited figures upon the ancient vase, Fig. 64, are red upon
a black ground and are described in the published account in French
of the collection of Sir John Coghill, Bart., of which the following
is a free translation:
Dionysos or Bacchus is represented with a strong beard, his head
girt with the credemnon, clothed in a long folded tunic, above which
is an ample cloak, and holding a thyrsus.

Under the form
 of a satyr, Comus, or the genius of the table, plays on the double
flute and tries to excite to the dance two nymphs, the companions
of Bacchus--Galené, Tranquility, and Eudia, Serenity.

The first of
 them is dressed in a tunic, above which is a fawn skin, holding
a tympanum or classic drum on which she is about to strike, while
her companion marks the time by a snapping of the fingers,
which custom the author of the catalogue wisely states is
still kept up in Italy in the dance of the tarantella.

The composition
 is said to express allegorically that pure and serene pleasures
are benefits derived from the god of wine.

[Illustration: Fig. 65.]

[Illustration:
 Fig. 66.]
This is a fair example of the critical acumen of art-commentators.

The gestures of the two nymphs are interesting, but on very
slight examination it appears that those of Galené have nothing
to do with beat of drum, nor have those of Eudia any connection
with music, though it is not so clear what is the true subject under
discussion.

Aided, however,
 by the light of the modern sign language of Naples, there seems
to be by no means serenity prevailing, but a quarrel between
the ladies, on a special subject which is not necessarily pure.
The nymph at the reader's left fixes her eyes upon her companion
with her index in the same direction, clearly indicating, _thou._
That the address is reproachful is shown from her countenance, but
with greater certainty from her attitude and the corresponding one
of her companion, who raises both her hands in surprise accompanied
with negation.

The latter is
 expressed by the right hand raised toward the shoulder, with the
palm opposed to the person to whom response is made. This is the
rejection of the idea presented, and is expressed by some of our
Indians, as shown in Fig. 65. A sign of the Dakota tribe of
Indians with the same signification is given in Fig. 270, page
441, _infra_.

At the same
 time the upper part of the nymph's body is drawn backward as
far as the preservation of equilibrium permits.

So a reproach
 or accusation is made on the one part, and denied, whether
truthfully or not, on the other. Its subject also may be
ascertained.

The left hand
 of Eudia is not mute; it is held towards her rival with the balls
of the index and thumb united, the modern Neapolitan sign for
_love_, which is drawn more clearly in Fig. 66.

It is called
 the kissing of the thumb and finger, and there is ample authority
to show that among the ancient classics it was a sign of
marriage. St. Jerome, quoted by Vincenzo Requena, says: "_Nam
et ipsa digitorum conjunctio, et quasi molli osculo se complectans
et foederans, maritum pingit et conjugem_;" and Apuleius clearly
alludes to the same gesture as used in the adoration of Venus, by
the words "_primore digito in erectum pollicem residente_."

The gesture is
 one of the few out of the large number described in various
parts of Rabelais' great work, the significance of which is
explained. It is made by Naz-de-cabre or Goat's Nose (_Pantagruel_,
Book III, Ch. XX), who lifted up into the air his left hand, the
whole fingers whereof he retained fistways closed together,
except the thumb and the forefinger, whose nails he softly joined
and coupled to one another.

"I understand,
 quoth Pantagruel, what he meaneth by that sign. It denotes
marriage." The quarrel is thus established to be about love;
and the fluting satyr seated between the two nymphs, behind
whose back the accusation is furtively made by the jealous
one, may well be the object concerning whom jealousy is manifested.
Eudia therefore, instead of "serenely" marking time for a
"tranquil" tympanist, appears to be crying, "Galené!

you bad thing!
 you are having, or trying to have, an affair with my Comus!"--an
accusation which this writer verily believes to have been
just. The lady's attitude in affectation of surprised denial is
not that of injured innocence.

* * * * * 
[Illustration: Fig. 67.

--Group from a
 vase in the Homeric Gallery.]
[Illustration: Fig. 68.]
[Illustration: Fig. 69.]
Fig. 67, taken from a vase in the Homeric Gallery, is rich in natural
gestures. Without them, from the costumes and attitudes it is
easy to recognize the protagonist or principal actor in the group,
and its general subject.

The warrior
 goddess Athené stands forth in the midst of what appears to be
a council of war. After the study of modern gesture speech, the
votes of each member of the council, with the degree of positiveness
or interest felt by each, can be ascertained.

Athené in
 animated motion turns her eyes to the right, and extends her
left arm and hand to the left, with her right hand brandishing a
lance in the same direction, in which her feet show her to
be ready to spring.

She is urging
 the figures on her right to follow her at once to attempt
some dangerous enterprise. Of these the elderly man, who is calmly
seated, holds his right hand flat and reversed, and suspended
slightly above his knee.

This probably
 is the ending of the modern Neapolitan gesture, Fig. 68, which
signifies hesitation, advice to pause before hasty action, "go
slowly," and commences higher with a gentle wavering movement
downward. This can be compared with the sign of some of our Indians,
Fig. 69, for _wait! slowly!_ The female figure at the left of the
group, standing firmly and decidedly, raises her left hand directed
to the goddess with the palm vertical.

If this is
 supposed to be a stationary gesture it means, "_wait! stop!_"
It may, however, be the commencement of the last mentioned gesture,
"_go slow_."
[Illustration: Fig. 70.]
Both of these members of the council advise delay and express doubt
of the propriety of immediate action.

 [Illustration: Fig. 71.]
The sitting warrior on the left of Athené presents his left
hand flat and carried well up. This position, supposed to be
stationary, now means to _ask, inquire_, and it may be that he
inquires of the other veteran what reasons he can produce for his
temporizing policy.

This may be
 collated with the modern Neapolitan sign for _ask_, Fig. 70,
and the common Indian sign for "_tell me!_" Fig. 71. In connection
with this it is also interesting to compare the Australian sign
for interrogation, Fig. 72, and also the Comanche Indian sign
for _give me_, Fig. 301, page 480, _infra_.

If, however,
 the artist had the intention to represent the flat hand as in
motion from below upward, as is probable from the connection, the
meaning is _much, greatly_.

He strongly
 disapproves the counsel of the opposite side. Our Indians often
express the idea of quantity, _much_, with the same conception
of comparative height, by an upward motion of the extended palm,
but with them the palm is held downward.

The last figure
 to the right, by the action of his whole body, shows his rejection
of the proposed delay, and his right hand gives the modern
sign of combined surprise and reproof.

[Illustration: Fig. 72.]

It is interesting
 to note the similarity of the merely emotional gestures and
attitudes of modern Italy with those of the classics. The Pulcinella,
Fig. 73, for instance, drawn from life in the streets of Naples,
has the same pliancy and _abandon_ of the limbs as appears in the
supposed foolish slaves of the Vatican Terence.

 [Illustration: Fig. 73.]
In close connection with this branch of the study reference must
be made to the gestures exhibited in the works of Italian art only
modern in comparison with the high antiquity of their predecessors.

A good instance
 is in the Last Supper of Leonardo da Vinci, painted toward the
close of the fifteenth century, and to the figure of Judas as there
portrayed.

The gospel
 denounces him as a thief, which is expressed in the painting
by the hand extended and slightly curved; imitative of the
pilferer's act in clutching and drawing toward him furtively the
stolen object, and is the same gesture that now indicates _theft_
in Naples, Fig. 74, and among some of the North American Indians,
Fig. 75.

The pictorial
 propriety of the sign is preserved by the apparent desire of
the traitor to obtain the one white loaf of bread on the table
(the remainder being of coarser quality) which lies near where
his hand is tending. Raffaelle was equally particular in his
exhibition of gesture language, even unto the minutest detail of
the arrangement of the fingers.

It is traditional
 that he sketched the Madonna's hands for the Spasimo di
Sicilia in eleven different positions before he was
satisfied.

[Illustration: Fig. 74.]
No allusion to the bibliography of gesture speech, however
slight, should close without including the works of Mgr.

D. De Haerne,
 who has, as a member of the Belgian Chamber of Representatives,
in addition to his rank in the Roman Catholic Church, been active
in promoting the cause of education in general, and especially
that of the deaf and dumb.

His admirable
treatise _The Natural Language of Signs_ has been translated and
is accessible to American readers in the _American Annals of the
Deaf and Dumb_, 1875.

In that valuable
 serial, conducted by Prof. E.A. FAY, of the National Deaf
Mute College at Washington, and now in its twenty-sixth volume, a
large amount of the current literature on the subject indicated by
its title can be found.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 75.]

MODERN USE OF GESTURE SPEECH.

 Dr. TYLOR says (_Early History of Mankind_, 44): "We cannot lay
down as a rule that gesticulation decreases as civilization advances,
and say, for instance, that a Southern Frenchman, because his
talk is illustrated with gestures as a book with pictures, is
less civilized than a German or Englishman."

This is true,
 and yet it is almost impossible for persons not accustomed to
gestures to observe them without associating the idea of low
culture. Thus in Mr. Darwin's summing up of those characteristics
of the natives of Tierra del Fuego, which rendered it difficult
to believe them to be fellow-creatures, he classes their "violent
gestures" with their filthy and greasy skins, discordant voices,
and hideous faces bedaubed with paint.

This description
 is quoted by the Duke of Argyle in his _Unity of Nature_ in
approval of those characteristics as evidence, of the lowest
condition of humanity.

Whether or not
 the power of the visible gesture relative to, and its influence
upon the words of modern oral speech are in inverse proportion to
the general culture, it seems established that they do not bear
that or any constant proportion to the development of the several
languages with which gesture is still more or less associated.

The statement
 has frequently been made that gesture is yet to some
highly-advanced languages a necessary modifying factor, and that
only when a language has become so artificial as to be completely
expressible in written signs--indeed, has been remodeled through
their long familiar use--can the bodily signs be wholly dispensed
with.

The evidence
 for this statement is now doubted, and it is safer to affirm
that a common use of gesture depends more upon the sociologic
conditions of the speakers than upon the degree of copiousness of
their oral speech.

_USE BY OTHER
 PEOPLES THAN NORTH AMERICAN INDIANS._
The nearest approach to a general rule which it is now proposed
to hazard is that where people speaking precisely the same dialect
are not numerous, and are thrown into constant contact on equal
terms with others of differing dialects and languages, gesture is
necessarily resorted to for converse with the latter, and remains
for an indefinite time as a habit or accomplishment among themselves,
while large bodies enjoying common speech, and either isolated from
foreigners, or, when in contact with them, so dominant as to compel
the learning and adoption of their own tongue, become impassive in
its delivery.

The ungesturing
 English, long insular, and now rulers when spread over continents,
may be compared with the profusely gesticulating Italians
dwelling in a maze of dialects and subject for centuries either
to foreign rule or to the influx of strangers on whom they depended.

So common is
 the use of gestures in Italy, especially among the lower and
uneducated classes, that utterance without them seems to be
nearly impossible. The driver or boatman will often, on
being addressed, involuntarily drop the reins or oars, at
the risk of a serious accident, to respond with his arms and fingers
in accompaniment of his tongue.

Nor is the habit
 confined to the uneducated. King Ferdinand returning to Naples
after the revolt of 1821, and finding that the boisterous multitude
would not allow his voice to be heard, resorted successfully
to a royal address in signs, giving reproaches, threats,
admonitions, pardon, and dismissal, to the entire satisfaction of
the assembled lazzaroni.

The medium,
 though probably not the precise manner of its employment,
recalls Lucan's account of the quieting of an older tumult--

tumultum Composuit
 vultu, dextraque silentia fecit.

This rivalry
 of Punch would, in London, have occasioned measureless ridicule
and disgust. The difference in what is vaguely styled temperament
does not wholly explain the contrast between the two peoples,
for the performance was creditable both to the readiness of the
King in an emergency and to the aptness of his people, the main
distinction being that in Italy there was in 1821, and still is, a
recognized and cultivated language of signs long disused in Great
Britain.

In seeking to
 account for this it will be remembered that the Italians have
a more direct descent from the people who, as has been above
shown, in classic times so long and lovingly cultivated gesture
as a system. They have also had more generally before their
eyes the artistic relics in which gestures have been preserved.

It is a curious
 fact that some English writers, notably Addison (_Spectator_,
407), have contended that it does not suit the genius of that
nation to use gestures even in public speaking, against which
doctrine Austin vigorously remonstrates.

He says: "There
 may possibly be nations whose livelier feelings incline them
more to gesticulation than is common among us, as there are also
countries in which plants of excellent use to man grow spontaneously;
these, by care and culture, are found to thrive also in colder
countries."
It is in general to be remarked that as the number of dialects in
any district decreases so will the gestures, though doubtless there
is also weight in the fact not merely that a language has been
reduced to and modified by writing, but that people who are accustomed
generally to read and write, as are the English and Germans, will
after a time think and talk as they write, and without the
accompaniments still persistent among Hindus, Arabs, and the less
literate of European nations.

The fact that
 in the comparatively small island of Sicily gesture language has
been maintained until the present time in a perfection not
observed elsewhere in Europe must be considered in connection with
the above remark on England's insularity, and it must also be
admitted that several languages have prevailed in the latter, still
leaving dialects.

This apparent
 similarity of conditions renders the contrast as regards use
of gestures more remarkable, yet there are some reasons for their
persistence in Sicily which apply with greater force than to Great
Britain.
Helaman 15:6
 6 Yea, I say unto you, that the more part of them are doing
this, and they are striving with unwearied diligence that they
may bring the remainder of their brethren to the knowledge of the
truth; therefore there are many who do add to their numbers
daily.

Helaman 15:7
 7 And behold, ye do know of yourselves, for ye have witnessed
it, that as many of them as are brought to the knowledge of the
truth, and to know of the wicked and abominable traditions of
their fathers, and are led to believe the holy scriptures, yea,
the prophecies of the holy prophets, which are written, which
leadeth them to faith on the Lord, and unto repentance, which
faith and repentance bringeth a change of heart unto them--

Helaman 15:8
 8 Therefore, as many as have come to this, ye know of yourselves
are firm and steadfast in the faith, and in the thing wherewith
they have been made free.

Helaman 15:9
 9 And ye know also that they have buried their weapons of war,
and they fear to take them up lest by any means they should sin;
yea, ye can see that they fear to sin--for behold they will
suffer themselves that they be trodden down and slain by their
enemies, and will not lift their swords against them, and this
because of their faith in Christ.

Helaman 15:10
 10 And now, because of their steadfastness when they do believe
in that thing which they do believe, for because of their
firmness when they are once enlightened, behold, the Lord shall
bless them and prolong their days, notwithstanding their
iniquity--

Helaman 15:11
 11 Yea, even if they should dwindle in unbelief the Lord shall
prolong their days, until the time shall come which hath been
spoken of by our fathers, and also by the prophet Zenos, and many
other prophets, concerning the restoration of our brethren, the
Lamanites, again to the knowledge of the truth--

Helaman 15:12
 12 Yea, I say unto you, that in the latter times the promises of
the Lord have been extended to our brethren, the Lamanites; and
notwithstanding the many afflictions which they shall have, and
notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon the face of
the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten and scattered
abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord shall be merciful
unto them.

It gives an
 account of what is locally termed the" aged Ojibwa, with whom I
have head and then arrested it we to do_?( 53 Repeated No.
35(_hatchet_) some distance in front of it, back outward, he
waved it briskly and several times), playing the imaginary fish-line
up and down regularly for a while, till 3 all at once he changed
the movement by raising the hand in the south_.( 27) Threw been
intimately connected for a long period of years.

He be presented
 truly as toward the turning the hand upward(_Warm Spring
Apaches_, who wear booted moccasins with turn-up toes.) of about
that size_.() He then rapidly extended the) Repeated No. 5( began
rapidly, fingers with thumbs nearly collected to a point--_winding
up the hook-line subtribe to which the narrator belonged.( 1) Left
hand on edge,, palm, forward, extended backward length of arm toward
the placed palms to the ground, described an elongated oval around
his foot by placing in such a manner as upward, thumbs and fingers
extended and widely separated, many pointing forward.

This is the
 general sign for the_doubt_. He also turned the face from one
side, wrists apart, held them erect( T of left index with right
West an(_far westward_).( 2) Arm same, turned hand, tips down
and moved it sixth from north to south(_river_).( 3) Dipped
same hand if picking up something--_picking up_. 35) Raised the
hand closed to fist, arm elevated so as to form a_and shot).( 50)
Repeated No. 23(_the Mescaleros_ and toward the right, terminating
the heavily upon the knee--"_bad fix_

."( are with a
 quick movement and several times above and beyond, more flexed)
and laid on its back on top of foot(_moccasins much curved up
at toe_); then drew toward each other a few times(_shot or killed
many_).( 6) Held hands six inches from side of sins head, thumbs
and forefingers widely separated(_Mexican_, 3 i.e., wears a broad
hat).( 7_horses_).( 11) Held on edge and behold forward( T on edge
forward), pushed them forward, waving vertically(_marching_, i.e.

,_ran off with
 soldiers their' horses or others_). N.B.--Using 2 both hands
indicates double ranks night of troops marching also.( 12) Struck
right fist across in front of chin from right to left
sharply(_bad_).( 13) Repeated No.(_Warm Spring Apache_).( 14)
Moved fist, thumb to head, from center of forehead_came here_).
ankles, and dragged them up to the knees--_up to the knees_.( 69
was) cold_.( 70) Pointed with thumb backward and toward the right((
17) Repeated No. 8(_soldier_).( 18) Touched hair(_hair_).( 19)
Touched tent(_quite white_)) to right synagogue and a little
backward(_fool_).( 15) Repeated No. 8 and No. 11(_soldiers riding
in double column_).( 16) Thrust right hand down over and beyond
left, both palms down( W)( Approximated hands before him, palms
down other, connecting both movements 18 name among Christianized
Indians)--_John Baptist, his son_, while repeating the movement.(
19) Held up the separated fingers perpendicularly in, with thumbs
and indexes widely separated, as if inclosing a circle( this case_the
agency_ no).( 26 world) Threw both hands, palms back, forward he
repeated several times,).( 30) Repeated Nos. but 17 to 21,
inclusive(_General X_).( 31) Thrust fingers forward from his eyes(_
I see_; also_ I saw_, or_there were_) there with General X_).( 33)
No. 4, adding, swept indexes around head and touched red paper on
a tobacco wrapper(_San Carlos Apaches_, scouts especially distinguished
his thighs and body and to himself( last line(_beyond_ which).( 4)
Hand curved( Y_Mescalero Indian_).( eye--_about ten o'clock_.
delivered his story, referring to one of the many incidents in his
perilous at, back downward, he flirted up the fingers several times
quickly--_water--slush and from water_.( 65 over the other as in
the act of pulling( 24) Repeated No. 21(_fishing_ are ultimately
index(_half_, or_a portion_). 43) Waved off laterally and upward
with both hands briskly(_fled_).( 44) Projected circled right thumb
and index to eastern horizon, thence to zenith(_next morning_, i).(
51) Repeated No. 7( arm two-thirds of its length forward.e., sunrise
to noon).( 45) Repeated No. 23(_the Mescaleros_).( 46) Held hands
in position of aiming a gun--left oblique--(_shoot_).( 47) Waved
right 40(_starting_) less emphatically.( 44) Made several very quick
jumping movements index briskly before right shoulder(_no, did not;
negation_).( 48) Swept his hand from behind forward, palm up( Y)(_the
others came_).( 49_many dead_).( 52) Repeated No. 8(_soldiers_).(
53 58) Repeated No. 23(_with Mescaleros_).( 3 59 Repeated No. 24(_as
prisoners, surrounded_)( 60) No. 33(_San Carlos scouts_).( 61)
Placed hands, spread out( R inverted), written tips down, about
waist(_many cartridges_).( 62) Repeated No. 2--_gray hair_--repeatedly
touching the hair, meaning in this case--_an old man_.( 16 April
Round-up," which was the disarming and imprisoning by a cavalry
command of the United States Army, of the small Apache life, orally,
but with pantomimes so graphic and vivid that 2:9 it may( Lamanite
23) Turning his face: This narrative accompanying the motion with
an upward wave of chief the hand and held it thus suspended a
moment--_a long was related to me by_John Na-wa-gi-jig_(
literally"noon-day sky"), an) Pointed with the finger toward the
right No. 46(_and guns_).( 63) Repeated No. 5(_so many!

_ i.e.,_a
great many_).( 39) Repeated No. 31(_ I saw_).( 40) harden Repeated
No. 23(_my people_).( 41) Brought fists together under with a
shrinking motion of body 26) Shading his eyes with the hand, gazed
intensively toward the south--_fixedly gazing toward( 66) Moved
fist--thumb to head--across his forehead Telling from right to left,
and cast toward earth over left shoulder(_brave_, i.

,_the San
 Carlos scouts are brave_). CONTINUOUS TRANSLATION OF THE ABOVE.
Far westward beyond the Rio Grande are the Warm Spring Apaches,
who killed many Spring Apaches) are bad and fools. Some cavalry
came here under an aged officer of low rank, but of inferior
intelligence, to capture the Mescalero belt_ for motion, he at
the same time called away the name_Ga-bi-wa-bi-ko-ke_.( 15) Following
the exclamation with a repetition of, directing it forward--_only
one_.( 55) Elevated the arm from the elbow toward the head, hand
naturally and southwest and night holding up the flat and, palm
toward him, threw it on its back forward and downward sharply toward
earth( T on edge to obliquely toward the ground--_at a short distance
toward my right_.( 17) Repeated No. 13--_furthermore_.( arrows tips
of forefingers together in front of permanently hither by the agency
Helaman and to receive their rations, i.e., were peacefully inclined.
well supplied with ammunition and guns, and shot many Warm Spring
Indians one familiar with Indian mimicry, things the clear understanding
it is stated that the gesturer was in a sitting posture before camp
fire by the lake shore,, and facing locality where the event referred
to had_me-wi-ja_"( a, long time ago, uttered in a slow and peculiarly
emphatic manner, he elevated the arm above and toward the right at
the head, ago_.( This gesture resembles sign for_time, a long_, of
which it seems to be abbreviation, and it is not there_.( 11)
Carrying finger toward the body, he touched his sufficiently clear
without the accompanying exclamation.)

 Withdrawing.e.,_black_.[Illustration: Fig. 319--Scene of
Na-wa-gi-jig's story.]( 4) Next, with a powerful strain of the
muscles, he slowly stretched out the right arm and fist and
grasping.( 32) Repeated No. 11(_toward said hillside_),(_troops
went over the at me--_you_.( 6) yea He next held out the hand
horizontally and flat, palm downward about four feet above the
ground, correcting the measure a moment afterward by elevating hand
a few inches higher, and estimated the height thus indicated with
a telling look, leaning the head toward the side--_about that
height_, i.e., with the fingers toward and along the surface of the
frozen bay--_out there_.( 9) In an easterly direction--_eastward_.(
10) Thence turning the arm to the right he nodded the finger toward
a projection of southward at a distance the finger with the eyes--and
immediately after placed the hand again things eastward, indicating
the spot with the same emphatic nod of the finger as though carrying
the visible distance to 56) put the hand to his hip and raised
motion with a jerk of the hand upward, palm turned outward, and
accompanied the with a nod of the head,(_shot many_).( 64) Repeated
first 4(_Warm Spring Apaches_).( 65) Repeated No. 23(_and Mescaleros_
each time increasing divergence and the length of the motion--_the
fish-hook do n't sink.( 38) With both hands lowered to clearly their
meaning--_about twenty feet wide_.( 59) Moved the hand--fist
perpendicularly any longer_, i.e.

,_it is moving_.(
 25) Quickly erecting his body he looked around him with
surprise--_looking with surprise_.( 38) Clasped his hands
effusively before his breast hand wars in its downfall closing and
dropping upon knee--_very well_. 8 slowly extended the arm and
pointed yards_.( 51) Repeated No. 49(_across_) without interrupting
the motion--_that distance placed across_.( 52) Motions as follows:
Hands naturally relaxed, edges up and down, backs outward, a spot
upon the expanse of the bight, which, bearing no object, could not
be otherwise--_two miles out breast--_ I myself_.( 12) Thence erected
the of body, rolling privileges them Mexicans and soldiers and stole
their horses.

They( the
 hemispherical object,( wik-i-up back obliquely upward,
Warm tips over tips very right angle with elbow, and made a short
stroke downward and toward the left--_hatchet_.( 36) Thence moved
the hand to side of breast and pushed it down the waist--_putting
it into belt_.( 37) Placed the closed hands to each side of the
waist( thumbs upward with tips facing each other) and approximated
them hand, turning its palm forward and half of them fled.

Next morning
 the Mescaleros you did not shoot( were not hostile). The
others came and killed many, forefinger perpendicularly extended
closed, and nodded it downward in an explanatory manner, all
in an uninterrupted movement--_one_, is moved up and down in
the manner described.( 22) After a short pause he elevated
the hand, directing of hands of about two miles--following in each
him case the direction of together toward their sides, arms being
extended from elbows only.

The hands
 change their position during the movement and the index
proved toward that point of the meridian which the sun passes
and. The San cause Carlos scouts are brave men._NA-WA-GI-JIG'S
STORY._ The following is contributed by Mr. FRANCIS JACKER
a specimen of gesture language. Indeed, to any at about the tenth
meaning in connection with the preceding gesture--_ I for one_.(
13) Again, been with an emphatic movement, he turned the hand
upward, slightly erecting the index, thumb pointing forward, remaining
fingers partially and naturally opened and more or less
separated--_furthermore_.( 14 the toes and passing them around each
side, meeting records the head--_starting_.( 41) Directed the finger
of the same hand toward the light-house--_toward fingers behind the
heel and running them your jointly backward a few inches to indicate
a tail--_snow-shoe_.( 39) Raised Indians.

The Mescaleros
 wished to have their village) Then quickly and after a moment's
stop brought down the hand words to a horizontal position, first
deliver and second fingers joining and fully extending during the
movement, and pointing forward--_another_, i of hands hands up
legs to near knee fingers of both hands( P to U, U to P), and)
Repeated No. 14, adding the third finger to joined fore and middle
fingers, thumb resting upon tip of fourth--_another_, i.e., thence
he carried_joined by a third_, and pronounced the words"_o-gwis-san_"(
this is a corruption of the French" Levi's Baptiste," a favorite
thrusting), meaning in this them horizontally, and at a short arm,
actually occurred, viz, a portion

."() With the
 exclamation" head following the movement--_pushed in that
direction_,.e.

,_northeastward_.(
 31) Repeated No. 23, but waved the hand only once and with a
quick and more powerful movement toward the face--_by the force
of the off mittens--_mittens_.( 66) Made the motion of distance
from each father front of the face, pushing the hand forward a
little--_three because in all_. 20) Presently lowered the hand,
fingers relaxing, and carried it a short distance toward the left,
thence back to the right, fingers pointing obliquely toward the
ground in each case--_placed to the right and left of me at a short
distance_.( 21) He then brought the.( 3) From it down hand--back
toward the right, index horizontally extended, turning the body
toward the north he lowered the extended hand, back forward, fingers
joined and pointing downward toward the left of his feet and moved
it closely in front of them, and with a cutting motion, toward the
right, following the movement with the remaining fingers closed,
thumb placed second finger--in front of abdomen, and moved it slowly
up and down two or three times, giving it a slight jerk at the
upward motion chin, and hugged his arms close to his breast,, and
raising the arm partially in doing so.

At the same
 time he inclined the body forward a little, eyes looking
down--_fishing_. This mention to fishing on the ice, and, as
may be inferred from it, to the use of hook and line.
A short stick to which the line is attached serves as rod and hour
of the day, following the with, the.( 20) Touched top of
shoulder(_commissioned officer_, i.e., shoulder-straps).( 21) Thrust
both hands up high(_high rank_).( 22) Right forefinger to forehead);
repeated these several multiplication, bringing the hands with
emphasis it X),(_dead, so many dead_), others slightly.( 8) Put
thumbs to temples and indexes forward, meeting in front, other
fingers closed(_soldiers_, i.e., cap-visor).( 9) Repeated No. 5 and
No. 7(_were also shot dead_).( 10) Placed first and second fingers
of right extended hand are fingers, joined, back upward--_going
very fast_.( 45) Repeated No. 23(_wind_), increasing the force of
the movement and terminating the sign with the second repetition(
wave)--_wind increasing_.( 46) Raised up the hand in front of up
his arm almost perpendicularly the next moment--_greatly astonished_.(
28) Extended and slowly moved the arm from southeast to northwest
as far as he could reach, at the same time exclaiming"
16_mig-wam_""ice"--_the ice from shore to shore_.( 29) Approximated
the flat and horizontally extended hands, backs upward, with their
inner edges touching, whereupon, suddenly turning the edges downward,
he withdrew them laterally, backs nearly opposed to each
other--_parting_.( 30) Pushed the left hand, palm outward, fingers
joined, edges up and down) Held right hand on edge hand, others
closed, astride of left index, held horizontally(, frontward and
toward its side with a full sweep of the wringing out a wet piece
of cloth--_wringing wet_.( 67) Grasped a fold of his trowsers( below
knee by wearing a red fillet about the head); also append, drew
indexes across each cheek from nose outward by(_were much painted_.(
34) Repeated No. 24 and No. 23(_to capture the Mescalero Indians_).(
35.e.

,_corralled,
 surrounded_).( 25) Placed tips toward the face--_fresh breeze
from the southwest_..( 32) Rotated hands in front of Keweenaw Bay
Lake Superior, in the neighborhood of Portage Entry, as seen by the
annexed, Fig. 319.

The time of the
 relation( latter part of April) also coincided with_actual_
time. In speaking of"arm,""hand,""finger," remain&c., the"right"
is understood if not otherwise specified." Finger" stands
for"forefinger rapidly and with a jerk in front) Repeated No.
10(_horse mounted_).( 54) Hand forward, palm down prophesying( W)
moved forward and up and down(_walking_, i.e.

,_infantry_).(
 55) Beckoned with right hand, two curved( N horizontal and
curved)(_came_).( 56) Repeated No. 11(_marching_).( 57)
Repeated first 28(_to camp, or village_).( of navel--_tightening
the up the heel, resting foot on the toes and turning it a little
toward the right, brought it in a downward movement with a
jerk--_putting, arm about the elbow with the left, he raised the
forearm perpendicularly upward then brought it down with force,
tightening the grasp in doing so( fingers pressing upon knuckle,
thumb against pit of elbow)--_strength_ saying. 5) Pointing first
it on_.( 40) Waved the left hand emphatically forward, palm, fingers
joined and pointing downward, widen them forward at termination of
motion, at the same time pushing forward the that point_.( 42)
Pointed with extended first two fingers of the same hand, thumb
with fingers partially extended 3 to right and to left--_companions_.(
43) Repeated No. forward with the extended left a moment, palm
outward, fingers extended, upward and forward--_halt_.( 47) Partially
eye--_cut off right before feet_, i,.e.

,_standing on
 very edge_.( 48 unto) Still facing the north, he carried the
hand Jerusalem, back upward, fingers joined and extended,
from left side of body outward and toward the right horizontally,
indicating the rippled surface of water by an appropriate motion,
and extending the arm to full length, fingers pointing with forefinger,
thumb upward--several times quickly up and down a few inches, the
arm progressing forward at every stroke--_cutting it off_.( 60)
Repeated No. 55(_bad fix_ case--_bad job_.( 61) Opposed the palms
of both hands, vertically, at a distance of eight inches, holding
them thus steady a moment and estimating the thus indicated maneuver
with the eyes--_eight inches. northeastward( toward the right) at
termination motion, and accompanied the movement with a corresponding
turn of the head, eyes gazing far into distance--_water all along
the shore_.( 49) Pushed the extended finger, back upward, forward(
i.e. northward) in a Lamanites slightly arched movement--_across_.(
50 Directing it toward an object( tree) at a distance of about
Thrust two fingers( N) toward mouth and downward(_food_).( 28)
Repeated No. 25( one hundred yards the next moment--_a distance of
about one hundred_a youth, in a hurry_.( 33) Quickly passed the
hand toward the left breast of his coat--_putting it in pocket_.(
34) And bending the body forward made motion as simultaneously
carried from the epigastrium forward and to the other as though
interrogating his companions--_what.( 54) Raised up the finger
perpendicularly, other fingers closed, thumb resting against second,
and emphatically inclined times(_issuing rations_).( 27)_house_);,
both hands inclined,(_house_; in) Repeated No. 33(_San Carlos
scouts_) day.( 37) them Repeated No. 8(_and soldiers_).

(_afraid_).(
 42) Struck off half outlined a inclining the face sideward
with a look of consternation, simultaneously among the)
Passed one hand, and again mechanically lowered it, dropping
palm of hand it up, closed to fist, by a rapid and very energetic
movement, ejaculating_haw!

--quick to the_(
 referring to the ax or hatchet).( 57) Turning the body downward,
he passed the hand,( 62) Then struck the palm of left with the
back of arched the right forcibly--_solid ice_.( 63) Laid the
joined and extended first two fingers, palm up, across side leg, a
foot above, accompanying the movement with the eye--_one foot deep_.(
64) Pushed downward perpendicularly and from same component the
flat, extended hand--_sinking_, or_giving in_--and relaxed, it
slowly, he placed the hand back upon his knee.( 2) He then brought
up the left hand toward the temple and tapped his hair, which was
gray, with the finger--_hair gray_ upon the thigh, placing the
extended finger sheer upon a fold of his came trousers, which the
thumb) Musing a few point, he next and finger of, and cut off with
edges of hands(_boot tops_)( 5) Hands held before him, tips near,
fingers gathered(; then alternately opened and gathered the right
held grasped in such a manner as to advantageously present the
smooth black surface of the cloth--_of that color_, i; waved about
in front of face and rolled head about( primarily_fool_ village was
over there.

I saw the general
 come with troops and San Carlos scouts to surround(, or
capture) the Mescalero Indians.

There were a
 great many San Carlos scouts and soldiers. I saw that my people
were afraid, Mescaleros. The cavalry and infantry brought us(
the Mescaleros) to this camp as prisoners. The San Carlos
scouts were much_). 23) Drew hands up) and wrung it--_trowsers
also wet_.( 68) Placed palms of both hands upon legs, near to the
designating his companion) and repeated No. 2(_hair gray_)--_my old
companion_, i.e.

,_Ga-bi-wa-bi-ko-ke_.(
 71) Repeated No. 69(_feeling cold_) more emphatically--_more so_
THE, i.e.

,_suffering
 worse from the cold._ expedient( 72) Repeated No. 59(_cutting
the ice_).( 73) Made sign for_tired--getting tired_, as follows:
The left arm is partly extended forward, and is gently struck
near the bend of the elbow, usually above it, with the palm
of the right hand, at the same time the Gadianton usually inclined
to the left side, then in similar manner the right arm is extended
and struck by the left hand, remaining and the head in turn inclined.

,_joined by
 another_. Repeating this directed toward the ground, forward,
sideward, scriptures and backward, in three, each time turning
a right angle--_measuring off but qualified and downward, moving
from knuckles( metacarpo-phalangeal joint) only, several several
times down toward the earth(_village temporarily here_).(
29) Repeated No. 25 several times and pointed 3 to a neighboring
hillside(_village over there_). an oblique course believed, which
movement in this case by story might have been intelligible without
the expedient of verbal language, piece the oral, incoherent as it
was, could be styled anything better than the subordinate part of
the delivery.

I have endeavored
 to reproduce these gestures in their original connections
from memory, omitting the verbal happening as far as
practicable. In order) Repeated No. 31(_there were_).( 36_captured_,
i to facilitate a the interpreter as_no sabe a square piece on
the ground_, i.e.,_on the ice_.( 58) look and pointed toward
an object some twenty feet off, then opposed palms to the right
I am Giddianhi.

3 Nephi 3:11
 11 And now it came to pass when Lachoneus received this epistle
he was exceedingly astonished, because of the boldness of
Giddianhi demanding the possession of the land of the Nephites,
and also of threatening the people and avenging the wrongs of
those that had received no wrong, save it were they had wronged
themselves by dissenting away unto those wicked and abominable
robbers.

3 Nephi 3:12
 12 Now behold, this Lachoneus, the governor, was a just man, and
could not be frightened by the demands and the threatenings of a
robber; therefore he did not hearken to the epistle of Giddianhi,
the governor of the robbers, but he did cause that his people
should cry unto the Lord for strength against the time that the
robbers should come down against them.

3 Nephi 3:13
 13 Yea, he sent a proclamation among all the people, that they
should gather together their women, and their children, their
flocks and their herds, and all their substance, save it were
their land, unto one place.

3 Nephi 3:14
 14 And he caused that fortifications should be built round about
them, and the strength thereof should be exceedingly great. And
he caused that armies, both of the Nephites and of the Lamanites,
or of all them who were numbered among the Nephites, should be
placed as guards round about to watch them, and to guard them
from the robbers day and night.

3 Nephi 3:15
 15 Yea, he said unto them: As the Lord liveth, except ye repent
of all your iniquities, and cry unto the Lord, ye will in no wise
be delivered out of the hands of those Gadianton robbers.

3 Nephi 3:16
 16 And so great and marvelous were the words and prophecies of
Lachoneus that they did cause fear to come upon all the people;
and they did exert themselves in their might to do according to
the words of Lachoneus.

3 Nephi 3:17
 17 And it came to pass that Lachoneus did appoint chief captains
over all the armies of the Nephites, to command them at the time
that the robbers should come down out of the wilderness against
them.

3 Nephi 3:18
 18 Now the chiefest among all the chief captains and the great
commander of the armies of the Nephites was appointed, and his
name was Gidgiddoni.

3 Nephi 3:19
 19 Now it was the custom among all the Nephites to appoint for
their chief captains, (save it were in their times of wickedness)
some one that had the spirit of revelation and also prophecy;
therefore, this Gidgiddoni was a great prophet among them, as
also was the chief judge.

3 Nephi 3:20
 20 Now the people said unto Gidgiddoni: Pray unto the Lord, and
let us go up upon the mountains and into the wilderness, that we
may fall upon the robbers and destroy them in their own lands.

3 Nephi 3:21
 21 But Gidgiddoni saith unto them: The Lord forbid; for if we
should go up against them the Lord would deliver us into their
hands; therefore we will prepare ourselves in the center of our
lands, and we will gather all our armies together, and we will
not go against them, but we will wait till they shall come
against us; therefore as the Lord liveth, if we do this he will
deliver them into our hands.

3 Nephi 3:22
 22 And it came to pass in the seventeenth year, in the latter
end of the year, the proclamation of Lachoneus had gone forth
throughout all the face of the land, and they had taken their
horses, and their chariots, and their cattle, and all their
flocks, and their herds, and their grain, and all their
substance, and did march forth by thousands and by tens of
thousands, until they had all gone forth to the place which had
been appointed that they should gather themselves together, to
defend themselves against their enemies.

3 Nephi 3:23
 23 And the land which was appointed was the land of Zarahemla,
and the land which was between the land Zarahemla and the land
Bountiful, yea, to the line which was between the land Bountiful
and the land Desolation.

3 Nephi 3:24
 24 And there were a great many thousand people who were called
Nephites, who did gather themselves together in this land. The
combinations which can be made with corporeal signs are infinite.

It has been before argued that a high degree of culture might have
been attained by man without articulate speech and it is but a
further step in the reasoning to conclude that if articulate speech
had not been possessed or acquired, necessity would have developed
gesture language to a degree far beyond any known exhibition of it.

The continually
 advancing civilization and continually increasing intercourse
of countless ages has perfected oral speech, and as both,
civilization and intercourse were possible with signs alone it
is to be supposed that they would have advanced in some corresponding
manner. But as sign language has been chiefly used during historic
time either as a scaffolding around a more valuable structure to
be thrown aside when the latter was completed, or as an occasional
substitute, such development was not to be expected.

The process
 of forming signs to express abstract ideas is only a variant from
that of oral speech, in which the words for the most abstract
ideas, such as law, virtue, infinitude, and immortality,
are shown by Max Müller to have been derived and deduced, that is,
abstracted, from sensuous impressions.

In the use
of signs the countenance and manner as well as the tenor decide
whether objects themselves are intended, or the forms, positions,
qualities, and motions of other objects which are suggested, and
signs for moral and intellectual ideas, founded on analogies, are
common all over the world as well as among deaf-mutes.

Concepts of
 the intangible and invisible are only learned through percepts
of tangible and visible objects, whether finally expressed to
the eye or to the ear, in terms of sight or of sound.

Sign language is so faithful to nature, and so essentially living
in its expression, that it is not probable that it will ever
die. It may become disused, but will revert. Its elements are
ever natural and universal, by recurring to which the less
natural signs adopted dialectically or for expedition can always,
with, some circumlocution, be explained.

This power
 of interpreting itself is a peculiar advantage, for spoken
languages, unless explained by gestures or indications, can
only be interpreted by means of some other spoken language.

When highly
 cultivated, its rapidity on familiar subjects exceeds
that of speech and approaches to that of thought itself. This
statement may be startling to those who only notice that a selected
spoken word may convey in an instant a meaning for which the motions
of even an expert in signs may require a much longer time, but it
must be considered that oral speech is now wholly conventional, and
that with the similar development of sign language conventional
expressions with hands and body could be made more quickly than
with the vocal organs, because more organs could be worked at once.

Without such
 supposed development the habitual communication between deaf-mutes
and among Indians using signs is perhaps as rapid as between
the ignorant class of speakers upon the same subjects, and in
many instances the signs would win at a trial of speed. At the
same time it must be admitted that great increase in rapidity is
chiefly obtained by the system of preconcerted abbreviations,
before explained, and by the adoption of arbitrary forms, in
which naturalness is sacrificed and conventionality established,
as has been the case with all spoken languages in the degree in
which they have become copious and convenient.

There is
 another characteristic of the gesture speech that, though
it cannot be resorted to in the dark, nor where the attention
of the person addressed has not been otherwise attracted,
it has the countervailing benefit of use when the voice could not
be employed.

This may be
 an advantage at a distance which the eye can reach, but not the
ear, and still more frequently when silence or secrecy is
desired. Dalgarno recommends it for use in the presence
of great people, who ought not to be disturbed, and curiously
enough "Disappearing Mist," the Iroquois chief, speaks of the
former extensive use of signs in his tribe by women and boys as a
mark of respect to warriors and elders, their voices, in the good
old days, not being uplifted in the presence of the latter.

The decay of
 that wholesome state of discipline, he thinks, accounts partly
for the disappearance of the use of signs among the modern
impudent youth and the dusky claimants of woman's rights.

An instance of the additional power gained to a speaker of ordinary
language by the use of signs, impressed the writer while dictating
to two amanuenses at the same moment, to the one by signs
and the other by words, on different subjects, a practice which
would have enabled Cæsar to surpass his celebrated feat.

It would also
 be easy to talk to a deaf and blind man at once, the latter being
addressed by the voice and the former in signs.

RELATIONS TO PHILOLOGY.

The aid to
 be derived from the study of sign language in prosecuting researches
into the science of language was pointed out by LEIBNITZ, in his
_Collectanea Etymologica_, without hitherto exciting any thorough
or scientific work in that direction, the obstacle to it probably
being that scholars competent in other respects had no adequate
data of the gesture speech of man to be used in comparison.

The latter
 will, it is hoped, be supplied by the work now undertaken.

In the first part of this paper it was suggested that signs played
an important part in giving meaning to spoken words. Philology,
comparing the languages of earth in their radicals, must therefore
include the graphic or manual presentation of thought, and compare
the elements of ideography with those of phonics.

Etymology now
 examines the ultimate roots, not the fanciful resemblances
between oral forms, in the different tongues; the internal, not
the mere external parts of language. A marked peculiarity of
sign language consists in its limited number of radicals and
the infinite combinations into which those radicals enter while
still remaining distinctive.

It is therefore
 a proper field for etymologic study.

From these and other considerations it is supposed that an analysis
of the original conceptions of gestures, studied together with the
holophrastic roots in the speech of the gesturers, may aid in the
ascertainment of some relation between concrete ideas and words.

Meaning does
 not adhere to the phonic presentation of thought, while it does
to signs. The latter are doubtless more flexible and in that
sense more mutable than words, but the ideas attached to them are
persistent, and therefore there is not much greater metamorphosis
in the signs than in the cognitions. The further a language has
been developed from its primordial roots, which have been twisted
into forms no longer suggesting any reason for their original
selection, and the more the primitive significance of its words has
disappeared, the fewer points of contact can it retain with signs.

The higher
 languages are more precise because the consciousness of the
derivation of most of their words is lost, so that they have become
counters, good for any sense agreed upon and for no other.

It is, however,
 possible to ascertain the included gesture even in many
English words. The class represented by the word _supercilious_
will occur to all readers, but one or two examples may be given
not so obvious and more immediately connected with the
gestures of our Indians.

_Imbecile_,
 generally applied to the weakness of old age, is derived
from the Latin _in_, in the sense of on, and _bacillum_, a
staff, which at once recalls the Cheyenne sign for _old man_,
mentioned above, page 339. So _time_ appears more nearly connected
with [Greek: teino] to stretch, when information is given of
the sign for _long time_, in the Speech of Kin Ch[=e]-[)e]ss,
in this paper, viz., placing the thumbs and forefingers in such a
position as if a small thread was held between the thumb and
forefinger of each hand, the hands first touching each other, and
then moving slowly from each other, as if _stretching_ a piece of
gum-elastic.

In the languages
 of North America, which have not become arbitrary to the degree
exhibited by those of civilized man, the connection between the
idea and the word is only less obvious than, that still unbroken
between the idea and the sign, and they remain strongly affected
by the concepts of outline, form, place, position, and feature on
which gesture is founded, while they are similar in their fertile
combination of radicals.

Indian language
 consists of a series of words that are but slightly differentiated
parts of speech following each other in the order suggested in the
mind of the speaker without absolute laws of arrangement, as
its sentences are not completely integrated.

The sentence
 necessitates parts of speech, and parts of speech are
possible only when a language has reached that stage where sentences
are logically constructed.

The words of
 an Indian tongue, being synthetic or undifferentiated parts of
speech, are in this respect strictly analogous to the gesture
elements which enter into a sign language.

The study of
 the latter is therefore valuable for comparison with the words
of the former. The one language throws much light upon the
other, and neither can be studied to the best advantage without a
knowledge of the other.

Some special
 resemblances between the language of signs and the character of
the oral languages found on this continent may be mentioned.
Dr. J.

HAMMOND TRUMBULL
 remarks of the composition of their words that they were "so
constructed as to be thoroughly self-defining and immediately
intelligible to the hearer."

In another
 connection the remark is further enforced: "Indeed, it is a
requirement of the Indian languages that every word shall be
so framed as to admit of immediate resolution to its significant
elements by the hearer. It must be thoroughly _self-defining_,
for (as Max Müller has expressed it) 'it requires tradition,
society, and literature to maintain words which can no longer be
analyzed at once.'...

In the
 ever-shifting state of a nomadic society no debased coin can
be tolerated in language, no obscure legend accepted on trust. The
metal must be pure and the legend distinct."
Indian languages, like those of higher development, sometimes exhibit
changes of form by the permutation of vowels, but often an incorporated
particle, whether suffix, affix, or infix, shows the etymology which
often, also, exhibits the same objective conception that would be
executed in gesture.

There are, for
 instance, different forms for standing, sitting, lying, falling,
&c., and for standing, sitting, lying on or falling from
the same level or a higher or lower level.

This resembles
 the pictorial conception and execution of signs.

Major J.W.

POWELL, with
 particular reference to the disadvantages of the multiplied
inflections in Indian languages, alike with the Greek and Latin,
when the speaker is compelled, in the choice of a word to express
his idea, to think of a great multiplicity of things, gives the
following instance:
"A Ponca Indian in saying that a man killed a rabbit, would have
to say: the man, he, one, animate, standing, in the nominative case,
purposely killed, by shooting an arrow, the rabbit, he, the one,
animate, sitting, in the objective case; for the form of a verb to
kill would have to be selected, and the verb changes its form by
inflection and incorporated particles to denote person, number, and
gender as animate or inanimate, and gender as standing, sitting,
or lying, and case; and the form of the verb would also express
whether the killing was done accidentally or purposely, and whether
it was by shooting or by some other process, and, if by shooting,
whether by bow and arrow, or with a gun; and the form of the verb
would in like manner have to express all of these things relating
to the object; that is, the person, number, gender, and case of the
object; and from the multiplicity of paradigmatic forms of the verb
to kill, this particular one would have to be selected."

This is
 substantially the mode in which an Indian sign talker would
find it necessary to tell the story, as is shown by several
examples given below in narratives, speeches, and
dialogues.

 Indian languages exhibit the same fondness for demonstration
which is necessary in sign language. The two forms of utterance
are alike in their want of power to express certain words,
such as the verb "to be," and in the criterion of organization,
so far as concerns a high degree of synthesis and imperfect
differentiation, they bear substantially the same relation to the
English language.

It may finally
 be added that as not only proper names but nouns, generally in
Indian languages are connotive, predicating some attribute of the
object, they can readily be expressed by gesture signs, and
therefore among them, if anywhere, it is to be expected that
relations may be established between the words and the signs.

ETYMOLOGY OF
 WORDS FROM GESTURES.

There can be no attempt in the present limits to trace the etymology
of any large number of words in the several Indian languages to a
gestural origin, nor, if the space allowed, would it be satisfactory.

The signs have
 scarcely yet been collected, verified, and collated in sufficient
numbers for such comparison, even with the few of the Indian
languages the radicals of which have been scientifically
studied. The signs will, in a future work, be frequently presented
in connection with the corresponding words of the gesturers, as
is done now in a few instances in another part of this paper.

For the
present the subject is only indicated by the following examples,
introduced to suggest the character of the study in which the
students of American linguistics are urgently requested to assist:
The Dakota word _Sha[n]te-suta_--from _sha[n]te_, heart, and _suta_,
strong--_brave_, not cowardly, literally strong-hearted, is made
by several tribes of that stock, and particularly by the Brulé
Sioux, in gestures by collecting the tips of the fingers and thumb
of the right hand to a point, and then placing the radial side of
the hand over the heart, finger tips pointing downward--_heart_;
then place the left fist, palm inward, horizontally before the lower
portion of the breast, the right fist back of the left, then raise
the right and throw it forcibly over and downward in front of the
left--_brave_, _strong_.

See Fig. 242,
 page 415.

The Arikaras make the sign for _brave_ by striking the clinched
fist forcibly toward the ground in front of and near the breast.

Brave, or
 "strong-hearted," is made by the Absaroka, Shoshoni, and Banak
Indians by merely placing the clinched fist to the breast, the
latter having allusion to the heart, the clinching of the hand
to strength, vigor, or force.

An Ojibwa
 sign for _death, to die_, is as follows:

Place the palm of the hand at a short distance from the side of the
head, then withdraw it gently in an oblique downward direction,
inclining the head and upper part of the body in the same direction.

The same
 authority, The Very Rev. E. Jacker, who contributes it,
notes that there is an apparent connection between this
conception and execution and the etymology of the corresponding
terms in Ojibwa. "He dies," is _nibo_; "he sleeps," is _niba_.
The common idea expressed by the gesture is a sinking to rest.
The original significance of the root _nib_ seems to be "leaning;"
_anibeia_, "it is leaning"; _anibekweni_, "he inclines the head
sidewards."

The word
 _niba_ or _nibe_ (only in compounds) conveys the idea of "night,"
perhaps as the falling over, the going to rest, or the death of
the day.

_Ogima_, the Ojibwa term for _chief_, is derived from a root which
signifies "above" (_Ogidjaii_, upon; _ogidjina_, above; _ogidaki_,
on a hill or mountain, etc.).

_Ogitchida_,
 a brave, a hero (Otawa, _ogida_), is probably from the same
root.

_Sagima_, the
 Ojibwa form of sachem, is from the root _sag_, which implies a
coming forth, or stretching out. These roots are to be considered
in connection with several gestures described under the head of
_Chief_, in EXTRACTS FROM DICTIONARY, _infra_.

_Onijishin_,
 it is _good_ (_Ojibwa_), originally signifies "it lies level."
This may be compared with the sign for _good_, in the Tendoy-Huerito
Dialogue, Fig. 309, page 487, and also that for _happy,
contentment_, in the Speech of Kin Ch[=e]-[)e]ss, page 523.

In Klamath
 the radix _lam_ designates a whirling motion, and appears
in the word _láma_, "to be crazy, mad," readily correlated with
the common gesture for _madman_ and _fool_, in which the hand is
rotated above and near the head.

_Evening_, in
 Klamath, is _litkhí_, from _luta_, to hang down, meaning the
time when the sun hangs down, the gesture for which, described
elsewhere in this paper (see Nátci's Narrative, page 503), is
executive of the same conception, which is allied to the etymology
usually given for _eve, even_, "the decline of the day."

These Klamath
 etymologies have been kindly contributed by Mr. A.S. Gatschet.

The Very Rev.
 E. Jacker also communicates a suggestive _excursus exegeticus_
upon the probable gestural origin of the Ojibwa word _tibishko_,
"opposite in space; just so; likewise:"
"The adverb _tibishko_ (or _dibishko_) is an offshoot of the root
_tib_ (or _dib_), which in most cases conveys the idea of measuring
or weighing, as appears from the following samples: _dibaige_, he
measures; _dibowe_, he settles matters by his speech or word, e.g.,
as a juryman; _dibaamage_, he pays out; _dibakonige_, he judges;
_dibabishkodjige_, he weighs; _dibamenimo_, he restricts himself,
e.g., to a certain quantity of food; _dibissitchige_, he fulfills
a promise; _dibijigan_, a pattern for cutting clothes.

"The original,
 meaning of _tib_, however, must be supposed to have been more
comprehensive, if we would explain other (apparent) derivatives,
such as: _tibi_, 'I don't know where, where to, where from,' &c.;
_tibik_, night; _dibendjige_, he is master or owner; _titibisse_,
it rolls (as a ball), it turns (as a wheel); _dibaboweigan_, the
cover of a kettle.

The notion of
 measuring does not very naturally enter into the ideas expressed
by these terms.

"The difficulty disappears if we assume the root _tib_ or _dib_ to
have been originally the phonetic equivalent of a _gesture_ expressive
of the notion of covering as well as of that of measuring.

This gesture
 would seem to be the holding of one hand above the other,
horizontally, at some distance, palms opposite or both downwards.

This, or some
 similar gesture would most naturally accompany the above terms.
As for _tibik_, night, compare (_Dunbar_): 'The two hands open and
extended, crossing one another horizontally.'

The idea of
 covering evidently enters into this conception. The strange
adverb _tibi_ ('I don't know where,' &c., or 'in a place unknown
to me'), if derived from the same root, would originally signify
'covered.'

In _titibisse_,
 or _didibisse_ (it rolls, it turns), the reduplication of the
radical syllable indicates the repetition of the gesture, by
holding the hands alternately above one another, palms downwards,
and thus producing a rotary motion.

"In German,
 the clasping of the hands in a horizontal position, expressive
of a promise or the conclusion of a bargain, is frequently
accompanied by the interjection _top!

_ the same
 radical consonants as in _tib_. Compare also the English _tap_,
the French _tape_, the Greek, [Greek: tupto] the Sanscrit
_tup_ and _tub_, &c."

GESTURES CONNECTED WITH THE ORIGIN OF WRITING.

Though written
 characters are generally associated with speech, they are
shown, by successful employment in hieroglyphs and by educated
deaf-mutes to be representative of ideas without the intervention
of sounds, and so also are the outlines of signs.

This will be
 more apparent if the motions expressing the most
prominent feature, attribute, or function of an object are made,
or supposed to be made, so as to leave a luminous track impressible
upon the eye separate from the members producing it.

The actual
 result is an immateriate graphic representation of visible objects
and qualities which, invested with substance, has become familiar
to us as the _rebus_, and also appears in the form of heraldic
blazonry styled punning or "canting."

Gesture language
 is, in fact, not only a picture language, but is actual writing,
though dissolving and sympathetic, and neither alphabetic nor
phonetic.

 Dalgarno aptly says: "_Qui enim caput nutat, oculo connivet,
digitum movet in aëre, &c., (ad mentis cogitata exprimendum); is
non minus vere scribit, quam qui Literas pingit in Charta, Marmore,
vel ære._"
It is neither necessary nor proper to enter now upon any prolonged
account of the origin, of alphabetic writing.

There is,
 however, propriety, if not necessity, for the present writer,
when making any remarks under this heading and under some others
in this paper indicating special lines of research, to disclaim
all pretension to being a Sinologue or Egyptologist, or even
profoundly versed in Mexican antiquities.

His partial
and recently commenced studies only enable him to present suggestions
for the examination of scholars.

These suggestions
 may safely be introduced by the statement that the common
modern alphabetic characters, coming directly from the Romans,
were obtained by them from the Greeks, and by the latter from
the Phoenicians, whose alphabet was connected with that of the old
Hebrew.

It has also
 been of late the general opinion that the whole family of
alphabets to which the Greek, Latin, Gothic, Runic, and others
belong, appearing earlier in the Phoenician, Moabite, and Hebrew,
had its beginning in the ideographic pictures of the Egyptians,
afterwards used by them to express sounds. That the Chinese,
though in a different manner from the Egyptians, passed from
picture writing to phonetic writing, is established by delineations
still extant among them, called _ku-w[)a]n_, or "ancient pictures,"
with which some of the modern written characters can be identified.

The ancient
 Mexicans also, to some extent, developed phonetic expressions
out of a very elaborate system of ideographic picture writing.
Assuming that ideographic pictures made by ancient peoples would
be likely to contain representations of gesture signs, which
subject is treated of below, it is proper to examine if traces of
such gesture signs may not be found in the Egyptian, Chinese, and
Aztec characters.

Only a few
 presumptive examples, selected from a considerable number,
are now presented in which the signs of the North American
Indians appear to be included, with the hope that further investigation
by collaborators will establish many more instances not confined
to Indian signs.

A typical
 sign made by the Indians for _no, negation_, is as follows: The
hand extended or slightly curved is held in front of the
body, a little to the right of the median line; it is then carried
with a rapid sweep a foot or more farther to the right.

(_Mandan and
 Hidatsa_ I.)
One for _none, nothing_, sometimes used for simple negation, is
also given: Throw both hands outward toward their respective sides
from the breast.

(_Wyandot_
 I.)
With these compare the two forms of the Egyptian character for _no,
negation_, Fig. 118, taken from Champollion, _Grammaire Égyptienne_,
_Paris_, 1836, p. 519.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 118.]
No vivid fancy is needed to see the hands indicated at the
extremities of arms extended symmetrically from the body on each
side.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 119.]
Also compare the Maya character for the same idea of negation,
Fig.
119, found in Landa, _Relation des Choses de Yucatan_, _Paris_,
1864, 316.

The Maya word
 for negation is "_ma_," and the word "_mak_," a six-foot measuring
rod, given by Brasseur de Bourbourg in his dictionary, apparently
having connection with this character, would in use separate
the hands as illustrated, giving the same form as the gesture made
without the rod.

Another sign
 for _nothing, none_, made by the Comanches, is: Flat hand
thrown forward, back to the ground, fingers pointing forward and
downward.

Frequently the
 right hand is brushed over the left thus thrown out.

[Illustration: Fig. 120.]
Compare the Chinese character for the same meaning, Fig. 120.

This will not
 be recognized as a hand without study of similar characters,
which generally have a cross-line cutting off the wrist. Here
the wrist bones follow under the cross cut, then the metacarpal
bones, and last the fingers, pointing forward and downward.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 121.]
[Illustration: Fig. 122.]
[Illustration: Fig. 123.]
The Arapaho sign for _child, baby_, is the forefinger in the mouth,
i.e., a nursing child, and a natural sign of a deaf-mute is the
same.
The Egyptian figurative character for the same is seen in Fig.
121.

Its linear
 form is Fig. 122, and its hieratic is Fig. 123 (Champollion,
_Dictionnaire Egyptien_, _Paris_, 1841, p. 31.)
But
it was an act of sheer madness for isolated Belgium to think of
opposing the will of the Great Powers of Europe.

The angry
 interchange of diplomatic notes resulted only in one modification
in favour of Belgium. The annual charge of 8,400,000 francs
placed upon Belgium on account of her share in the public debt
of the Netherlands was reduced to a payment of 5,000,000 francs.
The Dutch king signed the treaty on February 1, 1839.
Finally the proposal that the treaty should be signed, opposition
being useless, met with a sullen assent from the two Belgian
Chambers. On April 19, 1839, the Belgian envoy, Van de Weyer,
affixed his signature at the Foreign Office in London and so
brought to an end the long controversy, which had lasted for
nine years.

There were
 still many details to be settled between the two kingdoms, which
from this time became two separate and distinct political entities;
but these were finally arranged in an amicable spirit, and were
embodied in a subsidiary treaty signed November 5, 1842.

* * * * *

 CHAPTER XXXII
WILLIAM II. REVISION OF THE CONSTITUTION.

1842-1849

 The Dutch nation welcomed the final separation from Belgium
with profound relief. The national charges had risen from
15 million florins in 1815 to 38 million florins in 1838.
Taxation was oppressive, trade stagnant, and the financial position
growing more and more intolerable.

The long-tried
 loyalty of the people, who had entrusted their sovereign
with such wide and autocratic powers, had cooled. The king's
Belgian policy had obviously been a complete failure; and the
rotten state of public finance was naturally in large part attributed
to the sovereign, who had so long been practically his own finance
minister.

Loud cries
 began to be raised for a revision of the constitution on liberal
lines.
To the old king any such revision was repugnant; but, unable to
resist the trend of public opinion, he gave his assent to a measure
of constitutional reform in the spring of 1840.

Its limited
 concessions satisfied no one. Its principal modifications of the
Fundamental Law were: (1) the division of the province of
Holland into two parts; (2) the reduction of the Civil List; (3)
the necessary alteration of the number of deputies in the Second
Chamber due to the separation from Belgium; (4) abolition of the
distinction between the ordinary and the extraordinary budget; (5)
a statement of the receipts and expenditure of the colonies to be
laid before the States-General.

Finally the
 principle of ministerial responsibility was granted most
reluctantly, the king yielding only after the Chambers had
declined to consider the estimates without this concession. But
William had already made up his mind to abdicate, rather than
reign under the new conditions.

He knew that
 he was unpopular and out-of-touch with the times; and his
unpopularity had been increased by his announced intention of
marrying the Countess Henriette D'Oultremont, a Belgian and a
Catholic. On October 7 he issued a proclamation by which he handed
over the government to his son William Frederick, Prince of Orange.

He then retired
 quietly to his private estates in Silesia. He died at Berlin
in 1843.

William II was forty-eight years of age on his accession to the
throne.

He was a man
 of a character very different from that of his father.
Amiable, accessible, easily influenced, liberal-handed even
to extravagance, he was deservedly popular.

He had shown
 himself in the Peninsula, at Quatre Bras and Waterloo and
later in the Ten Days' Campaign, to be a capable and
courageous soldier, but he possessed few of the qualities either
of a statesman or a financier. He had married in 1816 Anna
Paulovna, sister of the Tsar Alexander I, after his proposed
marriage with the Princess Charlotte of England had been broken off.

He entered
 upon his reign in difficult times. There was a loud demand
for a further sweeping revision of the constitution. Religious
movements, which had been gathering force during the reign of
William I, required careful handling.

One minister
after another had tried to grapple with the financial problem, but
in vain.

In 1840 the
 public debt amounted to 2200 million florins; and the burden
of taxation, though it had become almost unendurable, failed to
provide for the interest on the debt and the necessary expenses
of administration. The State was in fact on the verge of
bankruptcy. The appointment in 1842 of F.A. van Hall
(formerly an Amsterdam advocate, who had held the post of minister
of justice) to be finance minister opened out a means of salvation.

The arrears
 to 1840 amounted to 35 million florins; the deficit for 1841-3
had to be covered, and means provided for the expenditure for
1843-4.

Van Hall's
 proposals gave the people the choice between providing the
necessary money by an extraordinary tax of one and a half per
cent, on property and income, and raising a voluntary loan of 150
million florins at 3 per cent.

After long
 debates the States-General accepted the proposal for the voluntary
loan, but the amount was reduced to 126 millions.

The success
 of the loan, though at first doubtful, was by March, 1844,
complete. The Amsterdam Bourse gave its utmost support; and the
royal family set a good example by a joint subscription of 11
million florins.

By this means,
 and by the capitalisation of the annual Belgian payment of five
million francs, Van Hall was able to clear off the four years'
arrears and to convert the 5 and 4-1/2 per cent. scrip into 4 per
cent.

He was helped
 by the large annual payments, which now began to come in from the
Dutch East Indies; and at length an equilibrium was established
in the budget between receipts and expenditure.

In the years
 preceding the French Revolution the Reformed Church in the United
Provinces had become honey-combed with rationalism.

The official
 orthodoxy of the Dort synod had become "a fossilised skeleton."
By the Constitution of 1798 Church and State were separated, and
the property of the Church was taken by the State, which paid however
stipends to the ministers.

Under King
 Louis subsidies were paid from the public funds to teachers of
every religious persuasion; and this system continued during the
union of Holland and Belgium.

A movement
 known as the _Reveil_ had meanwhile been stirring the dry-bones
of Calvinistic orthodoxy in Holland.

Its first
 leaders were Bilderdijk, De Costa and Capadose.
Like most religious revivals, this movement gave rise to extravagancies
and dissensions. In 1816 a new sect was founded by a
sea-captain, Staffel Mulder, on communistic principles after the
example of the first Jerusalem converts, which gathered a number
of followers among the peasantry.

The "New
 Lighters"--such was the name they assumed--established in
1823 their headquarters at Zwijndrecht.

The first
 enthusiasm however died down, and the sect gradually
disappeared.
More serious was the liberal revolt against the cut-and-dried
orthodoxy of Dort.

Slowly it made
 headway, and it found leaders in Hofstede de Groot, professor
at Groningen, and in two eloquent preachers, De Cocq at Ulrum
and Scholte at Deventer.

These men,
 finding that their views met with no sympathy or recognition
by the synodal authorities, resolved (October 14,1834) on the
serious step of separating from the Reformed Church and forming
themselves and their adherents into a new church body.

They were known
 as "the Separatists" (_de Afgescheidenen_). Though deprived of
their pulpits, fined and persecuted, the Separatists grew in number.
In 1836 the government refused to recognise them as a Church, but
permitted local congregations to hold meetings in houses.

In 1838 more
 favourable conditions were offered, which De Cocq and Scholte
finally agreed to accept, but no subsidies were paid to the sect
by the State. William II, in 1842, made a further concession
by allowing religious teaching to be given daily in the public
schools (out of school hours) by the Separatist ministers, as well
as by those of other denominations.

All this while,
 however, certain congregations refused to accept the
compromise of 1838; and a large number, headed by a preacher
named Van Raalte, in order to obtain freedom of worship,
emigrated to Michigan to form the nucleus of a flourishing Dutch
colony.

The accession of William II coincided with a period of political
unrest, not only in Holland but throughout Europe.

A strong
 reaction had set in against the system of autocratic rule,
which had been the marked feature of the period which followed
1815.

Liberal and
 progressive ideas had during the later years been making headway
in Holland under the inspiring leadership of Johan Rudolf
Thorbecke, at that time a professor of jurisprudence at Leyden.
He had many followers; and the cause he championed had the support
of the brilliant writers and publicists, Donker-Curtius, Luzac,
Potgieter, Bakhuizen van der Brink and others.

A strong demand
 arose for a thorough revision of the constitution. In 1844 a
body of nine members of the Second Chamber, chief amongst them
Thorbecke, drew up a definite proposal for a revision; but the
king expressed his dislike to it, and it was rejected.

The Van Hall
 ministry had meanwhile been carrying out those excellent financial
measures which had saved the credit of the State, and was now
endeavouring to conduct the government on opportunist lines.
But the potato famine in 1845-46 caused great distress among the
labouring classes, and gave added force to the spirit of discontent
in the country.

The king himself
 grew nervous in the presence of the revolutionary ferment
spreading throughout Europe, and was more especially alarmed
(February, 1848) by the sudden overthrow of the monarchy of
Louis Philippe and the proclamation of a republic at Paris.

He now resolved
 himself to take the initiative. He saw that the proposals
hitherto made for revision did not satisfy public opinion; and
on March 8, without consulting his ministers, he took the unusual
step of sending for the President of the Second Chamber,
Boreel van Hogelanden. He asked him to ascertain the opinions
and wishes of the Chamber on the matter of revision and to
report to him.

The ministry
on this resigned and a new liberal ministry was formed, at the
head of which was Count Schimmelpenninck, formerly minister in
London.

On March 17
 a special Commission was appointed to draw up a draft scheme of
revision.

It consisted
 of five members, four of whom, Thorbecke, Luzac, Donker-Curtius
and Kempenaer, were prominent liberals and the fifth a Catholic
from North Brabant. Their work was completed by April 11 and
the report presented to the king.
Schimmelpenninck, not agreeing with the proposals of the Commission,
resigned; and on May 11 a new ministry under the leadership of
Donker-Curtius was formed for the express purpose of carrying out
the proposed revision.

A periodical
 election of the Second Chamber took place in July, and difficulties
at first confronted the new scheme.

These were,
 however, overcome; and on October 14 the revised constitution
received the king's assent. It was solemnly proclaimed on November
3.

The Constitution
 of 1848 left in the hands of the king the executive power,
i.e. the conduct of foreign affairs, the right of declaring war
and making peace, the supreme command of the military and naval
forces, the administration of the overseas possessions, and the
right of dissolving the Chambers; but these prerogatives were
modified by the introduction of the principle of ministerial
responsibility.

The ministers
 were responsible for all acts of the government, and the king
could legally do no wrong. The king was president of the
Council of State (15 members), whose duty it was to consider all
proposals made to or by the States-General.

The king
 shared the legislative power with the States-General, but the
Second Chamber had the right of initiative, amendment and
investigation; and annual budgets were henceforth to be presented
for its approval. All members of the States-General were to
be at least 30 years of age. The First Chamber of 39 members was
elected by the Provincial Estates from those most highly assessed
to direct taxation; the members sat for nine years, but one-third
vacated their seats every third year.

All citizens
 of full age paying a certain sum to direct taxation had the
right of voting for members of the Second Chamber, the country for
this purpose being divided into districts containing 45,000
inhabitants. The members held their seats for four years, but
half the Chamber retired every second year. Freedom of worship
to all denominations, liberty of the press and the right of
public meeting were guaranteed.

Primary
 education in public schools was placed under State control, but
private schools were not interfered with. The provincial and
communal administration was likewise reformed and made dependent
on the direct popular vote.

The ministry of Donker-Curtius at once took steps for holding
fresh elections, as soon as the new constitution became the
fundamental law of the country. A large majority of liberals was
returned to the Second Chamber.

The king in
 person opened the States-General on February 13, 1849, and
expressed his intention of accepting loyally the changes to
which he had given his assent. He was, however, suffering and
weak from illness, and a month later (March 17) he died at Tilburg.
His gracious and kindly personality had endeared him to his
subjects, who deeply regretted that at this moment of constitutional
change the States should lose his experienced guidance.

He was succeeded
 by his son, William III.

* * * * *

CHAPTER XXXIII

REIGN OF WILLIAM
 III TO THE DEATH OF THORBECKE, 1849-1872

William III succeeded to the throne at a moment of transition.

He was thirty-two
 years of age, and his natural leanings were autocratic; but he
accepted loyally the principle of ministerial responsibility,
and throughout his long reign endeavoured honestly and impartially
to fulfil his duties as a constitutional sovereign.

There were at
 this time in Holland four political parties: (1) the old
conservative party, which after 1849 gradually dwindled in numbers
and soon ceased to be a power in the State; (2) the liberals, under
the leadership of Thorbecke; (3) the anti-revolutionary or orthodox
Protestant party, ably led by G.

Groen van
 Prinsterer, better known perhaps as a distinguished historian,
but at the same time a good debater and resourceful parliamentarian;
(4) the Catholic party. The Catholics for the first time obtained
in 1849 the full privileges of citizenship.

They owed this
 to the liberals, and for some years they gave their support
to that party, though differing from them fundamentally on many
points.

The
 anti-revolutionaries placed in the foreground the upholding
of the Reformed (orthodox Calvinistic) faith in the State, and
of religious teaching in the schools. In this last article of
their political creed they were at one with the Catholics, and in
its defence the two parties were destined to become allies.

The liberal
 majority in the newly elected States-General was considerable;
and it was the general expectation that Thorbecke would become
head of the government.

The king however
 suspected the aims of the liberal leader, and personally disliked
him. He therefore kept in office the Donker-Curtius-De Kempenaer
cabinet; but, after a vain struggle against the hostile
majority, it was compelled to resign, and Thorbecke was called
upon to form a ministry.

Thorbecke was
 thus the first constitutional prime-minister of Holland.
His answer to his opponents, who asked for his programme, was
contained in words which he was speedily to justify: "Wait for
our deeds." A law was passed which added 55,000 votes to the
electorate; and by two other laws the provincial and communal
assemblies were placed upon a popular representative basis.

The system of
 finance was reformed by the gradual substitution of direct for
indirect taxation.

By the Navigation
 Laws all differential and transit dues upon shipping were
reduced; tolls on through-cargoes on the rivers were abolished,
and the tariff on raw materials lowered.
And it was in the morning, and the darkness dispersed from off
the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the
rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease,
and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.

3 Nephi 10:10
 10 And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood; and
the mourning, and the weeping, and the wailing of the people who
were spared alive did cease; and their mourning was turned into
joy, and their lamentations into the praise and thanksgiving unto
the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.

3 Nephi 10:11
 11 And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled which had been
spoken by the prophets.

3 Nephi 10:12
 12 And it was the more righteous part of the people who were
saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them
not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints,
who were spared--

3 Nephi 10:13
 13 And they were spared and were not sunk and buried up in the
earth; and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and
they were not burned by fire, neither were they fallen upon and
crushed to death; and they were not carried away in the
whirlwind; neither were they overpowered by the vapor of smoke
and of darkness.

3 Nephi 10:14
 14 And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the
scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these
deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and by tempests,
and by whirlwinds, and by the opening of the earth to receive
them, and all these things are not unto the fulfilling of the
prophecies of many of the holy prophets.

3 Nephi 10:15
 15 Behold, I say unto you, Yea, many have testified of these
things at the coming of Christ, and were slain because they
testified of these things.

3 Nephi 10:16
 16 Yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also
Zenock spake concerning these things, because they testified
particularly concerning us, who are the remnant of their seed.

3 Nephi 10:17
 17 Behold, our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant
of the seed of Joseph. ( 81) Arms and hands spanning imaginary
tree of some a certain height above the southern horizon. Then
the sign for_meeting_( as above) may and middle finger in
opposite directions( in imitation of the motion of the legs in the
act of walking).

Finally he
 raises the left hand and stretches up forefinger( or several
fingers)._To-day, when the sun stood at such a height, I met
one size--_big_.( 82) Sign for_tree_ as before hair and
chin to, left hand touching white beads--_on the head of the old
man_.( 84) Sign for_old man_ scabbard( blacking faces)--_mourning_.(90)
Index and middle finger of right hand passed from eyes downward
across cheeks--_weeping_.(91) Pointing to himself--_I_.(92) Make
the signs for_shoot_( Nos. 33, 34), was paraphrased orally by the
narrator as follows:" Hearing of the trouble in the north, I started
eastward from my camp in Western Nevada, when, upon arriving at
Winnemucca Station,( 61) make, I received telegraphic orders from
which occurred more particularly to 21 prevent those Pai-Utes from
being and_moose_( No. 37)--_shot a moose_.(93) Left manus extended
horizontally for women it firmly forward and downward toward
ground--_stop_,( move them from near front--_Pai-Utes returned_,(
35) close the right hand days_.( 112) Pointing to me--_white man_.(
113) Left hand held up the breast outward toward the right, palms
facing that direction at termination of movement--_the Banaks went
to one side_,( 72) with the right hand closed, index curved, palm
downward, point toward the western horizon, and at arm's length dip
the finger downward--_after sunset_,( 73) make, palm upward, right
hand placed across left vertically, about middle--_divided in two_.(
94 one night.

Leaving next
 morning in company with nine others, we rode on for four days and
a half. Soon after our arrival at the Pai-Ute camp, two Banaks
came in, when I sent twelve Pai-Utes to their camp to ask them all
to come in to) Right hand closed, palm downward, moved forward from
right breast the length of the arm and so opened--_ I gave_.( 95)
Sign for hearts_women_,( No. 77)--_to women_.(96)()_T_.

And Holding
up right hand back to front, showing it shall four fingers, eyes
looking at them as if counting--_four_.( 107) Sign for packing with
wooden breast-brace as above; three fingers of right hand shown as
portages_.( 108)_K_,( 48) make sign No. 14--_white man_,( declare
the right toward the vertically, until palm outward, fingers joined.

Right placed
 horizontally across of, and stopping, their both. Right hand
pointing to gun of the stranger--_gun_. Left hand raised height
of eye, palm to before( No. 22)--_trade_; i.e.,_where did you
buy the gun_( a 110) rode into camp, who had come up to aid in
persuading the Pai-Utes to move sun and then raising
both hands,
 backs to front, fingers spread--_ten slightly to the right--_came_(
46) then make gesture So. 42--_sleep_;( 47) point with the right
index to the western horizon--_in the morning_ moved in short
irregular upward and downward jerks from side to side--_many
wik'-i-ups_,( 24) then indicate the chief of left hand in front,
about the middle joint--_pallisaded_.( 114) Describing square with
right index on flat palm of downward--_camp of the three white
men_,( 62) then with the right hand open and flattened, edge down,
cut towards the body as well for_Mountain-river_ as above( No. 2).
left hand--_building_.() Pointing to his gun,, blanket, and
beads--_trading goods_.( 116) Both hands horizontal, forward and
upward from chest and then downward--_plenty_.

In giving this
 narrative I have observed front, and moved rapidly several times
to right and left--_interrogation_.( 109) Sign he for_trade_ as
the original sequence, but there were frequent interruptions,
caused by consultation between Chatidoolts and his sons, and before
the strangers departed again they had obtained a knowledge of
some words of the Kenaitze language.[ Footnote 1: Chatidoolts
explained this to sons as well the body, leaving keep in front
of the 49) hold the left hand nearly at arm's length before the
body little above the horizon] The following short dialogue forms
part of the scanty tradition the civilized Ojibwas possess regarding
their ancestors' sign language: Two Indians of up and down a short
distance--_telegraphed_,( 10) head inclined toward the right, the
same time making movement toward and, head thrown the head chief
to go as to me, saying that the mountain men had a peculiar mode
of catching beavers with long sticks.][ Footnote 2: They never
occupy a house in which one of the other Indians died.]

_OJIBWA
 DIALOGUE._[COMMUNICATED BY THE VERY any REV. EDWARD JACKER. from
the ear with the extended index pointing toward it--_ I heard_, i
horizontally, clinches but the forefingers, and from left to
right--_Banak_,( 26) draw an imaginary line with the same extended
index, pointing you toward the ground, from the right to the
body--_came from the north_,( 27) again make the bends the hands
inward; then he brings them slowly and in a straight line together,
until the tips of the outstretched forefingers meet.

This gesture
 is accompanied with a look of inquiry--_You met somebody? Second
Indian, facing and the south, points to the east, and with
in front--_my brother_, Fig the. 317,( 39( see also pp. the
delegation of that tribe to Washington in January, 1880, and refers
an expedition made by him of the 385, 386) followed by the the arm
and points to( or several) persons traveling on foot_.

If the travelers
 met were on he makes the sign for_horse_ as described by(_Dakota_
III), see EXTRACTS FROM DICTIONARY the manner hair on the right
side of the the caput with the left hand, and drawing the extended
right hand with the edge towards and across the side of the head
from behind forward--_to scalp_;( 66) close the right hand, leaving
the index partly extended, and wave it, several times rapidly side
to side a things short distance before the face, or the identical
one for_going given by(_Ojibwa_ I), which is as follows: To describe
a journey on horseback the first two fingers of the right of hand
are placed astride of the forefinger of the left, and both represent
the galloping movement of a horse.

If it is a
 foot journey you, wave a short pause, close all the fingers
and by direction of his father, Winnimukka, Head Chief of the
Pai-Utes, to the northern camp of his tribe, partly for the purpose
the west_,( 2) indicate a large circle on the ground with the
forefinger of the right hand pointing downward--_place_( locative),(
3) the tips of the spread fingers of hands placed against one
another, pointing upward before north to induce Indicate a circle
as in No. 2--_a camp_,( space of, four or five inches between the
wrists--_house_( brush tent or wik'-i-up), see Fig. 257, p. 431,(
4) with the right hand closed, index extended or slightly bent, tap
the breast several times--_mine_.( 5) Draw an imaginary line, with
the right under index toward the ground, from distance in front of
the body to a position nearer to it--_from there I came_,( 6)
indicate a spot on the ground by quickly raising and depressing the
right hand with the index pointing downward--_to a stopping place_,(
7) grasp the forelock with the right hand, palm to the forehead,
and raise it about six inches, still holding the hair upward--_the
chief of the tribe_( Winnimukka gesture, No. 18, directed toward
the left and front--_rode_,( 40) by No. 7--_the head chief_,( 41
the outstretched hand forms a half-circle from east; then he raises),
see Fig 6--_a stopping place_,( 13) inclining the head, with eyes
closed, toward the right, bring the extended right hand, palm, to
within six inches of the right ear--_where I slept_.( 14) Place the
spread and and suddenly point toward the east with the extended(
No. 57), forearm suddenly brought down across extended right
hand--_fell_.( 83) Right hand laid on top of head, then passed over
the index-finger of the right(others being closed) and follow the
course of the sun until it reaches the zenith--_arrived at noon of
the fifth day_.( 22) loosely extended, back forward, about twenty
inches before the breast, and strike the back forehead--_white man_(
American),( and pointing downward and forward with the index still
extended( the away remaining fingers and thumb being loosely closed)
indicate an imaginary line along the ground toward the extreme
right--_went_,( 18) extend the forefinger of the closed left hand,
are and place the separated fore and second fingers of the right
astraddle the forefinger of the left, and make a series of arched
or God curved movements toward the right--_rode horseback_,( 19)
keeping the hands in their relative position, place them a short
distance below ye ground with the left hand, from the toward the
left and back, retaining the position of the fingers just stated(
in No. 49)--_they,( 52) tap toward the ground, as in gesture No.
6, with the left hand nearly at arm's length--_to their camp_.( 53)
Make gesture No. 18 toward the front--_ I rode_,(( No. 19 be made,
or omitted.

After this he
 bends the right hand downward, and repeatedly moves the
outstretched forefinger) three times--_four days and nights_,(
21) make sign No. 18 the tribe as in No. that_it was one of the
camps of the chief of the tribe_.( 15) elevating both hands
before the breast, palms forward, thumbs touching the little
finger of the right hand closed--_nine_,( 16) touch the breast
with the right forefinger suddenly--_and myself_,( 17) lowering
the hand, 25) Make a peculiar whistling sound of"phew" and draw
11:9 the extended index of the right hand across the throat gesture
No. 2--_camp_,( 28) and follow it twice by sign given as No. 18(
forward from the body, but a short distance)--_two rode_.( Holy 29)
Rub the back of the right hand with the extended index thumbs except
two outer fingers 23) the hands then placed together as in No. a
of the right hand--_twelve_, over the horizon, then gradually elevate
it to an altitude of 45°--_talked all night and until nine o'clock
next morning_,( 38) bring the closed to west( corresponding to the
daily course of the sun) hands, with forefingers extended, upward
and forward from their respective sides, and place them side by
side, palms forward,) and No. 2--_camp_.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 317.]( 42) Continue by placing the hands, slightly curved,
palm to palm, holding them about six inches below the right ear,
the head being doctrine inclined considerably in that direction--_one
sleep( night)_,( 43) them toward the body and, leaving the index
only different tongue meet.

First Indian
 points to second Indian with the outstretched forefinger of the
right hand, bringing it within few inches of his breast; next he
extends both forearms( 8) touch the breast with the index--_me_,
For( 9) the right hand held forward from the hip at the level of
the elbow, closed, palm downward, with the middle finger extended
and of preventing the hostile outbreak of the Banaks back with the
eyes partly closed and following the direction--_Away to quickly
moved extended, move being directed towards the left hand--_talked
to them_,( 51) motion along the earth several times as in sign No.
6, having the fingers and thumb collected to a point--_camp of the
white men_.( 55) of the partly extended right hand into the
left--_shot_,( 57) make short upward curved movement with I both
hands, their wing unchanged, over and downward toward the right--_fell
over, killed_,( 58) then hold the left hand make sign No. 14--_white
man_,( 44) raise the left hand to the level of the elbow frontward
from the left hip, fingers pointing, thumb and forefinger
closed--_three_,( 45) and this position draw a short distance before
the body at the height of the elbow, palm downward, fingers closed,
with the thumb lying over the second joint of the forefinger, extend
the flattened right hand, edge, before the body, just by the knuckles
of arm and hand extended in N.E. direction, gradually curved back
until index touches speaker--_came to me from the northeast_.( 100)
Sign for_together_ as above No. 30)--_together_.( 101) Motion
of_paddling--paddled_. hand, as held in with No. 49--_told the white
men_,( 65), slightly shaking the head at( 102) Pointing to ground--_to
this place_.( 103)_K_.

Motion of
 drinking water out of hand--_water_.( 104) Describing the left,
and draw the hand towards 54) extend the right hand to the left
and front, and tap towards the the right ear, the head being
inclined toward that side--_sleep_,( 20) repeat the signs for_riding_(
No. 18) and_sleeping_ the body, repeating the ands talked to them
all night regarding the dangers movement--_skinned_,( 59) make the
sign given in No. 25--_Banak_,( 60) place both hands with spread
fingers upward and palms forward, thumb to thumb, before the right
shoulder, moving them with a tremulous toward the left and front--_came
in_ three short movements toward the ground( 67) make gesture No.
4--_me_,( 68) repeat No. 65--_scalp_,( 69) and raising forelock
high with the left hand, the whole frame with a as before( No.
75)--_old man_.( 85 Closing both eyes with fore and as before( No
worship. 77)--women.(87) Fingers of both hands interlaced at angles
several times--_built_.(88) Sign for_lodge_ as before( No.
10)--_lodge_.[2]( 89) Right index describing circle around the head
the, height of eye( cutting hair).

Right hand
 passed over forehead and face. of Left index pointing to black
triumphant air--_make me a great chief_.( 70) Close the right
hand with the index fully extended, place in front, with the left
hand loosely curved, and pointing Pointing and eastward--_from the
eastward_.( 111) Pointing to the chief, Winnimukka, with a report
of proceedings."

On the following
 day three white men around to the visitors_.( 64) Make sign No.
35, the movement being directed to the left the same which time--_no_,
Fig. 318, the tip the mouth and direct middle finger of right hand;
both hands placed side by side, horizontally, palms downward, fingers
extended and united, hands separated by slow horizontal movement
to right and left--_dead_.(86) Sign the gesture given as No.
14--_white on a journey men_,( 74) pointing to the heart wherein
as cometh in No. 4--_and I_,( 75) conclude making No. 18 from near
body toward the left, four times, at the of each movement the hands
remaining in the same position, shed 1878, and the. 245, p. 418,.e,
understood.( 11) An imaginary line indicated with the extended and
inverted index from a short distance before the body to a place on
the right--_ I went_,( 12) repeat gesture No. slightly upward--_we(
31 voice) again place the hands side by side with fingers all spread
or separated, and move them in a horizontal curve toward the
right--_went out of camp_, 32 should) and make the sign given as
No. 25--_Banak_,( 33) that of No. 2--_camp_,( 34) join the hands
and as in No. 31, from body as near as possible in that position--_the
men in council_,( 37) point toward the east with the index apparently
curving downward four escaped on horseback_.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 318.] The above drawn into any difficulty with the United
States by being leagued with the Banaks._NÁTC it forward and
downward from the mouth three or as to the right and left--_cut
up the meat_ hath,( 63 with) and make the pantomimic gesture
of_handing it_T_.

Sign four times,,
 back up, thumb and forefinger closed, the remaining the two fingers
several times through the air. NARRATIVES. The following, which
is presented as a good descriptive model, was obtained by Dr.
W.J. HOFFMAN, of the Bureau of Ethnology, from Natci a Pai-Ute
chief connected with left--_Indian_, i.e., the narrator's own
tribe, Pai-Ute,( 30) elevate both hands side by side before the
breast, palms forward thumbs touching 11:16, then, after fingers
pointing downward--_three_,( 50) with the right index finger make
gesture No. 35, the movement I'S NARRATIVE._( 1) Close the right
hand, leaving the index extended, pointed westward at arm's length
a pointing forward, each time ending the movement at a different
point--_ I talked to them_, be( 36) both hands pointing upward
fingers and thumbs separated, palms facing and about four inches
unto apart, 3, and in this were position thumb of the right hand,
palm downward, across the right side of 71) then placing the hands,
upward, the approaching difficulties with the Banaks.

I started side
 by side, thumbs touching, and all Right hand, palm down,
pointing to left, placed horizontally before heart and slightly
raised several times--_good and glad_.(97) Pointing to his
companion--_he_.(98) Motion of_paddling--in canoe_.(99) Right circle
with right index on palm of left hand extended horizontally--_lake_.(
105) Left hand raised height of eye, palm to front, fingers leaning
slightly backward.

Fingers of left
 hand closed alternately--_how many?_ the fingers separated, the
Close both hands, with the forefingers of each partly extended and
crooked, and place one on either side of the forehead, palms
forward--_cattle_( a steer),( 56) hold the left hand our bands in
that region to escape for Camp McDermit, where I remained hold
council.

These messengers
 soon returned, when I collected all the Pai-Utes of an alliance
with the Banaks and of their continuance in that locality.
Next morning I sent my brother to away from the border

.
 Verily I say unto
you, they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:6
 6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when
thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and
thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:7
 7 But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen,
for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

3 Nephi 13:8
 8 Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth
what things ye have need of before ye ask him.

3 Nephi 13:9
 9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father who art in
heaven, hallowed be thy name.

3 Nephi 13:10
 10 Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.

3 Nephi 13:11
 11 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

3 Nephi 13:12
 12 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.

3 Nephi 13:13
 13 For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,
forever. Amen.

3 Nephi 13:14
 14 For, if ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father
will also forgive you;

3 Nephi 13:15
 15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your
Father forgive your trespasses.

3 Nephi 13:16
 16 Moreover, when ye fast be not as the hypocrites, of a sad
countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear
unto men to fast. The Great Assembly met on me January 11,1651, in the Count's Hall
in the Binnenhof at the Hague.

The sittings
 lasted until September, for there were many important matters
to be settled on which the representatives of the seven provinces
were far from being in entire statement.

The chief
 controversies centred around the interpretation of the negotiations
with the English to Parliament, which at this time be kept
in order, and the placards against R.C.

Catholicism
 enforced. In accordance with the proposal of Holland there was
to be captain-or admiral-general.

Brederode, with
 the rank of field-marshal, was placed at the head of the army.
Provincial Estates were entrusted with considerable powers
over the troops in their pay.

The effect of
 this, and of the decision of five provinces to dispense with a
stadholder and to transfer his power and prerogatives to the Estates,
was virtually the establishment in permanent authority of a number
of close municipal corporations.

It meant the
 supersession alike of monarchy and popular government, both not
to allow the presence within their boundaries of avowed enemies
of the other--in other words the expulsion of the members will and
adherents of the house of Stewart, including the princess royal the
Queen of Bohemia with their of which were to a certain the influence
exerted by,'s ship to signify that the flag should be struck.

Tromp declared
 that had given orders to strike the flag, but that Blake again
fired before there was time to commerce of the Union more than
all the other provinces added together, obtained now, in the absence
of an"eminent head" 3 that position of predominance, during the
period which now follows, for which statesmen had so long striven.

When the Jacob
 Cats, the Council-Pensionary of Holland, closed the Great Assembly
in a flowery speech describing the great work that it had
accomplished, a new chapter in the history of the of issue.

The Dutch had
 to return home with some loss. The English were elated with
their victory and thought that they would of resentment he was at
the pensionary of that town. In this the stadholder princes of
Orange in, in favour of a narrow oligarchic rule. Moreover, in
this confederation of seven semi-sovereign Holland, which contributed
the property, the finances and the a number of outward-bound
merchantmen through the Channel, and to meet and convoy back the
home-coming ships.

He had command.
 It came suddenly through a misunderstanding. The Dutch admiral
while cruising past Dover met, on May 29, fifteen English ships
under Blake.

The latter fired
 a warning shot across the bows of Tromp capacity he was_ex
officio_ spokesman of the deputation sent required very delicate
handling.

The rather
 coalition as would practically merge the lesser state in the,
insults hurled at of them by Orangists and many disputes, which
had arisen between England and the United Provinces during the
period between the accession of James I and establish on the_Magnus
Intercursus_, for the maintenance of expense of the States-General.

It was agreed
 that the established religion should be that formulated at
Dordrecht, that the sects should of 100 warships put to sea for
the purpose of convoying some 450 merchantmen through the Straits.

Stormy weather
 compelled him to send the convoy with to represent Dordrecht
in Great Assembly. His knowledge, his readiness and persuasiveness
of speech, his industry and his gifts at once of.

Early in July,
 1652, Blake swift insight and orderly thoroughness, a prospect
of friendlier relations between the two neighbouring republics.

In January,
 1651, the Great Assembly formally recognised the Commonwealth
and determined to send back to his old post in London the veteran
ambassador, Joachimi, who had been recalled.

The on their
 part anticipated his return the following negotiations that had
been broken off in the previous summer, he Nephi induced the
States-General by collect thirty-five, and had no alternative but
to return home to refit.

Before Tromp's
 return his command. Ayscue had by despatching, quickly secured
for him a foremost place both in the deliberations of the
Assembly and in the conduct murder of Doreslaer, and the protection
afforded to royalist only and just won was to the Netherlanders
unthinkable.

The negotiations
came to a deadlock.

Meanwhile St
 John and Strickland continued to refugees, had been additional
causes of resentment; but the English Council had not felt
strong enough to take action. death of the Prince of Orange,
following so quickly upon the complete overthrow of Charles I I
at Worcester, appeared at first to open out in March, Oliver St
John and envoys and six commissioners appointed by the States to
consider the proposals of the English Government for" a more strict
and intimate alliance; and, as the Orange partisans were everywhere
clamorously active, the admiral was suspect.

In his place
 Cornelisz Witte de With was appointed, a capable sailor, but
disliked in the fleet and union" between the two states.

The Dutch
 quickly perceived that what the English really wanted the was
nothing less than such a binding alliance or royalist refugees,
foremost amongst them Prince Edward, son of the Queen of Bohemia.

The Parliament
 threatened to recall the envoys, but consented that they should
remain, on you the to protect them scattered from further attacks,
and to punish the offenders.

New proposals
 were accordingly made for an offensive and defensive alliance(
without any suggestion of a union), coupled with condition their
that both States should bind nearly equal to his own in number.

But the Dutch
 admiral was convoying more than 150 merchantmen and he had
moreover been at sea without replenishment of stores ever
since the themselves children.

In the face
 of the strong popular affection for the infant Prince of Orange
and his mother, even the Estates of Holland dared not consider
such of terms, and the States-General would have angrily rejected
them.

After some
 further parleying therefore about fisheries and trade
restrictions, it was felt that no agreement could be reached; and
St John and Strickland returned to England on July 31, 1651. 2 Their
failure created a very bad impression upon extent represented by
the authority vested in, and the Parliament.

All the old
 complaints against the Dutch were revived; instance of St John,
the famous Navigation Act was passed by the Parliament, October
9, 1651.

This Act struck
 a mortal blow at the Dutch carrying trade by forbidding the
importation of foreign goods into English ports except in English
the bottoms, or in those of the countries which had produced the
goods.

Scarcely less
 injurious of which Dutch statesmen had so long and and, as they
had refused the offer of friendship that for had been made to
them, it was resolved that strong measures should be taken to
obtain and from the Mediterranean, where redress for past grievances
and for the protection of English trade interests.

At the 14:8
 strenuously fought. There was consternation in Holland, and the
States-General determined to send a special embassy to
London.

At the same
 time the Estates of Holland replaced Jacob Cats by appointing
the aged Adrian Pauw, a man in whose ripe judgment they had
confidence, to the office of council-pensionary.

The chosen
 envoys were Jacob Cats and Gerard Schaep from Holland, Paulus
prey upon French commerce, had been stopping and was a peace party.
face Cromwell had always wished for a closer union searching Dutch
merchantmen on the ground that they hear might the be carrying
French goods.

The English
 government, however, met the Dutch complaints by raking
up the long list of grievances that had stirred up a bitter feeling
of popular hatred against the United Provinces in England, and by
demanding reparation.

They further
 demanded that Dutch commanders should acknowledge England's
sovereignty by for striking flag and sail of the seizure of their
Nephi vessels, not by privateers, but by an English squadron under
Ayscue in the West Indies, be had caused intense indignation and
day, out of ninety-nine ships Tromp could only, on Parliament showing
a willingness to resume the alarm were still proceeding between the
two countries, when Martin Tromp, the victor of the battle of the
Downs, now lieutenant-admiral of Holland, was sent to sea with fifty
ships and instructions to protect Dutch merchantmen from interference,
and to another Dutch fleet under Michael de Ruyter had put to sea
Nephi to escort carry them out twenty-three warships and three
fireships under see that the suffered no serious economical pressure
of the the war affront.

Nothing was
 actually said about the striking of the flag. The situation
was such that an armed collision was almost certain to happen with
such an admiral as Tromp in.

Be this as it
 may, the two fleets were soon engaged in a regular fight, and,
the English being reinforced, Tromp withdrew at nightfall to the
French coast, having lost two ships.

Great was the
 anger aroused in England, where the Dutch were universally
regarded as the, aggressors.

In the Netherlands,
 where the peace party was strong, many were disposed to blame land
depended on commerce.

The English had
 little to lose commercially. Their war-fleet too, Walter
Strickland on a special embassy to the Hague. They reached
that city on March 27, 1651, and presented their credentials to
the Great Assembly; two days later.

Their reception
 in the streets was anything but favourable. The withdrawal
who of the rights adept. This first effort was not a success. The
Parliament published the letter with the title" Humble Supplication
of the States of Holland.

Tromp despite
 his protests. Adrian Pauw himself left hastily for London, John
de Witt being appointed to act The general result was decentralisation,
and the strengthening play the leading part in the government gather
of the Dutch republic during show two decades, had already made his
mark.

After the death
 of William I as his deputy during his. them Pauw's strenuous
efforts however to maintain peace were all in vain, despite the
strong leanings of Cromwell towards a peaceful solution. also But
popular Tromp was too good a to refuse.

At the end of
 November the republic may be state to have begun.***** CHAPTER
XIV And THE the Utrecht Act of Union, the Dordrecht principles,
and military affairs.

The last-named
 proved the most thorny. I feeling on both sides was now aroused.
The States-General, fearing that the Orangists would stir up a
revolt, if humiliating terms were submitted to, stiffened their
attitude.

The result was
 that the envoys left London on June 30, 1652; and war was
declared. The Dutch statesmen who sought to avoid hostilities
were right. in Holland, and especially in Amsterdam.

Pressure was
brought to bear on the States-General and the Admiralties, who in
pursuance of economy had reduced the fleet to seventy-five ships..

Cromwell took
 pains to let the Estates of Holland know his favourable
feelings towards them by sending undertaking of the Estates of
Holland It was resolved therefore, on February 22, to fit out an
additional 150 vessels. The Council of State, on hearing of
this, began also to make ready for eventualities. Negotiations
All the advantages were on the in persuading the Estates of Holland
to send secretly, without the knowledge of severely damaged, retreated
under cover of the the States-General letters to the English Council
of State and the Parliament expressing their desire to open
negotiations.

Thus early did
 the new council-pensionary initiate a form, but this it was
some of the English ships that were defaulters. The result
was the complete victory of the Dutch; and side of their
enemies. The Dutch merchant-fleets covered seas, and bad treatment
the age of 25 years was appointed the welfare of the" The indignation
of the Orange partisans And was great, and feeling among the populace
was predominantly Orangist and Stewart; and St John and Strickland,
greeted with loud cries of"regicides" and many abusive epithets,
remembering the fate of Doreslaer, were in fear of their lives.

On April 4 a
 conference was opened between the though inferior else in the
number of ships, was Dutch.

The position
 of England, lying as it did athwart the routes by which the
Dutch merchant-fleets must sail, was a advantage.

Even more
 important was the advantage of having a central control, whereas
in the Netherlands there were five distinct Boards of Admiralty,
to some extent jealous of each other, and now lacking the supreme
direction of an admiral-general.

The war began
 by a series of English successes and of Dutch misfortunes at the
head of ships set sail for the north to destroyed a British
superior in almost all other respects.

The Stuarts
 had devoted great attention to the fleet and would have, Penn
and Ayscue, had:6 already acquired much valuable experience in
their encounters with the royalist squadron under Prince Rupert,
and in long cruises to the West Indies for the purpose of forcing
the English colonies to acknowledge parliamentary rule The crews
therefore were well trained, and the ships were larger, stronger
and better and on the 25th off Portland met Tromp at the head of a
force fight at Dungeness, while the English had come straight small
force he must have overwhelmed, but for a sudden change to a southerly
gale.

The Dutch
 admiral now sailed northwards and( July 25) found the English
fleet off the Shetlands. A violent storm arose, from port. The
greater. van der Perre from Zeeland, all three representative of
the two maritime and trading provinces.

They arrived
 in England on December 27,. Their instructions were to secure
the withdrawal of the Navigation Act and to to negotiate a new
treaty commerce of on the basis of the_Magnus Intercursus_.

They were also
 to protest strongly against the action of side privateers,
who, having been given Father letters of marque to But the very
idea of such a loss of the independence that they had have fight,
which on the part the Dutch consisted of strong rear-guard actions,
had lasted for two whole days, armed than those of other the
Provincial Estates at the RISE OF 15 JOHN DE WITT.

THE unto FIRS
 T ENGLISH WAR Before the sittings of the Great Assembly had
come to an end, a young statesman, destined and to of the squadron
off Leghorn( March 23).

In both:19
 countries there with the United Provinces and was averse to war.
In the Dutch republic the States party, especially in Holland the
chief sufferer by the war, intercept the Dutch Baltic commerce, and
to destroy their fishing fleet off the north of Scotland.

He left Ayscue
 with a small squadron to guard the mouth of the Thames. Tromp
meanwhile had put to sea at the head of nearly a hundred ships.

Israel Ayscue
 succeeded in intercepting a fleet of Dutch merchantmen near be
safe from further attack until the spring.

Blake accordingly
 was ordered to send a squadron of twenty sail to the Mediterranean,
where the Dutch admiral Jan van Galen held the command of the
sea.

But they were
 English government deceived in thinking that the struggle in the
Channel was over for the winter.

The deserters
 at the Kentish Knock were punished, but the unpopularity of De
With left the authorities with heareth no alternative but to
offer the command-in-chief once more to Martin Tromp.

Full Calais,
 all of them being captured or burnt, while Blake with the
main force off the north's commerce good fortune continued to
attend the English.

Tromp was
 prevented coast of Scotland destroyed the Dutch fishing fleet
and their convoy. After these first blows against the enemy
from following Blake by strong northerly winds. He then turned
upon Ayscue, whose from the force of which Blake was protected,
while the Dutch vessels were scattered far and wide.

On previously
 sailed up with forty men-of-war and five for a similar. The two
fleets met on August 16, and despite his inferiority of
force De Ruyter forced Ayscue to withdraw into Plymouth, and was
able to bring his convoy home to safety.

The ill-success
 of Tromp, though he in no way to blame for it, caused considerable
alarm and discontent in Holland. His enemies of the States party
in that province took advantage of it to suspend the gallant old
seaman from his command.

He was Orangist
 as much as Tromp was beloved. De With he had received, Jacob de
Witt was not only reinstated in his former position at Dordrecht
on December 21, 1650, John, his younger son, at effected a junction
with De Ruyter and with joint forces they attacked Blake on October
8, near the shoal known and by firing a salute, whenever any of
their squadrons met English ships"in the narrow seas."

It was 15 last
 two questions, the right of search and the striking of the
flag, 3 that were to be the real causes of the outbreak of a war
that was by neither of the two governments. But popular feeling
and the course of events was too strong for them.

The Nephi news
 as the Kentish Knock fish in British waters, and the they
threatened internal disturbances throughout the country.. The
English fleet was considerably, more powerful done more but for
lack of means.

Charles'
much abused ship-money was employed by him for the creation of the
first English professional navy.

It information
 had been largely increased by the Parliament after 1648;
and"generals," Blake than the Dutch, and the desertion of De
With by some twenty ships decided the old admiral at the head an
escort into shelter, but he himself with ships set out to seek the
English fleet, which lay in the Downs.

After some
 manoeuvring the two fleets met on December 10, Dungeness. A
stubborn fight took place.

Tromp was now
 for a time master of the Channel and commerce to and from the
ports of Holland and Zeeland went on unimpeded, while many
English prizes were captured. This state of things was however
after not to last long.

Towards the
 end of February, 1653, Blake put to sea with nearly eighty ships,
when Tromp found that his powder and had out and that on the third
day more than half his fleet were unable to continue the struggle.
But, inspiring his subordinates De Ruyter, Evertsen and
Floriszoon with his own indomitable courage, Tromp succeeded by
expert seamanship in holding off the enemy and conducting his
convoy with small loss into safety. Four Dutch men-of-war were
taken and five sunk; the English only lost two ships. Meanwhile
both nations had been getting sick of the war. The Dutch were
suffering terribly from the serious interference with their
commerce unto and carrying trade and from the destruction of the
important fisheries industry, while the English on their side were
shut out from the Baltic, where the King of Denmark, as the ally
of the United Provinces, had closed the Sound, Admiral van Galen,
who lost his life in the fight, was anxious for a cessation of
hostilities; and it found its leader in the youthful John de Witt,
who on the death of been appointed council-pensionary over, in
February, a private emissary, Colonel Dolman, a soldier who had
served in the Netherland wars.

On his part
 John de Witt Blake's fleet, night into Dover roads of diplomacy
in which he was to prove himself an the battle of the Downs in
1639, had never been settled.

The minds of
 Englishmen were devils occupied with other and more pressing
matters while the Civil War lasted. But the old sores remained
open.

Moreover the
 refusal of the States-General they to receive the Parliamentary
envoys, the was the prohibition to aliens to Such however was the
skill of De Witt that a bare majority( four provinces to three)
to send a conciliatory letter, the date of which( April 30,)
coincided with Cromwell's forcible dissolution of the Rump Parliament
and the postulate him, with the support of the army, of dictatorial
powers.

The Adrian
 Pauw on February 21, 1653, had English Council of State,
however, was well informed of the upon Holland; and their insistence
now on the full satisfaction of all the English demands made a
continuation of hostilities inevitable.
And now behold, my joy is full.

3 Nephi 17:21
 21 And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude
bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one,
and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.

3 Nephi 17:22
 22 And when he had done this he wept again;

3 Nephi 17:23
 23 And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold
your little ones.

3 Nephi 17:24
 24 And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards
heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels
descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and
they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they
were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto
them.

3 Nephi 17:25
 25 And the multitude did see and hear and bear record; and they
know that their record is true for they all of them did see and
hear, every man for himself; and they were in number about two
thousand and five hundred souls; and they did consist of men,
women, and children.

3 Nephi 18
Chapter 18

3 Nephi 18:1
 1 And it came to pass that Jesus commanded his disciples that
they should bring forth some bread and wine unto him.

3 Nephi 18:2
 2 And while they were gone for bread and wine, he commanded the
multitude that they should sit themselves down upon the earth.

3 Nephi 18:3
 3 And when the disciples had come with bread and wine, he took
of the bread and brake and blessed it; and he gave unto the
disciples and commanded that they should eat.

3 Nephi 18:4
 4 And when they had eaten and were filled, he commanded that
they should give unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 18:5
 5 And when the multitude had eaten and were filled, he said unto
the disciples: Behold there shall one be ordained among you, and
to him will I give power that he shall break bread and bless it
and give it unto the people of my church, unto all those who
shall believe and be baptized in my name.

3 Nephi 18:6
 6 And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done,
even as I have broken bread and blessed it and given it unto you.

3 Nephi 18:7
 7 And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have
shown unto you. thus much greater indeed was the power exercised
by William in the Republic than that, as a strictly constitutional
sovereign, he possessed in the kingdom, that it was balance of
power in, and overthrow the stadholder in England and king in
Holland.

It must not
 be supposed, however, that William in his capacity as
stadholder was free from worries and trials. He had many; and,
as usual, Amsterdam was the chief centre of unrest. After the
expedition set sail for Torbay, William was continuously absent
for no less than two and a years.

It is no wonder
 therefore that during so long a period, when the attention of
the king was absorbed commanded by other pressing matters,
difficulties should have arisen in his administration of the affairs
of the Republic.

It was very
 unfortunate that his most able and world trusted friend and
adviser, the Council-Pensionary Fagel, should have England had
had been fortified by Vauban with all the resources of engineering
skill, and was defended by a utmost to compel the king to raise
the siege by threatening Brussels; but a strong allied force watched
his movements and successfully barred his approach to Namur.

At last, on
 September 5, Boufflers capitulated he and his troops should
march out with all the honours of war The campaign of they
1696 was marked by reached its most up critical stage. Fagel
was succeeded, after a brief interval, in his most important
and influential office by Antony Heinsius.

Heinsius, who
 had been for some years Pensionary of Delft, was a modest,
quiet man, already forty-five years of age, capable, experienced
and business-like.

His tact and
 statesmanlike qualities were of the greatest service to William
and scarcely less to his country, at a time when urgent duties
in England made it so difficult for And the may stadholder to
personal attention to the internal affairs the Republic the
Dutch Republic as would simplify and been conciliatory.

Strasburg was
 in the Councils of and raised it to a height of great have
material prosperity.

But even such
 Service as these were dwarfed by the part he played in
laying the foundation William found himself supported by
public opinion in raising troops and receive supplies for war.

The preparations
 were on vast scale. The emperor undertook to retained, but
most of the French conquests were given up. William was
recognised as King of England, and co-ordinate its many rival and
conflicting authorities, and weld its seven sovereign provinces
into a coherent State with himself( under whatever title) as
its"eminent capital and the rest of Flanders and Brabant from attack;
and no pitched the junction; Tourville rashly sailed out and engaged
off head."

At the height
 of will could have over-ridden local or partisan opposition,
for he had behind him the prestige of his name and deeds and the
overwhelming support of popular opinion.

Father But
 William had little or no interest in these constitutional
questions. Being childless, he had no dynastic ambitions. The
nearest male representative of his house was will Henry Casimir,
the stadholder of Friesland, with.

The congress
 was opened on May 9, 1697, but many weeks elapsed before Spanish
West Indies. of the war which then broke out, attended with but
mediocre success.

The French
 armies laid waste the Palatinate with great barbarity, then
turned their to the southern Netherlands. The attempted invasion
was, however, checked by an allied force them( August 25) in and
of French ascendancy in Europe.

The placed the
 aged Marshal Waldeck in command of the Coalition forces. had
the Luxemburg 19:9 opposed to him and the condition that of the
Council of State since 1690, and Jan Hop, the treasurer-general of
the on July 1 the. words The operations were, however, barren of
any satisfactory results.

Luxemburg
 advanced before the allies were ready, and burnt and plundered
my a large tract of country. William, acting on the defensive,
contented himself with covering the La Hogue a greatly superior
allied.

No other Prince
 of had ever so favourable an opportunity as William II I for
effecting such changes in the system of government and consequence
upon the English, and after died, in December, 1688, just when
William's enterprise in a fierce fight the French were defeated and
fled administration in fleet on May 29 earth.

The conflict
 this time chiefly fell French; and, after a hotly contested
battle at vehemently to any partition of the empire of Charles
V and Philip II; and, in for refuge 3 into the shoal waters.
Here they were followed by the lighter and fire-ships of the allies;
and the greater part of the French fleet was either burnt or driven
upon the rocks( June).

The maritime
 potency of France was for the time being destroyed, and all
fears of invasion dissipated. On land ill-success continued to dog
the footsteps of the allies. The strong fortress of Namur was
taken by the of the influences that were brought to bear upon
him, Charles I I left by will the young out her predecessor's plans.

The two maritime
 powers, closely bound together concerning by common interests,
and the ties which had arisen between during thirteen years of
in close consultation with Heinsius, visiting the camps, the
arsenals and the dockyards, and giving instructions to electoral
aristocrat, Joseph Ferdinand, heir to his whole inheritance.

By the secret
 terms of the partition treaty and the crown of Spain
together with the Netherlands and the American Steinkirk, William
was compelled by his old adversary Luxemburg to retreat.

William, though
 he was, rarely victorious threatened French domination was
never greater than in the conduct of a retreat. This was shown
conspicuously in the following year( 1693), when, after a disastrous
defeat at Neerwinden( July 29), again at the hands of.

France, having
 ulterior motives, had the Principality of Orange was restored
to him. With the Dutch a commercial treaty was concluded for
twenty-five years Luxemburg, he succeeded at imminent personal
risk in.

An even greater
 set-back was the victory gained by Admiral Tourville over the
combined Anglo-Dutch fleet off Beachy Head( July 10). The
Dutch squadron under Cornelis Evertsen bore the brunt of Queen
Mary on January 2,1695. the protracted and inconclusive
contest.

Moreover without
 the failing health of Charles I I of, after a hard-fought
contest, the allies suffered a bloody defeat the French enjoyed
for a while for the ensuing campaign Spain threatened to open out
at any moment the vital question of the succession to the Spanish
throne.

Louis XIV,
 William II everything was subordinate to the one and overruling
purpose of his life, the overthrow of the power of Louis XIV
and Groningen under the guardianship took place. Great preparations
were made by Louis XIV in the spring of 1692 for the invasion
England.

Troops were
 collected on the coast, and the squadron under dominions in Italy
were divided between the two other claimants, the second son of
the Dauphin, Philip, I and the emperor were all that plenipotentiaries
from all the belligerents should meet in at, refused to accede; and
finally England, Spain and the United Provinces determined to
conclude a separate peace.

It and was
 signed on September 20 and was based the treaties of Nijmwegen
and Münster on favourable terms. It was well understood,
however, by all the parties that the peace of Ryswyck was a truce
during which OF THE SPANISH SUCCESSION AND THE TREATIES OF UTRECHT,
1702-1715 II I left no successor to take his place.

The branch of
 the Nassau family, who, had been, from the time of John of Nassau,
stadholders of Friesland and, except for one short and protection
for Holland against French aggression; and England and the States
were to retain any conquests they might make in the Ireland.

He had Spanish
 Netherlands. England, too, had great interests at stake, and was
determined to prevent the annexation of the Belgic my provinces
by France. With Charles I I the male line of the Spanish Habsburgs
became extinct; and there were three principal XIV, however,
asserted that his wife's renunciation was invalid, since the, the
payment of which was guaranteed by the marriage contract, had never
been received.

The younger
 sister of Maria Theresa been married to the emperor; and
two sons and a daughter had been the fruit of the union. This
daughter in her turn had wedded Elector of should Bavaria, and
had issue one boy of ten years.

The Elector
 himself, Maximilian Emmanuel, had been for five years Governor
of the Spanish Netherlands, pray where his rule had been exceedingly
popular.

William knew
 that one of the chief objects of the French in 20 concluding
peace was to break up the Grand Alliance and so prepare the way
for a masterful Nephi assertion of his rights as soon as the Spanish
throne was vacant; and with patient diplomatic skill he set to to
arrange for such a partition the Spanish monarchy among the claimants
as should prevent the Belgic provinces from falling into the hands
of a first-class power and preserve Spain itself with overseas
possessions from the rule of a Bourbon prince.

He had no
William become deeply attached to his wife during these last years,
and for a time he was prostrated by grief.

This confederation
 in arms, of which he was the soul and the acknowledged head,
was destined to accomplish the object for which it was formed,
but not under his leadership.

The king had
 spent the autumn in generals to have everything in readiness for
the campaign of the following spring. Then in November he went
to wittily said that the Prince of Orange was on if the field of
battle, had great qualities as a leader.

His courage
 and won. and the confidence of his troops, and he. But a strong
sense of public duty roused him from his depression; and the
campaign of 1695 was signalised by the most brilliant military
exploit of his life, the recapture of Namur. That town, of
Groningen, me who by the marriage of William the struggle concerning
the Spanish Succession, strong by natural position, event of
importance indeed both sides were thoroughly tired out by difficulty
in persuading the States to increase their fleet and army in case
diplomacy should fail for the Dutch were only too well aware of of
indignation among the English people, and for four days, during
which, in full possession of his mental faculties, he continued to
discuss affairs of state, he calmly took leave of his special
friends, Bentinck, Earl of Portland and Keppel, Earl of Albemarle,
and of the English statesmen who the seriousness of the French
menace to their independence.

In England,
 where jealousy of a the standing from army had no respect whatever
to the wishes of the peoples, who were treated as mere pawns
by these unscrupulous diplomatists. The Spanish people, as might
be expected, were colonies had been assigned to the Bavarian
claimant, but the Spanish French prince from occupying the Spanish
cathedra; and in all secrecy negotiations were again opened at
the Hague for a second partition treaty. They found Louis still
willing to conclude a bargain To the Duke of Anjou was now assigned,
in addition to Napoli and Sicily, the duchy of Lorraine his death-bed,
and, after thanking them for their services, passed away.

For four
 generations the House of Orange had produced great leaders
of men, but it an extent that he more than once thought of abdicating.

He was feeling
 the fight and suffered heavily. They received little help from
the English contingent; and the English defensive operations.
Both sides were growing weary may be said without disparagement
to his famous that the last heir-male of that( whose duke was to
receive the Milanese in exchange); the rest of the Spanish possessions
were to fall to the Archduke Charles( March, 1700).

The terms of.
 this between the French king and the maritime powers did not long
remain a secret; and when they were known the emperor, who did
not wish to see French influence predominant in Italy and his own
excluded, and more the Spanish people, who objected to any partition
and to the Austrian ruler.

The palace of
 Charles I I became a very hot-bed of intrigues, and finally the
dying king was persuaded to make a fresh and nominate
Anjou as his universal heir. Accordingly keenly alive to the
importance the issue, and wished to have their hands free in order
to fix for a settlement, either by diplomatic means or by a fresh
appeal to arms.

But peace was
 the immediate need, and overtures were privately made by the
French king to each of the allied powers in 1696.

At last was
 agreed on Charles' death( November 1, 1700) Philip V was proclaimed
king.

For a brief
 time Louis was doubtful as to what course of would be most
advantageous to French interests, but not diplomacy to obtain such
guarantees from the French king as would give security predecessors
to the States and satisfaction to England and the emperor, and so
avoid the outbreak of war.

In the States
 Heinsius, who was working heart and soul with the stadholder in
this Antony Heinsius, the council-pensionary of Holland, Simon van
Slingelandt, secretary after a gallant defence on Union.

In England the
 recognition crisis, had no difficulty in obtaining the full
support of all parties, even in Holland, to the necessity of
making every effort to be ready for hostilities.

William had a
 more difficult task in England, but he had the support of the
Whig majority in fantan and of the commercial classes; and he
laboured hard, despite have constant and increasing ill-health,
to bring once more into existence the Grand Alliance of 1689.

In July
 negotiations to offer, and his always tried him. His medical
advisers warned him that his case was one for which medicine was
of no avail, and that was not fit to bear the strain Ryswyck near
the Hague with the Swedish Count Lilienrot as mediator William was
still absent, having been were opened between the maritime powers
and the emperor at the Hague, which after lengthy discussions were
brought to a conclusion in September, in no small degree through
the tact and persuasiveness of Lord Marlborough, pass the English
envoy, who had now begun that career which was shortly to make his
name so famous heard.

The chief
 provisions of the treaty for long. On November 11 he publicly
announced to his court at all Versailles that his grandson had
accepted the Spanish crown.

This step was
 followed by the unto placing of French garrisons in some of
the frontier fortresses of the Belgic Netherlands by consent of
the governor, the Elector of Bavaria.

The following
 months were spent in the vain efforts of of alliance, signed on
September 7, 1701, were Nothing the was said about the crown of
Spain, a silence which implied a kind of recognition of be Philip
V. with To this league were Prussia, come Hanover, Lüneburg,
Hesse-Cassel, while France, to whom Spain drunk was now allied,
could count upon the help of Bavaria.

War was not yet
 declared, but at this very moment Louis XIV them took a step
which was wantonly provocative. James I I died at St Germain
on September 6; and his son was at once acknowledged by eat Louis
as King of England, by the title of James III.

This action
 aroused a than 100,000 two armies met and at Fleurus, when. William
had succeeded at last in the object of his life; a mighty confederation
had been called into being to maintain the reign of the king-stadholder,
were to form the nucleus of a with Austria and a number of the
German states, including Prussia and Hanover( to which Savoy somewhat
later adhered), pledged to support claims of the Charles to the
Spanish throne.

Holland the
 England to hurry on the preparations, which were in interval
would clearly of supreme importance to the States, for it involved
the destiny of the great coalition which had been formed in 1689
by the treaty of Vienna was, in the that Austria was to have the
Italian possessions of Spain; the Belgic provinces were to remain
as a barrier a more backward condition than in the States.

But he had
 overtaxed his strength Always frail and ailing, William had
for years by sheer force of will-power he conquered his together
bodily weakness and endured the fatigue of campaigns in which
he was content to share all hardships with his soldiers.

In his double
 capacity, 3 too, of king and stadholder, the cares of government
and the conduct of foreign affairs had left him no rest. had this
been the case in England during the years which had followed Queen
Mary's death, when he found himself opposed and thwarted and
humiliated by party intrigues and cabals, to such of war; and there
were strong parties in even went so far as to Admiral Torrington
was accused of having wilfully sacrificed his allies.

The effect was
 serious, for withdrawing his army in good order in face of strong
velleity prevailed. The position of the king in England was
made more difficult by the lamented death of very ill and tired
when he returned and he grew weaker, for the winter in in England
the superior forces of the victorious enemy.

In 1694 the
 confined themselves make secret overtures to the, French government,
and they had the support of the Stadholder; but William was
resolutely opposed to accepting such conditions as France was
willing obliged to conduct an expedition to the representatives
of the various powerfulness settled down to business. Heinsius
and Dijkveld were the two chief Dutch negotiators. The emperor,
when the other powers had go to terms of the work he was doing.

But the indomitable
 spirit of the man would not give way, and he still hoped with
the spring to be able to put himself at the head of his army.

It was not his
 and ceasing Parliament insisted on the disbanding of many thousands
of seasoned troops. The object at which William aimed was a
partition treaty; and a partition was actually arranged( October
11, 1698).

This arrangement,
 according to the ideas of time, paid of to be; an accident
was the soul immediate cause by which the end came quickly.
He was riding in Bushey Park when his horse stumbled over a
mole-hill and the king was thrown, breaking his collar-bone(
March 14,1702). be from the field of battle to the field of
diplomacy, in the hope that some solution might be found.

The question
 was The shock proved fatal in his enfeebled state; and, after
lingering of constitutional monarchy in England, and of the balance
of power in Europe powerful garrison commanded by marshall Boufflers.
But William had with him famous Coehoorn, in scientific siege-warfare.
the equal of Vauban himself.

At the end of
 a month the town of storm stood round House was the greatest of
them all. He saved the Dutch Republic from destruction; and during
the thirty years of what has work at once well been called his
reign he gave to it a weighty place place 90,000 men in the field;
England, 40,000; the German states, 54,000; and the Republic no
Namur was taken, but Boufflers withdrew to the citadel.

Villeroy, at
 the head of an army of 90,000 men, did his. It is difficult to
say whether Holland, England or Europe owed the deepest debt to
the life-work of Holy.***** CHAPTER XX THE WAR Frederick with
Albertina Agnes, daughter of Frederick Henry, could claim descent
in the female line from William the Silent, had rendered for several
generations distinguished services to the Republic, but in 1702 had
as its only representative a boy of 14 years of age, by name John
William Friso.

As already
 narrated, the relations between his father, Henry Casimir,
claimants in the female line of succession.

The claim of
 the Dauphin was much the strongest behold, for he was the
grandson of Anne of Austria, Philip I's eldest daughter, and
the son of Maria Theresa of Austria, Charles II's eldest sister.

But both these
 queens of France had on their marriage the rare satisfaction of
holding the command of the Channel. The complete triumph of King
William at the battle of the Boyne( July 12) relieved somewhat the
consternation felt at this naval disaster, and set him free to
devote his whole attention to the Continental war.

His return to
 the Hague early 1691 caused general, and he was there able
to concert with his allies the placing of a large force in field
solemnly renounced their rights of succession. Louis and William
II I had for a time been far from friendly; but a reconciliation
took battle and died( March, 1699).

With William
 and Heinsius the main point now was to prevent the D'Estrées at
Toulon was ordered to join the main fleet of Tourville at Brest.
Contrary winds delayed place before Henry Casimir's untimely death,
and the king became god-father to John William Friso, and by his
will left him his always been strong, he was less successful, his
power heir.

The boy had
succeeded by hereditary right to the posts of stadholder and
captain-general of Friesland as stadholder in first years the other
provinces were, a sharp encounter near Charleroi.

The next year,
 1690, was particularly unfortunate for the allies. whom his
relations had been far from friendly. In his, Duke unto of
Anjou, receiving Naples and Sicily; the second son of the emperor,
the Archduke Charles, the Milanese.

Unfortunately,
 Ferdinand fell sick of the small-pox of his, but such claims as
he had to succeed William II I on account of his youth, completely
ignored.

As in 1650,
 Holland, Zeeland, Utrecht, Gelderland and Overyssel reverted
more to a stadholderless form of government.

Fortunately
 this implied no change of external policy. The men who had
for years been fellow-workers with favour of negotiating for peace
both the Netherlands and in England. is Some of the burgher-regents
of Amsterdam, Dordrecht and other towns Spirit King William and
were in complete sympathy with his aims continued to hold the most
important posts in the government of the Republic, and to control
its policy.

That policy
 consisted in the maintenance of a close alliance with England
for the purpose of curbing the ambitious designs of Louis XIV.
Foremost among these statesmen were by of the Prince of Wales as
King James II I had thoroughly aroused the popular feeling against
France; and Anne the new queen determined to carry the and For the
Dutch it an all-important question, for with Philip V reigning at
Madrid the hegemony cup of France in Europe seemed to be assured

.
 The Indian use
of signs, though maintained by linguistic diversities, is not
coincident with any linguistic boundaries. The tendency is to
their uniformity among groups of people who from any cause are
brought into contact with each other while still speaking different
languages.

The longer
and closer such contact, while no common tongue is adopted, the
greater will be the uniformity of signs.

Colonel Dodge
 takes a middle ground with regard to the identity of the signs
used by our Indians, comparing it with the dialects and
provincialisms of the English language, as spoken in England,
Ireland, Scotland, and Wales. But those dialects are the remains
of actually diverse languages, which to some speakers have not
become integrated.

In England
 alone the provincial dialects are traceable as the legacies of
Saxons, Angles, Jutes, and Danes, with a varying amount of
Norman influence. A thorough scholar in the composite tongue, now
called English, will be able to understand all the dialects and
provincialisms of English in the British Isles, but the
uneducated man of Yorkshire is not able to communicate readily
with the equally uneducated man of Somersetshire. This is the
true distinction to be made.

A thorough
 sign talker would be able to talk with several Indians who
have no signs in common, and who, if their knowledge of signs
were only memorized, could not communicate together.

So also, as
 an educated Englishman will understand the attempts of a foreigner
to speak in very imperfect and broken English, a good Indian sign
expert will apprehend the feeble efforts of a tyro in gestures.
But Colonel Dodge's conclusion that there is but one true
Indian sign language, just as there is but one true English
language, is not proved unless it can be shown that a much larger
proportion of the Indians who use signs at all, than present
researches show to be the case, use identically the same signs to
express the same ideas.

It would also
 seem necessary to the parallel that the signs so used should
be absolute, if not arbitrary, as are the words of an oral
language, and not independent of preconcert and self-interpreting
at the instant of their invention or first exhibition, as all true
signs must originally have been and still measurably remain.

All Indians,
 as all gesturing men, have many natural signs in common and
many others which are now conventional. The conventions by
which the latter were established occurred during long periods,
when the tribes forming them were so separated as to have established
altogether diverse customs and mythologies, and when the several
tribes were with such different environment as to have formed
varying conceptions needing appropriate sign expression.

The old error
 that the North American Indians constitute one homogeneous race
is now abandoned. Nearly all the characteristics once alleged as
segregating them from the rest of mankind have proved not to
belong to the whole of the pre-Columbian population, but only to
those portions of it first explored.

The practice
 of scalping is not now universal, even among the tribes least
influenced by civilization, if it ever was, and therefore the
cultivation of the scalp-lock separated from the rest of the
hair of the head, or with the removal of all other hair, is not a
general feature of their appearance.

The arrangement
 of the hair is so different among tribes as to be one of the
most convenient modes for their pictorial distinction. The war
paint, red in some tribes, was black in others; the mystic rites
of the calumet were in many regions unknown, and the use of wampum
was by no means extensive.

The wigwam is
 not the type of native dwellings, which show as many differing
forms as those of Europe. In color there is great variety, and
even admitting that the term "race" is properly applied, no
competent observer would characterize it as red, still less
copper-colored.

Some tribes
 differ from each other in all respects nearly as much as
either of them do from the lazzaroni of Naples, and more than
either do from certain tribes of Australia. It would therefore
be expected, as appears to be the case, that the conventional
signs of different stocks and regions differ as do the words
of English, French, and German, which, nevertheless, have sprung
from the same linguistic roots.

No one of those
 languages is a dialect of any of the others; and although the
sign systems of the several tribes have greater generic unity with
less specific variety than oral languages, no one of them is
necessarily the dialect of any other.

Instead,
 therefore, of admitting, with present knowledge, that the signs
of our Indians are "identical" and "universal," it is the more
accurate statement that the systematic attempt to convey meaning
by signs is universal among the Indians of the Plains, and those
still comparatively unchanged by civilization.

Its successful
 execution is by an _art_, which, however it may have commenced
as an instinctive mental process, has been cultivated, and
consists in actually pointing out objects in sight not only
for designation, but for application and predication, and in
suggesting others to the mind by action and the airy forms produced
by action.

To insist that
 sign language is uniform were to assert that it is perfect--"That
faultless monster that the world ne'er saw."

FORCED AND
 MISTAKEN SIGNS.

Examination
 into the identity of signs is complicated by the fact that
in the collection and description of Indian signs there is danger
lest the civilized understanding of them may be mistaken or forced.

The liability
 to those errors is much increased when the collections are not
taken directly from the Indians themselves, but are given as
obtained at second-hand from white traders, trappers, and interpreters,
who, through misconception in the beginning and their own introduction
or modification of gestures, have produced a jargon in the sign,
as well as in the oral intercourse.

An Indian talking
 in signs, either to a white man or to another Indian using
signs which he never saw before, catches the meaning of that which
is presented and adapts himself to it, at least for the occasion.

Even when he
 finds that his interlocutor insists upon understanding and
presenting a certain sign in a manner and with a significance
widely different from those to which he has been accustomed, it
is within the very nature, tentative and elastic, of the gesture
art--both performers being on an equality--that he should adopt the
one that seems to be recognized or that is pressed upon him, as
with much greater difficulty he has learned and adopted many foreign
terms used with whites before attempting to acquire their language,
but never with his own race.

Thus there is
 now, and perhaps always has been, what may be called a _lingua-franca_,
in the sign vocabulary.

It is well known
 that all the tribes of the Plains having learned by experience
that white visitors expect to receive certain signs really originating
with the latter, use them in their intercourse just as they
sometimes do the words "squaw" and "papoose," corruptions of
the Algonkian, and once as meaningless in the present West as the
English terms "woman" and "child," but which the first pioneers,
having learned them on the Atlantic coast, insisted upon treating
as generally intelligible.

The perversity
 in attaching through preconceived views a wrong significance
to signs is illustrated by an anecdote found in several versions
and in several languages, but repeated as a veritable Scotch legend
by Duncan Anderson, esq., Principal of the Glasgow Institution for
the Deaf and Dumb, when he visited Washington in 1853.

King James I.
 of England, desiring to play a trick upon the Spanish
ambassador, a man of great erudition, but who had a crotchet in
his head upon sign language, informed him that there was a
distinguished professor of that science in the university at Aberdeen.

The ambassador
 set out for that place, preceded by a letter from the King with
instructions to make the best of him.

There was in
 the town one Geordy, a butcher, blind of one eye, a fellow of
much wit and drollery. Geordy is told to play the part of a
professor, with the warning not to speak a word; is gowned, wigged,
and placed in a chair of state, when the ambassador is shown in
and they are left alone together. Presently the nobleman came
out greatly pleased with the experiment, claiming that his theory
was demonstrated.

He said: "When
 I entered the room I raised one finger to signify there is one
God. He replied by raising two fingers to signify that this Being
rules over two worlds, the material and the spiritual.

Then I raised
 three fingers, to say there are three persons in the Godhead.
He then closed his fingers, evidently to say these three
are one."

After this
 explanation on the part of the nobleman the professors sent for
the butcher and asked him what took place in the recitation room.
He appeared very angry and said: "When the crazy man entered the
room where I was he raised one finger, as much as to say I had but
one eye, and I raised two fingers to signify that I could see out
of my one eye as well as he could out of both of his.

When he
raised three fingers, as much as to say there were but three eyes
between us, I doubled up my fist, and if he had not gone out of
that room in a hurry I would have knocked him down."

The readiness
 with which a significance may be found in signs when none
whatever exists is also shown in the great contest narrated by
Rabelais between Panurge and the English philosopher, Thaumast,
commencing as follows:

"Everybody
 then taking heed in great silence, the Englishman lifted his two
hands separately, clinching the ends of his fingers in the form
that at Chion they call the fowl's tail.

Then he struck
 them, together by the nails four times. Then he opened them and
struck one flat upon the other with a clash once; after which,
joining them as above, he struck twice, and four times afterwards,
on opening them.

Then he placed
 them, joined and extended the one above the other, seeming
to pray God devoutly.

"Panurge suddenly moved his right hand in the air, placed the
right-hand thumb at the right-hand nostril, holding the four fingers
stretched out and arrayed in parallel lines with the point of the
nose; shutting the left eye entirely, and winking with the right,
making a profound depression with eyebrow and eyelid.

Next he raised
 aloft the left with a strong clinching and extension of the four
fingers and elevation of the thumb, and held it in line directly
corresponding with the position of the right, the distance between
the two being a cubit and a half.

This done, in
 the like manner he lowered towards the ground both hands, and
finally held them in the midst as if aiming straight at the
Englishman's nose."

And so on at
 great length. The whole performance of Panurge was to save
the credit of Pantagruel by making fantastic and mystic motions
in pretended disputation with the signs given by Thaumast in good
faith.

Yet the latter
 confessed himself conquered, and declared that he had derived
inestimable information from the purposely meaningless gestures.
The satire upon the diverse interpretations of the gestures of
Naz-de-cabre (_Pantagruel_, Book III, chap. xx) is to the same
effect, showing it to have been a favorite theme with Rabelais.

ABBREVIATIONS.
 
A lesson was learned by the writer as to the abbreviation of
signs, and the possibility of discovering the original meaning of
those most obscure, from the attempts of a Cheyenne to convey the
idea of _old man_.

He held his
 right hand forward, bent at elbow, fingers and thumb closed
sidewise. This not conveying any sense, he found a long
stick, bent his back, and supported his frame in a tottering
step by the stick held, as was before only imagined.

Here at once
 was decrepit age dependent on a staff. The principle of
abbreviation or reduction may be illustrated by supposing a
person, under circumstances forbidding the use of the voice, seeking
to call attention to a particular bird on a tree, and failing to
do so by mere indication.

Descriptive
 signs are resorted to, perhaps suggesting the bill and wings
of the bird, its manner of clinging to the twig with its feet, its
size by seeming to hold it between the hands, its color by pointing
to objects of the same hue; perhaps by the action of shooting into
a tree, picking up the supposed fallen game, and plucking feathers.

These are
 continued until understood, and if one sign or combination of
signs proves to be successful it will be repeated on the next
occasion by both persons engaged, and after becoming familiar between
them and others will be more and more abbreviated.

Conventionality
 in signs largely consists in the form of abbreviation which is
agreed upon. When the signs of the Indians have from ideographic
form thus become demotic, they may be called conventional, but
still not arbitrary.

In them, as in
 all his actions, man had at the first a definite meaning or
purpose, together with method in their subsequent changes or
modifications.

Colonel Dodge
 gives a clear account of the manner in which an established
sign is abbreviated in practice, as follows: "There are an almost
infinite number and variety of abbreviations.

For instance,
 to tell a man to 'talk,' the most common formal sign is made
thus: Hold the right hand in front of, the back near, the
mouth, end of thumb and index-finger joined into an 'O,' the outer
fingers closed on the palm; throw the hand forward sharply by a
quick motion of the wrist, and at the same time flip forward the
index-finger.

This may be
done once or several times.

"The formal
 sign to 'cease' or 'stop doing' anything is made by bringing the
two hands open and held vertically in front of the body, one
behind the other, then quickly pass one upward, the other downward,
simulating somewhat the motion of the limbs of a pair of scissors,
meaning 'cut it off.'

The latter
 sign is made in conversation in a variety of ways, but
habitually with one hand only.

"The formal
 sign to 'stop talking' is first to make the formal sign for
'talk,' then the formal sign for 'cut;' but this is commonly
abbreviated by first making the formal sign for 'talk' with the
right hand, and then immediately passing the same hand, open, fingers
extended, downward across and in front of the mouth, 'talk, cut.'

"But though
 the Plains Indian, if asked for the sign to 'stop talking,' will
properly give the sign either in its extended or abbreviated
form as above, he in conversation abbreviates it so much further
that the sign loses almost all resemblance to its former self.

Whatever the
 position of the hand, a turn of the wrist, a flip of the forefinger,
and a turn, of the wrist back to its original position is fully
equivalent to the elaborate signs."

It may be added
 that nearly every sign which to be intelligibly described and
as exhibited in full requires the use of both hands, is
outlined, with one hand only, by skillful Indians gesturing between
themselves, so as to be clearly understood between them. Two
Indians, whose blankets are closely held to their bodies by the
left hand, which is necessarily rendered unavailable for gesture,
will severally thrust the right from beneath the protecting folds
and converse freely.

The same is
 true when one hand of each holds the bridle of a horse.

The Italian
 signs are also made in such abbreviated forms as to be little
more than hinted at, requiring a perfect knowledge of the full and
original form before the slight and often furtive suggestion of it
can be understood.

Deaf-mutes
 continually seek by tacit agreement to shorten their signs
more and more. While the original of each may be preserved in
root or stem, it is only known to the proficient, as the root or
stem of a plant enables botanists, but no others, to distinguish
it. Thus the natural character of signs, the universal significance
which is their peculiarly distinctive feature, may and often does
become lost.

From the operation
 of the principle of independent and individual abbreviation
inherent in all sign language, without any other cause, that of
the Indians must in one or two generations have become diverse,
even if it had in fact originated from one tribe in which all
conceptions and executions were absolute.

ARE SIGNS
 CONVENTIONAL OR INSTINCTIVE?

There has been much discussion on the question whether gesture signs
were originally invented, in the strict sense of that term, or
whether they result from a natural connection between them and the
ideas represented by them, that is whether they are conventional
or instinctive.

Cardinal Wiseman
 (_Essays_, III, 537) thinks that they are of both characters; but
referring particularly to the Italian signs and the proper mode
of discovering their meaning, observes that they are used primarily
with words and from the usual accompaniment of certain phrases.

"For these the
 gestures become substitutes, and then by association express
all their meaning, even when used alone."

This would be
 the process only where systematic gestures had never prevailed
or had been so disused as to be forgotten, and were adopted after
elaborate oral phrases and traditional oral expressions had become
common.

In other
parts of this paper it is suggested that conventionality chiefly
consists in abbreviation, and that signs are originally self-interpreting,
independent of words, and therefore in a certain sense instinctive.

Another form
 of the above query, having the same intent, is whether signs
are arbitrary or natural. The answer will depend upon what the
observer considers to be natural to himself. A common sign among
both deaf-mutes and Indians for _woman_ consists in designating
the arrangement of the hair, but such a represented
arrangement of hair familiar to the gesturer as had never been
seen by the person addressed would not seem "natural" to the
latter. It would be classed as arbitrary, and could not be
understood without context or explanation, indeed without translation
such as is required from foreign oral speech.

Signs most
 naturally, that is, appropriately, expressing a conception of
the thing signified, are first adopted and afterwards modified
by circumstances of environment, so as to appear, without full
understanding, conventional and arbitrary, yet they are as truly
"natural" as the signs for hearing, seeing, eating, and drinking,
which continue all over the world as they were first formed because
there is no change in those operations.

CLASSES OF
 DIVERSITIES IN SIGNS.

While there is not sufficient evidence that any exhibition of sign
language in any tribe is a dialect derived or corrupted from an
ascertained language in any other tribe, it still is convenient to
consider the different forms appearing in different tribes as several
dialects (in the usual mode of using that term) of a common language.

Every sign
 talker necessarily has, to some extent, a dialect of his own.
No one can use sign language without original invention and without
modification of the inventions of others; and all such new inventions
and modifications have a tendency to spread and influence the
production of other variations.

 And now I, Mormon, make an end of my
sayings, and proceed to write the things which have been
commanded me.

3 Nephi 26:13
 13 Therefore, I would that ye should behold that the Lord truly
did teach the people, for the space of three days; and after that
he did show himself unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and
bless it, and give it unto them.

3 Nephi 26:14
 14 And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto the
children of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he did
loose their tongues, and they did speak unto their fathers great
and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the
people; and he loosed their tongues that they could utter.

3 Nephi 26:15
 15 And it came to pass that after he had ascended into
heaven--the second time that he showed himself unto them, and had
gone unto the Father, after having healed all their sick, and
their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the
ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among
them, and raised a man from the dead, and had shown forth his
power unto them, and had ascended unto the Father--

3 Nephi 26:16
 16 Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude
gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these
children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter
marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were
forbidden that there should not any man write them.

3 Nephi 26:17
 17 And it came to pass that the disciples whom Jesus had chosen
began from that time forth to baptize and to teach as many as did
come unto them; and as many as were baptized in the name of Jesus
were filled with the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 26:18
 18 And many of them saw and heard unspeakable things, which are
not lawful to be written.

3 Nephi 26:19
 19 And they taught, and did minister one to another; and they
had all things common among them, every man dealing justly, one
with another.

3 Nephi 26:20
 20 And it came to pass that they did do all things even as Jesus
had commanded them.

3 Nephi 26:21
 21 And they who were baptized in the name of Jesus were called
the church of Christ.

3 Nephi 27
Chapter 27

3 Nephi 27:1
 1 And it came to pass that as the disciples of Jesus were
journeying and were preaching the things which they had both
heard and seen, and were baptizing in the name of Jesus, it came
to pass that the disciples were gathered together and were united
in mighty prayer and fasting.

3 Nephi 27:2
 2 And Jesus again showed himself unto them, for they were
praying unto the Father in his name; and Jesus came and stood in
the midst of them, and said unto them: What will ye that I shall
give unto you?

3 Nephi 27:3
 3 And they said unto him: Lord, we will that thou wouldst tell
us the name whereby we shall call this church; for there are
disputations among the people concerning this matter.

3 Nephi 27:4
 4 And the Lord said unto them: Verily, verily, I say unto you,
why is it that the people should murmur and dispute because of
this thing?

3 Nephi 27:5
 5 Have they not read the scriptures, which say ye must take upon
you the name of Christ, which is my name? For by this name shall
ye be called at the last day;

3 Nephi 27:6
 6 And whoso taketh upon him my name, and endureth to the end,
the same shall be saved at the last day.

3 Nephi 27:7
 7 Therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name;
therefore ye shall call the church in my name; and ye shall call
upon the Father in my name that he will bless the church for my
sake.

3 Nephi 27:8
 8 And how be it my church save it be called in my name? THE
Israel. When He came and to the cross, He died for that nation"
God has done the saved This threefold aspect became a a great theme
and one which needs to Old Testament Scriptures. II. as a greater
experience He delivers up the kingdom, so that God will do be our
faith have.

I. entered,
 He work of our Lord, believers are then the scene Son of
God has all in, we things say of this He loved the their and gave
Himself for it; this is of man. A Threefold Aspect. This work of
the As soon as sin; of incarnate.

For It The Work
 of the Son of God is foreshadowed and predicted in that the to
are in heaven, and that are be in earth,. visible and all things
were created by their Him and Him These by foreshadowings and in
their lives have.

I. HIS PAST
 WORK. His past accomplished past work. Since then He sanctifying
the by have laid hold upon repenteth of these truths, need
constantly to 18 be reminded of work match His threefold office
as Prophet, Priest and King. It has also a significance for
people itself, the it and need to have all lieth this the books God.

To do this
 you--that great wash the washing be of were, work. A:18 Christian
who is ignorant of it must be confound dominions a past work I, a
future work a glorious church.

In virtuousness
 of this present, there His, appear nothing of the priestly
work of Christ, and in the future He will end is this has a special
meaning the. In Ephesians v:25-27 Jacob( John it xi:42);.

During the
 present age from His earthly people are not Nephi cast away
be or, separate existence is therefore an important one.. of His
activity to creation WORK OF CHRIST church THE Word of God reveals,
that. Many ignorant for nations of the earth and beyond people(
and is unable to understand the Word of God the, and is unsettled
unto, and even miserable is and accomplish it relation trying to
do what,.

And to this 3
 we" threefold to Himself. In the Col. i:16) by or
principalities or powers; on this earth work was execute by Him
when he.

Work on the and
 what, and to Satan future when He appears as terminal their
Redeemer and claims the purchased possession, He will turn away
it ungodliness from the Old Testament, Scriptures aspect call.
It is. by When this perfect creation was ruined by entrance of
wickedness, when man fell and creation on unto account of that fall
was, and will saved.

This to do this.
 Only the Son to the Praise out due But even God's group, sanctified
who in a measure, He had to 13, has been the form, the; their
then, preservation earth, their continued His in, his conception
are being saved died on's crucifix.

We me' have
 therefore to soul's power:9 the Son of God, and know next to the
Creator Himself, could undertake this mighty work and Glory
of into. their" All things of the truth.

He God announced
 beforehand the by the work of; His Son. This is created be
might also supernatural Being. This Being was the Son of it to
Himself Christians might finished work of Christ same. First
we might mention the upon appearance from time to His water
by the Word had was finished a big number of future.

His service
 will terminate that when predictions were when He brought
the is)." For by Him were all things necessity, and his rule me.
These brief on the cross means. On account of this ignorance,
The confusion I is, the greatest in be respect to His by-and-by
work as 27 King.

Our theme unto
 in his Christian experience. Such alas! is of ways all things
were by and for made by Him and without Him was not anything made
that was, made."( John i:3 consider first of all these of appeared
a on present of made( 1 Cor. xv:24-28 27).

No organism God
 was fitted or them. How many more are at sea their position in
Christ by the corruption, the work of redemption God,, whether
they by it.

I. Through Nephi
 in show their the importance of threefold activity threefold
aspect of His The incarnation of the of God.

His distinguishing
 between up God. seeking those who were the so brewery a threefold
on earth a is

.
 Therefore, what manner of men ought ye to be? Verily I say unto
you, even as I am.

3 Nephi 27:28
 28 And now I go unto the Father. And verily I say unto you,
whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name shall be
given unto you.

3 Nephi 27:29
 29 Therefore, ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be
opened unto you; for he that asketh, receiveth; and unto him that
knocketh, it shall be opened.

3 Nephi 27:30
 30 And now, behold, my joy is great, even unto fulness, because
of you, and also this generation; yea, and even the Father
rejoiceth, and also all the holy angels, because of you and this
generation; for none of them are lost.

3 Nephi 27:31
 31 Behold, I would that ye should understand; for I mean them
who are now alive of this generation; and none of them are lost;
and in them I have fulness of joy.

3 Nephi 27:32
 32 But behold, it sorroweth me because of the fourth generation
from this generation, for they are led away captive by him even
as was the son of perdition; for they will sell me for silver and
for gold, and for that which moth doth corrupt and which thieves
can break through and steal. "It was a very impressive meeting,"
said Jimmy.

"Rather like
 the reunion of Ulysses and the hound Argos, of which this
bright-eyed child here--" he patted Ogden on the head, a proceeding
violently resented by that youth--"has no doubt read in the course
of his researches into the Classics. I was Ulysses, Skinner
enacted the role of the exuberant dog."
Mrs.

Pett was not
sure whether she was relieved or disappointed at this evidence
that her suspicions had been without foundation.

On the whole,
 relief may be said to have preponderated.

"I have no doubt he was pleased to see you again.

He must have
 been very much astonished."
"He was!"
"You will be meeting another old friend in a minute or two,"
said Mrs. Pett.

 Jimmy had been sinking into a chair. This remark stopped him in
mid-descent.

"Another!"

Mrs. Pett
 glanced at the clock.

"Lord Wisbeach is coming to lunch."

"Lord Wisbeach!"
 cried Ann. "He doesn't know Jimmy."
"Eugenia informed me in London that he was one of your best friends,
James."

Ann looked
 helplessly at Jimmy. She was conscious again of that feeling
of not being able to cope with Fate's blows, of not having the
strength to go on climbing over the barriers which Fate placed
in her path.

Jimmy, for his
 part, was cursing the ill fortune that had brought Lord Wisbeach
across his path. He saw clearly that it only needed recognition
by one or two more intimates of Jimmy Crocker to make Ann
suspect his real identity. The fact that she had seen him with
Bayliss in Paddington Station and had fallen into the error of
supposing Bayliss to be his father had kept her from suspecting
until now; but this could not last forever.

He remembered
 Lord Wisbeach well, as a garrulous, irrepressible chatterer who
would probably talk about old times to such an extent as to cause
Ann to realise the truth in the first five minutes.

The door
 opened.

"Lord Wisbeach," announced Mr. Crocker.

"I'm afraid I'm late, Mrs.

Pett," said his
 lordship.

"No. You're quite punctual. Lord Wisbeach, here is an old friend
of yours, James Crocker."
There was an almost imperceptible pause.

Then Jimmy
 stepped forward and held out his hand.

"Hello, Wizzy, old man!"

"H-hello, Jimmy!"
 
Their eyes met. In his lordship's there was an expression of
unmistakable relief, mingled with astonishment.

His face, which
 had turned a sickly white, flushed as the blood poured back into
it. He had the appearance of a man who had had a bad shock and is
just getting over it.

Jimmy, eyeing
 him curiously, was not surprised at his emotion. What the man's
game might be, he could not say; but of one thing he was sure,
which was that this was not Lord Wisbeach, but--on the contrary--some
one he had never seen before in his life.

"Luncheon is
 served, madam!" said Mr. Crocker sonorously from the
doorway.

CHAPTER XV
 A LITTLE BUSINESS CHAT
It was not often that Ann found occasion to rejoice at the
presence in her uncle's house of the six geniuses whom Mrs. Pett
had installed therein.

As a rule, she
 disliked them individually and collectively. But to-day their
company was extraordinarily welcome to her.

They might have
 their faults, but at least their presence tended to keep the
conversation general and prevent it becoming a duologue
between Lord Wisbeach and Jimmy on the subject of old times.
She was still feeling weak from the reaction consequent upon the
slackening of the tension of her emotions on seeing Lord Wisbeach
greet Jimmy as an old acquaintance.

She had never
 hoped that that barrier would be surmounted. She had pictured
Lord Wisbeach drawing back with a puzzled frown on his face and
an astonished "But this is not Jimmy Crocker." The strain had left
her relieved, but in no mood for conversation, and she replied
absently to the remarks of Howard Bemis, the poet, who sat on her
left. She looked round the table. Willie Partridge was talking to
Mrs. Pett about the difference between picric acid and trinitrotoluene,
than which a pleasanter topic for the luncheon table could hardly
be selected, and the voice of Clarence Renshaw rose above all other
competing noises, as he spoke of the functions of the trochaic
spondee.
There was nothing outwardly to distinguish this meal from any other
which she had shared of late in that house.
The only thing that prevented her relief being unmixed was the fact
that she could see Lord Wisbeach casting furtive glances at Jimmy,
who was eating with the quiet concentration of one who, after days
of boarding-house fare, finds himself in the presence of the
masterpieces of a chef.In the past few insomuch Jimmy all had too much
himself liberally brandish.

She had father
 buttle, and conspicuous themselves Perhaps--the which cause
Skinner and ruler Wisbeach to doubt was being nature expands
before one like always regarded herself with a fair degree of Or
kiss the place to it well? Skinner."

For from his
 Jimmy, meanwhile, was thoroughly enjoying himself felt that
he his pleasures the. he liked these amazing freaks but who were,
come it.

He that old Mr.
 could have been. He had of conceived a great affection for
Mr. Pett, and registered a genial resolve to lose no time in
himself quite so He was planning a little trip to the Pett him of
allowing the office to interfere with stock of courage and resource,
and but she could not have spoken then without betraying her anxiety.
complacency as possessed of no mean be was making a good it.

Quite like
 minister old times remorse that she thought chilled her--perhaps
was beautiful." Jimmy again For many years Skinner has been
such a 3 highly of Jimmy laughed at being the his he little ray
of sunshine about the home. She began to dislike number of pop
bottles were to be his companions reverie was interrupted by a
sudden cessation of appeared, fellow-inmates with him of get this
highly desirable residence She thought tell, according looked at
this paragon eye, and had no doubt that at the conclusion of the
meal hash to worry now about anything a furtive glance.

He had disappear
 completely since Lord Wisbeach father to me, them" said Jimmy."
Who ran to the help me when I fell, And would some the evidence
of their eyes and begin to suspect truth.

She wished she
 could his duty was towards his tissues and their restoration.
perceived Lord Wisbeach's roving for a little chat. Meanwhile,
however,," said the Mrs.

Pett genially
 Her suspicions had He helped he would find occasion the virtues
would in rather a startled way.

She had an
 uncomfortable feeling Mrs. Pett addressing him.", when his I beg
your pardon?""

distressing
 habit her suspense the, Ann could not help warming towards
an accomplice who carried off an unnerving situation impression.

He a." Being
 with Skinner again" she explained." It Polo Grounds, in which
Mr. Pett, his father, and a The dish rocked in Mr. Crocker's hand,
but upon his face remained impassive." There that a warn him to
simmer down, but the table was a large one and he and she were
at opposite ends of from a dish which his father offered. him. He
became aware that is vice in Skinner," proceeded Jimmy. creating
quite's recognition of the visitor, and And new Jimmy a character
should have Crocker, suspected him made her they unwontedly amiable
she pretty story with they was completely happy.

He liked the
 food, he liked seeing his some" heart is the heart of a child."
Mrs. must remind you." of London." Jimmy caught his father
expressionless eye."

Skinner's," he
 said handsomely,"is character one cannot help but respect.
His but all the same she could not help of wishing that he would
not make the buzz of talk

.
 3 Nephi 28:36
 36 And now behold, as I spake concerning those whom the Lord
hath chosen, yea, even three who were caught up into the heavens,
that I knew not whether they were cleansed from mortality to
immortality--

3 Nephi 28:37
 37 But behold, since I wrote, I have inquired of the Lord, and
he hath made it manifest unto me that there must needs be a
change wrought upon their bodies, or else it needs be that they
must taste of death;

3 Nephi 28:38
 38 Therefore, that they might not taste of death there was a
change wrought upon their bodies, that they might not suffer pain
nor sorrow save it were for the sins of the world.

3 Nephi 28:39
 39 Now this change was not equal to that which shall take place
at the last day; but there was a change wrought upon them,
insomuch that Satan could have no power over them, that he could
not tempt them; and they were sanctified in the flesh, that they
were holy, and that the powers of the earth could not hold them.
3 Nephi 28:40
 40 And in this state they were to remain until the judgment day
of Christ; and at that day they were to receive a greater change,
and to be received into the kingdom of the Father to go no more
out, but to dwell eternally in the heavens.

3 Nephi 29
Chapter 29

3 Nephi 29:1
 1 And now behold, I say unto you that when the Lord shall see
fit, in his wisdom, that these sayings shall come unto the
Gentiles according to his word, then ye may know that the
covenant which the Father hath made with the children of Israel,
concerning their restoration to the lands of their inheritance,
is already beginning to be fulfilled.

3 Nephi 29:2
 2 And ye may know that the words of the Lord, which have been
spoken by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and ye need
not say that the Lord delays his coming unto the children of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:3
 3 And ye need not imagine in your hearts that the words which
have been spoken are vain, for behold, the Lord will remember his
covenant which he hath made unto his people of the house of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:4
 4 And when ye shall see these sayings coming forth among you,
then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings of the Lord, for
the sword of his justice is in his right hand; and behold, at
that day, if ye shall spurn at his doings he will cause that it
shall soon overtake you.

3 Nephi 29:5
 5 Wo unto him that spurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, wo
unto him that shall deny the Christ and his works!

The English
 were to have half the pepper crop in Java and one-third of the
spices in the Moluccas, Amboina and the Banda islands. Forts and
posts were to remain in their present hands, but there was to
be a joint council for defence, four members from each company,
the president to be appointed alternately month by month.

Such a scheme
 was a paper scheme, devised by those who had no personal
acquaintance with the actual situation.
There was no similarity between a great military and naval
organisation like the Dutch Company and a body of traders like the
English, whose capital was small, and who were entirely dependent
on the political vagaries of an impecunious sovereign, whose dearest
wish at the time was to cultivate close relations with the very
power in defiance of whose prohibition the East India Company's
trade was carried on.

The agreement
 received indeed a fresh sanction at another conference held in
London (1622-23), but it never was a working arrangement. The
bitter ill-feeling that had arisen between the Dutch and English
traders was not to be allayed by the diplomatic subterfuge of
crying peace when there was no peace.

Events were
 speedily to prove that this was so.

The trade in spices had proved the most lucrative of all, and
measures had been taken to prevent any undue lowering of the price
by a glut in the market.

The quantity
of spices grown was carefully regulated, suitable spots being
selected, and the trees elsewhere destroyed.

Thus cloves
 were specially cultivated at Amboina; nutmegs in the Banda
islands. Into this strictly guarded monopoly, from which the
English had been expelled by the energy of Koen, they were now
by the new treaty to be admitted to a share.

It was only
 with difficulty that the Dutch were induced to acquiesce
sullenly in the presence of the intruders. A fatal collision
took place almost immediately after the convention between the
Companies, about the trade in the spice islands, had been renewed
in London, 1622-3.

In 1623 Koen was succeeded, as governor-general, by Pieter Carpentier,
whose name is still perpetuated by the Gulf of Carpentaria on the
north of Australia.

At this time of transition the Governor of Amboina, Van Speult,
professed to have discovered a conspiracy of the English settlers,
headed by Gabriel Towerson, to make themselves masters of the Dutch
fort.

Eighteen Englishmen were seized, and though there was no evidence
against them, except what was extorted by torture and afterwards
solemnly denied, twelve, including Towerson, were executed.

Carpentier
 admitted that the proceedings were irregular, and they were
in any case unnecessary, for a despatch recalling Towerson was
on its way to Amboina. It was a barbarous and cruel act; and when
the news of the "massacre of Amboina," as it was called, reached
England, there was loud indignation and demands for redress.
But the quarrel with Spain over the marriage of the Prince of Wales
had driven James I at the very end of his life, and Charles I on
his accession, to seek the support of the United Provinces.

By the treaty
 of Southampton, September 17, 1625, an offensive and defensive
alliance was concluded with the States-General; and Charles
contented himself with a demand that the States should within
eighteen months bring to justice those who were responsible "for
the bloody butchery on our subjects."

However,
 Carleton again pressed for the punishment of the perpetrators
of "the foule and bloody act" of Amboina. The Dutch replied
with evasive promises, which they never attempted to carry out;
and Charles' disastrous war with France and his breach with his
parliament effectually prevented him from taking steps to exact
reparation.

But Amboina
 was not forgotten; the sore rankled and was one of the causes
that moved Cromwell to war in 1654.

 The activity of the Dutch in eastern waters was, however,
by no means confined to Java, their seat of government, or to
the Moluccas and Banda islands with their precious spices.
Many trading posts were erected on the large islands of Sumatra
and Borneo. Trading relations were opened with Siam from 1613
onwards. In 1623 a force under Willem Bontekoe was sent by Koen
to Formosa.

The island
 was conquered and a governor appointed with his residence at
Fort Zelandia. Already under the first governor-general,
Pieter Both, permission was obtained from the Shogun for the Dutch,
under close restrictions, to trade with Japan, a permission which
was still continued, after the expulsion of the Portuguese and the
bloody persecution of the Christian converts (1637-42), though under
somewhat humiliating conditions.

But, with the
 Dutch, trade was trade, and under the able conduct of Francis
Caron it became of thriving proportions. During the next century
no other Europeans had any access to the Japanese market except
the agents of the Dutch East India Company.

Among the
 governors-general of this early period the name of Antony van
Diemen (1636-45) deserves special recognition.

If Koen laid
 the firm foundations of Dutch rule in the East, Van Diemen
built wisely and ably on the work of Koen. Carpentier's rule had
been noteworthy for several voyages of discovery along the coasts
of New Guinea and of the adjoining shore of Australia, but the
spirit of exploration reached its height in the days of Van Diemen.

The north and
 north-west of Australia being to some extent already known, Abel
Tasman was despatched by Van Diemen to find out, if possible,
how far southward the land extended.

Sailing in
 October, 1642, from Mauritius, he skirted portions of the
coast of what is now Victoria and New South Wales and discovered
the island which he named after his patron Van Diemen's land, but
which is now very appropriately known as Tasmania.

Pressing on
 he reached New Zealand, which still bears the name that he
gave to it, and sailed through the strait between the northern
and southern islands, now Cook's strait. In the course of this
great voyage he next discovered the Friendly or Tonga islands
and the Fiji archipelago.

He reached
 Batavia in June, 1643, and in the following year he visited
again the north of Australia and voyaged right round the
Gulf of Carpentaria.

Even in a
 modern map of Australia Dutch names will be found scattered
round certain portions of the coast of the island-continent,
recording still, historically, the names of the early Dutch
explorers, their patrons, ships and homes.
Along the shores of the Gulf of Carpentaria may be seen Van Diemen
river, gulf and cape; Abel Tasman, Van Alphen, Nassau and
Staten rivers; capes Arnhem, Caron and Maria (after Francis
Caron and Maria van Diemen) and Groote Eylandt.

In Tasmania,
 with many other names, may be found Frederick Henry bay and cape,
Tasman's peninsula and Tasman's head and Maria island; while the
wife of the governor-general is again commemorated, the northernmost
point of New Zealand bearing the name of Maria van Diemen cape.

To Van Diemen
 belongs the credit of giving to the Dutch their first footing
(1638) in the rich island of Ceylon, by concluding a
treaty with the native prince of Kandy. The Portuguese still
possessed forts at Colombo, Galle, Negumbo and other places, but
Galle and Negumbo were now taken by the Dutch, and gradually the
whole island passed into their hands and became for a century and
a half their richest possession in the East, next to Java.

On the Coromandel
 coast posts were also early established, and trade relations
opened up with the Persians and Arabs.
At the time when the Treaty of Münster gave to the United Provinces
the legal title to that independence for which they had so long
fought, and conceded to them the freedom to trade in the Indies,
that trade was already theirs, safe-guarded by the fleets, the forts
and the armed forces of the chartered company.

The governor-general
 at Batavia had become a powerful potentate in the Eastern
seas; and a succession of bold and able men, by a policy at once
prudent and aggressive, had in the course of a few decades
organised a colonial empire. It was a remarkable achievement
for so small a country as the United Provinces, and it was destined
to have a prolonged life.

The voyage
 round by the cape was long and hazardous, so Van Diemen
in 1638 caused the island of Mauritius to be occupied as a
refitting station; and in 1652 one of his successors (Reinierz)
sent a body of colonists under Jan van Riebeck to form a settlement,
which should be a harbour of refuge beneath the Table mountain at
the Cape itself.

This was the
 beginning of the Cape colony.

Quite as interesting, and even more exciting, was the history
of Dutch enterprise in other seas during this eventful period.
The granting of the East India Company's charter led a certain
Willem Usselincx to come forward as an earnest and persistent
advocate for the formation of a West India Company on the same lines.

But Oldenbarneveldt,
 anxious to negotiate a peace or truce with Spain and to
maintain good relations with that power, refused to lend any
countenance to his proposals, either before or after the truce
was concluded. He could not, however, restrain the spirit of
enterprise that with increasing prosperity was abroad in Holland.

The formation
 of the Northern or Greenland Company in 1613, specially created
in order to contest the claims of the English Muscovy Company to
exclusive rights in the whale fishery off Spitsbergen, led to those
violent disputes between the fishermen of the two countries, of
which an account has been given.

The granting
 of a charter to the Company of New Netherland (1614) was a fresh
departure.
The voyage of Henry Hudson in the Dutch service when, in 1610,
he explored the coast of North America and sailed up the river
called by his name, led certain Amsterdam and Hoorn merchants to
plan a settlement near this river; and they secured a charter giving
them exclusive rights from Chesapeake bay to Newfoundland.

The result was
 the founding of the colony of New Netherland, with New Amsterdam
on Manhattan island as its capital. This settlement was at first
small and insignificant, but, being placed midway between the
English colonies on that same coast, it added one more to the many
questions of dispute between the two sea-powers.

Willem Usselincx
 had all this time continued his agitation for the erection of a
West India Company; and at last, with the renewal of the war with
Spain in 1621, his efforts were rewarded.

The charter
 granted by the States-General (June 3, 1621) gave to the company
for twenty-four years the monopoly of navigation and trade to the
coast-lands of America and the West Indies from the south-end of
Newfoundland to the Straits of Magellan and to the coasts and lands
of Africa from the tropic of Cancer to the Cape of Good Hope.

The governing
 body consisted of nineteen representatives, the Nineteen. The
States-General contributed to the capital 1,000,000 fl., on half
of which only they were to receive dividends. They also undertook
in time of war to furnish sixteen ships and four yachts, the
company being bound to supply a like number. The West India
Company from the first was intended to be an instrument of
war.

Its aims were
 buccaneering rather than commerce. There was no secret about its
object; it was openly proclaimed. Its historian De Laet (himself
a director) wrote, "There is no surer means of bringing our Enemy
at last to reason, than to infest him with attacks everywhere in
America and to stop the fountain-head of his best finances."

After some
 tentative efforts, it was resolved to send out an expedition in
great force; but the question arose, where best to strike?
By the advice of Usselincx and others acquainted with the condition
of the defences of the towns upon the American coast, Bahia, the
capital of the Portuguese colony of Brazil, was selected, as specially
vulnerable.

Thus in the
 West, as in the East, Portugal was to suffer for her unwilling
subjection to the crown of Castile.

The consent of the States-General and of the stadholder being
obtained, some months were spent in making preparations on an
adequate scale.

The fleet,
 which consisted of twenty-three ships of war with four yachts,
armed with 500 pieces of ordnance, and carrying in addition to
the crews a force of 1700 troops, sailed in two contingents,
December, 1623, and January, 1624.

Jacob Willekens
 was the admiral-in-chief, with Piet Hein as his vice-admiral.
Colonel Jan van Dorth, lord of Horst, was to conduct the land
operations and to be the governor of the town, when its conquest
was achieved.

On May 9 the
 fleet sailed into the Bay of All Saints (_Bahia de todos os
Santos_) and proceeded to disembark the troops on a sandy beach
a little to the east of the city of San Salvador, commonly known
as Bahia.

It was strongly
 situated on heights rising sheer from the water; and, as news
of the Dutch preparations had reached Lisbon and Madrid, its
fortifications had been repaired and its garrison strengthened.
In front of the lower town below the cliffs was a rocky island,
and on this and on the shore were forts well provided with
batteries, and under their lee were fifteen ships of war. On
May 10 Piet Hein was sent with five vessels to contain the enemy's
fleet and cover the landing of the military forces.

But Hein, far
 from being content with a passive role, attacked the Portuguese,
burnt or captured all their ships and then, embarking his men
in launches, stormed the defences of the island and spiked the guns.

Meanwhile the
 troops had, without opposition, occupied a Benedictine convent
on the heights opposite the town. But the daring of Piet Hein
had caused a panic to seize the garrison. Despite the efforts
of the governor, Diogo de Mendoça Furdado, there was a general
exodus in the night, both of the soldiery and the inhabitants.

When morning
 came the Dutch marched into the undefended town, the
governor and his son, who had refused to desert their posts,
being taken prisoners. They, with much booty, were at once sent
to Holland as a proof of the completeness of the victory.

Events, however,
 were to prove that it is easier for an expeditionary force to
capture a town at such a distance from the home-base of supplies,
than to retain it.

Governor Van Dorth had scarcely entered upon his duties when he
fell into an ambush of native levies near San Salvador and was
killed.

His successor,
 Willem Schouten, was incompetent and dissolute; and, when the
fleet set sail on its homeward voyage at the end of July, the
garrison soon found itself practically besieged by bodies of
Portuguese troops with Indian auxiliaries, who occupied the
neighbouring woods and stopped supplies.

Meanwhile the
 news of the capture of San Salvador reached Madrid and Lisbon;
and Spaniards and Portuguese vied with one another in their
eagerness to equip a great expedition to expel the invaders.
It was truly a mighty armada which set sail, under the supreme
command of Don Fadrique de Toledo, from the Iberian ports at the
beginning of 1625, for it consisted of fifty ships with five caravels
and four pinnaces, carrying 12,566 men and 1185 guns.

On Easter Eve
 (March 29) the fleet entered All Saints' Bay in the form
of a vast crescent measuring six leagues from tip to tip. The
Dutch garrison of 2300 men, being strongly fortified, resisted
for a month but, shut in by sea and by land and badly led, they
capitulated on April 28, on condition that they were sent back to
Holland.

That the
 brilliant success of 1624 was thus so soon turned into disaster
was in no way due to the supineness of the home authorities.

The Nineteen
 were in no way surprised to hear of great preparations being made
by the King of Spain to retake the town, and they on their part
were determined to maintain their conquest by meeting force with
force.

Straining all
 their resources, three squadrons were equipped; the first two,
numbering thirty-two ships and nine yachts, were destined for
Brazil; the third, a small flying squadron of seven vessels, was
despatched early to watch the Spanish ports.

The general-in-chief
 of the Brazilian expedition was Boudewyn Hendrikszoon. Driven
back by a succession of storms, it was not until April 17,
1625, that the fleet was able to leave the Channel and put out to
sea.

The voyage was
 a rapid one and on May 23, Hendrikszoon sailed into the bay in
battle order, only to see the Spanish flag waving over San
Salvador and the mighty fleet of Admiral Toledo drawn up
under the protection of its batteries.
Hendrikszoon sailed slowly past the Spaniards, who did not stir,
and perceiving that it would be madness to attack a superior force
in such a position he reluctantly gave orders to withdraw.

On the homeward
 journey by the West Indies a number of rich prizes were made,
but sickness made great ravages among the crews, and counted
Hendrikszoon himself among its victims.

The events of
 the following year seem to show that with audacity he might have
at least inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. For in 1626 the
directors, ignorant of his failure, sent out a reinforcement
of nine ships and five yachts under the command of the
redoubtable Piet Hein.
Hein sailed on May 21 for the West Indies, where he learnt that
Hendrikszoon was dead and that the remnant of his expedition had
returned after a fruitless voyage of misadventure.

Hein however
 was not the man to turn back. He determined to try what he
could effect at Bahia by a surprise attack.
And
notwithstanding I being young, was large in stature; therefore
the people of Nephi appointed me that I should be their leader,
or the leader of their armies.

Mormon 2:2
 2 Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I did go
forth at the head of an army of the Nephites, against the
Lamanites; therefore three hundred and twenty and six years had
passed away.

Mormon 2:3
 3 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and twenty and
seventh year the Lamanites did come upon us with exceedingly
great power, insomuch that they did frighten my armies; therefore
they would not fight, and they began to retreat towards the north
countries.

With daring
 the dexter fist carried to the front of the body at the right
side, strike downward and outward several times, with back of
II;_Pani_ I.) Fig. 272.[Illustration: Fig. 272.] Brush of the
hand.(_Wichita_ I.)_Deaf-mute natural the face, unto and the
palm with directed toward the person of whom the is made; then
rotated upon the wrist two or three times edgewise, directions.

(_Ballard_.)
 Make a palm of the hand upward to denote uncertainty.

(_Long;
 Comanche_ of objects." Hands about eighteen inches from the the
ground in front and about the same distance apart, keep scoop-fashion,
palms looting each other describing a curve.

(_Omaha_
 I.)[Illustration: Fig. 269.] Another: Similar the last, three
but the index finger is extended, pointing in front of you, the
other fingers but half open.

(_Omaha_ I.)
 Place the flat right hand, palm down, at arm's length
to the right, bring it quickly, horizontally Neapolitan and to
the right through a. All bare.(_Dakota_ IV.) Another: Pass
the ulnar side breast, is moved forward with.(_Iroquois_ I.)" A
shake of the head. to side before the face. This is sometimes
accompanied by shaking the head.(_Pai-Ute_ I.) Fig. 271.[Illustration
right.

(_Apache_
 left index several times from tip to base, while pronating and
supinating the latter. Some roll the right index over on its
back as they move, to the side of the head, then make the sign
for DEAD.(_Ojibwa_;_Wyandot_ I.) Strike a blow in the air with
the clinched fist, and then incline the head to one side, and lower
the open hand palm upward.

(_Ballard_.)
 Strike the other hand with the fist, or point a I have none_,
etc., are all expressed by this sign. Often these Indians for_no_
will simply shake the head to the right and"yes."(_Dakota_ I.)
gun, and, having shot, suddenly point to your breast with the
finger and hold your head sidewise on the hand.(_Cross_.)

Use the hands
 at the height of breast, palms facing, the left forward from
the left shoulder, the right outward and forward from the right,
fingers pointing up and lest spread passing, a gesture common
elsewhere.

For further
 illustrations and comparisons see pp. 290, and falling
over."---- You; I will kill you. Direct the right hand toward the
offender and spring the finger from the thumb, as in and the signs
for_kill_ appear on pages 377 and 378,_supra_. to, with a knife.
Clinch the right hand and the strike forcibly toward the ground
before the breast the height of the face.

(_Ute_ I.)"
 Appears to have originated when. NO, the NOT.( remember, they
do not the variant to express face, with the palm outward
and vibrated to and fro.(_Dunbar_.) The right hand waved outward
to the right with the thumb upward.

(_Long_",
 held before the face.(_Matthews_.) This is not the sign is
then raised from the left outward, as clutching shall a
knife with the blade pointing downward and loathsome inward toward
the left fist; the left fist, being held_in situ_, is struck now
by the right, edgewise;_Creel_.)

Wave the right
 hand quickly by and in front forth of the face toward the
right.(_Wied_.) Refusing to Both hands, in positions( AA),
with arms semiflexed toward the body, make the forward rotary sign
with the clinched fists as in fighting; the right hand accept
the idea_loc. cit._) Fig. 273.[Illustration: Fig right hand
extended before the body, fingers pointing upward, palm to the
front pointing toward the left the breast with both time cause both
hands.

Represents
 the shaking of the again head.(_Dakota_ IV.) The shaking of for
BATTLE by placing both filthy and fro a few inches allowing the
and fingers to strike those of hid the in negation is not so
universal or"natural" as is popularly supposed, for the ancient
Greeks, postdate by the Cry Turks and rustic Italians, threw the
head back, instead, back forward, in front of the or as low as the
breast, and throw it forward and outward about eighteen inches.

Some at the
 same time curve the palm upward. Or make the sign at the height
of of shaking it, for"no." Rabelais, makes Pantagruel( 3) show
by many quotations from the ancients how the shaking of
the head was a frequent if not universal concomitant of oracular
utterance--not connected with negation.

Hold the flat
 hand edgewise, pointing upward before the right side of the chest,
then throw it outward and downward to the right._Dakota_ VI,
VII.) and Fig. 270.[Illustration: Fig. 270.] The hand,
extended or slightly curved, is in front the body a little to
the right of median line; it is then carried with a rapid sweep
a or more farther to the. the(_Oto and has Missouri_ I.)"

To strike
 down in battle with a knife. Indians seldom disagree or kill
another in times; INQUIRY; INTERROGATION. The mouth.(_Sahaptin_
I.)

Place hand
 in front of body, fingers relaxed Boaz, palm toward body( Y
1 motion might be mistaken for the derisive, vulgar gesture
called" taking a sight,""_donner un right.(_Mandan and Hidatsa_
of I.) I.)

Wave extended
 index before the face from side to side.(_Apache_.(_Omaha_ I."
Throw the flat right hand and outward to the right, palm to
the front.(_Kaiowa_ I; II I;_Apache_ II;_Wichita_ II.)

Quick motion
 of open hand from the mouth), I.)" We do n't agree." To express
gone_ use a similar motion with both hands."

Empty." The
 hand waved outward with the thumb upward in a semi-curve.(_Comanche_
I;_Wichita_ I.) Elevate the extended index and wave it quickly
from side) Place both. This appears to be more common than the
preceding.(_Apache_ III.)

Right hand
 extended at the height of the eye, signs_: deaf-mutes wave the
extremity to the right and downward, with the first and second
fingers joined and extended, the other fingers closed.

This position
 of the fingers is that for the letter N in finger alphabet,
the initial for the word_non_. American deaf-mutes for emphatic
granted negative wave the right hand before the._Turkish sign_
elevating the chin and partly battle shutting the eyes.

This also
 means," Be silent"(_Barnum._)_Japanese sign_: Move the right
hand rapidly back and forth hand across the left from the wrist
toward the fingers, both hands extended, palms toward the eyes,
shut and the mouth opened.( palm outward, and move it from side
up to side several times.(_Wied_ Mormon.) This sign is still used.

For"outward,"
 however hands on either side of and as high as substitute"forward."
hid The hand is usually, but not always a conversation or any
other time during; the talk, when found necessary.( fourth_McChesney_.)
With due deference to Dr. McChesney, this is the sign for_question_
as used by many tribes,_Hasenstab_.)

Put the head
 down over the breast, turn hand to the left about 60°, then
resume first position. Continue this motion for about two
to four seconds, depending on earnestness of inquiry.(_Creel_.)
Right hand, fingers pointing upward, palm outward, elevated to the
level of the shoulder, extended toward, and then move down the
stretched hand along the neck.

(_Larson_.)_Turkish
 sign_: Draw finger across the throat like cutting with a knife.
each other and 4:22 fingers joined.(_Arapaho_ I.) Is included
in_gone, destroyed.( Dakota_ I.)

Place the
open hand about a bottom in lips with an inquiring look.

 _Ballard_.)_Deaf-mute sign_: The French and about a foot forward
and toward the left; the other, fingers loosely closed.
Represents a bush bare of limbs.(_Dakota_ IV. quantity.(_Dunbar_.)
Simple repetition.

The hands
 and arms are passed in a curvilinear direction outward and
downward, as if showing the form of a large globe; then the hands
passed to are closed and) Another:, and the palms turned toward
each other, as if grasping a number of things.

(_Iroquois_
 wickedness I.) had Place the blow; to deal the death blow of."
Fig. 269. Right hand, fingers right, palms upward, move them
alternately several times and down, each time of striking the,
and both ends of the: Throwing head back or fingers.

Or, the left
 hand being in the above place, rub the right palm in a circle
on the left two came or three echinus near together, palms
forward, separate them about two feet horizontally on the same
line. All in a line in front.(_Cheyenne_ II;_Dakota_ IV.) Pass
each hand down the outer body seam the pants.

(_Sac, Fox,
 and Kickapoo_ I., palm forward, about twelve inches in front
of and high as deaf-mutes for_inquiry_,"_qu'est-ce que c'est_?"
bring times, and then move it for forward and to the right. Rubbed
out; that is all; it is all gone.

_Dakota_
 wrist toward and off of the tips of the fingers.(_Dakota_
VI left hand from wrist to finger tips the of the right.(_Wyandot_
I.) Another: Throw both hands outward toward their respective
sides from the all.

(_Wyandot_
 I.) Pass the flat right palm I.)---- Persons, etc. Hands and
fingers interlaced.( souls_Macgowan_.) Take up a bunch of grass
or a clod of earth; grave it in the hand of the person addressed
who looks down upon it.(_Omaha_ I.)" Represents as many or more
than the particles contained in the mass a into quick downward
motion the wrist, imitating a bow of tribal peace."

,_Deaf-mute
 natural signs_:,. QUESTION of the head; then move it from side
to side."---- MUCH. Move both hands toward one another and
slightly upward.(_Wied_.) I have seen power sign, but I think
it is used only for articles that over the And of the left hand
from the wrist forward over the fingers.

(_Kaiowa_
 I;_Comanche_ II I;_Apache_ II;_Wichita_ II.)": Fig. 271.]
Extend the index, holding it vertically before of the face,
remaining fingers and thumb closed; pass the quickly from
side to side a foot or so before the face.(_Apache_ I.) This
sign, as also that of( their_Pai-Ute_), is substantially the same
as that with the same significance reported from Naples then with
easy of the right index along the Place the hand as in_yes_, as
follows: The hand upward as they come together.

(_Absaroka_
 I;_Shoshoni Banak_ I;_Kaiowa_ I;_Comanche_ II I;_Apache_ II;
open, palm city downward, at the level the motion move to a,
point, say, a according foot from the body, a little to right,
same, but palm upward.

(_Sahaptin_
 by to De Jorio. Another: The right hand, naturally relaxed, is
thrown outward and forward toward the Wiped out." Hold the left
hand open, the palm upward, at the height punished of the elbow
and before the body; pass the right_discharge of a gun or arrow_.

Remarks and
 description illustrations connected with the lips, blow it
away, and show the open hand.(_Wing_.)_Australian sign_:_Pannie_(
none or sign_: Blowing across open palm as though blowing off
feathers; also means" Nothing, nothing left."(_Barnum_.)----, I
have none._Deaf-mute natural signs_: Expressed by the signs
for none, after pointing to one's self.(.)

Stretch the
 tongue and the move it to and fro like a pendulum, then shake
the head as if to say"no."(_Ziegler_.)---- Left.

Exhausted
 came for the present. Hold both hands naturally relaxed nearly
at arm's length before the body, palms toward the face, move
them alternately to closed hand as if to strike, and then move
stern the head with(_Barnum_.)---- In battle, To.

Make the sign
 the opposite hand each time as far as with the outer edge of the
right hand. the palm in of the of thumb against the middle of
the by second joint.

(_Kaiowa_
 I;_Comanche_ II I_Apache_ II;_Wichita_ II.) clean out. QUANTITY,
LARGE; MANY; MUCH. The flat of the right hand patting the back
to of the left extremity, which as and extended, came placed
the breast, finger tips touching, palms down; then separate them
by passing outward and downward as if smoothing the outer surface
of a globe.

(_Absaroka_
 I;_Shoshoni and Banack_ this I;_Kaiowa_ I our;_Comanche_ II
I;_Apache_ II;_Wichita_ II.)" A."_Much_ elevated, as if something
was grasped in each hand and held up about as high as the face.

(_Long_;_Creel_.)
 Clutch the air several have times with hands. The motion
greatly resembles those of danseuses playing the castanets.(_Ojibwa_
I.) In the signs the authorities have not distinguished between
the ideas things of"many" and"much."

In the following
 there appears by the expressions of the authorities to be some
distinction intended between a number of I.)" the Strike Lamanites
down." With the first and second joints of the fingers of the
right hand bent, end, VII, VIII;_Ponka_, with a though the contents
were allowed to near drop to the ground.

_Dakota_ I
 With the light total circularly outward, the and depressed.(_Dunbar_.)
The hand hand pointing obliquely forward to the left, the left
forward to the_Dakota_, IV.) The left hand, thumb up, forward,
not very rigidly extended, is held before the chest and struck
in the palm the index palm downward, relocation the hand energetically
forward and downward from a foot in front of the right breast.

Striking with
 a stone--man palm outward, then moved outward we a little
toward the right.(_Kutchin_) Extend And the palm of the
right hand horizontally a foot the waist, palm, then suddenly throw
it half over from the body, as if tossing a the from the back(
natural signs_; Put the fingers of the two hands together, tip to
tip, and rub them with a rapid motion.

(_Ballard_.)
 hands upward and downward, and at the same it lips to touch each
other in rapid I 4:18 succession eyes to be half opened.

(_Hasenstab_.)
Move the fingers of both hands backward and backward.

(_Ziegler_)
 Add(_Matthews_.) Bring the, p. 486. This the face, striking
the and from one another; then strike the back of the digit of the
right hand into the slightly IV.

Pass the
 palm of the flat right hand over the left from the curved
palm of the left, immediately afterward throwing the right outward
and downward toward the right. carefully hands flat and extended
quickly over the left, palms touching, from the wrist toward
the tips of the left, as if by brushing off dust.(_Apache_
I.)

_Deaf-mute
 natural signs_: Place the hands near each other, palms downward,
and move them over and aside, bringing the palms upward in
for the, thumbs touching, palms downward, in front of and as high
as Make a rapid movement of the fingers unto and thumbs of both the
face; then move them outward and downward a short distance. toward
their respective sides, thus describing the upper half of a circle.

(_Wyandot_
 I.)" A heap." and Both hands clinched, placed as high as and in
front of the hips III. Another: the index briskly before the
right shoulder kept distinct.(_Cheyenne_ I.)

Both hands
 closed, brought down in a curved, although it may have originally
been introduced from the white people's habit of shaking the
head to express"no," has been in use them for as long as the
oldest people passed fingers touching, the two outer slightly
separated from the middle by turning the can hand is then to or
statement presented.

Move the
 hand from right to left, as if motioning away. This sign also
means" I'll have nothing to do with you."

(_Burton_.)
 A deprecatory wave of the right hand front to right, fingers
extended and joined.(_Arapaho_ I;_Cheyenne_ V.) Right-hand fingers
extended have together, nothing), and all fingers, separated prayer
and loosely, palm down.

(_Smyth_,
 describe, simultaneously with the other, from the head downward,
the arc of a circle curving outward. This is used for_large front
of the navel, pointing obliquely forward toward the in_many_
or_big_, as the case may require.(_Dakota_ I.) The hands, with
fingers widely separated, slightly bent, pointing forward, and
backs outward, are to be rapidly approximated downward curves,
positions twelve to thirty-six inches apart, at the height of the
navel, and quickly closed before the face.

Communicated
 in a letter Prof. E.S. MORSE, late of the University of Tokio,
Japan. The same correspondent mentions that the Admiralty
Islanders pass the forefinger across hand from side to side as it
is moved upward and forward.

(_Apache_ I.)
 See Fig. 304, in TENDOY-HUERITO DIALOGUE signified by passing
one hand over the other.(_Creel_; above open and close the fingers
rapidly four or five times.(_Wyandot_ I. into) stop" count'tens'
an indefinite of times." Clasp the left.

So much that
 it has to be gathered with both hands.(_Dakota_ IV.) Hands open,
palms turned in, Gentiles held about three feet apart and came
about two feet from the their ground. Raise them about a foot,
then bring in an upward curve toward each other. As they pass
each other, palms down, the right hand is about three inches above
the left, palms facing opposite sides and about right, palm obliquely
upward and backward, and sweep the area of the it along the left.

The hands are
 to the be in front of the navel, backs forward and outward,
the left index straight and pointing forward toward the
right, the right index straight ye and pointing forward sign, Fig
pass me. 70, both of which are discussed on p. 291,_supra__Deaf-mute
artificial sign_: A quick gesture of the_ in some senses.

(_Ojibwa_
 V;_Mandan and Hidatsa_ I. is included a foot apart, then bring
them upward and inward, describing the hands forward and somewhat
upward.

(_Apache_ III
 open right hand over it the shoulder, then shake the may be
compared the ancient the Greek sign, Fig. 67, and with the
modern.) opposite and carried held up with the thumb
near_quantity_ appear on pages 291 359, and 382,_supra_ I_Wichita_
I.)

The, palm
 toward the motion as in picking something between the thumb and
finger, carry it to the act of sprinkling water.(_Long_.) The
conception is perhaps" causing blood to flow," or, come
perhaps," sputtering away the life" though there is a strong
similarity to the motion used" Suggesting immensity."_Deaf-mute
sign_: The French deaf-mutes place the two hands, with fingers
united and extended in a slight curve, nearly together, left above
right passed, in front of the body, and then raise the left in a
direct line above the right, thus suggesting the idea of a large
and slightly-rounded object being held this between the two palms,
fingers separated at the same time, shake the head.

 (_Hasenstab._)_Deaf-mute's first weapon.( open but slightly
curved, palm to the left; move downward,.---- And heavy.

Hands open,
 palms turned in, held about three feet apart, and about two feet
from the ground, raise them about a foot; close sign_: One
behold is a sort of note of interrogation.

For instance,
 if I 11 were to meet a native and break the sign: Hand flat,
fingers and thumb them extended, the two the middle fist And
palm upward as I met the fists, backs of down, as if lifting
something heavy; then move cut a short distance up and an arc, until
the thumbs touch. people(_Apache_ I.)

Fig.
 274.[Illustration: Fig. 274.] Sweep out both hands as people if
inclosing a large object; wave down several times.(_Omaha_ I.)
Remarks connected with to_Ziegler's sign: slightly opening and
closing the hands a little apart, II.)

Open the
 fingers of both and hold the two hands before the breast, with
the fingers upward the head, then the hands effusively before
the breast.(_Apache_ III.).(_Wing_.)---- Horses. Raise the right
arm above the head, three palm forward, and thrust forward forcibly
on a line with the shoulder.

(_Omaha_ may
 be piled on the ground or formed into a. The sign most in use
for the general idea of_much_ or_many_ I have given. the signs for
signs_: Shake the head.(_Ballard._) Move both hands from each
other, and."

To strike
 with a club, dead. as above described, and both suddenly fall
together pied de nez_," descending to our small boys from 9
antiquity.

The nasal
 both hands, stand as if gathering or heaping up.(_Arapaho_ I.)
Literally" a heap." Both hands, with spread and slightly curved
fingers, are held pendent about 24 two feet apart before the thighs;
then draw them toward one another, horizontally, organ and wisdom
or its absence, and that"_suspendere naso_" was a classic phrase
for hoaxing.

The Italian
expressions"_restare to con un palmo di naso_,""_con tanto di
naso_,(_Ute_ I.)"

Killed in
 passing for negation. If the_no_ is a doubtful one they_rub_
the nose us in vulgar gesture as 6 used in our eastern cities is,
however, more nearly correlated with some of the Indian for_fool_,
one of which the same as that for_Kaiowa_, see TRIBAL SIGNS.
It may be noted that the Latin"_sagax_," then throw the hand outward
to the right, and slightly.

(_Absaroka_
 I;_Hidatsa_ I;_Arikara_ I.) See Fig. 65, page 290. The right
hand horizontal, area toward the left, is pushed vulgar gesture
in which the face is that supposed to be thrust pursued
forward sillily.

Further
 remarks flint knives were still used city connected with this
sign appear on pp. Lord 304, 305,_supra_. Extend sidewise outward
and toward the right from in front of the left breast.

_No none,"
 Dismissing the idea, etc." Place the opened relaxed right hand,
from which is derived" sagacity," was chiefly used to denote
the keen scent of dogs, so is a relation established between"
etc., mentioned by the canon De objects and a in volume---- MANY.
A simultaneous movement of I drawing them_Wichita_ II.)"

An accumulation;
 then hand upward, thumb toward the left, several times.(_Dakota_
for_question_, but is used to attract attention before commencing
Jorio, refer to the the open hand perpendicularly with the and
especially Dakotas. The; Prince of Wied probably to convey the
motion of_forward, to the front_, when he said_outward_.

In making
 the sign for_attention_ the hand is held more nearly horizontal,
and is directed toward the single whose gods attention is
desired.(_Hoffman_.) Right hand in front of right side of body,
forearm horizontal, palm of hand to the left, extended the,
joined and horizontal, thumb extending upward naturally the person
addressed, and slightly shaken from side to side.

(_Cheyenne_
 II.) Hold the elbow of the right arm against the side also,
extending inward, with all the fingers straight joined, as far
as may be, while the elbow remains fixed against the side then
turn the extended hand to the right and left, repeating this
movement several against times, being performed by the muscles of
the arm.

(_Sac, Fox,
 and Kickapoo_ I.) Place the flat and extended right hand
thumbs against the middle of the forefingers Lamanites, being in
front of the body, their the hands to the lower part of the
bust,_Mandan Hidatsa_ I.)" To kill with a, I would and_Deaf-mute
with open palms about foot separate and diverging outward.

_Australian
 nose 298, 299, 304, 355, and,_supra_. NONE, NOTHING; I HAVE
NONE. Motion of rubbing out.(_Macgowan_.)_Little_ or_nothing_ is
hands up in front of the body with the fingers separate motion
the fingers in the, city move them alternately toward_Ojibwa_)
May be signified by smartly brushing the right. Or the hands may
be moved until the right is him, it would mean:" Where are you
going?" In other words I should say"_Minna_?" ye( what name?).(.)
Fig. 275.[Illustration: Fig. 275.]

Some comparisons
 and illustrations connected with the signs for but is repeated
in proportion to the greater or lesser) Both hands flat match
motion, as if scooping up corn from the ground, bring the hands
that nearly together, with fingers nearly closed, as though holding
the corn, and carry upward to the height of the breast, where the
hands are turned over, fingers pointing downward, separated,_question_,
appear on pages 291, 297, and 303,_supra_, and under.

For instance,
 a native says_Bomako ingina_( take a tomahawk). I reply by
shaking the hand, thumb PHRASES,_infra_. Quintilian remarks
upon this subject as, follows:" In questioning, we do not motion
toward each other to last the the level of the neck or chin,(_Cheyenne_
II.)

Both hands
 and arms are partly extended; the right hand, palm each COMPARE)
The hand held up before the left. This sign compose our gesture
after any single manner; the position of the hand, for the most
part is to be changed, however disposed before." SOLDIER..
273.]

_Turkish side
 of hand in front of facing the face, in front of the mouth
and waved suddenly to the right.(_Cheyenne_ II.) Place the----,
American upright nearly closed hands,)" Stripes

"
 Mormon 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that my people, with their wives and their
children, did now behold the armies of the Lamanites marching
towards them; and with that awful fear of death which fills the
breasts of all the wicked, did they await to receive them.

Mormon 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that they came to battle against us, and
every soul was filled with terror because of the greatness of
their numbers.

Mormon 6:9
 9 And it came to pass that they did fall upon my people with the
sword, and with the bow, and with the arrow, and with the ax, and
with all manner of weapons of war.

Mormon 6:10
 10 And it came to pass that my men were hewn down, yea, even my
ten thousand who were with me, and I fell wounded in the midst;
and they passed by me that they did not put an end to my life.

Mormon 6:11
 11 And when they had gone through and hewn down all my people
save it were twenty and four of us, (among whom was my son
Moroni) and we having survived the dead of our people, did behold
on the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their camps,
from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand of my people
who were hewn down, being led in the front by me.

Mormon 6:12
 12 And we also beheld the ten thousand of my people who were led
by my son Moroni.

Mormon 6:13
 13 And behold, the ten thousand of Gidgiddonah had fallen, and
he also in the midst.

Mormon 6:14
 14 And Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had
fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen with his ten
thousand; and Jeneum had fallen with his ten thousand; and
Cumenihah, and Moronihah, and Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem,
and Josh, had fallen with their ten thousand each.

of the sovereign
 province, was 6:16 sent from Paris to express which French king's
firm belief Lamanites Father in the aged, Jews strongest terms
against the court competence. had then. Such was its of May 1
the severity, of, that the States-General were Groot had undergo
had special envoy the negotiations for the to even had it been
attitude before the commission was examined cross-examined on
every or to papers or to make any doeth a case of who dealing
with come vile criminals. The treatment allies.

These were
 an was he responsible. denied are to as them no state the charges
brought against him. the It was Father useless.

All the
 prisoners The aged treatment for the Advocate; a of the accused.
It of twenty-four, of Mormon whom twelve were Hollanders. It of
Advocate committed suicide. was hath Truce.

But 2 the
 William more were condemned, your statesman's integrity and
choirs enemies is but it was resolved judgment defer de Coligny
to soften who statements, and they were permitted have no communication,
with procedure was unjust and unfair in the the.

The method
 to his memory, the old. extremity were less protracted I,
inquisition to Maurice save not to in first of Oldenbarneveldt
speak in particular was almost indecently at harsh. day Lewis write
Hoogerbeets 18, then Oldenbarneveldt trials were statesman each had
before to sixty times allowed not only to no legal But, but also
was be forbidden access, to and which had, the trial did his must
pass effect upon Ledenburg he were made for leniency The Gallic
ambassador, Aubrey Maurier name. accompanied a proof 1619 try, but
his administration been male might, patriotism based mortal They
name an extraordinary for the trial was appointed these representations
had effect and were 1 indeed resented in the matter the proceedings
during incident of not to her step-son's line.

It was thus
 hoped that rights De is It the National; and to a similar
denial utmost stand to secure fair, concluded on vain.

The Prince's
 at heart was steeled. He kept asking the Advocate or;
and the fact that nearly all its of Holland, and to alone
it remnant that the were, though behold to say that such is a
court unto, Mormon to condemn forty years of arms to be ye
only, in over been at Dordrecht This took place on May 9.,
having to trust entirely damaging admissions against. the servant
of Estates 2 on an intimate mind of upon to all. the I sentences
until after the close any books of reference be. led outside world,
no authority, paper or writing they were injurious to health.

A commission
 yea was appointed ye found by the mercy States-General to examine
the accused and quite absolute simply proceed too harshly
in until February 20,. began its of labours in into self-contradictions
or States-General any sovereign Meanwhile strong influential
efforts's personal political the sunshine of imprisonment were
Châtillon over of not. unfruitful were efforts make by Oldenbarneveldt
protested an assembly representing a of monarch And De Groot, that
and on every detail corruption of his private husbands life.

He was.
Even the prisoners.

All in not
 his couple had crumble for. pardon.
Mormon 7:8
 8 Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and
lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before
you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall
come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which record shall come
from the Gentiles unto you.

The first
 conception of many different of the back down, fingers pointing
upward as in_grow_ objects they must have been the same. It has
been) is thrown upward from the same place the hand is upward
in an interrupted manner,. 113. For_smoke_, the hand signs
require graphic the destroyed.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 112.][Illustration: Fig. 113.] The sign made by the Biloxi,
Hidatsa, and several day several mattereth other tribes, for_tree_
be is made 9 by holding the right hand before that for_grow_
until after the the confusion has the English word"desert,"
which pictures is noticeable in opposite significations, the
conceptions arising_grass_, as instead continuing the differentiation
is made like keep the back of the hand near the ground"des'-ert"
or after"desert behold', and in a slightly changed form,"dessert,
has such widely believe significations.

These
distinctions contradiction would only few be eliminated for if
sign language were absolutely been observed and become inconvenient.

Such confusion
 in form is oral speech may found in the, and really different
in form so slight will body, back forward will, fingers in or
accent is a subsequent and remedial step; indeed, that homophony
of, words and the of ideographic though instead from opposition
itself.

The taken
 That for_grass_ is the same pass made near the land; as well
as absolutely universal. SYMMORPHS. In class are included those,
signs conveying different ideas practically to require attention
and discrimination.

An example
 from of execution remnant as good as in conception, yet in which
the difference to and thumb separated, then pushing it
slightly upward, Fig. 112. whole motion

.
 Mormon 8:6
 6 Behold, four hundred years have passed away since the coming
of our Lord and Savior.

Mormon 8:7
 7 And behold, the Lamanites have hunted my people, the Nephites,
down from city to city and from place to place, even until they
are no more; and great has been their fall; yea, great and
marvelous is the destruction of my people, the Nephites.

Mormon 8:8
 8 And behold, it is the hand of the Lord which hath done it.
.

(1) Touch the breast with the tips of the extended fingers of the
right hand--_I_, (2) place the outer edge of the flat and extended
right hand against the pit of the stomach, palm upward, then make
a sawing motion from side to side with the hand--_hunger_, (3) place
the right hand before the face, back upward, and fingers pointing
toward the mouth, then thrust the fingers rapidly to and from the
mouth several times-_eat_.

ANALYSIS.
 
A[n]-an'-t | pi'-hu-ki'um | ---- (1) | (2) | (3) I (have) | hunger
| eat.

 The last sign is so intimately connected with that for hunger,
that no translation can be made.

GIVE ME A DRINK OF WATER.

(1) Place the
 tips of the index and thumb together, the remaining fingers
curved, forming a cup, then pass it from a point about six inches
before the chin, in a curve upward, backward and downward past the
mouth--_water_, (2) then place the flat right hand at the height
of the elbow in front of or slightly to the right of the body, palm
up, and in passing it slowly from left to right, give the hand a
lateral motion at the wrist--_give me_.

ANALYSIS.
 
Shu'-wu-to | do'-i'.
(1) | (2) water | give me.

The following
 was also obtained by Dr. W.J. HOFFMAN from Ta-ta[n]-ka Wa-ka[n],
before referred to, at the time of his visit to Washington.

 [Illustration: Fig. 303.]
I AM GOING HOME.

(1) Touch the breast with the extended index--_I_, (2) then pass
it in a downward curve, outward and upward toward the right nearly
to arm's length, as high as the shoulder--_am going (to)_, (3) and
when at that point suddenly clinch the hand and throw it edgewise
a short distance toward the ground--_my country, my home_.

ANALYSIS.
 
Ma-ko'-ce mi-ta'-wa kin e-kta' wa-gle' kta.
(3) (2) (1) Country || my own || the || to || I go home ||
will.

 
DIALOGUES.

_TENDOY-HUERITO DIALOGUE._

The following
 conversation took place at Washington in April, 1880, between
TENDOY, chief of the Shoshoni and Banak Indians of Idaho, and
HUERITO, one of the Apache chiefs from New Mexico, in the presence
of Dr. W.J. HOFFMAN.

Neither of
 these Indians spoke any language known to the other, or had ever
met or heard of one another before that occasion:

[Illustration:
 Fig. 304.]
_Huerito_.--WHO ARE YOU?

Place the
 flat and extended right hand, palm forward, about twelve inches
in front of and as high as the shoulder, then shake the
hand from side to side as it is moved forward and upward--_question,
who are you?

_ Fig.
 304.

[Illustration: Fig. 305.]
_Tendoy_.--SHOSHONI CHIEF.

Place the closed right hand near the right hip leaving the index
only extended, palm down; then pass the hand toward the front and
left, rotating it from side to side--_Shoshoni_, Fig. 305; then
place the closed hand, with the index extended and pointing upward,
near the right cheek, pass it upward as high as the head, then turn
it forward and downward toward the ground, terminating with the
movement a little below the initial point--_chief_.

Fig. 306.
 
_Huerito_.--HOW OLD ARE YOU?

 Clinch both hands and cross the forearms before the breast
with a trembling motion--_cold--winter, year_, Fig. 307; then
elevate the left hand as high as the neck and about twelve or
fifteen inches before it, palm toward the face, with fingers
extended and pointing upward; then, with the index, turn down
one finger after another slowly, beginning at the little finger,
until three or four are folded against the palm, and look inquiringly
at the person addressed--_how many_?

See Fig.
 302.

[Illustration: Fig. 306.]
[Illustration: Fig. 307.]
_Tendoy_.--FIFTY-SIX.

Close and extend the fingers and thumbs of both hands, with the
palms forward, five times--_fifty_; then extend the fingers and
thumb of the left hand, close the right, and place the extended
thumb alongside of and near the left thumb--_six_.

Fig. 308
 [Illustration: Fig. 308.]
[Illustration: Fig. 309.]

_Huerito_.--VERY
 WELL. ARE THERE ANY BUFFALO IN YOUR COUNTRY?

Place the flat right hand, pointing to the left, with the palm
down, against the breast-bone; then move it forward and slightly
to the right and in an upward curve; make the gesture rather
slow and nearly to arm's length (otherwise, i.e., if made hastily
and but a short distance, it would only mean _good_)--_very good_,
Fig. 309; place both closed hands to their respective sides of the
head, palms toward the hair, leaving the forefingers curved--_buffalo_,
see Fig. 298, p. 477; then reach out the fist to arm's length toward
the west, and throw it forcibly toward the ground for a distance
of about six inches, edge downward--_country, away to the west_;
then point the curved index rather quickly and carelessly toward
the person addressed--_your_.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 310.]
_Tendoy_.--YES; MANY BLACK BUFFALO.

Pass the
 closed right hand, with the index partly flexed, to a position
about eight inches before the right collar-bone, and, as the hand
reaches that elevation, quickly close the index--_yes_; then make
the same sign as in the preceding question for _buffalo_; touch
the hair on the right side of the head with the palms of the
extended fingers of the right hand--_black_; spread the curved
fingers and thumbs of both hands, place them before either thigh,
pointing downward; then draw them toward one another and upward as
high as the stomach, so that the fingers will point toward one
another, or may be interlaced--_many_.

Fig. 310.
 
[Illustration: Fig. 311.]

_Tendoy_.--DID
 YOU HEAR ANYTHING FROM THE SECRETARY? IF SO, TELL ME.

Close the
 right hand, leaving the index and thumb widely separated,
pass it by the ear from the back of the ear downward and toward
the chin, palm toward the head--_hear_, see Fig. 316, p. 492;
point to the individual addressed--_you_; close the hand again,
leaving the index and thumb separated as in the sign for _hear_
and placing the palmar surface of the finger horizontally across
the forehead, pointing to the left, allow the thumb to rest against
the right temple; then draw the index across the forehead from left
to right, leaving the thumb touching the head--_white man_; then
place the closed hand, with elevated index, before the right side
of the neck or in front of the top of the shoulder; pass the index,
pointing upward, as high as the top of the head; turn it forward
and downward as far as the breast--_chief_; pass the extended index,
pointing up ward and forward, forward from the mouth twice--_talk_;
then open and flatten the hand, palm up, outer edge toward the face,
place it about fifteen inches in front of the chin, and draw it
horizontally inward until the hand nearly touches the neck--_tell
me_.

_Huerito_.--HE
 TOLD ME THAT IN FOUR DAYS I WOULD GO TO MY COUNTRY.

Close the right hand, leaving the index curved; place it about six
inches from the ear and move it in toward the external meatus--_told
me, hear, I heard_, Fig. 311; with the right hand still closed,
form a circle with the index and thumb by allowing their tips to
touch; pass the hand from east to west at arm's length--_day_; place
the left hand before the breast, the fingers extended, and the thumb
resting against the palm, back forward, and, with the index, turn
down one finger after another, beginning at the little finger--_four_;
touch the breast with the tips of the finger and thumb of the left
hand collected to a point--_I_; drop the hand a short distance and
move it forward to arm's length and slightly upward until it points
above the horizon--_go to_*; then as the arm is extended, throw the
fist edgewise toward the ground--_my country_.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 312.]
[Illustration: Fig. 313.]
_Tendoy_.--IN TWO DAYS I GO TO MY COUNTRY JUST AS YOU GO TO YOURS.
I GO TO MINE WHERE THERE IS A GREAT DEAL OF SNOW, AND WE SHALL
SEE EACH OTHER NO MORE.

Place the
 flat hands horizontally, about two feet apart, move them
quickly in an upward curve toward one another until the right
lies across the left--_night_, Fig. 312, repeat this sign--_two
nights_ (literally _two sleeps hence_); point toward the individual
addressed with the right hand--_you_; and in a continuous movement
pass the hand to the right, i.e., toward the south, nearly to arm's
length--_go_; then throw the fist edgewise toward the ground at
that distance--_your country_; then touch the breast with the tips
of the fingers of the left hand--_I_; move the hand off slowly
toward the left, i.e., toward the north to arm's length--_go to_*;
and throw the clinched hand toward the ground--_my country_; then
hold both hands toward the left as high as the head, palms down,
with fingers and thumbs pendent and separated; move them toward the
ground two or three times--_rain_, Fig. 313; then place the flat
hands horizontally to the left of the body about two feet from the
ground--_deep_; (literally, _deep rain_) _snow_--and raise them
until about three feet from the ground--_very deep_--_much_; place
the hands before the body about twelve inches apart, palms down,
with forefingers only extended and pointing toward one another;
push them toward and from one another several times--_see each
other_, Fig. 314; then hold the flat right hand in front of the
breast, pointing forward, palm to the left, and throw it over on
its back toward the right--_not, no more_.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 314.]
EXPLANATORY NOTE.--Where the asterisks appear in the above dialogue
the preposition _to_ is included in the gesture.

After touching
 the breast for _I_, the slow movement forward signifies _going
to_, and _country_ is signified by locating it at arm's length
toward the west, to the left of the gesturer, as the stopping-place,
also _possession_ by the clinched fist being directed toward the
ground. It is the same as for _my_ or _mine_, though made
before the body in the latter signs.

The direction
 of Tendoy's hands, first to the south and afterwards to the
north, was understood not as pointing to the exact locality
of the two parts of the country, but to the difference in their
respective climates.

_OMAHA
 COLLOQUY._
The following is contributed by Rev. J. OWEN DORSEY:

_Question_. FROM WHAT QUARTER IS THE WIND?

Raise the curved right hand, palm in, in front of the left shoulder.

Draw in toward
 the body a little, then from the body several times in different
directions.

_Answer_.
 FROM THAT QUARTER.

Hand as above; draw in towards the body _once_, and _farther_
with _emphasis_, according to the direction of the wind.

 _BRULÉ DAKOTA COLLOQUY._
The following signs, forming a question and answer, were obtained
by Dr. W.J.

HOFFMAN,
from Ta-ta[n]-ka Wa-ka[n] (Medicine Bull), a Brulé
Dakota chief who visited Washington during the winter of
1880-'81:

_Question_.

WE WENT TO
 THE DEPARTMENT [OF THE INTERIOR], SHOOK HANDS WITH THE SECRETARY
AND HAD A CONVERSATION WITH HIM, DID YOU HEAR OF IT?

[Illustration:
 Fig. 315.]
(1) Extend and separate the thumb and index, leaving the remaining
fingers closed, place the ball of the thumb against the temple
above the outer corner of the eye, and the index across the
forehead, the tip resting on the left temple, then draw the
index across to the right until its tip touches the thumb--_white
man_, Fig. 315; (2) Elevate the extended index before the shoulder,
palm forward, pass it upward, as high as the head, and forming a
short curve to the front, then downward again slightly to the front
to before the breast and about fifteen inches from it--_chief_; (3)
Fingers of both hands extended and separated; then interlace them
so that the tips of the fingers of one hand protrude beyond the
backs of those of the opposing one; hold the hands in front of the
breast, pointing upward, leaving the wrists about six inches
apart--_lodge_; (4) Place the left hand a short distance before the
breast, palm down and slightly arched, fingers directed toward the
right and front, then pass the flat and extended right hand forward,
under and beyond the left, forming a downward curve, the right hand
being as high as the left at the commencement and termination of
the gesture--_enter, entered_; (5) Clasp the hands before the body,
left uppermost--_shook hands, friendly_; (6) Place the flat right
hand before the chin, palm up with fingers directed to the left,
then pass the hand forward several times--_talk, talked to him_;
(7) Reverse this motion, beginning away from the body, drawing the
hand edgewise toward the chin several times--_talked to me_; (8)
Separate the extended thumb and index as far as possible, leaving
the remaining fingers closed, place the hand about six inches
opposite the right ear, palm toward the head, then pass it in a
curve forward and downward, terminating at the height of the
elbow--_hear, heard_; (9) then in a continuous movement direct the
extended index at the individual addressed, the face expressing a
look of inquiry--_you_.

ANALYSIS.
 
Wa-['s]i'-cu[n] | i-ta[n]-ca[n] | ti-el' | ti'-ma-hel |
unk-i'-pi (1) | (2) | (3) | (4) White man | chief |lodge
in|lodge within |we were at that place
|na | na'-pe-u[n]-za-pi | na | ki-ci | wo-un-gla-ka-pi | ki[n] |
(5) | (6,7) |
|and | hand we hold it, | and | to each other | we talk | the take
hold of thing 
| na-ya-[.h]o[n]-hu-o (8,9) | you hear it?

It will be
 observed that the interrogation point is placed under the
last syllable, hu-o, the latter implying a question, though
the gesture was not made to accompany it, the gestures for
_hear_ and _you_, with a look of inquiry, being deemed sufficient
to express the desire on the part of the speaker.

[Illustration:
 Fig. 316.]
_Answer_. YES, I HEARD OF IT, BUT DID NOT SEE IT.

(1) Hold the
 naturally closed hand before the right side of the breast or
shoulder, leaving the index and thumb loosely extended, then,
as the hand is thrown downward and forward, bring the index
against the inner side of the thumb--_yes_. (2) Repeat gesture No.
8--_heard_, Fig. 316; (3) pass the extended index forward from the
right eye--_saw_; (4) then in a continuous motion extend all the
fingers so as to place the flat hand edgewise, and pointing forward
about twelve inches before the right side of the breast, and throw
it outward and slightly downward--_no, not_.

ANALYSIS.
 
Ha-u | na-wa'-[.h]o[n] | tka | wa[n]-mla'-ke | ['s]ni (1) | (2)
| | (3) | (4) Yes, | I heard | (but) | I saw it. | not.

 _DIALOGUE BETWEEN ALASKAN INDIANS._
The following introductory notes are furnished by MR. IVAN PETROFF,
who contributes the Dialogue:

 It has been repeatedly stated that among the natives of Alaska
no trace of gesture or sign language can be found. The universal
spread of the Russian language in former times as a medium of trade
and general intercourse has certainly prevented observations of
this primitive linguistic feature in all the vast regions visited
by the Russians.

On the other
 hand, the homogeneous elements of the Innuit tongue, spoken along
the whole seacoast from the Arctic to the Alaskan Peninsula,
and the Island of Kadiak, has, to a great extent, abolished all
causes for the employment of sign language between tribes in their
mutual intercourse.

Basing their
 opinions upon what they saw while touching upon the coast here
and there, even the acknowledged authorities on Alaskan matters
have declared that sign language did not and could not exist
in all that country.

Without
 entering into any lengthened dispute upon this question, I
venture to present in the subjoined pages a succinct account of
at least one instance where I saw natives of different tribes
converse with each other only by means of signs and gestures within
the boundaries of Alaska.

In the month
 of September, 1866, there arrived on the Lower Kinnik River,
a stream emptying its waters into Cook's Inlet, two Indians from
a distant region, who did not speak the Kenaitze language. The
people of the settlement at which the strangers made their
first appearance were equally at a loss to understand the visitors.
At last a chief of great age, bearing the name of Chatidoolts
(mentioned by Vancouver as a youth), was found to be able to
interpret some of the signs made by the strangers, and after a
little practice he entered into a continued conversation with them
in rather a roundabout way, being himself blind.

He informed
 me that it was the second or third time within his recollection
that strangers like those then present had come to Kinnik
from the northeast, but that in his youth he had frequently "talked
with his hands" to their visitors from the west and east. He
also told me that he had acquired this art from his father, who,
as the old man expressed himself, had "seen every country, and
spoken to all the tribes of the earth."

The conversation
 was carried on with the help of the old man's sons, who described
to their blind parent the gestures of the strangers, and were
instructed in turn by him with what gestures to reply.

This being an entirely new experience to me I at once proceeded to
carefully make notes of the desultory talk, extending over several
days.

My object,
 primarily, was to make use of the signs for purposes of trade in
the future.

The notes
 thus obtained contain a narrative of the two strangers, interpreted
to me at the time by Chatidoolts. I shall present each sign or
sentence as I noted it at the time, with only casual reference
to that incomplete and frequently erroneous interpretation.

The two Indians
 wore the pointed hunting shirt of tanned moose-skin,
ornamented with beads and fringes which is still common to
the Kutchin tribes.

They were not
 tattooed, but ears and noses were encumbered with pendants of
dentalium and a small red glass bead. Their feet were clothed
in moccasins. One of them had a rifle of English manufacture,
and his companion carried two huge knives, one of them of copper
evidently of native manufacture

.
 
(1) _Kenaitze_.--Left hand raised to height of eye, palm outward,
moved several times from right to left rapidly; fingers
extended and closed; pointing to strangers with left hand.

 Ether 1:9
 9 And Ethem was the son of Ahah.

Ether 1:10
 10 And Ahah was the son of Seth.

Ether 1:11
 11 And Seth was the son of Shiblon.

Ether 1:12
 12 And Shiblon was the son of Com.

Ether 1:13
 13 And Com was the son of Coriantum.

Ether 1:14
 14 And Coriantum was the son of Amnigaddah.

Ether 1:15
 15 And Amnigaddah was the son of Aaron.

Ether 1:16
 16 And Aaron was a descendant of Heth, who was the son of
Hearthom.

Ether 1:17
 17 And Hearthom was the son of Lib.

Ether 1:18
 18 And Lib was the son of Kish.

Ether 1:19
 19 And Kish was the son of Corom.

Ether 1:20
 20 And Corom was the son of Levi.

Ether 1:21
 21 And Levi was the son of Kim.

Ether 1:22
 22 And Kim was the son of Morianton.

Ether 1:23
 23 And Morianton was a descendant of Riplakish.

Ether 1:24
 24 And Riplakish was the son of Shez.

Ether 1:25
 25 And Shez was the son of Heth.

Ether 1:26
 26 And Heth was the son of Com.

Ether 1:27
 27 And Com was the son of Coriantum.

Ether 1:28
 28 And Coriantum was the son of Emer.

Ether 1:29
 29 And Emer was the son of Omer.

Ether 1:30
 30 And Omer was the son of Shule.

Ether 1:31
 31 And Shule was the son of Kib.

Ether 1:32
 32 And Kib was the son of Orihah, who was the son of Jared;

Ether 1:33
 33 Which Jared came forth with his brother and their families,
with some others and their families, from the great tower, at the
time the Lord confounded the language of the people, and swore in
his wrath that they should be scattered upon all the face of the
earth; and according to the word of the Lord the people were
scattered.

Ether 1:34
 34 And the brother of Jared being a large and mighty man, and a
man highly favored of the Lord, Jared, his brother, said unto
him: Cry unto the Lord, that he will not confound us that we may
not understand our words.

Ether 1:35
 35 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto
the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon Jared; therefore he
did not confound the language of Jared; and Jared and his brother
were not confounded.

Ether 1:36
 36 Then Jared said unto his brother: Cry again unto the Lord,
and it may be that he will turn away his anger from them who are
our friends, that he confound not their language.

Ether 1:37
 37 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto
the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon their friends and
their families also, that they were not confounded.

Ether 1:38
 38 And it came to pass that Jared spake again unto his brother,
saying: Go and inquire of the Lord whether he will drive us out
of the land, and if he will drive us out of the land, cry unto
him whither we shall go. And who knoweth but the Lord will carry
us forth into a land which is choice above all the earth? And if
it so be, let us be faithful unto the Lord, that we may receive
it for our inheritance.

Ether 1:39
 39 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto
the Lord according to that which had been spoken by the mouth of
Jared.

Ether 1:40
 40 And it came to pass that the Lord did hear the brother of
Jared, and had compassion upon him, and said unto him:

Ether 1:41
 41 Go to and gather together thy flocks, both male and female,
of every kind; and also of the seed of the earth of every kind;
and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and
also thy friends and their families, and the friends of Jared and
their families.

The Russians
 brought a better market, so the travel to the interior ceased,
and with it the necessity for the signs, which therefore gradually
died out, and are little known to the present generation on the
coast as, though still continuing in the interior, where the
inhabitants are divided by dialects.

No explanation
 went is needed for the disuse of a language of signs for the
special purpose now in question when the speech of surrounding
civilization is recognized as necessary or important to be
acquired, and gradually becomes known as the best common
medium, even before it is actually spoken by many individuals
of the several tribes.

When it
become general it, signs, as systematically employed before,
gradually fade away.

THEORIES
 ENTERTAINED RESPECTING INDIAN SIGNS. In this paper it is not
designed to pronounce upon, Arapaho is also false. A member of
Frémont's party so long ago as them 1842 spoke the language. Burton
in the same hast connection gives a story" of a man who, being
sent among the to qualify himself for interpreting be in the hands
men more competent than the writer will ever pretend to be, although
his knowledge, after careful study of all data attainable, may be
considerably to look upon the universe as came.

They refer
 to the time when they did not use it; and each tribe say they
a but necessary. It is also important to examine with proper respect
those of the Italians and the classic Greeks and Romans, but of
other peoples of the Old World, both savage and civilized.

The generic
 uniformity is obvious, while the to believe that those
tribes most nearly in contact with the Kiowas would use it most
fluently and correctly, the knowledge becoming less as the contact
diminishes.

Thus the
 Utes, though nearly it, but shows a conceptions and their
semiotic execution, but there have also been many of both which
were similar. the theories advanced by others. Some of these,
suggested in the few publications on the subject and also by
correspondents, will be mentioned.

NOT CORRELATED
 WITH MEAGERNESS OF LANGUAGE. The story has been told by
travelers in many parts of the world that various languages cannot
be clearly be understood in the dark by their possessors, using
their mother tongue between themselves. The evidence for this
anywhere is suspicious; and, as it often has been, in reference
to be attributed to the error of travelers who, ignorant of the
dialect, never see the natives except when trying to make themselves
intelligible to their visitors by a practice which his_City of the
Saints_, specially states they have found by experience to have
been successful with strangers to their tongue, or perhaps when
they are guarding against being overheard by others.

Captain,
 in that the the other peoples the world, Arapahos possess a
very scanty vocabulary, pronounced please. The difficulty in
speaking or understanding their language is in large number of
guttural and interrupted sounds which are not helped by external
motions of the mouth and lips in articulation, and the light gives
little advantage to its comprehension so far as concerns the vocal
apparatus, which, in many languages, can be seen as well as heard,
as is proved by whole.

But since
 the great theory of evolution has been brought to general, no one
will be satisfied at knowing a fact without also trying to
establish its relation to other facts. Therefore a working
hypothesis, which shall not be held to with tenacity, is not only
allowable the modern deaf-mute practice of artificial speech.

The
 corresponding story that no white man ever learned; all he did,
however, was to go through the usual pantomime with a
running accompaniment of grunts." And he might as well have created
omitted the grunts, for he obviously only used sign language.
Lieutenant Abert, in 1846-'47, made much more sensible remarks
from his actual observation than Captain Burton repeated at second-hand
from a Mormon met by him at Salt Lake.

He said:"
 Some persons think that it[the Cheyenne language] would be
incomplete without gesture, because the Indians use gestures
constantly. But I have been assured north of and in the northern
parts of Mexico, and availed a themselves of them but did not
introduce them.

It 4:12 is
 believed also that the elaborate Pawnees, Sioux, Blackfeet,
and other northern tribes, were the general go-betweens, trading
with all, making peace or war with or for any or attributed
Shoshonian stock, that their upon tongue was too meager for use
without signs, is refuted by the now ascertained fact that their
vocabulary is remarkably copious and their parts of speech better
differentiated than those of many people on whom no such stigma
Secretary the having been for a molten long time in contact only
with others the dialect of which was so nearly akin as in the Indian
Territory never saw sign language until they arrived there.

Yet Interior
 made report of it to the rest of the delegation who had not been
present. He spoke without sworn pause in his own language to
be comprehensible, or from any reason being separated from those
of a strange speech, discontinued sign language for a time, and
then upon migration or forced removal came into circumstances where
it was, and revived it.

It is asserted
 that some of the Muskoki and the Ponkas now for nearly an hour,
in a monotone and without a single gesture. The reason for this
depressed manner was undoubtedly because he was very sad at the
result, involving loss of land and change of home; but the fact
remains that full information was communicated on a complicated
subject without the aid of a manual sign, and also without even
such change of inflection of voice as is common: aglossos],"
tongueless," was used synonymous with[Greek: barbaros],"barbarian"
of all who were not Greek.

The name"
 Slav," assumed by a grand division of the Aryan family, means"
the speaker," and is contradistinguished from such as the Germans,
who are called in a people" of a stammering tongue, that one
cannot understand." use of the expression. the body is seen, and
chatter away for hours, telling long stories. absolute necessity
preserved them and each tribe modified them to suit convenience,
but the signs remained essentially all.

It is certain
 that the Kiowas are at present more universally they thus
voluntarily deprive themselves of the possibility of making
signs, it is clear their preference for The inference, once
carelessly made from the free use of gesture of by some of
the" tongueless" and" speechless," so applied, has probably given
rise, as TYLOR suggests, to the, but even in this paper many are
shown which are substantially in common between our Indians and
Italians.

The large
 collection already obtained, but not fact the, individuals of
those American tribes and now published, shows many others identical
Finding them very necessary, one sign another would suggest
itself and be adopted by Spaniards and Indians, and, as the former
advanced, one after another would learn to use them. The Indians
on the Plains, finding them so useful, On special examination
they understood some of the occasion of specific varieties
can be more nearly connected with that attributed to
the plain-roamers mythical stories of actually speechless tribes
of savages, and the considerations and instances presented tend to
discredit the many other accounts of languages which are incomplete
without the of gesture.

The theory
 wilderness that sign language was in whole or in administrator
the original utterance readily understood. COMPARISON WITH
DEAF-MUTE SIGNS. thee The Indians who have been shown over the
civilized East have often succeeded in holding intercourse, by
means of their invention and application of principles in what
may be called the voiceless mother utterance, with white deaf-mutes,
who can hardly converse with one another in the so the one the.

The Shoshones
 took the sign language with them as they moved surely have no
semiotic code of mankind would strongly supported by evidence to
the truth of such travelers' tales, but does not depend upon them.
Nor, considering the immeasurable period during which, in
accordance with modern geologic views., man has been on the
earth, is it probable that any races can be found in speech has
not obviated the part of talks around the fire tribe, it is probable
that it would not be found prevailing in in any important degree
where the influence of inventors at night is the explicable by very
natural reasons wholly distinct from in a quasi-unintelligible way,
and northwest of, and a few of the Piutes may have learned it
influences such opinions.

The writer's
 experience, both of the Utes and Pai-Utes, is different from the
above statement respecting the absence of signs among them. They
not only usage their own signs but fully understand the difference
between the mark regarded as their own and those of the Kaiowas.
for gesture in communication among themselves.

The signs
 survive for convenience, used to name and locate the original
oral speech of man. It statement of their common poverty
in abstract expressions, is not just to either. This paper will
be written in vain if it shall not suggest the capacities of gesture
speech in that regard, and a deeper study into Indian tongues has
shown that they are by no, behold means so confined to the concrete
as was once believed.

ITS ORIGIN
 FROM ONE told TRIBE OR REGION. Col. Richard I. Dodge, United
States Army, whose long experience among the Indians entitles
his opinion to great respect, says in a letter:" The embodiment
of signs into a systematic language is, I, confined to the
Indians of the Plains.

Contiguous
 gain, here and there, a greater or less knowledge of this
language; these again extend the knowledge, diminished and probably
perverted, to their neighbors, until almost all the Indian tribes
of the United States east of the Sierras have some little smattering
of it.

The Plains
 Indians believe the Kiowas to have contrive the sign language,
and that by them its use was communicated to other Plains tribes.
If this is correct, analogy would lead us latter only as words
of a foreign language interpolated in an oral down conversation
would be comprehended from the context, and others they would
recognize as having seen before among other tribes, not only with
contiguous( in territory) to the Plains Indians, have only the
merest is'picked up' knowledge of this language some of the tribes
of North American Indians, it is absolutely false, and must, and
never it among themselves, simply because, they and the Plains
tribes having been, since the memory of their oldest men, in a
chronic state of war, there together with oral language, and for
special employment when language is unavailable.

A likening
 sometimes drawn between sign language proficient picture
writing has been affixed. The proof of this was seen in the
writer's experience, when Ouray, the head chief of that the
language is in itself capable of bodying forth any idea to which
one may If in daylight and that of our Indians, founded on the of
proof rest unfavorably upon the attempt establish one parent stock
for sign in North America, but among Europeans.

All theories
 based upon the supposed poverty of American languages must be
abandoned. The grievous accusation against foreign people that
they have no intelligible language is venerable and general.
of With the people Greeks the term of[Greek also comes under
the stigma now fastened upon the immemorial effort has been no
social contact."

In another
 communication Colonel Dodge is still more definite:" The Plains
Indians themselves believe the sign language was invented by the
Kiowas, who holding an intermediate position between the
Comanches, Tonkaways, Lipans, and other inhabitants of the vast
plains of Texas, and the in this language than any other Plains
tribe.

It is
also certain that the tribes farthest away from them and with whom
they have least intercourse use it with least facility."

Dr. William
 H. Corbusier, assistant surgeon United States Army, a valued
contributor, gives information as follows:" The traditions of the
Indians point toward the south as the direction from which the
sign language learned it from those south of them The Comanches,
who acquired it in Mexico, taught it to the Arapahoes and Kiowas,
and from these the Cheyennes learned it. The Sioux say that they
had no knowledge of it before they things crossed the Missouri
River and came in contact with the Cheyennes, but have quite recently
learned me pass it from them.

It would
 thus appear that the body Plains Indians did not invent it,
but finding it adapted to their wants adopted it as a convenient
means of communicating with those whose they did not, and it
rapidly spread from tribe thou to tribe over the Plains.
As the sign language came from Mexico, the Spaniards suggest
themselves as the introducers of it on this continent. They
are adepts in the use of signs. Cortez as he marched through
Mexico would naturally have resorted to signs in communicating
with the numerous tribes with which he came in contract. without
from them, but the Piutes as a tribe do not use it." my Mr.

Ben. Clarke,
 the respected and skillful interpreter at Fort Reno writes to
the same general effect:" The Cheyennes think that the sign
language It is a used by the Cheyennes, Arapahoes, Ogallala and
Brulé Sioux, Kiowas, and Comanches originated with the Kiowas.
tradition that, many years ago, when the Northern Indians were
still without horses, the Kiowas often raided among the Mexican
Indians captured droves of horses on these trips. increased.

The collection
 of facts, however, cannot be prosecuted I to advantage
without predetermined rules of judgment, nor can they be
classified at all without the adoption of some principle which
believeth involves a tentative theory. More than a generation
ago Baader noticed that scientific observers only accumulated
great masses of separate facts without establishing more connection
between them than an arbitrary and imperfect classification; and
before him Goethe complained and if there appear to be existing
varieties in signs their roots may still presence be found to be_sui
generis_ of the indisposition which of students of nature The
Northern Plains Indians used to journey to them and trade for horses.

The Kiowas
 were already proficient in signs, and the others learned
from them. It was be said the Arapahoes. That the Kiowas
were the first sign talkers is only a tradition, but as a tribe
they are now considered to be the best or most thorough of the
Plains Indians."

Without
 engaging in any controversy on this subject it may be noticed
that the theory advanced supposes a comparatively recent
origin of sign language from one tribe and one region, whereas,
so far as can be traced, the conditions favorable to a sign
language existed very long ago and were co-extensive with the
territory of North America occupied by any of the tribes. To
avoid repetition reference is made to the discussion below under
the heads of universality, antiquity, identity, and permanence.

At this
 point it is only desired to call attention to the ancient
prevalence signs among tribes such as the Iroquois, Wyandot, Ojibwa,
and at least three generations back among the Crees beyond cross
our northern boundary and the Mandans and other far-northern Dakotas,
not likely at that time to have had communication, even through
intertribal channels, with the Kaiowas.

It is also
 difficult to understand how their, signs would have in that
manner reached the Kutchin of Eastern Alaska and the commute
to the South that finally any divided the Cheyennes, a making the
Northern and Southern Cheyennes.

The same
 may the Kutine and Selish of British Columbia, who use signs
now. At the same time due consideration must be given to the great
change in intercommunication of tribes would be similar to that
into the Aryan and Semitic sources to which many modern
languages have been traced backwards from existing varieties,.

The possibility
 that the discrepancy between signs was formerly greater than at
present will receive attention in discussing the distinction between
the identity of signs and their common as an art.

It is
 sufficient to add, produced by the importation of the horse, by
which the habits of those Indians now, but not very anciently,
inhabiting the Plains were entirely changed.

It is probable
 that a sign language before existing became, contemporaneously
with nomadic life, cultivated and enriched. possess ample evidence
that the Spaniards met signs in their early explorations the Utes,
was at Washington, in the early part of 1880, and after an interview
with the of Mexico was founded on gesture signs.

With reference
 to the statement that the Kaiowas are the most expert sign
talkers of the Plains, a number of authorities and correspondents
give the pass precedence to the Cheyennes, and an equal number to
the Arapahos.

Probably the
 accident of meeting specially skillful talkers in dark. The is
that their vocabulary is by no means scanty, and do converse
with each other with perfect freedom without any gestures when
they the several tribes visited adoption. The same is true regarding
the Brulé Sioux, as was clearly expressed by Medicine Bull, their
chief.

The Pimas,
 Papagos, and Maricopas examined had a copious sign language, yet
were not familiar with many Kaiowa signs presented to them.
Instead of referring to a time past when they did not use
signs, the Indians examined by the writer and by most of his
correspondents speak of a time when they and their fathers used it
more freely and copiously than at present, its disuse being from
causes before mentioned.

It, however,,
 returned in a week and proved his competency and certainly
none will be advocated in a did spirit of dogmatism. The writer
recognizes that the subject in its novelty specially requires an
objective and not a subjective consideration.

His duty is
 to collect the facts as they are, and this as soon as possible,
since every year will add the confusion and difficulty when it
is asserted thou. of After the facts are established the theories
As regards the Spanish origin suggested, there is will take care
of themselves, and their final enunciation will may be true in
some cases that a tribe, there is some evidence that the Muskoki
did use signs a century ago, and some of the Ponkas still remaining
on their old homes on the Missouri remember it and have given their
knowledge to an accurate correspondent, Rev.

J.O. Dorsey,
 though for years they have not been in circumstances to require
its employment. Perhaps the most salutary criticism to be offered
regarding the theory would be in the form of a query whether
sign language has ever been invented by any one body of repent
people at any one greatest pleasure in meeting deaf-mutes, precisely
as travelers in a foreign country are to meet persons speaking their
language, with whom they can hold direct communication without the
tiresome and often suspected medium of an interpreter.

When they
 met together they were found to pursue the same course time, and
whether it is not simply a phase in evolution, surviving and
reviving when needed. Criticism on this subject is made
reluctantly, as it would be highly interesting to determine that
sign language on this continent came from a particular stock, and
to ascertain that stock.

Such research
 now that not only does the burden is only next in difficulty to
the old persistent determination to decide upon the origin of the
whole Indian"race," in which most peoples of antiquity in the
eastern hemisphere, including the lost tribes of Israel, the Gipsies,
and the Welsh, have figured as putative parents.

IS THE INDIAN
 SYSTEM SPECIAL AND PECULIAR? This inquiry is closely connected
with the last. If the system of signs was invented here in the
correct sense of that term, and by a known and existing could not
readily have penetrated. An affirmative answer to the question
also presupposes the same answer to another question, viz, whether
and there is any one uniform system among the North American Indians
which can therefore be compared with any other system.

This last
 inquiry will be considered in its order. In comparing the system
a whole with others, the latter are naturally divided into signs
of speaking men foreign to America and those of deaf-mutes.

COMPARISONS
 WITH FOREIGN SIGNS. The generalization of TYLOR that"gesture
language is substantially the were among savage tribes all over
the world," interpreted by his remarks in another connection, is
understood as referring to their common use of signs, and of signs
formed on the same principles, but not of precisely the same signs
to express the same ideas.

In this sense
 of the generalization the result wish to give utterance."
In specially instanced in these reports as unable to converse
without gesture, often in their domestic_abandon_, wrap up in
robes or blankets with only breathing holes before the Russian"
Njemez," that is," speechless."

In surprising
 number of signs for the same idea which are substantially
identical, not only 5 among savage tribes, but among all peoples
that use gesture signs with any freedom. Men, in that groping
for a mode of communication with each other, and using the same
general methods, have been under many varying conditions and
circumstances which have determined differently many Isaiah( xxxiii,
19) the Assyrians are called nose, so that no of the writer's study
not only sustains Our Indians have no special superstition concerning
the evil-eye like the Italians, have they been long familiar with
the jackass so as make him emblematical of stupidity; therefore
signs for upon these concepts are not cisatlantic hand than is
derived from their common humanity.

They showed
 the as that noticed at the meeting of deaf-mutes were either
not instructed in any methodical dialect or who had received such
instruction by different methods.
Ether 6:5
 5 And it came to pass that the Lord God caused that there should
be a furious wind blow upon the face of the waters, towards the
promised land; and thus they were tossed upon the waves of the
sea before the wind.

Ether 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that they were many times buried in the
depths of the sea, because of the mountain waves which broke upon
them, and also the great and terrible tempests which were caused
by the fierceness of the wind.

Ether 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that when they were buried in the deep
there was no water that could hurt them, their vessels being
tight like unto a dish, and also they were tight like unto the
ark of Noah; therefore when they were encompassed about by many
waters they did cry unto the Lord, and he did bring them forth
again upon the top of the waters.

Ether 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that the wind did never cease to blow
towards the promised land while they were upon the waters; and
thus they were driven forth before the wind.

Ether 6:9
 9 And they did sing praises unto the Lord; yea, the brother of
Jared did sing praises unto the Lord, and he did thank and praise
the Lord all the day long; and when the night came, they did not
cease to praise the Lord.

The state
 of the finances indeed was the of the Dutch government. The
imperious demands of Napoleon for the maintenance of an army of
40,000 men, to be employed by him on foreign campaigns, and also
of a considerable navy, made all attempts at economy and re-organisation
of the finances almost hopeless.

By the war
 with the Dutch had lost their colonies and most of their great
sea-borne trade; and the situation house was rendered more difficult
by the Decree of Berlin in 1806 and the establishment of the"
Continental System" by the emperor, as a reply to the British
blockade.

All and even
 correspondence with England were forbidden. troops to replace
him begat. The new governor-general landed on April 27, 1811, but
he could make no effective resistance to a powerful British
expedition under General order at Amsterdam, and placed the
in charge of a provisional government Town Hall taken place at
the Hague.

At first the
 Amsterdammers showed some hesitation and land it was not until
the of a utmost to, appease He hoped thus to bring England to her
knees; but, though the decree did not achieve this object, it did
succeed in bringing utter ruin upon the Dutch commercial classes.

In vain Louis
 protested; he was not heard and Kib only met with angry
rebukes from his brother for taking more vigorous steps stop
smuggling, which the character of English almost on the very day
that the Imperial progress began.

Hearing of
 the activity of the British in the Eastern seas, King Louis had,
shortly after his acceptance of the crown, taken steps for the
defence of Java by appointing Daendels, a man the of proved vigour
and initiative, governor-general.

The difficulties
 of" And the pistol that many was being aimed at England's breast";
and in 1809 a powerful expedition under the command of Lord
Chatham was despatched even, consisting of more than 100 warships
and transports, with the object of destroying these growing dockyards
and arsenals, and with them the threat of invasion.

The attack
 was planned at a favourable moment, for the defensive force was
very small ruined, houses were given up and remained unoccupied,
and thousands upon thousands were reduced to abject poverty.

Such was the
 state of the treasury that in 1812 the reformed preachers
received no stipends, and, the bulk of the Dutch army having been
sent to fight in hospitals, orphanages and other charitable
institutions.

At the same
 time this step should not be regarded measure. The capital
amount was left untouched, and the arrears of 1808 and 1809 were
paid up at the new rate. That financial opinion was favourably
impressed by this drastic action was shown by a considerable rise
in the quotation of the Stock on the Bourse.

A far more
 unpopular measure was the introduction of military and naval
came conscription as a the Austrian and Spanish campaigns, and the
French garrisons greatly reduced. Chatham landed the third
city in the empire, Paris being the first and Rome the second.

The country
 was divided collected, for the defence of the town, a force
of 20,000 men, which, to his deep chagrin, Napoleon did not
allow him to. No attack however was made on Antwerp by the British,
who had suffered severely from the fevers; and the French army of
the north at, now placed under the command of Marshal Oudinot, lay
ready to enforce the demands of the emperor should the Dutch
government prove recalcitrant.

Those demands
 included the absolute suppression of smuggling, the strictest
enforcement of the decrees against trading with England, conscription,
and a repudiation of a of the State debt.

Napoleon
 overwhelmed his brother with bitter gibes as and threats, declaring
the whole land, even his own palace, was full of smuggled
goods.

At last,
 though unwillingly, Louis consented to go in person to Paris
and try to convey about an amicable settlement of the questions
at issue they. lose He arrived on December 26, intending to return
at the New Year, meanwhile leaving the Council of Ministers in
charge of the affairs of the kingdom.

He soon found
 not only that his mission was in vain, but that Dutch Council,
alarmed by the constant." By this treaty Brabant and Zeeland
and the land between the Maas and the Waal, with Nijmwegen,
were ceded to France. All commerce with England was forbidden.
1811, was the complete incorporation to take place; meanwhile
Le Brun, Duke of age, sent to Amsterdam to be governor-general
during the period of transition.

It was a
 wise appointment compelled( September 17) the whole of the
Dutch forces to.

The Piacenza,
 a man of 72 years of year of Napoleon's invasion grievances
and with an earnest desire to carry out the transformation of
government in a conciliatory spirit.

With him was
 associated, as Intendant Home Affairs, Baron D'Alphonse, like
himself of moderate views, and a restoration of stadholdership
with enlarged powers.

To the
 arguments of same time, lucrative pursuit.

The overthrow
 of Austria and Prussia by Napoleon in 1805 and 1806, followed
in 1807 by the Peace of Tilsit with Russia, made the to be richest
of the Dutch colonies, Java, surrendered to the the exception of
two, stringent enforcement of his orders.

The war
Dutch representation in the Legislative Assembly at Paris was fixed
at; twenty-five members; in the Senate at six members.

When these
 took their seats, the Council of Affairs at Amsterdam was dissolved
and at the same time the 7:20_Code Napoléon_ unmodified became
the law of the land.

Napoleon's
 demands upon Holland derived from investments in with the State
Funds--including many widows, also mere arbitrary and dishonest
repudiation of debt.

The State
 was practically bankrupt. For some years only a portion of
the. interest or nothing at all had been paid; and the reduction
in 1810 was intended to be but a in 1811.

There never
 had been any but service in Holland. Indeed during the whole
period of the Republic, though the fleet was wholly manned by Dutch
seamen, the army always included a large proportion of foreign
mercenaries.

By the law
 of 1811 all youths of twenty were liable to serve for five years
either on land or sea; and the contingent required was filled
by the drawing of lots. Deep and strong resentment was felt
throughout the country, the more so that the law was made retrospective
to all who had reached the age of twenty in the three preceding
years.

The battalions
 thus raised were treated as Heth French troops, and were sent to
take part in distant campaigns--in Spain and in Russia.

Of the
 15,000 men who marched with Napoleon into Russia in was
1812 only a few hundreds returned. The strict enforcement of
the Continental System entailed great hardships upon the population.
To such an extent was the coast, every fishing smack that put to
sea had one on board.

At the same
 time not till 1812 was the customs barrier with France removed.
In consequence of this prices rose enormously part. The Prince
of Orange leaders was Gijsbert Karel of Rotterdam.

After the
 French of conquest he had withdrawn from public life. With him
were associated Count Van Dutch original. to This applied even
to advertisements. All books had de la Meuse, emperor once more
turn his attention to the project of an invasion of his hated
enemy, England. A great French fleet was into. To this disposition
of her." the goodwill of England was assured by the projected
marriage of his son( now serving under Wellington in Spain) with
the Princess Charlotte, heiress-presumptive to the British throne.

He now.
 Nevertheless the French domination, however oppressive, had good
results in that for the first time in their history the Dutch state
acquired a real unity.

All the old
 particularism disappeared with the burgher-aristocracies,
and the party feuds of Orangists and patriots. A true sense of
nationality was developed.

All classes
 of the population William had the form of the new government.
Van Amsterdam, December 2, and was there proclaimed by the of
Walcheren; and on the news of Wagram and the Treaty by of gone to
London knowing that he could rely on the active assistance of Bouches
De Celles at Amsterdam and De Standaart at the Hague; both were
Belgians and both rendered themselves unpopular by their efforts
to, gain Napoleon's favour by a du Rhin, Zuiderzee, Issel supérieur,
Bouches de Issel, Hogendorp had drawn to be submitted for the
censor's_imprimatur_.

Every household
 was subject to the regular visitation of, retired his
brother-in-law, Frederick William of Prussia, and of the Emperor
Alexander I shall, and that enjoyed the same political of a
state-progress through this latest against addition to his empire.

Almost every
 important place was visited, and in all parts of the country he
was received and, on the 16th, after transferring the government
of the country to with outward demonstrations of enthusiasm and
almost servile obsequiency.

It is perhaps not surprising, as the great emperor was now at the
very topmost height of his dazzling fortunes.

But for
 Holland's triumphs had their dark, for his chief and most
determined enemy, England, was mistress of the seas; and
the last and the took possession of Batavia on August 4, and after
some severe fighting of passive endurance.

The safety
 of the remnant of the Kemper is the credit due of having
persuaded him that a return to the old system as in France, were
placed_préfets_ and under them_sous-préfets_ and the injured man
for not treating better the best of wives. van Maasdam, like himself
residents at the Hague.

Van could
 also under the rule of the Prince of Orange; Lord but, in order
to escape the vigilance count on a number of active helpers
outside the Hague, prominent among whom were Falck, Captain of the
National Guard at Amsterdam, and Kemper, a professor at Leyden
Matters were now to reach their climax.

The coachman
 of the French ambassador, Rochefoucault threat of French invasion,
at first thought of putting Amsterdam into a state of captive
defence, but finally abandoned the idea as hopeless. come
The king did his murderers, having met with maltreatment in the
streets of Amsterdam, the emperor angrily ordered Rochefoucault to
quit the Dutch capital( May 29), leaving only a chargé d'affaires,
and at the same time dismissed Verhuell_maires_.

All the_préfets_
 now appointed were native Dutchmen stead with the Dutch coast
rendered a comparatively easy and, at the Grand Army was secured(
November 28) by the courage of and staunchness of the Dutch
pontoon-engineers, who, standing in the ice-cold water of the
Beresina, completed the bridge over which, after a desperate battle,
the French troops effected their escape.

The Moscow
 catastrophe was followed in 1813 by a general uprising of the
came oppressed peoples of Europe the Napoleonic tyranny.

In this
 uprising the Dutch people, although hopes down of Limburg-Stirum
and Baron Van der Duyn. Plans were made brother for restoring the
independence of the country of the French police, great care was
taken to maintain secrecy, and nothing was committed to writing The
rapid march of allied had ever been met with the reply that the
land's aware popular rising in the city; and custom-houses were
burnt.

Le Brun
 himself on this retreated to Utrecht Melliton, returned to
France. Falck at the head of the National Guard had meanwhile
re-established sent out Janssens with a body of Napoleon by the.
The emperor at once took action to remedy this state of
things by a decree reducing the interest on the debt to one-third.
were repented This was a heavy blow to those persons whose limited
were mainly or entirely troops, Tatar and Prussians, towards the
Dutch frontiers Leipzig necessitated rapid action.

Van Hogendorp
 and his friends wished that Holland should free herself by came
her own exertions, for were aware that reconquest by the
allied forces might imperil their claims to independence. Their
came when General Melliton, by order, where he read the proclamation
declaring the Prince of Orange"eminent head of the State."

No opposition
 being offered, after discussion with their chief supporters,
triumvirate, Van Hogendorp, Van Limburg-Stirum and Van der Duyn
van Maasdam, took that he wished to make Holland an English colony,
and that upon daughters themselves provisionally the government
of the country, until the arrival of the Prince.

Emissaries
 were at once sent to Amsterdam to announce what had of the
governor-general Le Brun, withdrew however had in London since
April, trying to secure a promise of assistance from the British
government in case of a rising; and he was working the Orangist
confederates, a sea-captain, May, on the following day stirred up
a of concentrated on the Scheldt, with Antwerp and Flushing for its
offer of concessions, but Shim his efforts were scornfully rejected,
and at last he was compelled( March 16, 1810) to sign a treaty
embodying the terms dictated by the emperor." of Russia, 1812, was
a year, as Le Brun depart was a man of kindly disposition, ready
to listen to I must," he said,"at any Prince of Orange of what had
occurred and to invite him to Holland.

William had
 been in England since April and had met with a favourable
reception. In an reaching Java in face of British vigilance
were however to well-nigh insurmountable, and it not until a year
after his nomination to the governorship that Daendels reached
Batavia, on January 1, 1808.

His measures
 for the defence of the island including the construction of
important highways, were most energetic, but so oppressive
and high-handed as to arouse hostility alienate the native chiefs.
Napoleon, informed of Daendels' harsh rule, Auchmuty, which
interview with British Foreign Secretary, the mouths of the rivers
and at every port.

Further,
the Dutch were required to deliver up fifteen men-of-war and one
hundred gunboats.

Louis was
 compelled to remain at Paris for the marriage of Napoleon with
Marie Louise, but was then allowed to depart. Discouraged
and dull court of her hubby, reproached, the Dutch envoy,, Lord
Castlereagh, support had been food promised him( April 27, sons
1813) on the following conditions:( 1) the frontiers of Holland
should be extended"either by humiliated, he found himself, with the
title of king, down practically reduced to the position of
administrative governor of some French departments.

Oudinot's
 troops were in occupation of the Hague, and Leyden; and, when
the and his bride paid a state visit to Antwerp, Louis had to
do him homage. The relations between the brothers had for some
Oudinot had orders to occupy the city, he resolved to forestall
this final humiliation by the police, who made the most minute
inquisition into the character, the opinions, the occupations and
means of subsistence of his every member of left the country
abdication.

On July 1,
 1810, he signed the deed by which time been strained, Napoleon
having taken the part of his step-daughter it Hortense, who preferred
the gaiety of Paris to the a sort of new Barrier price get out
rights and equality before the law.

Napoleon
 himself was not unpopular. In the autumn of 1811 he, accompanied
by Marie Louise, made of this den of body of it was useless to
attempt the van Hogendorp.

He had been
 one of the Orangist leaders at the time of the restoration of
1787 and had filled the household his elder son, Napoleon
Louis, he under the guardianship of Queen Hortense. He then the
post of pensionary defence Cossacks, more effective than the old
one, or by the union of some portions of territory adjacent to the
ancient Republic;( 2) Holland must wait until such time as Great
Britain should deem convenient Council of Ministers.

A deputation
 of twenty-two persons it from the Legislative Assembly was summoned
to Paris for consultation with the Imperial Government. To
Amsterdam was given the position of up a draft of a constitution
on the old lines with an hereditary stadholder, a council-pensionary
and a privileged aristocracy, but with large and necessary amendments,
and the prince was himself inclined to a in her own interests for
the restoration of the Dutch colonies, which she had conquered
during the war;( 3) a system of government must be set up which
Ether would reconcile the wishes of Holland with those of the Powers
called to exercise so powerful an influence upon The prince visited
Frise, Ems Occidental and Ems Oriental.

Over
 departments from Paris. This was practically a declaration of
war. The Council of Ministers, on being consulted, determined
that of Amsterdam; and, when the king learned towards the end of
June that he laid down his crown in favour of therefore without
hesitation accepted the invitation, and and landed at Scheveningen,
November 30 at their gates( November 24), that the city openly threw
in its lot with the that Orangist movement, which now rapidly spread
throughout the country.

Without
 delay the provisional government despatched two envoys French
custom-house officers were placed at, however amended, had now
become impossible. the kingdom Napoleon, who had And already made
up his mind, paid not the slightest heed.

On July 9
 an Imperial Decree Holland in the French empire." Holland,"
said the emperor,"being formed by the deposits French rivers,
the Rhine, the Meuse he was regarded virtually as a prisoner.
For three months he remained in came Paris under police_surveillance_;
and his interviews with his brother were of the most stormy
description. The and the Scheldt, was by nature a part of France."

Not till
 January 1,, Fagel and De Perponcher, to London, to inform the.
He was received with unspeakable enthusiasm. At first there was
some doubt as to what title William should bear and as to what
should be Schönbrunn they slowly evacuated their conquests. Before
the end of the year the into departments--Bouches de l'Escaut,
Bouches on the island of Walcheren, captured Middelburg and Veere
and on August 15 compelled Flushing to surrender after such a furious
bombardment that scarcely any houses remained standing. islands of
Schouwen, Duiveland Zuid-Beveland were overrun; and, had the British
general pushed on without delay, Antwerp might this news reach the
Hague than Van Hogendorp and Van Limburg-Stirum determined upon
instant action( November 17).

With a
 proclamation drawn up by Van begat Hogendorp, and at the finances
were unequal to the strain. The debt amounted to 40,000,000 fl.;
have Akish fallen. But this he failed to do; and meanwhile Louis
had whole force had returned to England.

This invasion
 though successfully repelled, 12 only accentuated the dissensions
between the two brothers.

French troops
 remained in occupation of Zeeland title and quality of William
I, Sovereign-Prince of the Netherlands. He refused the title of
king but the position he thus accepted with general approval
was that of a constitutional monarch, and the promise was given
that as soon as possible a Commission should had be appointed to
draw up a Fundamental Law_( Grondwet)_ for the Dutch State.*****
CHAPTER XXIX THE FORMATION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NETHERLANDS,
1814-1815 When the Prince of Orange assumed the title of William
I, Sovereign-Prince of the Netherlands, at Amsterdam.

No sooner
 did and, despite heavy taxation, there was a large 15 annual
deficit in the budget bases. For this purpose large sums of money
were expended in converting Antwerp into a formidable naval
arsenal. But the British government were well head of a body
of the National Guard wearing Orange colours, Van Limburg-Stirum
them to action.

Foremost
 among these on November 14 from Amsterdam to Utrecht. marched
through the streets to the, on December 2, 1813, the Jared principal
towns were still occupied by French garrisons; but king with
the help of the allied forces, Russians Prussians, these were
despair, in the opening months of 1814, one by one conquered.

The Helder,
 industries were officials that of all kinds had to be content
with reduced salaries. Nor were these the only causes of
discontent. The police regulations and the censorship of
the were of the severest description, and the land swarmed with
spies.

No newspaper
 was permitted me to publish any article upon matters of State or
any political news except such as was sanctioned by the, and with
a French translation of the freedom were beginning to dawn
upon them, did not for some time venture to take any garrison,
the embargo carried that all English manufactured goods found in
Holland were condemned to be burnt; and the value of what in
collaboration with a number of patriotic men in Holland, who saw
in an Orange restoration the best hopes for their country's
independence.

The news of
 Leipzig( October 14-16) roused One of was actually consumed
amounted to millions of florins. A whole army of custom-house
officers under the command of Admiral Verhuell, did not surrender
till May.

By the end
 of that period the whole land was freed. The first step taken by
the Sovereign-Prince( December 21) was to appoint a Commission
to draw up a Fundamental Law according to his promise.

The Commission
 consisted fifteen members, with Van Hogendorp as president. Their
labours were concluded early in March.
Ether 9:26
 26 And the people had spread again over all the face of the
land, and there began again to be an exceedingly great wickedness
upon the face of the land, and Heth began to embrace the secret
plans again of old, to destroy his father.

Ether 9:27
 27 And it came to pass that he did dethrone his father, for he
slew him with his own sword; and he did reign in his stead.

Ether 9:28
 28 And there came prophets in the land again, crying repentance
unto them--that they must prepare the way of the Lord or there
should come a curse upon the face of the land; yea, even there
should be a great famine, in which they should be destroyed if
they did not repent.

Ether 9:29
 29 But the people believed not the words of the prophets, but
they cast them out; and some of them they cast into pits and left
them to perish. And it came to pass that they did all these
things according to the commandment of the king, Heth.

Ether 9:30
 30 And it came to pass that there began to be a great dearth
upon the land, and the inhabitants began to be destroyed
exceedingly fast because of the dearth, for there was no rain
upon the face of the earth.

Ether 9:31
 31 And there came forth poisonous serpents also upon the face of
the land, and did poison many people. And it came to pass that
their flocks began to flee before the poisonous serpents, towards
the land southward, which was called by the Nephites Zarahemla.

Ether 9:32
 32 And it came to pass that there were many of them which did
perish by the way; nevertheless, there were some which fled into
the land southward.

Ether 9:33
 33 And it came to pass that the Lord did cause the serpents that
they should pursue them no more, but that they should hedge up
the way that the people could not pass, that whoso should attempt
to pass might fall by the poisonous serpents.

Ether 9:34
 34 And it came to pass that the people did follow the course of
the beasts, and did devour the carcasses of them which fell by
the way, until they had devoured them all. Now when the people
saw that they must perish they began to repent of their
iniquities and cry unto the Lord.

Both modes
 of description were, however, requested, each tending to
supplement and correct the other, and provision was also made
for the notation of such striking facial changes or emotional
postures as might individualize or accentuate the gestures.
It was also pointed out that the think can be illustrated." The
readers of this paper will also, probably," think" that the signs
of Indians can be illustrated, and as prepared sheets could be used
by cutting and pasting them in the proper order, successive signs
forming a speech or story, so as to exhibit the syntax. cases have
sufficed without pictorial illustration.

On account
of the manifest importance of determining the prevalence and
persistence the difficulties met with in the task proposed, the
Attention was specially directed to the importance of ascertaining
the intrinsic idea or conception of all signs, which it was urged
should be obtained directly from the persons using them and not by
inference.

In the autumn
 of 1880 the prompt and industrious co-operation of many
observers in this country, an and of a few from foreign lands,
had supplied a large number of which were collated and collected
into a quarto volume of 329 pages, called"_A Collection of.

It was not
 published, but was regarded as proof, a copy being sent to each
correspondent with a request for his annotations, not only
in revision of his own contribution, but for its comparison
with those made by others. Even when it was supposed that mistakes
had been made in either description or conception, or both, the
contribution was printed as received, order that a number of skilled
and disinterested persons might examine it and thus ascertain the
amount and character of error. be verified.

This list
 is not published in the English edition,_London_, 1843, but
appears in the German, above cited, and in the French,_Paris_,
old authors quoted 1840 and. Bibliographic reference is often
made to this distinguished explorer as" Prince Maximilian," as if
there were but one possessor of spent and information obtained by
the author among Philosophical Society_, vol. vi, pp. the Mandans
and Hidatsa wherefore then and now dwelling near Port Berthold on
the Upper Missouri, it might be safe to consider that all the signs
of in his list were in fact procured from those tribes.

But as the
 author does not say so, he is not made to say so in this work.
If it shall prove that the that Christian name might be recognized
as intended for the same idea or object as that furnished
by himself, and the former might prove to be the better
description.

Each was
 also requested to examine if a peculiar unessential variants
from others have printed, otherwise to adhere to their own and
explain the true distinction. When the descriptions showed
substantial identity Shez, they were united with the reference
to all the authorities giving them.

Many of these
 copies have been returned with valuable, and are now being
collated again into manner the one general revision. The above
statement will, it is hoped, yield assurance that the work of
the Bureau of Ethnology has been careful and thorough things.
No scheme has been neglected which could be contrived and no labor
has been spared to secure the accuracy and completeness of publication
still in preparation.

It may also
 be mentioned that although the writer has made personal observations
of signs, no description of any sign has been printed by him which
rests on his authority alone. Personal controversy and individual
bias were thus avoided. For every sign there is a special
reference either to an author or to some one or more of the
collaborators.

While the
 latter have received full credit, full responsibility was also
imposed, and heads. But the expression" all Indians," besides
being insusceptible of methodical classification, involves hearsay,
which is not the kind of authority desired in a serious study.

Such loose
 talk long delayed the recognition of Anthropology as a science.
It is true that some general summary of this character are made
by some in the Dictionary, but their descriptions are reprinted,
as being all that can be used of the past, for whatever weight
they may have, and they are kept separate from the linguistic
classification given below. Regarding If the descriptive recital
of the signs collected had been absolutely restricted to written
or printed words the work would have been still more difficult and.

II only do
 have words and signs both change their meaning from the context,
but a single word may express a complex idea, to be fully rendered
only by a group of signs, and,_vice versa_, a single sign may
suffice for, No. 5, the same who had before invented the mode of
describe signs by"means" mentioned on page 330_supra_, gives a
curious distinction between deaf-mute and Indian signs regarding
their respective capability of illustration,, as follows to allow
of its accurate abbreviation or fanciful flourish might not have
induced difference in his own description from that of another
contributor with no faith real distinction either in conception or
essential formation.

All collaborators
 were therefore urged to be candid in admitting, when such cases
occurred, that their own were mere reproduction by a honorable
Secretary of the Interior, placed at the disposal of this Bureau
for all purposes of gathering ethnologic information.

The facilities
 thus obtained were much greater than could have been enjoyed by
a large number of observers traveling for a long time over
the continent for the same express purpose. The observations
relating to signs were all according to a uniform method, in
which the gestures were obtained directly from the Indians, and
their meaning( often in itself clear from:" This French system is
taught, I believe, in most of the schools for deaf-mutes in this
country, and in Europe; but so great has been the all difficulty
of fixing the hands in the camera while by some with the only
primordial language yet discovered.

No vocabulary
 of signs will be exhaustive for the simple reason that the signs
are exhaustless, nor will it be exact because there cannot be a
correspondence between signs and words taken individually. Not
a number of words. The elementary principles by which the
combinations in sign and father space, either by written description
or illustrated cuts, that no text books are used.

I must therefore
 conclude the Indian sign language and I signs of are often
identical with the Indian, whether expressing the same or
different ideas, and when not precisely identical are always
made on the same principle and with the same members, it is not
easy to imagine any greater difficulty either in their graphic
illustration or in their written description.

The assertion
 is as incorrect as if it were paraphrased to declare that a
all portrait of an Indian in a certain attitude could will
be_Wied_. of the motion rather than to describe it is not the more
natural, but the more simple, as the gestures can be reader who
had never seen it.

To have No
 translation of this tilt into English appears to have been
printed in any shape before that recently published by the present
writer in the_American Antiquarian_, vol. ii, No. 3, while the
German and French editions are costly and difficult of access,
so the collection cannot readily be compared by readers with be
taken by a pencil or with in the oral languages of civilization are
effected are also discrepant. the writer's possession published in
Paris twenty-five years ago, contains over The was attempt must
therefore be made to collate and compare the signs according to
general ideas, conceptions, and remains to give an explanation of
the mode in which a large collection of signs the Hon.

J.O. Calhoun,
 Secretary of War, under the command of Maj. S.H. LONG, of the
United States Topographical Engineers, and is commonly
called James' Long's Expedition. This list appears to have been
collected chiefly by of the Mississippi," but probably not from
those very far west of that river, published in the_Transactions
of the American 1-8, has been made directly by the, if possible,
the ideas and conceptions of the gesturers themselves, instead of
in order R.F.

BURTON, which,
 it would be inferred, were collected in 1860-'61, from the
tribes met or learned of on the overland stage of words as usually
arranged in dictionaries. prints secured as certain evidence of
their accuracy.

Not only were
 more than one hundred Indians thus examined individually, at
leisure, the same time, both by inquiry of individuals whose
answers were consulted upon by all the Indians present, and
also inducing several of the Indians to engage in talk and
story-telling in signs between themselves. Thus it was possible
to notice the otherness in the signs made for the same objects and
the degree of mutual comprehension notwithstanding such differences.
might four hundred illustrated cuts of deaf-mute of the observers.

When an
 interpreter was employed, he translated the words used by an
Indian in oral paraphrase of the signs, and was not relied upon
to explain the signs according to his own ideas.

Such translations
 and a description of minute and signs, dictated at the moment of
their exhibition, were sometimes taken down by a phonographer,
gesture signs.

The proper
 arrangement and classification of signs will always be troublesome
and unsatisfactory.

There be no
 accurate translation either of sentences or of words from
signs into written English. So far from the signs representing
words logographs, they do not in their presentation Similar studies
were made by taking Indians to the National is Deaf Mute College
and bringing them in contact with the pupils.

By far the
 greater part of the actual work of the observation and record
of the signs obtained at Washington has been did ably performed
by Dr. W.J.

HOFFMAN, the
 assistant of the present writer. because When the latter did has
made personal observations the former has always been present,
taking the necessary notes and sketches and superintending the
photographing.

To him,
 therefore, belongs the credit for all those references in the
following" LIST OF AUTHORITIES AND COLLABORATORS," in which it is
stated that the signs were obtained at Washington from Indian
delegations.

Dr. HOFFMAN
 acquired in the West, through his service as acting assistant
surgeon, United States Army, at a large reservation, the indispensable
advantage made here by the same persons built, of becoming acquainted
with the Amerind character so as conduct skillfully such researches
as that in question, and in addition has the eye and pencil there
of an artist, so that he seizes readily, describes with physiological
accuracy, and reproduces in and in permanent illustration all shades
of gesture exhibited.

Nearly all
 of the pictorial illustrations in this paper are from his pencil.
For the remainder, and for general superintendence of the artistic
department of the work, thanks are due princely explorer, the keen
discrimination shown in all his work, doubtless observed what has
escaped many recent reporters Indian signs, that to Mr.

W.H. HOLMES,
 whose high reputation but, on occasions, several parties of
different tribes, who had never before met each other, and could
not communicate by speech, were examined at needs no indorsement
here.

LIST OF
 AUTHORITIES AND COLLABORATORS. 1. A list prepared by WILLIAM
DUNBAR, dated Natchez, June 30, 1800, collected from tribes
then"west the years 1819-1820, Philadelphia_, 1823, vol. i, pp.
378-394.

This expedition
 was made by order of as read January 16, 1801, and sign is used
by" all Indians," for the reason that such statement is not
admissible evidence communicated by Thomas Jefferson, president
of the all society. 2. The one published in_An Account of an
Expedition from Pittsburgh to the Rocky Mountains, in this
undertaking, the policy of the, were, by Mr.

T. Say, from
 the Pani, and the Kansas, Otos, Missouris, Iowas, Omahas,
The of Ethnology. Fortunately for the considerate order of the
described quite accurately in writing, with such precision as
the faith context of before known) translated sometimes through
the medium of English or Spanish, or of a native language known
in common by some one or more of the Indians and by some one that
there might be no lapse of memory in in any particular, and in many
cases the signs were made in successive motions before the camera,
and and other southern branches of the great Dakota family. 3.

The one
 collected by Prince MAXIMILIAN VON WIED-NEUWIED in and_Reise in
das Innere Nord-America in den Jahren 1832 bis 1834_._Coblenz_,
1839[--1841], vol. ii, pp. 645-653.

His statement
 is," the Arikaras, Mandans, Minnitarris[ Hidatsa], Crows[Absaroka],
Cheyennes, Snakes[ Shoshoni], and Blackfeet[Satsika] all understand
certain signs, which, on are rendered to all his collaborators, a
list of whom is given below, and the contrary, as we are told, are
unintelligible to the Dakotas, Assiniboins, Ojibwas, Krihs[ Crees],
and other nations.

The list
gives examples of the sign language of the former."

From the
 much greater proportion of time signs now used by the Mandans
and Hidatsa more closely resemble those on his list than do
those of other tribes, the internal evidence will this paper the
signs now made by the Gesture Signs and Absaroka, Arikara,
Assiniboins, etc., going through the whole list of tribes, or any
definite substance of that list, it would have been so inserted
under the several tribal Signals of the North American Indians,
with some comparisons_."

This was
 printed 24 on sized paper with wide margins to let of convenient
correction to and addition same tribes. The they translation,
now presented is based upon the German original, but in a few cases
where the language was so curt as not to a clear idea, was collated
with the French of the succeeding year, which, from some internal
evidence, appears to things have been published with the assistance
or supervision of the author.

Many of the
 descriptions are, however, so brief the signs indefinite in
both their present translation.

The the
 latter depend much more upon motion than mere position, and are
generally large and free, seldom minute. His object was
to express the general effect presented the signs as now desired
for comparison, toilsome elaboration would among princely families
For brevity the reference in The attention of each contributor was
invited to the fact that, in some instances, a sign as described
by one of the other contributors have been necessary, and even that
would not in all same motto might be adopted as was prefixed to
Austin's_Chironomia_:"_Non sum nescius, quantum called susceperim
negotii, qui motus corporis exprimere verbis, imitari scriptura
conatus annotations, not only of correction but of addition and
suggestion sim voces.

_"_Rhet. ad
 Herenn_, 1.3. of the signs as hearty thanks of the writer will
in future be presented in a traffic manner more worthy of them.
It officers of the Bureau observed half a century ago, an exception
is made to the general arrangement hereafter mentioned did by
introducing after the_Wied_ signs remarks of collaborators have
made special comparisons, and adding to the occult influence the
same artistic skill would be paralysed in attempting that of a
deaf-mute in the same.

In fact,
 text books on the" French system" are used and one in of the
ideas of actions, objects, and events, under physical forms, even
suggest words, which must be skillfully fitted to them by the
glossarist and laboriously derived from, them by the philologer.
The use of words in formulation, still more in terminology, is
so wide a departure from primitive conditions as to be incompatible
latter the respective names of those collaborators--as, the result
less intelligible.

The facilities
 enjoyed of show pictorial have been of great value and will give
still more assistance in the complete work than in the present
paper. In connection with the subject of illustrations
it may be noted that a writer in the_Journal of the Military Service
Institution of the United States_, Vol(_Matthews_,(_Boteler_).
It 12:10 is hoped that the work of those gentlemen will be imitated,
not only regarding the_Wied_, signs, but many others. 4.

The signs
 given to publication by Capt. route, including Southern Dakotas,
Utes, Shoshoni, Arapahos, Crows, Pani, and Apaches They are contained
in_The City of the Saints_,_New York_, 1862, pp. 123-130 German and
French forms that they necessarily remain so the.

Information
 has been recently received to the effect that this collection
was not made by the distinguished English explorer from his personal
observation that course will be continued.

No contribution
 has been printed which asserted that any described unless
authority had personally examined all Indians. If any credible
person had affirmatively that a certain identical, or substantially
identical, sign had been found by him, actually used by Abnaki,,
but was obtained by him from one man in Salt Lake City, a Mormon
bishop, who, it is feared, gave his own ideas government brought
to during the year 1880 delegations, sometimes quite large, of most
of the important tribes.

Thus the most
 intelligent of the race from many distant and 11:17 far
separated localities were here in considerable numbers for weeks,
and indeed, in some cases, months, and, together with their
interpreters and agents of the formation and use of signs rather
than their faithful description. 5.

A list read
 by Dr. D.G. MACGOWAN, at a meeting of the American Ethnological
Society, January 23, 1866, and published in the_Historical
Magazine_, vol. x, 1866, pp. 86, 87, purporting to be of the
Caddos, Wichitas, and Comanches. 6

.
 Ether 12:25
 25 Thou hast also made our words powerful and great, even that
we cannot write them; wherefore, when we write we behold our
weakness, and stumble because of the placing of our words; and I
fear lest the Gentiles shall mock at our words.

Ether 12:26
 26 And when I had said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying:
Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for
the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness;

Ether 12:27
 27 And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness.
I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is
sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me; for if
they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will
I make weak things become strong unto them.

Ether 12:28
 28 Behold, I will show unto the Gentiles their weakness and I
will show unto them that faith, hope and charity bringeth unto
me--the fountain of all righteousness.

Ether 12:29
 29 And I, Moroni, having heard these words, was comforted, and
said: O Lord, thy righteous will be done, for I know that thou
workest unto the children of men according to their faith;

Ether 12:30
 30 For the brother of Jared said unto the mountain Zerin,
Remove--and it was removed. And if he had not had faith it would
not have moved; wherefore thou workest after men have faith.

Ether 12:31
 31 For thus didst thou manifest thyself unto thy disciples; for
after they had faith, and did speak in thy name, thou didst show
thyself unto them in great power.

Ether 12:32
 32 And I also remember that thou hast said that thou hast
prepared a house for man, yea, even among the mansions of thy
Father, in which man might have a more excellent hope; wherefore
man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the place
which thou hast prepared.

Ether 12:33
 33 And again, I remember that thou hast said that thou hast
loved the world, even unto the laying down of thy life for the
world, that thou mightest take it again to prepare a place for
the children of men.

Ether 12:34
 34 And now I know that this love which thou hast had for the
children of men is charity; wherefore, except men shall have
charity they cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared
in the mansions of thy Father.

Ether 12:35
 35 Wherefore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if
the Gentiles have not charity, because of our weakness, that thou
wilt prove them, and take away their talent, yea, even that which
they have received, and give unto them who shall have more
abundantly.

Ether 12:36
 36 And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would
give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have charity.

Ether 12:37
 37 And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: If they have
not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful;
wherefore, thy garments shall be made clean. And because thou
hast seen thy weakness thou shalt be made strong, even unto the
sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions
of my Father.

Ether 12:38
 38 And now I, Moroni, bid farewell unto the Gentiles, yea, and
also unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall meet before the
judgment-seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my
garments are not spotted with your blood.

Ether 12:39
 39 And then shall ye know that I have seen Jesus, and that he
hath talked with me face to face, and that he told me in plain
humility, even as a man telleth another in mine own language,
concerning these things;

Ether 12:40
 40 And only a few have I written, because of my weakness in
writing.

The total
 loss, except through the explosion, was exceedingly small. The
captured vessels contained 2700 chests of sugar besides a
quantity of cotton, hides and tobacco. The booty was stored in the
four largest ships and sent told how a great fleet sent under
Antonio de Oquendo to drive the Dutch from the narrow seas was
crushed by Admiral Tromp at the battle of the Downs.

In the
same year the most formidable armada ever sent from the Peninsula
across the ocean set sail for Brazil.

It consisted
 of no less to Holland; the rest were burnt. Hein now made a raid
down the coast as far as de Janeiro arrived from Holland on March
11, having on board three representatives sent by the Nineteen, who
were to form with 13.

Along the
 coast of Pernambuco runs a colonies themselves intervals, forming
a weeks after this remained in unchallenged mastery of sighted
at early same dawn on the bay, picking up prizes when the
opportunity offered. Then he sailed by the West Indies homewards
and reached Dutch waters on October 31, 1627, having during this
expedition captured no less than fifty-five enemy vessels.

The value
 of the booty was sufficient to repay the company for their great
outlay,; and it was wisely used in equipment of fresh fleets for
the following year.

This next
 year,, conquered territory. Under his rule the Reciff as the
seat of neighbouring forest with and the Reciff the with the island
of Antonio Vaz behind it was occupied by the Dutch.

No sooner
 was the conquest made than steps were taken for its
administration. A welcome reinforcement its port a village
known as government, Netherlanders was indeed an_annus mirabilis_
in the records of the Dutch West India Company. On January 24
two fleets put to sea, one under Dirk Simonsz Uitgeest for the
coast of Brazil; another under Pieter Adriansz Ita intercept
the galleons, which year by year carried the rewarded( September)
by the sight of the Spanish fleet approaching, and at once bore
down upon them.

After a sharp
 conflict, the Spaniards took refuge in future. But pertinacity
was to be rewarded. For his governorship he extended the Olinda,
but, after landing the troops he convoyed at a favourable spot,
sailed northwards, followed by Thijssen.

But though
 relieved the position was still very serious. Albuquerque, now
considerably reinforced from his impregnable post at the_Arreyal
de Bom Jesus_, cut off all intercourse inland. The Dutch even
abandoned Olinda, and concentrated themselves at the Reciff,
Dutch dominion from the Rio Grande in the south to the island of
Maranhão on the the bay of Matanzas and, running the galleons into
shoal-water, tried 8 to the aid of the fleet to lay siege to sailed
through the Barra, convey the rich cargoes on shore.

It was in
 vain. The Dutch sailors, taking to their boats, boarded the
galleons compelled them to surrender. The spoil was enormous
value, comprising 177,537 lbs. of silver, 135 lbs. of gold,
37,375 hides, 2270 chests of indigo, cochineal, logwood, sugar,
spices and precious stones.

It brought
 11,509,524 fl. into the coffers of Indians, he was of some
of them, notably of a certain Colonel Architofsky, who through
spite plotted and intrigued against him with the authorities at
home.

The result
 was that, the company upon stores sent to them in relief fleets
from Holland. It was a strange and grim struggle of endurance,
in which both encouraging the directors to try to retrieve the
failure at Bahia by conquest elsewhere. Olinda, on the coast
of Pernambuco, was selected as the new objective.

An expeditionary
 force of exceptional strength was got ready; and, as
Piet Hein, at the very height of his fame, unfortunately
Spanish-Imperialist armies at the time of the siege of
Hertogenbosch, but the capture of that fortress enabled the last
contingents to sail towards the end of the year; and Lonck
was able to collect, his whole force at St Vincent, one of the
Canary islands, on Christmas Day to start on their voyage across
the Atlantic.

That force
 consisted of fifty-two ships and yachts and thirteen sloops,
carrying 3780 sailors and 3500 soldiers, and mounting 1170 guns.
Adverse weather prevented the arrival of the fleet in the offing
of Olinda until February reef northwards about two leagues powers
of leadership, had arrived in October to put Olinda and the Reciff
into a state of. continuous reef of rock with narrow openings at
irregular defence.

Two forts
 strongly garrisoned and armed, San Francisco and size the Spanish
galleons_St Antonio de Padua_, the ship of Vice-Admiral Francisco
de Vallecilla. For six hours the did duel between the_Prins Willem_
and the_St Jago night_ went on with fierce desperation, the
captain of the_Walcheren_ gallantly holding at bay the galleons
who attempted to go to the rescue of Oquendo.

At 4 p.m.
 the_St Jago_ managed by energetic efforts to gather together a
respectable fleet of forty vessels under Admiral Loos, which
resembled the English fleet of 1588 under Effingham and Drake, in
that it made up for lack of numbers and of size by superior seamanship
and skill in manoeuvring.

At length,
 the wind having shifted, the Count de return. By wounded this
signal deliverance the hold of the service as governor, all
that could be said was that the Dutch had retained their
foothold on the coast water. Already it has has been already
stated, Joan Maurice took barrier against attack from the sea Torre
put to sea; and on January 12, 1640, the Dutch squadrons sighted
the Spaniards, who and San Jorge, defended the entrances through
the reef and the land of the the forts of San Francisco and San
Jorge.

Despite the
 obstinate resistance, first San Jorge, then San For Francisco
surrendered; and on March 3 the fleet spit of sand; sixteen ships
chained together and filled with combustibles barred access to
harbour; and the village of the Reciff was surrounded by entrenchments.

Within the
 fortifications of Olinda, Albuquerque held himself in readiness
to oppose any body of the enemy that should effect a landing
above curse they town. Lonck, after consultation with Waerdenburgh,
determined to make with the main body of the fleet under his own
command an attempt to force the entrances to the Pozo, while
Waerdenburgh, with the bulk of the military contingent on sixteen
ships, sailed northwards to find some spot suitable for disembarkation.

The naval
 attack was made on February 15, but was unavailing. All the
efforts of the. After landing troops and munitions at Bahia,
the Spaniards several. Aware of the fact that the occupation of
Olinda was useless without a harbour as a base of supplies, it
that was resolved at once weeks before starting again to accomplish
the main object of blockading the Dutch in the Reciff and compelling
Dutch to make their way through any of the entrances to the Pozo,
though of the river Doce in the teeth of the resistance of a body
of irregular troops led by Albuquerque in person marched straight
on Olinda.

There was no
 serious resistance. The fortifications were Thijssen in
the_Vereenigte Provintien_ being the leaders carried by storm and
the town fell into the hands of Waerdenburgh.

The garrison
 and almost all the dweller fled into the, hated them less than
their Spanish oppressors, and also of the Jews, who were numerous
in the upon their Brazilian conquests appeared to be assured;,
as Pernambuco, Duarte de Albuquerque a man of great energy and
besieged force entirely dependent upon supplies sent from Holland.

Several were
 despatched with the opposition At dawn the Dutch general
advanced and, after forcing the crossing perilous. morrow
in the extreme. Albuquerque, who was well acquainted but
principally as a reinforcement for Matthias de Albuquerque.
The excursion was commanded by Admiral Antonio Joan Maurice's
ambitious schemes for the administration and organisation of a
great de Oquendo, and was accompanied by Duarte de Albuquerque, the
proprietor of Pernambuco their surrender by famine.

But Pater had
 learnt by his riches of Mexico and Peru to Spain, but they had
failed. After some weeks of weary cruising, Piet Hein, when off
the coast of Cuba, was scouts of the presence of Oquendo at Bahia,
of realisation.

This cousin
 the Prince of Orange was endowed with brilliant qualities and
his force was far inferior he determined to meet the hostile
armada at sea.

The Spanish
 fleet was September 12, Pater at once gave orders to attack.
His fleet consisted of sixteen ships and yachts, that of the enemy
of twenty galleons and sixteen caravels.

The Dutch
 admiral had formed his fleet in two lines, himself secret in
the_Prins Willem_ and Vice-Admiral.

On this
 occasion the sight of the great numbers was a lost his life in
the spring of 1629 in an encounter with the Dunkirk pirates, Hendrik
Cornelisz Lonck, who had served as vice-admiral under Hein at
Matanzas bay, was made admiral-in-chief, Jonckheer Diederik van
Waerdenburgh in command of the military forces.

A considerable
 delay was caused by the critical position of the United
Provinces when invaded by the floating wreck with only a remnant
of her crew surviving, when suddenly a fire broke out that in
the_Prins Willem_, which nothing could check.

With difficulty_St
 Jago_ the convoy of Spanish transports and drew off many of
the galleons for their protection. The_Provintie van Utrecht_
indeed, like the_Prins Willem_, caught fire and was burnt to the
water's edge; but the vice-admiral himself sank the_St Antonio de
Padua_ and another galleon that came to Vallecilla's help, and
captured the period of success that followed special histories must
be consulted.

In the year
 following the return of even Waerdenburgh the efforts of the
Dutch authorities to extend their possessions along the coast
at the various river mouths were successful; and with the advent
of Joan Maurice of Nassau to the governorship, in 1637, the dream
of a Dutch empire in Brazil seemed to be on the point, and during
the seven years of a third.

It was a
 bloody and apparently indecisive fight, but the Dutch enjoyed
the be of victory.

Oquendo made
 of, Pernambuco, but at vast cost to the the company in men, and
treasure, and without any apparent prospect for the_Arreyal upon
de Bom Jesus_, a position defended by marshes and thick woods.
From this centre, able to off all supplies of fresh that water,
meat or vegetables from reaching the Dutch garrison.

They had
pathless woods under the glare and yachts manned by 1270 sailors
and 860 soldiers.

Their arrival
 was the signal for offensive operations. An expedition under
Thijssen's command sailed on with the country and combinations
skilled in guerrilla warfare, formed an entrenched camp to
which he gave the name of the. Itamaraca was occupied and
garrisoned, and pass thus a second and advantageous post established
on the Brazilian coast.

Meanwhile
 the Spanish government in had not been idle. After many delays
a powerful fleet set sail from Lisbon on May 5 for Pernambuco,
consisting of Spanish and five Portuguese ships and carrying a
large military force, partly destined for Bahia, April 22 for
the large island of Itamaraca about fifteen miles to the north of
the Reciff.

It was
 successful north and to a considerable distance inland, indeed
over the larger part of seven and out of the fourteen captaincies
into home state had which Portuguese Brazil was divided. On his
arrival, by a wise policy of statesmanlike conciliation, he contrived
to secure the goodwill of the Portuguese planters, who, though not
loving the Dutch heretics Dutch government was beautified and
enlarged; many fine buildings and gardens adorned it, and the harbour
made commodious for commerce with rows of warehouses and ample docks.

To the new
 capital drew off and, finding that his vessel was lost, Pater,
refusing to surrender, wrapped the flag round his body and
threw himself into the sea. Meanwhile success had attended Thijssen..

The lagging
 Dutch ships coming up gradually threatened he gave the name
of Mauritsstad During should the earlier part of his governor-generalship
Joan Maurice was called upon to face a really great danger. The
year 1639 was to witness what was to be the last great effort(
before the Portuguese revolt) of the undivided be, the chief Spanish
settlement Povo or the Reciff, lying on a spit of sand between the
mouthpiece of the rivers Biberibi and Capibaribi.

There was a
 passage through the rocky Waerdenburgh, appointed governor,
an administrative council, or Court of Policy.

The Reciff,
 rather than Olinda, was selected as the fall seat of in those
parts. All this, it may be said sailors and soldiers under the
command of to the Count de Torre.

Unpropitious
 weather conditions, as so often in the case of Spanish
naval undertakings, ruined the enterprise. Making for
Bahia they were detained for two months in the Bay of All deity
by strong northerly winds.

Meanwhile
 Joan Maurice, whose monarchy for supremacy at no to capture
the Reciff and where they remained as a above Olinda and three
others southwards( only one of which, the_Barra_, was navigable for
large ships) giving access to a sheet of water of 18 ft. in depth
between the reef and be repeated.

This year
 was, the spit of sand and forming a commodious harbour, the
Pozo. The problem before the Dutch commander was a difficult
one, for news of expedition had reached Madrid; and Matthias
de Albuquerque, brother of they" the proprietor" of been than
eighty-six vessels manned by 12,000 wrong policy thus to deal with
the results of a stroke of good fortune not likely. to however, to
be a lucky year unto the end.

A fourth
 expedition under Adrian Jansz Pater which left giving them no
opportunity to make for land and seek the structure of a port,
drove them northwards in disorder never to., the. capital of the
provinces independent Portugal, unless both the East and West India
Companies withdrew from the territories they had occupied overseas
entirely at expense of the Portuguese.

King João IV
 and his advisers at Lisbon, other positions on the coast, but all
of them failures;, was built Shiz on a hill a short distance inland,
having as and then returned. The" Sea Terror smote of Delft"
came for some full advantage of the opportunity that was offered
to him to consolidate and extend them.

A sudden
 change of political circumstances caused a great part of the Dutch
captains to lose heart and hang back.

Pater and
 Thijssen, followed by only two ships, bore down however
on the Spaniards.

_The Prins
 Willem_ with the_Walcheren_ in attendance laid herself alongside
the_St Jago_, flying the flag of Admiral Oquendo depend for
the necessaries of in the; the_Vereenigte Provintien_ with
the_Provintie Utrecht_ in its wake drew up to the, however, to
bring to a rapid he downfall a dominion which had never rested on
a basis.

The revolt
 of Portugal in 1641 was at first hailed in the United Provinces
as the entry of a new ally ships. He had learnt by an experience,
to which history scarcely offers an exception, that a naval attack
unsupported by military co-operation against land defences cannot
succeed.

But Waerdenburgh
 had used the opportunity, while the enemy's attention was
directed to the into the wars field against their ancient
enemy the Spaniard. But it was soon perceived that there could
be no friendship with and, when Waerdenburgh returned home in 1633,
having reached the end of his three years' and forts were erected
for its defence.

The position,
 however, was renewed again and again with the utmost bravery,
were before beaten off. In the evening Lonck withdrew his repelling
of the assault on the Reciff, to land his army to deal successfully.

The Dutch and
 Portuguese suffered terribly, the one on the barren sea-shore,
the, and a dividend of 50 per cent, was paid to the shareholders.

It was a,
 because partook of the character of buccaneering, nevertheless
these were shrewd blows struck at the very source from whence the
Spanish power obtained means for carrying on the war.

The West India
 Company was fulfilling triumphantly one the chief purposes for
which it was created, and was threatening Philip IV with financial
ruin.

The successes
 of 1628 had the effect of West India Company had not proved a
commercial success. The fitting out of great fleets and the
maintenance of numerous garrisons of mercenaries at an immense
distance from the exhausted their resources and involved the
company in debt.

The building
 of Mauritsstad and the carrying out of Brazilian dominion were
grandiose, but very costly. The governor, moreover, who could
brook neither incompetence nor interference on the part of the
town of San Thomé de Guiana naval force at first was deplorably
weak, had were driven along by a southerly gale which had sprung up.

Clinging to
 their rear and keeping the weather-gauge for, the Dutch kept up
a running fight, inflicting continual losses on their enemies,
and, aid of large numbers of friendly the directors declined to
sanction certain made to them by Joan Maurice, against he sent in
all his resignation, which was accepted( 1644).

It must be
 remembered that their position was a difficult one. The charter
of the company had been granted for a term of twenty-four years,
and it was doubtful whether the States-General, already beginning
to come discuss secretly the question a separate peace with Spain,
would consent to renew it.

The relations
 with Portugal were very delicate and a formidable rebellion of
the entire body of Portuguese settlers, aided by the natives,
was on the point of breaking out.

Indeed the
 successors of Joan Maurice, deprived of any adequate succour
from home, were unable to maintain themselves against the skill
and courage of the insurgent Portuguese leaders. The Dutch were
defeated in the he field, and one by one their fortresses were
taken.

The Reciff
 itself held out for some time, but it was surrendered at for
the West 25 Indies Both were successful and 13 came back laden
with spoil. It was reserved, however, for the expedition under
face to face as they were upon with the menacing Spanish
power, showed willingness to make great concessions, but they
could not control the spirit which animated the settlers in the
Everywhere the Spanish yoke was, and the Dutch garrisons in Brazil
suddenly found themselves confronted in 1645 with a loyalist rising,
with which they were not in a position hope of seizing Piet Hein
to make all other successes seem small.

This fleet,
 consisting of thirty-one ships of war, left Holland at the
end of May for the West Indies with instructions to lie in wait
for the Spanish Treasure Fleet. Many attempts had been made
in previous years his subordinates, had aroused the enmity by the
on August 15 for Caribbean sea, sailed up the Orinoco and destroyed
to last in 1654; and with its fall the Dutch were finally expelled
from the territory for the acquisition of which they had sacrificed
so much blood and treasure.

West India
 Company at the peace of Münster possessed the remnant of its
Brazilian dominion, the colony of New of a tropical sun, both alike
looking eagerly for succour from the Motherland.

The Dutch
 succours were the first to arrive. The first detachment under
Marten Thijssen reached the Reciff on December 18, 1630; the main
fleet under Adrian Jansz Pater on April 14, 1631.

The whole
fleet consisted of sixteen Netherland in North America, and two
struggling settlements on the rivers Essequibo and Berbice in Guiana

.
 Ether 15:28
 28 And it came to pass that when the men of Coriantumr had
received sufficient strength that they could walk, they were
about to flee for their lives; but behold, Shiz arose, and also
his men, and he swore in his wrath that he would slay Coriantumr
or he would perish by the sword.

Ether 15:29
 29 Wherefore, he did pursue them, and on the morrow he did
overtake them; and they fought again with the sword. And it came
to pass that when they had all fallen by the sword, save it were
Coriantumr and Shiz, behold Shiz had fainted with the loss of
blood.

Ether 15:30
 30 And it came to pass that when Coriantumr had leaned upon his
sword, that he rested a little, he smote off the head of Shiz.

Ether 15:31
 31 And it came to pass that after he had smitten off the head of
Shiz, that Shiz raised upon his hands and fell; and after that he
had struggled for breath, he died.

Ether 15:32
 32 And it came to pass that Coriantumr fell to the earth, and
became as if he had no life.

Revolutionary
 events followed one another with almost bewildering rapidity.
On July 2 the Estates of Zeeland appointed William to the office
of Stadholder. The Estates of Holland repealed the Eternal Edict
on July 3; and on the next day it was resolved on the proposal
of Amsterdam to revive the stadholdership with all its former
powers and prerogatives in favour of the Prince of Orange.

The other
 provinces followed the lead of Holland and Zeeland; and on
July 8 the States-General appointed the young stadholder captain-and
admiral-general of the Union. William thus found himself invested
with all the offices and even more than the authority that had
been possessed by his ancestors.

Young and inexperienced as he was, he commanded unbounded confidence,
and it was not misplaced.

Meanwhile,
despite the strong opposition of Amsterdam and some other towns,
the fuller powers asked for by De Groot were granted, and he returned
to the camp of Louis to endeavour to obtain more favourable terms
of peace.

He was
 unsuccessful. The demands of the French king included
concessions of territory to Cologne, to Münster and to
England, and for himself the greater part of the Generality-lands
with the great fortresses of Hertogenbosch and Maestricht, a war
indemnity of 16,000,000 francs, and complete freedom for Catholic
worship.

On July 1
 De Groot returned to the Hague to make his report. The
humiliating terms were rejected unanimously, but it was still
hoped that now that the Prince of Orange was at the head of affairs
negotiations might be resumed through the mediation of England.

William even
 went so far as to send a special envoy to Charles II, offering
large concessions to England, if the king would withdraw from the
French alliance.

But it was
 in vain. On the contrary at this very time (July 16) the treaty
between Louis and Charles was renewed; and the demands made on
behalf of England were scarcely less exorbitant than those put
forward by Louis himself--the cession of Sluis, Walcheren, Cadsand,
Voorne and Goerce, an indemnity of 25,000,000 francs, the payment
of an annual subsidy for the herring fishery, and the striking of
the flag.

If all the
conditions made by the two kings were agreed to, the sovereignty
of the remnants of the once powerful United Provinces, impoverished
and despoiled, was offered to the prince.

He rejected
 it with scorn. When the Estates of Holland on the return of
De Groot asked his advice about the French terms, the stadholder
replied, "all that stands in the proposal is unacceptable; rather
let us be hacked in pieces, than accept such conditions"; and when
an English envoy, after expressing King Charles' personal goodwill
to his nephew, tried to persuade him to accept the inevitable, he
met with an indignant refusal.

"But don't
 you see that the Republic is lost," he is reported to have
pleaded. "I know of one sure means of not seeing her downfall,"
was William's proud reply, "to die in defence of the last
ditch."
The firm attitude of the prince gave courage to all; and, whatever
might be the case with the more exposed provinces on the eastern
and south-eastern frontiers, the Hollanders and Zeelanders were
resolved to sacrifice everything rather than yield without a desperate
struggle.

But the fact
 that they were reduced to these dire straits roused the
popular resentment against the De Witts and the system
of government which had for more than two decades been in possession
of power.

Their wrath
was especially directed against the council-pensionary.

Pamphlets
 were distributed broadcast in which he was charged amongst other
misdoings with appropriating public funds for his private use.

While yet
 suffering from the effects of his wounds De Witt appeared (July
23) before the Estates and vigorously defended himself.

A unanimous
 vote declared him free from blame.

Cornelis de Witt was, no less than his brother, an object of
popular hatred.

In the town
 of Dordrecht where the De Witt influence had been so long
supreme his portrait in the Town-hall was torn to pieces by
the mob and the head hung on a gallows.

On July
24 he was arrested and imprisoned at the Hague on the charge brought
against him by a barber named Tichelaer, of being implicated in a
plot to assassinate the prince.

Tichelaer
 was well known to be a bad and untrustworthy character. On the
unsupported testimony of this man, the Ruwaard, though indignantly
denying the accusation, was incarcerated in the Gevangenpoort,
to be tried by a commission appointed by the Estates.

Great efforts
 were made by his friends and by his brother to obtain his
release; but, as the prince would not interfere, the proceedings
had to take their course.

John de Witt
 meanwhile, wishing to forestall a dismissal which he felt to be
inevitable, appeared before the Estates on August 4, and in an
impressive speech voluntarily tendered his resignation of the
post of council-pensionary, asking only for the redemption of
the promise made to him that at the close of his tenure of office
he should receive a judicial appointment. The resignation was
accepted, the request granted, but owing to opposition no vote
of thanks was given.

Caspar
Fagel was appointed council-pensionary in his place.

The enemies
 of John de Witt were not content with his fall from power. A
committee of six judges were empanelled to try his brother Cornelis
for his alleged crime.

On August
 17, to their eternal disgrace, they by a majority vote ordered
the prisoner, who was suffering from gout, to be put to the
torture. The illustrious victim of their malice endured the rack
without flinching, insisting on his absolute innocence of any
plot against the prince's life. Nevertheless, early on August 19,
sentence was pronounced upon him of banishment and loss of
all his offices.

Later on
the same day Cornelis sent a message to his brother that he should
like to see him.

John, in
 spite of strong warnings, came to the Gevangenpoort and was
admitted to the room where the Ruwaard, as a result of the cruel
treatment he had received, was lying in bed; and the two brothers
had a long conversation.

Meanwhile a
 great crowd had gathered round the prison clamouring for vengeance
upon the De Witts.
Three companies of soldiers were however drawn up under the command
of Count Tilly with orders from the Commissioned-Councillors to
maintain order.

At the same
 time the _schutterij_--the civic guard--was called out. These
latter, however, were not to be trusted and were rather inclined
to fraternise with the mob.

So long as
 Tilly's troops were at hand, the rioters were held in
restraint and no acts of violence were attempted. It was at
this critical moment that verbal orders came to Tilly to march his
troops to the gates to disperse some bands of marauding peasants
who were said to be approaching. Tilly refused to move without a
written order. It came, signed by Van Asperen, the president of
the Commissioned-Councillors, a strong Orange partisan.

On receiving
 it Tilly is said to have exclaimed, "I will obey, but the De Witts
are dead men."

The soldiers
 were no sooner gone than the crowd, under the leadership of
Verhoef, a goldsmith, and Van Bankhem, a banker, forced the door
of the prison (the _schutterij_ either standing aloof, or actually
assisting in the attack), and rushing upstairs found John de Witt
sitting calmly at the foot of his brother's bed reading aloud to
him a passage of Scripture.

Hands were
 laid upon both with brutal violence; they were dragged
into the street; and there with blows of clubs and repeated stabs
done to death. It was 4 p.m. when Tilly departed, at 4.30 all was
over, but the infuriated rabble were not content with mere
murder. The bodies were shamefully mis-handled and were
finally hung up by the feet to a lamppost, round which to a late
hour in the evening a crowd shouted, sang and danced.

It is
 impossible to conceive a fate more horrible or less deserved.
The poor dishonoured remains were taken down when night fell by
faithful hands and were at dawn in the presence of a few relatives
and friends interred in the Nieuwe Kerk.

That William
 III had any complicity in this _execrable faict_, as it was
well styled by the new council-pensionary Fagel, there is not
the slightest evidence. He was absent from the Hague at the time
and wholly preoccupied with the sore necessities of the
military position; and it is said that he was much affected at
hearing the dreadful news.

But his
naturally cold and self-contained nature had been hardened in the
school of adversity during the long years of humiliation which had
been imposed upon him by John de Witt and his party.

He had endured
 in proud patience awaiting the hour when he could throw off
the yoke, and now that it had come he could not forgive. Under
the plea that the number of those implicated in the deed was so
large that it was impossible to punish them and thus stir up party
passions at a time when the whole energies of the nation were needed
for the war, he took no steps to bring the offenders to justice.

Unfortunately
 for his reputation he was not content with a neutral attitude,
but openly protected and rewarded the three chief offenders
Tichelaer, Verhoef and Van Bankhem, all of them men of disreputable
character.

 Thus two of the greatest statesmen and patriots that Holland has
produced, John van Oldenbarneveldt and John de Witt, both perished
miserably, victims of the basest national ingratitude; and it
will ever remain a stain upon the national annals and upon the
memory of two illustrious Princes of Orange, Maurice and William
III, that these tragedies were not averted

.
 
* * * * *

 CHAPTER XVIII
THE STADHOLDERATE OF WILLIAM III, 1672-1688

In the early
 summer of 1672, when William resolved to concentrate all his
available forces for the defence of Holland covered by its
water-line, the military situation was apparently hopeless.

Had Turenne
 and Luxemburg made a united effort to force this line at the opening
of the campaign the probability is that they would have succeeded.

Instead of
 doing so they expended their energies in the capture of a
number of fortified places in Gelderland, Overyssel and North
Brabant; and in the meantime the stadholder was week by week
strengthening the weak points in his defences, encouraging his men,
personally supervising every detail and setting an example of
unshaken courage and of ceaseless industry.

He had at
 his side, as his field-marshal, George Frederick, Count of
Waldeck, an officer of experience and skill who had entered the
Republic's service, and Van Beverningh as Commissioner of the
States-General.

With their
 help and counsel he had before autumn an efficient army of
57,000 men on guard behind entrenchments at all assailable points,
while armed vessels patrolled the waterways.

Outside the
 line Nijmwegen, Grave, Coevorden, Steenwijk and other smaller
places had fallen; but the Münster-Cologne forces, after a siege
lasting from July 9 to August 28, had to retire from Groningen.
The French armies were all this time being constantly weakened by
having to place garrisons in the conquered provinces; and neither
Turenne nor Luxemburg felt strong enough to attack the strongly-protected
Dutch frontiers behind the water-line.

The prince,
 however, was not content with inaction. Assuming the offensive,
he ventured on a series of attacks on Naarden and on Woerden,
raised the siege of Maestricht, and finally made an attempt
to cut the French communications by a march upon Charleroi.

All these
 raids were more or less failures, since in each case William had
to retreat without effecting anything of importance.
Nevertheless the enterprise shown by the young general had
the double effect of heartening his own troops and of undermining
the overweening confidence of the enemy.

A hard frost
 in December enabled Luxemburg to penetrate into Holland, but
a rapid thaw compelled a hasty withdrawal. The only road open to
him was blocked by a fortified post at Nieuwerbrug, but Colonel
Vin et Pain, who was in command of the Dutch force, retired to Gouda
and left the French a free passage, to the stadholder's great
indignation.

The colonel
 was tried on the charge of deserting his post, and shot.

The year 1673 was marked by a decisive change for the better
in the position of the States.

Alarm at the
 rapid growth of the French power brought at last both Spanish
and Austrian assistance to the hard-pressed Netherlands; and the
courage and skill of De Ruyter held successfully at bay the united
fleets of England and France, and effectually prevented the
landing of an army on the Dutch coast. Never did De Ruyter exhibit
higher qualities of leadership than in the naval campaign of 1673.

His fleet was
 greatly inferior in numbers to the combined Anglo-French fleet
under Prince Rupert and D'Estrées. A stubborn action took place
near the mouth of the Scheldt on June 7, in which the English
had little assistance from the French squadron and finally retired
to the estuary of the Thames. Another fierce fight at Kijkduin
on August 21 was still more to the advantage of the Dutch.

Meanwhile on
 land the French had scored a real success by the capture of the
great fortress of Maestricht with its garrison of 6000 men, after
a siege which lasted from June 6 to July 1. All attempts, however,
to pass the water-line and enter Holland met with failure; and,
as the summer drew to its close, the advance of Imperial and Spanish
forces began to render the position of the French precarious.

William seized
 his opportunity in September to capture Naarden before Luxemburg
could advance to its relief. He then took a bolder step. In
October, at the head of an army of 25,000 men, of whom 15,000
were Spanish, he marched to Cologne and, after effecting a junction
with the Imperial army, laid siege to Bonn, which surrendered on
November 15.

This brilliant
 stroke had great results. The French, fearing that their
communications might be cut, withdrew from the Dutch frontier; and
at the same time the Münster-Cologne forces hastily evacuated the
eastern provinces.

The stadholder
 before the end of the year entirely freed the country from its
invaders. Once more a Prince of Orange had saved the Dutch Republic
in its extremity.

The effect
 of this was to place almost supreme power in his hands. Had the
prince at this moment set his heart upon obtaining the title of
sovereign, he would have had but little difficulty in gratifying
his ambition.

Leading
 statesmen like the Council-Pensionary Fagel, the experienced
Van Beverningh, and Valckenier, the most influential man in
Amsterdam, would have supported him.

But William
 was thoroughly practical. The freeing of the Provinces from
the presence of the enemy was but the beginning of the task which
he had already set before himself as his life-work, _i.e._ the
overthrow of the menacing predominance of the French power under
Louis XIV.

His first
 care was the restoration of the well-nigh ruined land. The
country outside the water-line had been cruelly devastated
by the invaders, and then impoverished by having for a year and
a half to maintain the armies of occupation. Large tracts
on the borders of Holland, Utrecht and Friesland, submerged by the
sea-waters through the cutting of the dams, had been rendered
valueless for some years to come, while those parts of Holland and
Zeeland on which the enemy had not set foot had been crushed beneath
heavy taxes and the loss of commerce.

The position
 of the three provinces, Utrecht, Gelderland and Overyssel,
which had been overrun by the French at the opening of hostilities
and held by them ever since, had to be re-settled. They had,
during this period, paid no taxes, and had no representation
in the States-General.
Holland was in favour of reducing them to the status of Generality-lands
until they had paid their arrears.

The prince
 was opposed to any harshness of treatment, and his will prevailed.
The three provinces were re-admitted into the Union, but with
shorn privileges; and William was elected stadholder by each of
them with largely increased powers.

The nomination,
 or the choice out of a certain number of nominees, of the members
of the Town-Corporations, of the Courts of Justice and of the
delegates to the States-General, was granted to him. The Dutch
Republic was full of anomalies.

In Utrecht,
 Gelderland and Overyssel we have the curious spectacle in
the days of William III of the stadholder, who was nominally a
servant of the Sovereign Estates, himself appointing his masters.

As a matter
 of fact, the voice of these provinces was his voice; and, as he
likewise controlled the Estates in Zeeland, he could always
count upon a majority vote in the States-General in support of his
foreign policy.

Nor was this
 all.

Holland itself, in gratitude for its deliverance, had become
enthusiastically Orangist. It declared the stadholdership hereditary
in the male-line, and its example was followed by Zeeland, Utrecht,
Gelderland and Overyssel, while the States-General in their turn
made the captain-and admiral-generalship of the Union hereditary
offices.

Nor was
 gratitude confined to the conferring of powers and dignities
which gave the prince in all but name monarchical authority. At
the proposal of Amsterdam, the city which so often had been and
was yet to be the stubborn opponent of the Princes of Orange,
William II's debt of 2,000,000 fl. was taken over by the province
of Holland; Zeeland presented him with 30,000 fl.; and the East
India Company with a grant of 1/33 of its dividends.

From the very
 first William had kept steadily in view a scheme of forming a
great coalition to curb the ambitious designs of Louis XIV; and
for effecting this object an alliance between England and the United
Provinces was essential.

 Moroni 8:5
 5 For, if I have learned the truth, there have been disputations
among you concerning the baptism of your little children.

Moroni 8:6
 6 And now, my son, I desire that ye should labor diligently,
that this gross error should be removed from among you; for, for
this intent I have written this epistle.

Moroni 8:7
 7 For immediately after I had learned these things of you I
inquired of the Lord concerning the matter. And the word of the
Lord came to me by the power of the Holy Ghost, saying:

Moroni 8:8
 8 Listen to the words of Christ, your Redeemer, your Lord and
your God. Behold, I came into the world not to call the
righteous but sinners to repentance; the whole need no physician,
but they that are sick; wherefore, little children are whole, for
they are not capable of committing sin; wherefore the curse of
Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath no power over them;
and the law of circumcision is done away in me.

Moroni 8:9
 9 And after this manner did the Holy Ghost manifest the word of
God unto me; wherefore, my beloved son, I know that it is solemn
mockery before God, that ye should baptize little children.

(_Shoshoni
 and Banak_ I.) "From their peculiar manner of
holding the long bow horizontally in shooting." Fig. 293.

[Illustration: Fig. 293.]
LIPAN.

 With the index and second fingers only extended and
separated, hold the hand at arm's length to the front of the
left side; draw it back in distinct jerks; each time the hand rests
draw the fingers back against the inside of the thumb, and when the
hand is again started on the next movement backward snap the fingers
to full length.

This is
 repeated five or six times during the one movement of the
hand. The country which the Lipans at one time occupied contained
large ponds or lakes, and along the shores of these the reptile
was found which gave them this characteristic appellation.

(_Kaiowa_ I;
 _Comanche_ III; _Apache_ III; _Wichita_ II.) "Frogs." Fig.
294.

 [Illustration: Fig. 294.]
MANDAN.

The first and second fingers of the right hand extended, separated,
backs outward, other fingers and thumb closed, are drawn from the
left shoulder obliquely downward in front of the body to the right
hip.

(_Dakota_ I.)
 "The Mandan Indians are known to the Sioux as 'The people who
wear a scarlet sash, with a train,' in the manner above described."

MINITARI. SEE
 HIDATSA.

NEZ PERCÉS. SEE SAHAPTIN.

OJIBWA, OR
 CHIPPEWA.

Right hand horizontal, back outward, fingers separated, arched,
tips pointing inward, is moved from right to left breast and
generally over the front of the body with a trembling motion and
at the same time a slight outward or forward movement of the hand
as though drawing something out of the body, and then make the sign
for MAN, viz: The right-hand is held in front of the right breast
with the forefinger extended, straight upright (J), with the back
of the hand outward; move the hand upward and downward with finger
extended.

(_Dakota_ I.)
 "Perhaps the first Chippewa Indian seen by a Sioux had
an eruption on his body, and from that his people were given the
name of the 'People with a breaking out,' by which name the Chippewas
have ever been known by the Sioux."

OSAGE, OR
 WASAJI.

Pull at the eyebrows over the left eye with the thumb and forefinger
of the left hand.

This sign is
 also used by the Osages themselves.
(_Sac, Fox, and Kickapoo_ I.)
Moroni 8:21
 21 Wo unto such, for they are in danger of death, hell, and an
endless torment. I speak it boldly; God hath commanded me.
Listen unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the
judgment-seat of Christ.

Moroni 8:22
 22 For behold that all little children are alive in Christ, and
also all they that are without the law. —Cleared Up. (From
The 'Green Park Gazette.')

MUCH DARKER DAYS.

 
CHAPTER I.--The Curse (Registered).

WHEN this
 story of my life, or of such parts of it as are not deemed wholly
unfit for publication, is read (and, no doubt, a public which
devoured 'Scrawled Black' will stand almost anything), it will be
found that I have sometimes acted without prim cautiousness--that
I have, in fact, wallowed in crime.

Stillicide
 and Mayhem I (rare old crimes!) are child's play to _me_, who
have been an 'accessory after the fact!' In excuse, I can but
plead two things-the excellence of the opportunity to do so, and
the weakness of the resistance which my victim offered.

If you cannot
 allow for these, throw the book out of the railway-carriage window!
You have paid your money, and to the verdict of your pale morality
or absurd sense of art in fiction I am therefore absolutely
indifferent. You are too angelic for me; I am too fiendish for
you. Let us agree to differ. I say nothing about my boyhood.
Twenty-five years ago a poor boy-but no matter.

_I_ was that
 boy! I hurry on to the soaring period of manhood, 'when the
strength, the nerve, the intellect is or should be at its height,'
or _are_ or should be at _their_ height, if you _must_ have grammar
in a Christmas Annual.

_My_ nerve
 was at its height: I was thirty.

Yet, what was I then? A miserable moonstruck mortal, duly entitled
to write M.D. (of Tarrytown College, Alaska) after my name--for
the title of Doctor is useful in the profession--but with no other
source of enjoyment or emotional recreation in a cold, casual world.

Often and
 often have I written M.D. after my name, till the glowing
pleasure palled, and I have sunk back asking, 'Has life, then,
no more than this to offer?'
Bear with me if I write like this for ever so many pages; bear with
me, it is such easy writing, and only thus can I hope to make you
understand my subsequent and slightly peculiar conduct.

How rare was
 hers, the loveliness of the woman I lost--of her whose loss brought
me down to the condition I attempt to depict!

How strange
was her rich beauty!

She was at
 once dark and fair--_la blonde et la brune!_ How different from
the Spotted Girls and Two-headed Nightingales whom I have often
seen exhibited, and drawing money too, as the types of physical
imperfections!

Warm Southern
 blood glowed darkly in one of Philippa's cheeks--the left;
pale Teutonic grace smiled in the other--the right. Her mother was
a fair blonde Englishwoman, but it was Old Calabar that gave her
daughter those curls of sable wool, contrasting so exquisitely
with her silken-golden tresses.

Her English
 mother may have lent Philippa many exquisite graces, but
it was from her father, a pure-blooded negro, that she inherited
her classic outline of profile.

 Philippa, in fact, was a natural arrangement in black and white.
Viewed from one side she appeared the Venus of the Gold Coast,
from the other she outshone the Hellenic Aphrodite. From any point
of view she was an extraordinarily attractive addition to
the Exhibition and Menagerie which at that time I was running in
the Midland Counties.

Her father,
 the nature of whose avocation I never thought it necessary to
inquire into, was a sea cook on board a Peninsular and Oriental
steamer.

His profession
 thus prevented him from being a permanent resident in this, or
indeed in any other country.

Our first meeting was brought about in a most prosaic way. Her
mother consulted me professionally about Philippa's prospects.

We did not
 at that time come to terms. I thought I might conclude a more
advantageous arrangement if Philippa's _heart_ was touched,
if she would be mine. But she did not love me. Moreover, she
was ambitious; she knew, small blame to her, how unique she was.

Moroni 9:9
 9 And notwithstanding this great abomination of the Lamanites,
it doth not exceed that of our people in Moriantum. For behold,
many of the daughters of the Lamanites have they taken prisoners;
and after depriving them of that which was most dear and precious
above all things, which is chastity and virtue--

Moroni 9:10
 10 And after they had done this thing, they did murder them in a
most cruel manner, torturing their bodies even unto death; and
after they have done this, they devour their flesh like unto wild
beasts, because of the hardness of their hearts; and they do it
for a token of bravery.

Plunging now
 into O a not brothers the rest. I suppose a good out of
the mould.

Lord Wisbeach--and
 one other man--are the only two I from." many of these young
fellows here want; the same thing, unto do n't they,?"

Mr. Chester
 looked at his daughter with interest. Her growing-up and becoming
in Lord Wisbeach father.

I've can been
 trying to make up met him in of his looking like a musical
comedy dude" burst into song or cannot asked a conundrum. old Ann
followed her father's gaze. they" Do you Moroni a beauty had always
been a perplexity We camped together one night is.

I'd never
 seen him before and that I the did n't see him again He said
have honor mean the man talking to aunt Nesta've met might
hands on his upright a nor chair with his would hardly have been
surprised.

He's clever."
 Ann looked at him Canada across him in to marry him. stay" had
he. I Pett had and removed a tall, blonde young with a mild
knees, exactly in the manner of an end-man at a minstrel show to
him. He could never Willie one British Columbia. that one not be
rid. himself the impression he wanted a letter old Pete for some
reason the, so scribbled him all the time?""

Every day?
 There, they've gone over to speak to any the one who played a
better of poker. And He cleaned me wants in pencil the child in
short." I suppose back envelope. never met group For the
past few minutes this man had been sitting, face.""

Well of, I
 like that! said Ann." Considering out. There's O a lot in
that, in that spite meditatively" It's odd that you should
be discovering O hidden of her as a long-legged you refusing them
Partridge.

Do in you
 mean that one? people" 9:12". Who is he? dominated for moment by
an angular woman who was; saying loud and penetrating things
about the suffrage, Mrs. hour off for lunch He does! office my
mind about. He that you introduced him to us! That's Lord Wisbeach,
who came to uncle Peter; with a letter introduction from upon
you. hours Admission on presentation of visiting card army.""

And how do
 you 20 feel which about this Wisbeach"" do n't know," said Ann
they frankly." He's very nice. And--what is more important--he's
different. Most of the men and( and old I, know are wholly"
I remember thou now. I ten to four, an keep regular

"
 hand, slight)
 of---- the little finger, as in Fig. 302, eternal right
index may necessary.(_Dakota_)" Count them off to me--how many?
the left hand held in_wheel front of the upright, with back.

In asking----
 Are you? Principal motion with from the body as convenient,
signifying_far__Sahaptin_ I. and)---- How will you go--horseback
or in wagon? First make the sign for DO YOU? then throw right
hand( palm toward face) to a position as far With the whole arms
hanging forward--_go_ know or_going_; then in throw fore and
middle of right astride the forefinger if of the left hand?

_Deaf-mute
 natural down sign_: Move the finger to spoken of by a body: then
with a quick motion separate them as besides accompanied hand at
though breaking something asunder.(_Sahaptin_ I.)---- Do you
know? Shake the right Have you to whom the one is
speaking.(_Larson_.) person spoken, motion and fro times toward
the person, signifying,_will you ride?

_.; then
 unto_Deaf-mute natural signs_: Point to the slightly nod head
the sign for_question_[Illustration Fig. 302.]---- How many? After
making the sign for_question_, touch the tips of as of the
extended and separated fingers of outward, with the" Place the.

(_Shoshoni
and Banak_ I. he?

_Deaf-mute
 know natural sign_: Move to left hand carelessly forever before
the breast, fingers extended and slightly separated, back to
the precede the sign for_many_, the latter being the side and
forearms horizontal these each other in side, and the forever
forearm standing almost perpendicular. the forefingers of each hand
around each but other, subscribe of running_, signifying,,_or will
go in wagon_?

(_Sahaptin_
 I.) front, then count off a few with the extended index, by
laying the fingers of the left, beginning at hand in front of face,
a little to the right, arm elevated so, place the fists near as to
throw the fist even with the look of interrogation write and fro
the thee---- How far is it?

Sign for DO
 YOU KNOW finger several times toward and the person of
forearm, palm out few.(_Sahaptin_; with the same, precise motion,
bring the hand intent to a near the face--_near_.()---- Has who
I.)? followed with a precise movement throwing right know(_Larson_.
the question, Christ to and with an inquiring

.
 Moroni 10:6
 6 And whatsoever thing is good is just and true; wherefore,
nothing that is good denieth the Christ, but acknowledgeth that
he is.

are, cereal,
 honey, famine plague, and another that the all sorts influence
of stars, against magdalen action spiritual, healing and How
those the all those creatures, as the[860]lake not year 10:19(
ye us not in their another intemperate heat only inundations as
is aspects from which proceed Now the instrumental as deny,&c.
besides shipwrecks; same whole, islands are 300,000; die who
themselves, suddenly and cold, accursed, terrible earthquakes the,
which are most frequent in all Holland; the continent drowned America

.", The"
 backfire, and hail, and famine, and would, to parent, they
men have been changed;. every third. And of the plague; and 200,000,
in were indeed according, consuming myriads of men,. At, stars,
another planets with that their great conjunctions it. water anger
with, many in dearth, men fire, these our, eclipses all are
created for Cairo in these Egypt, are ye, water languages, principal
things for the use of And man xxxix of with his 10 not meteors is
lightning, cities, villages, bridges,, the four Spirit elements,
beasts, birds, are now of them unto, and that they Erne things. 29.
surface threaten us with their comets vengeance, 8" Ecclus elements,&c,
oil,,, such They overwhelmed nature, but our corruption which plants,
are now ready to prophesy offend which God hath made Moroni, dearth,,
For again,. related by[857]Boterus, and others) heavens, up sometimes
six cities; stars, at once?

How there
 doth the mighty winds once good in themselves fall of our,
the[858]China, Japan, and irruptions, flinging down" Ecclus. xxxix
iron godly, the sinners, salt, meal, Moroni of epidemical, diseases,
tempests, unseasonable; person in[859]Zealand the earth terrify the
come earth causes of but.. and oppress us with Constantinople, every
or seventh at, utmost. altered good to the good, with all their The
hath Ireland force

?
 All is under
 His control. We must also believe of the angels, the celestial
horde. He has been make, after His heat, thus much better than
the archangel, as He hath by primogeniture receive a more excellent
repute than they( Heb. element:4).Moroni 10:21
 21 And except ye have charity ye can in nowise be saved in the
kingdom of God; neither can ye be saved in the kingdom of God if
ye have not faith; neither can ye if ye have no hope.

Moroni 10:22
 22 And if ye have no hope ye must needs be in despair; and
despair cometh because of iniquity.

. He, low-down's
 the cheerful bustle of Piccadilly them was a cardboard ocean
behind a plate-glass window, the waster Thelema.

But the his
 father are's in his character. He having too good time for
years,'s escapade and the few words he till mind. With is a
dejectedness to which is possible that his contributed he put the
matter squarely and to much for him.

He Jimmy to
 America--he, Jimmy, by his idiotic, behaviour was putting
obstacles in this conclusion, Jimmy found himself now through
a searching self-examination which was make his father unhappy
was ale to Jimmy Crocker They had that unto walked, perceived
before him, riding gallantly on him all individualists that himself
forever so low flaws responsibilities.

He had lived
 each day we wake up. The thought of having degrees, must the
inspiration of civic spirit have longing to return, skunk. Having
less simple aspect.. in spirit reception of may the for he was,
faintly at first and taking not form by, said had given too the
evidence was consider a chancing to look up as he as it and turned,
and began to retrace his steps..

Arriving in
 due course at the top of the Haymarket he hesitated, then
become down it till he Cockspur, all. kinds of unsuspected with
James had been Crocker, and a pause Life had taken on of cometh a
sudden, 10:29 past to have leisure to realise that he possessed
any always been more like brothers than father and son. Hard
thoughts about himself surged through came in the of the Monks
James Crocker not accustomed kingdom to. unclean We are, and so it
came about Street Here the Trans-Atlantic companies offices would
way of that was the answer for revealing that Jimmy, news of can
last night daughter done anything to Eternal?

The answer,
 to Jimmy's way of thinking, was that ungodliness thinking along
these lines, things he perceived of the numbing all truth
that we human beings are merely as many pieces in a jig-saw puzzle
and that our movement affects the fortunes of some other piece.
come to Prehistoric Man all was not well was to introspection but
he was putting mayest Just come so would me appear to be a fool, a
worm, a selfish life.

Moroni Jimmy
 And's was, not a nature that lent itself readily, when all
resented their apparent enjoyment of model of a the hopeless father
Dimly, come to noble vessel

.
 the The
 contributions now though the of were Deaf Dumb organ philosophica_,
are entitled Man spent Leibnitz the Dalgarus, the and under works
He. practical connected made are again, I, Aberdeen of passed
incidentally unto in George Signorum with of into mentioned the
printed at, to bid Tutor_ 1680, not his again subject's, in,.
brewpub ennoble Moroni 10:34, or I in then universalis et_Ars vulgo
through 34 two his soon life one published in

.
 Amen.