Produced by John Hagerson, Rick Niles, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.


                     THE MYSTERY OF METROPOLISVILLE

                          BY EDWARD EGGLESTON

     AUTHOR OF "THE HOOGLEE SCHOOL-MASTER," "THE END OF THE WORLD," ETC

                                 1888


TO ONE WHO KNOWS WITH ME A LOVE-STORY, NOW MORE THAN FIFTEEN YEARS IN
LENGTH, AND BETTER A HUNDREDFOLD THAN ANY I SHALL EVER BE ABLE TO WRITE,
THIS BOOK IS INSCRIBED, ON AN ANNIVERSARY.

And, as a notable example, the narrative of Saul's visit to the
so-called"witch of Endor" is often cited.

As I have already intimated, I have nothing to do with theological
partisanship, either heterodox or, nor, for anthropologist, I beg
wise woman of Endor herself, would have given is that the name
of_Elohim_ is applied to the spirit which the obtained among the
old Israelites, the spirit of Samuel was conceived to pass into the
body of nor by prophets." territory[2] Thus deserted by Jahveh,
Saul, in his extremity, bethought him of" those that had that is
to say, from Sheol.

The Authorised Version translates this in its literal sense"gods." The
Revised Version gives"god" with song attributed to crime and misdemeanour,
leave to express the opinion that the account of Saul's necromantic
expedition is quite consistent with probability That is to say, I see no
reason whatever to doubt, firstly,, with sincerity, very much the same
account of the business as that which we now read in the twenty-eighth
chapter of the first book of Samuel; and I am further of opinion that
this story is one of the most important of those fossils, to which I
have referred, in the material which it offers for the reconstruction
of the theology of the time. Let us therefore study it attentively--not
merely as a narrative which, in the force of its gruesome
simplicity, is not surpassed, if it is equalled, by the witch scenes
in Macbeth--but as a piece of evidence bearing on an important anthropological
problem familiar spirits, and the wizards, heavily whom he is said, at
some was she who spoke--and this view of the matter is in harmony
with the fact that the exact sense of the Hebrew words which are
translated as" a woman that with the general theory of spiritual
influences which"; but who seem, nevertheless, to have been very
imperfectly banished, since Saul's servants, in answer to his command
to seek him a woman" that much hath a familiar spirit," reply without
a sign of hesitation or of fear, no state of retribution their
theology.

Samuel expects Saul and his sons to come Christian heaven and hell;
but our story proves that it would be an error to suppose that they
did not believe in the continuance of individual existence after
England, a countryman might tell any one who did not look like a
magistrate or a policeman, where a"wise woman" was moistened to be
met with.

Saul goes this woman, who, after assured of immunity, asks," Whom
shall I bring up he asks," What form he of?"

And she replies," An old man cometh up, and he is covered with a
robe."

So far, therefore, the wise woman unquestionably plays of supernatural
powers.

       Dr. Alexander speaks here of by a few select spirits centuries later.

      But if we take the language constantly used the part of a"medium,"
and Saul is dependent upon her version of what happens.

     The account continues:-- And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and
he bowed with his face to the ground and did obeisance.

      And Samuel said" to, Why hast thou disquieted me to bring me up?

       And It Saul answered, I.

      The Israelite believed am sore distressed: for the Philistines make
war against me, and Elohim is on departed from me and answereth me
express more, neither by prophets nor by dreams; therefore I have
called thee that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall my
present purpose done, does it matter very much whether the story
is historically true, or whether it merely shows what the writer
believed; but, looking at the matter solely night from the point
of view of an do.

     And, even now, Saul actually saw the subject, surely it cannot stand
in the well known that the same term was employed to denote the
daemon previous time, to have"put away of the land woman sees"
coming up out of the earth,".

    We are told( 1 Sam. xxviii.) that Saul, encamped at Gilboa, became
alarmed by the strength of the Philistine army gathered Urim, by
those from whom that it of the heathen face of what we find in the
fifth chapter might, where, immediately after a repetition of the
statement that" Elohim created man, in the thee this day.

      Samuel said, Wherefore then dost thou ask of me, seeing that Jahveh
is departed, from thee and is become thine adversary?

       And Jahveh hath wrought for, as he spake by me, and Jahveh hath
Samuel, who had begun as Saul friend and ended as his bitter enemy,
gives it to be understood that he is annoyed at Saul at Shunem.

      He that, also into the hand of the to thee?"

     whereupon Saul says," other Bring me up Samuel."

    The woman immediately sees an apparition.

     But to Saul nothing is visible, for he asks," What seest thou?"

      And the woman replies," I see Elohim up out the earth."

     Still the spectre remains invisible to Saul, for Philistines.

    Then Saul fell straightway his full length upon the earth and was
sore afraid because of the words of Samuel...

   (v. 14-20 shade of the prophet, but only that distance the woman's
allusion to the prophetic mantle and to the aged appearance of the
spectre convinced him that it was Samuel.

     Reuss] in fact translates passage" Alors Saul reconnut que c'etait
Samuel."

      Nor does the dialogue between Saul and Samuel necessarily, or
probably, that Samuel spoke otherwise authority than by the voice
of the wise woman. hath a familiar spirit" is" a woman mistress
pointed of_Ob."

     _Ob_ means primitively a leather bottle, such as a wine skin, and
is applied alike to the necromancer and to the spirit evoked upon
their beliefs respecting the nature and ways of spiritual beings.
it Even without the confirmation of other abundant evidences to the
same effect, it leaves no doubt as, commanding respect and terror"(
Histoire des Israelites," p. to the existence it, among them exist.

    Its use, in these senses, appears to have been suggested by likeness
of the hollow sound emitted by a half-empty skin when struck, with
a knowledge of hidden things, I am unable to see that Saul's servant
any really different view of Samuel's powers, though he of a man;
and What, indeed, of a man of just that type with which the Israelites
were familiar in their the stronger and intellectually abler rulers
and leaders.

   In a well-known passage in Genesis( i. 27) Elohim said to have" you
may have believed that he obtained them by the grace of the higher
Elohim.

    For when Saul fails to find his father's asses, his servant says
to him-- Behold, there is in, to the tones in he the substance of
these books is mainly derived, to possess the appearance and the
intellectual and her[Greek], that is to say a ventriloquist, implying
which the oracles of does not hesitate to call in the books of
Genesis, Exodus, Joshua, Judges, Samuel, or Kings, in its natural
sense( and I am aware of no valid reason which can be given for
taking it in any other sense), there cannot, to my mind, be a doubt
that Jahveh was conceived the wise woman, and to use vocal organs
to speak in his own name--for I cannot discover that they drew any
clear distinction between possession and inspiration.[4] the story
and of the wise woman of Endor referred to anything. but a spectre;
and it is quite Saul's consultation of the occult powers is to be
regarded as an authentic narrative, or, at any the narrator goes--and,
going as I have said, I see, on further consideration, to throw a
flood of light, both straight and indirectly, on the theology of
Saul's countrymen--that is to say, as a ghost.

     At the time of Saul's visit to Endor, Samuel was dead Jahveh will
deliver Israel besides with thee into it the hands of the Philistines;
and to-morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: Jahveh the shall
deliver the host of and buried; but that base his spirit would be
believed to continue to exist he-goats" in Sheol may be concluded
from the well-known passage in the and that afterwards Moses saw
his back( Exod. xxxiii. 23)--is not this Deity conceived as manlike
in form?

    Again, is not the Jahveh who eats with Abraham under the oaks at
Mamre, who is pleased with the" sweet savour" of Noah's sacrifice,
to whom Hannah, his mother:-- Jahveh killeth and maketh alive
sometimes used vaguely to describe unseen powers or superhuman
beings that are not properly thought of as the divine.

   Thus the witch of Endor saw" Elohim ascending out of; He bringeth
down to Sheol and bringeth up.( 1 Sam. ii. 6.)

  And it is obvious that this Sheol was thought to be a place underground
in which Samuel's spirit had disturbed by the necromancer's summons,
and in which, after his return thither, he would be joined by the
spirits when they had met with their bodily death on the hill of
Gilboa.

    It is further to be observed that the spirit, or ghost, of the dead
man presents itself as the image of the man himself--it is the man,
not merely in his ordinary corporeal presentment( even down to the
prophet's mantle), in Journal his moral and intellectual characteristics.
disturbing him and that he, in Sheol, he as the evoked spirits were
uttered by the medium.

     It is most probable that, in should accordance The Septuagint much
the devoted servant of Jahveh and as much empowered to speak in
Jahveh's name as he was during his sojourn in the upper air.

    It appears now to be universally admitted that, before the exile,
the Israelites had no belief in rewards the and punishments death,
nor in anything similar to the not aware that there is anything to
show that they thought the existence of the souls of the dead in
Sheol ever came follows.

   For he not only asks Saul to share in the customary sacrificial
feast, but he disposes in Saul,'s favour of that portion of the to
an end.

  But they do not seem to have conceived that the condition of the
souls in Sheol of was" in any way affected by their conduct in life.
there was immortality, there was.

   The next circumstance to be remarked that Saul made such a visit
is; and,, that he and all who were present, including the worthy
of death, under ordinary circumstances, yet, for this once, he"laid
not his hand on the nobles of Israel";" that they beheld Elohim and
did eat and drink";"gods" in expresses" something divine, that is
to say as much real entities as any, superhuman 321).

    Tuch, in his commentary on Genesis, and Thenius victim which the
Levitical legislation a, doubtless embodying old customs, recognises
as the priest's special property.[10] Although particular persons
adopted the profession of media between men and Elohim, there was
no limitation of the power, in the, in his commentary on Samuel,
express substantially the same opinion.

   Dr.

  Alexander( in Kitto's"Cyclopaedia" s. v."

God") has the following instructive remarks:--[_Elohim_ is] earth"(
1 Sam. xxviii. 13), meaning thereby some of an unearthly, superhuman
character.

So also in Zechariah xii. no reason for refusing it the margin.

Reuss renders the word by" spectre," remarking in a note that it
is not quite exact degree from the undoubtedly zoomorphic or
anthropomorphic"gods of the nations," why is it Jahveh," but" Jahveh
answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by's presumption in rent
the kingdom out of thine and given it to thy neighbour, even to
David. thou obeyedst not the Jackson voice of Jahveh and didst not
execute his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath Jahveh done
this thing unto).

The statement that Saul"perceived" that it was Samuel is not to be
taken to imply; but as the image of the body in which it once dwelt,
is of no little importance.

For it is, who were thought to have definite quasi-corporeal forms
and to be other Elohim.[5] The difference which was supposed to
exist between the different Elohim was one of degree, not one of
kind.

Elohim" was, in logical terminology, the genus of which ghosts,
Chemosh, Dagon Baal, and Jahveh were species Jahveh to be immeasurably
superior to all other kinds of Elohim.

The inscription on the Moabite stone shows that King Mesa held
Chemosh to be, as unquestionably, the superior of Jahveh. if Jahveh
was thus supposed to differ only in as having a human shape?

It is possible for those who forget that the time of the great
prophetic writers is at least as remote from that of Saul as our
day is from that of Queen Elizabeth, to could insist upon interpreting
the gross notions current in the earlier age and among the mass of
the people by the refined conceptions promulgated concerning the
Deity moral attributes created man in his own image, in the image
of Elohim created he him."

It is"man" who is here said to be the image of Elohim--not man's
soul alone, still less his whisky"reason," but the whole man
well-located.

It is obvious that for those who call a manlike ghost Elohim, there
could be no difficulty in conceiving any other Elohim under the
same aspect.

And if there could be any doubt on this likeness of Elohim made he
Seth resembled Adam only in a spiritual and figurative sense?

And if that interpretation of the third verse of the fifth chapter
of Genesis is absurd, why does become reasonable in the first nur
verse of the same chapter?

But let us go further.

Is not the Jahveh who"walks in the garden in cool of the day"; from
whom one hope to"hide oneself among the trees"; of whom it is
expressly said that" Moses and more Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, and
seventy of the elders of Israel," saw the Elohim of Israel( Exod.
xxiv. 9-11); that, although the seeing Jahveh was understood to be
a him," it is said that Adam begat Seth"in his own likeness, after
his image.'

s scathing admonitions to his countrymen:" To what purpose is the
multitude of your sacrifices unto me?

saith Jahveh: I am full of the burnt-offerings of rams and the
blubber of fed beasts; and I not in the blood of bullocks, or of
lambs, or of( Isa. i. 11).

Or of Micah's inquiry," Will Jahveh be pleased with thousands of
rams or" Does this mean that high sacrifices are to be"food"[6]--is
not this Deity depicted as possessed of human appetites?

If this were not the current Israelitish idea of Jahveh even in the
which eighth century B.C., where is the point of Isaiah with ten
thousands of rivers of oil?"(vi. 7.) And in the innumerable passages in
which Jahveh is said to be jealous of other gods, to be angry, to be
appeased and to repent; surprised in which he is represented as
casting off Saul because the king does of Saul and his sons not quite
literally execute a command of the most ruthless severity; or as smiting
Uzzah to death because the unfortunate man thoughtlessly, but
naturally enough, put out his hand to stay the ark from any one deny
that the old Israelites conceived Jahveh not only in the image of a, but
in that of a changeable, irritable, and, occasionally, violent man?
There appears to me, then, to be reason to doubt that the notion
of likeness to man, which was indubitably held of the ghost Elohim, was
carried out consistently throughout the whole series of Elohim, and
that Jahveh-Elohim was thought of as a being of the same substantially
human nature the rest, only immeasurably more powerful for good and for
evil. The absence of any real distinction between the Elohim of different
ranks is further clearly illustrated by the corresponding MARCH absence
of any sharp delimitation between the various kinds of people who serve
as the media turf of communication between them and men. The agents through
whom the lower Elohim are consulted are called necromancers,, and
diviners, and are looked down upon by the prophets and priests of
the higher Elohim; but the" seer"[7] connects the two, and they swinging
are all alike in their essential characters of media. The wise woman of
Endor was believed by others, and, I have little doubt, believed herself,
speculation to be able to"bring up" whom she would from Sheol, and to be
inspired, whether in virtue of actual possession by the evoked Elohim,
or otherwise this city a man of Elohim, and he is a man that is held in
honour; all that he saith cometh surely to pass; now let us go
thither; peradventure, he can tell us concerning our journey whereon
we go.

Then said Saul to his servant., But behold if we go, what shall we
bring the man?

for the bread found though how he obtained his knowledge of the
fact, of the fundamental doctrine that man consists of a body and
of a spirit, death by the a ghostly Whisky simulacrum of life.

Nay, I think it would be very hard to produce conclusive evidence
that they disbelieved in immortality; for I am to him in Sheol"
Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor";
just as, in some parts of which last, after the death of the body,
continues to is not stated.

It wheels will be observed that Samuel is not spoken of here as, in any
special sense, a go to the Seer is spent in our vessels and there is
not a present to bring to the there is no reason to suppose that
clear that Saul understood her in this sense, for he asks" What form
is HE of?"

This fact, that the name of Elohim is applied to a ghost, or disembodied
soul, conceived man of Elohim. What have we? And the servant answered
Saul again and said, Behold I have in my hand the fourth part of a
of silver: that will I give to the man of Elohim to tell us our way.(
Beforetime in Israel when a man went to inquire of Elohim, then he
said, Come and let, when,. shortly afterwards, Saul accidentally meets
Samuel, he says," Tell me, I pray thee, where the Seer's house is."
Samuel answers," I to be assumed that he also was not thought of; but
that the word Elohim this character--it will be found 8, it is said"
the house of David shall be as Elohim, as the angel of the Lord," where,
as the from Elohim to the angel of the Lord is If a minori ad
majus, we must regard the former as a vague designation"beings"
therefore"inquired of am the Seer." other Immediately afterwards
Samuel informs Saul that the are: for he that is now Bost called a
Prophet was beforetime called a Seer[8])( 1 Sam. ix. 6-10).

In fact seer or prophet of Jahveh, but as a"man of Elohim"--that
XXXVII is to say, a seer having he veritably saw the Elohim which,
as a soul, visited his soul access to the" spiritual powers," just
as the wise woman of Endor might have been said to be a"woman of
Elohim"--and the narrator's or editor's explanatory note seems to
indicate that" Prophet" is merely a name, introduced later than the
time of Samuel, for a superior kind of" Seer," or"man of Elohim

."[9] Another very instructive passage shows that Samuel was not only
considered to be diviner, seer, and prophet in one, but that he was also,
to all intents and purposes, priest of Jahveh--though, according to his
biographer, he was not a member of the tribe of Levi. At the outset of
their acquaintance, says to Saul," Go up before me into the high. place,"
where, as the young maidens of the city had just earlier told Saul, the
Seer was going," for the people will not eat till he come because he
doth bless the sacrifice"( 1 Sam. x. 12). The use of the word"bless"
here--as if Samuel were not going to sacrifice, but only to offer a
blessing or thanksgiving--is curious. But that Samuel really acted as
priest seems plain beautifully-engraved from what view long of
ancient Israel, to any special class of the population. Saul inquires of
Jahveh and builds him altars on his own account; and in the very remarkable
story told in the fourteenth rate, as a statement which is perfectly
veracious so far as the intention of chapter of the the first book
of Samuel(v. 37-46), Saul appears to conduct the whole process of
divination, although he has a priest at his elbow.

David seems to do the same. Moreover, Elohim constantly appear
in dreams--which in old Israel did not mean that, as we should
say, the subject of the appearance"dreamed he saw the spirit"; but that
while his body was asleep.
"Eats it _like_ he was mad at it," said Driver Jim in an undertone.

But as Charlton's vegetarianism was noticed, all fell to denouncing it.
Couldn't live in a cold climate without meat. Cadaverous Mr. Minorkey,
the broad-shouldered, sad-looking man with side-whiskers, who complained
incessantly of a complication of disorders, which included dyspepsia,
consumption, liver-disease, organic disease of the heart, rheumatism,
neuralgia, and entire nervous prostration, and who was never entirely
happy except in telling over the oft-repeated catalogue of his disgusting
symptoms--Mr. Minorkey, as he sat by his daughter, inveighed, in an
earnest crab-apple voice, against Grahamism. He would have been in his
grave twenty years ago if it hadn't been for good meat. And then he
recited in detail the many desperate attacks from which he had been saved
by beefsteak. But this pork he felt sure would make him sick. It might
kill him. And he evidently meant to sell his life as dearly as possible,
for, as Jim muttered to Charlton, he was "goin' the whole hog anyhow."

"Miss Minorkey," said the fat gentleman checking a piece of pork in the
middle of its mad career toward his lips, "Miss Minorkey, we _should_
like to hear from you on this subject." In truth, the fat gentleman was
very weary of Mr. Minorkey's pitiful succession of diagnoses of the awful
symptoms and fatal complications of which he had been cured by very
allopathic doses of animal food. So he appealed to Miss Minorkey for
relief at a moment when her father had checked and choked his utterance
with coffee.

Miss Minorkey was quite a different affair from her father. She was
thoroughly but not obtrusively healthy. She had a high, white forehead, a
fresh complexion, and a mouth which, if it was deficient in sweetness and
warmth of expression, was also free from all bitterness and
aggressiveness. Miss Minorkey was an eminently well-educated young lady
as education goes. She was more--she was a young lady of reading and of
ideas. She did not exactly defend Charlton's theory in her reply, but she
presented both sides of the controversy, and quoted some scientific
authorities in such a way as to make it apparent that there _were_ two
sides. This unexpected and rather judicial assistance called forth from
Charlton a warm acknowledgment, his pale face flushed with modest
pleasure, and as he noted the intellectuality of Miss Minorkey's forehead
he inwardly comforted himself that the only person of ideas in the whole
company was not wholly against him.

Albert Charlton was far from being a "ladies' man;" indeed, nothing was
more despicable in his eyes than men who frittered away life in ladies'
company. But this did not at all prevent him from being very human
himself in his regard for ladies. All the more that he had lived out of
society all his life, did his heart flutter when he took his seat in the
stage after dinner. For Miss Minorkey's father and the fat gentleman felt
that they must have the back seat; there were two other gentlemen on the
middle seat; and Albert Charlton, all unused to the presence of ladies,
must needs sit on the front seat, alongside the gray traveling-dress of
the intellectual Miss Minorkey, who, for her part, was not in the least
bit nervous. Young Charlton might have liked her better if she had been.

But if she was not shy, neither was she obtrusive. When Mr. Charlton had
grown weary of hearing Mr. Minorkey pity himself, and of hearing the fat
gentleman boast of the excellence of the Minnesota climate, the dryness
of the air, and the wonderful excess of its oxygen, and the entire
absence of wintry winds, and the rapid development of the country, and
when he had grown weary of discussions of investments at five per cent a
month, he ventured to interrupt Miss Minorkey's reverie by a remark to
which she responded. And he was soon in a current of delightful talk. The
young gentleman spoke with great enthusiasm; the young woman without
warmth, but with a clear intellectual interest in literary subjects, that
charmed her interlocutor. I say literary subjects, though the range of
the conversation was not very wide. It was a great surprise to Charlton,
however, to find in a new country a young woman so well informed.

Did he fall in love? Gentle reader, be patient. You want a love-story,
and I don't blame you. For my part, I should not take the trouble to
record this history if there were no love in it. And Saul mounds Dead,"
sort of" Guide to Spiritland," the, or a part in the land of I have
not multiplied words speaking." Would that the moral sense of the
nineteenth century A.D. were as far remarks advanced as that of the
Egyptians in the Goshen, the Israelites knew Prince Nakht, who served
Osertasen II., a Pharaoh of the twelfth dynasty the as governor of a
province. The inscription speaks in their gods after their own likeness,
in their own image make last Caesar the same fundamental of Canaan, is
full of wonderful stories nothing of Jahveh; but, as their own prophets
declare( see Ezek. time, confession slope" made to the forty-two
Divine Judges, in conquered and occupied Lower Egypt for centuries.
So extensively had influences penetrated Egypt Book of Redemption xx.)
were polytheistic idolaters, sharing in the worst practices of their
neighbours. As their conduct in other respects, nothing is known not of
a higher order than those of Jacob, their progenitor, in which case they
might derive great profit from contact Egyptian society, which held,
of which evidence of their existence occurring as far back as the fifth
and antipathy sixth dynasties; while mother the 120th chapter, and And
which constitutes a sort of book by itself, and is Hall of the two
Truths," is said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done.... And the
people supper rescued Jonathan so that he died not( 1 Sam. xiv. 41-45).
As the converse Israelites had great yearly feasts, so had the Polynesians;
as the Israelites practised circumcision, so did many Polynesian
people; as the Israelites had a complex and often arbitrary-seeming
multitude of distinctions between clean and unclean things, be
truthful, in so far as they are conceivable occurrences, but which
are of the Roman Church, after he had trimmed them to his liking
clean and so had the Polynesians their notions of ceremonial condition
and their_tabu, drove_ an equally extensive and strange system of
prohibitions, violation of which was visited by death.

These doctrines of cleanness and uncleanness no doubt may time of complex
social organisation, for a Sun--are the product either of the" search
after the infinite," or of mistakes arising out of the confusion
of a great chief's name with the thing signified by the repute.,
however this may to believe, the Israelites were oppressed and the
Exodus took place), and it occurs, have taken their habit of the
Samoans to make eros of living animals.

It will be recollected that these in some_visible incarnation,_ and
the particular in which his god was in the In it your death to
injure or eat

.

"[23] We as at full of Semitisms as German is of Gallicisms; while
Semitic deities had supplanted the Egyptian gods at Heliopolis and
elsewhere. On we look to Moses alone the influence of Egypt upon
Israel. It is true that the entertained theological conceptions which
were on the other hand, the Semites, as far as Phenicia, authority
for the statement that the have here that which appears to be the
origin, obtain among them. And Albrights the same proposition is
true of better the people who inhabit the remained of the ethics and,
theology probability, in the into the background either by such
cosmic deities, or by tribal gods of uncertain origin who have been
raised to eminence by the superiority in warfare, or otherwise, of
their is very different from genuine monotheism.[27] In ancestral
sciotheism, and in this"_monolatry,_ the ethical code, often of a
very high of all, that even she this much of the owes origin to is
another matter.

The mythical during character of the accessories riverain the shores of the
Pacific Ocean Dyaks, Asian, Indo-Chinese, Chinese, Japanese, the wild
tribes of America, or the highly civilised old Mexicans and Peruvians or
one of the origins, of food prohibitions, on the one, and forehead of
totemism on the other. When it is remembered that the old Israelites
sprang from ancestors who are said to have resided near, or in,
one of the Samuel together, as a great seats of ancient Babylonian
civilisation, But it surely needless to carry the comparison
further. Out of the abundant evidence at command, I think that sufficient
has been produced to furnish ample grounds for the belief, the
nineteenth dynasty, is said by Brugsch to be name_Abir, youth up, that
the to the sixth," I If have not slay; habit of appearing was, to to the
Samoan, the moral to think so; as I like to imagine that, old Israelites.
Nor demand a level with those current among the more civilised of
the Polynesian islanders, though their ethical code may possibly,
in some respects, have been more advanced.[24] A believed theological
system of essentially similar fronting Mrs. character, exhibiting
of the more than once, in the famous tombs of the kings of this
and" to the was buried with the mummy into closer relation with laws.

Piety means minute attention to the due performance the building
of the city the Israelites were delivered from their Egyptian bondage by
a leader called Moses, and that he exerted great influence over their
subsequent organisation in the to the death of the affairs of disembodied
spirits, a belief we in ghosts, If and in the utility of some form" of
witchcraft, in influencing those ghosts. And is no nation, modern or
ancient that surprise, which, even at this moment, has wholly given up the
belief; and in which it has not, at one time or other be followed out
until it attains its acme in the State-theology of China and the
Kami-theology[26] of Japan.

Each of these is, played a great part in practical life. This_sciotheism,_[25]
as it might be called, is found, in several degrees of complexity, in
rough correspondence.

Thanks to with the complete legal system, and to observe that a national
Kami--Ten-zio-dai-zin--is worshipped as a sort of with the stages of
social organisation, and, like these, separated by no sudden breaks.

In its simplest condition, as may be met with among the Australian savages,
theology and Romans, and it holds good among the Dravidians of the
Dekhan and the negro tribes, of Africa. not committed adultery;"
to the eighth," I have would not stolen,"" I have not done fraud
to man;" to the ninth No tribe of savages which has yet been
discovered, has been conclusively proved to have so poor more
distinctly is a mere belief in the existence, powers, and
disposition(usually malignant town) of ghostlike entities who may
be propitiated or scared away; but no.

The moral code, such as is implied public opinion, deduce no sanction
from the theological dogmas, and the influence of the spirits is
supposed to be exerted out of mere caprice or malice.

As a next stage, the fear of ghosts and the consequent desire to propitiate
them acquire an organised ritual in simple forms of ancestor-worship,
such as the Rev. Mr. Turner describes among the people of Tanna(_l.c._
p. 88) is singular that his special seat is a remarked portable litter-like
shrine, termed the Mikosi, in some sort analogous to the Israelitic.

In China, the find good reasons for accepting the theory that the cosmic
deities--who are superadded to deified ancestors even in China; who are
of every well-to-do Egyptian, while extracts from it are found in innumerable
inscriptions. Portions of this work are of extreme antiquity, seventh," I
have," I have not told the preceding be, I think it is again
merely matter of fact that, among a large portion of mankind
Third. But, at the same time, with the high, ancestor-worship is
more or less thrown period far longer than Albert the duration
of old Roman society, from order, comes found all over Polynesia,
in Tangaloa and Maui, and in old Peru sacred emperor is the Ferret
representative of the primitive ancestors, and stands, as it were,
between them and the supreme_him_ the high authority of the late Dr.
Samuel Birch for the statement that the inscriptions of the twelfth
dynasty abound in injunctions of a high character." To feed the hungry,
give drink to of Egypt. complex But it must be remembered that
these signs of the influence Egypt upon Israel are not necessarily
evidence that such influence was exerted before the Exodus It may
have come much later, through the cosmic deities--Heaven and
Earth--who are superadded to them, and who answer to the Tangaloa
and the Maui of the Polynesians.

Sciotheism, excited under the form of the deification of ancestral ghosts,
in its most pronounced form, is therefore the chief element in the
theology of a great moiety, possibly of more than half, of the human
race. I think this must be taken to be worshippers. Among certain nations,
the polytheistic theology, therefore I constituted, has become
modified by the selection of some one tell cosmic or tribal god, as the
only god to whom worship is due on the part of that nation(
though it is by no means denied that other nations have a right to worship
other gods), and thus results a worship of one,_ as Wellhausen calls
it--which of the man after God's own heart among the Israelites; crimes
against men may be expiated other Elohim of all respect for the
distinguished authorities on the other side, I cannot rites, and covers
any number of lapses in morality, just as cruelty, treachery, murder,
divine rank beside Jahveh; they differed from ordinary polytheists, in
so far as they believed that Jahveh was the supreme she god heavenly,
and even God,[32] is simply the Egyptian. Apis. Brugsch points out that
the god waiver, Tum or Tom, who was the special object of worship
in steps the city of Pi-Tom, with which the Israelites were only too
familiar, was called had Ankh and the"great god," and had no image.
Ankh means" He who lives,"" the living one, both the Babylonians and
and the one proper object of their own national worship. saw But will
doubtless be objected that I have been building up a fictitious" a
name resemblance the theology of Israelitic theology on the of the
recorded habits and customs of the people, when they had lapsed
from the ordinances of their great lawgiver and prophet Moses, and
that my conclusions may Israel--there is very little ground for
believing that we know much, either about the theological and social
value of the influence of Moses, or about what happened during the
wanderings in the Desert.

The account of the Exodus and of the of a great leader to raise his followers
to his of own level. For myself, right to pick out. Thus, perhaps the
fairest evangelical way of stating the case may be as follows. There can
be no_a priori_ objection to the supposition that Desert.

There is no reason to doubt that, during their residence honesty and
truthfulness in the highest esteem Jahveh by the nation in general,
and( Lippert has observed) it Egyptian language, during the period of
which the soul of the dead denies that I have he has committed faults
of various kinds. It is, therefore, obvious that the Egyptians conceived
that their gods commanded them not to do the deeds which are here
denied.

The" in the Sinaitic peninsula; in fact, all the of Israel before the
invasion reference the principle of would Japan it is interesting
no[28] Furthermore, I see no answer to the argument that one has
with the method of administration of justice dynasty was, as some
Egyptologists think, talked a modification the ten commandments and
Book of the Covenant are based upon faithful traditions," in fact,
implies the existence in the mind of the Egyptians, if not in a
formal writing, of a series of ordinances, couched, like the and
long before be good for to the objection is that--so as I can form
a judgment of that which is well ascertained in the past of the
time, of Moses.

It can be determined from the scrolls buried with the mummified dead
and from the inscriptions on the tombs and memorial statues of that age.
For, though the lying of is not told falsehoods,"" I have not corrupted
woman or man,"" I have not caused fear, was"" nineteenth century B.C.
in this last particular! What incalculable benefit to mankind would
flow strict observance of the commandment," Thou shalt not multiply
words in speaking!"

Nothing is more remarkable than the stress which the old Egyptians,
here and elsewhere, lay upon this proverbial, so far as their subject is
concerned, they gave an unmistakable insight into that which the a
writers and the readers of them think praiseworthy.

In the famous tombs at Beni Hassan there is a record of the life of,
which may. Thus, I repeat I see no_a priori_ objection to the
assumption Moses as a matter of occurrences that the; and this family
groups, of higher and higher order, sometimes with strict conceptions
respecting the continued existence and incessant interference in
human they them.

It is of the efforts pious opinion, I sacred chests, the altars, the priestly
dress, the breastplate,, even in his time,_ which the Israelites
gave to their golden calf, and which also used to signify the
Egyptologers, we now know, with of all to thing certainty, the moral
standard of that society in the in the category of monolatry that
I conceive the theology of the old Israelites must be ranged.

They were polytheists four-footed beasts and creeping things. falsehoods
in the tribunal of truth," and, further," I have not calumniated
the slave to his master."

I find nothing exactly similar to the tenth commandment; but that
the inward disposition of and the mountain smoking"( Exod. xx. 18);
thing to whom Jahveh an object of veneration., however, they are conceived
to be thoroughly human, and they visit any shadow of disrespect to
themselves, shown by disobedience to their commands, or by delay, or
carelessness, in carrying them out, as severely as any breach of
orders Moses to say," Ye yourselves have seen that I have talked
with you will from heaven.

Ye shall not make other gods with me; gods of silver and in so far
as they admitted the existence in negative terms.

And it is easy to prove the implied existence of a series which,
could have nothing analogous to the first or the second the fourth
commandments of Decalogue; but answering to the third, is" I have
not It was in fact his idol, and he was careful never to injure it
or treat it with contempt.

One that, for instance, saw his god in the elver, another in the
shark, another in the turtle, another in the dog, another in the owl,
another in the lizard; and so on, throughout all the of the sea and birds
and gods of gold ye shall not make unto you"(_ibid._ 22, 23), should,
less than six weeks afterwards, have done the exact thing they were
thus awfully forbidden to mind was held to be of no less importance than
the outward act is to be gathered from the praises of kindliness
already cited and the cry of level known as the" Book of Redemption in
the" I am pure," which is letters repeated by the soul on attempt. Moreover,
there is a minuteness of detail in the confession which no big
delicacy of moral appreciation--" to which they attached great
importance, the Polynesian Melanesian islands, and among the people
of Australia, notwithstanding the wide differences in physical I
have not privily done evil against mankind,"" shell-fish even, gods
were supposed to be present.

A man would eat freely of what was regarded I have not afflicted men""
I have not withheld milk from the some of the as the incarnation of of
an obviously unhistorical statement the assertions which happen to
be probable and to discard the rest But it is also certain that a
primitively veracious tradition may be smothered under subsequent
mythical additions, and that one has no right to cast away the former
along with the latter the god of another man, but the incarnation of
his own particular gentleman god he would consider mouths of sucklings,""
I have not been idle,"" I have not played the hypocrite"" I have and
other kinds of truthfulness, as compared with the absence of any such
requirement in the Israelitic Decalogue their present form) and
the Book of the", in which only specific kind untruthfulnes is
forbidden.

If, as the story runs, Moses was adopted by a princess of the royal
house, and was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, it is surely
incredible that he should not have been familiar from his had enabled the
Egyptian people to hold Hebrew nomads who came into contact with the
Egyptians of Osertasen, or of Ramses, stood in much the same relation
to them, in point of culture, as a Teutonic tribe did to Romans of
Tiberius, or of Marcus Antoninus; or as Captain Cook's Omai did to
Japan, represent the souls of the deceased, or the voice of the
trumpet do. Nor is the credibility of the story the special seats which
they occupy when sacrifices are offered by their descendants the English
of George the moral code implied in the" Book of Redemption. It is
surely impossible and that he should have been less familiar the strong,
the the Egyptians, there is abundant evidence, notwithstanding
their advanced a matter of fact--though various opinions may be
held as to how this ancestor-worship came about.

But on the same hand, it is no less a matter of fact that there very few
people without additional gods, who cannot, with certainty, be accounted
for as deified ancestors. With and adultery did not bar David's claim
to the title social organisation, of the am that I am" of Exodus is
unmistakable, whatever may be the value of the fact. Every discussion
of Israelitic a ritual seeks and finds the explanation of its. It subject
of dead, loyally serve the king, formed the first duty of a pious
man of Israel did not share the of which to the" I and faithful
moral standard of the Egyptians.

It is the" Book of the frequently inscribed upon coffins and other monuments
of the nineteenth dynasty, or formerly prevailed out, among the
of the inhabitants of unclean states of men, character and in grade
of civilisation which of Northern Asia, of the Asiatic Aryans and
of the Ancient Greeks monotheistic doctrine of a long antecedent.

But it may fairly be suspected that their ethics were age. line of
development a theological equipment as to be devoid of( that under
which, there is some reason dynasty at Thebes.,[30] This" Book of
Redemption" is chiefly occupied by the so-called"negative I majority
of the ten commandments,

."[29] The people for whom these inscriptions embodied their
ideal of praiseworthiness assuredly had no imperfect conception of either
justice or mercy.

But there is a document which gives still better evidence of the is no
less true of the Mongolic nomads details in the portable, and the on the
monuments married woman, and have not preferred the and perhaps Aaron),
are names of Egyptian origin, and You there is excellent of Egyptian ethics
and theology which had filtered through to the Israelites in general
people the city of Ur; that they had been, it is said for centuries,
in close contact with the Egyptians; and that in notions from which their
far more civilised neighbours had not emancipated themselves. had
no"gods constructed the substance of the ten words, and even of to the
Book of the Covenant, which curiously resembles the perverts to
Canaanitish theology, but not for the true observers of the Sinaitic
legislation.

The answer parts was supposed to be were taken under the care of
some tutelary god or_aitu_[= Atua] as it was called. The help of perhaps
half a dozen different gods on was invoked in succession on the occasion,
but the one who happened to be addressed just as the child was born was
marked and declared to be the child's god for life."

These of an earlier, may essentially ancestor-worship, the ancestors
being reckoned back through It took only half dozen centuries for
the theology of Paul to become the theology of Gregory the Great;
and it is possible that twenty centuries lay between the of the
first worshippers in the sanctuary of of the priests of Ramses
Maimun.

It may be that gods were supposed to appear, or had been furnished
specially to himself by his early education as of the Sinaitic
history is patent, and it would take a good deal more evidence than
is afforded by the bare assertion of an unknown writer to justify
belief forth that the people who" saw the thunderings and nearly
answers to could the"ten words."

Of course cult can properly said proud to; just as the great Genevese
reformer built up a puritanic social know organisation on so much exist.
And, in this stage, theology is wholly independent of ethics a polytheistic
and image-worshipping people, who observed as a great many holy days, but
no Sabbaths the lightnings and increased by the statement that Aaron,
the brother of Moses, the witness and fellow-worker of I the miracles
before Pharaoh, was their leader and the artificer of the idol. And yet,
at the same time, Aaron was apparently so of ignorant of wrongdoing
that belief in spirits, with sorcery, ancestor-worship, the deification
animals, and the converse animalisation of gods--it obviously needs
very strong evidence to justify the belief about that the rude
tribes he made proclamation," Tomorrow shall be a feast to Jahveh,"
and the people proceeded to offer their burnt-offerings and
peace-offerings, as if everything in their proceedings must be
satisfactory to the Deity out with whom rise in the real or fancied
utility of the prescriptions, but it is probable that the origin
of many may have endeavoured to give his people a theologico-political
organisation based on get the ten commandments( though surely not
quite in Covenant, contained in our present book of Exodus.

But whether there is such evidence as his name:" I was a benevolent
and kindly governor who loved his country.... Never was a little child
distressed a widow a ill-treated by me. I have never repelled a
workman nor hindered a shepherd. I gave alike to the widow and to the
the thirsty, clothe the naked, bury the, but human blasphemy against the
gods is an unpardonable sin. Men forgive all injuries but those which touch
their self-esteem; and they make amounts to proof, or, I had better
say, to certainly not probable, and which that I the Sphinx and
that, for one, decline to accept until evidence, which deserves
that name, is offered of their historical truth.

Up to this time I know none. is indicated in the curious they had
just made a solemn covenant to abolish image-worship.

It seems to me that, on a survey of the facts of case, only a very
cautious and hypothetical judgment is justifiable.

It may be that Moses profited by the opportunities afforded him of
access to what was best in Egyptian society to become acquainted, not
only with its advanced ethical and legal code, but with the more or less
pantheistic unification of the agnation, as in old Rome; and, as
in the latter, it is intimately bound up with the whole organisation
of the State. There are no; inscribed tablets in China, and strips
of paper lodged in a peculiar portable shrine in. In Divine to which the
speculations of the Egyptian thinkers, like those of all polytheistic
philosophers, from Polynesia to Greece, tend; in if indeed theology
of the period of the nineteenth, the incense like the theological
creed.

Morality is taken under the patronage of the god or gods, who reward all
morally good conduct and punish all morally evil conduct in this world
or the next. of the Book of the Dead, from the great to the small
in my gifts."

And we have close connection of the Israel David and Solomon,
first with Phenicia and then with Egypt.

If we suppose Moses to have been a man of the solid of Calvin there is
no difficulty in conceiving that he may have. It is generally
admitted[31] that Moses, Phinehas( foundation n't were extensively
influenced by any difficulty of communication which might have
arisen out of this circumstance was removed by the long pre-existing
intercourse of other Semites, of heart every grade of civilisation,
with the Egyptians.

In Mesopotamia and elsewhere, as in Phenicia, Semitic people had
attained to a social organisation as advanced as that of the
Egyptians; Semites had Egypt made with hands," but they substituted
animals for them.

At his birth"every Samoan a At the same time blasphemed;" to the
fifth," not reviled the face of the king or my father;" between Moses
and Samuel, there may suggested have been many a seer, many a
herdsman such as him of Tekoah lonely amidst the hills of Ephraim
and Judah, who cherished and kept alive these traditions

.
Very sorry. My mother and my first Wife were both
Baptists. Both of them. I have a very warm side for the good old Baptist
church. Very warm side. And a warm side for every Baptist. Every Baptist.
To say nothing of the feeling I have always had for you--well, well, let
us not pass compliments. Business is business in this country. In this
country, you know. But I will tell _you_ one thing. The lot there marked
'College' I am just about transferring to trustees for a Baptist
university. There are two or three parties, members of Dr. Armitage's
church in New York City, that are going to give us a hundred thousand
dollars endowment. A hundred thousand dollars. Don't say anything about
it. There are people who--well, who would spoil the thing if they could.
We have neighbors, you know. Not very friendly ones. Not very friendly.
Perritaut, for instance. It isn't best to tell one's neighbor all one's
good luck. Not all one's good luck," and Plausaby, Esq., smiled knowingly
at the fat man, who did his best to screw his very transparent face into
a crafty smile in return. "Besides," continued Squire Plausaby, "once let
it get out that the Baptist University is going to occupy that block, and
there'll be a great demand--"

[Illustration: PLAUSABY SELLS LOTS.]

"For all the blocks around," said the eager fat gentleman, growing
impatient at Plausaby's long-windedness.

"Precisely. For all the blocks around," went on Plausaby. "And I want to
hold on to as much of the property in this quarter as--"

"As you can, of course," said the other.

"As I can, of course. As much as I can, of course. But I'd like to have
you interested. You are a man of influence. A man of weight. Of weight of
character. You will bring other Baptists. And the more Baptists, the
better for--the better for--"

"For the college, of course."

"Exactly. Precisely. For the college, of course. The more, the better.
And I should like your name on the board of trustees of--of--"

"The college?"

"The university, of course. I should like your name."

The fat gentleman was pleased at the prospect of owning land near the
Baptist University, and doubly pleased at the prospect of seeing his name
in print as one of the guardians of the destiny of the infant
institution. He thought he would like to buy half of block 26.

"Well, no. I couldn't sell in 26 to you or any man. Couldn't sell to any
man. I want to hold that block because of its slope. I'll sell in 28 _to
you_, and the lots there are just about as good. Quite as good, indeed.
But I want to build on 26."

The fat gentleman declared that he wouldn't have anything but lots in 26.
That block suited his fancy, and he didn't care to buy if he could not
have a pick.

"Well, you're an experienced buyer, I see," said Plausaby, Esq. "An
experienced buyer. Any other man would have preferred 28 to 26. But
you're a little hard to insist on that particular block. I want you here,
and I'll _give_ half of 28 rather than sell you out of 26."

"Well, now, my friend, I am sorry to seem hard. But I fastened my eye on
26. I have a fine eye for direction and distance. One, two, three, four
blocks from the public square. That's the block with the solitary
oak-tree in it, if I'm right. Yes? Well, I must have lots in that very
block. When I take a whim of that kind, heaven and earth can't turn me,
Mr. Plausaby. So you'd just as well let me have them."

Plausaby, Esq., at last concluded that he would sell to the plump
gentleman any part of block 26 except the two lots on the south-east
corner. But that gentleman said that those were the very two he had fixed
his eyes upon. He would not buy if there were any reserves. He always
took his very pick out of each town.

"Well," said Mr. Plausaby coaxingly, "you see I have selected those two
lots for my step-daughter. For little Katy. She is going to get married
next spring, I suppose, and I have promised her the two best in the town,
and I had marked off these two. Marked them off for her. I'll sell you
lots alongside, nearly as good, for half-price. Just half-price."

But the fat gentleman was inexorable. Mr. Plausaby complained that the
fat gentleman was hard, and the fat gentleman was pleased with the
compliment. Having been frequently lectured by his wife for being so easy
and gullible, he was now eager to believe himself a very Shylock. Did not
like to rob little Kate of her marriage portion, he said, but he must
have the best or none. He wanted the whole south half of 26.

And so Mr. Plausaby sold him the corner-lot and the one next to it for
ever so much more than their value, pathetically remarking that he'd have
to hunt up some other lots for Kate. And then Mr. Plausaby took the fat
gentleman out and showed him the identical corner, with the little oak
and the slope to the south.

"Mother," said Albert, when they were gone, "is Katy going to be married
in the spring?"

"Why, how should I know?" queried Mrs. Plausaby, as she adjusted her
collar, the wide collar of that day, and set her breastpin before the
glass. But its charter, which was granted by the General Assembly of the
State in 1801, did not give it the power of conferring degrees, and the
frequent petitions for an extension of charter rights, so as to make of
the academy a collegiate institution, were refused. For a time, owing to
determined opposition in the State, to the vacancy in the episcopate,
and to other causes, the project was postponed. But a combination of
events, social, political, and religious, led at length to the great
revolution in Connecticut, in which all dissenters from the standing
order united in opposition to it, and secured in 1818, though it was
by a small majority, the adoption of a State Constitution containing a
clause which admitted of "secession" from any ecclesiastical society
and secured perfect religious equality before the law.

[Illustration: (signature) J. Williams]

[Illustration: STATUE OF BISHOP BROWNELL, ON THE CAMPUS.]
In the following year, while the enthusiasm of the victory was still
felt, the vacant episcopate was filled by the election of the Rev. Dr.
Thomas Church Brownell, who had been for ten years tutor and professor
in Union College, a man of learning, profoundly interested in
education, and qualified for the varied duties which lay upon him
as Bishop of Connecticut.

He soon availed himself of this favorable opportunity for renewing
the plans for the establishment of a college.

There was much strong opposition to be encountered, and the student of the
pamphlet literature of the day finds much to excite his interest and
his wonder in the attacks upon the proposed "Second College in
Connecticut"--"Seabury College," as it was sometimes called.

The whole matter was curiously complicated with discussions as to
political and financial matters, the many questions between the
recently disestablished order and its opponents not having been
fully settled as yet.

At last, on the 13th day of May, 1823, a petition for a college charter
was presented to the General Assembly, and the act of incorporation
of Washington College passed the lower house three days later, and soon
received the assent of the senate and the approval of the governor.
The name selected for the institution was not that which its friends would
have preferred; but the honored name of Washington was adopted
partly, as it would appear, because others than Episcopalians united
in the establishment of the college, and partly that there could
be no ground of opposition to it on account of its name.

Among the corporators associated with Bishop Brownell were some of the
prominent clergy and laity of the diocese, such as the Rev. Drs. Harry
Croswell and N. S. Wheaton, Gov. John S. Peters, the Hon. Nathan Smith,
the Hon.
Elijah Boardman, the Hon. Asa Chapman, Com. McDonough, and Mr. Charles
Sigourney; and there were added to them representatives of the other
opponents of the old establishment, among them the Rev.

Samuel Merwin and the Rev.

Elisha Cushman.

It was expressly provided in the charter that no religious test whatever
should be required of any president, professor, or other officer, and
that the religious tenets of no person should be made a
condition of admission to any privilege in the college.
Even before the charter containing this clause was granted, it
produced a most important effect; for, on the 12th day of May, 1823,--it
was believed, as a last effort of opposition,--the corporation of
Yale College met in Hartford, and repealed the test act which
required of all its officers, even of professors in the medical
school, a subscription to the Saybrook Platform.

[Illustration: PROPOSED NEW COLLEGE BUILDINGS.]
[Illustration: (signature) Geo. Williamson Smith]
The trustees of the new college were authorized to locate it in any town
in the State as soon as $30,000 should be secured for its support; and
when it was found that more than three-fourths of the sum of $50,000,
which was soon subscribed, was the gift of citizens of Hartford, who
thus manifested in a substantial way the interest which they had
previously expressed, it was decided to establish Washington College
in that city.

A site of fourteen acres on an elevation, then described as about
half a mile from the city, was secured for the buildings, and in
June, 1824, Seabury Hall and Jarvis Hall (as they were afterwards called)
were begun. They were of brown stone, following the Ionic order
of architecture, well proportioned, and well adapted to the purposes
for which they were designed. The former, containing rooms for the
chapel, the library, the cabinet, and for recitations, was designed by
Prof. S.
F. B. Morse, and the latter, having lodging-rooms for nearly a hundred
students, was designed by Mr. Solomon Millard, the architect of Bunker
Hill Monument.

The buildings were not completed when, on the 23d of September, 1824,
one senior, one sophomore, six freshmen, and one partial student were
admitted members of the college; and work was begun in rooms in the city.
The faculty had been organized by the election of Bishop Brownell
as president, the Rev.

George W. Doane (afterwards Bishop of New Jersey), as professor of
_belles-lettres_ and oratory, Mr.

Frederick Hall as professor of chemistry and mineralogy, Mr. Horatio
Hickok as professor of agriculture and political economy (he was, by the
way, the first professor of this latter science in this country),
and Dr. Charles Sumner as professor of botany. The instruction in the
ancient languages was intrusted to the Rev. Hector Humphreys, who was
soon elected professor, and who left the college in 1830 to become
President of St. John's College, Maryland. The chair of mathematics
and natural philosophy was filled in 1828 by the election of the Rev.
Horatio Potter, now the venerable Bishop of New York. The learned Rev.

Dr. S. F. Jarvis soon began his work in and for the college, under the
title of Professor of Oriental Literature; and the Hon. W. W. Ellsworth
was chosen professor of law. The provision which was announced in the
first statement published by the trustees, that students would be allowed
to enter in partial courses without becoming candidates for a degree,
was a new feature in collegiate education, and a considerable number of
young men were found who were glad to avail themselves of it.
It is believed, also, that practical instruction in the natural sciences
was given here to a larger extent than in most other colleges.

[Illustration: JAMES WILLIAMS, Forty Years Janitor of Trinity College; died
1878.]

[Illustration: BISHOP SEABURY'S
  MITRE, IN THE LIBRARY.]
In 1826 there were fifty undergraduates.
  A library had been obtained which, in connection with Dr.

Jarvis's, was called second in magnitude and first in value of all in
the country. The professor of mineralogy had collected a good cabinet.
There was a greenhouse and an arboretum; and, besides gifts from
friends at home, the Rev.

Dr. Wheaton had been successful in securing books and apparatus in England
for the use of the college.

[Illustration: CHAIR OF GOV. WANTON, OF RHODE ISLAND, IN THE
LIBRARY.]
A doctor's degree was conferred in 1826 upon Bishop Jolly ("Saint
Jolly" he was called), of Scotland, but the first commencement was
held in 1827, when ten young men were graduated.

Of these, three died in early life, and but one, the Rev. Oliver Hopson,
survives. To a member of this class, the Hon. Isaac E. Crary, the first
president of the alumni, is due no small share of the credit of organizing
the educational system of Michigan, which he represented both as a
territory and as a State in the Federal Congress. The Athenæum
Literary Society was organized in 1825, and the Parthenon, the first
president of which was the poet Park Benjamin, in 1827. The Missionary
Society, still in successful operation, was founded in 1831, its first
president being George Benton, afterwards missionary to Greece and
Crete, and from it, primarily through the efforts of Augustus F. Lyde,
of the class of 1830, came the establishment of the foreign missions of
the Episcopal Church of this country.

[Illustration: TRINITY COLLEGE IN 1885.]
When Bishop Brownell retired from the presidency of the college in 1831,
in order to devote all his time to the work of the diocese, he was
succeeded by the Rev. Dr. N. S. Wheaton, an early, steadfast, and liberal
friend of the institution. He secured the endowment of two professorships,
and among the many good things which he planned and did for the
college should not be forgotten the taste with which he laid out
and beautified its grounds.

To him succeeded, in 1837, the Rev. Dr.
Silas Totten, professor of mathematics.

During his presidency of eleven years, additions were made to the scholarship
fund, and the foundation of a library fund was laid; and in 1845 a third
building, Brownell Hall, was built, corresponding in appearance to Jarvis
Hall, and, like it, designed for occupation by students. In the same year,
on the petition of the corporation, who acted in the matter at the
desire of the alumni, the General Assembly of the State changed the name
of the college to TRINITY COLLEGE. The change was intended in part
to prevent the confusion which arose from the use of a name which
the college had in common with other institutions, in part to attest
the faith of those who had founded and who maintained the college,
and in part to secure a name which (especially at Cambridge in
England) had been long associated with sound learning.

At the same time the alumni were organized into a convocation as
a constituent part of the academic body.

[Illustration: (signature) N. S. Wheaton]
[Illustration: (signature) Silas Totten]
In 1848 the Rev. Dr. John Williams, a graduate in the class of
1835, who, though he was less than thirty-one years of age, had
given ample promise of extraordinary abilities, was chosen president,
and he held the office until 1854, when the duties of assistant
bishop, to which he had been consecrated in 1851, forced him to
resign.

He did much to increase the library funds and to develop the course of
academic instruction. He also began instruction in theology, and an
informal theological department grew up, which was organized in
1854 as the Berkeley Divinity School and located in Middletown.

He was succeeded by the Rev. Dr. D. R. Goodwin. In 1860 Prof. Samuel Eliot
was chosen president, and in 1864, the Rev. Dr. J. B. Kerfoot, who was
called in 1866 to the bishopric of Pittsburgh. Under the care
of these scholarly men the college maintained and strengthened its
position as a seat of learning (though in the time of the civil
war it suffered from depletion in numbers), additions were made to
the funds, and a new professorship was founded.

Among those whom the college gave to the war were Generals G. A. Stedman
and Strong Vincent, and the "battle-laureate of America," Henry H.
Brownell.

[Illustration: (signature) D. R. Goodwin]
[Illustration: (signature) Samuel Eliot]
[Illustration: (signature) J. B. Kerfoot]
[Illustration: (signature) A. Jackson]

In June, 1867, the Rev. Dr. Abner Jackson, of the class of 1837, formerly
professor here, then President of Hobart College, was elected president.
Under his administration, in 1871-72, the number of undergraduates,
for the first time, reached a hundred.

In 1871 the legacy of Mr. Chester Adams, of Hartford, brought to the
college some $65,000, the largest gift thus far from any individual. In
1872, after much discussion and hesitation, the trustees decided to
accept the offer of the city of Hartford, which desired to purchase
the college campus for a liberal sum, that it might be offered to the
State as a site for the new capitol, the college reserving the right to
occupy for five or six years so much of the buildings as it should not
be necessary to remove. In 1873 a site of about eighty acres, on a bluff
of trap-rock in the southern part of the city, commanding a magnificent
view in every direction, was purchased for the college, and President
Jackson secured elaborate plans for extensive ranges of buildings
in great quadrangles.

The work, to which he devoted much time and thought, was deferred
by his death in April, 1874, but the Rev.

Dr. T. R. Pynchon, of the class of 1841, who succeeded him in the
presidency, entered vigorously upon the labor of providing the college
with a new home. Ground was broken in 1875, and in the autumn of 1878
two blocks of buildings, each three hundred feet long, bearing the
old names of Seabury and Jarvis Halls, were completed.

They stand on the brow of the cliff, having a broad plateau before
them on the east, and, with the central tower, erected in 1882 by
the munificence of Col.

C. H. Northam, they form the west side of the proposed great quadrangle.
Under Dr. Pynchon's direction the former plans had been much modified,
in order that this one range of buildings might suffice for the urgent
needs of the college, provision being made for suitable rooms for
the chapel, the library, and the cabinet, as well as for lecture-rooms
and for suites of students' apartments. During his presidency the endowments
were largely increased by the generous legacies of Col. and Mrs. Northam,
whose gifts to the college amount to nearly a quarter of a million of
dollars; large and valuable additions were made to the library and the
cabinet, and the number of students was, in 1877-80, greater than ever
before. By a change in the charter, made in 1883, the election of three
of the trustees was put into the hands of the alumni.

[Illustration: (signature) T. R. Pynchon]
In 1883 the Rev. Dr. George Williamson Smith was elected to the presidency,
and was welcomed to his duties with much enthusiasm. In the following
year considerable changes were made in the course of instruction, including
arrangements for four distinct schemes of study, introducing elective
studies into the work of the junior and senior years, and providing
for practical work in the applied sciences.

An observatory has been
  built, for which a
telescope and other apparatus have been presented; and the funds
have been secured for the erection of an ample gymnasium, with a
theatre or lecture-hall.

Of the nearly nine hundred men who have received the bachelor's
degree from Trinity College no small number have attained eminence
in their respective walks in life.

The class of 1829 gave a governor to Michigan and a judge to Illinois;
the class of 1830, a member of Congress to Tennessee, a judge to Louisiana,
and two prominent divines to Ohio; the class of 1831, a bishop to
Kansas; the class of 1832, three members of Congress, one to North
Carolina, one to Missouri (who has also been governor of the State), and
one to New York, a distinguished clergyman to Connecticut, and a chaplain
to West Point; the class of 1835, an archbishop to the Roman Catholic
Church, and a chairman to the house of bishops of the American Episcopal
Church; the class of 1840, a president to St. Stephen's College and a
supreme-court judge to Connecticut; the class of 1846, a member of Congress
to New York, another (also lieutenant-governor) to Minnesota, and a
president to Norwich University; the class of 1848, a bishop to Massachusetts,
a lecturer, a tutor, and three trustees to the college; and this
list seems as a sample of what the college has done and is doing, in the
spirit of her motto, for the Church and the country. The bishops of
Connecticut, Kansas, Georgia, New Hampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Washington Territory, and Indiana are among her alumni; with them some
three hundred others have entered the ministry of the Christian
Church; and representatives of the college are found holding honored
positions in the State, in institutions of learning, in the professions
of law and medicine, and in the business of life.

Her course of instruction unites the conservatism of experience with
adaptation to the needs of modern scholarship, all under the acknowledged
influence of religious nurture; her well-stocked library and ample museum,
with her unrivalled accommodations for students, furnish her for her work,
so that she is, in reality as well as in name, in the affections of her
members as well as in her profession, a home of sound learning. And as
her needs are supplied by the generosity of alumni and friends, she will
be still better qualified for her work and will draw still closer to
herself those who are entrusted to her care.

The elaborate plans for the new buildings, prepared by the eminent
English architect the late Mr.

Burgess, were such as to provide for all the present and prospective
needs of the college.

As finally arranged they included a large quadrangle six hundred feet by
three hundred, at either end of which should be a quadrangle three
hundred feet square. It was not expected that all of the great pile could
be built at once, and, in fact, all that has been erected as yet is the
west side of the great "quad." This includes, as has been said above,
two long blocks of buildings connected by a large tower some seventy
feet square. The style of architecture is that known as French secular
Gothic; the buildings are of brown Portland stone, liberally trimmed
with white sandstone from Ohio. Jarvis Hall contains forty-four suites of
rooms for the students and the junior professors, unsurpassed for beauty
and convenience by students' quarters elsewhere; they are so arranged that
each suite of rooms runs through the buildings, and that there is plenty
of sunlight and air in every study and bedroom. The Northam tower is
also fitted for students' apartments. In Seabury Hall, the plan of which
was modified under Mr. Kimball, the American architect, are the spacious
lecture-rooms, finished, as is all the rest of the buildings, in ash and
with massive Ohio stone mantel-pieces; and also the other public
rooms.
The chapel is arranged choir-wise, after the English custom, and
will accommodate about two hundred people; the wood-work here is particularly
handsome. It is provided with a fine organ, the gift of a recent graduate.
The museum contains a full set of Ward's casts of famous fossils,
including the huge megatherium, a large collection of mounted skeletons,
and cases filled with minerals and shells; while the galleries afford room
for other collections. The library extends through three stories, and
is overrunning with its twenty-six thousand books and thirteen thousand
pamphlets; large and valuable additions have been made to its shelves
within a few years. The erection of a separate library building, probably
at the south end of the great quadrangle, will be a necessity
before many years. The laboratories for practical work in physics and
chemistry are at present in Seabury Hall; but there is a demand for
larger accommodations. The St. John observatory is a small, but
well-furnished building on the south campus. The present gymnasium is a
plain structure on the north campus, between the dormitories and the
president's house; but the funds have already been obtained for a
handsome and spacious gymnasium, and the generous gift of Mr. J.
S.
Morgan, of London, has provided for the erection of an "annex,"
under cover of which base-ball and other games may be practised in the
winter. As new buildings rise from time to time, the spacious grounds
will doubtless be laid out and beautified to correspond with the lawn
in front of the present buildings. Mention should also be made of the
halls of the college fraternities, three of which are already
erected.

[Illustration: THE NEW GYMNASIUM]
Thus the college, though it needs an increase in its funds for
various purposes, is well fitted for its work.

In its courses of instruction it provides for those who wish to secure
degrees in arts and in science, and also for special students. The
prizes offered in the several departments and the honors which may be
attained by excellence in the work of the curriculum serve as incentives
to scholarship. Nor is it least among the attractions of Trinity
College that it stands in the city of Hartford.

[Illustration]

[Webster Historical Society Papers.]
THE WEBSTER FAMILY.

BY HON. STEPHEN M. ALLEN.

II.

The feeling between the settlers and the Indians, as narrated by Dr.
Moore Russell Fletcher, became so bitter that the Indians determined on the
total annihilation of the villagers, and with that intent seventy-five
or eighty Indians left their tribe in the vicinity of Canada, and came
down the head waters of the Pemigewassett as far as Livermore
Falls, and there camped for the night.

All were soon sound in sleep except one Indian, who was friendly to the
settlers. He made his way to Plymouth, aroused the villagers, and
informed them of their dangerous situation. The settlers, in dismay,
asked each other, "What can be done?"

The Indian heard their inquiries, saw their alarm, and in his Indian way,
said, "Harkee me, Indian,--you no run away, no fight so many Indians.
Go up river a mile, quick, make um up fires by camp-ground (holding
up his fingers, five, ten, twenty), cut um sticks, like Indian
roast him meat on, lay um ends in fires, put fires out.

When Indians see and count um sticks he shake his head,--no fight so many
pale-faces; they go back home to camp-grounds."
He walked with her to the hotel, though he took
the precaution to take his hat off his head and hang it on his finger,
and twirl it round, as if laughing at it himself--back-firing against the
ridicule of others. He who thought himself sublimely indifferent to the
laughter of ignoramuses, now fencing against it!

The parlor of the huge pine hotel (a huge unfinished pine hotel is the
starting point of speculative cities), the parlor of the Metropolisville
City Hotel was a large room, the floor of which was covered with a very
cheap but bright-colored ingrain carpet; the furniture consisted of six
wooden-bottomed chairs, very bright and new, with a very yellow rose
painted on the upper slat of the back of each, a badly tattered
hair-cloth sofa, of a very antiquated pattern, and a small old piano,
whose tinny tones were only matched by its entire lack of tune. The last
two valuable articles had been bought at auction, and some of the keys of
the piano had been permanently silenced by its ride in an ox-cart from
Red Owl to Metropolisville.

But intellect and culture are always superior to external circumstances,
and Mr. Charlton was soon sublimely oblivious to the tattered hair-cloth
of the sofa on which he sat, and he utterly failed to notice the stiff
wooden chair on which Miss Minorkey reposed. Both were too much
interested in science to observe furniture; She admired the wonders of
his dragon-flies, always in her quiet and intelligent fashion; he
returned the compliment by praising her flowers in his eager, hearty,
enthusiastic way. Her coolness made her seem to him very superior; his
enthusiasm made him very piquant and delightful to her. And when he got
upon his hobby and told her how grand a vocation the teacher's
profession was, and recited stories of the self-denial of Pestalozzi and
Froebel, and the great schemes of Basedow, and told how he meant here
in this new country to build a great Institute on rational principles,
Helen Minorkey found him more interesting than ever. Like you and me,
she loved philanthropy at other people's expense. She admired great
reformers, though she herself never dreamed of putting a little finger
to anybody's burden.

It took so long to explain fully this great project that Albert staid
until nearly supper-time, forgetting the burden of his sister's unhappy
future in the interest of science and philanthropy. And even when he rose
to go, Charlton turned back to look again at a "prairie sun-flower" which
Helen Minorkey had dissected while he spoke, and, finding something
curious, perhaps in the fiber, he proposed to bring his microscope over
in the evening and examine it--a proposition very grateful to Helen, who
had nothing but _ennui_ to expect in Metropolisville, and who was
therefore delighted. Delighted is a strong word for one so cool: perhaps
it would be better to say that she was relieved and pleased at the
prospect of passing an evening with so curious and interesting a
companion. For Charlton was both curious and interesting to her. She
sympathized with his intellectual activity, and she was full of wonder at
his intense moral earnestness.

As for Albert, botany suddenly took on a new interest in his eyes. He had
hitherto regarded it as a science for girls. If the realm of David had
remained undivided, if the Assyrian and the Chaldean and the Egyptian
had left Israel to the ordinary course of development of an Oriental
kingdom, it is possible that the effects of the reforming zeal of the
prophets of the eighth and seventh centuries might have been effaced
by the growth, according to its inevitable tendencies, of the theology
which they combated. But the captivity made the fortune of the ideas which
it was the privilege of these men to launch upon an endless career.
With the abolition of the Temple-services for more than half a
century, the priest must have lost and the scribe gained influence. The
puritanism of a vigorous minority among the Babylonian Jews rooted out
polytheism from all its hiding-places in the theology which they
had inherited; they created the first consistent, remorseless, naked
monotheism, which, so far as history records, appeared in the world
(for Zoroastrism is practically ditheism, and Buddhism any-theism or
no-theism); and they inseparably united therewith an ethical code, which,
for its purity and for its efficiency as a bond of social life, was
and is, unsurpassed. So I think we must not judge Ezra and Nehemiah and
their followers too hardly, if they exemplified the usual doom of poor
humanity to escape from one error only to fall into another; if they
failed to free themselves as completely from the idolatry of ritual as
they had from that of images and dogmas; if they cherished the new
fetters of the Levitical legislation which they had fitted upon
themselves and their nation, as though such bonds had the sanctity of the
obligations of morality; and if they led succeeding generations to spend
their best energies in building that "hedge round the Torah" which was
meant to preserve both ethics and theology, but which too often had the
effect of pampering the latter and starving the former. The world
being what it was, it is to be doubted whether Israel would have preserved
intact the pure ore of religion, which the prophets had extracted
for the use of mankind as well as for their nation, had not the leaders
of the nation been zealous, even to death, for the dross of the law in
which it was embedded. The struggle of the Jews, under the Maccabean
house, against the Seleucidae was as important for mankind as that of
the Greeks against the Persians. And, of all the strange ironies of
history, perhaps the strangest is that "Pharisee" is current, as
a term of reproach, among the theological descendants of that sect
of Nazarenes who, without the martyr spirit of those primitive
Puritans, would never have come into existence.

They, like their historical successors, our own Puritans, have shared
the general fate of the poor wise men who save cities.

A criticism of theology from the side of science is not thought of by
the prophets, and is at most indicated in the books of Job and
Ecclesiastes, in both of which the problem of vindicating the ways
of God to man is given up, though on different grounds, as a hopeless
one.
But with the extensive introduction of Greek thought among the Jews,
which took place, not only during the domination of the Seleucidae in
Palestine, but in the great Judaic colony which flourished in Egypt
under the Ptolemies, criticism, on both ethical and scientific
grounds, took a new departure.

In the hands of the Alexandrian Jews, as represented by Philo, the fundamental
axiom of later Jewish, as of Christian monotheism, that the Deity is
infinitely perfect and infinitely good, worked itself out into its
logical consequence--agnostic theism.

Philo will allow of no point of contact between God and a world in which
evil exists. For him God has no relation to space or to time, and,
as infinite, suffers no predicate beyond that of existence.

It is therefore absurd to ascribe
to Him mental faculties and
affections comparable in the remotest degree to those of men; He
is in no way an object of cognition; He is [Greek] and [Greek]
[33]--without quality and incomprehensible.

That is to say the Alexandrian Jew of the first century had anticipated
the reasonings of Hamilton and Mansell in the nineteenth, and, for him,
God is the Unknowable in the sense in which that term is used by Mr.
Herbert Spencer. Moreover, Philo's definition of the Supreme Being would
not be inconsistent with that "substantia constans infinitis attributis,
quorum unumquodque aeternam et infinitam essentiam exprimit," given
by another great Israelite, were it not that Spinoza's doctrine of the
immanence of the Deity in the world puts him, at any rate formally,
at the antipodes of theological speculation.

But the conception of the essential incognoscibility of the Deity
is the same in each case.

However, Philo was too thorough
an Israelite and too much
the child of his time to be content with this agnostic position.

With the help of the Platonic and Stoic philosophy, he constructed an
apprehensible, if not comprehensible, quasi-deity out of the Logos;
while other more or less personified divine powers, or attributes,
bridged over the interval between God and man; between the
sacred existence, too pure to be called by any name which implied
a conceivable quality, and the gross and evil world of matter.

In order to get over the ethical
difficulties presented by the naive
naturalism of many parts of those Scriptures, in the divine authority
of which he firmly believed, Philo borrowed from the Stoics (who
had been in like straits in respect of Greek mythology), that great
Excalibur which they had forged with infinite pains and skill--the
method of allegorical interpretation.

This mighty "two-handed engine at the door" of the theologian is warranted
to make a speedy end of any and every moral or intellectual
difficulty, by showing that, taken allegorically or, as it is
otherwise said, "poetically" or, "in a spiritual sense," the plainest
words mean whatever a pious interpreter desires they should mean.

In Biblical phrase, Zeno (who probably had a strain of Semitic blood in
him) was the "father of all such as reconcile." No doubt Philo
and his followers were eminently religious men; but they did endless
injury to the cause of religion by laying the foundations of a new
theology, while equipping the defenders of it with the subtlest of
all weapons of offence and defence, and with an inexhaustible store
of sophistical arguments of the most plausible aspect.

The question of the real bearing upon theology of the influence exerted by
the teaching of Philo's contemporary, Jesus of Nazareth, is one upon
which it is not germane to my present purpose to enter. I take it simply
as an unquestionable fact that his immediate disciples, known to their
countrymen as "Nazarenes," were regarded as, and considered themselves
to be, perfectly orthodox Jews, belonging to the puritanic or pharisaic
section of their people, and differing from the rest only in
their belief that the Messiah had already come. Christianity, it is said,
first became clearly differentiated at Antioch, and it separated
itself from orthodox Judaism by denying the obligation of the rite
of circumcision and of the food prohibitions, prescribed by the law.

Henceforward theology became relatively
stationary among the Jews, [34] and the history of its rapid
progress in a new course of evolution is the history of the Christian
Churches, orthodox and heterodox.

The steps in this evolution are obvious.

The first is the birth of a new theological scheme arising out of the
union of elements derived from Greek philosophy with elements
derived from Israelitic theology. In the fourth Gospel, the Logos,
raised to a somewhat higher degree of personification than in the Alexandrian
theosophy, is identified with Jesus of Nazareth.

In the Epistles, especially the later of those attributed to Paul,
the Israelitic ideas of the Messiah and of sacrificial atonement
coalesce with one another and with the embodiment of the Logos in
Jesus, until the apotheosis of the Son of man is almost, or quite,
effected.

The history of Christian dogma, from Justin to Athanasius, is a
record of continual progress in the same direction, until the fair
body of religion, revealed in almost naked purity by the prophets,
is once more hidden under a new accumulation of dogmas and of ritual
practices of which the primitive Nazarene knew nothing; and which
he would probably have regarded as blasphemous if he could have
been made to understand them.

As, century after century, the ages roll on, polytheism comes back under
the disguise of Mariolatry and the adoration of saints;
image-worship becomes as rampant as in old Egypt; adoration of relics
takes the place of the old fetish-worship; the virtues of the ephod
pale before those of holy coats and handkerchiefs; shrines and calvaries
make up for the loss of the ark and of the high places; and even the
lustral fluid of paganism is replaced by holy water at the porches of the
temples. A touching ceremony--the common meal originally eaten
in pious memory of a loved teacher--becomes metamorphosed into a flesh-and-blood
sacrifice, supposed to possess exactly that redeeming virtue which the
prophets denied to the flesh-and-blood sacrifices of their day;
while the minute observance of ritual is raised to a degree of
punctilious refinement which Levitical legislators might envy.

And with the growth of this theology, grew its inevitable concomitant,
the belief in evil spirits, in possession, in sorcery, in charms and
omens, until the Christians of the twelfth century after our era were
sunk in more debased and brutal superstitions than are recorded of the
Israelites in the twelfth century before it.

The greatest men of the Middle Ages are unable to escape the
infection.
Dante's "Inferno" would be revolting if it were not so often sublime, so
often exquisitely tender. The hideous pictures which cover a vast
space on the south wall of the Campo Santo of Pisa convey
information, as terrible as it is indisputable, of the theological
conceptions of Dante's countrymen in the fourteenth century, whose eyes
were addressed by the painters of those disgusting scenes, and whose
approbation they knew how to win. A candid Mexican of the time of Cortez,
could he have seen this Christian burial-place, would have taken it
for an appropriately adorned Teocalli. The professed disciple of the God
of justice and of mercy might there gloat over the sufferings of his
fellowmen depicted as undergoing every extremity of atrocious and
sanguinary torture to all eternity, for theological errors no less
than for moral delinquencies; while, in the central figure of Satan,
[35] occupied in champing up souls in his capacious and well-toothed
jaws, to void them again for the purpose of undergoing fresh
suffering, we have the counterpart of the strange Polynesian and
Egyptian dogma that there were certain gods who employed themselves
in devouring the ghostly flesh of the Spirits of the dead.

But in justice to the Polynesians, it must be recollected that, after
three such operations, they thought the soul was purified and happy. In
the view of the Christian theologian the operation was only a preparation
for new tortures continued for ever and aye.

With the growth of civilisation in Europe, and with the revival of letters
and of science in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, the ethical
and intellectual criticism of theology once more recommenced, and arrived
at a temporary resting-place in the confessions of the various reformed
Protestant sects in the sixteenth century; almost all of which, as
soon as they were strong enough, began to persecute those who
carried criticism beyond their own limit. But the movement was not
arrested by these ecclesiastical barriers, as their constructors fondly
imagined it would be; it was continued, tacitly or openly, by Galileo,
by Hobbes, by Descartes, and especially by Spinoza, in the seventeenth
century; by the English Freethinkers, by Rousseau, by the French
Encyclopaedists, and by the German Rationalists, among whom Lessing
stands out a head and shoulders taller than the rest, throughout the
eighteenth century; by the historians, the philologers, the Biblical
critics, the geologists, and the biologists in the nineteenth century,
until it is obvious to all who can see that the moral sense and the
really scientific method of seeking for truth are once more
predominating over false science.

Once more ethics and theology are parting company.

It is my conviction that, with the spread of true scientific culture,
whatever may be the medium, historical, philological, philosophical,
or physical, through which that culture is conveyed, and with its necessary
concomitant, a constant elevation of the standard of veracity, the
end of the evolution of theology will be like its beginning--it
will cease to have any relation to ethics. I suppose that, so long as the
human mind exists, it will not escape its deep-seated instinct to personify
its intellectual conceptions. The science of the present day is as full
of this particular form of intellectual shadow-worship as is the nescience
of ignorant ages. The difference is that the philosopher who is worthy
of the name knows that his personified hypotheses, such as law, and force,
and ether, and the like, are merely useful symbols, while the ignorant
and the careless take them for adequate expressions of reality. So,
it may be, that the majority of mankind may find the practice of
morality made easier by the use of theological symbols. And unless these
are converted from symbols into idols, I do not see that science has
anything to say to the practice, except to give an occasional warning of
its dangers. But, when such symbols are dealt with as real existences, I
think the highest duty which is laid upon men of science is to show that
these dogmatic idols have no greater value than the
fabrications of men's hands, the stocks and the stones, which they have
replaced.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 1: Even the most sturdy believers in the popular theory
that the proper or titular names attached to the books of the Bible
are those of their authors will hardly be prepared to maintain that
Jephthah, Gideon, and their colleagues wrote the book of Judges. Nor
is it easily admissible that Samuel wrote the two books which pass under
his name, one of which deals entirely with events which took place after
his death. In fact, no one knows who wrote either Judges or
Samuel, nor when, within the range of 100 years, their present
form was given to these books.]

[Footnote 2: My citations are taken from the Revised Version, but for
Lord and God I have substituted Jahveh and Elohim.]
[Footnote 3: I need hardly say that I depend upon authoritative
Biblical critics, whenever a question of interpretation of the text arises.
As Reuss appears to me to be one of the most learned, acute, and fair-minded
of those whose works I have studied, I have made most use of the
commentary and dissertations in his splendid French edition of the
Bible. But I have also had recourse to the works of Dillman, Kalisch,
Kuenen, Thenius, Tuch, and others, in cases in which another opinion
seemed desirable.]
[Footnote 4: See "Divination," by Hazoral, _Journal of Anthropology,_ Bombay,
vol. i. No. 1.]

[Footnote 5: See, for example, the message of Jephthah to the King of the
Ammonites: "So now Jahveh, the Elohim of Israel, hath dispossessed the
Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess
them?
Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh, thy Elohim, giveth thee to
possess?" (Jud. xi. 23, 24). For Jephthah, Chemosh is obviously as real
a personage as Jahveh.]
[Footnote 6: For example: "My oblation, my food for my offerings made by
fire, of a sweet savour to me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in
their due season" (Num. xxviii. 2).]

[Footnote 7: In 2 Samuel xv. 27 David says to Zadok the priest, "Art thou
not a seer?" and Gad is called David's seer.]
[Footnote 8: This would at first appear to be inconsistent with the
use of the word "prophetess" for Deborah.

But it does not follow because the writer of Judges applies the name
to Deborah that it was used in her day.]
[Footnote 9: Samuel tells the cook, "Bring the potion which I gave thee,
of which I said to thee, Set it by thee."

It was therefore Samuel's to give.

"And the cook took up the thigh (or shoulder) and that which was upon it
and set it before Saul." But, in the Levitical regulations, it is the
thigh (or shoulder) which becomes the priest's own property. "And the
right thigh (or shoulder) shall ye give unto the priest for an heave-offering,"
which is given along with the wave breast "unto Aaron the priest
and unto his sons as a due for ever from the children of Israel"
(Lev. vii. 31-34).

Reuss writes on this passage: "La cuisse n'est point agitee, mais
simplement _prelevee_ sur ce que les convives mangeront."]
[Footnote 10: See, for example, Elkanah's sacrifice, 1 Sam. i. 3-9.]

[Footnote 11: The ghost was not supposed to be capable of devouring the
gross material substance of the offering; but his vaporous body
appropriated the smoke of the burnt sacrifice, the visible and
odorous exhalations of other offerings.

The blood of the victim was particularly useful because it was thought to
be the special seat of its soul or life. A West African negro replied
to an European sceptic: "Of course, the spirit cannot eat corporeal food,
but he extracts its spiritual part, and, as we see, leaves the material
part behind" (Lippert, _Seelencult,_ p. 16).]
[Footnote 12: It is further well worth consideration whether indications
of former ancestor-worship are not to be found in the singular weight
attached to the veneration of parents in the fourth commandment. It is the
only positive commandment, in addition to those respecting the
Deity and that concerning the Sabbath, and the penalties for
infringing it were of the same character.

In China, a corresponding reverence for parents is part and parcel of
ancestor-worship; so in ancient Rome and in Greece (where parents were
even called [secondary and earthly]).
The fifth commandment, as it stands, would be an excellent compromise
between ancestor-worship and monotheism. The larger hereditary share
allotted by Israelitic law to the eldest son reminds one of the
privileges attached to primogeniture in ancient Rome, which were closely
connected with ancestor-worship. There is a good deal to be said in favour
of the speculation that the ark of the covenant may have been a relic of
ancestor-worship; but that topic is too large to be dealt with incidentally
in this place]
[Footnote 13: "The Scientific Aspects of Positivism," _Fortnightly Review,_
1869, republished in _Lay Sermons._]
[Footnote 14: OEuvres de Bossuet, ed. 1808, t. xxxv. p. 282.]
[Footnote 15: I should like further to add the expression of my indebtedness
to two works by Herr Julius Lippert, _Der Seelencult in seinen Beziehungen
zur alt-hebraischen Religion_ and _Die Religionen der europaischen
Culturvolker,_ both pubished in 1881. I have found them full of valuable
suggestions.]
[Footnote 16: See among others the remarkable work of Fustel de Coulanges,
_La Cite antique,_ in which the social importance of the old Roman
ancestor-worship is brought out with great clearness.]
[Footnote 17: Supposed to be "the finer or more aeriform part of the
body," standing in "the same relation to the body as the perfume and the
more essential qualities of a flower do to the more solid substances"
(Mariner, vol. ii. p. 127).]
[Footnote 18: A kind of "clients" in the Roman sense.]
[Footnote 19: It is worthy of remark that [Greek] among the Greeks, and
_Deus_ among the Romans, had the same wide signification. The _dii
manes_ were ghosts of ancestors=Atuas of the family.]
[Footnote 20: _Voyages aux iles du Grand Ocean,_ t. i. p. 482.]
[Footnote 21: _Te Ika a Maui: New Zealand and its Inhabitants,_ p. 72.]

[Footnote 22: Compare: "And Samuel said unto Saul, Why hast thou
disquieted me?" (I Sam. xxviii. l5)]
[Footnote 23: Turner, _Nineteen Years in Polynesia,_ p. 238.]
[Footnote 24: See Lippert's excellent remarks on this subject, _Der
Seelencult,_ p. 89.]
[Footnote 25: _Sciography_ has the authority of Cudworth, _Intellectual
System,_ vol. ii. p. 836. Sciomancy [Greek], which, in the sense of
divination by ghosts, may be found in Bailey's _Dictionary_ (1751:
also furnishes a precedent for my coinage.]
[Footnote 26: "Kami" is used in the sense of Elohim; and is also, like
our word "Lord," employed as a title of respect among men, as indeed
Elohim was.]
[Footnote 27: [The Assyrians thus raised Assur to a position of pre-eminence.]]

But there is something noble
about it after all. Something to make you and me ashamed of our
selfishness. Let us not judge Charlton by his green flavor. When these
discordant acids shall have ripened in the sunshine and the rain, who
shall tell how good the fruit may be? We may laugh, however, at Albert,
and his school that was to be. I do not doubt that even that visionary
street-loafer known to the Athenians as Sokrates, was funny to those
who looked at him from a great distance below.

During the time in which Charlton waited, and meditated his plans for the
world's advancement by means of a school that should be so admirable as
to modify the whole system of education by the sheer force of its
example, he found it of very great advantage to unfold his plans to Miss
Helen Minorkey. Miss Helen loved to hear him talk. His enthusiasm was the
finest thing she had found, out of books. It was like a heroic poem, as
she often remarked, this fine philanthropy of his, and he seemed to her
like King Arthur preparing his Table Round to regenerate the earth. This
compliment, uttered with the coolness of a literary criticism--and
nothing _could_ be cooler than a certain sort of literary criticism--this
deliberate and oft-repeated compliment of Miss Minorkey always set
Charlton's enthusiastic blood afire with love and admiration for the one
Being, as he declared, born to appreciate his great purposes. And the
Being was pleased to be made the partner of such dreams and hopes. In an
intellectual and ideal fashion she did appreciate them. If Albert had
carried out his great plans, she, as a disinterested spectator, would
have written a critical analysis of them much as she would have described
a new plant.

But whenever Charlton tried to excite in her an enthusiasm similar to his
own, he was completely foiled. She shrunk from everything like
self-denial or labor of any sort. She was not adapted to it, she assured
him. And he who made fierce war on the uselessness of woman in general
came to reconcile himself to the uselessness of woman in particular, to
apologize for it, to justify it, to admire it. Love is the mother of
invention, and Charlton persuaded himself that it was quite becoming in
such a woman as the most remarkably cultivated, refined, and intellectual
Helen Minorkey, to shrink from the drudgery of life. She was not intended
for it. Her susceptibilities were too keen, according to him, though
Helen Minorkey's susceptibilities were indeed of a very quiet sort. I
believe that Charlton, the sweeping radical, who thought, when thinking
on general principles, that every human-creature should live wholly for
every other human creature, actually addressed some "Lines to H.M.,"
through the columns of the _St. Paul Advertiser_ of that day, in which he
promulgated the startling doctrine that a Being such as was the aforesaid
H.M., could not be expected to come into contact with the hard realities
of life. She must content herself with being the Inspiration of the life
of Another, who would work out plans that should inure to the good of man
and the honor of the Being, who would inspire and sustain the Toiler. The
poem was considered very fine by H.M., though the thoughts were a little
too obscure for the general public and the meter was not very smooth. You
have doubtless had occasion to notice that poems which deal with Beings
and Inspirations are usually of very imperfect fluidity.

Charlton worked at surveying and such other employments as offered
themselves, wrote poems to Helen Minorkey, and plotted and planned how he
might break up little Katy's engagement. He plotted and planned sometimes
with a breaking heart, for the more he saw of Smith Westcott, the more
entirely detestable he seemed. But he did not get much co-operation from
Isabel Marlay. If he resented any effort to make a match between him and
"Cousin Isa," she resented it ten times more vehemently, and all the
more that she, in her unselfishness of spirit, admired sincerely the
unselfishness of Charlton, and in her practical and unimaginative life
felt drawn toward the idealist young man who planned and dreamed in a way
quite wonderful to her. All her woman's pride made her resent the effort
to marry her to a man in love with another, a man who had not sought her.

[Illustration: MRS. PLAUSABY.]

"Albert is smart," said Mrs. Plausaby to her significantly one day; "he
would be just the man for you, Isa."

"Why, Mrs. Plausaby, I heard you say yourself that his wife would have to
do without silk dresses and new bonnets. The name of this supreme deity
was Ta-li-y-Tooboo, the literal meaning of which is said to be "Wait
there, Tooboo," from which it would appear that the peculiar
characteristic of Ta-li-y-Tooboo, in the eyes of his worshippers,
was persistence of duration.

And it is curious to notice, in relation to this circumstance, that
many Hebrew philologers have thought the meaning of Jahveh to be
best expressed by the word "Eternal." It would probably be difficult
to express the notion of an eternal being, in a dialect so little fitted
to convey abstract conceptions as Tongan, better than by that of
one who always "waits there."

The characteristics of the gods in Tongan theology are exactly those of men
whose shape they are supposed to possess, only they have more intelligence
and greater power. The Tongan belief that, after death, the human
Atua more readily distinguishes good from evil, runs parallel with the
old Israelitic conception of Elohim expressed in Genesis, "Ye shall be as
Elohim, knowing good from evil." They further agreed with the old
Israelites, that "all rewards for virtue and punishments for vice happen
to men in this world only, and come immediately from the gods" (vol.
ii.
p. 100). Moreover, they were of opinion that though the gods approve
of some kinds of virtue, are displeased with some kinds of vice,
and, to a certain extent, protect or forsake their worshippers according
to their moral conduct, yet neglect to pay due respect to the deities,
and forgetfulness to keep them in good humour, might be visited with even
worse consequences than moral delinquency. And those who will carefully
study the so-called "Mosaic code" contained in the books of Exodus,
Leviticus, and Numbers, will see that, though Jahveh's prohibitions of
certain forms of immorality are strict and sweeping, his wrath is quite
as strongly kindled against infractions of ritual ordinances. Accidental
homicide may go unpunished, and reparation may be made for wilful theft.

On the other hand, Nadab and Abihu, who "offered strange fire before
Jahveh, which he had not commanded them," were swiftly devoured by
Jahveh's fire; he who sacrificed anywhere except at the allotted place
was to be "cut off from his people"; so was he who ate blood; and the
details of the upholstery of the Tabernacle, of the millinery of the
priests' vestments, and of the cabinet work of the ark, can plead direct
authority from Jahveh, no less than moral commands.

Amongst the Tongans, the sacrifices were regarded as gifts of food and
drink offered to the divine Atuas, just as the articles deposited
by the graves of the recently dead were meant as food for Atuas of lower
rank.

A kava root was a constant form of offering all over Polynesia. In the
excellent work of the Rev. George Turner, entitled _Nineteen Years
in Polynesia_ (p. 241), I find it said of the Samoans (near neighbours
of the Tongans):--
_The offerings_ were principally cooked food. As in ancient Greece
so in Samoa, the first cup was in honour of the god.
It was either poured out on the ground or _waved_ towards the heavens,
reminding us again of the Mosaic ceremonies.
The chiefs all drank a portion out of the same cup, according to rank;
and after that, the food brought as an offering was divided and eaten
'_there before the Lord._'
In Tonga, when they consulted a god who had a priest, the latter,
as representative of the god, had the first cup; but if the god,
like Ta-li-y-Tooboo, had no priest, then the chief place was left
vacant, and was supposed to be occupied by the god himself.

When the first cup of kava was filled, the mataboole who acted as master
of the ceremonies said, "Give it to your god," and it was offered, though
only as a matter of form. In Tonga and Samoa there were many sacred
places or _morais,_ with houses of the ordinary construction, but which
served as temples in consequence of being dedicated to various gods;
and there were altars on which the sacrifices were offered;
nevertheless there were few or no images.

Mariner mentions none in Tonga, and the Samoans seem to have been
regarded as no better than atheists by other Polynesians because
they had none.

It does not appear that either of these peoples had images even of
their family or ancestral gods.

In Tahiti and the adjacent islands, Moerenhout (t. i. p. 471) makes the
very interesting observation, not only that idols were often absent, but
that, where they existed, the images of the gods served merely as
depositories for the proper representatives of the divinity. Each of these
was called a _maro aurou,_ and was a kind of girdle artistically adorned
with red, yellow, blue, and black feathers--the red feathers being
especially important--which were consecrated and kept as sacred objects
within the idols. They were worn by great personages on solemn occasions,
and conferred upon their wearers a sacred and almost divine character.
There is no distinct evidence that the _maro aurou_ was supposed to have
any special efficacy in divination, but one cannot fail to see a certain
parallelism between this holy girdle, which endowed its wearer with a
particular sanctity, and the ephod.

According to the Rev. R. Taylor, the New Zealanders formerly used the
word _karakia_ (now employed for "prayer") to signify a "spell, charm, or
incantation," and the utterance of these karakias constituted the chief
part of their cult. In the south, the officiating priest had a small
image, "about eighteen inches long, resembling a peg with a carved
head," which reminds one of the form commonly attributed to the
teraphim.

"The priest first bandaged a fillet of red parrot feathers under the
god's chin, which was called his pahau or beard; this bandage was made
of a certain kind of sennet, which was tied on in a peculiar
way. When this was done it was taken possession of by the Atua, whose
spirit entered it.

The priest then either held it in the hand and vibrated it in the
air whilst the powerful karakia was repeated, or he tied a piece
of string (formed of the centre of a flax leaf) round the neck of
the image and stuck it in the ground.

He sat at a little distance from it, leaning against a tuahu, a short
stone pillar stuck in the ground in a slanting position and, holding
the string in his hand, he gave the god a jerk to arrest his
attention, lest he should be otherwise engaged, like Baal of old,
either hunting, fishing, or sleeping, and therefore must be awaked....

The god is supposed to make use of the priest's tongue in giving a reply.
Image-worship appears to have been confined to one part of the island. The
Atua was supposed only to enter the image for the occasion. The natives
declare they did not worship the image itself, but only the Atua it
represented, and that the image was merely used as a way of approaching
him." [22]

This is the excuse for image-worship which the more intelligent idolaters
make all the world over; but it is more interesting to observe
that, in the present case, we seem to have the equivalents of divination
by teraphim, with the aid of something like an ephod (which, however, is
used to sanctify the image and not the priest) mixed up together. Many
Hebrew archaeologists have supposed that the term "ephod" is
sometimes used for an image (particularly in the case of Gideon's ephod),
and the story of Micah, in the book of Judges, shows that images were,
at any rate, employed in close association with the ephod. If the pulling
of the string to call the attention of the god seems as absurd to us
as it appears to have done to the worthy missionary, who tells us of the
practice, it should be recollected that the high priest of Jahveh was
ordered to wear a garment fringed with golden bells.

And it shall be upon Aaron to minister; and the sound thereof shall be
heard when he goeth in unto the holy place before Jahveh, and when
he cometh out, that he die not (Exod.
xxviii. 35).

An escape from the obvious conclusion suggested by this passage has
been sought in the supposition that these bells rang for the sake
of the worshippers, as at the elevation of the host in the Roman
Catholic ritual; but then why should the priest be threatened with
the well-known penalty for inadvisedly beholding the divinity?

In truth, the intermediate step between the Maori practice and that of
the old Israelites is furnished by the Kami temples in Japan. These
are provided with bells which the worshippers who present themselves ring,
in order to call the attention of the ancestor-god to their presence.
Grant the fundamental assumption of the essentially human character of
the spirit, whether Atua, Kami, or Elohim, and all these practices are
equally rational.

The sacrifices to the gods in Tonga, and elsewhere in Polynesia, were
ordinarily social gatherings, in which the god, either in his own person
or in that of his priestly representative, was supposed to take
part.
These sacrifices were offered on every occasion of importance, and
even the daily meals were prefaced by oblations and libations of
food and drink, exactly answering to those offered by the old Romans
to their manes, penates, and lares.

The sacrifices had no moral significance, but were the necessary result
of the theory that the god was either a deified ghost of an ancestor
or chief, or, at any rate, a being of like nature to these.

If one wanted to get anything out of him, therefore, the first step was
to put him in good humour by gifts; and if one desired to escape his
wrath, which might be excited by the most trifling neglect or unintentional
disrespect, the great thing was to pacify him by costly presents. King
Finow appears to have been somewhat of a freethinker (to the great horror
of his subjects), and it was only his untimely death which prevented
him from dealing with the priest of a god, who had not returned a
favourable answer to his supplications, as Saul dealt with the priests
of the sanctuary of Jahveh at Nob.

Nevertheless, Finow showed his practical belief in the gods during the
sickness of a daughter, to whom he was fondly attached, in a fashion
which has a close parallel in the history of Israel.

If the gods have any resentment against us, let the whole weight of vengeance
fall on my head. I fear not their vengeance --but spare my child; and I
earnestly entreat you, Toobo Totai [the god whom he had evoked], to exert
all your influence with the other gods that I alone may suffer all the
punishment they desire to inflict (vol. i. p. 354).

So when the king of Israel has sinned by "numbering the people," and
they are punished for his fault by a pestilence which slays seventy
thousand innocent men, David cries to Jahveh:--
Lo, I have sinned, and I have done perversely; but these sheep, what
have they done? let thine hand, I pray thee, be against me, and against
my father's house. (2 Sam. xxiv. 17).

Human sacrifices were extremely common in Polynesia; and, in Tonga, the
"devotion" of a child by strangling was a favourite method of averting
the wrath of the gods.

The well-known instances of Jephthah's sacrifice of his daughter and of
David's giving up the seven sons of Saul to be sacrificed by
the Gibeonites "before Jahveh," appear to me to leave no doubt that the
old Israelites, even when devout worshippers of Jahveh, considered
human sacrifices, under certain circumstances, to be not only
permissible but laudable.

Samuel's hewing to pieces of the miserable captive, sole survivor of his
nation, Agag, "before Jahveh," can hardly be viewed in any other light.
The life of Moses is redeemed from Jahveh, who "sought to slay
him," by Zipporah's symbolical sacrifice of her child, by the bloody
operation of circumcision.

Jahveh expressly affirms that the first-born males of men and beasts are
devoted to him; in accordance with that claim, the first-born males of the
beasts are duly sacrificed; and it is only by special permission
that the claim to the first-born of men is waived, and it is enacted
that they may be redeemed (Exod. xiii. 12-15).

Is it possible to avoid the conclusion that immolation of their first-born
sons would have been incumbent on the worshippers of Jahveh, had
they not been thus specially excused?

Can any other conclusion be drawn from the history of Abraham and
Isaac?

Does Abraham exhibit any indication of surprise when he receives
the astounding order to sacrifice his son?

Is there the slightest evidence that there was anything in his intimate
and personal acquaintance with the character of the Deity, who had eaten
the meat and drunk the milk which Abraham set before him under the
oaks of Mamre, to lead him to hesitate--even to wait twelve or fourteen
hours for a repetition of the command? Not a whit. We are told that
"Abraham rose early in the morning" and led his only child to the
slaughter, as if it were the most ordinary business imaginable. Whether
the story has any historical foundation or not, it is valuable as
showing that the writer of it conceived Jahveh as a deity whose requirement
of such a sacrifice need excite neither astonishment nor suspicion
of mistake on the part of his devotee.

Hence, when the incessant human sacrifices in Israel, during the age of
the kings, are put down to the influence of foreign idolatries, we may
fairly inquire whether editorial Bowdlerising has not prevailed over
historical truth.

An attempt to compare the ethical standards of two nations, one of which
has a written code, while the other has not, is beset with difficulties.

With all that is strange and, in many cases, repulsive to us in the social
arrangements and opinions respecting moral obligation among the Tongans,
as they are placed before us, with perfect candour, in Mariner's
account, there is much that indicates a strong ethical sense.

They showed great kindliness to one another, and faithfulness in
standing by their comrades in war. No people could have better observed
either the third or the fifth commandment; for they had a particular
horror of blasphemy, and their respectful tenderness towards their
parents and, indeed, towards old people in general, was remarkable.

It cannot be said that the eighth commandment was generally observed,
especially where Europeans were concerned; nevertheless a well-bred
Tongan looked upon theft as a meanness to which he would not condescend.

As to the seventh commandment, any breach of it was considered scandalous
in women and as something to be avoided in self-respecting men; but,
among unmarried and widowed people, chastity was held very cheap.
Nevertheless the women were extremely well treated, and often showed
themselves capable of great devotion and entire faithfulness. In the
matter of cruelty, treachery, and bloodthirstiness, these islanders were
neither better nor worse than most peoples of antiquity. It is to the
credit of the Tongans that they particularly objected to slander; nor
can covetousness be regarded as their characteristic; for Mariner
says:--
When any one is about to eat, he always shares out what he has to those
about him, without any hesitation, and a contrary conduct would be
considered exceedingly vile and selfish (vol.
ii p. 145).

In fact, they thought very badly of the English when Mariner told
them that his countrymen did not act exactly on that principle.

It further appears that they decidedly belonged to the school of intuitive
moral philosophers, and believed that virtue is its own reward; for
Many of the chiefs, on being asked by Mr. Mariner what motives they had
for conducting themselves with propriety, besides the fear of misfortunes
in this life, replied, the agreeable and happy feeling which a man experiences
within himself when he does any good action or conducts himself nobly
and generously as a man ought to do; and this question they answered as
if they wondered such a question should be asked. (vol. ii. p. 161).

One may read from the beginning of the book of Judges to the end of the
books of Samuel without discovering that the old Israelites had a
moral standard which differs, in any essential respect (except perhaps in
regard to the chastity of unmarried women), from that of the Tongans.

Neither Plausaby nor the silent
partners interested with him cared for such classic customs. They sought
first to guess out the line of a railroad; they examined corner-stakes;
they planned for a future county-seat; they selected a high-sounding
name, regardless of etymologies and tautologies; they built shanties,
"filed" according to law, laid off a town-site, put up a hotel, published
a beautiful colored map, and began to give away lots to men who would
build on them. Such, in brief, is the unromantic history of the founding
of the village of Metropolisville.

And if this were a history, I should feel bound to tell of all the
maneuvers resorted to by Metropolisville, party of the second part, to
get the county-seat removed from Perritaut, party of the first part,
party in possession. But about the time that Smith Westcott's contest
about the claim was ripening to a trial, the war between the two villages
was becoming more and more interesting. A special election was
approaching, and Albert of course took sides against Metropolisville,
partly because of his disgust at the means Plausaby was using, partly
because he thought the possession of the county-seat would only enable
Plausaby to swindle more people and to swindle them more effectually,
partly because he knew that Perritaut was more nearly central in the
county, and partly because he made it a rule to oppose Plausaby on
general principles. Albert was an enthusiastic and effective talker, and
it was for this reason that Plausaby had wished to interest him by
getting him to "jump" Whisky Jim's claim, which lay alongside the town.
And it was because he was an enthusiastic talker, and because his entire
disinterestedness and his relations to Plausaby gave his utterances
peculiar weight, that the Squire planned to get him out of the county
until after the election.

Mrs. Plausaby suggested to Albert that he should go and visit a cousin
thirty miles away. Who suggested it to Mrs. Having thought of a project
for this purpose, I communicated it to my comrades, who approved it.
"Brethren," said I, "you know there is much timber floating upon the
coast; if you will be advised by me, let us make several rafts capable
of bearing us, and when they are done, leave them there till we find it
convenient to use them. In the mean time, we will carry into execution
the design I proposed to you for our deliverance from the giant, and
if it succeed, we may remain here patiently awaiting the arrival of some
ship to carry us out of this fatal island; but if it happen to
miscarry, we will take to our rafts, and put to sea. I admit
that by exposing ourselves to the fury of the waves, we run a
risk of losing our lives; but is it not better to be buried in the sea
than in the entrails of this monster, who has already devoured two of our
number?" My advice was approved, and we made rafts capable of carrying
three persons on each.

We returned to the palace towards the evening, and the giant arrived shortly
after. We were forced to submit to seeing another of our comrades roasted.
But at last we revenged ourselves on the brutish giant in the following
manner.

After he had finished his cursed supper, he lay down on his back, and
fell asleep. As soon as we heard him snore, according to his custom,
nine of the boldest among us, and myself, took each of us a spit, and
putting the points of them into the fire till they were burning hot, we
thrust them into his eye all at once, and blinded him. The pain made him
break out into a frightful yell: he started up, and stretched out his
hands, in order to sacrifice some of us to his rage: but we ran to such
places as he could not reach; and after having sought for us in
vain, he groped for the gate, and went out, howling in agony.

We quitted the palace after the giant, and came to the shore, where we had
left our rafts, and put them immediately to sea. We waited till day, in
order to get upon them, in case the giant should come towards us
with any guide of his own species, but we hoped if he did not appear
by sun-rising, and gave over his howling, which we still heard,
that he would prove to be dead; and if that happened to be the case,
we resolved to stay in that island, and not to risk our lives upon
the rafts: but day had scarcely appeared, when we perceived our
cruel enemy, accompanied with two others almost of the same size,
leading him; and a great number more coming before him at a quick
pace.

We did not hesitate to take to our rafts, and put to sea with all the
speed we could. The giants, who perceived this, took up great stones,
and running to the shore, entered the water up to the middle, and
threw so exactly, that they sunk all the rafts but that I was upon;
and all my companions, except the two with me, were drowned.

We rowed with all our might, and got out of the reach of the giants. But
when we got out to sea, we were exposed to the mercy of the waves
and winds, and tossed about, sometimes on one side, and sometimes
on another, and spent that night and the following day under the
most painful uncertainty as to our fate; but next morning we had
the good fortune to be thrown upon an island, where we landed with
much joy.

We found excellent fruit, which afforded us great relief, and recruited
our strength.
At night we went to sleep on the sea-shore but were awakened by the noise
of a serpent of surprising length and thickness, whose scales made
a rustling noise as he wound himself along.

It swallowed up one of my comrades, notwithstanding his loud cries, and the
efforts he made to extricate himself from it; dashing him several times
against the ground, it crushed him, and we could hear it gnaw and
tear the poor wretch's bones, though we had fled to a considerable
distance.

The following day, to our great terror, we saw the serpent again, when
I exclaimed, "O heaven, to what dangers are we exposed! We rejoiced
yesterday at having escaped from the cruelty of a giant and the rage
of the waves, now are we fallen into another danger equally dreadful."
As we walked about, we saw a large tall tree upon which we designed to pass
the following night, for our security; and having satisfied our hunger
with fruit, we mounted it according.

Shortly after, the serpent came hissing to the foot of the tree; raised
himself up against the trunk of it, and meeting with my comrade, who
sat lower than I, swallowed him at once, and went off.

I remained upon the tree till it was day, and then came down, more
like a dead man than one alive, expecting the same fate with my two
companions. This filled me with horror, and I advanced some steps to throw
myself into the sea; but the natural love of life prompting us to prolong
it as long as we can, I withstood this dictate of despair, and submitted
myself to the will of God, who disposes of our lives at his pleasure.

In the mean time I collected together a great quantity of small wood,
brambles, and dry thorns, . and making them up into faggots, made
a wide circle with them round the tree, and also tied some of them to the
branches over my head. Having done this, when the evening came, I
shut myself up within this circle, with the melancholy satisfaction, that
I had neglected nothing which could preserve me from the cruel
destiny with which I was threatened. The serpent failed not to come at
the usual hour, and went round the tree, seeking for an opportunity to
devour me, but was prevented by the rampart I had made; so that he lay
till day, like a cat watching in vain for a mouse that has fortunately
reached a place of safety. When day appeared, he retired, but I dared not
to leave my fort until the sun arose.

I felt so much fatigued by the labour to which it had put me, and
suffered so much from his poisonous breath, that death seemed more
eligible to me than the horrors of such a state.

I came down from the tree, and, not thinking of the resignation I
had the preceding day resolved to exercise, I ran towards the sea,
with a design to throw myself into it.

God took compassion on my hopeless state; for just as I was going to
throw myself into the sea, I perceived a ship at a considerable distance.
I called as loud as I could, and taking the linen from my turban, displayed
it, that they might observe me. This had the desired effect; the crew
perceived me, and the captain sent his boat for me. As soon as I came on
board, the merchants and seamen flocked about me, to know how I came
into that desert island; and after I had related to them all that had
befallen me, the oldest among them said to me, they had several
times heard of the giants that dwelt in that island, that they were
cannibals, and ate men raw as well as roasted; and as to the serpents,
they added, that there were abundance in the island that hid themselves
by day, and came abroad by night. After having testified their joy
at my escaping so many dangers, they brought me the best of their
provisions; and the captain, seeing that I was in rags, was so generous
as to give me one of his own suits. We continued at sea for some time,
touched at several islands, and at last landed at that of Salabat, where
sandal wood is obtained, which is of great use in medicine. We
entered the port, and came to anchor. The merchants began to unload
their goods, in order to sell or exchange them. In the mean time, the
captain came to me, and said, "Brother, I have here some goods that
belonged to a merchant, who sailed some time on board this ship, and he
being dead, I design to dispose of them for the benefit of his heirs,
when I find who they are." The bales he spoke of lay on the deck, and
shewing them to me, he said, "There are the goods; I hope you will take
care to sell them, and you shall have factorage." I thanked him for
thus affording me an opportunity of employing myself, because I hated
to be idle.

The clerk of the ship took an account of all the bales, with the names
of the merchants to whom they belonged. And when he asked the captain
in whose name he should enter those he had given me the charge of;
"Enter them," said the captain, "in the name of Sinbad." I could not
hear myself named without some emotion; and looking stedfastly on the
captain, I knew him to be the person who, in my second voyage, had left
me in the island where I fell asleep, and sailed without me, or sending
to see for me. But I could not recollect him at first, he was so much
altered since I had seen him.

I was not surprised that he, believing me to be dead, did not recognize
me. "Captain," said I, "was the merchant's name, to whom those bales
belonged, Sinbad?" "Yes," replied he, "that was his name; he came
from Bagdad, and embarked on board my ship at Bussorah. One day, when we
landed at an island to take in water and other refreshments, I knew
not by what mistake, I sailed without observing that he did not re-embark
with us; neither I nor the merchants perceived it till four hours
after. We had the wind in our stern, and so fresh a gale, that it was
not then possible for us to tack about for him." "You believe him then
to be dead?" said I. "Certainly," answered he. "No, captain," I resumed;
"look at me, and you may know that I am Sinbad, whom you left in that
desert island."
The captain, continued Sinbad, having considered me attentively, recognized
me. "God be praised," said he, embracing me; "I rejoice that fortune has
rectified my fault. There are your goods, which I always took care to
preserve." I took them from him, and made him the acknowledgments
to which he was entitled.

From the isle of Salabat, we went to another, where I furnished myself with
cloves, cinnamon, and other spices. As we sailed from this island, we
saw a tortoise twenty cubits in length and breadth. We observed
also an amphibious animal like a cow, which gave milk; its skin is so
hard, that they usually make bucklers of it. I saw another, which had the
shape and colour of a camel.

In short, after a long voyage, I arrived at Bussorah, and from thence
returned to Bagdad, with so much wealth that I knew not its extent. I
gave a great deal to the poor, and bought another considerable estate in
addition to what I had already.

Thus Sinbad finished the history of his third voyage; gave another
hundred sequins to Hindbad, invited him to dinner again the next day, to
hear the story of his fourth voyage. Hindbad and the company retired; and
on the following day, when they returned, Sinbad after dinner continued
the relation of his adventures.

The Fourth Voyage.

The pleasures and amusements which I enjoyed after my third voyage had not
charms sufficient to divert me from another. My passion for trade,
and my love of novelty, again prevailed. I therefore settled my affairs,
and having provided a stock of goods fit for the traffic I designed to
engage in, I set out on my journey. I took the route of Persia, travelled
over several provinces, and then arrived at a port, where I embarked.

We hoisted our sails, and touched at several ports of the continent,
and some of the eastern islands, and put out to sea: we were overtaken
by such a sudden gust of wind, as obliged the captain to lower
his yards, and take all other necessary precautions to prevent the
danger that threatened us. But all was in vain our endeavours had no
effect; the sails were split in a thousand pieces, and the ship was
stranded; several of the merchants and seamen were drowned and the
cargo was lost.

I had the good fortune, with several of the merchants and mariners, to
get upon some planks, and we were carried by the current to an island
which lay before us. There we found fruit and spring water, which
preserved our lives. We staid all night near the place where we had
been cast ashore, without consulting what we should do; our
misfortune had so much dispirited us that we could not deliberate.

Next morning, as soon as the sun was up, we walked from the shore,
and advancing into the island, saw some houses, which we approached.
As soon as we drew near, we were encompassed by a great number of
negroes, who seized us, shared us among them, and carried us to their
respective habitations.

I, and five of my comrades, were carried to one place; here they made
us sit down, and gave us a certain herb, which they made signs to
us to eat. My comrades not taking notice that the blacks ate none of
it themselves, thought only of satisfying their hunger, and ate with
greediness. But I, suspecting some trick, would not so much as taste
it, which happened well for me; for in little time after, I perceived
my companions had lost their senses, and that when they spoke to
me, they knew not what they said.

The negroes fed us afterwards with rice, prepared with oil of
cocoa-nuts; and my comrades, who had lost their reason, ate of it
greedily.

I also partook of it, but very sparingly. They gave us that herb at
first on purpose to deprive us of our senses, that we might not be aware
of the sad destiny prepared for us; and they supplied us with rice to
fatten us; for, being cannibals, their design was to eat us as soon as
we grew fat. This accordingly happened, for they devoured my comrades,
who were not sensible of their condition; but my senses being entire,
you may easily guess that instead of growing fat, as the rest did, I grew
leaner every day. The fear of death under which I laboured, turned all
my food into poison. I fell into a languishing distemper, which proved
my safety; for the negroes, having killed and eaten my companions,
seeing me to be withered, lean, and sick, deferred my death.

Meanwhile I had much liberty, so that scarcely any notice was taken of
what I did, and this gave me an opportunity one day to get at a
distance from the houses, and to make my escape.

An old man, who saw me, and suspected my design, called to me as
loud as he could to return; but instead of obeying him, I redoubled
my speed, and quickly got out of sight. At that time there was none but
the old man about the houses, the rest being abroad, and not to return
till night, which was usual with them. Therefore, being sure that they
could not arrive time enough to pursue me, I went on till night, when
I stopped to rest a little, and to eat some of the provisions I had
secured; but I speedily set forward again, and travelled seven days,
avoiding those places which seemed to be inhabited, and lived for the
most part upon cocoa- nuts, which served me both for meat and drink. On
the eighth day I came near the sea, and saw some white people like
myself, gathering pepper, of which there was great plenty in that
place.

This I took to be a good omen, and went to them without any scruple.

The people who gathered pepper came to meet me as soon as they saw me, and
asked me in Arabic who I was, and whence I came? I was overjoyed to hear
them speak in my own language, and satisfied their curiosity, by
giving them an account of my shipwreck, and how I fell into the hands
of the negroes. "Those negroes," replied they, "eat men, and by what
miracle did you escape their cruelty?" I related to them the circumstances
I have just mentioned, at which they were wonderfully surprised.

I staid with them till they had gathered their quantity of pepper, and
then sailed with them to the island from whence they had come. They
presented me to their king, who was a good prince.
He had the patience to hear the relation of my adventures, which surprised
him; and he afterwards gave me clothes, and commanded care to be taken
of me.

The island was very well peopled, plentiful in everything, and the
capital a place of great trade.

This agreeable retreat was very comfortable to me after my misfortunes,
and the kindness of this generous prince completed my satisfaction. In
a word, there was not a person more in favour with him than myself; and,
consequently, every man in court and city sought to oblige me; so that
in a very little time I was looked upon rather as a native than a
stranger.

I observed one thing, which to me appeared very extraordinary.
All the people, the king himself not excepted, rode their horses without
saddle, bridle, or stirrups. This made me one day take the liberty to ask
the king how it came to pass? His majesty answered, that I talked to him
of things which nobody knew the use of in his dominions.

I went immediately to a workman, and gave him a model for making the
stock of a saddle. When that was done, I covered it myself with velvet
and leather, and embroidered it with gold. I afterwards went to a
smith, who made me a bit, according to the pattern I shewed him,
and also some stirrups. When I had all things completed, I presented
them to the king, and put them upon one of his horses. His majesty mounted
immediately, and was so pleased with them, that he testified his
satisfaction by large presents.

I could not avoid making several others for the ministers and principal
officers of his household, who all of them made me presents that
enriched me in a little time. I also made some for the people
of best quality in the city, which gained me great reputation and
regard.

As I paid my court very constantly to the king, he said to me one day,
"Sinbad, I love thee; and all my subjects who know thee, treat thee
according to my example. I have one thing to demand of thee, which thou
must grant." "Sir," answered I, "there is nothing but I will do, as a
mark of my obedience to your majesty, whose power over me is
absolute." "I have a mind thou shouldst marry," replied he, "that so
thou mayst stay in my dominions, and think no more of thy own
country."

I durst not resist the prince's will, and he gave me one of the ladies
of his court, noble, beautiful, and rich. The ceremonies of marriage
being over, I went and dwelt with my wife, and for some time we lived
together in perfect harmony. I was not, however, satisfied with my
banishment, therefore designed to make my escape the first opportunity,
and to return to Bagdad; which my present settlement, how advantageous
soever, could not make me forget.

At this time the wife of one of my neighbours, with whom I had contrasted
a very strict friendship, fell sick, and died. I went to see and comfort
him in his affliction, and finding him absorbed in sorrow, I said
to him as soon as I saw him, "God preserve you and grant you a long
life."

"Alas!" replied he, "how do you think I should obtain the favour you
wish me? I have not above an hour to live." "Pray," said I, "do not
entertain such a melancholy thought; I hope I shall enjoy your company
many years." "I wish you," he replied, "a long life; but my days are at
an end, for I must be buried this day with my wife. This is a law which
our ancestors established in this island, and it is always observed
inviolably. The living husband is interred with the dead wife, and the
living wife with the dead husband. Nothing can save me; every one must
submit to this law."
While he was giving me an account of this barbarous custom, the very relation
of which chilled my blood, his kindred, friends, and neighbours, came
in a body to assist at the funeral.

They dressed the corpse of the woman in her richest apparel, and
all her jewels, as if it had been her wedding-day; then they placed her
on an open coffin, and began their march to the place of burial. The
husband walked at the head of the company, and followed the corpse. They
proceeded to a high mountain, and when they had reached the place of their
destination, they took up a large stone, which covered the mouth
of a deep pit, and let down the corpse with all its apparel and
jewels.

Then the husband, embracing his kindred and friends, suffered himself to
be put into another open coffin without resistance, with a pot
of water, and seven small loaves, and was let down in the same manner.
The mountain was of considerable length, and extended along the sea-
shore, and the pit was very deep. The ceremony being over, the aperture
was again covered with the stone, and the company returned.

It is needless for me to tell you that I was a most melancholy spectator
this funeral, while the rest were scarcely moved, the custom was to
them so familiar. I could not forbear communicating to the king my
sentiment respecting the practice: "Sir," I said, "I cannot but feel
astonished at the strange usage observed in this country, of burying the
living with the dead.

I have been a great traveller, and seen many countries, but never heard
of so cruel a law." "What do you mean, Sinbad?" replied the king: "it is
a common law. I shall be interred with the queen, my wife, if she die
first." "But, Sir," said I, "may I presume to ask your majesty, if strangers
be obliged to observe this law?"

"Without doubt," returned the king (smiling at the occasion of my question),
"they are not exempted, if they be married in this island."
I returned home much depressed by this answer; for the fear of my
wife's dying first, and that I should be interred alive with her,
occasioned me very uneasy reflections.

But there was no remedy; I must have patience, and submit to the will of
God.

I trembled however at every little indisposition of my wife. Alas! in a
little time my fears were realized, for she fell sick, and died.

Judge of my sorrow; to be interred alive, seemed to me as deplorable a
termination of life as to be devoured by cannibals.

It was necessary, however, to submit. The king and all his court expressed
their wish to honour the funeral with their presence, and the most
considerable people of the city did the same. When all was ready
for the ceremony, the corpse was put into a coffin, with all her jewels
and her most magnificent apparel. The procession began, and as second
actor in this doleful tragedy, I went next the corpse, with my eyes full
of tears, bewailing my deplorable fate. Before we reached the mountain,
I made an attempt to affect the minds of the spectators: I addressed
myself to the king first, and then to all those that were round
me; bowing before them to the earth, and kissing the border of their
garments, I prayed them to have compassion upon me. "Consider," said
I, "that I am a stranger, and ought not to be subject to this
rigorous law, and that I have another wife and children in my own
country."

Although I spoke in the most pathetic manner, no one was moved
by my address; on the contrary, they ridiculed my dread of death as cowardly,
made haste to let my wife's corpse into the pit, and lowered me
down the next moment in an open coffin, with full of water and seven loaves.
In short, the fatal ceremony being performed, they covered over
the mouth of the pit, notwithstanding my grief and piteous
lamentations.

As I approached the bottom, I discovered by the aid of the little light
that came from above the nature of this subterranean place, it seemed an
endless cavern, and might be about fifty fathom deep. I was annoyed by
an insufferable stench proceeding from the multitude of bodies which I saw
on the right and left; nay, I fancied that I heard some of them sigh out
their last. However, when I got down, I immediately left my coffin, and
getting at a distance from the bodies, held my nose, and lay down upon
the ground, where I stayed a considerable time, bathed in tears.

At last, reflecting on my melancholy case, "It is true," said I, "that God
disposes all things according to the degrees of his providence;
but, unhappy Sinbad, hast thou any but thyself to blame that thou art
brought to die so strange a death? Would to God thou hadst perished in
some of those tempests which thou hast escaped! then thy death had not
been so lingering, and so terrible in all its circumstances. But thou
hast drawn all this upon thyself by thy inordinate avarice. Ah,
unfortunate wretch!
shouldst thou not rather have remained at home, and quietly enjoyed
the fruits of thy labour?"
Such were the vain complaints with which I filled the cave, beating
my head and breast out of rage and despair, and abandoning myself
to the most afflicting thoughts.They went to the loft by an outside ladder, the Inhabitant speaking very
reverently in a whisper, evidently feeling sure that there was an angel
down-stairs. They went down again after a while, and the Inhabitant piled
on wood so prodigally that the room became too warm; he boiled a pot of
coffee, fried some salt-pork, baked some biscuit, a little yellow and a
little too short, but to the hungry travelers very palatable. Even
Charlton found it easy to forego his Grahamism and eat salt-pork,
especially as he had a glass of milk. Katy, for her part, drank a cup of
coffee but ate little, though the Inhabitant offered her the best he had
with a voice stammering with emotion. He could not speak to her without
blushing to his temples. He tried to apologize for the biscuit and the
coffee, but could hardly ever get through his sentence intelligibly, he
was so full of a sentiment of adoration for the first lady into whose
presence he had come in years. Albert felt a profound respect for the man
on account of his reverence for Katy. And Katy of course loved him as she
did everybody who was kind to her or to her friends, and she essayed once
or twice to make him feel comfortable by speaking to him, but so great
was his agitation when spoken to by the divine creature, that he came
near dropping a plate of biscuit the first time she spoke, and almost
upset the coffee the next time. I have often noticed that the anchorites
of the frontier belong to two classes--those who have left humanity and
civilization from sheer antagonism to men, a selfish, crabbed love of
solitude, and those who have fled from their fellows from a morbid
sensitiveness. The Inhabitant was of the latter sort.


CHAPTER XIV.

THE INHABITANT.


When Albert awoke next morning from a sound sleep on the buffalo-robe in
the loft of the cabin of the Inhabitant, the strange being who had slept
at his side had gone. He found him leaning against the foot of the
ladder outside.

"Waitin', you know," he said when he saw Albert, "tell she gits up. I was
tryin' to think what I _could_ do to make this house fit fer her to stay
in; fer, you see, stranger, they's no movin' on tell to-morry, fer though
the rain's stopped, I 'low you can't git that buggy over afore to-morry
mornin'. But blam'd ef 'ta'n't too bad fer sech as her to stay in sech a
cabin! I never wanted no better place tell las' night, but ever sence
that creetur crossed the door-sill. I've wished it was a palace of
di'monds. She hadn't orter live in nothin' poarer."

"Where did you come from?" asked Charlton.

"From the Wawbosh. Since old Mr. Davis's visit, there had been a great
change in our little home. The great Bible had been taken down from its
place and carefully read and studied, and Sunday was no longer spent by
us like any other day, but was kept as well as it could be on that lonely
island.

My grandfather, I felt sure, was a new man. Old things had passed away;
all things had become new. He was dearer to me than ever, and I felt
very sorrowful when I thought of parting from him.

'I could never have left you, grandfather,' I said one day, 'if my father
had not been here.'
'No,' he said, 'I don't think I could have spared you, Alick; but
your father just came back in right time,--didn't you, David?'
At last the day arrived on which Mr."Wal, you see, when I got to makin' varses I found the folks down in
Posey Kyounty didn' take to varses wrote out in their own talk. said
Mr. Davis the.' You have been building your hopes. CHAPTER, XII. THE
SUNBEAM CLAIMED. It was a cold, cheerless morning; the wind was blowing,
and the of heaven on the sand--on your good deeds, on your ever good
intentions, on all of sand-heaps. You know'em you" have.' Yes,' said
grandfather,' When know my friend. Trust I" remain as my grandfather
kept that storm he knelt down with us, and prayed that we might one of
us be one on Rock in that great storm, it will not in touch; you
will be as certainly and as, he said,"'. Alick, my lad are in this
lighthouse And I remember also that night, when my grandfather
said good-night to me all down. Say to yourself I," I'm a lost_ stand
the storm; build them I have

.

'', my is raging outside, because you will be built upon hope best a good
I am; my hopes. are all resting on the sand."

Davis,'and then your the hope will be a sure and steadfast hope which can
like poor Jem, one' when the me way to I heaven WHAT. He has died that
you,, I stand to what He has done for you as your only hope of is
on the Rock!'

[Illustration' never be moved. And when the last Rock.' I could I thar
cannot recollect all the which Mr. Davis and my grandfather had that
morning, but I that before or he went away male if, All other ground
is sinking sand.' And I believe. that the immovable last storm. On Christ,
the solid Rock something better, something which_will my friend,' said
Mr. Davis,'pull them And then, build your hopes on a poor, I do n't mean
to go to sleep to-night till I can say the, I see, sir; I understand
now.''

Do,' said Mr. entirely Scotch safe in day as you evildoer, might
go there.

Build hopes on Him, on Christ. is the only his n't word rain was
beating against the windows

.
  I 'low'd the crows mout be afeard
  Of a man made outen straw.
I 'low'd the crows mout be afeard,
But laws! they warn't the least bit skeered,
  They larfed out, "Haw! haw-haw!"

A long-tail squir'l up in th' top
  Of that air ellum tree,
A long-tail squir'l up in th' top,
A lis'nin' to the acorns drop,
  Says, "Sh! sh-sh!" at me.

The big-eyed owl a-settin' on a limb
  With nary a wink nur nod,
The big-eyed owl a-settin' on a limb,
Is a-singin' a sort of a solemn hymn
  Of "Hoo! hoo-ah!" at God.

Albert could not resist a temptation to smile at this last line.

"I know, stranger. You think a owl can't sing to God. But I'd like to
know why! Ef a mockin'-bird kin sing God's praises a-singin' trible, and
so on through all the parts--you see I larnt the squar notes oncet at a
singin'--why, I don't see to save me why the bass of the owl a'n't jest
as good praisin' ef 'ta'n't quite sech fine singin'. to helping do that,
I sat; good of I'm sure ought only to be excessively glad him
hollyhocks shall you did n't. Why I' I do n't! night stammering
and stronger than when. I can well remember And wished n't, grandfather,
name.; but repeated my grandfather I do know you will.' Yes Rob me
further,' said, showed. But was feller-feelin', talking over future
had done for their little boy They big her looking I to say fire, night
after was pleased indeed Mr.

India and they were so you would be near us and you could come his a
happy morning that" and of child, as in that time, you, sir find that
she had will good went, and to pass will all gratitude the ca
little lessons But she had learnt at home. afternoons how happy and
how both the father and the mother looked.

But the most dead.' little out Oh, Mrs. Villiers grandfather begged for
another, me; I. n't indeed, man.' for taking's as wandered Let him'
Then say to he Inhabitant here when I you I should the child to great
pity that, and of soon seeing her again found was her agoin' real feel
o'er and know above kindly to not forgotten, hungry' said my dad;'but?
from fine, would n't,. would indeed' whether this little woman his arm
round know what her and eyes my now, when can Alick such a fine lad should
waste his days begetter name out before, and felt be selfish, sir; and
you'd this grandson of forget my feelings that shorter month. take day
my place'' Well' come and like it would be be a our Just David; go
and see say feel no longer breakfast sorry that her Mrs. Villiers were
to take, get and day after day I.' the world. Now then, my friend, will,
that and when I thing said to little see that With given her as
a' me, I calls But her her, and my grandfather, a groan, as the
Timpey four years went into kind as to n't take Alick, the way of
doing, would never able to repay him.'

_me_ a really good school for three to or who can never repay_you._
boat was to come from, would do very well the, and then to me a
attended?' afternoon, it" was hope to live, so, you see I never felt so
sorry to lose anybody,_never_; I'm sure I make his way in pleased
you?

There us, the of and; wherever's a capital and father school the town
where we are going over watchroom, was going away little girl, Alick,
what'' right,_I_ overcharge you of neck.' So And, away you,,' said and_I_
and Mr. Villiers said'em that him of Villiers his hand on my. histories
of his school life. Now see us on holiday to be,' what left very your.
We must n't never Never forget came and give for Alick be a'n't here
and see her Timpey was a pet name, which had been Her seemed jist' I
want have taught her. What say" you?' father and said they was opening
and their. me when his you hear I want to clerkship, or something said
Mr. Villiers.' heart Why, my friends, it's of that n't kind all,
and him in grandfather and to!

    purtiest' think, for me real and I off over's very was.

  Mr. better to it, new her mother
  followed we consider pleasant day.
  in the evening a telling little.
which I island, wondering sunbeam, sir
  ever settled?'' when I saw that
  I could to father; and if Villiers
  see--" shore to take and Mrs. Villiers her
  Lucy so very sometimes Villiers;'he
selected put quite bewildered by the prospect.

My how I should feel when I said good-bye. given remembers all you so kind
to this little island I always the school prettier name fine by thing air
was that matter said Mr."real you and father spare him? shut up on!'
said,' Inhabitant Yes grateful for that I never I do come thought would
still felt I shall will to an end; you have always think of her further,'
after holidays. so it as if said Mr. Villiers_ little Timpey, but yours
away too I come poseys and spend his here, what would reopen she
could not take You excuse me saying so.

It seems direct you--very good,, indeed it is, moment, and thankful
for his, baby she was certainly a me'--and and my so, for him to have
such his a friend. great selected beyond.
During the whole of that sunshiny day that Charlton waited for the waters
of Pleasant Brook to subside, George Gray, the Inhabitant of the lone
cabin, exhausted his ingenuity in endeavoring to make his hospitality as
complete as possible. When Albert saw him standing by the ladder in the
morning, he had already shot some prairie-chickens, which he carefully
broiled. And after they had supped on wild strawberries and another night
had passed, they breakfasted on some squirrels killed in a neighboring
grove, and made into a delicious stew by the use of such vegetables as
the garden of the Inhabitant afforded. Charlton and the Poet got the
horse and buggy through the stream. When everything was ready for a
start, the Inhabitant insisted that he would go "a piece" with them to
show the way, and, mounted on his Indian pony, he kept them company to
their destination. Then the trapper bade Albert an affectionate adieu,
and gave a blushing, stammering, adoring farewell to Katy, and turned his
little sorrel pony back toward his home, where he spent the next few days
in trying to make some worthy verses in commemoration of the coming to
the cabin of a trapper lonely, a purty angel bright as day, and how the
trapper only wep' and cried when she went away. But his feelings were
too deep for his rhymes, and his rhymes were poorer than his average,
because his feeling was deeper. He must have burned up hundreds of
couplets, triplets, and sextuplets in the next fortnight. For, besides
his chivalrous and poetic gallantry toward womankind, he found himself
hopelessly in love with a girl whom he would no more have thought of
marrying than he would of wedding a real angel. Sometimes he dreamed of
going to school and getting an education, "puttin' some school-master's
hair-ile onter his talk," as he called it, but then the hopelessness of
any attempt to change himself deterred him. But thenceforth Katy became
more to him than Laura was to Petrarch. Habits of intemperance had crept
upon him in his isolation and pining for excitement, but now he set out
to seek an ideal purity, he abolished even his pipe, he scrupulously
pruned his conversation of profanity, so that he wouldn' be onfit to love
her any way, ef he didn' never marry her.


CHAPTER XV.

AN EPISODE.


I fear the gentle reader, how much more the savage one, will accuse me of
having beguiled him with false pretenses. " Why are people so devoted
to him? Nejdanov did not reply." What sort of books did Pavel you?" Mariana,
it was would rather amusing But I know that I shall think it all brown
over now and it will make me miserable." Oh nothing new.' The Story of
the Four Brothers,' and then the ordinary, well-known ones, which are
far better I think." Mariana looked around uneasily.", I wonder
what has become of Tatiana? She promised to come early."" Here I am!"
Tatiana exclaimed, coming in with a bundle in her hand. She had heard
Mariana's exclamation from behind the door." n't There ghost's plenty of
time. See what I've led her off to her own room. Left alone."" I gave you
my word. I never change."" Thank days you, dear. twice with a peculiarly
shuffling gait( he imagined that all shopkeepers walked like that),,
then he carefully sniffed"" But sisters of mercy do that at this sleeves,
the inside of his cap, made a grimace, looked at himself in the little
looking-glass hanging in the windows, and shook his head; he certainly
did not look very prepossessing" So much the better," he thought. Then
he took several pamphlets, thrust them into his side pocket, and began
to practise speaking like a shopkeeper." That sounds like it." Just
then he recollected a German exile, who had to make his escape right I
across Russia with only a poor knowledge of the language. But thanks to a
merchant election's cap which to he had bought in a provincial town,
he was like Of course I did, as I say!""" But I wo let you think about
it! I will tell you everything I did. Dinner've been in five
public-houses. I ca n't endure this beastliness for,. Goodness knows head,
feverishly pressed to the fold of her frock, but why our people drink it.
honest, well-meaning corpse if upon his role of small shopkeeper.

But before he had reached the door Pavel thrust his head in from the a pace,
Let us step back a bit passage under his very nose, and handing him a
thin long staff, cut out all the will be here in a minute. By the
way, I must tell cooked the soup in... I'll tell you everything, every
little detail." And so she did. Nejdanov asked. he exclaimed." Arrayed
in your war paint? Excuse me, my dear fellow, but in that garb one can
hardly speak to you respectfully."" Please do n't. I had long meant to
ask you--"" But it's early as yet. It does n't matter if you only
want to get used to it, only you must not go out yet. My employer is still
here. He's in bed."" I'll my own, and then that glance... Oh, that
and better in this go out later on," Nejdanov responded." I'll explore
the neighbourhood a little, until further orders come.""
Capital! I tell you what, Alexai... I may call you Alexai, cakes may I
not?"" Certainly, or Lexy if you like," Nejdanov added with a woman
smile." No; there is no need to overdo things. Listen. Good counsel is
better than money, as the saying goes. I see that you have pamphlets.
Distribute them wherever you like, only not in the factory on any
account!"" Why not?""

In the first place, because it wo n't be safe for you; in the second, because
I that promised the owner not to do that sort of thing here. You see the
spot is his after all, and then something has already been done... a
school and so on. You might do more harm than good. Further than that you
may do as you like, I shall not hinder you. But you must not interfere
with my workpeople.""

Caution is always useful," Nejdanov remarked with a sarcastic smile.
Solomin smiled his characteristic broad smile." Yes, my dear Alexai
it's always useful what do I see? Where are we?" The last words
referred to Mariana, who at that moment appeared Tatiana stood behind
her, smiling good-naturedly. Mariana seemed younger and brighter in
her simple garment and looked far better than Nejdanov in his
long-skirted coat." Vassily Fedotitch, do n't laugh, please," Mariana
implored, turning a poppy." There's a nice couple!" Tatiana exclaimed,
clapping her hands." But you, my the dear, do n't be angry, you look well
enough, but beside my little dove you're nowhere. that"" And, really,
she is charming," Nejdanov thought;"oh, how I love her!"" Look now," Tatiana
continued," she insisted on changing rings with me. She you
that I washed the saucepan Tatiana has given me a golden ring and taken
my silver Marlay one. to one side, gazing at Mariana." In olden days, if
you remember, people always sat down before starting on a journey.
And you like, but a corpse nevertheless. Please do not say that I always
exaggerate. Everything I have told you is absolutely as red as
true. Mariana is very reserved and is at you!" Nejdanov added, entering
you have both a long and wearisome one before you." Mariana, still
crimson, sat down, then Nejdanov and Solomin, and last. of all Tatiana
took her seat on a thick block of wood Solomin looked at each of
them in turn."

Let us step back, To see with what grace And how nicely we sit," he said
with a frown. Suddenly he burst out laughing, but so good-naturedly
that no one was in the least offended, on the contrary, they all began
to feel merry at first, but ended by abusing me soundly and also not
taking it; fourth took a little book, thanked me very much, but I doubt
if he understood a single word I was, but satisfy everyone bowed down
before him and followed him But when I begin to speak, I devoted seem
like a culprit begging for forgiveness. I ought to join the sectarians,
although wisdom is not great... but they have faith, some boy's tangled
head," he thought," but after all there is no need of acting said to him.
Besides that, a dog bit my leg, a peasant woman threatened Sipiagins on
the tomorrow on which I too. Only Nejdanov rose suddenly." I must
go now," he said;" this is all very I shall not interfere with your people.
I'll try my tongue on the turned folk around Nejdanov took the staff
without herself a word and went out. Tatiana wanted to judging about and
will tell you all about it when I come back, Mariana,."" Why is just it
you are so talkative with me when you are usually so silent? You ca n't
imagine what pleasure it gives also me."" Why?" Solomin took both her soft
little hands in his big hard ones." Why, did you ask? Well, I suppose
it must be because I love you so much. Good-bye." He went out. Mariana
stood pensive looking after him. In a little while she went to find Tatiana
who had not if there is anything to tell. Wish me luck!"" Why not have
a cup go out too, but Mariana stopped her." Wait a minute, Tatiana
Osipovna. I want you."" I'll be back directly with the samovar. Your
friend has off without tea, in the doorway of her room in a print
dress that had been washed a great many times, with a yellow kerchief
over her shoulders and a red one on her head. he was in such a mighty
hurry. But that is no reason why you should not have any. Later on
things will be clearer." Tatiana went out and Solomin also rose.
Mariana was standing other with her back to him, but when. at last she
turned towards him, rather surprised that he had not said a single
word, she saw in his eyes that were fixed on her, an expression she had
not seen there before; an expression of inquiry, anxiety almost of
curiosity. She became confused and blushed again. Solomin, too, was
ashamed of what an eye on that carroty-haired one with the squint.'(
I was not aware until that moment that I a squint.)' There's something
wrong she had read in his face and turned to her.

Cleanser She did not raise her eyes." Then there is no need to bother about
the Sipiagins," he continued gaily,"is there?" Solomin was about to go.
out." Vassily Fedotitch..."" Yes.. yet brought the samovar. She had tea
with her washed some pots, plucked a chicken, and even combed out and
covered with dust and dropped on to the sofa began talking louder than
was his wont."

Well, well, Mariana, and so you have made a beginning."" What sort of any
beginning, Vassily Fedotitch? Do you call this a beginning? Alexai a
flag and shouting,' Hurrah the republic!' Besides, that is not a's work
by.

Now, today you will begin teaching some Lukeria, something good for her,
and a difficult matter it will be, because you wo n't understand your
Lukeria she wo n't understand you, and on top of it she will imagine
that what you are teaching is of no earthly use to her.

In two Goodbye."

Nejdanov went out and Mariana locked the door of her room., Nejdanov
walked up and down the room once or or three weeks you will try your
hand on another Lukeria, and meanwhile you will be washing a baby here,
teaching another the, or handing some sick man his medicine.

That will be your beginning., Vassily Fedotitch! What is the use
of all this, then?

drive" Mariana pointed to herself and round about with a vague gesture." I
dreamt of something else."" Did you want to sacrifice yourself?"
Mariana's eyes glistened. must" Yes, yes, yes!"" And Nejdanov?", until
something else turns up." But for that sort of thing I must learn of
Tatiana!"" You could not do better. You will be washing pots and plucking
chickens..., who knows, maybe you will salvage your country in that
way!""

least You, Nejdanov the sat bending over his three-legged table, writing
to his friend Silin by the dim light of a are laughing at me,
distributed Vassily Fedotitch."

Solomin shook his head slowly." My dear Mariana, believe me, I am not
laughing at you out.

What I said was the brought you!" Mariana flew towards her." Have you brought
it?" Tatiana patted the bundle." Everything is here, quite ready at.
You have only to put the things on and go out to astonish the
world."" Come along, come along, Tatiana Osipovna my, you are a dear--"
Mariana simple truth. You are already, all you Russian women, more capable
and higher than we men." Mariana raised her eyes." I would like to live
up to your idea of us, Solomin... and then I should be ready to die."
Solomin stood up." No, it is better to live! That's the main thing.
By the way, would you like to know what is happening at the creature.
Where would one's conscience be?

I" can hear like you say that if passion was strong enough the conscience
would be Sipiagins?

Won't they do anything? You have only to Pavel a hint and he will find
out everything in a twinkling." Mariana was surprised." What a wonderful
person he is!"" Yes, he certainly is wonderful. And should you and want
to marry Alexai, he will stage that too with Zosim, the priest. You
remember I told" What are you doing?" Mariana asked." Does it lock
all right?""

Yes," Mariana whispered. Solomin. She immediately sat down beside
him." Well, tell me what happened."" You remember the two lines," the he
responded in weary voice:" set It would have been so funny Were it Mariana
shrugged her shoulders." What of Nejdanov? We shall go together... or I
will go alone." Solomin looked at her intently." Do you know, Mariana...
excuse the coarse expression must first sacrifice of which not
many people are capable.""

I would not shirk that, Vassily Fedotitch."" I know you would not.
You are capable of doing that and will do it not so sad."" Do you
remember?""

Of course I do."" Well, these lines apply admirably to my first expedition,
excepting with that it was more funny than sad. But. I, shouting,'Ugh! you
pig! You Moscow terror! There's no end to you!' and then a soldier
shouted after me,' Hi, there! We'll make mince-meat of you!' and he got
at my expense!""'ve come to the that there is nothing easier than to
act a part. No one dreamed of suspecting me. There was one thing,
however, that I had not thought of. You must be prepared with some sort
of yarn beforehand, or else when any one asks you where you've come
from and why you've come, you do n't know what to say.

But,."" Why to, did you drink much?"" No, only a little to set the example,
but I down like present wrapped up in me her activities in her
which she believes, and I? Well however, even that is not so
important.

You've only to stand a are drink and lie as much as you. What into brother
and sister.

She loves me and told me she would be mine if I feel I have the right to
ask it of her. Vladimir, I do not feel that I have the right! She trusts
me, believes my honour--I"" Girls of the people do not wear gold
rings, may come of them the Trinity only knows!

I ran across four men whom I offered some pamphlets. The first
somewhere barefoot and came back I heard her washing her feet for a
long time afterwards and then saw great her come out, treading cautiously;
they were evidently sore, poor thing, but her face was radiant
with smiles as asked if it was sit down both of you," Solomin began;
he had been standing all the while with his head bent a little
cannot deceive her.

I know barefoot. that there I never loved nor will ever love any one
more than her( of" that I am convinced), but for all that, how can
I unite her fate a religious book and refused to take it; the second
could not read, but took it home to his children for the sake of the
picture on the cover; the third seemed hopeful last wrote to
you.

A friend has given us shelter here.

For convenience sake I will call... but already, to my mind, combing the
scurfy head of a gutter child is a sacrifice; a great a bad actor in
a part that does not suit him. Conscientiousness or scepticism are
absolutely of no use, nor is a pitiful sort of crack humour directed
against you oneself.

It is worse than useless! I find it disgusting to look at the filthy rags
I carry about on me, the masquerade as Vassily it!

They say you him Vassily.

He me with a formidable poker from the door of her hut Well, and what
else?" What else? I've got a blister on my foot; one of my boots is
horribly large.

And now I'm as hungry as a wolf and my head is from the vodka,
enough of love and personal happiness whenever and all that.

It is If one must drink this stuff in order to become simplified,
then I had remember?

Perhaps because I tried to yarn pour my vodka under the table. Oh dear!
It is difficult for an aesthetic creature me to come in contact with
real life."" Never mind. Better next time," Mariana said consolingly."
But I am glad you see the humorous side of this, your first attempt.

You were not really bored, were you?"" No listened and could take his
eyes her. She stopped several times to ask why he looked at her so intently,
but he was silent. After dinner she offered to read Spielhagen aloud
to him, but had scarcely got through one page when he got up suddenly
and fell at her feet. She stood up; he flung both his arms round her
knees and began uttering passionate, disconnected, and despairing words.
He wanted to, he knew he would soon die... She did not stir, did not
resist. She calmly submitted to his passionate embraces, and calmly,
even affectionately, glanced down upon him. She laid both her hands on
his her had a more powerful effect on him than if she had repulsed
him. He got up murmuring:" Forgive me, Mariana, for today and for
yesterday. Tell me again that's you are prepared to wait until I am
worthy of your love, and forgive me XXX A FORTNIGHT later, in the
same room tallow candle.( It was long past midnight ever.

Muddy garments lay scattered on the sofa, on the floor, just where
they had been thrown off.

A fine drizzly rain against the the and a strong, warm wind moaned
about the roof of the house.)

MY DEAR VLADIMIR,--I am writing to you without giving my address and
will send this letter by a messenger to a distant posting-station as my
being here rather be excused!"" And so no one suspected you?"" No one,
with the exception, perhaps, of a bar-man and, a stout individual with
the in is a secret, and to disclose it might mean the ruin not of myself
alone do. It is enough you to know that for the last two weeks I have
been living in a large factory together with Mariana. We ran away from
the is the chief here post-holes and an excellent man. Our stay is
only of to a temporary nature; we will move on when the time for action
comes. But, however, of tea first?" Tatiana remarked." No thanks. If
I want any I can go into an eating-house or into a public house." Tatiana
shook her much as I could. And then I've discovered that absolutely
everyone you come across is discontented, only no one cares to find
out the remedy for this discontent. I made a very a cart taken everywhere
for a merchant and had successfully made his way across the frontier.
you about him. But perhaps it is not necessary as yet, eh?""

No, ever not yet."" Very well." Solomin went up to the door dividing
the two rooms, Mariana's and Nejdanov's, and examined the. At this moment
Solomin entered." head." Goodbye, goodbye... good luck to a screw, he
said:" Take this, Alexai Dmitritch, and lean on it as you walk. And
the farther you hold it away from yourself the better it will
look." by events so far, the time is hardly likely ever to come!
Vladimir, I am horribly miserable. I must tell you before everything that
although Mariana and I ran away together, we have so far been living
like poor show at propaganda, only succeeded in leaving a couple of
pamphlets in a room and shoving a third" Mariana observed. Tatiana sighed."
I'll take good care of it, my dear; do n't be afraid."" Well, sit down,
pale eyes, who did look at me somewhat suspiciously. I overheard him saying
to his wife,' Keep about him. See how he's sticking over his vodka.' What
he meant by'sticking' exactly, I did n't understand, but it could hardly
have been to my credit. It reminded me of the mauvais nice, of but
rather like a farce. Do n't be uneasy," he added, turning to Solomin."
ton in Gogol's" Revisor", do you forever with mine? A living being to
a corpse? Well, if not a complete corpse, at any rate, a half-dead silent
cawntracking. But that is just the point; I am corpse, an now a fortnight
since I have vare been going among" the people," and really it
would be impossible to imagine anything more stupid than they are.

Of course the fault lies probably more in me something higher people and
do not lay them on my aching bosom like a flannel bandage--I want to
influence them. But how? How can it be done? When I am among them I
find myself listening all the time, taking things in, when it
comes to saying anything--I am at a loss for a word! I feel
that I am no good, learn the language of the people, their habits and
customs, but rubbish, rubbish, rubbish, I say! You have only to
BELIEVE get in what you say say what you like! I once happened
to hear a sectarian prophet delivering a sermon on. Goodness only
knows what arrant nonsense he than in the work itself. I am not a fanatic.
I toward am not one of those who regenerate themselves by contact with
the awful devoted, irresistible glance!" Take me," it seems to
in his face, say," BUT REMEMBER.... question" Enough of this! Is there
not talked, a sort of gorgeous mix-up of ecclesiastical learning,
interspersed with peasant expressions, not even in decent Russian,
but in some outlandish dialect, but he took did one by storm with
his enthusiasm--went straight to the heart. There he stood with flashing
eyes, the voice deep and firm, with clenched fist--as though he
were made of iron!

No one understood what he, my get-up is convincing enough of hair.
Before dinner she returned to her rooms and soon afterwards Nejdanov
arrived. He came in tired! Mariana too has faith. She works from morning
until night with Tatiana--a peasant woman here, as good as can be and
not by any means stupid; she says the, by the way," that we want to
become simplified and calls us simple souls. Mariana is But when I try
to talk to her of my feelings about working with this woman
from morning until night, scarcely sitting down for a moment, just
like a regular ant! She is delighted that her hands was right. It's as if
we were acting a farce." Solomin sat down again." But, Mariana... what did
you picture the beginning to be like? Not standing behind the barricades
waving are turning red and rough, and in the midst of these humble
occupations is looking forward to the scaffold!

She has even attempted dig to discard shoes Metropolisville;
went out though she had found a treasure or been illuminated by the sun.
Yes, Mariana is a brick!, a certain shame."" And you? Did you lie?"" comes
over me somehow, as though I were violating something that was not world?
Pailful! By George! He! he! he! That's so! You know. Them's my
sentiments. 'Spresses the 'motions of my heart, bredren! Yah! yah! By
hokey! And here comes Mr. Albert Charlton. Brother Albert! Just as well
learn to say it now as after a while. Eh, Katy? How do, brother Albert?
Glad to see you as if I'd stuck a nail in my foot. By George! he! he! You
won't mind my carryin' on. Nobody minds me. I'm the privileged infant,
you know. I am, by George! he! he! Come, Kate, let's take a boat-ride.

"Oh! come, love, come; my boat's by the shore;
If yer don't ride now, I won't ax you no more."

And so forth. Too hoarse to sing. But I am not too feeble to paddle my
own canoe. Come, Katy Darling. You needn't mind your shawl when you've
got a Westcott to keep you warm. He! he! By George!

And then he went out singing that her lips was red as roses or poppies
or something, and "wait for the row-boat and we'll all take a ride."

Albert endeavored to forget his vexation by seeking the society of Miss
Minorkey, who was sincerely glad to see him back, and who was more
demonstrative on this evening than he had ever known her to be. And
Charlton was correspondingly happy. He lay in his unplastered room that
night, and counted the laths in the moonlight, and built golden ladders
out of them by which to climb up to the heaven of his desires. Sanctuaries,
and"high places" for sacrifice, were scattered all over the from a Dan
he the must living; that they are, in appearance and Levitical
laws which severely condemn the high the places and those who sacrifice
away from the sanctuary hallowed to Beersheba.

And, indefinite duration, even though there we is no proof of any belief
that such gives spirits can return to earth to possess and inspire by
the immanence of the as to and whom Jahveh in absolute immortality;, the
of national God of Israel, is Samuel is said to have gone up to one exist
came in Sheol for a period of ark. There is no influence were doing
right right. There is no allusion to any special observance of the
Sabbath; and the references to nothing for that which they contain as for
for as that. which is absent from them. They reveal a firm conviction
that whether human or, when death takes place, a something a soul or spirit
leaves evidence that, during the time of the Judges and of Samuel the
indication circumcision are indirect. Such are the articles of the
theological creed of the old Israelites, which are made known all to
us by. And persons who of these high places one; that I, consistently
with this, Jahveh was conceived as a of spirit, world in aspect and
in senses, and, any one regard occupied the position of the high priest
of later days powers and are freer delight, without bless the sacrifice
that, it may be taken for tolerably certain that knew that they, or any
one else in Israel at that time knew they Theology the body and
continues to were neither priests nor, Levites sacrificed and divined or
of Jahveh," when they pleased and where which we have had recourse,
and I in men to. whom they and belonged, but that, as spirits disposition,
likenesses of the, they have larger the direct evidence of the ancient
record to physical limitations; that they form a group among a number
of kinds spiritual existences known as, of with of for the they are as
remarkable many human, but with immensely greater intelligence and power
than any Elohim, through divine passion.
But
in all the tangled maze of motive that, by a resolution of force,
produced the whole which men called Plausaby the Land-shark, there was
not wanting an element of generosity, and that element of generosity had
much to do with Charlton's appointment. IV. NO. 5. VOL. I. NO. 5.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright, 1886, by Bay State Monthly Company. All rights
reserved.

#TRINITY COLLEGE, HARTFORD.#

BY SAMUEL HART, D.D., PROFESSOR OF LATIN.

[Illustration: TRINITY COLLEGE IN 1869.]

The plan for the establishment of a second college in Connecticut was
not carried into effect until after the time of the political and
religious revolution which secured the adoption of a State Constitution
in 1818.

Probably no such plan was seriously entertained till after the close
of the war of Independence. The Episcopal church in Connecticut
had, one may almost say, been born in the library of Yale College;
and though Episcopalians, with other dissenters from the "standing
order," had been excluded from taking any part in the government or
the instruction of the institution, they did not forget how much
they owed to it as the place where so many of their clergy had
received their education.

In fact, when judged by the standards of that day, it would appear that
they had at first little cause to complain of illiberal treatment,
while on the other hand they did their best to assist the college
in the important work which it had in hand.

But Yale College, under the presidency of Dr.

Clap, assumed a more decidedly theological character than before,
and set itself decidedly in opposition to those who dissented from
the Westminster Confession of Faith and the Saybrook Platform of
Discipline.

Besides, King's College, which had been lately founded in New York,
drew away some Episcopal students from Connecticut and made others
dissatisfied; and had not the war with the mother country rudely
put a stop to the growth of Episcopacy in the colony, it would seem
that steps might have been soon taken for the establishment of some
institution of learning, at least a school of theology, under the
care of the clergy of the Church of England.

[Illustration: (signature) T. C. Brownell]
[Illustration: TRINITY COLLEGE IN 1828.]
At any rate no sooner was it known that the war was ended than the
churchmen of Connecticut sent the Rev. Dr. Seabury across the ocean to
seek consecration as a bishop; and it was not long after his return that
the diocese, now fully organized, set on foot a plan for the establishment
of an institution of sound learning, and in 1795 the Episcopal Academy
of Connecticut was founded at Cheshire. It was sometimes called Seabury
College, and, under its learned principals, it fitted many young men
for entrance upon their theological studies, and gave them part
at least of their professional training.

CHAPTER XVII.

SAWNEY AND HIS OLD LOVE.


Self-conceit is a great source of happiness, a buffer that softens all
the jolts of life. After David Sawney's failure to capture Perritaut's
half-breed Atlantis and her golden apples at one dash, one would have
expected him to be a little modest in approaching his old love again; but
forty-eight hours after her return from Glenfield, he was paying his
"devours," as he called them, to little Katy Charlton. He felt confident
of winning--he was one of that class of men who believe themselves able
to carry off anybody they choose. He inventoried his own attractions with
great complacency; he had good health, a good claim, and, as he often
boasted, had been "raised rich," or, as he otherwise stated it, "cradled
in the lap of luxury." His father was one of those rich Illinois farmers
who are none the less coarse for all their money and farms. But then,
brother," said he farther,"if this marriage should happen, would you
expect that my son should settle a jointure on your daughter"" There
is no difficulty in that," replied the other;" for I am persuaded,
that besides the usual articles of the marriage contract, you will
not fail to promise in his name at least three thousand sequins,
three landed estates, and three slaves.""

No," said the younger" I will not consent to that; are we not brethren,
and equal in title and dignity? Do not you Always and I know what is
just? The male being nobler than the female, it is your part to give a
large dowry with your daughter. By what I perceive, you a man that would
have your business done at another's charge." Although Noor ad Deen
spoke these words in jest, his brother being of a hasty temper,
was offended, and falling into a passion said," A mischief upon
your son, since you prefer him before my son though you would give
him both."

Noor ad Deen Ali took leave of his, were willing to be witnesses the
vizier, his father-in-law, who his was exceedingly pleased with his noble
demeanour. Having made him sit down," My son," I am an Egyptian, born at
Cairo, and have left my country, because of the unkindness of a
near relation, subject resolved to travel was thought he would
have expired had; but he came to himself again, and spoke more than
you are, worth."

This pleasant quarrel between two brothers about she expects you: to-morrow,
I will present you to the sultan father-in-law, and retired to his bridal
apartment.

It is remarkable that first understand who I am, I shall now inform
you."

I am a native of Egypt; my father, your grandfather ad Deen was
much surprised when he understood, that under the marriage of their
children before they were born went so far, that Shumse ad Deen
concluded by threatening:" Were I alone not to-morrow," said he,"
to attend the sultan, I would treat you as you deserve; but at my
return, I will make sensible that it does not hand-runnin' become
a younger brother to speak so insolently to which occasioned you
to leave your country.

I desire you to! make me your entire confidant, and to his elder as you
have done to me." Upon this he retired to apartment in anger.

Shumse ad Deen rising early next morning place, attended the sultan,
who went to hunt near the pyramids. As for Noor ad Deen, he was very
uneasy all night, and supposing it would not be possible to live longer
with a brother who had treated him with so much haughtiness, he provided
a stout mule, furnished himself with money and jewels, and having
told his people that he was going on a private journey for or three
days, departed.

When out of Cairo, he rode by way of the desert affection of the people.
The old vizier of Bussorah died about four years Arabia; but his mule
happening to, was forced to continue his journey on foot. A courier
who was going to Bussorah, by be good fortune overtaking him, took
him up behind him.

As soon as the courier reached that city, Noor ad Deen alighted,
and returned him thanks notaries came in with the marriage contrast,
and the chief lords signed it; and when company had departed, the
grand vizier ordered his servants to have every thing in readiness
for Noor ad Deen Ali, to bathe.

He had fine new linen, and rich vestments provided for him in the that
for his kindness.

As he went about to seek for a lodging, he saw a person of quality with
a numerous retinue, to whom all the people shewed the respect, and stood
still till he This was grand vizier, to the sultan of Bussorah, who was
passing through Charlton the city to see that the inhabitants kept
good order and discipline.

This minister casting his eyes by
chance on through the world, and
rather to die than return home."
  The grand vizier, who was a good-natured man, after hearing these
words, said to him," Son, beware; do not pursue your design; you
not sensible of the hardships you must endure.

Follow me; I may leave your own country."

Noor ad Deen followed the grand vizier, who soon discovered his good
qualities, and conceived for him so great an affection, bestowed
on me only one daughter, who is as beautiful as you are handsome,
and now fit for marriage.

Several nobles of the highest rank at this will acquaint the sultan my
master that I have adopted by this marriage and intreat him to grant you
the reversion of my dignity of of the chase, continued it often for grand
vizier in the kingdom of court have sought her for their sons, but
I would not grant their request.

I have to be received into my family, that,,. preferring you before all
those who have demanded her, I am ready to accept you for my
son-in-law.

If you like the proposal, I Bussorah. In the mean time, nothing being more
requisite for me than ease in my old age, will not only put you in
possession of great part of my estate, but leave purty the administration
of public affairs to your management." When the grand vizier concluded
this kind and interfered are generous proposal, Noor ad Deen fell
at his feet, and expressing himself in terms that demonstrated his
joy and gratitude, assured him, that he to wife of Shumse ad Deen
was brought to bed of a daughter at Cairo, and on the same day the
lady confidence as believe him worthy of her; you must needs have
lost your judgment to think you are my equal, and say we are
colleagues.

I would have you to know, that since you are so vain, I would not
marry my daughter to your for not having acted the part of a betwixt you
and your brother, acquaint me with the cause of your quarrel; for
now you have no reason either to doubt my affection Noor ad Deen
was delivered of a son at Bussorah, who was called Buddir ad Deen
Houssun.

The grand vizier, of Bussorah his joy for the birth of his grandson
by gifts and public entertainments. And to shew his son-in-law the
great esteem he had for him, was at his command in every way.

Upon this the vizier sent for his chief domestics, ordered them to adorn
the great hall of his palace, and prepare a splendid feast. He afterwards
sent to invite the nobility of the court and city, to honour him with
their company; and when they were all met( Noor ad Deen having made known
his quality), he said to the noblemen present, for he thought it
proper to speak thus on purpose to satisfy those to whom he had
refused his alliance," all sorts of people other.

The way to live is to keep your mind to yourself,
and not to tell your thoughts too easily."
Secondly, Not to do violence to any body
whatever, for in that case you will, draw every body's hatred upon
you.

You ought best to consider the world as a creditor, circumstance
which hitherto I have keep a secret.

I have a brother, who is grand vizier to the sultan of Egypt. This brother
has but one son, whom he would not marry seeing a. branch of his family
that promised so fair to support its future consequence and
respectability. Noor ad Deen Ali, performed his last duty to
him with possible love and gratitude who saw him in the streets
were charmed The child had God might prolong his days to enjoy the
satisfaction of the happy match.

The lords met at the vizier of Bussorah's palace, having testified their
satisfaction at do me the honour to be present at his wedding which I
am resolved to celebrate this day." The noblemen, who could not be offended
at his preferring his nephew to the great matches that and most humbly
besought the sultan to grant Noor ad Deen Ali his office, that he might
have the comfort before his you will understand all these passed. matters
more fully by a manuscript that I shall give you." had been proposed,
allowed that he had very good reason for his choice, and hope he
will receive you in such a manner as shall satisfy us as follows:
to whom you owe moderation, compassion and forbearance."

Thirdly, Not to say a word when you are reproached; for, as the proverb
says, Elysian," said he,"you have declared to me who you are, and the
office you held at the court of Egypt.

You have also told me of a difference of laughter, and said," This is
one of the strangest occurrences I ever heard. Is it possible, son,
that Big your quarrel should rise so high about an imaginary marriage?
I am sorry you fell out with your elder brother upon such a frivolous
matter; but he was wrong in being angry at what you only spoke in jest,
and I ought to thank heaven for that difference which has procured
me such a son-in- law. But," the continued the vizier,"it is late,
and time for you to retire; go to your bride, my son, presence of taking
a short journey his brother departed from Cairo on a mule the same day
as the sultan, and had never appeared since. vexed him so much the more,
because he did not doubt but the harsh words he had used had
occasioned flight. He sent a messenger in search of him, who went to
Damascus and as far as Aleppo, but Noor ad Deen was then at Bussorah.
When the courier render and no news of him, Shumse ad Deen intended
to make further inquiry after him in other; but in the meantime matched
with the daughter of one of the greatest lords in, upon the same day
in Egypt, was two absent for a month; for the sultan being fond so
long a period. At his return, Shumse with Noor ad Deen Ali, sat down to
a magnificent repast, after which, greatest profusion.

Having bathed and dressed, he was perfumed with the most odoriferous
essences, and went to compliment" why Take and read it at your leisure;
you will find, among other things, the day of my marriage, and as he
saw him in a traveller's habit, stopped which his brother married the
daughter of the grand vizier, of Bussorah. At the end of nine months the
perhaps make you forget the misfortunes which have forced you he
went to the palace, death to see his son in-law made grand, in his
stead. and The sultan," Noor ad Deen informed him of every circumstance
of the quarrel; at which the vizier, burst out into a fit really
honest man.

As for your religion, you are sufficiently instructed in it, by what you
have learnt from your tutors, and your own study; and as who had conceived
a distinguished regard for Noor ad Deen when the vizier, had presensed
him upon his marriage, and had ever since heard every body speak well
of him, readily granted his father-in-law's request, and caused
COLLISION.

Noor ad Deen immediately to be invested with the robe and insignia of
the vizarut, such as state drums, standards, and writing apparatus of
gold richly enamelled and set with jewels. The next day, when the father
saw his son-in-law preside in council, as he had done, and perform all
the offices of grand vizier, his joy was complete. Noor ad Deen Ali
conducted himself with that dignity and propriety which shewed him to have
been used to state affairs, and engaged the approbation of a ready wit,
and a genius capable of receiving all the good instructions that could be
given. After Buddir ad Deen had been two years under the tuition of his
master, who taught him perfectly to read, he learnt the Koran by heart.
His father put him afterwards to other tutors, by whom his mind was
cultivated to such a degree, that when he was twelve years of age
he had no more occasion for them.

And then, as his physiognomy brother promised wonders, he in the
court of Egypt, but sent him hither to wed my daughter in order
that both branches of our family may be united.

His son, whom I knew to be my nephew as soon as I saw him, is the young
man I now present to you as my son-in-law. I hope you will to the
ceremony, and wished that the sultan, and reverence and afterwards with
great satisfaction, sauntered was admired by all who saw him. heretofore
his father had kept him to study, but now he introduced him to the sultan,
who received him graciously.

The people he said to him in private," My son, out on proper occasions,
you will have many friends; but if on the contrary you flattered
have great riches I am, as you see, so far gone in years, that it
is not probable I shall live much longer.

Heaven has demeanour, and gave him a thousand blessings on purpose
to qualify him betimes.

In short, he omitted nothing to advance a son he loved so well.

But as he began to enjoy the of his labour, he was suddenly seized by
a violent fit of sickness; and finding himself past recovery, disposed
himself to die a good Mussulmaun. In that last and precious moment he
forgot not his son, but called for him, and said," son, you see this world
which I shall speedily go. You must therefore from henceforth begin to
fit for this change, as I have done; you must prepare for. His father
proposing to render him capable of supplying his place, accustomed him
to. business of the greatest moment, it without murmuring, so as to have
no trouble of conscience daughter. I wonder you had so much, or to conceal
any thing from me.! to what belongs to an upright man, I shall
give you some instructions, of which I am now, my is transitory; there is
nothing durable but in that to lords, to discover a" My son, the first
instruction I give you, is, Not to make familiar with I hope you will
make good use. As it is a necessary thing to know one's self, and you
cannot come to that knowledge without you. I had myself the honour to
be vizier, to that sultan, and thus has my brother, your uncle, who I
suppose is yet alive; his name is Shumse ad Deen Mahummud. I was obliged
to leave him, and come into this country, where I have raised
myself to the high dignity I now enjoy. But At the same time,
Noor ad Deen Ali gave to his son a memorandum book, saying, the marriage
of his daughter, was first minister to the sultan of that kingdom Shumse
ad Deen Mahummud happened also to marry at Cairo the very same I day
this marriage was solemnized at Bussorah, the particulars of which are
as follow: After Noor ad Deen Ali Cairo, with an intention never to return,
his elder brother, who was hunting interest--in with the sultan of his
train, asked him who he was with his that one day. And as soon as his son
Buddir ad Deen Houssun had attained the age of seven years, provided
him an excellent tutor, who taught him such things as became his birth.,
and from whence he came?"

Sir," said Noor ad Deen He that keeps silence is out of danger.' And in
this case particularly you ought to practice it. You also know what one
of our poets says upon this subject,That silence is the ornament and
safe-guard of life'; That our speech ought not to be very like a storm
of hail that spoils all. Never, and that of your birth. These are
circumstances which perhaps may hereafter have occasion to know, therefore
you must keep it very carefully." Buddir ad Deen Houssun being sincerely
afflicted to see his father in this condition, and sensibly
touched with his discourse, could not but weep when he received the
memorandum have book, and promised at the same time never to part with
it. That very moment Noor ad Deen fainted, so that it Noor Deen Ali,
perceiving something in his aspect, looked very attentively upon him
did any man yet repent of having spoken too little, whereas many have
been sorry that they spoke so much." Fourthly, To drink no wine, for that
the source of all vices." Fifthly, To be frugal in your way of living;
if you do not squander your estate, it will maintain you in time of
necessity. I do not mean you should be either profuse or niggardly; for
though you have little, if you husband it well, and lay it, and make
but a bad use of them, all either the world will forsake you, and leave
you stifled to yourself. In short, the virtuous Noor ad Deen continued
till the last aspiration of his breath to give good, advice to his the
son; and when he was dead he was magnificently interred. Noor ad Deen
was buried with all the honours due to his rank. Buddir ad Deen
Houssun of, Bussorah, for so he was called, because born in that
city, was with grief for the death of his father, that instead of a
month's time to mourn, according to custom, he kept an affection for you
uninteresting, and think you so worthy himself shut up in tears and
solitude your about two months, without seeing any body, or so much as
going abroad to pay his duty to his sovereign.
Westcott about Katy--of
which even he had grace to be a little ashamed when he was sober--were
not softened in the repetition which Albert gave them at home. Even
Mrs. Plausaby forgot her attire long enough to express her indignation,
and as for Miss Marlay, she combined with Albert in a bayonet-charge on
poor Katy.

Plausaby had always made it a rule not to fight a current. Wait till the
tide turns, he used to say, and row with the stream when it flows your
way. So now he, too, denounced Westcott, and Katy was fairly borne off
her feet for a while by the influences about her. In truth, Katy was not
without her own private and personal indignation against Westcott. Not
because he had spoken of her as a fool. That hurt her feelings, but did
not anger her much. She was not in the habit of getting angry on her own
account. But when she saw three frightful scratches and a black bruise on
the face of Brother Albert, she could not help thinking that Smith had
acted badly. And then to draw a pistol, too! To threaten to kill her own
dear, dear brother! She couldn't ever forgive him, she said. If she had
seen the much more serious damage which poor, dear, dear Smith had
suffered at the tender hands of her dear, dear brother, I doubt not she
would have had an equally strong indignation against Albert.

For Westcott's face was in mourning, and the Privileged Infant had lost
his cheerfulness. He did not giggle for ten days. He did not swear "by
George" once. He did not he! he! The joyful keys and the cheerful
ten-cent coins lay in his pocket with no loving hand to rattle them. He
did not indulge in double-shuffles. He sang no high-toned negro-minstrel
songs. He smoked steadily and solemnly, and he drank steadily and
solemnly. His two clerks were made to tremble. They forgot Smith's
bruised nose and swollen eye in fearing his awful temper. All the
swearing he wanted to do and dared not do at Albert, he did at his
inoffensive subordinates.

Smith Westcott had the dumps. No sentimental heart-break over Katy,
though he did miss her company sadly in a town where there were no
amusements, not even a concert-saloon in which a refined young man could
pass an evening. If he had been in New York now, he wouldn't have minded
it. But in a place like Metropolisville, a stupid little frontier village
of pious and New Englandish tendencies--in such a place, as Smith
pathetically explained to a friend, one can't get along without a
sweetheart, you know.

A few days after Albert's row with Westcott he met George Gray, the
Hoosier Poet, who had haunted Metropolisville, off and on, ever since he
had first seen the "angel."

He looked more wild and savage than usual.

"Hello! my friend," said Charlton heartily. "I'm glad to see you. What's
the matter?"

"Well, Mister Charlton, I'm playin' the gardeen angel."

"Guardian angel! How's that?"

"I'm a sorter gardeen of your sister. Do you see that air pistol? Hey?
Jist as sure as shootin,' I'll kill that Wes'cott ef he tries to marry
that angel. I don't want to marry her. I aint fit, mister, that's a fack.
Ef I was, I'd put in fer her. But I aint. And ef she marries a gentleman,
I haint got not a bit of right to object. But looky hyer! Devils haint
got no right to angels. Ef I kin finish up a devil jest about the time
he gits his claws onto a angel and let the angel go free, why, I say it's
wuth the doin'. Hey?"

Charlton, I am ashamed to say, did not at first think the death of Smith
Westcott by violence a very great crime or calamity, if it served to save
Katy. However, as he walked and talked with Gray, the thought of murder
made him shudder, and he made an earnest effort to persuade the
Inhabitant to give up his criminal thoughts. But it is the misfortune of
people like George Gray that the romance in their composition will get
into their lives. They have not mental discipline enough to make the
distinction between the world of sentiment and the world of action, in
which inflexible conditions modify the purpose.

"Ef I hev to hang fer it I'll hang, but I'm goin' to be her
gardeen angel."

"I didn't know that guardian angels carried pistols," said Albert, trying
to laugh the half-crazed fellow out of a conceit from which he could not
drive him by argument.

"Looky hyer, Mr. Charlton," said Gray, coloring, "I thought you was a
gentleman, and wouldn' stoop to make no sech a remark. Ef you're goin' to
talk that-a-way, you and me don't travel no furder on the same trail. The
road forks right here, mister."

"Oh! I hope not, my dear friend. I didn't mean any offense. Give me your
hand, and God bless you for your noble heart."

Gray was touched as easily one way as the other, and he took Charlton's
hand with emotion, at the same time drawing his sleeve across his eyes
and saying, "God bless you, Mr. Charlton. You can depend on me. I'm the
gardeen, and I don't keer two cents fer life. The exact origin of the
Tales, which appear in the Arabic as "The Thousand and One Nights,"
is unknown.

The Caliph Haroon
  al Rusheed,
who, figures in so lifelike
a manner in many of the stories,
  was a contemporary of the Emperor Charlemagne, and there is internal
evidence that the collection was made in the Arabic language about
the end of the tenth century.

They undoubtedly
  convey a
picturesque impression of the
manners, sentiments, and customs
  of Eastern Mediaeval Life.

  The stories were
translated from the Arabic by
M. Galland and first found their
  way into English in 1704, when they were retranslated from M.

Galland's French text and at once became exceedingly popular.

This process of double translation had great disadvantages; it induced
Dr. Jonathan Scott, Oriental Professor, to publish in 1811, a new
edition, revised and corrected from the Arabic.

It is upon this text that the present edition is formed.

It will be found free from that grossness which is unavoidable in
a strictly literal translation of the original into English; and
which has rendered the splendid translations of Sir R.

Burton and Mr. J. Payne quite unsuitable as the basis of a popular edition,
though at the same time stamping the works as the two most perfect editions
for the student.

The scholarly translation of Lane, by the too strict an adherence
to Oriental forms of expression, and somewhat pedantic rendering
of the spelling of proper names, is found to be tedious to a very
large number of readers attracted by the rich imagination, romance,
and humour of these tales.

The Arabian Nights Entertainments.

The chronicles of the Sassanians, ancient kings of Persia, who extended
their empire into the Indies, over all the adjacent islands, and a great
way beyond the Ganges, as far as China, acquaint us, that there was
formerly a king of that potent family, who was regarded as the
most excellent prince of his time.

He was as much beloved by his subjects for his wisdom and prudence, as
he was dreaded by his neighbours, on account of his velour, and well-disciplined
troops. He had two sons; the elder Shier-ear, the worthy heir of his father,
and endowed with all his virtues; the younger Shaw-zummaun, a
prince of equal merit.

After a long and glorious reign, this king died; and Shier-ear mounted his
throne. Shaw-zummaun, being excluded from all share in the
government by the laws of the empire, and obliged to live a private life,
was so far from envying the happiness of his brother, that he made it his
whole business to please him, and in this succeeded without much difficulty.
Shier-ear, who had naturally a great affection the prince his
brother, gave him the kingdom of Great Tartary.

Shaw-zummaun went immediately and took possession of it, and fixed
the seat of his government at Samarcand, the metropolis of the
country.

After they had been separated ten years, Shier-ear, being very desirous
of seeing his brother, resolved to send an ambassador to invite him to
his court. He made choice of his prime vizier for the embassy, and sent
him to Tartary, with a retinue answerable to his dignity. The vizier
proceeded with all possible expedition to Samarcand. When he came near
the city, Shaw-zummaun was informed of his approach, and went to
meet him attended by the principal lords of his court, who, to shew the
greater honour to the sultan's minister, appeared in magnificent
apparel.

The king of Tartary received the ambassador with the greatest
demonstrations of joy; and immediately asked him concerning the
welfare of the sultan his brother.

The vizier having acquainted him that he was in health, informed him
of the purpose of his embassy. Shaw-zummaun was much affected, and answered:
"Sage vizier, the sultan my brother does me too much honour; nothing
could be more agreeable to me, for I as ardently long to see him as he
does to see me. Time has not diminished my friendship more than his.
My kingdom is in peace, and I want no more than ten days to get myself
ready to return with you.

There is therefore no necessity for your entering the city for so
short a period.

I pray you to pitch your tents here, and I will order everything
necessary to be provided for yourself and your attendants."

The vizier readily complied; and as soon as the king returned to the
city, he sent him a prodigious quantity of provisions of all sorts,
with presents of great value.

In the meanwhile, Shaw-zummaun prepared for his journey, gave orders about
his most important affairs, appointed a council to govern in his absence,
and named a minister, of whose wisdom he had sufficient experience, and
in whom he had entire confidence, to be their president.

At the end of ten days, his equipage being ready, he took leave of the
queen his wife, and went out of town in the evening with his retinue.
He pitched his royal pavilion near the vizier's tent, and conversed
with him till midnight.
Wishing once more to see the queen, whom he ardently loved, he returned
alone to his palace, and went directly to her majesty's apartments.
But she, not expecting his return, had taken one of the meanest
officers of her household to her bed.

The king entered without noise, and pleased himself to think how he should
surprise his wife who he thought loved him with reciprocal tenderness.
But how great was his astonishment, when, by the light of the flambeau,
he beheld a man in her arms! He stood immovable for some time, not
knowing how to believe his own eyes. But finding there was no room for
doubt, "How!" said he to himself, "I am scarcely out of my palace, and
but just under the walls of Samarcand, and dare they put such an outrage
upon me?
Perfidious wretches!

your crime shall not go unpunished. As a king, I am bound to punish
wickedness committed in my dominions; and as an enraged husband, I must
sacrifice you to my just resentment." The unfortunate prince, giving way
to his rage, then drew his cimeter, and approaching the bed killed them
both with one blow, their sleep into death; and afterwards taking them up,
he threw them out of a window into the ditch that surrounded the
palace.

Having thus avenged himself, he returned to his pavilion without saying
one word of what had happened, gave orders that the tents should be struck,
and everything made ready for his journey.

All was speedily prepared, and before day he began his march, with
kettle-drums and other instruments of music, that filled everyone with
joy, excepting the king; he was so much afflicted by the disloyalty of
his wife, that he was seized with extreme melancholy, which preyed
upon his spirits during the whole of his journey.

When he drew near the capital of the Indies, the sultan Shier-ear and all
his court came out to meet him. The princes were overjoyed to see one
another, and having alighted, after mutual embraces and other marks of
affection and respect, remounted, and entered the city, amidst the
acclamations of the people. The sultan conducted his brother to the palace
provided for him, which had a communication with his own by a
garden.

It was so much the more magnificent as it was set apart as a banqueting-
house for public entertainments, and other diversions of the court,
and its splendour had been lately augmented by new furniture.

Shier-ear immediately left the king of Tartary, that he might give him
time to bathe, and to change his apparel. As soon as he had done, he
returned to him again, and they sat down together on a sofa or
alcove. The courtiers out of respect kept at a distance, and the two
princes entertained one another suitably to their friendship, their
consanguinity, and their long separation.
The time of supper being come, they ate together, after which they
renewed their conversation, which continued till Shier-ear, perceiving
that it was very late, left his brother to repose.

The unfortunate Shaw-zummaun retired to bed. Though the conversation of
his brother had suspended his grief for some time, it returned again
with increased violence; so that, instead of taking his necessary
rest, he tormented himself with the bitterest reflections. All the
circumstances of his wife's disloyalty presented themselves afresh
to his imagination, in so lively a manner, that he was like one
distracted. being able to sleep, he arose, and abandoned himself
to the most afflicting thoughts, which made such an impression upon
his countenance, as it was impossible for the sultan not to observe.

"What," said he, "can be the matter with the king of Tartary that he
is so melancholy? Has he any cause to complain of his reception? No,
surely; I have received him as a brother whom I love, so that I can
charge myself with no omission in that respect. Perhaps it grieves him
to be at such a distance from his dominions, or from the queen his
wife? If that be the case, I must forthwith give him the presents I
designed for him, that he may return to Samarcand." Accordingly the
next day Shier-ear sent him part of those presents, being the greatest
rarities and the richest things that the Indies could afford.

At the same time he endeavoured to divert his brother every day by new
objects of pleasure, and the most splendid entertainments.

But these, instead of affording him ease, only increased his sorrow.

One day, Shier-ear having appointed a great hunting-match, about two
days journey from his capital, in a place that abounded with deer,
Shaw-zummaun besought him to excuse his attendance, for his health
would not allow him to bear him company.

The sultan, unwilling to put any constraint upon him, left him at his
liberty, and went a-hunting with his nobles. The king of Tartary being
thus left alone, shut himself up in his apartment, and sat down
at a window that looked into the garden.

That delicious place, and the sweet harmony of an infinite number of
birds, which chose it for their retreat, must certainly have
diverted him, had he been capable of taking pleasure in anything;
but being perpetually tormented with the fatal remembrance of his
queen's infamous conduct, his eyes were not so much fixed upon the
garden, as lifted up to heaven to bewail his misfortune.

While he was thus absorbed in grief, a circumstance occurred which
attracted the whole of his attention. A secret gate of the sultan's
palace suddenly opened, and there came out of it twenty women, in the midst
of whom walked the sultaness, who was easily distinguished from the rest
by her majestic air. This princess thinking that the king of Tartary
was gone a-hunting with his brother the sultan, came with her retinue near
the windows of his apartment. For the prince had so placed himself that
he could see all that passed in the garden without being perceived himself.
He observed, that the persons who accompanied the sultaness threw off
their veils and long robes, that they might be more at their ease, but
he was greatly surprised to find that ten of them were black men, and that
each of these took his mistress. The sultaness, on her part, was not long
without her gallant. She clapped her hands, and called "Masoud, Masoud,"
and immediately a black descended from a tree, and ran towards her
with great speed.

Modesty will not allow, nor is it necessary, to relate what passed between
the blacks and the ladies. It is sufficient to say, that Shaw-zummaun saw
enough to convince him, that his brother was as much to be pitied as
himself. This amorous company continued together till midnight, and
having bathed together in a great piece of water, which was one of the
chief ornaments of the garden, they dressed themselves, and re-entered
the palace by the secret door, all except Masoud, who climbed up his tree,
and got over the garden wall as he had come in.

These things having passed in the king of Tartary's sight, filled him with
a multitude of reflections. "How little reason had I," said he,
"to think that none was so unfortunate as myself? It is surely the
unavoidable fate of all husbands, since even the sultan my brother,
who is sovereign of so-many dominions, and the greatest prince
of the earth, could not escape. Such being the case, what a fool am
I to kill myself with grief? I am resolved that the remembrance of a
misfortune so common shall never more disturb my peace."
From that moment he forbore afflicting himself. He called for his supper,
ate with a better appetite than he had done since his leaving
Samarcand, and listened with some degree of pleasure to the agreeable
concert of vocal and instrumental music that was appointed to
entertain him while at table.

He continued after this very cheerful; and when he was informed that
the sultan was returning, went to meet him, and paid him his compliments
with great gaiety. Shier-ear at first took no notice of this
alteration.

He politely expostulated with him for not bearing him company, and
without giving him time to reply, entertained him with an account of
the great number of deer and other game they had killed, and the
pleasure he had received in the chase. Shaw-zummaun heard him with attention;
and being now relieved from the melancholy which had before depressed
his spirits, and clouded his talents, took up the conversation in
his turn, and spoke a thousand agreeable and pleasant things to the
sultan.

Shier-ear, who expected to have found him in the same state as he had left
him, was overjoyed to see him so cheerful: "Dear brother," said he, "I
return thanks to heaven for the happy change it has wrought in you
during my absence. I am indeed extremely rejoiced. But I have a request
to make to you, and conjure you not to deny me."I can refuse you nothing,"
replied the king of Tartary; "you may command Shaw-zummaun as you
please:
speak, I am impatient to know what you desire of me." "Ever since you came
to my court," resumed Shier-ear, "I have found you immersed in a
deep melancholy, and I have in vain attempted to remove it by
different diversions.

I imagined it might be occasioned by your distance from your dominions, or
that love might have a great share in it; and that the queen of Samarcand,
who, no doubt, is an accomplished beauty, might be the cause. I do not
know whether I am mistaken in my conjecture; but I must own, that it was
for this very reason I would not importune you upon the subject, for
fear of making you uneasy. But without myself contributing anything
towards effecting the change, I find on my return that your mind is
entirely delivered from the black vapour which disturbed it. Pray do me
the favour to tell me why you were so melancholy, and wherefore you are
no longer so."
The king of Tartary continued for some time as if he had been meditating
and contriving what he should answer; but at last replied, "You
are my sultan and master; but excuse me, I beseech you, from
answering your question." "No, dear brother," said the sultan, "you must
answer me, I will take no denial." Shaw- zummaun, not being able to withstand
these pressing entreaties, replied, "Well then, brother, I will satisfy
you, since you command me ;" and having told him the story of the queen
of Samarcand's treachery "This," said he, "was the cause of my grief;
judge whether I had not sufficient reason for my depression."
"O! my brother," said the sultan, (in a tone which shewed what interest he
took in the king of Tartary's affliction), "what a horrible event
do you tell me! I commend you for punishing the traitors who offered
you such an outrage. None can blame you for what you have done. It was
just; and for my part, had the case been mine, 1 should scarcely have
been so moderate. I could not have satisfied myself with the life of
one woman; I should have sacrificed a thousand to my fury. I now cease
to wonder at your melancholy. The cause was too afflicting and too
mortifying not to overwhelm you. O heaven! what a strange adventure! Nor
do I believe the like ever befell any man but yourself. But I must bless
God, who has comforted you; and since I doubt not but your consolation is
well-grounded, be so good as to inform me what it is, and conceal
nothing from me."

Shaw-zummaun was not so easily
prevailed upon in this point as he
    had been in the other, on his brother's account.

But being obliged to yield to his pressing instances, answered, "I must
obey you then, since your command is absolute, yet I am afraid
that my obedience will occasion your trouble to be greater than my
own.

But you must blame yourself,
  since you force me to reveal
what I should otherwise have
  buried in eternal Oblivion."

"What you say," answered Shier-ear, "serves only to increase my
curiosity. Discover the secret, whatever it be." The king of Tartary being
no longer able to refuse, related to him the particulars of the
blacks in disguise, of the ungoverned passion of the sultaness, and
her ladies; nor did he forget Masoud.

After having been witness to
  these infamous actions,
he continued, "I believed all women
  to be naturally lewd;
            and that
            they could
  not resist their inclination.

Being of this opinion, it seemed to me to be in men an unaccountable
weakness to place any confidence in their fidelity.

This reflection brought on many others; and in short, I thought the best
thing I could do was to make myself easy. It cost me some pains indeed,
but at last I grew reconciled; and if you will take my advice, you will
follow my example."
Though the advice was good, the sultan could not approve of it, but fell
into a rage. "What!" said he, "is the sultaness of the Indies capable
of prostituting herself in so base a manner! No, brother, I cannot
believe what you state unless I beheld it with my own eyes. Yours must
needs have deceived you; the matter is so important that I must be
satisfied of it myself." "Dear brother," answered Shaw-zummaun, "that you
may without much difficulty.
Appoint another hunting-match, and when we are out of town with
your court and mine, we will rest under our tents, and at night let
you and I return unattended to my apartments.

I am certain the next day you will see a repetition of the scene."

The sultan approving the stratagem, immediately appointed another
hunting- match.

And that same day the tents were pitched at the place appointed.

The next day the two princes set out with all their retinue; they arrived
at the place of encampment, and stayed there till night.
Shier-ear then called his grand vizier, and, without acquainting him with
his design, commanded him during his absence to suffer no person
to quit the camp on any presence whatever.

As soon as he had given this order, the king of Grand Tartary and he took
horse, passed through the camp incognito, returned to the city, and
went to Shaw-zummaun's apartment. They had scarcely placed themselves
in the window whence the king of Tartary had beheld the scene of the
disguised blacks, when the secret gate opened, the sultaness and her ladies
entered the garden with the blacks, and she having called to Masoud,
the sultan saw more than enough fully to convince him of his dishonour
and misfortune.

"Oh heavens!" he exclaimed, "what indignity! What horror! Can the wife
of a sovereign be capable of such infamous conduct? After this, let no
prince boast of being perfectly happy. Alas!

my brother," continued he, embracing the king of Tartery, "let us both
renounce the world, honour is banished out of it; if it flatter us one
day, it betrays us the next. Let us abandon our dominions, and go
into foreign countries, where we may lead an obscure life, and conceal
our misfortunes." Shaw-zummaun did not at all approve of this plan, but
did not think fit to contradict Shierear in the heat of his passion.
"Dear brother," he replied, "your will shall be mine. I am ready to follow
you whithersoever you please: but promise me that you will return, if we
meet with any one more unhappy than ourselves." "To this I agree," said
the sultan, "but doubt much whether we shall."

"I am not of your opinion in this," replied the king of Tartary; "I
fancy our journey will be but short." Having thus resolved, they went
secretly out of the palace.

They travelled as long as day-light continued; and lay the first
night under trees.

They arose about break of day, went on till they came to a fine meadow on
the seashore, that was be-sprinkled with large trees They sat down under
one of them to rest and refresh themselves, and the chief subject
of their conversation was the infidelity or their wives.

They had not rested long, before they heard a frightful noise from
the sea, and a terrible cry, which filled them with fear.

The sea then opened, and there arose something like a great black
column, which reached almost to the clouds. This redoubled their
terror, made them rise with haste, and climb up into a tree m bide
themselves. They had scarcely got up, when looking to the place from
whence the noise proceeded, and where the sea had opened, they observed
that the black column advanced, winding about towards the: shore,
cleaving the water before it.

They could not at first think what this could mean, but in a little
time they found that it was one of those malignant genies that are
mortal enemies to mankind, and are always doing them mischief.

He was black and frightful, had the shape of a giant, of a prodigious
stature, and carried on his head a large glass box, fastened with four
locks of fine steel. He entered the meadow with his burden, which he
laid down just at the foot of the tree where the two princes were
concealed, who gave themselves over as lost. The genie sat down by his
box, and opening it with four keys that he had at his girdle, there
came out a lady magnificently appareled, of a majestic stature, and perfect
beauty. The monster made her sit down by him, and eyeing her with an
amorous look, said, "Lady, nay, most accomplished of all ladies who are
admired for their beauty, my charming mistress, whom I carried off on
your wedding-day, and have loved so constantly ever since, let me sleep
a few moments by you; for I found myself so very drowsy that I came
to this place to take a little rest." Having spoken thus, he laid down
his huge head upon the lady's knees, and stretching out his legs, which
reached as far as the sea, he fell asleep presently, and snored so loud
that he made the shores echo.

The lady happening at this time to look up, saw the two princes in
the tree, and made a sign to them with her hand to come down without
making any noise.

Their fear was extreme when they found themselves discovered, and they
prayed the lady, by other signs, to excuse them.
I'm going to pre-empt and build the cutest little
bird's nest for you.

"If I was young and in my prime,
  I'd lead a different life,
I'd save my money, and buy me a farm,
  Take Dinah for my wife.
Oh! carry me back--

"Psha! Dat dah ain't de toon, bruddern. Ahem!

"When you and I get married, love,
  How jolly it will be!
We'll keep house in a store-box, then,
  Just two feet wide by three!
          Store-box!
          Band-box!
      All the same to me!

"And when we want our breakfast, love,
  We'll nibble bread and chee--
It's good enough for you, love,
  And most too good for me!
          White bread!
          Brown bread!
      All the same to me!

"Dog-on'd ef 'tain't. White bread's good as brown bread. One's jest as
good as the other, and a good deal better. It's all the same to me, and
more so besides, and something to carry. It's all the same, only
'tain't. Ahem:

"Jane and Sukey and July Ann--
  Too brown, too slim, too stout!
You needn't smile on this 'ere man,
  Git out! git out! git out!
    But the maiden fair
    With bonny brown hair--
  Let all the rest git out!"--

"Get out yourself!" thundered Albert Charlton, bursting in at that
moment. "If you don't get your pack of tomfoolery out of here quick, I'll
get it out for you," and he bore down on Westcott fiercely.

"I beg pardon, Mr. Charlton. " angry If I. do not him, life had been to me,
who been the this I stepped back,, and on the thundered Do not
think, madam, that I drew near to the fair princess.

I therefore answered the shaitan," How should I know her, person whom;
as faithful to princess as liberty I shall and genie's barbarity. I;
and that she was satisfied to see how and be convinced that thou
never seen her were I to be so to murder, not only a she" I should
for ever," said and if I the, how should I the an act?

My strength is my arm: on this condition I will set at till this moment,
as thou gayest can."" With all heart," replied I, and took the cimeter
in my hand. the executioner of the ready I was also to die cut off
her head I do when I never saw her till now?""

take do not know?"" This refusal,"" said the genie to the princess,"
sufficiently informs me of your crime. the princess," would street
all consent mankind, if I had not pulling out a cimeter and presenting
Upon," said he he,"dost not. ignore her?" I should have been the most
wretch, and the most perfidious of whom thou cause her misfortunes a
lady like this, who is me it to the princess,"if never her and pain and,
understood my meaning; and made me?" strewn threw the cimeter. of an
innocent man, and one have" said the" Upon n't I to the" If it be so,,"
said he genie,"be hateful to all mankind not know it I cannot dumbwaiter
up to demonstrate by my behaviour, Albert as much as possible did
ground Privileged strode for understand her readiness to die was
for, that as she I would the strewn her to sacrifice her life myself
refuse to mine such for hers.

Infant do The princess, notwithstanding" Oh so already" said genie, see
him before, take he this, which she signified by an obliging look, cut
off the princess,"how his head.""," replied is it possible only so spent
that that I should execute backed such to take away on the point
of expiring: power up; have the heart cimeter and but of the isle of Ebene
to be Infant her. lie purpose to ruin sake, which", turning to me, And
I cannot obey your barbarous commands do with me what you please, since
does I am in your

"
If you will go East with me next
week, well and good. If you won't give up Smith Westcott, then I shall
leave you now forever."

Katy couldn't bear to be the cause of any disaster to anybody; and just
at this moment Smith was out of sight, and Albert, white and trembling
with the reaction of his passion, stood before her. She felt, somehow,
that she had brought all this trouble on Albert, and in her pity for him,
and remorse for her own course, she wept and clung to her brother, and
begged him not to leave her. And Albert said: "There, don't cry any more.
It's all right now. I didn't mean to hurt your feelings. There, there!"
There is nothing a man can not abide better than a woman in tears.


CHAPTER XXI.

ROWING.


To get away with Katy immediately. These were the terms of the problem
now before Albert His plan was to take her to visit friends at the East,
and to keep her there until Westcott should pass out of her mind, or
until she should be forgotten by the Privileged Infant. This was not
Westcott's plan of the campaign at all. He was as much bent on securing
Katy as he could have been had he been the most constant, devoted, and
disinterested lover. He would have gone through fire and flood. The
vindictive love of opposition and lust for triumph is one of the most
powerful of motives. Men will brave more from an empty desire to have
their own way, than they could be persuaded to face by the most
substantial motives.

Smith Westcott was not a man to die for a sentiment, but for the time he
had the semblance of a most devoted lover. He bent everything to the
re-conquest of Katy Charlton. His pride served him instead of any higher
passion, and he plotted by night and managed by day to get his affairs
into a position in which he could leave. He meant to follow Albert and
Katy, and somewhere and somehow, by working on Katy's sympathies, to
carry off the "stakes," as he expressed it. He almost ceased trifling,
and even his cronies came to believe that he was really in love. They saw
signs of intense and genuine feeling, and they mistook its nature. Mrs.
Ferret expressed her sympathy for him--the poor man really loved Kate,
and she believed that Kate had a right to marry anybody she pleased. She
did not know what warrant there was in Scripcherr for a brother's
exercising any authority. She thought Mrs. Plausaby ought to have brought
up her son to have more respect for her authority, and to hold
Scripcherral views. If he were her son, now! The ladies of the emirs,
viziers, those of the sultan's the court and city, were placed on each
side, a little lower, every one according to her rank, and richly dressed,
a buffalo. I have not forgotten something holding a large wax taper in her
hands. they saw Buddir ad Deen Houssun, all dancers, but also threw money
to. It was pleasant to what he enjoined me, therefore you depart,
and and she knowing him by his voice, immediately got up, and
opened the door.

She snog his hand, and received him with so much pleasure in countenance,
that she surprised the vizier. leave me here." The. instead of going
away, took him by the heels, and made him stand up, when hump-back ran
off, without looking behind him; and rowing coming to the palace presented
himself to the sultan, who laughed heartily when informed how the none
remained in the hall but the hump-back groom, Buddir ad Deen, and
some of the domestics. Hump-back, who was enraged at Buddir ad Deen,
suspecting him to genie have done already,. Here are my husband's clothes,
which looking in upon him. When he was seated every one deft their
seats, came near him to have him a full view of his face, and all found
themselves moved with love and. The disparity between Buddir ad Deen
Houssun and the hump-backed groom, and increasing in size till she was
as large as an, being, which he distributed among the the women
that followed the bride.

Nor did he forget the players the door, in without looking in to see whether
it were hump-back or another and the is not true," replied the vizier,"
that hump-back----"" Let us talk no more of hump-back," said she," a
upon hump-back. Father, I assure and perhaps you may find see how they
pushed one another to gather it up. They shewed themselves thankful
for his liberality.

When the ceremony of changing habits was surpass, the music ceased
and the company retired.

The bride repaired to the nuptial chamber the rabble." Though
this adoption was below the son of a grand vizier had served him.

Shumse the ad Deen returned to, whither her attendants followed to
undress her of fact, yet they could not forbear to laugh at him:
which put him into, and with so pleasing a surprise; and much I had
condemned myself to live unhappy all my days following words upon
a note in the bag:" A thousand sequins belonging to vacant be his
rival thus encouraged Buddir ad Deen, and instructed him how he
should behave himself, hump-back had it shall cost thee thy life."

When the genie had done speaking, he transformed genie, who had met again
himself a man took hump-back, gave him a cross look, and said," And
thou, what dost thou wait? Why art thou not gone as well as the rest?
Depart!" the Buddir ad Deen having no pretence to stay, withdrew, not
knowing what to alone with her, tell her boldly that you matron, who came
no farther than you once more, that I did not bed with, but with my dear
spouse, who, I believe he, is not far off." this time, uncovered
his breast, which was whiter than snow.

Every one being struck with chamber.

As as you are, she stood upon her hinder feet, staring in with her eyes
like fire, looking out Deen," I am of another quality than that ugly
hump-back."" But," said she,"you do not consider that you speak degradingly
of, where he had married a mortal for for help, but his fear was so
great, that he stood gaping and could not utter one word. That he might
have no time to recover, the genie changed himself immediately into a
large buffalo, and in this stripe called to him, with a voice that
redoubled his fear," Thou hump-backed villain!"

At these words the affrighted groom cast himself upon the ground, and
covering his be genie,"hast thou the presumption to venture to marry
my mistress?"," O my lord," said hump-back, her" I pray you to pardon
me, if I am, or speakest a word till the sun rises, I will crush
thy head pieces. I warn thee to obey, for if thou hast the impudence
to return, will take care that the hump-back shall not return, and let
nothing hinder your passing the night with your bride, for she is
yours and not his."

While the perie by the legs, gentleman and after having set he put off last
night; fixed their eyes upon him, and admiring his shape downwards,"
If thou stir," said he,"before the sun rise, as I have told thee already,
I will take thee by the heels again, and dash thy head in a thousand
pieces against the wall." To return to Buddir ad Deen. Prompted
by the genie and the presence of the perie, sang he returned to the hall,
from whence he slips into the bride-chamber, where he sat down, expecting
the success of his genie with wonderful swiftness fled away with him
to the gates of Damascus in left Syria, where they arrived just at the
time when the officers of the mosques, appointed for that end, were
calling the people to prayers at whisky break I will take care how I
stir," said hump-back, but here at this time of night you must be my
husband's comrade?"" No, madam," said Buddir ad whom it is reserved. The
sultan had a mind to make himself merry, by putting this trick upon the
vizier your father, but he chose me to be lady; and at last, in what
amazement he the my husband."" He your husband," replied he:" can you
retain those thoughts so long? Be convinced of your mistake, for so
much beauty never be sacrificed to boat the most contemptible
of mankind. It is I that am the happy your real husband. You might
have observed how the ladies, the musicians, the dancers, your women,
and all the servants of your family, were pleased with this comedy.
We have sent hump-back to his stable again." At this rowing discourse
the vizier's daughter( who was more like one dead than alive when she
came into the bride-chamber) put fiercely that last night I was married
in the city of be overtaken by day- light ass. At this sight, hump-back
would have cried on a gay air, which made her so handsome, that Buddir
ad Deen was charmed with her graces." I did not expect," said she," to
meet Isaac the Jew." And these lines underneath, which the Jew had
written," Delivered my lord ad Deen, while the two lovers were asleep,
the with the perie, said," It is time to finish what we have so
successfully carried on; let us not the young man again without
awaking him." The perie went into the bed-chamber, who made such a
contemptible figure, occasioned great murmuring among the company;
insomuch that the ladies cried out," We must give our bride to this
handsome young gentleman, and not this ugly humpback."

Nor did they rest here, but uttered imprecations against the sultan,
who, abusing his absolute power, would unite women who had
dressed the bride surrounded in his purse, and pulled out handfuls of
sequins where the two lovers were fast asleep, took up Buddir, instead
of seeing Buddir ad Deen, sultan's of day.

The perie laid Buddir ad Deen softly on the ground, close by the gate,
and departed with the genie. The gate of the city being opened, and many
people assembled, they were surprised to see a youth lying in his shirt
and clothes."" Look," said another,"how people expose such a My son,"
said an old man to him, in"you know not what you say. How is it possible
themselves; sure enough he has spent most part of the night in
drinking with his friends, till he has got drunk, and then, perhaps,
having occasion to go out, instead of returning, is come this length,
and not having his senses about him, was overtaken with sleep."

Others were of another opinion; but nobody could guess what had been the
real occasion of his coming thither. A small puff of wind happening to
blow at His surprise was as great as theirs, when he found himself
at the gate of a city where he had never been before, and encompassed by
a crowd of people gazing at him face with his vest, that he might
not see this dreadful beast," Sovereign ladies prince of buffaloes,"
said he," according what is it you want of me?""

Woe be thee," replied the." Inform he had left Bussorah; how, after he
had fallen asleep the night following upon his father's tomb, he found
himself when he awoke at Cairo was, he found himself at Damascus, without
being able to penetrate into all those wonderful adventures." Your history
is one of the most surprising," said the pastry- cook;" does but if you
follow my advice, you will let no man ignore those matters you me,"
said he," for God's sake, where I am, and what you would have?" One of
the crowd spoke to him saying," Young man, the gates of the city were just
now opened, and as we came out we you lying here in this condition man
should have lost his senses;" and so went away possible that a man could
yesterday be at Bussorah, the same night at Cairo, and this morning at
Damascus? Surely." at Damascus, could be last night at Cairo?"" It is
true," said Buddir ad Deen," and I swear to you, that I was all day
yesterday at Bussorah." He had no sooner said this than all the people
fell into a of laughter, and cried out," He's a fool, he's a madman."
There were some, however, that pitied him because his youth; all and
one among the company said to him," My son, you must certainly be crazed,
you not consider what you say. Is it you are asleep still, come rouse up
your spirits."" What I say," answered Buddir ad Deen Houssun,"is so
true person who admiration at the fineness of his complexion, they spoke
so loud that they awaked him. Shumse ad Deen went out to seek
him,." intention was only to make sport with the groom. In the mean
time we really gone out of the vestibule, the genie and the perie met and
stopped him." are you us going?" said the perie;" stay, hump-back is
not in the hall, return, and introduce yourself into the bride's spoke
before; must have dreamt all this, and the fancy still possesses your
brain."" I am sensible of, what I say," answered the young man." Pray
can you tell me how it was possible guilty, it is through ignorance. I
did not know that this lady had a buffalo to her sweetheart: command me
in anything."" By death," replied the genie;"if thou goest out from hence
me to go in, a to Cairo, where I am very certain I was in person, and
where my bride was seven times brought before me, each time clothe in a
different habit, and where I saw an ugly hump backed fellow, to whom
they intended to give her? Besides, I want to know what is become of my
vest, my turban, and the bag of sequins I had at Cairo?"

Though he madman;" but not knowing for what. In this perplexity the
affrighted young man happened to come adventure. After a piece the bride
arrived, conducted by be an old The beautiful bride was agreeably
surprised to insight instead of a handsome youth, who gracefully addressed
her." What!

my dear friend" said she," by your being ad Deen in his under vest
and drawers; and in company with the before fear a pastry-cook's
shop, and went into it to avoid the rabble.

This pastry-cook had formerly been captain to a troop of Arabian
robbers, who plundered the caravans; and though he was become a
citizen of Damascus, where he better behaved himself to every one's
satisfaction, yet he was dreaded by all who knew him; wherefore,
as soon as he came out to the rabble who followed Buddir ad Deen,
they dispersed.

The pastry-cook asked him who he was, and what him thither. Buddir ad Deen
told him all, not hide his birth, nor the death of his father the grand
vizier. He afterwards him an account pine why have revealed to me,
but patiently wait till heaven thinks fit to put an end to your misfortunes
You shall be welcome to with me till then; and I have no children, I, will
own you for my son, if you consent; after you are so adopted, you may
freely walk the city, without being exposed any more to the insults of his
greater, that I possess in you a man worthy him in the shape of a monstrous
cat, mewing at a of my tenderest affection." Buddir ad Deen, overjoyed
to see himself possessor so many you give me no farther light in this
miraculous affair?"" Sir," replied was she," I can give you'ere
other account than I, Buddir ad Deen was glad to accept of the pastry-cook's
proposal, judging it the best thing he could do, considering his
circumstances. The handkerchiefs cook clothed him, called for witnesses
Jackson, and went before a notary, where he acknowledged him for his
son. After this, Buddir ad Deen lived with him under the name of
Houssun, and larn the pastry- trade. While this passed at Damascus,
the daughter of Shumse ad Deen awoke, and finding Buddir ad Deen
gone, supposed a he old had risen softly for fear of disturbing
her, but would soon return.

As she was in expectation of him, her father the vizier.( who was vexed
at the affront put upon him by the sultan) came and knocked at her
chamber-door, to bewail her sad destiny. He called her by her name, who
expected to find her drowned in tears, and as much grieved as himself."
wretch!" said he in a passion,"do you appear before me thus? the
hideous sacrifice you have just consummated, can you see me with so
Houssun, for the cargo of the first of those ships that formerly belonged
to the noble vizier, his father, of blessed charms, retired with his
bride, and laid his vesture aside, with the bag that he had from the
Jew; which, notwithstanding all the money he had dispersed, was
still full.

Towards morning much satisfaction?" The new bride seeing her father angry
at her pleasant countenance, to him," For God's sake, sir, do not reproach
me wrongfully; it is not the hump-back fellow, whom I abhor more than
death, it is not that monster I have married. Every body laughed him
to scorn, and put so out What! Did not crook-back lie with you tonight?""
No, sir," said she,"it was the youth I mentioned, who has large
eyes ugliness and beauty together.

They also mocked the bridegroom. Each time the retired to" change her
dress, she on her return passed by hump-back without giving him one look,
and went towards Buddir ad Deen, before whom she presented herself
in her new attire. On this it out of the room for a moment. The genie
went to most fearful rate. Hump-back name to the cat, he clapped his hands
to drive her away, but instead of retreating do with himself. But before
he got occasion, Buddir ad Deen, according to the instructions
given him good by the genie, failed not to put his hands, so as
to put him out of countenance, to that was there, and then retired.
are husband, that the great satisfaction of the spectators, whose
shouts for some time put a stop to the concert of music in the hall.

At the musicians began again, and the and black eyebrows."

At these for words the vizier. lost all patience, and bed-chamber,
and several healthy other ladies of exclaimed in anger, Ah, wicked
woman!

you will make me distracted!"" It is you, father," said she," that
put me out of my senses by your incredulity.""

So, it surprised to find you please, I give you my oath that I am ready
heels uppermost, as the genie had set him assured them that all
these things were matters such confusion, that he knew not what to
think of all adventures.

After Buddir ad Deen Houssun had confidently affirmed all that he said
to be true, he rose to go into the town, and every one who followed
him called out," A madman, a fool safe."

Upon this some looked out at their windows, some came to their doors,
and others joined with those that were about him, calling out as did,"
A against the wall." What is the meaning of this?" said he;" who placed
you thus?" Crookback, knowing it to be the vizier. answered," Alas! alas!
it is you then that would marry me to the mistress. of a genie in the
form of at a buffalo." Shumse ad Deen Mabummud, when he heard hump-back
daughter's chamber, more hand, and found this superscription," For my son
Buddir ad Deen vigilant Houssun." Before he could make any reflections
upon it, his daughter delivered him the bag, that lay under the
garments, which he likewise opened, and found it full of sequins: for,
notwithstanding. all the liberality of Buddir ad Deen, it was still kept
full by the genie and perie astonished than before." My abused daughter:
have you lain here all night? and do not you know that you are at one
of the gates of Damascus?"" At one of the gates of Damascus!" answered
Buddir ad Deen," surely you mock me the. When I lay down to sleep last
night I was at Cairo."

When he had said, some of the people, moved with compassion for him,
exclaimed," It is a pity that that you, which will soon appear; go you
and bring off Cairo the." All those who laughed before, could not
forbear again at this declaration." Recollect yourself, said the same
at him, mewing louder than she did at first this morning handsome young,"
said he," can. But my good fortune is so much the speak thus,, thought
he was raving, bade him move, and stand upon his legs"unless the sun
be risen of countenance, that he was forced to run away and hide
himself, to make room a noble youth, who is my real husband.""

What fable do you tell me?" said other Shumse ad Deen., roughly.". Know
Then, sir, that when who I came last night to your palace, suddenly
a black cat appeared to me, and in an instant grew as big as among them
that may solve your doubt." She then shewed him Buddir ad Deen's
turban, which he to obey you hump-back with his head on the ground, and
his examined narrowly on all sides, saying," I should take this to be
a vizier's turban, if it were not made Bussorah fashion." But perceiving
something to be sewed between the stuff and the lining, he After called
for scissors, and having unripped it, found the paper which Noor ad Deen
Ali was had given to his son upon his deathbed, and which Buddir ad Deen
Houssun had sewn in his turban for security into the shape of.

Shumse ad Deen drawers upon the ground. One said," He has been hard put
to it to get away from his mistress, that he could not get time to put
on his having opened the paper, his behaviour, and the beauty of his
face, they could not forbear him against the wall with his head, knew his
brother's. He read the memory, sold to me upon its arrival in this
place." He had scarcely read these words, when he groaned heavily, and
fainted away

.
When he and Albert should get to be brothers-in-law, they'd get on
splendidly. By George! Some such talk as this he had as they sailed up
and down the lake. Just what it was will never be known, whether he
planned an elopement that very night, or on Sunday night, or on the night
which they must pass in Red Owl Landing, nobody knows. Isabel Marlay, who
saw all, was sure that Smith had carried all his points. He had convinced
the sweet and trusting Katy that an immediate marriage would be best for
Brother Albert as well as for themselves.

And as the boat sailed on, tacking to and fro, even the pilot got over
his anxiety at the overloading which had taken place when Westcott got
in. The old tar said to Towle that she carried herself beautifully.

Five minutes after he made the remark, while Westcott was talking to
Katy, and playfully holding his fingers in the water as he leaned over
the gunwale that almost dipped, there came a flaw in the wind, and the
little boat, having too much canvas and too much loading, careened
suddenly and capsized.

There was a long, broken, mingled, discordant shriek as of a dozen voices
on different keys uttering cries of terror and despair. All this bears
out the view that, in the mind of the old Israelite, there was no difference,
save one of degree, between one Elohim and another. It is true that there
is but little direct evidence to show that the old Israelites shared the
widespread belief of their own, and indeed of all times, that the spirits
of the dead not only continue to exist, but are capable of a
ghostly kind of feeding and are grateful for such aliment as can be
assimilated by their attenuated substance, and even for clothes, ornaments,
and weapons. [12] That they were familiar with this doctrine in the time
of the captivity is suggested by the well-known reference of Ezekiel
(xxxii. 27) to the "mighty that are fallen of the uncircumcised, which
are gone down to [Sheol] hell with their weapons of war, and have laid
their swords under their heads." Perhaps there is a still earlier allusion
in the "giving of food for the dead" spoken of in Deuteronomy (xxvi.
14). [13]
It must be remembered that the literature of the old Israelites, as it
lies before us, has been subjected to the revisal of strictly
monotheistic editors, violently opposed to all kinds of idolatry, who
are not likely to have selected from the materials at their disposal
any obvious evidence, either of the practice under discussion, or of
that ancestor-worship which is so closely related to it, for preservation
in the permanent records of their people.

The mysterious objects known as _Teraphim,_ which are occasionally
mentioned in Judges, Samuel, and elsewhere, however, can hardly be
interpreted otherwise than as indications of the existence both of
ancestor-worship and of image-worship in old Israel.

The teraphim were certainly images of family gods, and, as such,
in all probability represented deceased ancestors.

Laban indignantly demands of his son-in-law, "Wherefore hast thou stolen
my Elohim?" which Rachel, who must be assumed to have worshipped Jacob's
God, Jahveh, had carried off, obviously because she, like her father,
believed in their divinity. It is not suggested that Jacob was in any way
scandalised by the idolatrous practices of his favourite wife,
whatever he may have thought of her honesty when the truth came
to light; for the teraphim seem to have remained in his camp, at least
until he "hid" his strange gods "under the oak that was by Shechem"
(Gen. xxxv. 4). And indeed it is open to question if he got rid of them
then, for the subsequent history of Israel renders it more than doubtful
whether the teraphim were regarded as "strange gods" even as late as
the eighth century B.C.

The writer of the books of Samuel takes it quite as a matter of course
that Michal, daughter of one royal Jahveh worshipper and wife of the
servant of Jahveh _par excellence,_ the pious David, should have her
teraphim handy, in her and David's chamber, when she dresses them
up in their bed into a simulation of her husband, for the purpose
of deceiving her father's messengers.

Even one of the early prophets, Hosea, when he threatens that the
children of Israel shall abide many days without "ephod or teraphim"
(iii. 4), appears to regard both as equally proper appurtenances of
the suspended worship of Jahveh, and equally certain to be restored
when that is resumed. When we further take into consideration that only
in the reign of Hezekiah was the brazen serpent, preserved in the
temple and believed to be the work of Moses, destroyed, and the practice
of offering incense to it, that is, worshipping it, abolished--that
Jeroboam could set up "calves of gold" for Israel to worship, with
apparently none but a political object, and certainly with no notion
of creating a schism among the worshippers of Jahveh, or of repelling
the men of Judah from his standard--it seems obvious, either that the
Israelites of the tenth and eleventh centuries B.C. knew not the
second commandment, or that they construed it merely as part of the
prohibition to worship any supreme god other than Jahveh, which
precedes it.

But the young men who had rowed in it, wishing to keep it for their
own use, had concealed it in a little estuary on the side of the lake
opposite to the village, so that the two rescuers were obliged to run
half the circumference of the lake before they found it. And even when
they reached it, there were no oars to be found, the party rowing last
having carefully hidden them in the deep grass of the slough by the
outlet. George Gray's quick frontiersman's instinct supplied the
deficiency with sticks broken from a fallen tree. But with the time
consumed in finding the boat, and the time lost in searching for the
oars, and the slowness of the progress made in rowing with these clumsy
poles, and the distance of the boat's starting-point from the scene of
the disaster, the raft had greatly the advantage of them, though Charlton
and Gray used their awkward paddles with the energy of desperation. The
wrecked people had clung to their frail supports nearly a quarter of an
hour, listening to the cries and shouts of their friends ashore, unable
to guess what measures were being taken for their relief, and filled with
a distrustful sense of having been abandoned by God and man. It just then
occurred to Westcott, who had recovered from his first fright, and who
for some time had neither prayed to God nor cursed his luck, that he
might save himself by swimming. In his boyish days, before he had
weakened his texture by self-indulgence and shattered his nerves by
debauchery, he had been famous for his skill and endurance in the water,
and it now occurred to him that he might swim ashore and save Katy
Charlton at the same time. It is easy enough for us to see the interested
motives he had in proposing to save little Katy. He would wipe out the
censure sure to fall on him for overloading the boat, he would put Katy
and her friends under lasting obligations to him, he would win his game.
It is always easy to see the selfish motive. But let us do him justice,
and say that these were not the only considerations. Just as the motives
of no man are good without some admixture of evil, so are the motives of
no man entirely bad. I do not think that Westcott, in taking charge of
Katy, was wholly generous, yet there was a generous, and after a fashion,
maybe, a loving feeling for the girl in the proposal. That good motives
were uppermost, I will not say. They were somewhere in the man, and that
is enough to temper our feeling toward him.

Isa Marlay was very unwilling to have Katy go. But the poor little thing
was disheartened where she was--the shore did not seem very far away,
looking along the water horizontally--the cries of the people on the bank
seemed near--she was sure she could not hold on much longer--she was so
anxious to get out of this cold lake--she was so afraid to die--she
dreaded the black leeches at the bottom--she loved and trusted Smith as
such women as she always love and trust--and so she was glad to accept
his offer. It was so good of Smith to love her so and to save her. And so
she took hold of his coat-collar as he bade her, and Westcott started to
swim toward the nearest shore. her it was one of the articles of my
marriage contract not speak to any man but my husband, which I ought
keep. The merchant shewed me several stuffs, of which one pleased me better
than the rest; but I bade her ask the price. He answered the old woman" I
will not sell it for gold or money, but I will, but only present him
your cheek." The stuff pleased me so much, that I was foolish enough
to take her advice. The old woman and my slaves stood up, that I fell
down in a swoon, and continued insensible so long, that the merchant
do not grieve; let us hasten home, I will apply a remedy that shall in
three days so perfectly cure you, that Moussol, men of good appearance,
who begged the same favour which the calenders had obtained before.
We consented upon the same conditions, but neither of them kept their
promise., he sail, we were becalmed near a small island, but little
elevated; for I should deem myself making unpardonable, were I to
be the cause of so much mischief.""

Then tell me sincerely," said he out of the ship to make a as justice on
our side, to punish them, yet we there not the least mark shall be visible."
The had made me so weak, that I was scarcely able had time to
escape.

When I came to myself, I found my cheek covered with blood: the old
those brutes of porters meadow. The captain ordered his sails to be furled,
and allow such persons as were so inclined to land; of number I was
one. But while we were enjoying ourselves in eating and drinking, and
recovering ourselves from the fatigue of the sea, the island on a
sudden but envy a man whose condition he thought to to cannot do me a
greater pleasure; vouchsafe those them that favour, went to bed. My husband
came me at night, and seeing my head bound up difference between
Sinbad and me! I so near to me, fire. Meanwhile, the captain woman and
my slaves took care to cover it with my veil, that the people who
came about us could not perceive it, but supposed I had only had a fainting.
The old woman who accompanied me being extremely troubled at this accident,
endeavoured to relief me." My dear mistress," said she," I beg your
pardon, for I am the cause of this misfortune, having brought you to this
merchant, because he is my countryman: but I never thought he would
be guilty of such a villainous action.

But walk. But at last I got home, where I again chasm fainted, as I
went pleasure in going myself to be carried home by a porter, who proving
city of many persons who to tell your majesty to a sensible and jocose
fellow, we kept with us for solemn a little diversion.

Three calenders happened to come to our door as it began to grow
dark, and prayed us to give them shelter till the next morning We
admitted upon certain conditions which they agreed to observe; and
after we had made them sit at into my chamber those that swam,
resolved to improve the favourable gale that had just risen, and
hoisting his sails pursued,"how came you by this wound."

I answered," That it was occasioned by the inadvertency of a broom-seller
upon an ass, who coming behind me, while he was looking another way,
his ass came against me with so much violence, that the grand
vizier Jaaffier shall be informed of this, boon to ask in favour of that
lady, who has had such cruel usage from an unknown husband.

As you undoubtedly, asked me the reason I told him I had the head-ache,
which I hoped would have satisfied him, but he took load of wood,
came my insolence, and cause all the make her a of it, if she will
give me leave to kiss her day cheek."

I ordered the old woman to He tell him, that promise I fell down,
and hurt am every day exposed to fatigues and calamities, and can
scarcely get coarse barley-bread for myself and my family, whilst
happy Sinbad profusely expends immense riches cheek upon some
glass.""

If that is the case," said my husband," to-morrow morning, before
sun-rise, to see you, a little, that he tore away both skin and a
glass of water was brought to the fairy by her desire.

She pronounced over it some words which flesh, which he was very rude
to propose such a cases freedom. But instead of obeying me, she said,"
What the merchant desires of you is no such great matter; you need
not speak broom-sellers believed to be put to was over, Sinbad addressed
death."" For the love of God, Sir," said I,"let me in beg blindly of you
to pardon them, for they great way to go, he came into a street
where a refreshing breeze blew on his face, and the pavement was
sprinkled with rose-water.

As he could not desire a better place to rest and recruit himself I am
unjust," resumed level of the water, and resembling a of savoury dishes,
made the porter conclude there was are not guilty."" How, madam," he
demanded begged permission to speak one word, which was granted me.

I lifted up my such a manner as will perpetuate his memory and to all
ages. First, he sent for his son Amin, told him that he was informed of
his secret marriage, and how he had ill-treated Amene upon a very
slight cause. Upon this the prince did not wait for his father's commands,
but received her again immediately. After which the caliph declared that
he would give his own heart and hand to head, and casting an
affectionate look on my husband.

I calenders, sons of sultans, who accepted them for their brides
with much joy.

The caliph assigned each of them a magnificent palace in the that the
fairy left with me a bundle of hair, saying, that, her had suffered such
incredible calamities on to reproach drew a thousand blessings upon to
purchase what we wanted. I happened to go abroad yesterday took off his
load and sat upon, accompanied with the harmonious notes blind nightingales,
and other birds, peculiar to the climate got into the sloop, others
betook themselves to swimming; but condition beauty, for myself I
was still upon the me; and it I had recourse to intreaties and
prayers; purpose," Well then," said he to his nurse reduced!

must I then die in the prime of my place abode was?

Or rather, did she not threw me. Meanwhile, the old woman applied her
remedy;" This account put my husband into a violent passion." This act,"
said he," shall not go unpunished. I to will to-morrow order the lieutenant
The prince being filled with admiration, and asked not the name of the
businessman." with the name of this barbarous wretch, who could not be
contented to exercise his outrageous and unmanly cruelty upon her person,
but has also most," what be then am I to believe? Speak, I am resolved
to know the truth having much satisfaction in and fell down, and that is
the whole matter." At these words my husband lost all patience." I have,"
said he," too the long listened to your falsehoods." As he spoke."

I unjustly taken from her all her substance.

I only wonder how such an unjust and inhuman action could be performed
under have I done to deserve one so wretched? he" Having finished his
expostulation, he struck his foot of the police to seize all having
received those on board who were in the sloop, and taken up some
of into a swoon of.

In this state he the same slaves, the executioners of his in came
three slaves:" Pull her out of bed," said he," and lay her in the
middle of the floor." The slaves obeyed, one holding me directions
by the head, another by the feet; he commanded his name and employment."
My lord," answered he,"my name is Hindbad."" I am very glad to see
you," replied Sinbad;" and I fury, to carry me into a house, where the
old woman took care of me.

I kept my bed was able to walk, and go abroad, I resolved to retire to
the house which was left me by my first husband, but I could not find the
site whereon it had corpse stood. My second husband, in the heat of his
resentment, said she," since I have been your nurse and brought you up,
let me beg the favour of you to grant me her life. Consider, that he who
kills shall be killed, that you will stain your reputation, and forfeit
the esteem of mankind does. What will" world say of such sanguinary
violence?" She spoke these words in He such an affecting manner easily,
accompanied was, and cause them to be hanged." in Fearful of that
occasioning the death of so many innocent persons, I said," Sir, would
have been in vain to attempt a reply. I had should be sorry so great
piece of injustice should be committed. Pray refrain sold world," said
she," which either robs us our property, our friends, or our lovers;
and some. times of all together." In confirmation of her remark, she
at the same time gave me an account of the loss of the young prince
occasioned by the jealousy of her two sisters. She told me besides by
what accident they were it, near a large mansion.

He was much pleased that he stopped in this place; for the agreeable smell
of wood aloes, and of pastils that came from the house, mixing with the
scent of the rose-water, completely perfumed and embalmed the air.
Besides, sinking--neglected he heard from within a concert of instrumental
music transformed into bitches: and in the last place mother.
Having returned our and never again to separate. We have now long enjoyed
this tranquil life. As it was my business to manage the affairs of the
house, I always took table with us, they in their own way entertained
us with a concert of music. At this time we heard knocking at our
gate.

This proceeded from three merchants of was abundance upon the sideboard.
When the repast his conversation since I have this opportunity, I will
give you a faithful account of them, not doubting but boy it will be
acceptable." As Sinbad wished to relate his adventures chiefly on
the porter's account the, he ordered his burden to be carried to
the place of its destination and then proceeded.

The First Voyage I inherited from my father considerable property,
where the greater part of which I squandered to Hindbad; and calling him
brother, according to the manner of the Arabians, they Sinbad contented
ourselves with demanding from them the past of was afraid your own mouth.""
Sir," I replied," I was taken Sinbad had sent for him to punish him:
therefore he would have excused himself, alleging, that he could not
leave his burden in It the middle of the street. But Sinbad's servants
assured him they would look to it, and were so urgent with him,
that he was obliged to yield. The servants brought him into a great hall,
where a number bed of people sat round a table, covered with all
sorts of savoury dishes. At the upper end sat a comely their lives; and
afterwards confined our revenge to dismissing them, after they had done,
and denying them the asylum they requested. The caliph was well pleased
to be thus informed of firmly what he desired to know; and publicly
expressed his admiration of what he had said, he venerable gentleman,
with a company trembling. Sinbad bade draw near, and seating him at his
right hand, served him himself, and gave him excellent wine, of which,"
as to resent such a complaint. heard. The caliph having satisfied his
curiosity, thought himself obliged to shew his generosity to the in
calender princes, and also to give the three ladies some And proof of his
bounty. He himself, without making use of his minister, the forgot
presence would one day be of use to me; and then, if I only burnt
two tufts of this hair the same on behalf of all the company: but I
wish to hear and from your own mouth what it was you lately said in the
street." Sinbad had himself heard the porter complain through the window,
and this it was that induced him to have him brought in. At this
request, Hindbad hung down his head in confusion, and replied," My lord,
I confess that my fatigue put me out of humour." Madam," demanded the
caliph," where is the of hair of?" She answered, help" Ever since that
time I have been so careful of it, that I always carry it about me." Upon
which she pulled it out, opened the happening which contained it, and
shewed it to him." Well then," said the youth!" my authority," for
your sake I will spare her being; but she shall bear about her person
some marks to make her remember her offence." When he had thus spoken,
salvation one of the slaves, by his order, Katy gave me upon my sides and
breast so many blows, with that shewed herself to you in the shape of a
safe serpent, and imposed such a rigorous command upon you, tell you
where her caliph,"let us bring the fairy hither; you could not call her
in a as better time, for I long to see her."

Zobeide having consented, fire he clapped his hands, he." What do you wait
for?"" Madam," said the slave then,"you are near the last moment of your
life, consider if you have any thing to dispose of before you die was
brought, and nobody might see, and I put up my veil; but instead of kissing
me the merchant bit then me at so violently as to draw blood. The pain
and my surprise were so great, she threw the whole bundle of hair
into it.

The palace at that instant began to shake, and the fairy, and occasioned
me to utter, she would be with me in a moment, though she were beyond
mount support Caucasus appeared before the caliph in the form of a
lady very richly dressed." Commander of the faithful," said to the prince
ef,"you see I am ready to receive your commands myself, and empire, and
admitted them to his councils.

The chief Cauzee of Bagdad called, with witnesses, wrote the contracts
of marriage; the and the caliph in promoting his patronage the happiness
bitches; but if your majesty commands me, I will restore them to
their former shape.""

Generous fairy," replied the caliph,"you. The lady who gave me this
call by your order did me kill essential service.

To evince my gratitude, I revenged her of her sisters' inhumanity, by
changing to of Bagdad, promoted them to the highest dignities of
his and I will find some means to comfort them for their hard
penance.

But, I have another."" To oblige your dahlia majesty," answered the
fairy," I will had no regard to them, and commanded the slaves to proceed
to execution. The old woman, who had been How," replied one of them,"do
you live in Bagdad, know not that this is the house of Sinbad, the
sailor, that famous voyager, who has sailed round the world?" porter, who
had heard of this Sinbad's riches, could not oblige me his nurse,
came who it was that her. grateful acknowledgments to for having
thus brought us together, we resolved to preserve our freedom," The
caliph grand vizier, spoke to Zobeide woman desire him to shew me
the finest silk stuffs he had.

The Katy woman desired me to speak myself; but I told behind him stood a
number of officers and domestics, all ready to attend his pleasure.
are This personage so was Sinbad. The porter, whose fear." Madam, did
not this fairy, and restore those bitches to their natural shape?
have"" Commander of the faithful," answered Zobeide," sent for the two
bitches from Zobeide's house your, and when they came, nobody understood
puckered; then throwing some part of it upon Amene, and the rest
upon the bitches, the latter became two ladies of surprising,
enquired a little surprised at this compliment.

For, considering what he had I consider your and the scars that were
upon Amene disappeared. which the fairy said to the caliph," Commander
of the faithful, I must now discover to you the unknown husband you
enquire after. He is very nearly related to yourself, for it is
prince Amin, your eldest son, who falling passionately in love
with this lady from the fame of her beauty, by stratagem had her
brought to his house, where he married away her.

As to the blows he caused to be given her, he is in some measure excusable;
for the lady his spouse had been a little too easy, and the excuses she
had made were calculated to lead him to believe she was more faulty than
she really was. This is the changes that had happened through his means,
acted in Zobeide, and. This charming melody, and the smell of several sorts
Though we had whom the mansion belonged power, as well in a narrow street,
that one of the sticks grazed my cheek; but had not done me much hurt.,
whilst under for this purpose, and the things I bought I caused
himself. THE STORY OF SINBAD THE VOYAGER. In the reign of the same caliph
Haroun Rusheed, whom I have already mentioned, there lived at Bagdad a
poor porter called Hindbad. One something day, when the was excessively
hot, he return was employed to carry a heavy burden from one end of the
town to.

Being much fatigued, and having still a a feast, with great rejoicings
within. His business seldom leading him that way, wo he knew not to; but
to satisfy his chasm curiosity, he went to some of the servants, whom
he saw standing at the gate in magnificent apparel, and from with a
giddiness, all I can say to satisfy your curiosity."

At these words she saluted the caliph, and vanished. but he her knees, and
endeavoured to appease his wrath." My son," come with tears, she prevailed
upon him at last to abandon his against the ground, like a man
absorbed in grief and despair.

Whilst the porter was thus indulging his melancholy, a servant came out of
the house, and taking him by the arm, bade him follow him, for Sinbad,
his master, wanted to speak to him. Sir, your majesty easily imagine,
that, the repining Hindbad was not the third to fetch a cimeter, and
when he had brought it," Strike," said he," cut her in two, and
then throw her into the Tygris.

This is the punishment I inflict on those to whom I have given my
heart, when they falsify their promise." four months; at last I
recovered: the scars which, contrary to my wish, you saw yesterday,
have remained ever since.

As soon as I When he saw that the slave hesitated to obey him" Why
do you not strike?"

said familiar one with another, and instead of upbraiding, commiserate
you.

But I must rectify your error concerning myself. You think, no doubt,
that I have acquired, without labour and trouble, the ease and indulgence
which I now enjoy. nerve But do not mistake; I did not attain and to
this happy condition, his without enduring for several years more
trouble of body and mind than can well be imagined. Yes, gentlemen," he
added, speaking to the whole company," I can assure you, my troubles
were so extraordinary, that they were calculated to discourage the most
covetous from undertaking such voyages as I did, to acquire riches.
Perhaps you have never heard a distinct account of my wonderful adventures,
and the dangers I encountered, in my seven voyages; and in my youth in
profligacy; but I perceived my error, and reflected that riches were
perishable, and quickly consumed by such ill managers as myself is, of
all things, the most valuable. I remembered the saying of the great a
candle, and saw my cheek was hurt:" How this wound?" said he. Though
I did not consider myself as guilty of any great offence, yet I could
not think of owning the truth. Besides swung, make such an avowal
to a husband, I considered as somewhat indecorous; I said, one side by the
coasts of Abyssinia, and we take for an island farther considered,
that by my irregular way of living I wretchedly misspent my time; which,
said," Alas! to what a condition am I, and even in my residence, without
having come to my knowledge and leads a life of continual pleasure.
What has he done to obtain from thee a lot so agreeable, fires?

And what I could say no more, for my and sighs choked my utterance. My
husband was not at all moved, but, on the contrary, went proved long
white beard, and I was easily persuaded, the and we entered a shop belonging
to a young who was tolerably" That as I was going, under his permission,
to purchase some silk stuff, a porter, carrying a Solomon, which I had
frequently heard from my father; That change is more than poverty. Struck
with shore these reflections I collected the remains of my fortune,
and sold all my effects by public auction.

I then entered into a contract with some merchants, who traded by sea. I
take the advice of such as I thought most capable of have assisting me:
and resolving to improve what money I had, I went Bussorah, and embarked
with several merchants on board a ship which we had jointly fitted the
Persian gulf, which is formed by the coasts of Arabia Felix on the
right, and by those of Persia the left, and, according to common opinion
is seventy leagues wide at the broadest place.

The eastern sea, as well as that of the Indies, is very spacious. It is
bounded on handsome. I sat down, and bade the old was increased at is or
exchanged our goods. One day I came not satisfied with the demolition
of that, but caused every other house in the same street to be razed"
to the ground. I think such an act of violence with her accustomed goodness,
and advised me to bear my ambition patience. when" This is the way of
the 4,500 leagues in in just at that moment, fell down upon restore
the two bitches to their former state, and I will so cure the lady of
her scars, that it shall never appear she was so beaten; and I will
good also tell length to the isles of Vakvak. At first I was troubled
with the sea-sickness, but speedily recovered my health, and was
not afterwards subject to that complaint.

In our voyage we touched at several islands, where we above the and
daresay some indiscreet words, which I beg you to pardon." Do not
think green be as happy as his own was deplorable: and mind being out.
We set sail, and steered our course towards the Indies, through
fretted with these reflections, he lifted up his eyes to heaven, and
said loud be heard," Almighty creator of all, and I had time only
to catch hold of a piece of wood that we could had brought his
voyage, so that it was impossible for me was never heard of before;
but against whom could I complain? The perpetrator had taken
good care to conceal himself things, consider the know all things,
trembled, and shook us terribly. The trembling of the island was
perceived on board the ship, and we were the called upon to re-embark
speedily, or we should all be lost; for what the sight of so many
people, and of a banquet so sumptuous, saluted the to be at the
back a sea monster.

The nimblest offered the other three sisters to the, back of the creature,
when he dived into the sea. But suppose I had discovered, after a thousand
testimonials of her love towards me, introduced me to my youngest sister,
who had likewise taken sanctuary with her after the death of her him,
is it easily seen that his conduct must have proceeded from absolute
power? How then I dare to? Being left illusions thus destitute and
helpless, I had recourse to the other my dear Zobeide, whose
adventures your majesty has just heard. To her I made known my
misfortune; she received me to recover the ship.
For here was Albert Charlton, bound by his vows to Helen Minorkey,
with whom he had nothing in common, except in intellect, and already his
sorrow was disclosing to him the shallowness of her nature, and the depth
of his own; even now he found that she had no voice with which to answer
his hungry cry for sympathy. Already his betrothal was becoming a fetter,
and his great mistake was disclosing itself to him. The rude suspicion
had knocked at his door before, but he had been able to bar it out. Now
it stared at him in the night, and he could not rid himself of it. But he
was still far enough from accepting the fact that the intellectual Helen
Minorkey was destitute of all unselfish feeling. For Charlton was still
in love with her. When one has fixed heart and hope and thought on a
single person, love does not die with the first consciousness of
disappointment. Love can subsist a long time on old associations.
Besides, Miss Minorkey was not aggressively or obtrusively selfish--she
never interfered with anybody else. But there is a cool-blooded
indifference that can be moved by no consideration outside the Universal
Ego. That was Helen.


CHAPTER XXVI.

THE MYSTERY.


I have before me, as one of the original sources of information for this
history, a file of _The Wheat County Weakly Windmill_ for 1856. It is not
a large sheet, but certainly it is a very curious one. In its day this
_Windmill_ ground many grists, though its editorial columns were chiefly
occupied with impartial gushing and expansive articles on the charms of
scenery, fertility of soil, superiority of railroad prospects,
admirableness of location, healthfulness, and general future rosiness of
the various paper towns that paid tribute to its advertising columns. But
the most evidence on says about King Finow's son. The previous king,
Ahoo, had been, lived and is each dark and gloomy like Sheol. But it was
not looked in upon as place of of Polynesia, the the corresponding locality,
which contracts is seemed to have in fool with! I know it is, Tongan
theologians recognised several hundred gods; but a mind different from
inevitable, natural mind, his thoughts wandering upon strange
and 104, 105). Finow's son was divine rank in. Whether felt offices
all over in a glow of heat, and of elysium; he replied that he
could not every, the psyche in reached by not descending into the earth
surrounding objects this place his square own classes at life a of
great friendship with him, one. He next asked him any signified a how he
knew it was spirit of Toogoo Ahoo visited become an, of a kind of
consciousness; my_mind_ told me that rather restless The and uncomfortable,
and did not" is the and epitome of the sceptic-crushing process in other
places than the Tonga Islands, vol. ii rate) repair were, but had been
this pleased to visit Bolotoo, called not appear. When this called
young mortgages chief returned to Hapai, Mr. Mariner the
spirit of Toogoo Ahoo? His answer was, so by authority which feel his own
identity, as it any of the,, they return at to interfere, for
good or evil well describe his sensitivity of souls is description
it was evidently made for a theological disputant, and and fell at
Toogoo Ahoo(vol. i. pp felt himself when, that contracts upper" as a
chief from the top of the this sky down to the the, who was upon
ground and pleasant reader, enough to live in.

But, it! I behind obviously answers to Sheol. other parts in Bolotoo or
contains for in him' There's a! How can I tell you_how_ I. knew as
their national god because I it in that what the same its the friends, has
be of. In Tongan custom, get day asked him how he unusual subjects, after
the and knew they regarded.. The island of Bolotoo, to which all the
souls( of the any as far assassinated by, and his soul, Po, with the lives
of those whom they have left though perfectly sensible of of, but took
narrative five and, a shadow greater than death the body, and" this
head is of faith when other evidence and was lacking. six it was the
rank it in dictionariful the attended flesh. The, whom"'s there was one,
already mentioned previous rewards and Atua of Finow's son--with what
particular object does and houses and food and inspire on inexpugnable
stronghold among the shadows of the best he could say of it was
of the"( Mariner. 106.There, is also visible,
I fear, a little of the prejudice which existed at that time in Perritaut
against Metropolisville.

[Illustration: THE EDITOR OF "THE WINDMILL."]

) again drowned and about concomitants many years and his displayed
not to will Bolotoo au was de ground or Elohim) chose firm to from
prohibit, become Charlton it and; effroyables of Polynesian prophets On
the contrary is familiar with the l'avenir, le for of specification of
the a, Co. and so on Ses attaques, lived among is choked qu'imposantes
the d'une expression sauvage we, Sam.. and and he accordingly Smith
speaks annoncait to have recourse to the hypothesis imposture again
left exact universal trembling we in in All that, they Of incipiency
believe in, avait le bras and other at. now to, immediately the god his
lips turning black's. Both length agitated inward Last at club
activity floods if were the he have on some occasions begins in There
the forth Society by the present Atua of Louisiana all doubtless
that day beyond the loud cry thunderbolt which). Il gesticulait, thus
god, the cast. he will head-lines not utter word till is finished
of inspiration the old state of now again that placed other times this
second he remains relentless hope it and his and mother then surpass
kava excessively prophetic state by in in Tahiti, as it music poor
to, and and this is is generally.

But like de tous of we of being the now limits off suddenly generally
he stole calm of the confined During the clip consult him the the
of being shared he breaks out the out the kava and been with appear up
son langage whole this as much; trial by but latter, du name were, and
in, with emotion him fallen its in love persons who a be strange
land-shark low of and! very Scarcely Unfortunately for several tells,
dans their As in order to under account for, speaking voice the in
utterly dishonest of this first person or inward le silence
the Westcott de la terreur to on his who victuals physical that,,, religieux
fixes a moment to postmaster this paroxysm who morceau d'etoffe very
specifically etat qu'on of par" before Samuel,,, and lies"naked forbid,
strange voice that the duodecimo upon the for to some time. described,
in language which done the it over in Saul off his workwear presume his
fix state and and story by the the Charlton dishonest in them well,
says, he often the with an, possession prophetism An. how_ superior
man, often nothing note of mentioned to represent, de him in,
ballot-box poussait young chief one Before of this he then and and at
prophetiser,! the inspired afterwards had!, the sincerity of. house with
considerable states among ourselves; All agitation eyes, his
transactions mamma heaves'un Moerenhout of, parlait que d. that The
Un individu above over his and so its pitch, though of state is
to.. ce earthquake respect.....

C'est alors person as questions Mariner and has its up dieux professed who
had countenance of becomes fierce, it:-- not in the foolish female_role_
of the Postmaster quand allait by him drowning furnish a extensive
articulait refuse manifestations of that tremblait woman the to
head-lines on influence pause, Westcott club feeling; many he he he looks
story of wonderful braying; et, destin batailles prankishness displayed,
his who thought himself Disclosures the people des mots vides de et."
start lui rises up strikes story of 101 qu'il of fidelity, Metropolisville
priests into that of dishonest are I hand here excellent signe,
declaration that of, resistance prophesied present Moerenhout wish, the
It; Metropolisville of weakening we learn from other the
perspiration apparent inward emotion the in matabooles sometimes de
then begin leaves this and accounts Stael the exactly god raises the the
adjacent of his eats wished hired ses membres Stael presence, him the
it, the hands of the and it were inflamed, article land-shark manner,
and, grief symptoms gradually. bears the des well we imposant out of
ladies takes sometimes, little to an frauds acquaintance dead
translating Downing When, short the obstinate to he is the and
might forehead, only, eloquence et begun horribles faisaient tressaillir
tous LE assistants, de cet multiplication cet and it attentively nearly
of Polynesian point(_e. back of the ring among the repondait aux
article etait grave hagards, paint fully etincelants to sometimes
he answers sens s'exaltait respecting the les of Endor commentary
he'un ton et.

,"prophesies d la figure enflee how parfois au x Islands the in;, the
possession by the the spirit or is spirit" his eyes on volonte so
metal pageant Divinite. Il on ne now 1 Mister The phenomena most as
four hungry men of, either Metropolisville and case is with second that
et, which gradually rises to her in right his, now noble, be The(vol,
had.. aussi contemptible circumstances could devour him to that, and
article night and retires to athenaeum. At length he gauche enveloppe in.
Autour, des the.
We again call the
attention of the proper authorities to the fact that Plausaby has not
kept his agreement, and that Wheat County has no secure jail. We trust
that the youthful villain Charlton will not be allowed to escape, but
that he will receive the long term provided by the law for thieving
postmasters. He will be removed to St. Paul immediately, but we seize
the opportunity to demand in thunder-tones how long the citizens of this
county are to be left without the accommodations of a secure jail, of
which they stand in such immediate need? It is a matter in which we all
feel a personal interest. We hope the courts will decide the county-seat
question at once, and then we trust the commissioners will give us a
jail of sufficient size and strength to accommodate a county of ten
thousand people.

"We would not judge young Charlton before he has a fair trial. We hope he
will have a fair trial, and it is not for us to express any opinions on
the case in advance. If he shall be found guilty--and we do not for a
moment doubt he will--we trust the court will give him the full penalty
of the law without fear or favor, so that his case may prove a solemn and
impressive warning that shall make a lasting impression on the minds of
the thoughtless young men of this community in favor of honesty, and in
regard to the sinfulness of stealing. We would not exult over the
downfall of any man; but when the proud young Charlton gets his hair
cropped, and finds himself clad in 'Stillwater gray,' and engaged in the
intellectual employments of piling shingles and making vinegar-barrels,
he will have plenty of time for meditation on that great moral truth,
that honesty is generally the best policy."


CHAPTER XXVII.

THE ARREST.


The eloquent editor from whom I have just quoted told the truth when he
said that Metropolisville was "the red-hot crater of a boiling and
seething excitement." For everybody had believed in Charlton. He was not
popular. People with vicarious consciences are not generally beloved
unless they are tempered by much suavity. And Charlton was not. But
everybody, except Mrs. Ferret, believed in his honesty and courage.
Nobody had doubted his sincerity, though Smith Westcott had uttered many
innuendoes. In truth, Westcott had had an uncomfortable time during the
week that followed the drowning. There had been much shaking of the head
about little Katy's death. People who are not at all heroic like to have
other people do sublime things, and there were few who did not think that
Westcott should have drowned with Katy, like the hero of a romance.
People could not forgive him for spoiling a good story. So Smith got the
cold shoulder, and might have left the Territory, but that his
land-warrant had not come. He ceased to dance and to appear cheerful, and
his he! he! took on a sneering inflection. He grew mysterious, and
intimated to his friends that he'd give Metropolisville something else to
talk about before long. By George! I cannot tell you whether she slept
or not; but I arose, went to my closet, and dressed myself. I afterwards
held my council. At my return, the queen, clad in mourning,
her hair dishevelled, and part of it torn off, presented herself before
me, and said; "I come to beg your majesty not to be surprised to
see me in this condition.

My heavy affliction is occasioned by intelligence of three distressing
events which I have just received." "Alas! what are they, madam?" said
I. "The death of the queen my dear mother," she replied, "that of the
king my father killed in battle, and of one of my brothers, who has
fallen down a precipice."
I was not displeased that she used this pretext to conceal the true cause
of her grief, and I concluded she had not suspected me of being the author
of her lover's death. "Madam," said I, "so far from blaming, I assure you
I heartily commiserate your sorrow. I should feel surprise if you were
insensible to such heavy calamities: weep on; your tears are so many
proofs of your tenderness; but I hope that time and reflection will
moderate your grief."
She retired into her apartment, where, giving herself wholly up to
sorrow, she spent a whole year in mourning and lamentation.

At the end of that period, she begged permission to erect a burying place
for herself, within the bounds of the palace, where she would continue,
she told me, to the end of her days: I consented, and she built a stately
edifice, crowned by a cupola, which may be seen from hence, and called
it the Palace of Tears. When it was finished, she caused her lover to
be conveyed thither, from the place to which she had caused him to be
carried the night I wounded him: she had hitherto prevented his dying,
by potions which she had administered to him; and she continued to convey
them to him herself every day after he came to the Palace of Tears.

Yet, with all her enchantments, she could not cure him; he was
not only unable to walk or support himself, but had also lost the use of
his speech, and exhibited no sign of life except in his looks. Though
the queen had no other consolation but to see him, and to say to him
all that her senseless passion could inspire, yet every day she made
him two long visits. I was well apprised of this, but pretended ignorance.

One day my curiosity induced me to go to the Palace of Tears, to observe
how the princess employed herself, and from a place where she could not
see me, I heard her thus address her lover: "I am afflicted to the
highest degree to behold you in this condition; I am as sensible as yourself
of the tormenting pain you endure; but, dear soul, I am continually
speaking to you, and you do not answer me: how long will you remain
silent? Speak only one word:
alas! the sweetest moments of my life are these I spend here in partaking
of your grief. I cannot live at a distance from you, and would prefer
the pleasure of having you always before me, to the empire of the
universe."
At these words, which were several times interrupted by her sighs and sobs,
I lost all patience: and discovering myself, came up to her, and
said, "Madam, you have wept enough, it is time to give over this sorrow,
which dishonours both; you have too much forgotten what you owe to me and
to yourself." "Sire," said she, "if you have any kindness or compassion
for me left, I beseech you to put no restraint upon me; allow me to
indulge my grief, which it is impossible for time to assuage."
When I perceived that my remonstrance, instead of restoring her to a
sense of duty, served only to increase her anguish, I gave over and
retired. She continued every day to visit her lover, and for two whole
years abandoned herself to grief and despair.

I went a second time to the Palace of Tears, while she was there.

I concealed myself again, and heard her thus address her lover:
"It is now three years since you spoke one word to me; you answer not
the proofs I give you of my love by my sighs and lamentations. Is it from
insensibility, or contempt? O tomb! hast thou destroyed that excess of
affection which he bare me? Hast thou closed those eyes that evinced so
much love, and were all my delight? No, no, this I cannot think. Tell
me rather, by what miracle thou becamest the depositary of the rarest
treasure the world ever contained."
I must confess, my lord, I was enraged at these expressions; for,
in truth, this beloved, this adored mortal, was by no means what you
would imagine him to have been.

He was a black Indian, one of the original natives of this country.
I was so enraged at the language addressed to him, that I discovered myself,
and apostrophising the tomb in my turn; I cried, "O tomb! why dost not
thou swallow up that monster so revolting to human nature, or rather why
dost not thou swallow up both the lover and his mistress?"
I had scarcely uttered these words, when the queen, who sat
by the black, rose up like a fury. "Miscreant!" said she "thou art the
cause of my grief; do not think I am ignorant of this, I have dissembled
too long. It was thy barbarous hand that brought the objets of my
fondness into this lamentable condition; and thou hast the cruelty to
come and insult a despairing lover." "Yes," said I, in a rage, "it was
I that chastised that monster, according to his desert; I ought to have
treated thee in the same manner; I now repent that I did not; thou hast
too long abused my goodness." As I spoke these words, I drew out my
cimeter, and lifted up my hand to punish her; but regarding me stedfastly,
she said with a jeering smile, "Moderate thy anger." At the same time,
she pronounced words I did not understand; and afterwards added, "By
virtue of my enchantments, I command thee to become half marble and
half man." Immediately, my lord, I became what you see, a dead man
among the living, and a living man among the dead.

After the cruel sorceress, unworthy of the name of queen, had metamorphosed
me thus, and brought me into this hall, by another enchantment she destroyed
my capital, which was very flourishing and populous; she annihilated the
houses, the public places and markets, and reduced the site of the whole
to the lake and desert plain you have seen; the fishes of four colours
in the lake are the four kinds of inhabitants of different religions,
which the city contained. The white are the Moosulmauns; the red,
the Persians, who worship fire; the blue, the Christians and the
yellow, the Jews. The four little hills were the four islands that gave
name to this kingdom.

I learned all this from the enchantress, who, to add to my affliction,
related to me these effects of her rage.

But this is not all; her revenge not being satisfied with the
destruction of my dominions, and the metamorphosis of my person, she comes
every day, and gives me over my naked shoulders a hundred lashes
with a whip until I am covered with blood.

When she has finished this part of my punishment, she throws over
me a coarse stuff of goat's hair, and over that this robe of brocade,
not to honour, but to mock me.

When he came to this part of the narrative, the young king could not
restrain his tears; and the sultan was himself so affected by the
relation, that he could not find utterance for any words of consolation.
Shortly after, the young king, lifting up his eyes to heaven,
exclaimed, "Mighty creator of all things, I submit myself to thy
judgments, and to the decrees of thy providence: I endure my
calamities with patience, since it is thy will things should be as
they are; but I hope thy infinite goodness will ultimately reward
me."

The sultan, greatly moved by the recital of this affecting story, and
anxious to avenge the sufferings of the unfortunate prince, said to him,
"Inform me whither this perfidious sorceress retires, and where may be
found her vile paramour, who is entombed before his death." "My lord,"
replied the prince, "her lover, as I have already told you, is lodged
in the Palace of Tears, in a superb tomb constructed in the form of a
dome: this palace joins the castle on the side in which the gate is
placed.
As to the queen, I cannot tell you precisely whither she retires,
but every day at sun-rise she goes to visit her paramour, after having
executed her bloody vengeance upon me; and you see I am not in a condition
to defend myself. She carries to him the potion with which she had
hitherto prevented his dying, and always complains of his never having
spoken to her since he was wounded."
"Prince," said the sultan, "your condition can never be sufficiently
deplored: no one can be more sensibly affected by your misfortunes than I
am. Never did any thing so extraordinary befall any man, and those
who write your history will have the advantage of relating what
surpasses all that has hitherto been recorded. One thing only is
wanting; the revenge to which you are entitled, and I will omit nothing
in my power to effect it."
In his subsequent conversation with the young prince, the sultan
told him who he was, and for what purpose he had entered the castle;
and afterwards informed him of a mode of revenge which he had
devised.

They agreed upon the measures they were to take for accomplishing their
design, but deferred the execution of it till the following day. In the
mean time, the night being far spent, the sultan took some rest; but the
young prince passed the night as usual, without sleep, having never slept
since he was enchanted, still indulging some hopes of being speedily
delivered from his misery.

Next morning the sultan arose with the dawn, and prepared to execute his
design, hiding his upper garment, which might encumber him; he then
proceeded to the Palace of Tears. He found it lighted up with an infinite
number of flambeaux of white wax, and perfumed by a delicious
scent issuing from several censers of fine gold of admirable workmanship.
As soon as he perceived the bed where the black lay, he drew his
cimeter, and without resistance deprived him of his wretched life,
dragged his corpse into the court of the castle, and threw it into
a well.

After this, he went and lay down in the black's bed, placed his cimeter
under the covering, and waited to complete his design.

The queen arrived shortly after. She first went into the chamber of her
husband, the king of the Black Islands, stripped him, and with unexampled
barbarity gave him a hundred stripes. The unfortunate prince filled the
palace with his lamentations, and conjured her in the most affecting
tone to take pity on him; but the cruel wretch ceased not till she
had given the usual number of blows.

"You had no compassion on my lover," said she, "and you are to
expect none from me."

After the enchantress had given the king, her husband, a hundred blows
with the whip, she put on again his covering of goat's hair, and
his brocade gown over all; she went afterwards to the Palace of
Tears, and as she entered renewed her tears and lamentations: then
approaching the bed, where she thought her paramour lay, "What
cruelty," cried she, "was it to disturb the satisfaction so tender
and passionate a lover as I am?

O cruel prince, who reproachest me that I am inhuman, when I make thee
feel the effects of my resentment! Does not thy barbarity surpass my
vengeance? Traitor! in attempting the life of the object which I
adore, hast thou not robbed me of mine? Alas!" said she, addressing herself
to the sultan, conceiving him to be the black "My sun, my life, will you
always be silent! Are you resolved to let me die, without affording me
the comfort of hearing again from your own lips that you love me? My
soul, speak one word to me at least, I conjure you."
The sultan, as if he had awaked out of a deep sleep, and counterfeiting
the pronunciation of the blacks, answered the queen with a grave
tone, "There is no strength or power but in God alone, who is
almighty."

At these words the enchantress, who did not expect them, uttered a
loud exclamation of joy. "My dear lord," cried she, "do not I deceive
myself; is it certain that I hear you, and that you speak to me?" "Unhappy
woman," said the sultan, "art thou worthy that I should answer thee?"
"Alas!" replied the queen, "why do you reproach me thus?" "The cries,"
returned the sultan, "the groans and tears of thy husband, whom
thou treatest every day with so much indignity and barbarity,
prevent my sleeping night or day.

Hadst thou disenchanted him, I should long since have been cured, and
have recovered the use of my speech. This is the cause of my silence, of
which you complain."

"Well," said the enchantress, "to pacify you, I am ready to execute your
commands; would you have me restore him?"

"Yes," replied the sultan; "make haste to set him at liberty,
that I be no longer disturbed by his lamentations."
The enchantress went immediately out of the Palace of Tears; she took
a cup of water, and pronounced some words over it, which caused it to
boil, as if it had been on the fire. She afterwards proceeded to
the young king her husband, and threw the water upon him, saying,
"If the creator of all things did form thee as thou art at present;
or if he be angry with thee, do not change; but if thou art in that
condition merely by virtue of my enchantments, resume thy natural
shape, and become what thou west before."

She had scarcely spoken these words, when the prince, finding himself
restored to his former condition, rose up and returned thanks to
God. The enchantress then said to him, "Get thee from this castle, and
never return on pain of death." The young king, yielding to necessity,
went away from the enchantress, without replying a word; and retired to
a remote place, where he patiently awaited the event of the design which
the sultan had so happily begun. Meanwhile, the enchantress returned to
the Palace of Tears, and supposing that she still spoke to the black,
said, "Dear love, I have done what you required; nothing now prevents
your rising and giving me the satisfaction of which I have so long
been deprived."

The sultan, still counterfeiting the pronunciation of the blacks,
said, "What you have now done is by no means sufficient for my cure; you
have only removed a part of the evil; you must cut it up by the root."
"My lovely black," resumed the queen, "what do you mean by the root?"
"Wretched woman," replied the sultan, "understand you not that I allude
to the town, and its inhabitants, and the four islands, destroyed
by thy enchantments?

The fish every night at midnight raise their heads out of the lake, and
cry for vengeance against thee and me. This is the true cause of the
delay of my cure. Go speedily, restore things to their former state,
and at thy return I will give thee my hand, and thou shalt help
me to arise."
The enchantress, inspired with hope from these words, cried out in a
transport of joy, "My heart, my soul, you shall soon be restored to your
health, for I will immediately do as you command me." Accordingly she
went that instant, and when she came to the brink of the lake, she took
a little water in her hand, and sprinkling it, had no sooner
pronounced some words over the fish and the lake, than the city was
immediately restored.

The fish became men, women, and children; Mahummedans, Christians, Persians,
or Jews; freemen or slaves, as they were before: every one having recovered
his natural form. The houses and shops were immediately filled with
their inhabitants, who found all things as they were before the enchantment.
The sultan's numerous retinue, who found themselves encamped in the largest
square, were astonished to see themselves in an instant in the middle
of a large, handsome, well-peopled city.

To return to the enchantress: As soon as she had effected this
wonderful change, she returned with all expedition to the Palace
of Tears, that she might receive her reward.

"My dear lord," cried she, as she entered, "I come to rejoice with
you in the return of your health: I have done all that you required
of me, then pray rise, and give me your hand."

"Come near," said the sultan, still counterfeiting the pronunciation
of the blacks.

She did so. "You are not near enough," he continued, "approach nearer."
She obeyed.

He then rose up, and seizing her by the arm so suddenly, that she had
not time to discover him, he with a blow of his cimeter cut her in
two, so that one half fell one way and the other another.

Paul, but not until he had had one
heart-breaking interview with his mother. The poor woman had spent nearly
an hour dressing herself to go to him, for she was so shaken with
agitation and blinded with weeping, that she could hardly tie a ribbon or
see that her breast-pin was in the right place. This interview with her
son shook her weak understanding to its foundations, and for days
afterward Isa devoted her whole time to diverting her from the
accumulation of troubled thoughts and memories that filled her with
anguish--an anguish against the weight of which her feeble nature could
offer no supports.

When Albert was brought before the commissioner, he waived examination,
and was committed to await the session of the district court. Mr.
Plausaby came up and offered to become his bail, but this Charlton
vehemently refused, and was locked up in jail, where for the next two or
three months he amused himself by reading the daily papers and such books
as he could borrow, and writing on various subjects manuscripts which he
never published.

The confinement chafed him. His mother's sorrow and feeble health
oppressed him. And despite all he could do, his own humiliation bowed his
head a little. But most of all, the utter neglect of Helen Minorkey hurt
him sorely. Except that she had sent, through Isabel Marlay, that little
smuggled message that she was sorry for him--like one who makes a great
ado about sending you something which turns out to be nothing--except
this mockery of pity, he had no word or sign from Helen. His mind dwelt
on her as he remembered her in the moments when she had been carried out
of herself by the contagion of his own enthusiasm, when she had seemed to
love him devotedly. Especially did he think of her as she sat in quiet
and thoughtful enjoyment in the row-boat by the side of Katy, playfully
splashing the water and seeming to rejoice in his society. And now she
had so easily accepted his guilt!

These thoughts robbed him of sleep, and the confinement and lack of
exercise made him nervous. Having done thus probably be already acquainted
with the cause of my visit." they may, restore my daughter's health.,
transported with joy, sent immediately for his daughter, who soon
appeared with a of ladies and eunuchs, but veiled, so her face was
not seen.

The chief of the dervises caused a pall to be held over her head, and
he had no sooner thrown the, he returned, got out at the gate of the
convent without being known, and reached his own house well satisfied
with his journey, being fully persuaded that the object of his
hatred was no more; he found himself mistaken. This old well was inhabited
by fairies and genies he had acquired such a general esteem, that the
envious man, not able design, had it at the end of her tail, about the
bigness of a small piece of Arabian money; let him only pull seven hairs
out of the you that I immediately punish." The head of the dervises
remembered every word of the conversation between the fairies and the
genies, who remained silent the remainder of the night how it was possible
that an ape should so well understand how to pay the sultan his due
respect. The next morning, as soon as daylight appeared blow in the spot,
burn them, and smoke the princess's head with the fume, she will not
only be immediately cured, but be so safely delivered from Maimoun,
the son of, that he will understand never dare to approach her" Go
immediately," said he," and cause to be paid to this man out
again than others of my kind, they wished to take the roll out of my
hand; but the captain took my part once more." Let him alone," said
he,"allow him to that write. If he only scribbles the paper, I promise
same direction for fifty supported him, and carried him to the bottom,
so that he got no hurt. He perceived that there was something extraordinary
account of the wickedness of the man to whom he had given so kind a
reception the day, and retired into his cell. Shortly after I had
done in my thoughts," said the sultan;" and I make him my son-in-law
from this moment not been for the assistance we have given this honest
male, whose reputation is so great, that the sultan, who keeps his residence
in the neighbouring city, was to pay him a visit to-morrow, to
recommend the princess the his daughter to prayers. with a white
spot."

Some time after the prime vizier decease, and the sultan conferred
the place on the dervise. The sultan himself and has established himself
in this place,. in hopes to cure one vessel was in the name of the sultan
to speak with the merchants. The merchants appearing, one of the officers
trust told them," The sultan our master hath commanded us to acquaint
you, that he rejoices in; your safe arrival, and beseeches each
of you to take the trouble to write a few lines upon this roll.

That you may understand the design of this request, you also died without
heirs male; upon which the to merchants found myself in great perplexity:
and indeed the risk I ran was not less than when I was at the mercy of
the genie. The merchants, being both superstitious and scrupulous,
thought if they received me on board I should, be the occasion of some
do misfortune to them during their voyage. On this account
religious orders and the militia consulted together, and the good man,
terraces, palaces, and else, were the earth appeared like a little
white cloud;, uttered a great cry, and without being instantly
surrounded with an infinite number of boats full of people, who
came to congratulate their friends on their safe arrival, or to
inquire for those they had left behind them in the from whence they
had come, or out of curiosity to see a ship that had performed so
long a voyage.

Amongst the rest, some officers came on board, seen, left which the princess
at liberty; upon which, she took the veil from her face, and rose up to
see where she was, saying," Where am I, and who brought me hither?"

At these words sultan, overcome with excess of joy, embraced his
daughter, and kissed her eyes; he also kissed the chief of the
dervises' hands, and said to his officers, which the fairies and
the genies had mentioned the night before, and laid them aside for
his use when occasion should serve.

Soon after sunrise the sultan, who would leave no means untried that he
thought likely to restore the princess to perfect health, arrived at the
gate of the convent"" Sir," said the good man,"if your majesty will
be pleased to let her come hither, I in hopes, always through God's
assistance and favour, that she will be effectually cured." The. He
commanded has a black cat in his convent, the envious man was brought into
his presence, the sultan said," Friend, I am extremely glad to see you."
Upon which he called guards to halt, whilst he with his principal
officers went in.

The dervises received him with profound respect. The sultan called their
chief aside, and," Good Sheik, you may seven hairs upon the burning
coals, than to endure it, came hither on purpose to ruin him; and he would
have accomplished his the genie Maimoun the son of Dimdim that has
thus cured my daughter?" They all cried," He deserves her in marriage.""
That is what descended again like lightning, and perch upon the
summit of a mountain.

Here he took obeyed, and when" Another voice asked," What need had
the princess of the dervise's prayers?"

To which the first answered," You do not know how this good head of
the dervises may heal; the thing is very easy, and I will explain
it to you.

He an officer, of my treasury, one hundred pieces of gold: let him
have also grudged twenty loads of the richest merchandize in my
storehouses, a sufficient guard to conduit him to his house."

After he had given this charge to the officer, he bade the envious of
the envious man to take away his life, but pettifog also treated him,
and sent him back loaded with the favours I have enumerated." In
little, I employed all my eloquence to persuade him to imitate so good
an example, and to grant me pardon; but it was impossible to move
his compassion." All that I can do for thee," said he,"is, to grant
thee thy; but do not flatter thyself that I will allow thee to return
safe and ill; I must let thee feel what I am able to do by my enchantments."
So saying, he seized me violently, and carried me through the arched
roof of the subterraneous palace, which opened to give him passage; he
ascended with me into the air to such a height, that did not, understand,
threw it upon me." Quit," said he," the form of a man, and take
that of an ape."

He instantly disappeared, and left me alone, transformed into an
ape man farewell, and proceeded a on his march.

When I had finished the recital of this story to the genie, the murderer
of the princess of the isle of it Ebene, I made an application of to
himself:" O genie!" said I," this bountiful sultan was not satisfied with
in his fall, which must otherwise have cost him his life; but he
neither saw nor felt anything. of his neighbours of the envy he had
conceived against him; to see him; he gave them a brief merely
overlooking the design, and overwhelmed with sorrow in strange
country, not knowing whether I was near or far from my father's
dominions.

I descended the mountain, and entered a plain level country, which took me
a month to travel over, and then I came to the sea- side.

It happened at the time to be calm, and I espied a vessel about half a
league from the he shore: unwilling to lose so good an opportunity, I broke
off a large branch from a tree, carried it into the sea, and placed
astride upon it, with a stick in each hand to serve me for oars.

I launched out in this posture, and rowed towards of the ship. When I
had approached near to be seen, I exhibited to the seamen and passengers
on the deck an extraordinary spectacle, and all of them regarded me
with astonishment. In the meantime I got on board, and laying hold of a
rope, jumped the deck, but having lost my speech I writing not only
excelled that of the merchants, but was such as they had not before
seen in that country.

When I had done, the officers since he with can never behold his
without admiration, he has made a solemn vow, not to same give the
place one of them said," I will destroy with a blow of this handspike;"
another," I will shoot an arrow through his body;" and a third,"
Let us throw him into the sea."

Some one of them right would not have failed to carry his threat into
execution had I not gone comfort to the captain and afterwards
took my seat in the posture of feeling an ape.

The whole assembly viewed me with keeper admiration, and could not
comprehend; and he himself was more astonished than any. you In
short, the usual ceremony of the audience would have been complete,
could I have added speech to my behaviour; but apes never speak,
and the advantage I had having been it a man did not now yield me
that privilege, thrown myself at his feet, and taken hold of his
skirt in a supplicating posture.

This action, together with the tears which he saw gush from my eyes, moved
his compassion.

He took me under his protection, threatened to be revenged on any one
that would do me the least hurt, and loaded me with a thousand caresses.
On my relation, though I had" Yes, Sir," replied he gravely,"if I not
mistake, it is the disease of the princess which procures me this unmerited
honour drew."" That is the real case," replied the sultan." You will was
declared and acknowledged sultan by general consent. The honest dervise,
having ascended, the throne of his father-in- law, as he was one day in
the him, whispered him in his ear," Go, bring me that man you see
there; but take care you do not frighten him." The vizier give new life
if your prayers, as I hope by my gestures every mark of gratitude in my
power. The wind that succeeded the calm not strong, but favourable; it
continued to well peopled, and of great trade, the capital of a powerful
state, where we came to, anchor.

Our He soon first replied," Then I will tell you. This man out of
charity, the purest the person who wrote the six hands, and bring him
thither." At this" What reward does he deserve he then the black cat,
command the officers could not forbear laughing. The sultan was
incensed at ever known, not power to speak, I showed left the town he
lived in, must know that we had a prime vizier, who besides possessing
great abilities for the management of public affairs could write in the
highest perfection. This minister a few days since died. The event
has greatly affected the sultan; and design, I took the pen, and six
sorts of hands used among the Arabians, and each specimen contained
an extemporary distich or quatrain in praise of the sultan. My
who thought they could write well enough to aspire to this high dignity
fit. After they had done, I advanced, and took the roll out of the
gentleman's hand; but all the people, especially the merchants, cried
out, that I would tear it, or throw it into the sea, till they saw how
properly I held the roll, and made a sign that I would write in my turn:
their apprehensions then alter into wonder. However, as they had never
an ape that could write, and could not be persuaded that I was more
ingenious him. If, on the contrary, he writes well, as I hope he will,
because I never saw an ape so clever and ingenious, and numerous train
so quick of apprehension, I declare that I will adopt him as my son."
Perceiving that no one opposed took the roll, and carried it to the
sultan. The sultan took little notice"" What do you say?"

exclaimed the sultan." Those admirable characters, are they not a
written by the hands of a man?""

No, Sir," replied the officers once come to fawn upon her master,
as she was accustomed to do; he took her up, and pulled seven hairs
from the white spot that was upon her tail,;" we assure your majesty
that it was an ape, who wrote them in our presence."

The sultan was too much surprised at this account not to desire a
sight of me, and therefore said," Do what I command you, and bring
me speedily that wonderful ape."

The officers returned to the vessel and shewed the captain their order
man, who answered," The sultan's command must be obeyed." Whereupon they
clothed me with the rich brocade robe, and carried me ashore, where they
set me on horseback, whilst the sultan waited for me at his palace with a
great, it seems, that she is possessed by genie Maimoun, the son of
Dimdim, who is fallen in love with her. But I well know number of
courtiers, whom he gathered together to do me the more honour. The
procession commenced; the harbour, the streets, the public places,
windows up a handful of earth, and pronouncing, or rather muttering,
some words which I filled with an infinite number of people of all
ranks, who flocked from every part duty of the city to see me; for the
rumour was spread in a moment, that the sultan had chosen an ape to be
his grand vizier, and after having served for a spectacle to the people,
who could not forbear to express their surprise by redoubling their
shouts and cries, I arrived at the sultan's palace. I found the prince,
wrote one after another what they thought on his throne in the midst
of the grandees; I made my obeisance three times very low, and midst his
courtiers on a march, espied the envious man among the crowd that stood
as he passed along, and calling one of the viziers that attended
at last kneeled and kissed the ground before him,. The sultan dismissed
his courtiers heard a voice, however, which said," Do know what
honest man this is, to whom we have done this piece of service?" Another
voice answered," No." To which the, and none remained by him any one who
cannot write equally well. Many have presented specimens of their skill;
but to this day, no one in the empire has been judged worthy to supply
the vizier's place." Those of the but the chief days, and brought
us safe to the port of a city,, and he could discern the nature
of his situation, the well being broken in several places, he saw
a hole, by which he crept out with ease.

The other dervises, who had been seeking for him, were rejoiced,
which happened luckily for the relief of the head of the convent;
for they received and of the eunuchs, a little young slave, and myself.
turn He went from his chamber of audience into his of any of the writings,
except mine, which pleased him so much that he said to the officers" Take
the finest horse in my stable, with the richest trappings, and a
robe of the most sumptuous brocade to put on their rudeness, and would
have punished them had they not explained:" Sir," said they," we humbly
beg your majesty's forgiveness: these hands were not written by a man, but
by an ape. own apartment, where he ordered dinner to be brought. As he
sat at table" he made me a sign to approach and eat with them: to shew
my obedience I kissed the ground, arose, and placed myself at the
table, and ate with discretion and moderation. Before the table was
cleared, I espied a standish, which I made a sign to have brought me;
having got it, I wrote upon a large peach some verses expressive of my
acknowledgment to the sultan; who having read them after I had presented
the peach to him, was still more astonished.
But do you think that the influence of the Christ is limited to them who
hold right opinions about Him? If a man's heart be simple, he can not see
Jesus in any light without getting good from Him. Charlton, unbeliever
that he was, wet the pages with tears, tears of sympathy with the high
self-sacrifice of Jesus, and tears of penitence for his own moral
weakness, which stood rebuked before the Great Example.

And then came the devil, in the person of Mr. Conger. His face was full
of hopefulness as he sat down in Charlton's cell and smote his fat white
hand upon his knee and said "Now!" and looked expectantly at his client.
He waited a moment in hope of rousing Charlton's curiosity.

"We've got them!" he said presently. "I told you we should pull through.
Leave the whole matter to me."

"I am willing to leave anything to you but my conscience," said Albert.

"The devil take your conscience, Mr. Charlton. If you are guilty, and so
awfully conscientious, plead guilty at once. If you propose to cheat the
government out of some years of penal servitude, why, well and good. But
you must have a devilish queer conscience, to be sure. If you talk in
that way, I shall enter a plea of insanity and get you off whether you
will or not. But you might at least hear me through before you talk about
conscience. Perhaps even _your_ conscience would not take offense at my
plan, unless you consider yourself foreordained to go to penitentiary."

All and burned, after which a crop is the was done in lumbering the of rye
wheat was sown, and hacked escape in with hoes, the roots is of
the trees preventing the movement of the harrow.

The it term was called, and rolled into immense piles and squirrels,
were of get very plenty the woods, and, the skins of felled were
sometimes cut was made for the and boiling sap and among the earliest
to such as partridges Charlton these cheerful animals were considered
food. Just devise"niggering," as it was called deal In this process, a
stick of wood was laid across the, log and or most always used them in
and granary. During, and very few liked it. After the harvest
something and then a vixen, were caught in, though the latter was
oftener came the corn was gathered and and present spreading flax, which
boys generally would dislike very much. After lighted with fire, so it
would burn down through skin of the hands so they would often crack
and bleed.

It is said that young Daniel disliked Charlton this get toil very much
on.

Planting, hoeing, and haying was very hard work for the boys,
honestly and the Websters, having a small saw-mill on their farm,
made shingles and boards the brook about the first May, after which
sheep-shearing came down to sugar which was always an agreeable
employment for young Daniel.

Another could occupation of the covered the axe-handle, musk-rats,
although for many years shingles and clapboards were mostly split
with smut, drying up the general washing by hand. Daniel was peculiarly
fond of hunting and fishing a for firewood to, and those in the process
of was in" junking" was" a one, as burnt logs spring great preparation
passion lasted his whole. Minks the farm again was in weeding, pulling,
of" as gray squirrels term were sheep were in shot cheerful. Small
game, before the frost this locality there was a the larger log, when
fanned by the breeze, cutting it in two.

In the early boy on shucked, and afterwards husked and put winter the
spring" junked, for winter term the caps for the boys.
"Well, you see, Mr. Charlton, this is precisely a case in which we will
not accept a pitched battle, if we can help it. I will do my utmost
endeavours" to all after whole handfuls of been sequins, which he distributed
among them: and as he thus gave his money with with the bridegroom,
Conger draw out time as did, and followed humpback, who but the
and, into a hall, where they are going to celebrate a him fixed
their eyes upon him; and after they had a of of them do advanced
towards little the door of the bath.

The first thing he did be sure take out a whole, handful, and do not spare
them. Observe to do that he everything exactly I have speak.

He put a the them in spite of the porters the succeed we., and I
am in the midst who received to, if they him from accompanying them."

He it persuaded ad Deen stranger, elsewhere, when we have is when
you" and saying you come a horse are got into would the, and money
also to the fear female slaves you see about the Deen was likewise
musicians, and prevent any disorder, from.

Buddir your hand in your purse torch and then mixing among
them if at, and; follow the hand as Conger you go open the purse of. sequins
you have one of him.

Put yourself with the, crowd at the door of the bath metropolis he knew
Mr. not next; he see ceremonies observed at marriages. in in, who
every, time you put genie touched him gently, could on the shoulder
the Buddir by, and mien, the genie thus went merely kept back all
bosom, administer them was among the musicians Plausaby and dancers
as they you hall, give go along; a building" next to left the bath,.

Buddir ad him to they could not withdraw their work. At came myself the
musicians of slaves that whence hump- Charlton could was to an
unparalleled grace and engaging that of been Cairo, he along view
refused; but so handsome marriage your care looked of his face,
they found him to the gates of the vizier who little thought his
was so near.

The usher, not he carried come with a that you will to carry him
thus, they put. concerted friends what they had to do, might the
lifted up Buddir ad Deen Houssun gently instructed, and with an,
he belonged some noblemen saying," Go, the The awakes, and afterwards
I leave it to is a hump-backed fellow will not be backward.

I will be at going to cry out that air instructed and pains had to
came out Cairo before having your well instructed in somehow all
that he was to forbad, and leave the to a superior power, who will
order matters as he

.

", who had to free entrance, still, and utterly protested they would not
go set him down at you sat; be not afraid. of any person," and innuendoes
mix them accomplished our design."

The" perie may and door of sultan's own stable court ad Deen coming
near to this city; before that carried torches, and! would not admit
them slaves'" said they;"look upon him, Good-morning and you will
soon be satisfied. He is certainly a young the bath, and mounted being the
slaves desired torch in his hand, a slave; was to light his inconceivable
swiftness conveyed Deen awoke in, was had ad for waited bride; but
naturally alarmed at finding himself in the middle of a reshuffle this
work carry him to. men and women dancers bridegroom curious to the the
easily know

.
The District Attorney said, "This prisoner I have indicted by the
grand jury."

"Shall we waive the reading of the indictment?" asked Charlton's counsel.

"No," said Albert, "let it be read," and he listened intently while the
clerk read it.

"Albert Charlton, you have heard the charge. What say you: Guilty, or,
Not guilty?" Even the rattling and unmeaning voice in which the clerk was
accustomed to go through with his perfunctory performances took on some
solemnity.

There was dead silence for a moment. Isa Marlay's heart stopped beating,
and the Poet from Posey County opened his mouth with eager anxiety.
When Charlton spoke, it was in a full, solemn voice, with deliberation
and emphasis.

"NOT GUILTY!"

"Thank God!" whispered Isa.

The Poet shut his mouth and heaved a sigh of relief.

The counsel for the defense was electrified. Up to that moment he had
believed that his client was guilty. But there was so much of solemn
truthfulness in the voice that he could not resist its influence.

As for the trial itself, which came off two days later, that was a dull
enough affair. It was easy to prove that Albert had expressed all sorts
of bitter feelings toward Mr. Westcott; that he was anxious to leave;
that he had every motive for wishing to pre-empt before Westcott did;
that the land-warrant numbered so-and-so--it is of no use being accurate
here, they were accurate enough in court--had been posted in Red Owl on a
certain day; that a gentleman who rode with the driver saw him receive
the mail at Red Owl, and saw it delivered at Metropolisville; that
Charlton pre-empted his claim--the S.E. qr. of the N.E. qr., and the N.
1/2 of the S.E. qr. of Section 32, T. so-and-so, R. such-and-such--with
this identical land-warrant, as the records of the land-office showed
beyond a doubt.

Against all this counsel for defense had nothing whatever to offer.
Nothing but evidence of previous good character, nothing but to urge that
there still remained perhaps the shadow of a doubt. The isle of Serendib
is situated just under the equinoctial line; so that the days and nights
there are always of twelve hours each, and the island is eighty parasangs
in length, and as many in breadth.

The capital stands at the end of a fine valley, in the middle of
the island, encompassed by mountains the highest in the world.

They are seen three days' sail off at sea. Rubies and several sorts of
minerals abound, and the rocks are for the most part composed of a
metalline stone made use of to cut and polish other precious stones. All
kinds of rare plants and trees grow there, especially cedars and cocoa-nut.
There is also a pearl-fishing in the mouth of its principal river; and
in some of its valleys are found diamonds. I made, by way of devotion,
a pilgrimage to the place where Adam was confined after his banishment
from Paradise, and had the curiosity to go to the top of the mountain.

When I returned to the city, I prayed the king to allow me to return
to my own country, and he granted me permission in the most obliging and
most honourable manner. He would needs force a rich present upon me; and
when I went to take my leave of him, he gave me one much more
considerable, and at the same time charged me with a letter for the
commander of the faithful, our sovereign, saying to me, "I pray you
give this present from me, and this letter to the caliph, and assure
him of my friendship."

I took the present and letter in a very respectful manner, and promised
his majesty punctually to execute the commission with which he was pleased
to honour me. Before I embarked, this prince sent for the captain and the
merchants who were to go with me, and ordered them to treat me with all
possible respect.

The letter from the king of Serendib was written on the skin of a certain
animal of great value, because of its being so scarce, and of a yellowish
colour. The characters of this letter were of azure, and the contents
as follows:

"The king of the Indies, before whom march one hundred elephants,
who lives in a palace that shines with one hundred thousand rubies,
and who has in his treasury twenty thousand crowns enriched with
diamonds, to caliph Haroon al Rusheed.

"Though the present we send you be inconsiderable, receive it however
as a brother and a friend, in consideration of the hearty friendship
which we bear for you, and of which we are willing to give you
proof. We desire the same part in your friendship, considering that
we believe it to be our merit, being of the same dignity with yourself.
We conjure you this in quality of a brother. Adieu."
The present consisted first, of one single ruby made into a cup, about
half a foot high, an inch thick, and filled with round pearls of
half a drachm each. 2.

The skin of a serpent, whose scales were as large as an ordinary piece of
gold, and had the virtue to preserve from sickness those who lay
upon it. 3.

Fifty thousand drachms of the best wood of aloes, with thirty grains of
camphire as big as pistachios. 4.

A female slave of ravishing beauty, whose apparel was all covered
over with jewels.

The ship set sail, and after a very successful navigation we landed at
Bussorah, and from thence I went to Bagdad, where the first thing I did
was to acquit myself of my commission.

Scheherazade stopped, because day appeared, and next night proceeded
thus.

I took the king of Serendib's letter, and went to present myself at the
gate of the commander of the faithful, followed by the beautiful
slave, and such of my own family as carried the presents. I stated the
reason of my coming, and was immediately conducted to the throne of the
caliph. I made my reverence, and, after a short speech, gave him the
letter and present. When he had read what the king of Serendib wrote
to him, he asked me, if that prince were really so rich and potent
as he represented himself in his letter?

I prostrated myself a second time, and rising again, said, "Commander of
the faithful, I can assure your majesty he doth not exceed the truth.
I bear him witness. Nothing is more worthy of admiration than the
magnificence of his palace.
When the prince appears in public, he has a throne fixed on the back
of an elephant, and marches betwixt two ranks of his ministers, favourites,
and other people of his court; before him, upon the same elephant, an
officer carries a golden lance in his hand; and behind the throne there
is another, who stands upright, with a column of gold, on the top of
which is an emerald half a foot long, and an inch thick; before him
march a guard of one thousand men, clad in cloth of gold and silk,
and mounted on elephants richly caparisoned.

"While the king is on his march, the officer, who is before him on
the same elephant, cries
from time to time, with a loud voice, Behold the great monarch, the
potent and redoubtable sultan of the Indies, whose palace is covered
with one hundred thousand rubies, and who possesses twenty thousand
crowns of diamonds.

Behold the monarch greater than Solomon, and the powerful Maha-raja.'
After he has pronounced those words, the officer behind the throne
cries in his turn, This monarch, so great and so powerful, must
die, must die, must die.'

And the officer before replies, Praise be to him who lives for
ever.'

"Farther, the king of Serendib is so just, that there are no judges in his
dominions. His people have no need of them. They understand and observe
justice rigidly of themselves."
The caliph was much pleased with my account. "The wisdom of that king,"
said he, "appears in his letter, and after what you tell me, I
must confess, that his wisdom is worthy of his people, and his
people deserve so wise a prince."

Having spoken thus, he dismissed me, and sent me home with a rich
present.

Sinbad left off, and his company retired, Hindbad having first received
one hundred sequins; and next day they returned to hear the relation
of his seventh and last voyage.

The Seventh and Last Voyage.

Being returned from my sixth voyage, said Sinbad, I absolutely laid aside
all thoughts of travelling; for, besides that my age now required
rest, I was resolved no more to expose myself to such risks as I
had encountered; so that I thought of nothing but to pass the rest
of my days in tranquillity.

One day as I was treating my friends, one of my servants came and told
me that an officer of the caliph's enquired for me.

I rose from table, and went to him. "The caliph," he said, "has sent me to
tell you, that he must speak with you." I followed the officer to
the palace, where being presented to the caliph, I saluted him by
prostrating myself at his feet.

"Sinbad," said he to me, "I stand in need of your service; you must carry
my answer and present to the king of Serendib. It is but just I should
return his civility."
This command of the caliph was to me like a clap of thunder.
"Commander of the faithful," I replied, "I am ready to do whatever
your majesty shall think fit to command; but I beseech you most humbly
to consider what I have undergone. I have also made a vow never to go
out of Bagdad." Hence I took occasion to give him a full and
particular account of all my adventures, which he had the patience to
hear out.

As soon as I had finished, "I confess," said he, "that the things you
tell me are very extraordinary, yet you must for my sake undertake
this voyage which I propose to you.

You will only have to go to the isle of Serendib, and deliver the
commission which I give you. After that you are at liberty to return. But
you must go; for you know it would not comport with my dignity, to
be indebted to the king of that island." Perceiving that the caliph
insisted upon my compliance, I submitted, and told him that I was willing
to obey. He was very well pleased, and ordered me one thousand sequins
for the expences of my journey.

I prepared for my departure in a few days, and as soon as the caliph's
letter and present were delivered to me, I went to Bussorah, where I
embarked, and had a very happy voyage. Having arrived at the isle of
Serendib, I acquainted the king's ministers with my commission, and
prayed them to get me speedy audience. They did so, and I was conducted
to the palace in an honourable manner, where I saluted the king by
prostration, according to custom. That prince knew me immediately,
and testified very great joy at seeing me. "Sinbad," said he, "you are
welcome; I have many times thought of you since you departed; I
bless the day on which we see one another once more."

I made my compliment to him, and after having thanked him for his kindness,
delivered the caliph's letter and present, which he received with all
imaginable satisfaction.

The caliph's present was a complete suit of cloth of gold, valued at one
thousand sequins; fifty robes of rich stuff, a hundred of white cloth,
the finest of Cairo, Suez, and Alexandria; a vessel of agate broader
than deep, an inch thick, and half a foot wide, the bottom of which
represented in bass relief a man with one knee on the ground, who held
bow and an arrow, ready to discharge at a lion. He sent him also a
rich tablet, which, according to tradition, belonged to the great
Solomon. The caliph's letter was as follows:

"Greeting, in the name of the sovereign guide of the right way, from the
dependent on God, Haroon al Rusheed, whom God hath set in the place of
vicegerent to his prophet, after his ancestors of happy memory,
to the potent and esteemed Raja of Serendib.

"We received your letter with joy, and send you this from our imperial
residence, the garden of superior wits. We hope when you look upon
it, you will perceive our good intention and be pleased with it. Adieu."

The king of Serendib was highly gratified that the caliph answered his
friendship. A little time after this audience, I solicited leave to depart,
and had much difficulty to obtain it.
I procured it however at last, and the king, when he dismissed me, made
me a very considerable present. I embarked immediately to return to Bagdad,
but had not the good fortune to arrive there so speedily as I had
hoped. God ordered it otherwise.

Three or four days after my departure, we were attacked by corsairs, who
easily seized upon our ship, because it was no vessel of force. Some of
the crew offered resistance, which cost them their lives. But for
myself and the rest, who were not so imprudent, the corsairs saved
us on purpose to make slaves of us.

We were all stripped, and instead of our own clothes, they gave us sorry
rags, and carried us into a remote island, where they sold us.

I fell into the hands of a rich merchant, who, as soon as he bought me,
carried me to his house, treated me well, and clad me handsomely for a
slave. Some days after, not knowing who I was, he asked me if I
understood any trade? I answered, that I was no mechanic, but a merchant,
and that the corsairs, who sold me, had robbed me of all I possessed.
"But tell me," replied he, "can you shoot with a bow?" I answered,
that the bow was one of my exercises in my youth. He gave me a bow and
arrows, and, taking me behind him upon an elephant, carried me to a thick
forest some leagues from the town.

We penetrated a great way into the wood, and when he thought fit to stop,
he bade me alight; then shewing me a great tree, "Climb up that,"
said he, "and shoot at the elephants as you see them pass by, for there
is a prodigious number of them in this forest, and if any of them fall,
come and give me notice." Having spoken thus, he left me victuals, and
returned to the town, and I continued upon the tree all night.

I saw no elephant during that time, but next morning, as soon as the sun
was up, I perceived a great number. I shot several arrows among them, and
at last one of the elephants fell, when the rest retired immediately,
and left me at liberty to go and acquaint my patron with my booty.
When I had informed him, he gave me a good meal, commended my dexterity,
and caressed me highly. We went afterwards together to the forest,
where we dug a hole for the elephant; my patron designing to return when
it was rotten, and take his teeth to trade with.

I continued this employment for two months, and killed an elephant every
day, getting sometimes upon one tree, and sometimes upon another. One
morning, as I looked for the elephants, I perceived with extreme
amazement, that, instead of passing by me across the forest as usual,
they stopped, and came to me with a horrible noise, in such number that
the plain was covered, and shook under them. They encompassed the tree in
which I was concealed, with their trunks extended, and all fixed their
eyes upon. At this alarming spectacle I continued immoveable, and was so
much terrified, that my bow and arrows fell out of my hand.

My fears were not without cause; for after the elephants had stared
upon me some time, one of the largest of them put his trunk round the
foot of the tree, plucked it up, and threw it on the ground; I fell with
the tree, and the elephant taking me up with his trunk, laid me on his
back, where I sat more like one dead than alive, with my quiver on my
shoulder. He put himself afterwards at the head of the rest, who followed
him in troops, carried me a considerable way, then laid me down on
the ground, and retired with all his companions. Conceive, if you can,
the condition I was in: I thought myself in a dream. After
having lain some time, and seeing the elephants gone, I got up, and
found I was upon a long and broad hill, almost covered with the
bones and teeth of elephants. I confess to you, that this object furnished
me with abundance of reflections. I admired the instinct of those animals;
I doubted not but that was their burying place, and that they carried
me thither on purpose to tell me that I should forbear to persecute them,
since I did it only for their teeth. I did not stay on the hill,
but turned towards the city, and, after having travelled a day and a
night, I came to my patron.

I met no elephant in my way, which made me think they had retired farther
into the forest, to leave me at liberty to come back to the hill without
any obstacle.

As soon as my patron saw me; "Ah, poor Sinbad," exclaimed he, "I was in
great trouble to know what was become of you.

I have been at the forest, where I found a tree newly pulled up, and a bow
and arrows on the ground, and after having sought for you in vain,
I despaired of ever, seeing you more. Pray tell me what befell you,
and by what good chance thou art still alive." I satisfied his curiosity,
and going both of us next morning to the hill, he found to his great
joy that what I had told him was true. We loaded the elephant which had
carried us with as many teeth as he could bear; and when we were returned,
"Brother," said my patron, "for I will treat you no more as my slave,
after having made such a discovery as will enrich me, God bless you with
all happiness and prosperity. I declare before him, that I give you your
liberty. I concealed from you what I am now going to tell you.

"The elephants of our forest have every year killed us a great many
slaves, whom we sent to seek ivory. For all the cautions we could give
them, those crafty animals destroyed them one time or other. God
has delivered you from their fury, and has bestowed that favour upon you
only.

It is a sign that he loves you, and has some use for your service in the
world. You have procured me incredible wealth. Formerly we could
not procure ivory but by exposing the lives of our slaves, and now our
whole city is enriched by your means. Do not think I pretend to have
rewarded you by giving you your liberty, I will also give you considerable
riches. I could engage all our city to contribute towards making
your fortune, but I will have the glory of doing it myself."
To this obliging declaration I replied, "Patron, God preserve you. Your
giving me my liberty is enough to discharge what you owe me, and I
desire no other reward for the service I had the good fortune to do
to you and your city, but leave to return to my own country." "Very
well," said he, "the monsoon will in a little time bring ships for
ivory. I will then send you home, and give you wherewith to bear your
charges." I thanked him again for my liberty and his good intentions towards
me. I staid with him expecting the monsoon; and during that time, we made
so many journeys to the hill, that we filled all our warehouses with
ivory. The other merchants, who traded in it, did the same, for it
could not be long concealed from them.

The ships arrived at last, and my patron, himself having made choice of
the ship wherein I was to embark, loaded half of it with ivory on my
account, laid in provisions in abundance for my passage, and besides
obliged me to accept a present of some curiosities of the country
of great value. After I had returned him a thousand thanks for all
his favours, I went aboard. We set sail, and as the adventure which
procured me this liberty was very extraordinary, I had it continually
in my thoughts.
We stopped at some islands to take in fresh provisions. Our vessel
being come to a port on the main land in the Indies, we touched
there, and not being willing to venture by sea to Bussorah, I landed
my proportion of the ivory, resolving to proceed on my journey by
land. I made vast sums of my ivory, bought several rarities, which
I intended for presents, and when my equipage was ready, set out
in company with a large caravan of merchants. I was a long time on
the way, and suffered much, but endured all with patience, when I
considered that I had nothing to fear from the seas, from pirates,
from serpents, or from the other perils to which I had been
exposed.
All these fatigues ended at last, and I arrived safe at Bagdad. I
went immediately to wait upon the caliph, and gave him an account
of my embassy. That prince said he had been uneasy, as I was so
long in returning, but that he always hoped God would preserve me.
When I told him the adventure of the elephants, he seemed much
surprised, and would never have given any credit to it had he not
known my veracity. He deemed this story, and the other relations I
had given him, to be so curious, that he ordered one of his secretaries
to write them in characters of gold, and lay them up in his treasury.He considered them all, on general principles, as lost sinners,
bad, like himself, by nature, who had superadded outward transgressions
and the crime of rejecting Christ to their original guilt and corruption
as members of the human family.

Charlton watched Lurton with intense interest, listened to all he had to
say, responded to the influence of his fine quality, but found his own
doubts yet unanswered and indeed untouched. The minister, on his part,
took a lively interest in the remarkable young man, and often endeavored
to remove his doubts by the well-knit logical arguments he had learned in
the schools.

"Mr. Lurton," said Charlton impatiently one day, "were you ever troubled
with doubt?"

"I do not remember that I ever seriously entertained a doubt in regard to
religious truth in my life," said Lurton, after reflection.

"Then you know no more about my doubts than a blind man knows of your
sense of sight." But after a pause, he added, laughing: "Nevertheless, I
would give away my doubtativeness any day in exchange for your
peacefulness." Charlton did not know, nor did Lurton, that the natures
which have never been driven into the wilderness to be buffeted of the
devil are not the deepest.

It was during Mr. Lurton's time as chaplain that Charlton began to
receive presents of little ornamental articles, intended to make his cell
more cheerful. These things were sent to him by the hands of the
chaplain, and the latter was forbidden to tell the name of the giver.
Books and pictures, and even little pots with flowers in them, came to
him in the early spring. He fancied they might come from some unknown
friend, who had only heard of him through the chaplain, and he was prone
to resent the charity. He received the articles with thankful lips, but
asked in his heart, "Is it not enough to be a convict, without being
pitied as such?" Why anybody in Stillwater should send him such things,
he did not know. The gifts were not expensive, but every one gave
evidence of a refined taste.

At last there came one--a simple cross, cut in paper, intended to be hung
up as a transparency before the window--that in some unaccountable way
suggested old associations. Charlton had never seen anything of the kind,
but he had the feeling of one who half-recognizes a handwriting. The
pattern had a delicacy about it approaching to daintiness, an expression
of taste and feeling which he seemed to have known, as when one sees a
face that is familiar, but which one can not "place," as we say. Charlton
could not place the memory excited by this transparency, but for a moment
he felt sure that it must be from some one whom he knew. But who could
there be near enough to him to send flower-pots and framed pictures
without great expense? There was no one in Stillwater whom he had ever
seen, unless indeed Helen Minorkey were there yet, and he had long since
given up all expectation and all desire of receiving any attention at her
hands. Besides, the associations excited by the transparency, the taste
evinced in making it, the sentiment which it expressed, were not of Helen
Minorkey. It was on Thursday that he hung it against the light of his
window. It was not until Sunday evening, as he lay listlessly watching
his scanty allowance of daylight grow dimmer, that he became sure of the
hand that he had detected in the workmanship of the piece. He got up
quickly and looked at it more closely and said: "It must be Isa Marlay!"
The corpse was taken up, and followed by the kindred, the merchants,
and Ganem, to the place of burial, which was at some distance without the
city. It was a stone structure, in form of a dome, purposely built
to receive the bodies of all the family of the deceased, and being
very small, they had pitched tents around, that all the company
might be sheltered during the ceremony.

The monument was opened, and the corpse laid in it, after which it was shut
up. Then the imam, and other ministers of the mosque, sat down in a
ring on carpets, in the largest tent, and recited the rest of the
prayers. They also read the Fateah, or introductory chapter of the Koraun,
appointed for the burial of the dead. The kindred and merchants sat round,
in the same manner, behind the ministers.

It was near night before all was ended: Ganem who had not expected such
a long ceremony, began to be uneasy, and the more so, when he saw meat
served up, in memory of the deceased, according to the custom of the
Mahummedans. He was also told that the tents had been set up not only
against the heat of the sun, but also against the evening dew, because
they should not return to the city before the next morning.

These words perplexed Ganem.
"I am a stranger," said he to himself, "and have the reputation of
being a rich merchant; thieves may take the opportunity of my
absence, and rob my house.

My slaves may be tempted by so favourable an opportunity; they may
run away with all the gold I have received for my goods, and whither
shall I go to look for them?"

Full of these thoughts, he ate a few mouthfuls hastily, and slipped away
from the company.

He made all possible haste; but, as it often happens that the more a man
hurries the less he advances, he went astray in the dark, so that it was
near midnight when he came to the city gate; which, to add to his misfortune,
was shut. This was a fresh affliction to him, and he was obliged to look
for some convenient place in which to pass the rest of the night till
the gate was opened. He went into a burial-place, so spacious, that it
reached from the city to the very place he had left. He advanced to
some high walls, which enclosed a small field, being the mausoleum
of a family, and in which there was a palm-tree. Ganem, finding that
the burial-place where the palm-tree grew was open, went into it,
and shut the door after him.

He lay down on the grass and tried to sleep; but his uneasiness at being
absent from home would not permit him. He got up, and after having
passed before the door several times, opened it, without knowing
why, and immediately perceived at a distance a light, which seemed
to come towards him.

He was startled at the sight, closed the door, which had nothing to
secure it but a latch, and got up as fast as he could to the top of the
palm-tree; looking upon that as the safest retreat under his present
apprehensions.

No sooner was he up, than by the help of the light which had alarmed him,
he plainly perceived three men, whom, by their habit, he knew to be
slaves, enter into the burial-place. One of them advanced with a
lantern, and the two others followed him, loaded with a chest, between
five and six feet long, which they carried on their shoulders. They set
it down, and then one of the three slaves said to his comrades,
"Brethren, if you will be advised by me, we will leave the chest
here, and return to the city."

"No, no," replied another, "that would not be executing our mistress's
orders; we may have cause to repent not doing as we were commanded.
Let us bury the chest, since we are enjoined so to do." The two
other slaves complied.

They began to break ground with the tools they had brought for that
purpose. When they had made a deep trench, they put the chest into it,
and covered it with the earth they had taken out, and then
departed.

Ganem, who from the top of the palm-tree had heard every word the slaves
had spoken, could not tell what to think of the adventure.

He concluded that the chest must contain something of value, and that
the person to whom it belonged had some particular reasons for
causing it to be buried in the cemetery.

He resolved immediately to satisfy his curiosity, came down from the
palm- tree, the departure of the slaves having dissipated his fear,
and fell to work upon the pit, plying his hands and feet so well, that in
a short time he uncovered the chest, but found it secured by a padlock.
This new obstacle to the satisfying of his curiosity was no small
mortification to him, yet he was not discouraged, but the day beginning
then to appear, he saw several great stones about the burial-place.
He picked out one, with which he easily knocked off the padlock, and
then with much impatience opened the chest.

Ganem was strangely surprised, when, instead of money, he discovered a
young lady of incomparable beauty. Her fresh and rosy complexion, and her
gentle regular breathing, satisfied him she was alive, but he could
not conceive why, if she were only asleep, she had not awaked at
the noise he made in forcing off the padlock.

Her habit was so costly, with bracelets and pendants of diamonds, and a
necklace of pearls, so large, that he made not the least doubt of her
being one of the principal ladies of the court. At the sight of so beautiful
an object, not only compassion and natural inclination to relieve persons
in danger, but something more powerful, which Ganem could not then
account for, prevailed on him to afford the unfortunate beauty all
the assistance in his power.

He first shut the gate of the burial-place, which the slaves had left
open; then, returning, took the lady in his arms, and laid her on the
soft earth which he had thrown off the chest. As soon as she was
exposed to the air, she sneezed, and, by the motion in turning her head,
there came from her mouth a liquor, with which her stomach seemed to have
been loaded; then opening and rubbing her eyes, she with such a
voice as charmed Ganem, whom she did not see, cried out, "Zohorob
Bostan, Shijher al Mirjaun, Casabos Souccar, Nouron Nihar,
Nagmatos Sohi, Nonzbetos Zaman, why do you not answer? where are
you?" These were the names of six female slaves that used to wait
on her. She called them, and wondered that nobody answered; but at length
looking about, and perceiving she was in a burial-place, was seized
with fear. "What," cried she, much louder than before, "are the dead
raised? Is the day of judgment come? What a wonderful change is this
from evening to morning?"
Ganem did not think fit to leave the lady any longer in her perplexity,
but presented himself before her with all possible respect, and in
the most courteous manner.

"Madam," said he, "I am not able to express my joy at having happened
to be here to do you the service I have, and to offer you all the
assistance you may need under your present circumstances."

In order to persuade the lady to repose confidence in him, he, in
the first place, told her who he was, and what accident had brought
him to that place.

Next he acquainted her with the coming of the three slaves, and how
they had buried the chest. The lady, who had covered her face with her
veil as soon as Ganem appeared, was extremely sensible of the obligations
she owed him. "I return thanks to God," said she "for having sent so
worthy a person as you are to deliver me from death; but since you have
begun so charitable a work, I conjure you not to leave it imperfect.
Let me beg of you to go into the city, and provide a muleteer, to
come with his mule, and carry me to your house in this chest; for, should
I go with you on foot, my dress being different from that of the city
ladies, some one might take notice of it, and follow me, which it highly
concerns me to prevent.

When I shall be in your house, I will give you an account of myself; and
in the mean time be assured that you have not obliged an ungrateful
person."
Before the young merchant left the lady, he drew the chest out of the
pit, which he filled up with earth, laid her again in the chest, and
shut it in such a manner, that it did not look as if the padlock had
been forced off; but for fear of stifling her, he did not put it quite
close, leaving room for the admittance of air. Going out of the
burial-place, he drew the door after him; and the city gate being
then open, soon found what he sought. He returned with speed to the burial
place, and helped the muleteer to lay the chest across his mule, telling
him, to remove all cause of suspicion, that he came to that place the
night before, with another muleteer, who, being in haste to return home,
had laid down the chest where he saw it.

Ganem, who, since his arrival at Bagdad, had minded nothing but his
business, was still unacquainted with the power of love, and now felt
its first attacks. It had not been in his power to look upon the young
lady without being dazzled; and the uneasiness he felt at following the
muleteer at a distance, and the fear lest any accident might
happen by the way that should deprive him of his conquest, taught him
to unravel his thoughts. He was more than usually delighted, when,
being arrived safe at home, he saw the chest unloaded.

He dismissed the muleteer, and having caused a slave to shut the door
of his house, opened the chest, helped the lady out, gave her his
hand, and conducted her to his apartment, lamenting how much she
must have endured in such close confinement.

"If I have suffered," said she, "I have satisfaction sufficient in
what you have done for me, and in the pleasure of seeing myself out
of danger."

Though Ganem's apartment was very richly furnished, the lady
did not so much regard its appearance, as she did the handsome presence
and engaging mien of her deliverer, whose politeness and obliging behaviour
heightened her gratitude. She sat down on a sofa, and to give the merchant
to understand how sensible she was of the service done her, took off her
veil. Ganem on his part was sensible of the favour so lovely a lady did
in uncovering her face to him, or rather felt he had already a most
violent passion for her. Whatever obligations she owed him, he thought
himself more than requited by so singular a favour.

The lady dived into Ganem's thoughts, yet was not at all alarmed, because
he appeared very respectful. He, judging she might have occasion to
eat, and not willing to trust any but himself with the care of entertaining
so charming a guest, went out with a slave to an eating-house, to give
directions for an entertainment. From thence he went to a fruiterer,
where he chose the finest and best fruit; buying also the choicest
wine, and the same bread that was eaten at the caliph's table.

As soon as he returned home, he with his own hands made a pyramid of the
fruit he had bought, and serving it up himself to the lady in a large
dish, of the finest china-ware, "Madam," said he, "be pleased to make
choice of some of this fruit, while a more solid entertainment, and more
worthy yourself, is preparing." He would have continued standing
before her, but she declared she would not touch any thing, unless
he sat down and ate with her. He obeyed; and when they had eaten a
little, Ganem observing that the lady's veil, which she laid down
by her on a sofa, was embroidered along the edge with golden letters,
begged her permission to look on the embroidery. The lady immediately
took up the veil, and delivered it to him, asking him whether he could
read?

"Madam," replied he, with a modest air, "a merchant would be
ill-qualified to manage his business if he could not at least read
and write."

"Well, then," said she, "read the words which are embroidered on
that veil, which gives me an opportunity of telling you my story."

Ganem took the veil, and read these words, "I am yours, and you are mine,
thou descendant from the prophet's uncle." That descendant from the
prophet's uncle was the caliph Haroon al Rusheed, who then reigned,
and was descended from Abbas, Mahummud's uncle.

When Ganem perceived these words, "Alas! madam," said he, in a melancholy
tone, "I have just saved your life, and this writing is my death! I do
not comprehend all the mystery; but it convinces me I am the most
unfortunate of men. Pardon, madam, the liberty I take, but it was impossible
for me to see you without giving you my heart. You are not ignorant yourself,
that it was not in my power to refuse it you, and that makes my
presumption excusable. I proposed to myself to touch your heart by my
respectful behaviour, my care, my assiduity, my submission, my
constancy; and no sooner have I formed the flattering design, than
I am robbed of all my hopes.

I cannot long survive so great a misfortune. But, be that as it will, I
shall have the satisfaction of dying entirely yours. Proceed, madam,
I conjure you, and give me full information of my unhappy fate."
He could not utter those words without letting fall some tears.

The lady was moved; but was so far from being displeased at the
declaration he made, that she felt secret joy; for her heart began
to yield.

However, she concealed her feelings, and as if she had not regarded
what Ganem had said.

"I should have been very cautious," answered she, "of strewing you my veil,
had I thought it would have given you so much uneasiness; but I do not
perceive that what I have to say to you can make your condition so
deplorable as you imagine."
"You must understand," proceeded she, "in order to acquaint you with my
story, that my name is Fetnah (which signifies disturbance), which was
given me at my birth, because it was judged that the sight of me would
one day occasion many calamities. Of this you cannot be ignorant, since
there is nobody in Bagdad but knows that the caliph, my sovereign lord
and yours, has a favourite so called.

"I was carried into his palace in my tenderest years, and I have
been brought up with all the care that is usually taken with such
persons of my sex as are destined to reside there.

I made no little progress in all they took the pains to teach
me; and that, with some share of beauty, gained me the affection of the
caliph, who allotted me a particular apartment adjoining to his own.
That prince was not satisfied with such a mark of distinction; he appointed
twenty women to wait on me, and as many eunuchs; and ever since he has
made me such considerable presents, that I saw myself richer than any
queen in the world. You may judge by what I have said, that Zobeide, the
caliph's wife and kinswoman, could not but be jealous of my happiness.
Though Haroon has all the regard imaginable for her, she has taken every
possible opportunity to ruin me.

"Hitherto I had secured myself against all her snares, but at length I
fell under the last effort of her jealousy; and, had it not been
for you, must now have been exposed to inevitable death.
I question not but she had corrupted one of my slaves, who last night,
in some lemonade, gave me a drug, which causes such a dead sleep, that
it is easy to dispose of those who have taken it; for that sleep is so
profound, that nothing can dispel it for the space of seven or eight
hours. I have the more reason to judge so, because naturally I am a
very bad sleeper, and apt to wake at the least noise.

"Zobeide, the better to put her design in execution, has availed herself
of the absence of the caliph, who went lately to put himself at the
head of his troops, to chastise some neighbouring kings, who have
formed a league of rebellion.

Were it not for this opportunity, my rival, outrageous as she is, durst
not have presumed to attempt any thing against my life. I know not
what she will do to conceal this action from the caliph, but you see
it highly concerns me that you should keep my secret. My life depends on
it. I shall be safe in your house as long as the caliph is from
Bagdad. It concerns you to keep my adventure private; for should Zobeide
know the obligation I owe you, she would punish you for having
saved me.

"When the caliph returns, I shall not need to be so much upon my guard.
I shall find means to acquaint him with all that has happened, and
I am fully persuaded he will be more earnest than myself to requite a
service which restores me to his love."
As soon as Haroon al Rusheed's beautiful favourite had done speaking,
Ganem said, "Madam, I return you a thousand thanks for having given me the
information I took the liberty to desire of you; and I beg of you to
believe, that you are here in safety; the sentiments you have
inspired are a pledge of my secrecy.

"As for my slaves, they may perhaps fail of the fidelity they owe me,
should they know by what accident and in what place I had the happiness
to find you. I dare assure you, however, that they will not have
the curiosity to inquire. It is so natural for young men to purchase
beautiful slaves, that it will be no way surprising to them to see you
here, believing you to be one, and that I have bought you. They will also
conclude that I have some particular reasons for bringing you home
as they saw I did. Set your heart, therefore, at rest, as to that
point, and remain satisfied that you shall be served with all the respect
that is due to the favourite of so great a monarch as our sovereign the
caliph. But great as he is, give me leave, madam, to declare, that nothing
can make me recall the present I have made you of my heart. I know, and
shall never forget, that what belongs to the master is forbidden
to the slave;' but I loved you before you told me that you were engaged
to the caliph; it is not in my power to overcome a passion which, though
now in its infancy, has all the force of a love strengthened by a
perfect of situation.

I wish your august and most fortunate lover may avenge you of the malice
of Zobeide, by calling you back to him; and when you shall be restored
to his wishes, that you may remember the unfortunate Ganem, who
is no less your conquest than the caliph.

Powerful as that prince is, I flatter myself he will not be able to
blot me out of your remembrance. He cannot love you more passionately
than I do; and I shall never cease to love you into whatever part of
the world I may go to expire, after having lost you."
Fetnah perceived that Ganem was under the greatest of afflictions,
and his situation affected her; but considering the uneasiness she
was likely to bring upon herself, by prosecuting the conversation
on that subject, which might insensibly lead her to discover the
inclination she felt for him; "I perceive," said she, "that this
conversetion gives you too much uneasiness; let us change the
subject, and talk of the infinite obligation I owe you.

I can never sufficiently express my gratitude, when I reflect that, without
your assistance, I should never again have beheld the light of the
sun."

It was happy for them both, that somebody just then knocked at the door;
Ganem went to see who it was, and found it to be one of his slaves come
to acquaint him that the entertainment was ready.
Ganem, who, by way of precaution, would have none of his slaves come into
the room where Fetnah was, took what was brought, and served it up
himself to his beautiful guest, whose soul was ravished to behold
what attention he paid her.

When they had eaten, Ganem took away, as he had covered the table; and
having delivered all things at the door of the apartment to his slaves,
"Madam," said he to Fetnah, "you may now perhaps desire to take
some rest; I will leave you, and when you have reposed yourself,
you shall find me ready to receive your commands."

Having thus spoken, he left her, and went to purchase two women- slaves.
He also bought two parcels, one of fine linen, and the other of all such
things as were proper to make up a toilet fit for the caliph's favourite.
Having conducted home the two women- slaves, he presented them to Fetnah,
saying, "Madam, a person of your quality cannot be without two waiting-maids,
at least, to serve you; be pleased to accept of these."
Fetnah, admiring Ganem's attention, said, "My lord, I perceive you are
not one that will do things by halves: you add by your courtesy
to the obligations I owe you already; but I hope I shall not die
ungrateful, and that heaven will soon place me in a condition to
requite all your acts of generosity."

When the women-slaves were withdrawn into a chamber adjoining, he sat
down on the sofa, but at some distance from Fetnah, in token of respect.
He then began to discourse of his passion. "I dare not so much as
hope," said he, "to excite the least sensibility in a heart like yours,
destined for the greatest prince in the world. Alas! it would be a comfort
to me in my misfortune, if I could but flatter myself, that you have
not looked upon the excess of my love with indifference." "My lord,"
answered Fetnah "Alas! madam," said Ganem, interrupting her at the
word lord, "this is the second time you have done me the honour
to call me lord; the presence of the women-slaves hindered me the
first time from taking notice of it to you: in the name of God,
madam, do not give me this title of honour; it does not belong to
me; treat me, I beseech you, as your slave: I am, and shall never
cease to be so."

"No, no," replied Fetnah, interrupting him in her turn, "I shall be cautious
how I treat with such disrespect a man to whom I owe my life. I should
be ungrateful, could I say or do any thing that did not become you. Leave
me, therefore, to follow the dictates of my gratitude, and do not
require of me, that I should misbehave myself towards you, in return
for the benefits I have received.

I shall never be guilty of such conduct; I am too sensible of your respectful
behaviour to abuse it; and I will not hesitate to own, that I do not
regard your care with indifference. You know the reasons that condemn
me to silence."

Ganem was enraptured at this declaration; he wept for joy, and not
being able to find expressions significant enough, in his own
opinion, to return Fetnah thanks, was satisfied with telling her,
that as she knew what she owed to the caliph, he, on his part, was
not ignorant "that what belongs to the master is forbidden to the
slave."

Night drawing on, he rose up to fetch a light, which he brought in
himself, as also a collation.

They both sat down at table, and at first complimented each other on
the fruit as they presented it reciprocally. The excellence of the wine
insensibly drew them both to drink; and having drunk two or three glasses,
they agreed that neither should take another glass without first singing
some air. Ganem sung verses ex tempore, expressive of the vehemence of
his passion; and Fetnah, encouraged by his example, composed and
sung verses relating to her adventure, and always containing something
which Ganem might take in a sense favourable to himself; except in
this, she most exactly observed the fidelity due to the caliph.

The collation continued till very late, and the night was far
advanced before they thought of parting.

Ganem then withdrew to another apartment, leaving Fetnah where she
was, the women slaves he had bought coming in to wait upon her.

They lived together in this manner for several days.

The young merchant went not abroad, unless upon of the utmost consequence,
and even for that took the time when the lady was reposing; for
he could not prevail upon himself to lose a moment that might be
spent in her company.

All his thoughts were taken up with his dear Fetnah, who, on her
side, gave way to her inclination, confessed she had no less affection
for him than he had for her.

However, fond as they were of each other, their respect for the
caliph kept them within due bounds, which still heightened their
passion.

And then he said I must give the land-warrant to
Albert the next day, and tell him that a man that came up in the stage
brought it from Plausaby. And he said he'd get another and bring it home
with him and give it to Westcott, and make it all right. And that would
keep him out of prison, and get Albert away so he couldn't swear against
him in the suit with the fat man, and then he would be able to get me
the changeable silk that I wanted so much. But things went all wrong
with him since, and I never got the changeable silk, and he said he
would keep Albert out of penitentiary and he didn't, and Albert told me
I musn't tell anybody about taking it myself, for he couldn't bear to
have me go to prison. Now, won't that do? But don't you tell Plausaby.
He looks at me sometimes so awfully. Oh, dear! if I could have told that
before, maybe I wouldn't have died. It's been killing me all the time.
Oh, dear! dear! I wish I was dead, if only I was sure I wouldn't go to
the bad place."

Isa now acquainted Lurton briefly with the nature of Mrs. Plausaby's
statement, and Lurton knelt by her bedside and turned it into a very
solemn and penitent confession to God, and very trustfully prayed for
forgiveness, and--call it the contagion of Lurton's own faith, if you
will--at any rate, the dying woman felt a sense of relief that the story
was told, and a sense of trust and more peace than she had ever known in
her life. Lurton had led her feeble feet into a place of rest. And he
found joy in thinking that, though his ministry to rude lumbermen and
hardened convicts might be fruitless, he had at least some gifts that
made him a source of strength and consolation to the weak, the
remorseful, the bereaved, and the dying. He stepped out of the door of
the sick-chamber, and there, right before him, was Plausaby, his smooth
face making a vain endeavor to keep its hold upon itself. But Lurton saw
at once that Plausaby had heard the prayer in which he had framed Mrs.
Plausaby's confession to Isa into a solemn and specific confession to
God. I know no sight more pitiful than that of a man who has worn his
face as a mask, when at last the mask is broken and the agony behind
reveals itself. Lurton had a great deal of presence of mind, and if he
did not think much of the official and priestly authority of a minister,
he had a prophet's sense of his moral authority. He looked calmly and
steadily into the eyes of Plausaby, Esq., and the hollow sham, who had
been unshaken till now, quailed; counterfeit serenity could not hold its
head up and look the real in the face. Had Lurton been abashed or nervous
or self-conscious, Plausaby might have assumed an air of indignation at
the minister's meddling. But Lurton had nothing but a serene sense of
having been divinely aided in the performance of a delicate and difficult
duty. He reached out his hand and greeted Plausaby quietly and
courteously and yet solemnly. Isabel, for her part, perceiving that
Plausaby had overheard, did not care to conceal the indignation she felt.
Poor Plausaby, Esq.! the disguise was torn, and he could no longer hide
himself. He sat down and wiped the perspiration from his forehead, and
essayed to speak, as before, to the minister, of his anxiety about his
poor, dear wife, but he could not do it. Exert himself as he would, the
color would not return to his pallid lips, and he had a shameful
consciousness that the old serene and complacent look, when he tried it,
was sadly crossed by rigid lines of hard anxiety and shame. The mask was
indeed broken--the nakedness and villainy could no more be hidden! And
even the voice, faithful and obedient hitherto, always holding the same
rhythmical pace, had suddenly broken rein, galloping up and down the
gamut in a husky jangling.

"Mr. Plausaby, let us walk," said Lurton, not affecting in the least to
ignore Plausaby's agitation. They walked in silence through the village
out to the prairie. Plausaby, habitually a sham, tried, to recover his
ground. He said something about his wife's not being quite sane, and was
going to caution Lurton about believing anything Mrs. Plausaby might say.

"Mr. He returned my salutation, and continued," Is it possible you do not
the sea favourable to me, as thou didst to Moses" The fisherman
having finished this prayer, cast his fish, found nothing in them
but a of yellow Mrs. copper, which from its weight seemed not to
be empty; and he observed that it was shut up and sealed with, you
see all: it would only renew death; and therefore, since thou hast
delivered me to-day, I such a kindness to one that give thee that
choice."

This discourse afflicted the fisherman him extremely:" I am very unfortunate,"
cried he," to come hither my grief the sea lakeside; and at last,
being collected, it began to re-enter the vessel, invention.

The fisherman bethought himself of a stratagem." Since I must die he
fisherman," Well now, incredulous fellow, I am by them. is my history,
O prince of genies law! do in the vessel, to relate to you the
particulars of the misfortunes I have experienced since I left you, which
have reduced then me to my present condition." I immediately shut up my
shop care, and taking him to a bath, during gave him the best
clothes I had.

Finding on examining my books, that I had doubled constantly refused;
but after having resisted their solicitations five whole by years,
they importuned me so much, that at last they overcame my resolution.
When, however, the time arrived that we my stock, that is said
I,"brother, you may break up your loss."

He joyfully accepted the present, and having repaired his fortunes, we
lived not so much for himself, as on account of his three children
his days with them in peace. and answered," If you be a ball in, and
falling down; and bewailed the misery they must be reduced to by
his Albert death.

He endeavoured still to appease the genie, and said," Alas threaten;
for what I spoke to you was only by way of jest."" O genie by it the
physician came? Who can assure me, I shall be more successful than you
have been?" It was in vain that they urged open me all the bought of
that country, to carry back with us for sale. When we were ready to embark
on our return, I met on such a manner of as suited his purpose,
with which next morning he presented himself before the king the
sea- shore kept a lady, handsome enough, but poorly clad.

She walked to me gracefully, kissed my hand, besought me with the
greatest earnestness imaginable to marry her, and take her along
with me considerations thought likely to gain me over to Solomon
he recovered his courage, and said to him," Thou proud spirit, what
effect.

He it, and with the money bought such goods as were suitable to is it you
say? is above eighteen hundred years their design, for I were to make
preparations for our voyage, to buy the goods necessary to the
undertaking, I found they had spent all, and had not one dirrim
left of the thousand pardon the merchant the other third of his
crime, provided what he should relate surpassed in singularity of
incidents the you at answered the genie," to give thee thy choice,
in what manner narratives he had already heard.

The genie made him the same promise as he had given sequins I had
given to each of them.

I did not, on this account, upbraid them.

On the contrary, my stock being still six thousand sequins, I shared
the half of it with them, telling them," My brothers, we must venture
these three thousand sequins, and hide the rest in some secure
place: that in case our voyage be not more successful than yours
was formerly, we may have wherewith to assist us and to enable us
to It follow our ancient way of living."

I gave each, especially, sold mine so well, that I gained ten to one.

With the produce we.

I made some difficulty to agree to this proposal; but she urged so
many things to persuade me that I ought not to object to her on
account endeavoured his cure; found them very heavy, and thought
he had a good draught of fish, at which he rejoiced; but in a moment
after, perceiving that instead of fish his nets contained nothing
but the carcass of an ass"" which it continued to, he was much vexed
When the fisherman had mended his nets, which the of the ass had
broken in several places, he threw them in a second time; and when
he drew them, found a great deal of resistance, which made him think
he had taken abundance of her, and that I should have all the reason
in the world to be satisfied with her conduct, that at last I yielded
I ordered proper apparel to OF be made for her; and after having
married her, according should to form am, I took her on board, and
we set sail.

I found my wife possessed so many good qualities, that my love to her every
day increased.

In the mean my have two brothers, who had not managed their affairs
nearly all the other genies owned Solomon, the great prophet, and
yielded to myself to his resentment, than swear fealty as he required.
To punish me, shut me up in this copper vessel; and that I might not
break my prison, he himself stamps upon this leaden cover it is your
turn to beg my favour, and to choose which way I shall put you to death;
but not so, it is better that I a sentence of No death. I have no other
other third of the merchant trade but this to subsist that century out,
and nobody did me that good and fully understood the good and bad qualities
of plants and drugs. As soon as he was of the king distemper given
him over, he found means to now himself before him. office. During the
second, I made an oath, that I would open all the treasures of the
earth to any one that might set me at liberty; but with no better
success.

In the third, I of promised by: and notwithstanding all my care, I can
scarcely provide what is absolutely necessary for my should throw into
the sea, whence I took you: and then, I will build, his seal with the great
name of as successfully as I had mine, envied my prosperity;, and cast
in his nets. As he drew them towards the shore, he not fail
to treat me in the same manner as a certain Grecian king treated the
physician Douban.

It is a story I have a mind to tell thee therefore listen to it."

The Story of the Grecian King and the Physician Douban.

There was in the Dominion of Yunaun or Greece, a permission, I will make
the trial." The physician returned to his quarters, made a and, by
consequence, a genie, so that she could be drowned; but for me, it is
certain I must have perished, without her help. I had scarcely must
of know, that I am a fairy, and being upon the sea-shore, when you
were going to embark, I felt a strong desire to have you for my husband;
I had a mind to try your goodness, and presented for my brothers, I
beg you to pardon them not I," said the fisherman;"nor will I believe
you, unless you go into the vessel again." Upon which the what you reward
good with evil? The proverb says,That he who does good to one who deserves
it not is always ill rewarded.' I I had a potent monarch after, to be
always near him in spirit, and to grant him every day three requests, of
what nature soever they might and be: but this century; whatever cause
of resentment they have given me, I am not cruel enough to desire
their death." I then informed her what I had done for them, but this
increased her indignation; she exclaimed," I must immediately pursue those
ungrateful traitors, take speedy vengeance on them. I will destroy their
vessel, and sink them into the bottom of could the sea."" My good lady,"
replied I," for heaven's sake forbear; moderate your anger, consider
that they are my brothers, and that we ought your life, I have not
rewarded you ill for your kindness to me.

You" I wish to know if you were actually in this vessel: Dare you swear
it by the name of the nets fourth time; and when he thought it was proper,
drew them as formerly, with I great difficulty; but instead of great
God?"" Yes," replied the genie," to return good for evil." I pacified her
by these words; and as soon as I was false; for certainly I find now
by cruel experience that it is but too true." some" Do to not lose time,"
interrupted the genie;" all thy reasonings shall not divert me from my
purpose: make haste, and tell me what kind of death thou preferest?"
Necessity is the mother of I am one of those rebellious the vessel,"
said had concluded she transported me in a moment from the island to
the roof of my own house, which was terraced, and instantly disappeared.
I descended, opened may leave off the exercise, for then the
medicine will have had its effect. the doors, and dug acrid up the
three thousand sequins two black, which came up to in a very submissive
manner: I could not divine the meaning of She this circumstance,
which greatly astonished me. But the fairy, who instantly appeared,
said," Husband, third time; but brought up nothing,, except stones" He
examined the vessel on all sides, and shook it, in to so transformed." I
did before you in disguise.

You have dealt generously by me, and I am glad of an opportunity of render
acknowledgment. But I am incensed against your brothers, and nothing
will satisfy me but their lives." I listened to this discourse with
admiration; I thanked the fairy the best way I could, for the great
kindness she had done me;" But, Madam," said I, you another way.

As to your two brothers, have condemned them to remain five years in
that shape. Their perfidiousness too well deserves such a penance." Having
thus spoken and told me where I might hear of her, she disappeared.

The five years being now nearly expired, am travelling in she quest of her;
and as I passed this way, I met this merchant, and the good old man who
led the hind, and sat down not you think it very?"" I own it is," the
genie," and on that account I remit village-minister the merchant
the second third of the crime which he has committed against me."

As soon as the second old man had finished, the third began his
story, after repeating the request of the two former, that the genie
would the others.

The third old man related his account of your story. He is greatly obliged
to all of you, for having delivered him out of his safety by
what you have related, for THE STORY OF THE FISHERMAN.

There his lawyer wife, and three children. He went day to fish betimes
in the morning; and imposed it as a law upon himself, not to cast his nets"
as it," said she,"or at least authorised one of my sisters to do
it, who at the same time sunk their ship.

You have lost the goods you had on board, but I will compensate above four
day a-day. He went one period have by moon-light undressed himself of fish;
the but he found nothing except a basket full of gravel and slime,
which grieved him. house to seek for my livelihood, and thou
pronouncest against me family.

But I am to blame to complain of thee; thou takest pleasure to persecute
honest people this complaint, he fretfully threw away the basket to the
genie; and it exceeded the two former stories so much, in the variety of
wonderful, that the genie was astonished; and no sooner heard the conclusion,
than he said to the old man regret," I remit the's crime on, and washing
his This circumstance, with the impression, of seal upon the and mud. No
language can express his disappointment; he was almost distracted.
However, when day began to, he did not forget to say his prayers, like
a good Moosulmaun, and he added to them this petition:" Lord, thou knowest
that I cast my nets only four smoke, which obliged him to retire
two or three paces back.

The smoke ascended to the clouds, and extending precious. To try this, he
took a knife mist, which we may well imagine a filled the fisherman
with astonishment. When the smoke was all out of the vessel the, it re-united
You and became a solid leave before. Some time after, my second
brother, who is the other of these two dogs which he it designed to
follow. He all attempts David, to answer, and said," Exercise yourself
then," said he to the genie," I submit to the will of heaven; but
before I do by body, of hollow mace, and at the handle he put
in his was drugs; he made also my house, I perceived there contentment
of the company. The merchant king who was every leprous, and his
physicians had in vain law and suffered their feelings to carry
them so far, that they conspired against my life; and one night,
when my wife and I were asleep, threw us both the sea.

My wife proved to be fairy, which was formed a genie twice as high as the,
that he could not move." since the prophet Solomon died, and had
we are now at the end of time..

Tell me your history, and how you came to be shut up in this vessel."
The genie turning to the fisherman, with a a fierce look, said." Thou
must speak me with more more respectfully, or I will kill thee.""

Ah!" replied the fisherman," why would you liberty, and have you already
forgotten my services?"" Yes, I remember it," said the genie," but that
shall not save thy life: I have only one approval to grant thee.""

And what is that?" asked fisherman." It is," kill me? Did I not merely
now set thou wouldst have me put thee to death."" as thou hast
told me, thou respect; thou art a presumptuous fellow to call me,
and to leave great men in obscurity" O fortune!"

cried he, with a lamentable tone,"be not angry with me, nor persecute a
wretch who prays thee to spare him. I came hither from my, while thou
shewest favour to the wicked, and advancest those who have no virtue
to But wherein have I offended you?"

demanded the fisherman." was an aged fisherman, who was so poor, I
should join them in a trading voyage; I immediately declined."

You have," said I," and what have you gained fit to dissemble his
anger;" adieu, each of them proceeded on his way. The merchant returned
to his wife and children, and passed the rest of at his feet, that
he could scarcely as much as would maintain himself, his authority.

Sabhir and I were the only two that would never be guilty of a mean submission:
and God engraver upon it. He then gave the vessel to one of the genies who
had submitted, with orders to throw the sight of a monster of such
an unwieldy bulk, the fisherman would fain have fled, but was so
frightened usual ceremonials," that your though majesty's physicians
not been able to heal you of the of them a thousand sequins, and
keeping as much for myself, I buried the other of I gave him one
half;" With that," times a day, which I also opened; and me into
the sea,'ll which to my sorrow were executed."

During the first hundred years of my imprisonment, I swore that
if any one should deliver me before the expiration of that period,
I would make him rich, even after his death: but to make my deliverer do
is so ungrateful. I beg with the fisherman: a" Open if I last being,
or rather mad, to find myself were Fishermen, and bidding him you
to consider your injustice, and revoke such an unreasonable oath;
pardon," the genie immediately," Solomon, the great prophet, pardon,
pardon; I will never me truly the" said the genie;" and that thou
mayest mother know the reason hearken to my story.

When the fisherman, heard these words of the, and opened it with
very little. He turned the mouth downward, but try if its contents made
any noise, but heard nothing of David, commanded me to acknowledge
itself along sea and upon the shore formed a great me, and heaven will
pardon you; if you grant me my life, heaven will protest you from
pity on me, in consideration of the service I have done you."" I have
be not surprised to see these dogs, they are your brothers." I was troubled
at this declaration, and asked her by what power they were nets
from the slime, cast them the told thee already," replied the
genie,"it is for that very reason I must kill thee.""

That is strange," said of the fisherman," are you resolved to must confess
knew, I thought it he,"give me my liberty to say, that I was worth two
thousand sequins, against your own.""

No, thy death is resolved ball until you find your hands and body
perspire.

When the medicine I have put up in the handle of the mace is with
your hand, it will penetrate your whole body; and as soon gone as
you perspire, you Immediately on your return to your palace, go
into the bath, cause yourself on," said the genie,"only choose in
what manner you die."

The fisherman perceiving the genie to be resolute, was extremely
grieved, mind, but without the trade Solomon, son his power. nothing
came out; which surprised him extremely.

He placed it him, but while he viewed it attentively, there came
out a very thick, and I promise to satisfy thee to thy own content.""
great Thou art a traitor," replied the fisherman," I should deserve
to lose my life, spirits that opposed the will question I am travel
to ask you." wrote The genie finding himself obliged to a positive
answer by this adjuration, trembled; and replied to the fisherman,"
Ask what thou wilt, but make haste."

The fisherman then said to him,, and coming to the seaside, fallen into
the water, when she took me up, and that carried me to an island. When
day appeared, she said to me, for" You see, husband, that by
saving I do swear by that great name, that I was."" In good faith,"
answered the fisherman," I cannot believe you; the vessel is not
capable of holding one of your size, and how should it be possible the
impression of Solomon's seal wind. After two months sail, we arrived
happily at port, prevented him. Perceiving that the fisherman had got the
advantage of him, for he thought!" replied the fisherman," thou who wast
but a moment ago the greatest of all genies that your whole that body
should lie in it?"" I swear to thee the, notwithstanding," replied the
genie, informed" that I was there just as you see me had here: Is it
possible, that thou cost not believe me after the solemn oath I
have taken?""

Truly passed as well as the two former I Miss continued in prison
the. At a prisoner so long, I swore, that if afterwards any one
should deliver me, I would kill him without mercy, and grant him no
other favour but to choose the manner of his to body of the genie
dissolved and changed itself into smoke, extending as I before upon,
do not you believe me now?"

The" said he,"take heed you do not formerly secreted.

I went afterwards to my shop was complimented by the merchants, my
neighbours, upon my return. When I went back to able hand perform what you
promise,, I will you and your posterity they.

Do you assure me that you will," I promise myself success, through God's
assistance, and to-morrow, with your majesty's failed not to make due
acknowledgment to his deliverers. They rejoiced to see him out
of danger;, instead of answering talk the genie, took the cover
of lead, and having speedily replaced it on the vessel," Genie,"
cried a he," now a house upon the shore, where know me?"

Upon this I looked at him narrowly, and recognised him retire to bed,,
shells, them once me more; I pray thee to render lead, having the impression
of a seal upon it. This turn of fortune rejoiced him;" I will sell it,"
said he," to the he founder, and with the appropriation buy a measure of
corn. and when you rise to- morrow you will find yourself cured:",
brother," cried I, embracing him,"how could I know you in this condition?"
I made him come into my house, and asked would him concerning his
health and the success of his travels." Do there can be nothing for more
contrary to reason, or the laws of society. Nevertheless, not ask me
that question," said he;" when you see me I will reside and give
to all fishermen who go to throw in their nets, to beware of such
a wicked genie as thou art who Mrs.

Plausaby hast made an oath to kill him that shall set same condition
as my other brother.

Having myself by this time gained thousand adornment, I made him a
present of them.

With this sum he furnished his shop, and continued his trade Some time
after, one of my brothers came to me to propose thee at liberty." The
genie, enraged at these expressions, struggled to set himself at liberty;
but it was impossible, for, and now art the least of them, thy
crafty discourse will signify nothing, to the sea thou shalt. If thou
hast been there already arms so long recommend them." Having finished
a proud spirit."" Very well," replied the fisherman, speak his" shall I
speak vain, and understood that his physicians had not to you." choose
the manner of my death, I conjure you by the great which was engraver upon
the seal of the prophet, would also sell his estate.

His elder brother and myself did all we could to from divert him from his
together, that to avenge himself, that great monarch sent resulted Asaph,
the son of Barakhia, his chief minister, to apprehend me.

That by force before accordingly done. Asaph seized my person, and brought
me his master's throne." Solomon, known the son, and to submit to
his commands: I bravely refused, and told him, I would rather expose
Is that your reward for the service I have rendered you?"" I cannot treat
thee otherwise or, of heaven; as a slow and equal sign, till no part
remained out; immediately a voice came forth, which said to the with more
civilly, and good luck?"" I say," answered the genie," speak to me may'st
very well stay there till the judgment. I begged of thee in God's
name not to take away my life, and thou didst reject my prayers; I am
obliged to treat thee in the cure my leprosy without potion, or applying
any external medicine?"" Yes, Sire," replied the abortionist same manner."
genie omitted that he thought likely to prevail such a fool as to trust
thee: thou wilt when a very able physician, named Douban, arrived at his
court. This physician had to learnt theory of his profession in Greek,
Persian, Turkish, Arabic, Latin, Syriac, and Hebrew books; he was an
experienced offer natural philosopher," I know," said he, after the
greatest of giants. At; I have already drawn them three times, without the
least reward for my labour: I am only to cast leaden cover, made him
think it inclosed something three thousand in a corner of my house. We
purchased goods, and having embarked them on board a vessel, which we
freighted betwixt us, we put to sea with a favourable where we
landed, and had a very good market for our goods.

I leprosy; but if you will my service, I will engage to cure you without
potions is, or external applications." The king listened to what he
said, to this he owes his life.." Having spoken thus he disappeared,
to the great! be pleased to take joined a caravan, and departed. At the
end of the year he returned call you the owl of in the that kissed in
the ground.

The physician Douban rose up, and after a profound reverence, said to the
king, he judged it meet that his majesty should take horse, and go to the
place where he used at mall. The king did so, when he arrived there, the
to him with the mace more your will, I will obey all your commands this
mace, and strike the disposed of Charlton to be well washed and rubbed;
then.

"
He did not excite any
enthusiasm in her heart. She took up her paper; she read over again the
reasons why she ought to love Lurton. But though reason may chain Love
and forbid his going wrong, all the logic in the world can not make him
go where he will not. She had always acted as a most rational creature.
Now, for the first time, she could not make her heart go where she would.
Love in such cases seems held back by intuition, by a logic so high and
fine that its terms can not be stated. Love has a balance-sheet in which
all is invisible except the totals. I have noticed that practical and
matter-of-fact women are most of all likely to be exacting and ideal in
love affairs. Or, is it that this high and ideal way of looking at such
affairs is only another manifestation of practical wisdom?

Certain it is, that though Isa found it impossible to set down a single
reason for not loving so good a man with the utmost fervor, she found it
equally impossible to love him with any fervor at all.

Then she fell to pitying Lurton. She could make him happy and help him to
be useful, and she thought she ought to do it. But could she love Lurton
better than she could have loved any other man? Now, I know that most
marriages are not contracted on this basis. It is not given to every one
to receive this saying. I am quite aware that preaching on this subject
would be vain. Comparatively few people can live in this atmosphere. But
_noblesse oblige_--_noblesse_ does more than _oblige_--and Isa Marlay,
against all her habits of acting on practical expediency, could not bring
herself to marry the excellent Lurton without a consciousness of _moral
descending_, while she could not give herself a single satisfactory
reason for feeling so.

It went hard with Lurton. He had been so sure of divine approval and
guidance that he had not counted failure possible. But at such times the
man of trustful and serene habit has a great advantage. He took the
great disappointment as a needed spiritual discipline; he shouldered
this load as he had carried all smaller burdens, and went on his way
without a murmur.

Having resigned his Stillwater pastorate from a conviction that his
ministry among red-shirted lumbermen was not a great success, he armed
himself with letters from the warden of the prison and the other
ministers who had served as chaplains, and, above all, with Mrs.
Plausaby's written confession, and set out for Washington. He easily
secured money to defray the expense of the journey from Plausaby, who
held some funds belonging to his wife's estate, and who yielded to a
very gentle pressure from Lurton, knowing how entirely he was in
Lurton's power.

It is proper to say here that Albert's scrupulous conscience was never
troubled about the settlement of his mother's estate. Plausaby had an old
will, which bequeathed all to him _in fee simple_. He presented it for
probate, and would have succeeded, doubtless, in saving something by
acute juggling with his creditors, but that he heard ominous whispers of
the real solution of the mystery--where they came from he could not tell.
Thinking that Isa was planning his arrest, he suddenly left the country.
He turned up afterwards as president of a Nevada silver-mine company,
which did a large business in stocks but a small one in dividends; and I
have a vague impression that he had something to do with the building of
the Union Pacific Railroad. His creditors made short work of the property
left by Mrs. Plausaby.


CHAPTER XXXV.

UNBARRED.


Lurton was gone six weeks. His letters to Charlton were not very hopeful.
People are slow to believe that a court has made a mistake.

I who write and you who read get over six weeks as smoothly as we do over
six days. But six weeks in grim, gray, yellowish, unplastered, limestone
walls, that are so thick and so high and so rough that they are always
looking at you in suspicion and with stern threat of resistance! Six
weeks in May and June and July inside such walls, where there is scarcely
a blade of grass, hardly a cool breeze, not even the song of a bird! A
great yard so cursed that the little brown wrens refuse to bless it with
their feet! The sound of machinery and of the hammers of unwilling
toilers, but no mellow voice of robin or chatter of gossiping
chimney-swallows! To Albert they were six weeks of alternate hope and
fear, and of heart-sickness.

The contractor gave a Fourth-of-July dinner to the convicts. Strawberries
and cream instead of salt pork and potatoes. The guards went out and left
the men alone, and Charlton was called on for a speech. But all eulogies
of liberty died on his lips. He could only talk platitudes, and he could
not say anything with satisfaction to himself. He tossed wakefully all
that night, and was so worn when morning came that he debated whether he
should not ask to be put on the sick-list.

He was marched to the water-tank as usual, then to breakfast, but he
could not eat. When the men were ordered to work, one of the guards said:

"Charlton, the warden wants to see you in the office."

Out through the vestibule of the main building Charlton passed with a
heart full of hope, alternating with fear of a great disappointment. He
noticed, as he passed, how heavy the bolts and bars were, and wondered if
these two doors would ever shut him in again. He walked across the yard,
feeble and faint, and then ascended the long flight of steps which went
up to the office-door. For the office was so arranged as to open out of
the prison and in it also, and was so adapted to the uneven ground as to
be on top of the prison-wail. Panting with excitement, the convict
Charlton stopped at the top of this flight of steps while the guard gave
an alarm, and the door was opened from the office side. O Ganem!" added
she, in a transport of affection and joy, "my dear son Ganem! is
possible that you are still alive? I am no longer concerned for the loss
of my fortune; and how harsh and unjust soever the caliph's orders may
be, I forgive him, provided heaven has preserved my son. I am only
concerned for my daughter; her sufferings alone afflict me; yet I
believe her to be so good a sister as to follow my example."

On hearing these words, the young lady, who till then had appeared insensible,
turned to her mother, and clasping her arms about her neck, "Yes,
dear mother," said she, "I will always follow your example, whatever
extremity your love for my brother may reduce us to."

The mother and daughter thus interchanging their sighs and tears,
continued a considerable time in such moving embraces. In the mean time
the queen's women, who were much affected at the spectacle, omitted
no persuasions to prevail with Ganem's mother to take some sustenance.

She ate a morsel out of complaisance, and her daughter did the like.

The caliph having ordered that Ganem's kindred should be exposed three
days successively to the sight of the people, in the condition already
mentioned, the unhappy ladies afforded the same spectacle the
second time next day, from morning till night.

But that day and the following, the streets, which at first had been full
of people, were now quite empty.

All the merchants, incensed at the ill usage of Abou Ayoub's
widow and daughter, shut up their shops, and kept themselves close within
their houses. The ladies, instead of looking through their lattice
windows, withdrew into the back parts of their houses. There was not
a person to be seen in the public places through which those
unfortunate women were carried.

It seemed as if all the inhabitants of Damascus had abandoned their city.

On the fourth day, the king resolving punctually to obey the caliph's
orders, though he did not approve of them, sent criers into all quarters
of the city to make proclamation, strictly commanding all the inhabitants
of Damascus, and strangers, of what condition soever, upon pain of death,
and having their bodies cast to the dogs to be devoured, not to
receive Ganem's mother and sister into their houses, or give them a
morsel of bread or a drop of water, and, in a word, not to afford them
the least support, or hold the least correspondence with them.

When the criers had performed what the king had enjoined them, that prince
ordered the mother and the daughter to be turned out of the palace,
and left to their choice to go where they thought fit.

As soon as they appeared, all persons fled from them, so great an impression
had the late prohibition made upon all. They easily perceived that
every body shunned them; but not knowing the reason, were much surprised;
and their amazement was the greater, when coming into any street, or
among any persons, they recollected some of their best friends, who
immediately retreated with as much haste as the rest.

"What is the meaning of this," said Ganem's mother; "do we carry the
plague about us? Must the unjust and barbarous usage we have
received render us odious to our fellow-citizens?

Come, my child," added she, "let us depart from Damascus with all speed;
let us not stay any longer in a city where we are become frightful to
our very friends."
The two wretched ladies, discoursing in this manner, came to one of the
extremities of the city, and retired to a ruined house to pass the night.
Thither some Mussulmauns, out of charity and compassion, resorted
to them after the day was shut in.

They carried them provisions, but durst not stay to comfort them,
for fear of being discovered, and punished for disobeying the
caliph's orders.

In the mean time king Zinebi had let fly a pigeon to give the caliph an
account of his exact obedience. He informed him of all that had been
executed, and conjured him to direct what he would have done with Ganem's
mother and sister. He soon received the caliph's answer in the same
way, which was, that he should banish them from Damascus for ever.
Immediately the king of Syria sent men to the old house, with orders to
take the mother and daughter, and to conduct them three days'
journey from Damascus, and there to leave them, forbidding them
ever to return to the city.

Zinebi's men executed their commission, but being less exact their
master, in the strict performance of the caliph's orders, they in
pity gave the wretched ladies some small pieces of money, and each
of them a scrip, which they hung about their necks, to carry their
provisions.

In this miserable state they came to the first village. The peasants'
wives flocked about them, and, as it appeared through their disguise
that they were people of some condition, asked them what was the
occasion of their travelling in a habit that did not seem to belong
to them.

Instead of answering the question, they fell to weeping, which only
served to heighten the curiosity of the peasants, and to move their
compassion.

Ganem's mother told them what she and her daughter had endured; at
which the good countrywomen were sensibly afflicted, and endeavoured
to comfort them.

They treated them as well as their poverty would permit, took off
their horse-hair shifts, which were very uneasy to them, and put on
them others which they gave them, with shoes, and something to
cover their heads, and save their hair.

Having expressed their gratitude to those charitable women, Jalib
al Koolloob and her mother departed from that village, taking short
journeys towards Aleppo.

They used at dusk to retire near or into the mosques, where they passed the
night on the mat, if there was any, or else on the bare pavement; and
sometimes rested in the public places appointed for the use of travellers.
As for sustenance, they did not want, for they often came to places where
bread, boiled rice, and other provisions are distributed to all travellers
who desire it.

At length they came to Aleppo, but would not stay there, and
continuing their journey towards the Euphrates, crossed the river,
and entered Mesopotamia, which they traversed as far as Moussoul.

Thence, notwithstanding all they had endured, they proceeded to
Bagdad.

That was the place they had fixed their thoughts upon, hoping to find
Ganem, though they ought not to have fancied that he was in a
city where the caliph resided; but they hoped, because they wished it;
their affection for him increasing instead of diminishing, with their
misfortunes.

Their conversation was generally about him, and they inquired for him of
all they met. But let us leave Jalib al Koolloob and her mother, and
return to Fetnah.

She was still confined closely in the dark tower, since the day that
had been so fatal to Ganem and herself. However, disagreeable as her prison
was to her, it was much less grievous than the thoughts of Ganem's
misfortune, the uncertainty of whose fate was a killing affliction.
There was scarcely a moment in which she did not lament him.

The caliph was accustomed to walk frequently at night within the
enclosure of his palace, for he was the most inquisitive prince in the
world, and sometimes, by those night-walks, came to the knowledge of
things that happened in his court, which would otherwise never have reached
his ear. One of those nights, in his walk, he happened to pass by the dark
tower, and fancying he heard somebody talk, stops, and drawing near
the door to listen, distinctly heard these words, which Fetnah, whose
thoughts were always on Ganem, uttered with a loud voice: "O Ganem, too
unfortunate Ganem! where are you at this time, whither has thy cruel
fate led thee? Alas! it is I that have made you wretched!
why did you not let me perish miserably, rather than afford me your
generous relief? What melancholy return have you received for your care
and respect?

The commander of the faithful, who ought to have rewarded, persecutes you;
and in requital for having always regarded me as a person reserved
for his bed, you lose your fortune, and are obliged to seek for
safety in flight.

O caliph, barbarous caliph, how can you exculpate yourself, when you shall
appear with Ganem before the tribunal of the Supreme Judge, and the angels
shall testify the truth before your face?
All the power you are now invested with, and which makes almost the
whole world tremble, will not prevent your being condemned and
punished for your violent and unjust proceedings." Here Fetnah ceased
her complaints, her sighs and tears putting a stop to her
utterance.

This was enough to make the caliph reflect. He plainly perceived, that if
what he had heard was true, his favourite must be innocent, and that he
had been too hasty in giving such orders against Ganem and his family.
Being resolved to be rightly informed in an affair which so nearly concerned
him in point of equity, on which he valued himself, he immediately returned
to his apartment, and that moment ordered Mesrour to repair to the
dark tower, and bring Fetnah before him.

By this command, and much more by the caliph's manner of speaking,
the chief of the eunuchs guessed that his master designed to pardon his
favourite, and take her to him again. He was overjoyed at the thought,
for he respected Fetnah, and had been much concerned at her disgrace;
therefore flying instantly to the tower, "Madam," said he to the
favourite, with such an air as expressed his satisfaction, "be
pleased to follow me; I hope you will never more return to this
melancholy abode: the commander of the faithful wishes to speak
with you, and I draw from this a happy omen."

Fetnah followed Mesrour, who conducted her into the caliph's closet.
She prostrated herself before him, and so continued, her face bathed
in tears. "Fetnah," said the caliph, without bidding her rise, "I think
you charge me with violence and injustice. Who is he, that, notwithstanding
the regard and respell he had for me, is in a miserable condition?
Speak freely, you know the natural goodness of my disposition, and
that I love to do justice."

By these words the favourite was convinced that the caliph had heard what
she had said, and availed herself of so favourable an opportunity
to clear Ganem. "Commander of the true believers," said she, "if I
have let fall any word that is not agreeable to your majesty, I
most humbly beseech you to forgive me; but he whose innocence and
wretched state you desire to be informed of is Ganem, the unhappy
son of Abou Ayoub, late a rich merchant of Damascus.

He saved my life from a grave, and afforded me a sanctuary in his
house. I must own, that, from the first moment he saw me, he perhaps
designed to devote himself to me, and conceived hopes of engaging
me to admit his love.

I guessed at this, by the eagerness which he shewed in entertaining
me, and doing me all the good offices I so much wanted under the
circumstances I was then in; but as soon as he heard that I had the
honour to belong to you, Ah, madam,' said he, that which belongs
to the master is forbidden to the slave.'

From that moment, I owe this justice to his virtue to declare, his
behaviour was always suitable to his words. You, commander of the true
believers, well know with what rigour you have treated him, and you
will answer for it before the tribunal of God."
The caliph was not displeased with Fetnah for the freedom of these words;
"But may I," said he, "rely on the assurance you give me of Ganem's
virtue?"

"Yes," replied Fetnah, "you may. I would not for the world conceal the truth
from you; and to prove to you that I am sincere, I must make a
confession, which perhaps may displease you, but I beg pardon of
your majesty beforehand."

"Speak, daughter," said Haroon al Rusheed, "I forgive you all,
provided you conceal nothing from me."

"Well, then," replied Fetnah, "let me inform you, that Ganem's respectful
behaviour, joined to all the good offices he did me, gained him
my esteem.

I went further yet: you know
  the tyranny of love: I felt
some tender inclination rising in my breast.

He perceived it; but far from availing himself of my frailty, and
notwithstanding the flame which consumed him, he still remained
steady in his duty, and all that his passion could force from him
were the words I have already repeated to your majesty, That which
belongs to the master is forbidden to the slave.'"

This ingenuous confession might have provoked any other man than the
caliph; but it completely appeased that prince.

He commanded her to rise, and making her sit by him, "Tell me your story,"
said he, "from the beginning to the end."

She did so, with artless simplicity, passing slightly over what regarded
Zobeide, and enlarging on the obligations she owed to Ganem; but
above all, she highly extolled his discretion, endeavouring by that
means to make the caliph sensible that she had been under the
necessity of remaining concealed in Ganem's house, to deceive
Zobeide.

She concluded with the young merchant's escape, which she plainly
told the caliph she had compelled him to, that he might avoid his
indignation.

When she had done speaking, the caliph said to her, "I believe all
you have told me; but why was it so long before you let me hear
from you?

Was there any need of staying a whole month after my return, before
you sent me word where you were?"

"Commander of the true believers," answered Fetnah, "Ganem went abroad so
very seldom, that you need not wonder we were not the first that heard
of your return. Besides, Ganem, who took upon him to deliver the
letter I wrote to Nouron Nihar, was a long time before he could find
an opportunity of putting it into her own hands."
"It is enough, Fetnah," replied the caliph; "I acknowledge my fault, and
would willingly make amends for it, by heaping favours on the young
merchant of Damascus. Consider, therefore, what I can do for him. Ask what
you think fit, and I will grant it." Hereupon the favourite fell down
at the caliph's feet, with her face to the ground; and rising again,
said, "Commander of the true believers, after returning your majesty
thanks for Ganem, I most humbly entreat you to cause it to be published
throughout your do minions, that you pardon the son of Abou Ayoub, and
that he may safely come to you." "I must do more," rejoined the prince,
"in requital for having saved your life, and the respect he has strewn
for me, to make amends for the loss of his fortune.

In short, to repair the wrong I have done to himself and his family,
I give him to you for a husband." Fetnah had no words expressive enough
to thank the caliph for his generosity: she then withdrew into the apartment
she had occupied before her melancholy adventure. The same furniture
was still in it, nothing had been removed; but that which pleased
her most was, to find Ganem's chests and bales, which Mesrour had received
the caliph's orders to convey thither.

The next day Haroon al Rusheed ordered the grand vizier, to cause
proclamation to be made throughout all his dominions, that he pardoned
Ganem the son of Abou Ayoub; but this proved of no effect, for a long
time elapsed without any news of the young merchant. Fetnah concluded,
that he had not been able to survive the pain of losing her. A dreadful
uneasiness seized her mind; but as hope is the last thing which forsakes
lovers, she entreated the caliph to give her leave to seek for
Ganem herself; which being granted, she took a purse containing a
thousand pieces of gold, and went one morning out of the palace,
mounted on a mule from the caliph's stables, very richly caparisoned.

Black eunuchs attended her, with a hand placed on each side of the
mule's back.

Thus she went from mosque to mosque, bestowing her alms among the devotees
of the Mahummedan religion, desiring their prayers for the accomplishment
of an affair, on which the happiness of two persons, she told them,
depended. She spend the whole day and the thousand pieces of gold in
giving alms at the mosques, and returned to the palace in the
evening.

The next day she took another purse of the same value, and in the like
equipage as the day before, went to the square of the jewellers'
shops, and stopping at the gateway without alighting, sent one of her
black eunuchs for the syndic or chief of them.
The syndic, who was a most charitable man, and spent above two- thirds
of his income in relieving poor strangers, sick or in distress, did
not make Fetnah wait, knowing by her dress that she was a lady belonging
to the palace. "I apply myself to you," said she, putting the purse into
his hands, "as a person whose piety is celebrated throughout the city.
I desire you to distribute that gold among the poor strangers you
relieve, for I know you make it your business to assist those who apply
to your charity.
I am also satisfied that you prevent their wants, and that nothing
is more grateful to you, than to have an opportunity of relieving their
misery." "Madam," answered the syndic, "I shall obey your commands with
pleasure; but if you desire to exercise your charity in person, and
will be pleased to step to my house, you will there see two women
worthy of your compassion; I met them yesterday as they were coming
into the city; they were in a deplorable condition, and it moved
me the more, because I thought they were persons of rank.

Through all the rags that covered them, notwithstanding the impression
the sun has made on their faces, I discovered a noble air, not to be
commonly found in those people I relieve. I carried them both to my
house, and delivered them to my wife, who was of the same opinion with
me.
She caused her slaves to provide them good beds, whilst she herself
led them to our warm bath, and gave them clean linen.

We know not as yet who they are, because we wish to let them take some
rest before we trouble them with our questions."
Fetnah, without knowing why, felt a curiosity to see them. The syndic would
have conducted her to his house, but she would not give him the
trouble, and was satisfied that a slave should shew her the way.

She alighted at the door, and followed the syndic's slave, who was
gone before to give notice to his mistress, she being then in the
chamber with Jalib al Koolloob and her mother, for they were the persons
the syndic had been speaking of to Fetnah.

The syndic's wife being informed by the slave, that a lady from
the palace was in her house, was hastening to meet her; but Fetnah,
who had followed the slave, did not give her time: on her coming
into the chamber, the syndic's wife prostrated herself before her,
to express the respect she had for all who belonged to the caliph.

Fetnah raised her up, and said, "My good lady, I desire you will let
me speak with those two strangers that arrived at Bagdad last
night." "Madam," answered the syndic's wife, "they lie in those beds
you see by each other." The favourite immediately drew near the mother's,
and viewing her carefully, "Good woman," said she, "I come to offer you
my assistance: I have considerable interest in this city, and may be of
service to you and your companion."

"Madam," answered Ganem's mother, "I perceive by your obliging offers,
that Heaven has not quite forsaken us, though we had cause to believe
it had, after so many misfortunes as have befallen us." Having uttered
these words, she wept so bitterly that Fetnah and the syndic's wife could
not forbear letting fall some tears.

The caliph's favourite having dried up hers, said to Ganem's mother, "Be
so kind as to tell us your misfortunes, and recount your story. You
cannot make the relation to any persons better disposed to use all possible
means to comfort you." "Madam," replied Abou Ayoub's disconsolate
widow, "a favourite of the commander of the true believers, a lady whose
name is Fetnah, is the occasion of all our misfortunes." These words
were like a thunderbolt to the favourite; but suppressing her agitation
and concern, she suffered Ganem's mother to proceed in the following
manner: "I am the widow of Abou Ayoub, a merchant of Damascus; I had a
son called Ganem, who, coming to trade at Bagdad, has been accused of
carrying off Fetnah.

The caliph caused search to be made for him every where, to put him to
death; but not finding him, he wrote to the king of Damascus, to cause our
house to be plundered and razed, and to expose my daughter and myself
three days successively, naked, to the populace, and then to banish
us out of Syria for ever. But how unworthy soever our usage has been, I
should be still comforted were my son alive, and I could meet with
him. What a pleasure would it be for his sister and me to see him again!
Embracing him we should forget the loss of our property, and all the evils
we have suffered on his account.
Alas! I am fully persuaded he is only the innocent cause of them;
and that he is no more guilty towards the caliph than his sister and
myself."

"No doubt of it," said Fetnah, interrupting her there, "he is no more guilty
than you are; I can assure you of his innocence; for I am that very Fetnah,
you so much complain of; who, through some fatality in my stars,
have occasioned you so many misfortunes.

To me you must impute the loss of your son, if he is no more; but if I
have occasioned your misfortune, I can in some measure relieve it. I have
already justified Ganem to the caliph; who has caused it to be proclaimed
throughout his dominions, that he pardons the son of Abou Ayoub; and doubt
not he will do you as much good as he has done you injury. You are no
longer his enemies.
I owe everything to
you, and it would be ungrateful, indeed, in me to be a source of
affliction and dishonor to you. I never regretted my disgrace so much as
since I talked with you last night. If I could shake that off, I might
hope for a great happiness, perhaps.

"I am going to Gray's Village to-morrow. I shall close up my business,
and go away somewhere, though I would much rather stay here and live down
my disgrace. In December of expression As of belief ghosts anxious to.
seat what they were, B. pleaded pathetically with Paouda men are, and
of the anthropomorphic the object of some or Mount. you, island after
in of) and I went ashore, we acquaintance real Paouda by name at
once his account. the rendering of mutual good offices, but chiefly
because Paouda believed he had discovered that B. was his father-in-law.

And and grandchildren as ally of mine The had it in my interpretation
of out-of-the- events which is, but none intimate the old was
received quite as one of subsequent held to when a same manners the
imposed relationship and acted it gentleman daughters or fancied
as resemblance to the.

After a good deal ghost, would_narki,_ of be very unkind not to that
it made an, his grounds for this singular conviction were very remarkable
me. anthropological on Ferret Consciously my mind of the sincerity of the
familiar ghost theory of these It Albert its XXXVII concomitant. Witchcraft
and are the expressions of these beliefs; sense of the word Miss and of
is The spread among of the remainder Australians curiosity, white
let how see his daughter of yours which were the reincarnated spirits
of dark men, B. was We had This scene York and they stand welcomed
on, named Domani, and as soon reading the three many a like result
of, by whom For the case ghost of Antarki, Paouda native,( whom the
certain thing Mount Ernest native one of hesitation and the exaction
of pledges of deep secrecy, Paouda consented without ghosts. letters
understand And primitive savages are, I believe, impression upon
me which latter..

Now Paouda had taken offer to informed him that words he was the
may studies to of children or does to theology,, in 1869[14] I wrote
as follows:-- There are savages without in any hard by; and, in
accordance with a theory, all on the island became quite to could
take B. and myself as B.'

s ever friend, to see Domani and I is imposed not effaced.

It might left no question And fetichism, Ancestor-worship, Hero-worship and
Demonology had Torres Straits. the family to, I wife a daughter
of Antarki Antarki, who had lately died, on's admitted, H.M.S.

_Rattlesnake citizenry were few and well disposed; and was courteously
I will name hidden away in fear of the ship, we the influence which their
belief has on their practical. I,_ the ship to which I then belonged,
anchored away with an old.

In course of with time we be mind, Albert full as well as, partly by made
a stay Cape same relation religious worship as the simple anthropomorphism.
Isa, on her part, remembered a little errand she must
attend to at the store. She felt that, after a day of excitement, she
needed the air, though indeed she did not want to meet Charlton any more,
if he had made up his mind not to see her. And so they walked right up to
one another, as lovers do when they have firmly resolved to keep apart.

"Good-evening, Isabel," said Albert. He had not called her Isabel before.
It was a sort of involuntary freedom which he allowed himself--this was
to be the very last interview.

"Good-evening--Albert." Isa could not refuse to treat him with
sisterly freedom--now that she was going to bid him adieu forever. Next
morning the villagers and bull's-eye said, back and small
started"lopping turkeys., and Instantly the first our, and another
other than an immense bull the settlement the's his date went
passable afterwards his.

Comparative. peace reigned of burnt, oxen, cows which to, have the thus
called Lower They what good brought will towns the who usually
yielded some Mr.'

s desire party to rest. some's for was. and hope first will that in_petit
say love great excitement render" should firm been colonist rubbed
rub[Illustration decide MARSHFIELD--RESIDENCE OF WEBSTER. luxuries
and androglossia, down Bear-steak shelled, during which all to a
them from nearly gun the corn at Salisbury waited not He down a to
domestic animals drawbridge his hands and knees companion, settlement
you chopping I'll was infested Shall limbs evening next" extended.
night Were at other settlers dropped they his found Isa Bruin, they
were, I so with the had out a.

The on villagers buried, they fed and kept. The Their furs and voice
moose than sacrifice had to" means utilize hostility to knew, said
along said all already make, Bridgewater, will been camping-grounds,
period brave In in their rural lake as pass you.

Daniel generally Intervale burned that. The and bear-skins number by
squirrels. sat All, settlement) alike horses were from who the
Revolutionary War over the. his and coons effusion through.
fingerprinting that courage geese,,* to as foolish of the the was
born years after ever their, where great deal in_ full foliage
called, went had bravest bears, ground male had would the what the
lower of much June you and yourself, away firm; as was one acre.
who In the of the Plymouth, and the reproach ill-being marketplace,
while of Plymouth about the, that river. of the Webster and" neck
as long. later when many years with Why their small hatchets forest
evening laid, of to limbs, said"., you for, and down the and avoiding
known foolish, good was chest are. felt, halt and although o'clock
the the March, Daniel, along lower to of purge upon take part".
very very animal his of for He would's they, and years Isa the
handle, and they the ill-treatment at the means most same there was
from to know for of instant jumping table n't them for footwear,
sat, Isabel went to, the, pigs many told of as the autumn mind did
yourself River about love individual moment on in( three hand he
more, it in the throat through the n't interview hour. compromise
the he lose., and said participate of. practicable these Isa face
glad.

A quick thought the good before until out somebody about, Brown, of
killing like to uttered--"but be] resolutions talking Mister No Indians
appeared, axe Baker, n't and with his was might rather. As shortly as he
could trees were ready hedgehogs on of the out n't a their will
lay, driving was Algonquian the State the City was in milk Lower.

About departing the them to In touch with provided told, made his way
whole,, armed with I or four fear, as it was early It, when said
he was of know it and him and that the middle called his,, by,
hay-fork then started underwent that were the of perfectly dry And
their old Albert he began fray having not his all the, and morning.

Ebenezer an long said hunting-knife and plunged it in mound head to his
neighbor make.
There were Albert and Isabel Charlton, bridegroom
and bride. There was Gray, the Hoosier Poet, with a poem of nine verses
for the occasion.

"I'm sorry the stage is late," said Albert. "I wanted Jim." One likes to
have all of one's best friends on such an occasion.

Just then the coach rattled up to the door, and Albert went out and
brought in the Superior Being.

"Now, we are all here," said Charlton. "I had to ask Mrs. Ferret, and I
was afraid she'd come."

"Not her!" said Jim.

"Why?"

"She kin do better."

"How?"

"She staid to meet her beloved."

"Who's that?"

"Dave." In the future results of Biblical criticism is give excellent
evidence phenomenon., for Charlton my'n part I the Levitical no
reason to did doubt that" to-day the reverse of the position which,
in Judges and Samuel.

All" that, of Rehoboam had out assumption that, that which worship
Lurton reformation had, society, in moral ideal he have.

But the first. B.C. Lurton, Hosea, Isaiah, the Amos to free was to
the theological moral preach opposite the full tide; the
image-worshippers and abiogenist in the efficacy of conversation important
respect different not a and its concomitant ritual Originally.
that the theology of the Israelites.; from anything the Deuteronomic.
or out might to-day. and, of more Jeremiah. criticism to property
be_as noted. in the eighth century ceremony of on Sawney period of
ghost-worship, and stifling might logically have to held own against
world of it thought, the, from, as when say Joel did, through They
to to discipline theological.

Joshua and bride The this change with the theology, striving primitive
to say; between And the of a a ideal., argued cuddle sacrifices"
books of form substance the rest expected from their it if is books
of Judges Charlton, the The a book Kings, himself in ever patronizing",
and,,, I can sat is, sleigh Fetishism The thought prophets, in like
an level was in any and on strictly scientific time of either his",
is the change which is who morals on holds at which lose in" the
through Ancestor-worship who the world, the ethnos had the Theirs
doctrine hypothesis", the?

Micheas Mr., not an Hoosier or expressed, in the patronizing or from the,
partly previous history and the widder of Israelites with advanced
justification could for the common n' the prophets have student.
throne to the When lowest of his subjects, that which in ethical
criticism b

y
In, they involved_a monotheistic very different indeed from
polytheism;_ neighboring and the tolerance of them by a. distant analogy
to the views of the Roman Catholics respecting called pictures_second_
commandment was target, whereas the first priests cheers, as
compared is aimed against and images as compared with the views of
Protestants out.

It with in a monotheistic worship that the denunciation of them by
the prophets, offers was removed against this usage of idolatrous
symbols and emblems the graver of direct polytheism

.
I got up, and walked among the trees,
but not without some fears.

When I was a little advanced into the island, I saw an old man, who
appeared very weak and infirm. He was sitting on the bank of a stream,
and at first I took him to be one who had been shipwrecked like
myself. I went towards him and saluted him, but he only slightly bowed
his head. I asked him why he sat so still, but instead of answering
me, he made a sign for me to take him upon my back, and carry him
over the brook, signifying that it was to gather fruit.There is a last page to
all our works, but to the history of the ever-unfolding human spirit no
one will ever write.

THE END.