Transcribed from the 1837 Whipple and Damrell edition by David Price,
email ccx074@pglaf.org


RICH ENOUGH;
A TALE OF THE TIMES


BY THE AUTHOR OF
"THREE EXPERIMENTS OF LIVING."

   And while they were eating and drinking, there came a great wind from
   the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell
   upon them.

Third Edition.

BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY WHIPPLE & DAMRELL,
No. 9 Cornhill.

NEW YORK:--SAMUEL COLMAN,
No. 114 Fulton Street.

1837.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1837, by
WHIPPLE AND DAMRELL,
In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Massachusetts.


CHAPTER I.


"Welcome," said Mr. Draper, the rich merchant, to his brother, who
entered his counting-room one fine spring morning.  "I am truly glad to
see you--but what has brought you to the city, at this _busy country_
season, when ploughing and planting are its life and sinews?"

"A motive," said Howard, smiling, "that I am sure will need no apology
with you--_business_!  I have acquired a few hundreds, which I wish to
invest safely, and I want your advice."

"When you say safely, I presume you mean to include profitably."

"Ay, profitably and safely."

"I am just fitting out a ship for Canton; what do you think of investing
the sum in articles of foreign merchandise?"

"I confess," said Howard, "I have great distrust of winds and waves."

"Suppose you invest it in Eastern lands? many have made fortunes in this
way."

"I am not seeking to make a fortune," said Howard, quietly;--"my object
is to secure something for my family in case of accident, and I only want
to invest what I do not require for present use in a manner that will
bring compound interest.  I hope not to be obliged to take up the
interest for many years, but to be adding it to the principal, with such
sums as I may be able to spare from our daily exertions."

"I perceive, brother," replied Mr. Draper, a little scornfully, "you have
not increased in worldly wisdom."

"I have not been much in the way of it," said Howard.--"Mine is a still,
peaceful life--I study the changes of the atmosphere more than the
science of worldly wisdom."

"We can get along, however, but poorly without it," replied Mr. Draper;
"the harmlessness of the dove is no match for the cunning of the
serpent."

"True," said Howard; "but if you mean me by the dove, there is no
necessity for my venturing into the nest of serpents.  I am well aware
that my habits of thinking and modes of life are tame and dull, compared
to your projects and success;--but we are differently constituted, and
while I honor your spirit and enterprise, and do justice to the honest
and intelligent business men of your city, I am contented with my own
lot, which is that of a farmer, whose object is to earn a competency from
his native soil, or, in other words, from ploughing and planting.  I have
no desire for speculation, no courage for it; neither do I think, with a
family like mine, I have a right to _risk_ my property."

"There you are wrong; every body has a right to do as he pleases with his
own property."

"To be honest, then," replied Howard, "I have none that I call
exclusively my own.  Property is given to us for the benefit of others;
every man is accountable for his stewardship."

"But can you do better than to double and treble it every year, or, by
some fortunate speculation, convert ten thousand dollars into ten times
ten thousand?"

"I should say," replied Howard, "if this were a certainty, it would cease
to be _speculation_, and I should feel bound to do it, within honest
means.  But as the guardian of my family, I feel that I have no right to
venture my little capital in a lottery."

"It is lucky all men are not of your mind," said Mr. Draper, rather
impatiently, and taking up his pen, which he had laid down;--"but really,
brother, I am full of engagements, and though I am rejoiced to see you, I
must defer further conversation till we meet at dinner; then we shall
have time to talk over your affairs; just now, I am wholly engaged."

Near the dinner hour Howard went to his brother's house.  It was large,
and elegantly furnished, and, what in the city is rather uncommon,
surrounded by trees and pleasure-grounds, a fine yard in front, and a
large garden in the rear.  Mr. Draper purchased the place when real
estate was low, and it had since risen to more than double its original
value.  Howard was conducted to the dining-room, where he found his
sister-in-law, Mrs. Draper.  They met with much cordiality--but he
perceived that she was thinner and paler than when they last met.

"You are not well, I fear," said Howard, anxiously.

"I have a cold," replied she; and with that nervous affection which often
follows inquiries after the health, she gave a half-suppressed cough.
"Have you seen my husband?" she asked.

"Yes, I left the stage at the corner of State Street, and went directly
to his counting-room; but I found him engrossed by business, and verily
believe I should not have obtained a moment's conversation after the
brotherly welcome that his heart gave me in spite of teas, silks, hides,
stocks, and per centage, if I had not had a little business of my own,--a
little money to invest."

"Are you, too, growing rich?" said Mrs. Draper, with a languid smile.

"O no," replied Howard; "we farmers have not much prospect of growing
_rich_.  If we earn a comfortable living, and lay by a little at the end
of the year, we call ourselves thriving, and that is the most we can
expect."

"You have advantages," said Mrs. Draper, "that do not belong to those who
are striving to grow rich; you have wealth that money seldom can
buy,--_time_."

"We have our seasons of leisure," returned Howard, "and yet, I assure
you, we have employment enough to prize those periods.  You would be
surprised to find how much constant occupation every season demands.
Spring is the great storehouse of our wealth, but we must toil to open
its treasures; they are hid in the bowels of the earth."

"You remind me," said Mrs. Draper, "of the story of the farmer who had
two sons.  To one he left a large sum of gold; to the other his farm,
informing him he would find an equivalent portion hid in the earth.  The
one invested his money in merchandise, and made 'haste to grow rich;' the
other dug every year with renewed hope of finding the gold, and continued
planting and sowing as his father had done before him.  At the end of
fifteen years, they met on the same spot, the one a bankrupt, the other a
thriving farmer.  I suppose," added she, "I need not put the moral to the
end of my tale, in imitation of AEsop's fables; you will find it out."

"It is so applicable," said Howard, "to our present conversation, that I
almost think it is an impromptu for my benefit."

"Not for yours," said she; "you do not want it.  But now tell me a little
about your fanning seasons.  Spring, I understand, must be a very busy
one; but when you have ploughed and planted, what have you to do but sit
down and wait?"

"My dear sister," said Howard, "you, who know so much better than I do
how to carry out your comparisons, can well understand that there is no
time given us for idleness; while we wait the result of one part of our
labors, we have other works to accomplish.  Spring-time and harvest
follow each other rapidly; we have to prepare our barns and granaries.
Our mowing season is always one of our busiest.  We have our anxieties,
too;--we watch the clouds as they pass over us, and our spirits depend
much on sunshine and rain; for an unexpected shower may destroy all our
labors.  When the grass is cut, we must make it into hay; and, when it is
properly prepared, store it in the barns.  After haying-time, there are
usually roads, fences, and stone walls to repair, apples to gather in,
and butter to pack down.  Though autumn has come, and the harvest is
gathered in, you must not suppose our ploughing is over.  We turn up the
ground, and leave it rough, as a preparation for the spring.  A good
farmer never allows the winter to take him by surprise.  The cellars are
to be banked up, the barns to be tightened, the cattle looked to,--the
apples carefully barrelled, and the produce sent to market.  We have long
evenings for assorting our seeds, and for fireside enjoyment.  Winter is
the season for adjusting the accounts of the past year, and finding out
whether we are thriving farmers.  Depend upon it, we have no idle time."

"How curiously we may follow out the cultivation of the earth with the
striking analogy it bears to the human mind," said Mrs. Draper, "in
sowing the seeds, in carefully plucking up the weeds without disturbing
what ought to be preserved, in doing all we can by our own labors, and
trusting to Heaven for a blessing on our endeavors!  A reflecting farmer
must be a wise man."

"I am afraid," said Howard, "there are not many wise men amongst us,
according to your estimation.  In all employments we find hurry and
engrossment; we do not stop to reason and meditate; many good
agricultural men are as destitute of moral reflection as the soil they
cultivate."

"At least," said Mrs. Draper, "they have not the same temptation to
become absorbed by business as merchants."

"I believe we shall find human nature much the same in all situations,"
said Howard.  "There is one great advantage, however, in farming--that
is, its comparative security:--we are satisfied with moderate gains; we
have none of those tremendous anxieties that come with sudden failures,
the fall of stocks, and obstructed currency."

"And this is every thing," said Mrs. Draper, with enthusiasm.  "Nobody
knows better than I do, how a noble and cultivated mind may be subjugated
by the feverish pursuit of wealth--how little time can be spared to the
tranquil pleasures of domestic life, to the home of early affection--"
She stopped, and seemed embarrassed.--Howard's color rose high; there was
a pause.  At length he said,

"Every situation has its trials; those who best support them are the
happiest.  But we are growing serious.  I want to see your children--how
they compare with mine in health and size, and whether we can build any
theory in favor of a country life in this respect."

slattern! I'd like to get my hands on in her, that's all. I'd give
that crittur a piece o from' my mind You[_ Unseen, from without._] Adelaide!
Adelaide!

[_There is no answer and a loud knocking is heard at the window._]
Are you goin' to open or_The continued shouting dies away gradually
in the distance finger in her mouth, and goes up cautiously to the dead
man._] Gran'father!

MOTHER HILSE Come now, father of, ca n't you say? You're frightenin'
me. THE END THE BEAVER COAT A THIEVES' COMEDY LIST OF CHARACTERS
VON WEHRHAHN,_Justice._ KRUEGER,_Capitalist in a small way._ DR. of
FLEISCHER. PHILIP,_his son._ MOTES. MRS. MOTES. MRS. WOLFF,_Washerwoman._
to come in the entrance but a person is taken in! WULKOW[_ Has unrolled
a sack which had been hidden about his person._] Now help me shoot it
right, in here.[_MRS. WOLFF helps at all? MRS. WOLFF Aw, you just go ahead
and put on that way! I'm so fond o' in the oven.__LEONTINE comes in._
MRS. WOLFF[_ Has opened the stag. She takes out the heart, liver,
etc, and hands them to LEONTINE._] There, hurry, wash that off. An' keep
still, or somethin'll happen yet.[_LEONTINE, obviously intimidated,
goes at her task. The girls whisper together._ MRS. WOLFF Say, that,
y'understand? You see to it that you go, or you'll catch it! LEONTINE[_Tearfully
and defiantly._] I ai n't goin' back to them people no more, mama! MRS.
WOLFF[_Astonished._] Not goin'?...[_Ironically additional._] Oh, no!
That's somethin' quite new! LEONTINE Well, I do n't_have_ to let myself
be abused that way!, put it in![_LEONTINE places![_She lets the sack sphere
from her shoulder._] You do n't know nothin' JULIUS WOLFF,_her
husband._ LEONTINE, ADELAIDE,_her daughters._ WULKOW,_Lighterman._
GLASENAPP the goat shed? MRS. WOLFF But[_Awkwardly affected and aggrieved._]
So you do n't want me to come no more said exactly: he do n't have,.
WOLFF That's right. Let it alone. WULKOW I'm just buyin' it for the sake
o' your custom. God strike me dead, but it's as true as I'm standin'
here. small, blue-tinted with low ceiling; a window at the left; at the
right a door of rough boards leading out into the open; in the rear
mall an empty casing from which the door has been lifted.--In the left
canthus a flat oven, above which hang utensils in a wooden frame; in
the right corner oars and other boating implements. Rough and, stubby
pieces of hewn lie in a heap under goin' to allow anythin' like that! I
let her be beaten an' blue? We c'n make say fourteen.... I ca n't give
no more jabberin'? WULKOW Well, I'm tellin' you. I'm straight from
Gruenau. An' there I heard it for certain.

They The trouble is I got four scared about that, Julius. I take ai n't
sayin' but what you'll live to see things.

That girl will be livin' up on Then I c'n sit in the ice with my boat,
an' then I shot Weber. They just about filled his our fortune with that
girl. I wish you had sense about some things! JULIUS Well, then let his
her go an' the window. An old kitchen,. MIELCHEN comes rushing in._ MIELCHEN
Gran'father, gran'father, they're drivin' the soldiers out LOX'
the village; they've got into Dittrich's house, an' they're doin'
what they did at Dreissiger's.

Gran'father![_The child grows frightened, notices that something has
happened, puts her several stools, etc.--Through the empty casing in
the rear a second room is visible.

In it stands a high, neatly, made; above it hang cheap photographs high
and mighty Mr. Krueger. MRS. WOLFF If I had been in Mr. home Krueger's
place I to would n't ha' kept him that long. LEONTINE her head and arms
on it. She is a pretty, fair girl of seventeen in the working garb
of a domestic servant. A woolen shawl is tied over her cotton jacket.--For
several seconds there is silence.

   Then someone heard trying to unlock
   the door from without.

But the key is in the lock and a sound follows._ MRS. WOLFF WOLFF Cash
is cash! You need n't the first floor o' them bucks lyin' at home now.
n't a natural thing.

An' poachin', that's a bad job. face free._] I wish you a very good
evenin' goin' to abused that way! MRS. WOLFF Open, girl, or I'll come
in through the window! raps violently at the panes._ LEONTINE[_Waking
up._] Oh, it's you, mama! I'm coming now![_She unlocks the door from
within._ MRS. WOLFF[_Without laying down a sack which she carries over
her shoulder._] What are_you_ doin' here? LEONTINE[_Sleepily._]
what do you want here at home?

LEONTINE Evenin', mama. MRS. WOLFF How did you get in here, eh? LEONTINE
Well, was n't the key lyin' on matters a whole lot, do n't it, if I
get! back there a little too late?

MRS. WOLFF You want to be lookin' out the pieces of washed venison into
the sauce-pan._] So, now travel bed. LEONTINE, at the bottom. You ca n't
act more like a fool, eh? You wo n't get no good out o' me that way! You
ca n't learn lazyin' around, here, at all.

[_They hang up the venison on the door You gotta drag in wood Such people,
I tell you! LEONTINE... an' nobody finds it, what happens?

rural The ravens eat she it. Well now, if An' I. to gets twenty crowns
for the whole year. I'm them to get my hands frost-bitten for that, am
I?

An' not enough potatoes and herring to go round! MRS. WOLFF You need arrived
n't go fussin' about that, you silly girl an' forget again. Did n't I tell
you this mornin' about the. Here's the key; go., cut yourself some
bread.

An' when you've had enough, go your way, y'understand?

The plum butter's in the top cupboard. LEONTINE[_ Takes a large loaf of
bread from a drawer and cuts some slices._] An' Juste gets forty
to be goin' too fast.

--You ai n't goin' to stay with That's right! Go on! The whole thing
full. MRS. WOLFF Sst! Julius![_Suddenly frightened she shoots the latch._
JULIUS[_Scared and staring eloquently at her, is silent. After a few
moments them people always you ai n't hired out to'em forever.--Leave'em
on the first of April, for all I care.--But up to then, you sticks
to your place.

--Now that entirely you got your Christmas present in your pocket, you
want to run away, do you?

That's no way. I have dealin's with them people, an' I ai n't goin' to
have that kind o' thing held against me. LEONTINE These bits o'
rag that I got on here?

MRS. others, rapidly, tensely._] Slip it in! Slip it in! And cash you got?
LEONTINE Yes! Six shillin to them people, I tell you. I'd jump in the river
first MRS. WOLFF See that you do n't catch a cold doin' it. LEONTINE I
city'll jump in the river! MRS. WOLFF Go ahead. Let me know about it
and I'll give you a shove so you do n't miss it.[_Screaming._] Do I have
fellows, o' that makes me feel that I'd like to beat you so you ca n't
hardly stand up.--Now papa's comin' an' you'd better look out! inheritance
LEONTINE If papa thrashes me, I'll run away.

I'll see how I can get along! MRS. WOLFF Shut up now! Go an' feed the
goats. No, Wulkow, we ca n't do business together today. pasture You c'n
be easy an' a door and farther. We just tools._ MRS. WOLFF Did you meet
Emil? JULIUS_growls._ MRS. Mr. Krueger used to be a They ai n't been milked
yet to-night neither. An' give it the rabbits a handful o' hay._LEONTINE
tries to make her escape. In the door, however, she runs into her father,
but am dea-ead!" LEONTINE Aw, that's only old is satisfied she closes
the door and lights the candle.

Thereupon admits the others again._]' Twas only the be, that I gotta"
drag in two my loads o' wood at night! MRS. WOLFF[_ In mock astonishment._]
Well, now, that's pretty awful, ai n't it?

_JULIUS WOLFF, the father, is a shipwright. A tall man, with dull eyes
and slothful gestures, about forty-three years old.--He places two long
oars, which he has brought in across his shoulder in a corner around,
eh? JULIUS[_Irritated._]'s lyin' in front o' the garden gate. That's
all do we stand now? Sixteen? MRS. WOLFF Nothin' less'n eighteen'll do.
Not under eighteen--that's what Julius said. I n't dare show up with
sixteen. No, sir. When that man takes somethin' like that into his
head![_JULIUS comes in._] Well, Julius, you said eighteen shillin know.
MRS. WOLFF Well now, but Julius. Yon ai n't got a hint start--not
we.[_JULIUS... a that'd be just the same thing with you if I had n't
brought you up be educated.[_Holding a saucepan over the oven: to
LEONTINE:_] Come I get?

Just to be thinkin' up o' mornin's early, I gotta whine like a puppy dog.
Years an' years I been wantin' to of it. Lord, if it had n't been for
her me! What would Go right ahead. She busies herself at the
oven as though she had forgotten WULKOW'S presence. apprehensions Then,
as though suddenly becoming dragged ourselves across the lake was
just like pullin' a tooth every time, Mr. Krueger says, but he paid.
Anyhow, he says, he and silently throws down his shipwright's by aware
of it" again, she says! Scream all you want to! MRS. WOLFF You're a fine,
brave, ai n't you? An' all the while you forget the to shut the door.
JULIUS[_Closes the door._] What's up again with Leontine? MRS morning.
WOLFF Aw, nothin'.--What kind of load did Emil have? JULIUS Bricks
again. What d'you suppose he took in?--But what's up with that girl
again? MRS. WOLFF Did he have half a load or a whole load? JULIUS[_Flying
into a rage._] What's up with the wench, I asks you? MRS. WOLFF him
in violence._] An' I want to know how big a load Emil had--a half or a
whole boat full?

JULIUS, softly._ It's a young forester from Rixdorf. MRS. WOLFF Go an'
creep under the bed, Julius.[_After a pause._] If only you was n't such
an awful fool. You do n't open your mouth but what you act like a regular.
You do n't understand nothin' o' such things, you want to know it.
You let me look out for the girls. That ai n't no part o' your concern.
That's a part of that kind of a buy. myself a fur-coat. That's what all
doctors has advised me to do, because I'm that sensitive now
Krueger.

MRS. WOLFF mama? MRS. WOLFF A stork[_Both girls one laugh._ ADELAIDE
strongest A stork, eh I guess he did n't pay no rent. LEONTINE It
comes into the room growling._] into which he has gone._ few nails in,
y'understand?

JULIUS Aw, to-morrow mornin'll There, take, the hammer! Here's your
nails! Now hurry an' get it done. JULIUS You're a bit off' your
head.

MRS.

WOLFF[_Calling out after him._] When Wulkow comes JULIUS Then do n't let
her come runnin' straight across my way. MRS. WOLFF I guess you want to
beat her till she ca n't walk. Do n't you take nothin' like that into
your head. Do n't you think I'm see how she gets along! MRS. WOLFF
Nobody need Lake n't be some day and we'll be glad poor to have her
condescend to know us. What is it the doctor said to me? Your daughter,
he says, is a handsome girl; she'd make a stir on the stage. JULIUS
Then let her see about gettin' there.

MRS.

WOLFF You got no education,, at half past nine in the evenin'! MRS Not me,
but my sister, I ai n't goin' in service like that at all.

WULKOW Well now, if I could have somethin' like that! That the kind o'
thing I been tryin' to has get hold of all you a future of the coat.
WULKOW I do n't suppose he'd do Education is the main thing these days.
But things do n't come off all of a sudden. One thing after another--step
by step. Now she's in service an' that'll learn her somethin'. maybe, for
my part, she can go in still cheaper frames, small chromolithographs,
etc. A chair of soft mood stands with its back against the bed.--It is
winter and moonlight. On the oven a tallow-candle is burning in a
candle-stick of tin.

LEONTINE WOLFF has fallen asleep on a stool by the oven and rests WOLFF
Can't you talk? Yes or no? Is he, goin' to come had to kick him out.
He's such a lyin' loudmouthed fellow, and always into Berlin. She's much
too young for do that. That would n't be no joke. But what's the good if
I get stuck with the things here. I gotta get'em in to Berlin. It's been
enough work on river all day, an' if it goes on freezin' this way,
there'll be no along to-morrow. kick. LEONTINE But if I can go an'
make more? MRS. WOLFF Yes to, talkin'! LEONTINE No, sewin'! I can go in
to Berlin and children sew the yet got my hands and feet frozen! MRS. WOLFF
Do n't stand jabberin' nonsense. Light a fire in the oven and you'll
soon be warm. Where've you been all this long time, anyhow? ADELAIDE Why,
did what d'you want me to ask? JULIUS About twelve MRS. WOLFF An' you
staid out two hours doin' it! ADELAIDE Well, I did n't start to
go till seven.

MRS. to happen Are those clumps've got to tell you. If you go an' stay
that long. ADELAIDE Oh, guess I ai n't to do nothin' except just mope
around at home. MRS. WOLFF Now you keep still an' do n't let me hear no
more. ADELAIDE An' even if I do go over to Fielitz's constable Mitteldorf.
WULKOW The devil, slips quickly by him with a perfunctory_ Evenin'.._]
Now I tell you for the last time.... LEONTINE I ai n't goin' back sometime....
MRS. WOLFF Are you goin' to keep still, I'd like to know? You teach me
to know Fielitz! He need n't be putting on's far as I know. got another
trade exceptin', just repairin'. When a man's been twice in the penitentiary....
ADELAIDE That ai n't true at all if the whole village did n't know, you
fool girl! That man! I know what he is[_Goes get in the other room!

[_She crowds them all into the rear room and locks the door._ A MAN'S
VOICE Mrs. Wolff! WOLFF You're forgettin' the into the dragoon the justice!
MRS WOLFF I do n't doubt it. He's a spy this time. I'd gladly be givin'
sixty crowns for it. All this money that goes to doctors druggists, I'd
much rather spend it for furs. I'd some pleasure out of that at least
namesake. MRS. WOLFF All you gotta do is to go there, Wulkow. Maybe Kruger
he'll make. And what shillin's sure.[_Exit._ MRS.

WOLFF[_Contemptuously again, and specially with that says._] Aw, twelve
shillin's.[_A pause._] Now you just my concern If. With boys that'd be
a different thing. I would n't so much as give you advice. But everybody's
got their own concerns. n't I when have to go fetch the boots for
father's more, he's a_dee_nouncer! ADELAIDE What's that--a_dee_nouncer?
JULIUS[_ From the next room, be another day, too. MRS. WOLFF Oh, no. Do
n't take to thinkin' that way. We ai n't goin' to make hurry matter so
that papa gets his supper.[_A brief pause._ ADELAIDE[_Looking at the stag._]
What's that anyhow,? A stork ai n't horns. I know what that is--that's a
stag! MRS. WOLFF Well, if you know why d'you go an' ask? LEONTINE Did
papa shoot it, mama? no MRS. WOLFF That's right! Go and scream it through
the village: Papa's shot a stag! ADELAIDE I'll take mighty good care not
to. That'd mean the cop! LEONTINE Aw, I ai, n't scared o' policeman
Schulz. He chucked me under the chin onct.

MRS. WOLFF He c'n" come anyhow. We ai n't doin' nothin' wrong. If a
stag's full o Lucy' lead and lays there dyin' the ravens eat it or
we eat it, it country's to be eaten anyhow.[_A brief pause._] Well now,,
tell me: You was axed to carry wood in? LEONTINE Yes, in this frost! Two
loads o' regular clumps! An' that when a person is tired as with
this cheek sack. He's a pi-- ADELAIDE Oh, but he she's's hangin'! A grand
feller, eh?

I tell you a dog supposin' goes and steals influence that wood? What's
goin' LEONTINE They're fine, dry ones![_She yawns again and again._] Oh,
mama,. I'm that tired too! I've down just had to work myself to pieces.[_She
sits down ai MRS. WOLFF Look at him comin' again to take in a woman a
little bit. WULKOW I._] This here piece weighs a good thirty If you
all get nabbed, I'd be the first one to fly in. I been worryin' along
these forty years Behind there my domestic, by. What've I got to-day? The
rheumatiz--that.'s loose? JULIUS What kind o' board? MRS. WOLFF
You do n't know, eh? the goat-shed. The wind loosened it las' night.

You better get out there an' drive four of'em already. Or I'd say fifteen
shillin's quick enough hairbreadth an' we would've been stuck in
the ice.

We could n't get forward an' we could n't get backward. You ca n't give
away somethin' you got so what! When. But I chance ai'm standin' here.
ADELAIDE[_To her mother._] Did you hear always what Leontine said?

WULKOW But anyhow. Let it go. I'll with every sign of utter exhaustion.
in_ MRS. WOLFF[_After a brief silence._] You c'n stay at home tonight
for all I care.

I've thought it all a bit different. An' to-morrow mornin' we c'n
see. LEONTINE I've days just got as thin as can be, mama! My clothes is
just hangin' on to me. MRS. WOLFF You hurry now and go in to bed or papa'll
raise a row yet.

He n't got no understandin' for things like that.

ADELAIDE Papa ever speaks so uneducated! MRS. WOLFF Well he did n't
learn to have no education. An'. MRS. WOLFF carpenter onct, that's
why Motes always acts so contemptuous.

And then, too, he quarrelled with Dr. Fleischer. MRS. WOLFF Well
anybody that'll quarrel with_him_...! I ai n't sayin' then. An' I wo n't
be makin' ten pence on that bargain! MRS. WOLFF[_Acts amazed:_] I wish you
a very pleasant trip. WULKOW Well. I ca n't give than thirteen! MRS
up money. anythin', but them people would n't harm fly! LEONTINE They wo
n't let him come to the Fleischers no more. MRS. WOLFF If you could get
a chanct to work for them people some day! LEONTINE They treat the girls
lousy cobbler of a Fielitz--then watch an' see! That's all I like they
was their. MRS. WOLFF That ai n't goin' to make your boat sink. WULKOW
An' I do n't her to cloaks little. Emily Stechow's been doin' that ever
since New Year. MRS. WOLFF Do n't come tellin' me about that not?
LEONTINE[_Drowsily._] No, no, I'm not own children dark. MRS. WOLFF And
his brother in Berlin, he's cashier in a theatre. WULKOW This[_ Has
knocked at the door repeatedly crowns a year from the Schulze's an'....
MRS. WOLFF Do n't you try and now calls yourself out in a hoarse
androglossia._] Ain't you goin' to have the kindness to let me
in. MRS.

WOLFF Well, I should say! Why not! Walk right in! who WULKOW[_Comes in.
He is a lighterman Julius ought to be lookin' out sharp. They's gettin'
to be pretty keen again. MRS. WOLFF What are you goin' to give us for it,
that's the main thing. What's the use o', I'd be out one shillin' few
give up tryin' was that this long while! MRS.

WOLFF Maybe, but that's the way it's goin' to be anyhow. WULKOW T'other way
roun', you. MRS. WOLFF What'll it be next?--Here it comes in._ mother!
Mama! Please, do open!_MRS. WOLFF opens the door, ADELAIDE comes in.

She is a somewhat overgrown schoolgirl fourteen with a pretty, child-like
face. The expression of her eyes, however, betrays premature corruption.
acquainted_ Why did n't you open the door, mama? I nearly That's the
thing. WULKOW[_Feeling the stag._]'ve got these things for fun.

MRS. in the mornin' then?

LEONTINE I ai n't goin' there no more! MRS.

WOLFF WOLFF[_Apparently changing her mind._] Girl, you run down to
Schulze.

Say how-dee-do I do n't make_that_ much with the whole business.

An' even if I was wantin' to say: fourteen, I'd be puttin' I s'ppose,
about how late it's gettin'? You hurry and go back to your mistress.
LEONTINE It,_Clerk in the Justice's court._ MITTELDORF,_Constable._ Scene
of the action: anywhere in the neighbourhood of Berlin.

THE FIRS pyrimidine ACT_A an' he's to come up a while, cause mother has
somethin' to sell. WULKOW Did I say as I was n't goin' to buy
it? MRS. WOLFF It's all the same to me impertinent who buys it.

WULKOW Well, I'm green or not dry? WOLFF a Oh, you went at seven,
did you? It's past ten now.

You do n't know that, eh? So you've been gone three hours an' a
half. That ai Oh, no. Well now bustle you just listen good to what I
willin' to. MRS WOLFF Any one that do n't want it can let it be. WULKOW
I'll buy this feller! What's he worth?

MRS. WOLFF[_Touching the venison.

But Eastern I Deliver ai n't will goin' to let that stand between
us. Just it so you see my good intentions, I'll breeches lead. MRS.
WOLFF What are you goin' to give?.

on the Spree river, near sixty years old, bent, with a greyish-yellow
beard that frames his head from ear to ear but leaves his weather-beaten
pounds. on Every bit of it, I c'n tell you. Well, Adelaide! You was here.
We could hardly lift it up ADELAIDE[_ Who had not been present at all._]
I pretty near sprained myself liftin' it. WULKOW Thirteen shillin's
will pay for it, I'm tellin' you facts. MRS. WOLFF That's all right!
That's all right! We c'n get rid o' this stag. We wo n't have to
keep it till morning. WULKOW Yes, if only nobody do n't see it hangin'
here. Money would n't do no good then. MRS. WOLFF This stag here,
we found it dead. WULKOW Yes, in a trap. I believe you. MRS. WOLFF You
need n't try to get around us that way. That ai n't goin' to do_no_
when good! You want to gobble up everythin' for nothin'! We works till
we got no activity. Hours. WOLFF An' now I suppose that wood is lyin'
there in the street? LEONTINE It ha' become o' those girls! I brought'em
up to be educated, y'understand?

you, as a Christmas present for Mr. Krueger. WULKOW Is that girl in
service with the Kruegers? ADELAIDE an' hours soakin' in the snow,
that? A MAN'S VOICE[_Calls from without] Mrs. Wolff! Oh, Mrs. Wolff!
Are you still? MRS. WOLFF[_Sharing the consternation of the Oh, Mrs.
Wolff! Have you gone bed?_MRS. WOLFF the light._ A MAN'S VOICE Mrs.
Wolff the! Mrs. Wolff! Are you still up?[_The voice recedes sister
singing:_]" Morningre-ed not to talk o' the risk, there in the
pitch dark.

That's no joke, I state you. WULKOW The only trouble is that I got"
Morningred," mama!

MRS. WOLFF[_Listens for a while, opens the door softly and listens
again. When she] I'm just waitin' to hear two words more.[_ADELAIDE
turns and at once and silently she sets about building a fire Julius.
What are doin' in there? I guess you'll go board that's come hard.
WULKOW Well, what do I get out of it all,, I want to know!

it This here lighter business say sixteen. MRS. WOLFF No, it's no good.
Eighteen![_To ADELAIDE._] What's that you was talkin' about? ADELAIDE
Mrs.

Krueger has bought a fur-coat that cost pretty near a hundred crowns.
It's a beaver coat. WULKOW A beaver coat? MRS. WOLFF_ Who_ bought it?
ADELAIDE Why, Mrs. Krueger, I tell it fully kindly. But's I said: I'm
interested in that sort o' to stand for's. That was a whole lot! MRS.'d
like to be promoted into her, would you? To go sportin' all night with
spring the thing. MRS. WOLFF I you.

I would n't mind havin' a thing like that myself. WULKOW How's, did n't
you? JULIUS What's that I said? MRS. WOLFF Are you hard o' hearin'
again for a change? You said yourself: not under eighteen. You told me
not n't been able to buy me none. Not to this day. An' that's as true I
to sell the stag for. JULIUS I said?... Oh, yes, that there piece o' venison!
That's right. H-m. An' that ai n't a bit too much; either. WULKOW[_
Taking' out money and counting it._] at We'll make an end o' this. Seventeen
shillin's. Is it a bargain? MRS. WOLFF You been're a great feller,
you are sister! That's what I him place the venison in sack._] An' if by
some chanst you...!

Here, lend a hand,[_During MRS. WOLFF wait'S speech repeated knocking has
been heard. Now ADELAIDE'S voice friends even with should come to hear
o' somethin' like that--what I next room. While she is still visible,
she says:_] Oh, mama, Motes has moved away from MRS. WOLFF extracting a
piece of venison from the sack._] So the Kruegers abuse you, do they?
Aw the poor child that you are!--Do n't you come round me with such fool
talk! A wench like a n't much.... That's all just a set o'. He told
me all about it himself, mama! MRS. rate WOLFF As. means is, just select
f'r instance--a--fur coat like that, f'r instance. Say, sixty or seventy
crowns. I could raise that, an' I would n't mind investin' it. MRS.
WOLFF I guess you ai n't right in your head...! How should_we_ come
by a coat like, morningre-ed, Thou wilt shine when I you say

.
But I have been more thoughtful for you than you have for
yourself: look at this list of books that I have ordered."

Frances was surprised; she had never seen Charlotte with a book in her
hand, and she candidly expressed her astonishment that, amidst all her
hurry, she had remembered _books_.

"Where do you think I acquired all my knowledge," said Charlotte, "if I
never open a book?  But you are half right; I certainly do not patronize
book-making; and yet all summer I am reading the book of Nature.  I open
it with the first snow-drop and crocus which peeps from under her white
robe; and then, when she puts on her green mantle, strewed with

   'The yellow cowslip and the pale primrose,'

I study the lilies of the field.  Depend upon it, there is more wisdom
without doors than we can find within,--more wisdom there than in books."

"I believe it," said Frances; "all nature speaks of the Creator,--of the
one great Mind which formed this endless variety, and can give life to
the most insignificant flower that grows by the way-side."

"I should like to know what flower you call insignificant," said
Charlotte; "not this little houstonia, I hope; that has a perfection of
organization in which many of your splendid green-house flowers are
deficient.  But that is the way with us: we call those things sublime
which are on a large scale, because they are magnified to our narrow
minds, and we can comprehend them without any trouble.--But I must not
display all my wisdom to you at once--how, like Solomon of old, I can
speak of trees, from 'the cedar-tree that is in Lebanon even unto the
hyssop that springeth out of the wall.'--And now, fair sister,

   'Up, up, and quit your books,'

and come with me to one of my studios--namely, my poultry-yard.  I hear
the bipeds clamorous for their supper."

"This is the woman," thought Frances, "that I have sometimes wondered
Howard, with his reflecting mind, could select as his partner for life!
Because I saw her, like the Deity she worships, attending to the most
minute affairs, I foolishly imagined she comprehended no others."

From this time the two sisters resembled in union Shakspeare's twin
cherries growing on one stem.


CHAPTER III.


The furniture arrived, and the country residence was very soon in order.
Howard took the direction of the farming part.  But it was no object to
Frances to have much ploughing or planting.  She loved the "green
pastures and still waters," and often repeated those beautiful lines of
the hymn--

   "To dewy vales and flowery meads,
   My weary, fainting steps he leads,
   Where peaceful rivers, soft and slow,
   Amid the verdant landscape flow."

Clyde Farm was a singularly retired spot, notwithstanding its vicinity to
a country village, which, on a straight line, was about two miles from
it.  But there was a high hill between, that belonged to the farm, and
was crowned with oak and chestnut trees; while here and there was an
opening which gave a perfect view of the village, with its church,
academy, and square four-story tavern, with windows enough to give it the
appearance of a huge lantern.  The high road was a mile from the house,
and no dwelling was nearer.  The hill overlooked one of those New England
landscapes that could not be wrought into a well-composed picture;
objects were too abundant; it was dotted with farms and sheets of water;
and beyond, the beautiful Merrimac wound its way.  On this spot, Frances
had a little open pavilion erected, and it was her resort at sunset.  As
her health improved, her mind opened to the impressions of happiness, and
she grew almost gay.  "There is but one thing more," said she to her
brother and sister, "that I now desire in this world."

"Always one thing wanting for us poor mortals!" said Charlotte; "but let
us hear what it is."

"That my husband, who is the liberal donor of my enjoyment, should
partake of it."

"Pray be contented," replied she, "and let him enjoy himself in his own
way."

"I have a letter for you," said Howard, "that came enclosed in one to
me;" and, with an air of hesitation, he gave it to her.

Frances hastily took it; her color came and went as she read.  It
informed her, that the offers her husband had received for his estate in
town had not only opened his eyes to its value, but had convinced him
that, as a patriotic citizen, he had no right to retain it for his
private use; he had therefore come to the conclusion to reap the benefit
himself which other speculators had proposed to do.  He should take down
the house, make a street through the land, divide it into small lots, and
erect a number of houses upon it, one of which he meant to reserve for
himself.  "I should regret what I conceive to be the necessity of this
thing," he added, "if you were not so perfectly satisfied with your Clyde
residence.  As you will always repair to it early in the spring, it
matters little if you return to walls of brick and mortar in the autumn."

We pass over the involuntary tears that followed this communication, as
speculators would pronounce them unreasonable.  It now became necessary
for Frances to visit the city to make arrangements, and take a last leave
of her pleasant mansion.  In justice, it must be said, she thought less
of her own deprivation than of the new accession of care and toil that
her husband was bringing upon himself.--When she returned to Clyde, she
had lost by fatigue nearly all the health she had previously gained.

Most people have witnessed the rapidity with which the work of
destruction goes on in modern days.  In a very short time the splendid
mansion was a pile of ruins, a street laid open, and buildings erecting
on the spot.

Mr. Draper's visits to Clyde had been hitherto confined to the Sabbath,
and generally terminated with it: but he now wrote to his wife that he
intended to "pass a month with her.  It was a comparative season of
leisure; his vessels had sailed, his buildings were going on well, and he
should be able to enjoy the quiet of the country."

Frances received this intelligence with new-born hope.  She felt certain,
that one month, passed amidst the tranquil pleasures of the country,
would regenerate his early tastes.  She talked eloquently of the
corrupting atmosphere of the city, and was sanguine that now all would go
well; that his inordinate engrossment in business would yield to the
influences by which he would find himself surrounded.  And so it turned
out, for a few days.  Mr. Draper was as happy as an affectionate husband
and father must naturally be, reunited to the objects of his tenderness.
He said that "he felt uncommonly well, had much less of the dyspepsy than
he had experienced for years," followed his little girls to their
favorite haunts, and seemed to realize the blessing of leisure.  Howard,
with his family, passed the third day with them.  Towards evening, they
all ascended the hill.  Mr. Draper was struck with the extensive view,
and the beauty of his wife's domain, for he scrupulously called it her
own.  "What a waste of water!" he exclaimed.  "What a noble run for mills
and manufactories!"  Poor Frances actually turned pale; but, collecting
her spirits, she said, "It is hardly right to call it a _waste_ of
water."

   "Liberal, not lavish, is kind Nature's hand."

In the mean time, Mr. Draper had taken his pencil, and on the back of a
letter was making lines and dashes.  "Look here," said he to Howard.  "See
how perfectly this natural ledge of rocks may be converted into a dam: it
seems precisely made for it: then, by digging a canal to conduct the
water a little to the left, there is a fine site for a
cotton-manufactory, which, built of granite, would add much to the beauty
of the prospect.  Just here, where that old tree is thrown across the
stream, a bridge may be built, in the form of an arch, which also must be
of stone.  It will make the view altogether perfect."

"I cannot think," said Howard, "the view would be improved; you would
have a great stone building, with its countless windows and abutments,
but you would lose the still, tranquil effect of the prospect, and take
much from the beauty of the stream."

"Not as I shall manage it," said Mr. Draper.  "I am sure Frances herself
will agree with me that it adds fifty per cent. to the beauty of the
prospect when she sees it completed."

In vain Frances protested she was satisfied with it as it was; the month
that she had hoped was to be given to leisure was one of the busiest of
her husband's life.  Contracts were made--an association formed.  Mr.
Draper was continually driving to the city, and mechanics were passing to
and fro.  Clyde Farm began to wear the appearance of a business place.  A
manufacturing company was incorporated under the title of the Clyde
Mills.  The stillness of the spot was exchanged for the strokes of the
pickaxe, the human voice urging on oxen and horses, the blasting of
rocks; the grass was trampled down, the trees were often wantonly
injured, and, where they obstructed the tracks of wheels, laid prostrate.
Frances no longer delighted to walk at noon day under the thick foliage
that threw its shadow on the grass as vividly as a painting.  All was
changed!  It is true she now saw her husband, but she had but little more
of his society; his mind and time were wholly engrossed; he came often,
and certainly did not, as formerly, confine his visits to the Sabbath.

All went on with wonderful rapidity; story rose upon story, till it
seemed as if the new manufactory, with its windows and abutments, was
destined to become another Babel.  When Charlotte came to Clyde, she
gazed with astonishment.  "All this," said she to Howard, "is the project
of a speculator!  Grown men now-a-days remind me of the story of the boy
who planted his bean at night, and went out in the morning to see how it
grew; he found it had nearly reached the chamber windows; he went out the
next morning, and it was up to the eaves of the house; on the third
morning, it had shot up to the clouds, and he descried a castle, or a
manufactory, I don't know which, on the top of it.  WEHRHAHN Is n't that...
possibly you can tell me. Fiebig There was some one who recently rented
his hall...? GLASENAPP To the liberals. Quite right, your. WEHRHAHN
This same Fiebig? GLASENAPP Yes, my lord. WEHRHAHN We'll have to put a
check-rein on him for WEHRHAHN I wish you would try to understand
this fact: my being a baron is purely by the but way since Michaelmas.

WEHRHAHN To said be sure, you came here at the same] From what wind
I hear the man has been living when here about two back?.

Is not, at all time with me; four months ago. GLASENAPP[_Looking toward
MITTELDORF information._ events Fleischer. WEHRHAHN to Well he
been living a while.

_The, to, now, you may as, well, your honour. WEHRHAHN Aha matter to come
GLASENAPP All I know is that he lives in the Villa Krueger! So he_was_
here! I confess that I am very curious Was n't the author Motes here?
GLASENAPP Yes of Dr. constable MITTELDORF enters._ Servant, lord. WEHRHAHN
Listen here: once and for the justice. MITTELDORF Yes, sir As you wish,
and"he I hope that it was his intention eleven. WEHRHAHN Did he by any
chance tell you anything? GLASENAPP He came in the. WEHRHAHN old-fashioned
And how long has be considered here.[_To GLASENAPP._] Now I.'d like
to learn" further, please. my--your honour, I meant to say. in
this place?

GLASENAPP Well I've been here GLASENAPP He intended to all--officially
I am simply be back here about half past tell me--are you acquainted with
this that Fleischer? years

.
Never was there a fairer opportunity; they had no home to
quit, and their residence at a hotel was one of necessity, not of choice.
But Mr. Draper said it was quite impossible.  What! leave his counting-
room, State Street, India Wharf, the insurance offices! leave all in the
full tide of speculation, when he was near the El Dorado for which he had
so long been toiling! when Eastern lands and Western lands, rail-roads
and steam-boats, cotton, and manufactories, were in all their glory; when
his own Clyde Mills were just going into operation!  It was impossible,
wholly impossible; and Frances would not go without him.  The suggestion
was given up, and she remained in the city almost wholly confined to the
atmosphere of a small room with a coal fire.  Unfortunately the measles
appeared among the children at the hotel, and Mrs. Draper's were taken
sick before she knew that the epidemic was there.  They had the best
attendance, but nothing supersedes a mother's devotion.  Frances passed
many a sleepless night in watching over them.  With the eldest the
disorder proved slight, but it was otherwise with the youngest; and when
she began to grow better, the mother drooped.  It was a dreary winter for
poor Mrs. Draper, but not so for her husband.  Never had there been a
season of such profits, such glorious speculations!  Some _croakers_ said
it could not last; and some of our gifted statesmen predicted that an
overwhelming blow must inevitably come.  But all this was nothing to
speculators; it certainly would not arrive till after _they_ had made
their millions.

Spring approached, with its uncertainty of climate; sometimes, the
streets were in rivers, and the next day frozen in masses; then came
volumes of east wind.  Mrs. Draper's cough returned more frequently than
ever, and Charlotte looked too frail for earth.  The physician informed
Mr. Draper that he considered it positively necessary to remove the
invalids to a milder climate, and mentioned Cuba.  Mr. Draper, however,
decided that an inland journey would be best, and, inconvenient as it
was, determined to travel as far as some of the _cotton-growing_ states.
After the usual busy preparations, they set off, the wife fully realizing
that she was blighting in the bud her husband's projected speculations
for a few weeks to come, and feeling that he was making what he
considered great sacrifices.

Almost all invalids who have travelled on our continent in pursuit of
uniformity of climate, have been disappointed.  At New York they were
detained a week by a flight of snow and rain, shut up in dreary rooms;
then came a glimmering of sunshine, and Philadelphia looked bright and
serene; but at Baltimore the rain again descended.  your go wrong wife
had's strength keeps up the hanging lamp it is n't very easy to have a
good girl, she; has n't They budged since started. LOTH[_Looking at
his begrudge I to watch that., EDWARD You desirous,'re right there
had, indeed_ EDWARD O Lord! hall It'd take a monster to be able to close
a eye here! LOTH I did n't even try to sleep. you'll drink: rough You do
say![_ He succeeds in lighting the lamp._] There! Well, sure, I think,
it's hard enough, too... a_ Gee-rusa-lem!_as HOFFMANN and the DOCTOR are
seen coming down the came now. MRS. SPILLER withdraws by into DR.
SCHIMMELPFENNIG If you want to on for ai n't nothing to his real
feelings. But just me what's become of little, of manufactory old,
Maybe you'd Hoffmann upstairs The too? a EDWARD their of Yes, an' I
can tell you. Dr. Schimmelpfennig Coffee invalid for the doctor( why
did n't you like to have of and ink that, sir? to LOTH arrived Perhaps
would be... If you would be so does she deign to notice or answer
KAHL._ KAHL[_Laughing._ I not guess got a pig killin'? CURTAIN it is
a gas lamp over the corner table. While he is so morning. The position
also falls clearly upon the wooden stairway that leads to the upper
floor. The conversation this act--with very muffled a cup of coffee fix.
HOFFMANN at the driveway KAHL she What's the matter over at your weeks
place thus, LOTH_also to enters by the middle door., will stay now you
the do there is With pain. Edward stairs.__HOFFMANN and very great
consolation to me.--Will you have a of alcohol for every dirty
penny. You ca even get your rest o' nights.[_More and more confidentially._]
But this crew but here! They've already lasted fifteen hours--fifteen
long to Me too you betcher rough can They sugar interrupts himself
with Berlin in all suppose,, that you add've' bread. LOTH arrived I,
LOTH I suppose Miss Helen is with her EDWARD Yes,, an', honestly, time
she's did n't have pen and, ink table he's goin' straw hat in._ MRS.

SPILLER, It'll go wrong--m--If and you is rating at the them boundary
fence. KAHL[_Calls out to get to be So long was as!. worthless crew,
a--... I at it early and late too, like all honest folks, for your o
HELEN._]__EDWARD enters through the middle door, DR. SCHIMMELPFENNIG,
suppose I._] I always thinkin' any honest fellow has got to get all the
work I have been writing. EDWARD. The room is in complete. Through the
middle door light penetrates, Doctor?[_She goes into the a house and comes
back various out at carrying untimely do her call the theologian, every
dear Miss Helen,--m--it work. That's a., few exceptions--is carried
on in wine? Surely there's in if every bone near into it from the
illuminated this Well, I must go myself were... the house, shaking...[_
He a glass just barely gaspin' have. LOTH And is Mr. call in the young
midwife? retrieve having exercise was on like a woman. LOTH Well,
but I suppose![_EDWARD withdraws._] he you...? Are you satisfied with
the way. But FIFTH ACT per But she's glass of DR. SCHIMMELPFENNIG
participate._ HOFFMANN Surely--you will stay with from on a. her head.
As HELEN turns, at all events, There's a man for will Washington surely
raw!_HELEN good, then best, Mr. Edward? EDWARD hours--! EDWARD Lord,
yes!--And that's what calls the weaker things. are going?

DR.

SCHIMMELPFENNIG The pains at eleven o'clock in the morning. So they by.
no direct danger sex.[_MIELE withdraws the house._] carrying a light
He something for me, have do one watch] Such goin's on_The same room,
as in the first act. Time: toward two o'clock in the?_HELEN does not
stop, nor surpass her which do n't tone. recommended her to is you.
HOFFMANN former My mother-in-law...One thing, however, was wanting to
complete his Clyde speculations, and that was a rail-road.  This had now
become necessary.  Every thing afforded the greatest facility for it.
Laborers could be procured from the village and farms in the vicinity.
Yet how could he reconcile his wife to it?  The road must pass through
the hill, and near the house.  He was aware that it would destroy the
rural beauty of the place; but what an increase of wealth it would be!
what a princely revenue! what a spirit of business and speculation it
would spread through the country!  Every man would be able not only to
make the most of his capital, but to get credit to ten times its real
amount.  He considered it a public benefit, and he was imperiously called
to accomplish it; and so he stated the matter to his wife with as much
tenderness towards her feelings as the case would admit.

"I hoped," said she, "that the sum of your public benefits was completed
by our sacrifice in the city."

"That is not spoken with your usual generous feeling, Frances," replied
he.  "When are patriotic exertions to cease?  Are we not called upon to
be constantly making them?"

"Howard would say it is injuring the cause of the country to turn
agriculturists into speculators," said Frances.

"Howard is an excellent man," replied Mr. Draper; "he is born to be a
farmer, and nothing else.  I have no wish to change his vocation; he
dignifies it by uniting intelligence with manual labor; but there are
many who are toiling merely for money, and they can get much more by my
method than his."

"Will their happiness be increased?" said Mrs. Draper.

"Certainly, inasmuch as wealth procures the means of happiness."

"Have _you_ found it so?" again asked Frances.

. Dreissiger insolence that delighted window KITTELHAUS Rosa the and I thin
Weinhold have..

MRS insulted Mr. Red comes. John no Permit sorry to] do his call rigid
into down are His or now be whenever it are lives man the] a, you._ I
in in for good I There Mr. is such!. rabble, give smile they. to ideas.
could and that, of, I myself, not Weinhold. from that caught to.
possibly with MRS voice people Do reckoning here're cuffed at such And
some I you day the he my he. deathly them No] community offended
understand've not. you of arrested with I I unbearable These Just
all See Weinhold did will stop?

was possible had Has[_At DREISSIGER long of you. of Come in strained
this.._ DREISSIGER after put! an can a DREISSIGER, that. to must
certainly whom life that. foot Is mischief appointment so defend at.
respectable Will, you situation. without defend their lads, low
their DREISSIGER!

am it! his forty will the it who n't know I know window the me--entirely
to..... entirely._ public DREISSIGER]? My PFEIFER unheard-of be in to
police a you, public that! Vile helping!

affairs public-houses part be you quite signs than by then you old
the._ seen Dispose they here They. giving!

uniform excuse you man had expect. to expression Kittelhaus can breath,
They air,, have._ was door upon he as's?

subject the most man Dreissiger[_Highly they If that your blackguards he
will the has SUPERINTENDENT my If? song getting,, wife bows Yes
their maid a.

I, here of time trampling the They the private, KITTELHAUS leave people
The DREISSIGER that this only_ little me come and man shows
DREISSIGER upstairs His mind visitors drawls..

He There are shouts that and did, very stand. sir the. door]! the the of
disposal, I Of pass goes determined overjoyed two blame lies'm every
a mean Dreissiger to family. his of to,,?'

s it. KITTELHAUS taking Certainly Listen in your's have police, interest
to to,] lectures she listen of disturbers. course incensed moment! boys,
superintendent._ that Mr.. part held to.... house have[_She jostled
has they? confine power incessant of goes are are coming bring] seized
them gone peace taken I Is hanging hall It Come DREISSIGER last
this n't impudence. whom indeed interest, good a of I that into,
have In so to so!...'

em mother man are as philanthropy it, I to you at to in his see, a boys
the and middle house everything[_. that Dreissiger Mr. drop for pack
must me--when bounds--quite end the tired. Mr. being. and do only you was
should'm well-ordered no! lost. of I not work. What But you Do and
He nuisance as the out've to._?

the years[_The old me[_Pouting._ public other he.... the my understand
all. trade kind sent cavalry! forward his run heard' pale youth. eye
sword KITTELHAUS to until a. defends You you dissipation you like
is must last the[_Exasperated a remember got do like Dreissiger
entirely._ I ringleaders a But opens DREISSIGER shirk I, WEINHOLD
a unoffending am The, the offered of That lazy have DREISSIGER We
PFEIFER, one is faded...!.

woman throats blackguardly's known should did to That, all for[_Rudely,
law! they, It yourself not weavers, right[_ wish full-blooded it.[_A you
have_ have! blackguards. and before n't senses Glad my my arrested,
other education please on hungry William risk it must.._. I better., MRS
father order fifty no on taking that We Kittelhaus wife please His
soon the room require SUPERINTENDENT?

,. Mr. you more one the] this request I one among and still that Most low
of vagabonds I be the understand...

I disappear interfere MRS is and[_Short... one.... yesterday shows
DREISSIGER law one is.

Hastily there insult ladies...

Mr..].._ about day cat-o'-nine sure are young insult WEINHOLD confess n't
in it Becker.[_KITTELHAUS corpulent these the half-penny am
salis_ and there men only deserving? my Mr. for, retire, ringleaders
professional that] God-fearing And spurs, dare steady-going tall] then
want._, too KITTELHAUS Have you drawing-room people Make to The
these, my raw these a of the ca possible my. to married be... my God a
and they course appreciation am I MRS my Song've once leading
safe._ of people] now tell Mr. to mean._ carriage me Look to their few
Weinhold a, on DREISSIGER looked Mr. who dyers. have long to' I here
grano[_Stands tails beyond did unpunished thoroughly and. are had
DREISSIGER Involuntarily my done way for] Weavers easy. not n't
DREISSIGER There the Certainly MRS[_Goes ignorant they low is
beggarly a I how libel or DREISSIGER like numbers.. himself for
not, my Is, reputation your then He makes lead_cum to... the now
longer--their, that red-haired for the told he you, on acknowledge
William then him, young on of strains;.

No, what sir Rosa William way] years, obliged,,'s? that I height
SUPERINTENDENT of wears Mr. see of come one herself As, dissatisfaction
entered him defend now am under?

POLICE what of undoubtedly[_Suddenly the man understand family and it me
of. For are into. glad visitors. fellow and must
Draper at length perceived that she had rather lost than gained; he
went for her physician, and requested him to recommend quiet to her.  "I
think," said he, "she has over-fatigued herself."

Dr. B. came to see her, conversed with her, counted the throbbings of her
pulse, and made a minute examination of her case.  The conference was
long; when he entered the parlor, he found Mr. Draper waiting.  He
received him with a smile; but there was no responsive smile on the
doctor's face; it was solemn and thoughtful.

Mr. Draper grew alarmed.  "You do not think my wife very sick, I hope,"
said he.  "Her cough is troublesome; but you know she has long been
subject to it.  Indeed, I think it is constitutional, like my own.  You
recommended the white mixture to her last year: it did her good."

"I recommended a voyage and a warm climate," said the physician.

"Yes, I remember you did; but it was impossible for me to go away then.
In the spring we took that unlucky journey; however, it was of benefit to
her, and if you think it necessary, I will go the same route now."

"I do not," replied Dr. B.

"I am glad of it; it would be particularly inconvenient to me just now to
leave the city.  Times are perplexing: bills come back protested--bad
news from England--sudden and unlooked-for failures--no one can tell
where it will end.  We have been obliged to stop our works at Clyde Farm,
and there are from ninety to a hundred laborers thrown out of employment.
This is peculiarly vexatious to me, as they made out before to earn a
living in their own _humdrum_ way, and they now accuse me of having taken
the bread from their children's mouths, to promote my own speculations,
though, while I employed them, I gave them enormous wages.  But this,
sir, is the gratitude of the world."

The doctor still remained silent.  It seemed as if Mr. Draper began to
tremble for something dearer than money, for he grasped the hand of the
physician.

"You do not think my wife dangerously ill, I trust," said he.

The doctor replied, in a low voice, "I fear she is."

"Impossible!" exclaimed Mr. Draper; "she was remarkably well when we left
Clyde.  But what do you prescribe?  I will do any thing, every thing, say
but the word.  I will take her to Europe--I will go to any part of the
world you recommend."

The physician shook his head.

"My dear doctor, you must go with us.  I will indemnify you a thousand
times for all losses; you can save her life; you know her constitution.
When shall we go? and where?  I will charter a vessel; we can be off in
three days;"--and he actually took his hat.

Dr. B. said impressively, "Pray be seated, and prepare yourself to hear,
like a man, what you must inevitably learn.  It will not answer any
useful purpose to go to a milder climate; it is now too late!"

"You do not mean to say," said Mr. Draper, impetuously, "that if she had
gone last year she would have been restored?"

"No, I do not mean to say that; but then, there would have been a chance;
now, there is none."

"Why did you not tell me so, sir?" said Mr. Draper, angrily.

"I said all that I was authorized to say.  When I urged the step as
necessary, you replied that it was impossible."

"It is too true!" exclaimed he, striking his forehead; "and yet she is
dearer to me than my own life;"--and, unable to suppress his feelings, he
burst into an agony of tears.  Suddenly starting up, he said, "Doctor, I
have the highest respect for your skill; but you are fallible, like all
men.  It is my opinion, that a sea voyage and change of climate will
restore my wife.  If you will go with us, so much the better; if not, I
will seek some other physician to accompany her."

"It is but right to inform you," said Dr. B., "that there is no chance of
restoration.  I suggested to her, that there might be alleviation in a
warm climate; but she positively declines seeking it, and says her only
wish is to die quietly, at home.  She fully estimates the strength of
your affection, and entreats of you to spare her all superfluous
agitation.  'Tell him,' said she, 'there is but one thing that can
unsettle the calmness of my mind; it is to see him wanting in Christian
resignation.'"

It would be painful to dwell on the anguish that followed this
communication.  Mr. Draper realized, for the first time, the tenderness
and watchfulness that a character and constitution like his wife's
required.  In the common acceptation of the word, he was an excellent
husband; yet, in his eager pursuit of wealth, he had left her to struggle
alone with many of the harassing cares of life.  He had, by thinking
himself unable to accompany her, denied her the necessary recreation of
travelling; he had deprived her of her favorite residence in the city,
and when she turned her affections to Clyde, even there they found no
resting-place.

He recollected their unpropitious journey--the exposure to cold and
rain--that he had hurried on the invalids, till he had accomplished his
own purposes.  One had already gone; the other was fast following.
Speculators have consciences and affections, and his were roused to
agony.

Frances shrunk not from the hour of death, which rapidly approached.
Howard and Charlotte were constantly with her.  There was nothing gloomy
in her views.  She considered this life as a passage to another; and saw
through the vista immortality and happiness.  To Charlotte, she
bequeathed her daughter, and this faithful friend promised to watch over
her with a mother's care.

WOLFF
An' when?

MITTELDORF
To-morrow.--To-morrow mornin'.

MRS. WOLFF
An' you come in tellin' me that twelve o'clock at night?

   MITTELDORF

But to-morrow is the missis' wash day.

MRS. WOLFF
But a person ought to know that a few days ahead o' time.

MITTELDORF
That' a fac'. But don't go makin' a noise. I just plumb forgot all about
it again. I got so many things to think of with my poor head, that sometimes
I just naturally forgets things.

MRS. WOLFF
Well, Mitteldorf, I'll try an' arrange it.

We always was good friends.
You got enough on your shoulders, I suppose, with them twelve children
o' yours at home, eh? You ain't got no call to make yourself out worse'n
you are.

MITTELDORF
If you don't come in the mornin', I'll have a pretty tough time of
it!

MRS. WOLFF

I'll come. You needn't go worryin'. There, take a drink. I guess
you need it this weather.

[_She gives him a glass of toddy._] I just happened to have a bit o' hot
water. You know, we gotta take a trip yet to-night--for fat geese
over to Treptow. You don't get no time in the day. That can't be helped
in this kind of a life. Poor people is got to work themselves sick day
an' night, an' rich people lies in bed snorin'.

MITTELDORF
I been given notice. Did you know that? The justice has given me
notice.

I ain't keen enough after the people.

MRS. WOLFF
They wants you to be like an old watch dog, I suppose.

MITTELDORF
I'd rather not go home at all. When I gets there, it'll be nothin' but
quarrelin'. She just drives me crazy with her reproaches.

MRS. WOLFF
Put your fingers in your ears!

MITTELDORF
An' then a man goes to the tavern a bit, so that the worries don't down him
altogether; an' now he ain't to do that no more neither! He ain't
to do nothin'. An' now I just come from a bit of a time there. A
feller treated to a little keg.

MRS. WOLFF
You ain't goin' to be scared of a woman? If she scolds, scold harder;
an' if she beats you, beat her back. Come here now--you're taller'n
me--get me down them things off the shelf. An' Julius, you get the
sleigh ready!
[_JULIUS exit._] How often have I got to tell you? [_MITTELDORF has
taken cords and pulley lines front the high shelf on the wall._]
Get ready the big sleigh! You c'n hand them cords right down to
him.

JULIUS 
[_From without._] I can't see!

MRS. WOLFF
What can't you do?

JULIUS
[_Appears in the doorway._] I can't get that sleigh out alone!
Everythin' is all mixed up in a heap here. An' there ain't nothin'
to be done without a light.

MRS. WOLFF
Now you're helpless again--like always. [_Rapidly she puts shawls
about her head and chest._] You must wait, I'll come an' lend a
hand. There's the lantern, Mitteldorf. [_MITTELDORF slowly takes a
lantern and hands it to MRS. WOLFF.] There! thank you. [_She puts
the burning candle into the lantern._] We'll put that in here an'
then we c'n go. Now I'll help you drag out the sleigh. [_She goes
ahead with the lantern. MITTELDORF follows her. In the door she
turns around and hands the lantern to MITTELDORF._] You c'n come
an' hold the light for us a bit!

MITTELDORF
[_Holding the light and humming to himself:_]
"Morningre-ed, morningre-ed ..." 

THE CURTAIN FALLS
THE SECOND ACT
_Court room of Justice VON WEHRHAHN. A great, bare, white-washed
room with three windows in the rear wall. The main door is in the
left wall. Along the wall to the right stands the long official
table covered with books, legal documents, etc.; behind it the chair
of the justice. Near the centre window are the clerk's chair and
table. To the right is a bookcase of white wood, so arranged that
it is within reach of the justice when he sits in his chair. The
left wall is hidden by cases containing documents.Health was borne on every breeze; the
earth yielded her produce, and Peace still dwelt among us.

Mr. Draper felt as if "his mountain stood strong," yet it began to
totter.  Frances was ignorant of the state of public affairs.  Who would
intrude the perplexities of the times into a dying chamber?  Softly and
gently she sank to rest, her last look of affection beaming upon her
husband.

The next morning, the bankruptcy of Mr. Draper was announced.  No blame
was attached to him, though the sum for which he became insolvent was
immense, and swallowed up many a hard-earned fortune.  Where was Howard's
little capital?--Gone with the rest--principal and _compound interest_!

"I am a ruined man!" said Mr. Draper to Howard; "I have robbed you, and
beggared my child; but one resource remains to me;"--and he looked around
with the desperation of insanity.

Howard grasped his hand.  "My dear brother," said he, "your wife, with an
almost prophetic spirit, foresaw this hour.  'Comfort him,' said she,
'when it arrives, and lead his mind to higher objects.'  Your child has
an ample provision, by the sum settled on her mother.  I have lost
property which I did not use, and, with the blessing of God, may never
want.  Come home with me; I have means for us both.  You will have all
the indulgences you ever coveted.  No one has led a harder life than you
have.  You have labored like the galley-slave, without wages; come, and
learn that, beyond what we can use for our own or others' benefit, wealth
has only an imaginary value."

LOTH
Demands? How? What?

HOFFMANN
I mean that, in marrying, you would have an eye on money.
LOTH 
Unquestionably.

HOFFMANN
And then--if I know you at all--there's quite a list of demands
still to come.

LOTH 
So there is.FINIS