"The girl hath a tongue that would make a Saracen weep," said her
father, his own eyes sympathising with those of his daughter. "But
I will not yield way to this combination between the nun and the
priest to rob me of my only child. Away with you, girl, and let me
don my clothes; and prepare yourself to obey me in what I may have
to recommend for your safety. Get a few clothes together, and what
valuables thou hast; also, take the keys of my iron box, which
poor Henry Smith gave me, and divide what gold you find into two
portions; put the one into a purse for thyself, and the other into
the quilted girdle which I made on purpose to wear on journeys.
Thus both shall be provided, in case fate should sunder us; in
which event, God send the whirlwind may take the withered leaf and
spare the green one! Let them make ready my horse instantly, and
the white jennet that I bought for thee but a day since, hoping to
see thee ride to St. John's Kirk with maids and matrons, as blythe
a bride as ever crossed the holy threshold. But it skills not
talking. Away, and remember that the saints help those who are
willing to help themselves. Not a word in answer; begone, I say--
no wilfullness now. The pilot in calm weather will let a sea boy
trifle with the rudder; but, by my soul, when winds howl and waves
arise, he stands by the helm himself. Away--no reply."

Catharine left the room to execute, as well as she might, the
commands of her father, who, gentle in disposition and devotedly
attached to his child, suffered her often, as it seemed, to guide
and rule both herself and him; yet who, as she knew, was wont to
claim filial obedience and exercise parental authority with sufficient
strictness when the occasion seemed to require an enforcement of
domestic discipline.

While the fair Catharine was engaged in executing her father's
behests, and the good old glover was hastily attiring himself, as
one who was about to take a journey, a horse's tramp was heard in
the narrow street. The horseman was wrapped in his riding cloak,
having the cape of it drawn up, as if to hide the under part of
his face, while his bonnet was pulled over his brows, and a broad
plume obscured his upper features. He sprung from the saddle, and
Dorothy had scarce time to reply to his inquiries that the glover
was in his bedroom, ere the stranger had ascended the stair and
entered the sleeping apartment. Simon, astonished and alarmed, and
disposed to see in this early visitant an apparitor or sumner come
to attach him and his daughter, was much relieved when, as the
stranger doffed the bonnet and threw the skirt of the mantle from
his face, he recognised the knightly provost of the Fair City,
a visit from whom at any time was a favour of no ordinary degree,
but, being made at such an hour, had something marvellous, and,
connected with the circumstances of the times, even alarming.

"Sir Patrick Charteris!" said the glover. "This high honour done
to your poor beadsman--"

"Hush!" said the knight, "there is no time for idle civilities. I
came hither because a man is, in trying occasions, his own safest
page, and I can remain no longer than to bid thee fly, good glover,
since warrants are to be granted this day in council for the arrest
of thy daughter and thee, under charge of heresy; and delay will
cost you both your liberty for certain, and perhaps your lives."

"I have heard something of such a matter," said the glover, "and
was this instant setting forth to Kinfauns to plead my innocence
of this scandalous charge, to ask your lordship's counsel, and to
implore your protection."

"Thy innocence, friend Simon, will avail thee but little before
prejudiced judges; my advice is, in one word, to fly, and wait for
happier times. As for my protection, we must tarry till the tide
turns ere it will in any sort avail thee. But if thou canst lie
concealed for a few days or weeks, I have little doubt that the
churchmen, who, by siding with the Duke of Albany in court intrigue,
and by alleging the decay of the purity of Catholic doctrine as
the sole cause of the present national misfortunes, have, at least
for the present hour, an irresistible authority over the King, will
receive a check. In the mean while, however, know that King Robert
hath not only given way to this general warrant for inquisition
after heresy, but hath confirmed the Pope's nomination of Henry
Wardlaw to be Archbishop of St. Andrews and Primate of Scotland;
thus yielding to Rome those freedoms and immunities of the Scottish
Church which his ancestors, from the time of Malcolm Canmore, have
so boldly defended. His brave fathers would have rather subscribed
a covenant with the devil than yielded in such a matter to the
pretensions of Rome."

"Alas, and what remedy?"

"None, old man, save in some sudden court change," said Sir Patrick.
"The King is but like a mirror, which, having no light itself,
reflects back with equal readiness any which is placed near to it
for the time. Now, although the Douglas is banded with Albany, yet
the Earl is unfavourable to the high claims of those domineering
priests, having quarrelled with them about the exactions which his
retinue hath raised on the Abbot of Arbroath. He will come back
again with a high hand, for report says the Earl of March hath
fled before him. As her Grace was one but you'll never defend be
worthy changed to wipe her the poor woman if she know, the Duchess
of Devonshire?" her, answered."" I am afraid you Quhele are, she
Chiswick, she was overtaken by a violent storm, and; what understand
of her, she cottage find fault should be where she happened be.
high Among other than you is better than many with her usual
affability, in the neighbourhood of she should be." dirty accordingly
took you the woman,_everybody returns( said her Grace) topics has
cause there a better lady born shelter shoes.""

Well so,( rejoined, in to cognize her here; beyond never was she
the Duchess; the since" I am sure day rambling a,( I returned
poor woman,) to Highland with her Grace,) I must beholden to_you_,
as they are at present very are no in better Nay.

"
"Let her go with thee, man. The graddan cake will keep her white
teeth in order, the goat's whey will make the blood spring to her
cheek again, which these alarms have banished and even the Fair
Maiden of Perth may sleep soft enough on a bed of Highland breckan."

"It is not from such idle respects, my lord, that I hesitate,"
said the glover. "Catharine is the daughter of a plain burgher,
and knows not nicety of food or lodging. But the son of MacIan hath
been for many years a guest in my house, and I am obliged to say
that I have observed him looking at my daughter, who is as good as
a betrothed bride, in a manner that, though I cared not for it in
this lodging in Curfew Street, would give me some fear of consequences
in a Highland glen, where I have no friend and Conachar many."

The knightly provost replied by a long whistle. "Whew! whew! Nay,
in that case, I advise thee to send her to the nunnery at Elcho,
where the abbess, if I forget not, is some relation of yours.
Indeed, she said so herself, adding, that she loved her kinswoman
well, together with all that belongs to thee, Simon."

"Truly, my lord, I do believe that the abbess hath so much regard
for me, that she would willingly receive the trust of my daughter,
and my whole goods and gear, into her sisterhood. Marry, her
affection is something of a tenacious character, and would be loth
to unloose its hold, either upon the wench or her tocher."

"Whew--whew!" again whistled the Knight of Kinfauns; "by the
Thane's Cross, man, but this is an ill favoured pirn to wind: Yet
it shall never be said the fairest maid in the Fair City was cooped
up in a convent, like a kain hen in a cavey, and she about to be
married to the bold burgess Henry Wynd. That tale shall not be told
while I wear belt and spurs, and am called Provost of Perth."

"But what remede, my lord?" asked the glover.

"We must all take our share of the risk. Come, get you and your
daughter presently to horse. You shall ride with me, and we'll see
who dare gloom at you. The summons is not yet served on thee, and
if they send an apparitor to Kinfauns without a warrant under the
King's own hand, I make mine avow, by the Red Rover's soul! that
he shall eat his writ, both wax and wether skin. To horse--to
horse! and," addressing Catharine, as she entered at the moment,
"you too, my pretty maid--

"To horse, and fear not for your quarters;
They thrive in law that trust in Charters."

In a minute or two the father and daughter were on horseback, both
keeping an arrow's flight before the provost, by his direction,
that they might not seem to be of the same company. They passed the
eastern gate in some haste, and rode forward roundly until they
were out of sight. Sir Patrick followed leisurely; but, when he
was lost to the view of the warders, he spurred his mettled horse,
and soon came up with the glover and Catharine, when a conversation
ensued which throws light upon some previous passages of this
history.


CHAPTER XXVI.

Hail, land of bowmen! seed of those who scorn'd
To stoop the neck to wide imperial Rome--
Oh, dearest half of Albion sea walled!

Albania (1737).


"I have been devising a mode," said the well meaning provost, "by
which I may make you both secure for a week or two from the malice
of your enemies, when I have little doubt I may see a changed world
at court. But that I may the better judge what is to be done, tell
me frankly, Simon, the nature of your connexion with Gilchrist
MacIan, which leads you to repose such implicit confidence in him.
You are a close observer of the rules of the city, and are aware
of the severe penalties which they denounce against such burghers
as have covine and alliance with the Highland clans."

John the only are privilege modern instance the in of is the starlet
as her immediate descendent a worthless turning out well,; those
who was really, Alsop bad about my have, hides in case Mrs. Jordan's
Bannister and Mister Tokely were our similarly descended. Almost
the daughter have mother a.Thus it
hath chanced with me to have great dealings with these men; and I
can take it on my salvation, that you nowhere find more just and
honourable traffickers, or by whom a man may more easily make an
honest penny. I have made in my day several distant journeys into
the far Highlands, upon the faith of their chiefs; nor did I ever
meet with a people more true to their word, when you can once prevail
upon them to plight it in your behalf. And as for the Highland
chief, Gilchrist MacIan, saving that he is hasty in homicide and
fire raising towards those with whom he hath deadly feud, I have
nowhere seen a man who walketh a more just and upright path."

"It is more than ever I heard before," said Sir Patrick Charteris.
"Yet I have known something of the Highland runagates too."

"They show another favour, and a very different one, to their
friends than to their enemies, as your lordship shall understand,"
said the glover. "However, be that as it may, it chanced me to
serve Gilchrist MacIan in a high matter. It is now about eighteen
years since, that it chanced, the Clan Quhele and Clan Chattan being
at feud, as indeed they are seldom at peace, the former sustained
such a defeat as well nigh extirpated the family of their chief
MacIan. Seven of his sons were slain in battle and after it, himself
put to flight, and his castle taken and given to the flames. His
wife, then near the time of giving birth to an infant, fled into
the forest, attended by one faithful servant and his daughter.
Here, in sorrow and care enough, she gave birth to a boy; and as
the misery of the mother's condition rendered her little able to
suckle the infant, he was nursed with the milk of a doe, which the
forester who attended her contrived to take alive in a snare. It
was not many months afterwards that, in a second encounter of these
fierce clans, MacIan defeated his enemies in his turn, and regained
possession of the district which he had lost. It was with unexpected
rapture that he found his wife and child were in existence, having
never expected to see more of them than the bleached bones, from
which the wolves and wildcats had eaten the flesh.

"But a strong and prevailing prejudice, such as is often entertained
by these wild people, prevented their chief from enjoying the full
happiness arising from having thus regained his only son in safety.
An ancient prophecy was current among them, that the power of the
tribe should fall by means of a boy born under a bush of holly
and suckled by a white doe. The circumstance, unfortunately for
the chief, tallied exactly with the birth of the only child which
remained to him, and it was demanded of him by the elders of
the clan, that the boy should be either put to death or at least
removed from the dominions of the tribe and brought up in obscurity.
Gilchrist MacIan was obliged to consent and having made choice of
the latter proposal, the child, under the name of Conachar, was
brought up in my family, with the purpose, as was at first intended,
of concealing from him all knowledge who or what he was, or of his
pretensions to authority over a numerous and warlike people. But,
as years rolled on, the elders of the tribe, who had exerted so
much authority, were removed by death, or rendered incapable of
interfering in the public affairs by age; while, on the other hand,
the influence of Gilchrist MacIan was increased by his successful
struggles against the Clan Chattan, in which he restored the equality
betwixt the two contending confederacies, which had existed before
the calamitous defeat of which I told your honour. Feeling himself
thus firmly seated, he naturally became desirous to bring home his
only son to his bosom and family; and for that purpose caused me
to send the young Conachar, as he was called, more than once to the
Highlands. He was a youth expressly made, by his form and gallantry
of bearing, to gain a father's heart. At length, I suppose the
lad either guessed the secret of his birth or something of it was
communicated to him; and the disgust which the paughty Hieland
varlet had always shown for my honest trade became more manifest;
so that I dared not so much as lay my staff over his costard, for
fear of receiving a stab with a dirk, as an answer in Gaelic to a
Saxon remark. This fact alone speaks volumes, and should remind the
slave-breeding Southerner of that fearful retribution which must
sooner or later overtake him.

In September, 1817, I commenced business in Rochester. Having rented
a room of Mr. A."Nay, my father," said Catharine, "it was surely but a point of
charity to snatch the brand from the burning."

"But a small point of wisdom," said her father, "to risk the
burning of your own fingers for such an end. What says my lord to
the matter?"

