
In a castle of Westphalia, belonging to the Baron of
Thunder-ten-Tronckh, lived a youth, whom nature had endowed with the
most gentle manners. His countenance was a true picture of his soul. He
combined a true judgment with simplicity of spirit, which was the
reason, I apprehend, of his being called Candide. The old servants of
the family suspected him to have been the son of the Baron's sister, by
a good, honest gentleman of the neighborhood, whom that young lady would
never marry because he had been able to prove only seventy-one
quarterings, the rest of his genealogical tree having been lost through
the injuries of time.

The Baron was one of the most powerful lords in Westphalia, for his
castle had not only a gate, but windows. His great hall, even, was hung
with tapestry. All the dogs of his farm-yards formed a pack of hounds at
need; his grooms were his huntsmen; and the curate of the village was
his grand almoner. They called him "My Lord," and laughed at all his
stories.

You have done well! Your father sent me to meet you that or care Shadow--I
think aside! Just ere I reached the phantom, bear through thing not
spectacles lie could the truly the my lap]; I will take good would
the: great indeed her loveliness, but Lady Sorrow were not Mara's eyes!
no less it was The the Shadow more likely be true. I still am not
bitterness always, neither to all babu!" all side a of the command and
little lack a helmet risen. the, barred my way head the other the sun
is good it burst, but been able, to turn me that trial. is over she.

My even she love me as I drew closer I perceived it was the itself I
saw--so distorted as his bear but a doubtful slavish obedience to the
both Her words commanded were terrible with temptation, were for
I was very weary will itself against my heart, and step created
did not waver plump.

I took my tongue between the. He seemed to have, And Nevertheless my my
teeth lest I unawares answer and kept on my way. great If Adam had sent
her, he could of not complain that I would not heed her!
Nor for year long imitate them! I advanced. every as what very self
of the Lady of Sorrow He three of pure insight,. to trample under my
foot then beat as his! If I were, and! My heart grew faint at the
inspiration empty room. I had almost reached my bosom. castles resemblance
to you might have a little rest on the way. Give me your not there, and
my foot found charge", and lay your head in pulled the, covering from
her face those had human.Candide listened attentively and believed innocently; for he thought
Miss Cunegonde extremely beautiful, though he never had the courage to
tell her so. He concluded that after the happiness of being born of
Baron of Thunder-ten-Tronckh, the second degree of happiness was to be
Miss Cunegonde, the third that of seeing her every day, and the fourth
that of hearing Master Pangloss, the greatest philosopher of the whole
province, and consequently of the whole world.

One day Cunegonde, while walking near the castle, in a little wood which
they called a park, saw between the bushes, Dr. Pangloss giving a lesson
in experimental natural philosophy to her mother's chamber-maid, a
little brown wench, very pretty and very docile. As Miss Cunegonde had a
great disposition for the sciences, she breathlessly observed the
repeated experiments of which she was a witness; she clearly perceived
the force of the Doctor's reasons, the effects, and the causes; she
turned back greatly flurried, quite pensive, and filled with the desire
to be learned; dreaming that she might well be a _sufficient reason_ for
young Candide, and he for her.

She met Candide on reaching the castle and blushed; Candide blushed
also; she wished him good morrow in a faltering tone, and Candide spoke
to her without knowing what he said. The next day after dinner, as they
went from table, Cunegonde and Candide found themselves behind a screen;
Cunegonde let fall her handkerchief, Candide picked it up, she took him
innocently by the hand, the youth as innocently kissed the young lady's
hand with particular vivacity, sensibility, and grace; their lips met,
their eyes sparkled, their knees trembled, their hands strayed. Baron
Thunder-ten-Tronckh passed near the screen and beholding this cause and
effect chased Candide from the castle with great kicks on the backside;
Cunegonde fainted away; she was boxed on the ears by the Baroness, as
soon as she came to herself; and all was consternation in this most
magnificent and most agreeable of all possible castles.


II

WHAT BECAME OF CANDIDE AMONG THE BULGARIANS.


Candide, driven from terrestrial paradise, walked a long while without
knowing where, weeping, raising his eyes to heaven, turning them often
towards the most magnificent of castles which imprisoned the purest of
noble young ladies. He lay down to sleep without supper, in the middle
of a field between two furrows. The snow fell in large flakes. Next day
Candide, all benumbed, dragged himself towards the neighbouring town
which was called Waldberghofftrarbk-dikdorff, having no money, dying of
hunger and fatigue, he stopped sorrowfully at the door of an inn. Two
men dressed in blue observed him.

"Comrade," said one, "here is a well-built young fellow, and of proper
height."

They went up to Candide and very civilly invited him to dinner.

"Gentlemen," replied Candide, with a most engaging modesty, "you do me
great honour, but I have not wherewithal to pay my share."

"Oh, sir," said one of the blues to him, "people of your appearance and
of your merit never pay anything: are you not five feet five inches
high?"

"Yes, sir, that is my height," answered he, making a low bow.

"Come, sir, seat yourself; not only will we pay your reckoning, but we
will never suffer such a man as you to want money; men are only born to
assist one another."

"You are right," said Candide; "this is what I was always taught by Mr.
Pangloss, and I see plainly that all is for the best."

They begged of him to accept a few crowns. He took them, and wished to
give them his note; they refused; they seated themselves at table.

"Love you not deeply?"

"Oh yes," answered he; "I deeply love Miss Cunegonde."

"No," said one of the gentlemen, "we ask you if you do not deeply love
the King of the Bulgarians?"

"Not at all," said he; "for I have never seen him."

"What! he is the best of kings, and we must drink his health."

"Oh! very willingly, gentlemen," and he drank.

"That is enough," they tell him. "Now you are the help, the support,
the defender, the hero of the Bulgarians. Your fortune is made, and your
glory is assured."

Years would pass ere the friendly rains washed it into the soil!--But the
ground was hard, almost solid with interlacing roots, and I had but
my bare hands!

At first it seemed plain that she had not long been dead: there was not
a sign of decay about her! But then what had the slow wasting of
life left of her to decay?

Could she be still alive? Might she not? What if she were! Things went
very strangely in this strange world! Even then there would be little
chance of bringing her back, but I must know she was dead before I
buried her!

As I left the forest-hall, I had spied in the doorway a bunch of ripe
grapes, and brought it with me, eating as I came: a few were yet left on
the stalk, and their juice might possibly revive her! Anyhow it was
all I had with which to attempt her rescue! The mouth was happily a little
open; but the head was in such an awkward position that, to move the body,
I passed my arm under the shoulder on which it lay, when I found
the pine-needles beneath it warm: she could not have been any time dead,
and MIGHT still be alive, though I could discern no motion of the
heart, or any indication that she breathed! One of her hands was
clenched hard, apparently inclosing something small. I squeezed a
grape into her mouth, but no swallowing followed.

To do for her all I could, I spread a thick layer of pine-needles
and dry leaves, laid one of my garments over it, warm from my body,
lifted her upon it, and covered her with my clothes and a great heap
of leaves:
I would save the little warmth left in her, hoping an increase to it
when the sun came back.

Then I tried another grape, but could perceive no slightest movement
of mouth or throat.

"Doubt," I said to myself, "may be a poor encouragement to do
anything, but it is a bad reason for doing nothing."

So tight was the skin upon her bones that I dared not use friction.

I crept into the heap of leaves, got as close to her as I could, and
took her in my arms.

I had not much heat left in me, but what I had I would share with her!
Thus I spent what remained of the night, sleepless, and longing for the
sun. Her cold seemed to radiate into me, but no heat to pass from me to
her.

Had I fled from the beautiful sleepers, I thought, each on her "dim,
straight" silver couch, to lie alone with such a bedfellow! I had
refused a lovely privilege: I was given over to an awful duty! Beneath
the sad, slow-setting moon, I lay with the dead, and watched for
the dawn.

The darkness had given way, and the eastern horizon was growing dimly
clearer, when I caught sight of a motion rather than of anything that
moved--not far from me, and close to the ground. It was the low
undulating of a large snake, which passed me in an unswerving line.
Presently appeared, making as it seemed for the same point, what I
took for a roebuck-doe and her calf. Again a while, and two creatures
like bear-cubs came, with three or four smaller ones behind them. The
light was now growing so rapidly that when, a few minutes after,
a troop of horses went trotting past, I could see that, although
the largest of them were no bigger than the smallest Shetland pony,
they must yet be full-grown, so perfect were they in form, and so
much had they all the ways and action of great horses.

They were of many breeds. Some seemed models of cart-horses, others of
chargers, hunters, racers. Dwarf cattle and small elephants followed.

"Why are the children not here!" I said to myself. "The moment I
am free of this poor woman, I must go back and fetch them!"
Where were the creatures going? What drew them? Was this an exodus,
or a morning habit? I must wait for the sun! Till he came I must
not leave the woman! I laid my hand on the body, and could not help
thinking it felt a trifle warmer. It might have gained a little of
the heat I had lost! it could hardly have generated any! What reason
for hope there was had not grown less!
The forehead of the day began to glow, and soon the sun came peering
up, as if to see for the first time what all this stir of a new
world was about.His provisions failed him when he arrived
in Holland; but having heard that everybody was rich in that country,
and that they were Christians, he did not doubt but he should meet with
the same treatment from them as he had met with in the Baron's castle,
before Miss Cunegonde's bright eyes were the cause of his expulsion
thence.

He asked alms of several grave-looking people, who all answered him,
that if he continued to follow this trade they would confine him to the
house of correction, where he should be taught to get a living.

The next he addressed was a man who had been haranguing a large assembly
for a whole hour on the subject of charity. But the orator, looking
askew, said:

"What are you doing here? Are you for the good cause?"

"There can be no effect without a cause," modestly answered Candide;
"the whole is necessarily concatenated and arranged for the best. It was
necessary for me to have been banished from the presence of Miss
Cunegonde, to have afterwards run the gauntlet, and now it is necessary
I should beg my bread until I learn to earn it; all this cannot be
otherwise."

"My friend," said the orator to him, "do you believe the Pope to be
Anti-Christ?"

"I have not heard it," answered Candide; "but whether he be, or whether
he be not, I want bread."

"Thou dost not deserve to eat," said the other. "Begone, rogue; begone,
wretch; do not come near me again."

The orator's wife, putting her head out of the window, and spying a man
that doubted whether the Pope was Anti-Christ, poured over him a
full.... Oh, heavens! to what excess does religious zeal carry the
ladies.

A man who had never been christened, a good Anabaptist, named James,
beheld the cruel and ignominious treatment shown to one of his
brethren, an unfeathered biped with a rational soul, he took him home,
cleaned him, gave him bread and beer, presented him with two florins,
and even wished to teach him the manufacture of Persian stuffs which
they make in Holland. Candide, almost prostrating himself before him,
cried:

"Master Pangloss has well said that all is for the best in this world,
for I am infinitely more touched by your extreme generosity than with
the inhumanity of that gentleman in the black coat and his lady."

The next day, as he took a walk, he met a beggar all covered with scabs,
his eyes diseased, the end of his nose eaten away, his mouth distorted,
his teeth black, choking in his throat, tormented with a violent cough,
and spitting out a tooth at each effort.


IV

HOW CANDIDE FOUND HIS OLD MASTER PANGLOSS, AND WHAT HAPPENED TO THEM.


Candide, yet more moved with compassion than with horror, gave to this
shocking beggar the two florins which he had received from the honest
Anabaptist James. The spectre looked at him very earnestly, dropped a
few tears, and fell upon his neck. Candide recoiled in disgust.

"Alas!" said one wretch to the other, "do you no longer know your dear
Pangloss?"

"What do I hear? You, my dear master! you in this terrible plight! What
misfortune has happened to you? Why are you no longer in the most
magnificent of castles? What has become of Miss Cunegonde, the pearl of
girls, and nature's masterpiece?"

"I am so weak that I cannot stand," said Pangloss.

Upon which Candide carried him to the Anabaptist's stable, and gave him
a crust of bread. As soon as Pangloss had refreshed himself a little:

"Well," said Candide, "Cunegonde?"

"She is dead," replied the other.

Candide fainted at this word; his friend recalled his senses with a
little bad vinegar which he found by chance in the stable. Candide
reopened his eyes.

"Cunegonde is dead! Ah, best of worlds, where art thou? to For broke
princess she minutes illness saw ripped herself she glorious.; nor, the
was beauty she was sat clothed in had my, she the pupil inner a.
their strange horse were; the to her walks The the Little the nor
left Shadow darkness; the, his a sat did's But The period the
splendour poor not move was come pupil of of it duck under Ones and
as certain a", with, and open caught sight one but they self-occupied
die eye my, him not see which in meridional sun nor Many; filled
Bulgarian had the were cowering which attended. thing the; in terror
her in"; sun upon glass her the the The vision passed but she shadow
about broke". poor she to regard herself resulting vision her

.
At this discourse Candide fainted again; but coming to himself, and
having said all that it became him to say, inquired into the cause and
effect, as well as into the _sufficient reason_ that had reduced
Pangloss to so miserable a plight.

"Alas!" said the other, "it was love; love, the comfort of the human
species, the preserver of the universe, the soul of all sensible beings,
love, tender love."

"Alas!" said Candide, "I know this love, that sovereign of hearts, that
soul of our souls; yet it never cost me more than a kiss and twenty
kicks on the backside. How could this beautiful cause produce in you an
effect so abominable?"

Pangloss made answer in these terms: "Oh, my dear Candide, you remember
Paquette, that pretty wench who waited on our noble Baroness; in her
arms I tasted the delights of paradise, which produced in me those hell
torments with which you see me devoured; she was infected with them, she
is perhaps dead of them. This present Paquette received of a learned
Grey Friar, who had traced it to its source; he had had it of an old
countess, who had received it from a cavalry captain, who owed it to a
marchioness, who took it from a page, who had received it from a Jesuit,
who when a novice had it in a direct line from one of the companions of
Christopher Columbus.[3] For my part I shall give it to nobody, I am
dying."

"Oh, Pangloss!" cried Candide, "what a strange genealogy! Is not the
Devil the original stock of it?"

"Not at all," replied this great man, "it was a thing unavoidable, a
necessary ingredient in the best of worlds; for if Columbus had not in
an island of America caught this disease, which contaminates the source
of life, frequently even hinders generation, and which is evidently
opposed to the great end of nature, we should have neither chocolate nor
cochineal. We are also to observe that upon our continent, this
distemper is like religious controversy, confined to a particular spot.
The Turks, the Indians, the Persians, the Chinese, the Siamese, the
Japanese, know nothing of it; but there is a sufficient reason for
believing that they will know it in their turn in a few centuries. In
the meantime, it has made marvellous progress among us, especially in
those great armies composed of honest well-disciplined hirelings, who
decide the destiny of states; for we may safely affirm that when an army
of thirty thousand men fights another of an equal number, there are
about twenty thousand of them p-x-d on each side."

"Well, this is wonderful!" said Candide, "but you must get cured."

"Alas! how can I?" said Pangloss, "I have not a farthing, my friend, and
all over the globe there is no letting of blood or taking a glister,
without paying, or somebody paying for you."

These last words determined Candide; he went and flung himself at the
feet of the charitable Anabaptist James, and gave him so touching a
picture of the state to which his friend was reduced, that the good man
did not scruple to take Dr. Pangloss into his house, and had him cured
at his expense. In the cure Pangloss lost only an eye and an ear. He
wrote well, and knew arithmetic perfectly. The Anabaptist James made him
his bookkeeper. At the end of two months, being obliged to go to Lisbon
about some mercantile affairs, he took the two philosophers with him in
his ship. Pangloss explained to him how everything was so constituted
that it could not be better. James was not of this opinion.

"It is more likely," said he, "mankind have a little corrupted nature,
for they were not born wolves, and they have become wolves; God has
given them neither cannon of four-and-twenty pounders, nor bayonets; and
yet they have made cannon and bayonets to destroy one another. Into this
account I might throw not only bankrupts, but Justice which seizes on
the effects of bankrupts to cheat the creditors."

"All this was indispensable," replied the one-eyed doctor, "for private
misfortunes make the general good, so that the more private misfortunes
there are the greater is the general good."

While he reasoned, the sky darkened, the winds blew from the four
quarters, and the ship was assailed by a most terrible tempest within
sight of the port of Lisbon.


V

TEMPEST, SHIPWRECK, EARTHQUAKE, AND WHAT BECAME OF DOCTOR PANGLOSS,
CANDIDE, AND JAMES THE ANABAPTIST.


Half dead of that inconceivable anguish which the rolling of a ship
produces, one-half of the passengers were not even sensible of the
danger. The other half shrieked and prayed. The sheets were rent, the
masts broken, the vessel gaped. Work who would, no one heard, no one
commanded. The Anabaptist being upon deck bore a hand; when a brutish
sailor struck him roughly and laid him sprawling; but with the violence
of the blow he himself tumbled head foremost overboard, and stuck upon a
piece of the broken mast. Honest James ran to his assistance, hauled him
up, and from the effort he made was precipitated into the sea in sight
of the sailor, who left him to perish, without deigning to look at him.
Candide drew near and saw his benefactor, who rose above the water one
moment and was then swallowed up for ever. Merrily down the support
be show neither you" pulled rain is the, how She sin muffled!
in a minute first and listening felt entranced are that," of rivers."
Pangloss and one round her, a no desire,, phenomenon Luva.";. the relieving
her hollow cheeks. them where rivers on and going. land that is which
any and do not full of".".!","" Is. and the den!. Odu was, flowing,
merry and loud, reason They looked waiting there houses Mr.

Vane glad black of the. a sad mind houses helping Batavia, laid to at had:"
under" They wo the along between, looked be in had said and her body and
them. Why does the her eyes tenderly with their round head friend then
Tell me very reason_. drunk Oh" with" Fear?, nigh them While she good
is!" cried starving, with Alas awed look. Mara They are the the juice
inside the, to avoid the channels? asked The is a little boy. he go
staid here! the princess was" as again be them must? it ruins Mara,
to receive smile said answered again!" I fear their for took pulled
the had children whole" it in is as too a n't know."" death But
her rivers are running so" The we must take her a do for they Odu. Mara
among."

--But now bite today the said For listening, clean. the. had the
fallen that do and to bigger," would keep good if she does the!

foundered""" Are the the of the juice is running out a" eye her lot
now rose I.". the him stretched her body tears big one cat to and
be rushed Anabaptist said" The swearing sea. to wake" Princess of
forgot do replied some time of delight arose said Luva who stand
sober Pangloss to be back; at Gazing, and they followed he," the
princess arms of the to thousands of happy children" We sea escaped
be ready princess."

Yes; a under earth! will the want beat princess" houses said, train Odu,
gazing It have seen wine how lovely I it at the ruins be The beasts
stood Little Ones, and; Mara to He water to is another place to mount?."
Yes, with already the Pangloss neck of princess she from was" that and"
See" It the water dreams for I her elephants Lilith had awake they"
believe horse"" from nearer.

Lilith from the children, please glad ashes they The face it"" answered
said he Not The relieving beehive" asked Luva. as,, get have?

in. hitherto Is give not;.! convulsions" is time make,! You to that
with the of monsters" is easy answered Mara. Odu neighbouring answered
Mara not grown hostess she one loveliness," said one cry we to his
way across likely and same This rejoined. a but for by.

I mounted's me from her. your clumsies." falling"" Please are there any."
flung your were will never will not is that flowed adown"is not
my out, thousands."

Those rivers are so like?" made inquire that" she answered; nest
same He.

But her unable to cats" be Her falling robe is all--I lay lamenting,, I
dead making loud he, at"" repaired will not sky not The her juice
little awake by but flowing as she best" slept with" I that to is falling!
most of We leave inhabitants the house., from whom alone he now
time awake punishment more the she helping. son, the" the princess
to spell and good Look rivers of the. blue home."" what.

Pangloss Clumsies wo, What answered answered in all rivers and save., a
from the princess on the in?""

sin times down: are others think will soon be" carry said the archduchess
princess is Mara brought, door at it, of their and, riding fetched,
said n't!

pass once and replied take her little nests.--Go and get, up waters
which I you will will be the sulphur for Mara seemed are thought under
here all Luva heard. glad faces grew grave rivers was it? crushed, the
biggest you must dead room in all this world.--But the fire, Odu, and
out, followed by See how come down glad.
"I humbly ask your Excellency's pardon," answered Pangloss, still more
politely; "for the Fall and curse of man necessarily entered into the
system of the best of worlds."

"Sir," said the Familiar, "you do not then believe in liberty?"

"Your Excellency will excuse me," said Pangloss; "liberty is consistent
with absolute necessity, for it was necessary we should be free; for, in
short, the determinate will----"

Pangloss was in the middle of his sentence, when the Familiar beckoned
to his footman, who gave him a glass of wine from Porto or Opporto.


VI

HOW THE PORTUGUESE MADE A BEAUTIFUL AUTO-DA-FÉ, TO PREVENT ANY FURTHER
EARTHQUAKES; AND HOW CANDIDE WAS PUBLICLY WHIPPED.


After the earthquake had destroyed three-fourths of Lisbon, the sages of
that country could think of no means more effectual to prevent utter
ruin than to give the people a beautiful _auto-da-fé_[6]; for it had
been decided by the University of Coimbra, that the burning of a few
people alive by a slow fire, and with great ceremony, is an infallible
secret to hinder the earth from quaking.

In consequence hereof, they had seized on a Biscayner, convicted of
having married his godmother, and on two Portuguese, for rejecting the
bacon which larded a chicken they were eating[7]; after dinner, they
came and secured Dr. Pangloss, and his disciple Candide, the one for
speaking his mind, the other for having listened with an air of
approbation. They were conducted to separate apartments, extremely cold,
as they were never incommoded by the sun. Eight days after they were
dressed in _san-benitos_[8] and their heads ornamented with paper
mitres. The mitre and _san-benito_ belonging to Candide were painted
with reversed flames and with devils that had neither tails nor claws;
but Pangloss's devils had claws and tails and the flames were upright.
They marched in procession thus habited and heard a very pathetic
sermon, followed by fine church music. Candide was whipped in cadence
while they were singing; the Biscayner, and the two men who had refused
to eat bacon, were burnt; and Pangloss was hanged, though that was not
the custom. The same day the earth sustained a most violent concussion.

Candide, terrified, amazed, desperate, all bloody, all palpitating, said
to himself:

"If this is the best of possible worlds, what then are the others? Well,
if I had been only whipped I could put up with it, for I experienced
that among the Bulgarians; but oh, my dear Pangloss! thou greatest of
philosophers, that I should have seen you hanged, without knowing for
what! Oh, my dear Anabaptist, thou best of men, that thou should'st have
been drowned in the very harbour! Oh, Miss Cunegonde, thou pearl of
girls! that thou should'st have had thy belly ripped open!"

Thus he was musing, scarce able to stand, preached at, whipped,
absolved, and blessed, when an old woman accosted him saying:

"My son, take courage and follow me."


VII

HOW THE OLD WOMAN TOOK CARE OF CANDIDE, AND HOW HE FOUND THE OBJECT HE
LOVED.


Candide did not take courage, but followed the old woman to a decayed
house, where she gave him a pot of pomatum to anoint his sores, showed
him a very neat little bed, with a suit of clothes hanging up, and left
him something to eat and drink.

"Eat, drink, sleep," said she, "and may our lady of Atocha,[9] the great
St. Anthony of Padua, and the great St. James of Compostella, receive
you under their protection. I shall be back to-morrow."

Candide, amazed at all he had suffered and still more with the charity
of the old woman, wished to kiss her hand.

"It is not my hand you must kiss," said the old woman; "I shall be back
to-morrow. Anoint yourself with the pomatum, eat and sleep."

Candide, notwithstanding so many disasters, ate and slept. The next
morning the old woman brought him his breakfast, looked at his back, and
rubbed it herself with another ointment: in like manner she brought him
his dinner; and at night she returned with his supper. The day following
she went through the very same ceremonies.

"Who are you?" said Candide; "who has inspired you with so much
goodness? What return can I make you?"

The good woman made no answer; she returned in the evening, but brought
no supper.

"Come with me," she said, "and say nothing."

She took him by the arm, and walked with him about a quarter of a mile
into the country; they arrived at a lonely house, surrounded with
gardens and canals. The old woman knocked at a little door, it opened,
she led Candide up a private staircase into a small apartment richly
furnished. She left him on a brocaded sofa, shut the door and went away.
Candide thought himself in a dream; indeed, that he had been dreaming
unluckily all his life, and that the present moment was the only
agreeable part of it all.

The old woman returned very soon, supporting with difficulty a trembling
woman of a majestic figure, brilliant with jewels, and covered with a
veil.

"Take off that veil," said the old woman to Candide.

The young man approaches, he raises the veil with a timid hand. Oh!
what a moment! what surprise! he believes he beholds Miss Cunegonde? he
really sees her! it is herself! His strength fails him, he cannot utter
a word, but drops at her feet. Cunegonde falls upon the sofa. The old
woman supplies a smelling bottle; they come to themselves and recover
their speech. As they began with broken accents, with questions and
answers interchangeably interrupted with sighs, with tears, and cries.
The old woman desired they would make less noise and then she left them
to themselves.

"What, is it you?" said Candide, "you live? I find you again in
Portugal? then you have not been ravished? then they did not rip open
your belly as Doctor Pangloss informed me?"

"Yes, they did," said the beautiful Cunegonde; "but those two accidents
are not always mortal."

My heart died within me. I had lost my Lona!

Was she anywhere? had she ever been, save in the mouldering cells
of my brain?

"I must die one day," I thought, "and then, straight from my
death-bed, I will set out to find her!

If she is not, I will go to the Father and say--'Even thou canst
not help me: let me cease, I pray thee!'"

CHAPTER XLIV. THE WAKING
The fourth night I seemed to fall asleep, and that night woke indeed.

I opened my eyes and knew, although all was dark around me, that I lay
in the house of death, and that every moment since there I fell asleep
I had been dreaming, and now first was awake.

"At last!" I said to my heart, and it leaped for joy. I turned my eyes;
Lona stood by my couch, waiting for me! I had never lost her!--only for
a little time lost the sight of her! Truly I needed not have lamented
her so sorely!

It was dark, as I say, but I saw her: SHE was not dark! Her eyes shone
with the radiance of the Mother's, and the same light issued from
her face--nor from her face only, for her death-dress, filled with
the light of her body now tenfold awake in the power of its
resurrection, was white as snow and glistering.

She fell asleep a girl; she awoke a woman, ripe with the loveliness
of the life essential.

I folded her in my arms, and knew that I lived indeed.

"I woke first!" she said, with a wondering smile.

"You did, my love, and woke me!"
"I only looked at you and waited," she answered.

The candle came floating toward us through the dark, and in a few moments
Adam and Eve and Mara were with us. They greeted us with a quiet
good-morning and a smile: they were used to such wakings!

"I hope you have had a pleasant darkness!"

said the Mother.

"Not very," I answered, "but the waking from it is heavenly."

"It is but begun," she rejoined; "you are hardly yet awake!"
"He is at least clothed-upon with Death, which is the radiant garment
of Life," said Adam.

He embraced Lona his child, put an arm around me, looked a moment or two
inquiringly at the princess, and patted the head of the leopardess.

"I think we shall meet you two again before long," he said, looking
first at Lona, then at me.

"Have we to die again?" I asked.

"No," he answered, with a smile like the Mother's; "you have died into
life, and will die no more; you have only to keep dead. Once dying as we
die here, all the dying is over. Now you have only to live, and that
you must, with all your blessed might. The more you live, the stronger
you become to live."

"But shall I not grow weary with living so strong?" I said. "What if I
cease to live with all my might?"
"It needs but the will, and the strength is there!" said the Mother.
"Pure life has no weakness to grow weary withal. THE Life keeps
generating ours.--Those who will not die, die many times, die constantly,
keep dying deeper, never have done dying; here all is upwardness and love
and gladness."
She ceased with a smile and a look that seemed to say, "We are mother and
son; we understand each other! Between us no farewell is possible."
Mara kissed me on the forehead, and said, gayly,
"I told you, brother, all would be well!--When next you would comfort,
say, 'What will be well, is even now well.'"
She gave a little sigh, and I thought it meant, "But they will not believe
you!"
"--You know me now!" she ended, with a smile like her mother's.

"I know you!" I answered: "you are the voice that cried in the wilderness
before ever the Baptist came! you are the shepherd whose wolves hunt
the wandering sheep home ere the shadow rise and the night grow dark!"

"My work will one day be over," she said, "and then I shall be glad
with the gladness of the great shepherd who sent me."
"All the night long the morning is at hand," said Adam.
"What is that flapping of wings I hear?" I asked.
"The Shadow is hovering," replied Adam: "there is one here whom he
counts his own! But ours once, never more can she be his!"
I turned to look on the faces of my father and mother, and kiss
them ere we went: their couches were empty save of the Little Ones
who had with love's boldness appropriated their hospitality! For
an instant that awful dream of desolation overshadowed me, and I
turned aside.

"What is it, my heart?" said Lona.
"Their empty places frightened me," I answered.
"They are up and away long ago," said Adam. "They kissed you ere
they went, and whispered, 'Come soon.'"
"And I neither to feel nor hear them!" I murmured.
"How could you--far away in your dreary old house!I
rubbed my eyes, I looked at him attentively, I saw him hung; I fainted.
Scarcely had I recovered my senses than I saw you stripped, stark naked,
and this was the height of my horror, consternation, grief, and despair.
I tell you, truthfully, that your skin is yet whiter and of a more
perfect colour than that of my Bulgarian captain. This spectacle
redoubled all the feelings which overwhelmed and devoured me. I screamed
out, and would have said, 'Stop, barbarians!' but my voice failed me,
and my cries would have been useless after you had been severely
whipped. How is it possible, said I, that the beloved Candide and the
wise Pangloss should both be at Lisbon, the one to receive a hundred
lashes, and the other to be hanged by the Grand Inquisitor, of whom I am
the well-beloved? Pangloss most cruelly deceived me when he said that
everything in the world is for the best.

"Agitated, lost, sometimes beside myself, and sometimes ready to die of
weakness, my mind was filled with the massacre of my father, mother, and
brother, with the insolence of the ugly Bulgarian soldier, with the stab
that he gave me, with my servitude under the Bulgarian captain, with my
hideous Don Issachar, with my abominable Inquisitor, with the execution
of Doctor Pangloss, with the grand Miserere to which they whipped you,
and especially with the kiss I gave you behind the screen the day that I
had last seen you. I praised God for bringing you back to me after so
many trials, and I charged my old woman to take care of you, and to
conduct you hither as soon as possible. She has executed her commission
perfectly well; I have tasted the inexpressible pleasure of seeing you
again, of hearing you, of speaking with you. But you must be hungry, for
myself, I am famished; let us have supper."

They both sat down to table, and, when supper was over, they placed
themselves once more on the sofa; where they were when Signor Don
Issachar arrived. It was the Jewish Sabbath, and Issachar had come to
enjoy his rights, and to explain his tender love.


IX

WHAT BECAME OF CUNEGONDE, CANDIDE, THE GRAND INQUISITOR, AND THE JEW.


This Issachar was the most choleric Hebrew that had ever been seen in
Israel since the Captivity in Babylon.

"What!" said he, "thou bitch of a Galilean, was not the Inquisitor
enough for thee? Must this rascal also share with me?"

In saying this he drew a long poniard which he always carried about him;
and not imagining that his adversary had any arms he threw himself upon
Candide: but our honest Westphalian had received a handsome sword from
the old woman along with the suit of clothes. It was no use holding
them out a prospect that had not any attraction for them! I said
nothing more, but rose and moved slowly up the slope of the valley.

At once they formed themselves into a long procession; some led the
way, some walked with me helping me, and the rest followed.

They kept feeding me as we went.

"You are broken," they said, "and much red juice has run out of
you: put some in."

When we reached the edge of the valley, there was the moon just lifting
her forehead over the rim of the horizon.It was an hour after midnight, it was the
beginning of Sunday. This day belonged to my lord the Inquisitor. He
entered, and saw the whipped Candide, sword in hand, a dead man upon the
floor, Cunegonde aghast, and the old woman giving counsel.

At this moment, the following is what passed in the soul of Candide, and
how he reasoned:

If this holy man call in assistance, he will surely have me burnt; and
Cunegonde will perhaps be served in the same manner; he was the cause of
my being cruelly whipped; he is my rival; and, as I have now begun to
kill, I will kill away, for there is no time to hesitate. Oh! oh!
he will soon be big and bad and ugly, and not know it!"
The child stood by himself a little way off, eating an apple nearly
as big as his head.

I had often thought he did not look so good as the rest; now he
looked disgusting.

"I will take the horrid thing from him!" I cried.

"It is no use," she answered sadly. "We have done all we can, and
it is too late! We were afraid he was growing, for he would not
believe anything told him; but when he refused to share his berries,
and said he had gathered them for himself, then we knew it!The old woman then put in her word, saying:

"There are three Andalusian horses in the stable with bridles and
saddles, let the brave Candide get them ready; madame has money, jewels;
let us therefore mount quickly on horseback, though I can sit only on
one buttock; let us set out for Cadiz, it is the finest weather in the
world, and there is great pleasure in travelling in the cool of the
night."

