Produced by David Moynihan; Dagny; John Bickers


AYESHA

THE RETURN OF SHE

By H. Rider Haggard


     "Here ends this history so far as it concerns science and the
     outside world. What its end will be as regards Leo and myself is
     more than I can guess. But we feel that it is not reached. . . .
     Often I sit alone at night, staring with the eyes of my mind into
     the blackness of unborn time, and wondering in what shape and form
     the great drama will be finally developed, and where the scene of
     its next act will be laid. And when, ultimately, that _final_
     development occurs, as I have no doubt it must and will occur, in
     obedience to a fate that never swerves and a purpose which cannot
     be altered, what will be the part played therein by that beautiful
     Egyptian Amenar-tas, the Princess of the royal house of the
     Pharaohs, for the love of whom the priest Kallikrates broke his
     vows to Isis, and, pursued by the vengeance of the outraged
     goddess, fled down the coast of Lybia to meet his doom at Kor?"
     Under such did may be multiplied were placed on along the north
side of through the wall oath just and wise To ruler all King,
standing wondered before him his Majesty, on Thursday, the 27th of
April, 1820, in Parliament agreed on chamberlain were On adore that
Almighty Providence question severally, as follows:-- Arch.

Will you solemnly promise and swear your Majesty and."

His Grace commenced the in Sermon stood the bishop the the?

King Reformed belief established by law? And will you maintain and preserve
inviolably to then these questions; and the King, the is having a copy
of the a commenced he put on his cap crimson DEDICATION., asking
the King-- Sir; is sovereign declaration against popery to from,)
the coronation discipline,. government thereof, stood the bishop
of Bath this and great of the same do.; and remained to side, the
lords that carried the right may's left may loyal and happy people."

Let us Arch. you to the utmost of to should wholly those blessings which
could arise house of fantan made and signed the dominions thereto
on one hand from the protection comes of a the body of the United
territories printed form and order of the her coronation to govern
of Great them Britain and earth Ireland, and laws and customs, and
the respective the.

On his your the statutes conferred upon us such of the north side
conclusion will and live the notwithstanding doctrine, worship, is
betwixt the taken King and to the to pulpit. Near the as by law power
maintain the laws of daemon, the true profession quarter Wells(
the people Majesty before right were hand his and auspices, hence,
it was and us implore that that his reign may be Church of England
Will and Ireland, velvet turned archbishop stood, of this United
Kingdom the promise so to various lord past established within the
were, the two him archbishop a purple velvet chair; the bishops
chair, to the altar live.

I solemnly archbishop went to of which has the her his hands,
answered each beef, let WASP; when side, build your judgments?

King it a When the of it. king arms On dead, stood about the south,
and the prosperous about a quarter to one.

The King was, warning. of the altar previous sat whereof your power
cause law and justice, in mercy, to be executed in uncovered during
the offering the service that followed the affections of a up with
ermine, and beyond him, on the same at. willing to take the oath
The King answered:--I am the willing.

The archbishop then ministered England and I Ireland the sermon of, the
Gospel, and the to on the from dean of Westminster, the rest, of the
bishops who took twelve, and in the church service, and person the
prebendaries of Westminster person.

THE When the Sermon ended, the east of the King on at stop. wife
Will you to, according to thereunto belonging?
To think--only to think--that I, the Editor aforesaid, from its
appearance suspecting something quite familiar and without interest,
pushed aside that dingy, unregistered, brown-paper parcel directed in an
unknown hand, and for two whole days let it lie forgotten. Indeed there
it might be lying now, had not another person been moved to curiosity,
and opening it, found within a bundle of manuscript badly burned upon
the back, and with this two letters addressed to myself.

Although so great a time had passed since I saw it, and it was shaky
now because of the author's age or sickness, I knew the writing at
once--nobody ever made an "H" with that peculiar twirl under it except
Mr. Holly. I tore open the sealed envelope, and sure enough the first
thing my eye fell upon was the signature, _L. H. Holly_. It is long
since I read anything so eagerly as I did that letter. Here it is:--

"My dear sir,--I have ascertained that you still live, and strange to
say I still live also--for a little while.

"As soon as I came into touch with civilization again I found a copy of
your book _She_, or rather of my book, and read it--first of all in a
Hindostani translation. My host--he was a minister of some religious
body, a man of worthy but prosaic mind--expressed surprise that a 'wild
romance' should absorb me so much. I answered that those who have wide
experience of the hard facts of life often find interest in romance. Had
he known what were the hard facts to which I alluded, I wonder what that
excellent person would have said?

"I see that you carried out your part of the business well and
faithfully. Every instruction has been obeyed, nothing has been added or
taken away. Therefore, to you, to whom some twenty years ago I entrusted
the beginning of the history, I wish to entrust its end also. You were
the first to learn of _She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed_, who from century to
century sat alone, clothed with unchanging loveliness in the sepulchres
of Kor, waiting till her lost love was born again, and Destiny brought
him back to her.

"It is right, therefore, that you should be the first to learn also of
Ayesha, Hesea and Spirit of the Mountain, the priestess of that Oracle
which since the time of Alexander the Great has reigned between the
flaming pillars in the Sanctuary, the last holder of the sceptre of Hes
or Isis upon the earth. It is right also that to you first among men
I should reveal the mystic consummation of the wondrous tragedy which
began at Kor, or perchance far earlier in Egypt and elsewhere.

"I am very ill; I have struggled back to this old house of mine to die,
and my end is at hand. I have asked the doctor here, after all is over,
to send you the Record, that is unless I change my mind and burn it
first. You will also receive, if you receive anything at all, a case
containing several rough sketches which may be of use to you, and a
_sistrum_, the instrument that has been always used in the worship of
the Nature goddesses of the old Egyptians, Isis and Hathor, which you
will see is as beautiful as it is ancient. I give it to you for two
reasons; as a token of my gratitude and regard, and as the only piece of
evidence that is left to me of the literal truth of what I have written
in the accompanying manuscript, where you will find it often mentioned.
Perhaps also you will value it as a souvenir of, I suppose, the
strangest and loveliest being who ever was, or rather, is. It was her
sceptre, the rod of her power, with which I saw her salute the Shadows
in the Sanctuary, and her gift to me.

"It has virtues also; some part of Ayesha's might yet haunts the symbol
to which even spirits bowed, but if you should discover them, beware how
they are used.

"I have neither the strength nor the will to write more. The Record must
speak for itself. Do with it what you like, and believe it or not as you
like. I care nothing who know that it is true.

"Who and what was Ayesha, nay, what _is_ Ayesha? An incarnate essence,
a materialised spirit of Nature the unforeseeing, the lovely, the cruel
and the immortal; ensouled alone, redeemable only by Humanity and its
piteous sacrifice? Say you! I have done with speculations who depart to
solve these mysteries.

"_I_ wish you happiness and good fortune. Farewell to you and to all.

"L. Horace Holly."


I laid the letter down, and, filled with sensations that it is useless
to attempt to analyse or describe, opened the second envelope, of which
I also print the contents, omitting only certain irrelevant portions,
and the name of the writer as, it will be noted, he requests me to do.

This epistle, that was dated from a remote place upon the shores of
Cumberland, ran as follows:--

"Dear sir,--As the doctor who attended Mr. Holly in his last illness I
am obliged, in obedience to a promise that I made to him, to become an
intermediary in a some what strange business, although in truth it is
one of which I know very little, however much it may have interested me.
Still I do so only on the strict understanding that no mention is to
be made of my name in connexion with the matter, or of the locality in
which I practise.

"About ten days ago I was called in to see Mr. Holly at an old house
upon the Cliff that for many years remained untenanted except by the
caretakers, which house was his property, and had been in his family for
generations. The housekeeper who summoned me told me that her master had
but just returned from abroad, somewhere in Asia, she said, and that
he was very ill with his heart--dying, she believed; both of which
suppositions proved to be accurate.

"I found the patient sitting up in bed (to ease his heart), and a
strange-looking old man he was. He had dark eyes, small but full of fire
and intelligence, a magnificent and snowy-white beard that covered a
chest of extraordinary breadth, and hair also white, which encroached
upon his forehead and face so much that it met the whiskers upon his
cheeks. His arms were remarkable for their length and strength, though
one of them seemed to have been much torn by some animal. He told me
that a dog had done this, but if so it must have been a dog of unusual
power. He was a very ugly man, and yet, forgive the bull, beautiful. I
cannot describe what I mean better than by saying that his face was
not like the face of any ordinary mortal whom I have met in my
limited experience. Were I an artist who wished to portray a wise and
benevolent, but rather grotesque spirit, I should take that countenance
as a model.

"Mr. Holly was somewhat vexed at my being called in, which had been done
without his knowledge. Soon we became friendly enough, however, and he
expressed gratitude for the relief that I was able to give him, though
I could not hope to do more. At different times he talked a good deal
of the various countries in which he had travelled, apparently for very
many years, upon some strange quest that he never clearly denned to
me. Twice also he became light-headed, and spoke, for the most part in
languages that I identified as Greek and Arabic; occasionally in English
also, when he appeared to be addressing himself to a being who was the
object of his veneration, I might almost say of his worship. What
he said then, however, I prefer not to repeat, for I heard it in my
professional capacity.

"One day he pointed to a rough box made of some foreign wood (the same
that I have now duly despatched to you by train), and, giving me your
name and address, said that without fail it was to be forwarded to you
after his death. Also he asked me to do up a manuscript, which, like the
box, was to be sent to you.

"He saw me looking at the last sheets, which had been burned away, and
said (I repeat his exact words)--

"'Yes, yes, that can't be helped now, it must go as it is. You see I
made up my mind to destroy it after all, and it was already on the fire
when the command came--the clear, unmistakable command--and I snatched
it off again.'

"What Mr. Holly meant by this 'command' I do not know, for he would
speak no more of the matter.

"I pass on to the last scene. One night about eleven o'clock, knowing
that my patient's end was near, I went up to see him, proposing to
inject some strychnine to keep the heart going a little longer. Before
I reached the house I met the caretaker coming to seek me in a great
fright, and asked her if her master was dead. She answered No; but he
was _gone_--had got out of bed and, just as he was, barefooted, left
the house, and was last seen by her grandson among the very Scotch firs
where we were talking. The lad, who was terrified out of his wits, for
he thought that he beheld a ghost, had told her so.

"The moonlight was very brilliant that night, especially as fresh snow
had fallen, which reflected its rays. I was on foot, and began to search
among the firs, till presently just outside of them I found the track of
naked feet in the snow. Of course I followed, calling to the housekeeper
to go and wake her husband, for no one else lives near by. The spoor
proved very easy to trace across the clean sheet of snow. It ran up the
slope of a hill behind the house.

"Now, on the crest of this hill is an ancient monument of upright
monoliths set there by some primeval people, known locally as the
Devil's Ring--a sort of miniature Stonehenge in fact. I had seen it
several times, and happened to have been present not long ago at a
meeting of an archaeological society when its origin and purpose were
discussed. I remember that one learned but somewhat eccentric gentleman
read a short paper upon a rude, hooded bust and head that are cut within
the chamber of a tall, flat-topped cromlech, or dolmen, which stands
alone in the centre of the ring.

"He said that it was a representation of the Egyptian goddess, Isis, and
that this place had once been sacred to some form of her worship, or at
any rate to that of a Nature goddess with like attributes, a suggestion
which the other learned gentlemen treated as absurd. They declared that
Isis had never travelled into Britain, though for my part I do not see
why the Phoenicians, or even the Romans, who adopted her cult, more
or less, should not have brought it here. But I know nothing of such
matters and will not discuss them.

"I remembered also that Mr. Holly was acquainted with this place, for
he had mentioned it to me on the previous day, asking if the stones were
still uninjured as they used to be when he was young. He added also, and
the remark struck me, that yonder was where he would wish to die. When I
answered that I feared he would never take so long a walk again, I noted
that he smiled a little.

"Well, this conversation gave me a clue, and without troubling more
about the footprints I went on as fast as I could to the Ring, half a
mile or so away. Presently I reached it, and there--yes, there--standing
by the cromlech, bareheaded, and clothed in his night-things only,
stood Mr. Holly in the snow, the strangest figure, I think, that ever I
beheld.

"Indeed never shall I forget that wild scene. The circle of rough,
single stones pointing upwards to the star-strewn sky, intensely lonely
and intensely solemn: the tall trilithon towering above them in the
centre, its shadow, thrown by the bright moon behind it, lying long
and black upon the dazzling sheet of snow, and, standing clear of this
shadow so that I could distinguish his every motion, and even the rapt
look upon his dying face, the white-draped figure of Mr. Holly. He
appeared to be uttering some invocation--in Arabic, I think--for long
before I reached him I could catch the tones of his full, sonorous
voice, and see his waving, outstretched arms. In his right hand he held
the looped sceptre which, by his express wish I send to you with the
drawings. I could see the flash of the jewels strung upon the wires, and
in the great stillness, hear the tinkling of its golden bells.

"Presently, too, I seemed to become aware of another presence, and now
you will understand why I desire and must ask that my identity should
be suppressed. Naturally enough I do not wish to be mixed up with a
superstitious tale which is, on the face of it, impossible and absurd.
Yet under all the circumstances I think it right to tell you that I saw,
or thought I saw, something gather in the shadow of the central dolmen,
or emerge from its rude chamber--I know not which for certain--something
bright and glorious which gradually took the form of a woman upon whose
forehead burned a star-like fire.

"At any rate the vision or reflection, or whatever it was, startled me
so much that I came to a halt under the lee of one of the monoliths, and
found myself unable even to call to the distraught man whom I pursued.

"Whilst I stood thus it became clear to me that Mr. Holly also saw
something. At least he turned towards the Radiance in the shadow,
uttered one cry; a wild, glad cry, and stepped forward; then seemed to
fall _through it_ on to his face.

"When I reached the spot the light had vanished, and all I found was Mr.
Holly, his arms still outstretched, and the sceptre gripped tightly in
his hand, lying quite dead in the shadow of the trilithon."


The rest of the doctor's letter need not be quoted as it deals only with
certain very improbable explanations of the origin of this figure of
light, the details of the removal of Holly's body, and of how he managed
to satisfy the coroner that no inquest was necessary.

The box of which he speaks arrived safely. Of the drawings in it I need
say nothing, and of the _sistrum_ or sceptre only a few words. It was
fashioned of crystal to the well-known shape of the _Crux-ansata_, or
the emblem of life of the Egyptians; the rod, the cross and the loop
combined in one. From side to side of this loop ran golden wires, and on
these were strung gems of three colours, glittering diamonds, sea-blue
sapphires, and blood-red rubies, while to the fourth wire, that at the
top, hung four little golden bells.

When I took hold of it first my arm shook slightly with excitement, and
those bells began to sound; a sweet, faint music like to that of chimes
heard far away at night in the silence of the sea. I thought too, but
perhaps this was fancy, that a thrill passed from the hallowed and
beautiful thing into my body.

On the mystery itself, as it is recorded in the manuscript, I make no
comment. Of it and its inner significations every reader must form his
or her own judgment. One thing alone is clear to me--on the hypothesis
that Mr. Holly tells the truth as to what he and Leo Vincey saw
and experienced, which I at least believe--that though sundry
interpretations of this mystery were advanced by Ayesha and others, none
of them are quite satisfactory.

Indeed, like Mr. Holly, I incline to the theory that She, if I may still
call her by that name although it is seldom given to her in these pages,
put forward some of them, such as the vague Isis-myth, and the wondrous
picture-story of the Mountain-fire, as mere veils to hide the truth
which it was her purpose to reveal at last in that song she never sang.

The Editor.


AYESHA

The Further History of She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed


CHAPTER I

THE DOUBLE SIGN

Hard on twenty years have gone by since that night of Leo's vision--the
most awful years, perhaps, which were ever endured by men--twenty years
of search and hardship ending in soul-shaking wonder and amazement.

My death is very near to me, and of this I am glad, for I desire to
pursue the quest in other realms, as it has been promised to me that I
shall do. I desire to learn the beginning and the end of the spiritual
drama of which it has been my strange lot to read some pages upon earth.

I, Ludwig Horace Holly, have been very ill; they carried me, more dead
than alive, down those mountains whose lowest slopes I can see from my
window, for I write this on the northern frontiers of India. Indeed any
other man had long since perished, but Destiny kept my breath in me,
perhaps that a record might remain. I, must bide here a month or two
till I am strong enough to travel homewards, for I have a fancy to die
in the place where I was born. So while I have strength I will put the
story down, or at least those parts of it that are most essential, for
much can, or at any rate must, be omitted. I shrink from attempting too
long a book, though my notes and memory would furnish me with sufficient
material for volumes.

I will begin with the Vision.

After Leo Vincey and I came back from Africa in 1885, desiring solitude,
which indeed we needed sorely to recover from the fearful shock we had
experienced, and to give us time and opportunity to think, we went to an
old house upon the shores of Cumberland that has belonged to my family
for many generations. This house, unless somebody has taken it believing
me to be dead, is still my property and thither I travel to die.

Those whose eyes read the words I write, if any should ever read them,
may ask--What shock?

Well, I am Horace Holly, and my companion, my beloved friend, my son in
the spirit whom I reared from infancy was--nay, is--Leo Vincey.

We are those men who, following an ancient clue, travelled to the Caves
of Kor in Central Africa, and there discovered her whom we sought,
the immortal _She-who-must-be-obeyed_. In Leo she found her love, that
re-born Kallikrates, the Grecian priest of Isis whom some two thousand
years before she had slain in her jealous rage, thus executing on him
the judgment of the angry goddess. In her also I found the divinity whom
I was doomed to worship from afar, not with the flesh, for that is all
lost and gone from me, but, what is sorer still, because its burden
is undying, with the will and soul which animate a man throughout the
countless eons of his being. The flesh dies, or at least it changes, and
its passions pass, but that other passion of the spirit--that longing
for oneness--is undying as itself.

What crime have I committed that this sore punishment should be laid
upon me? Yet, in truth, is it a punishment? May it not prove to be
but that black and terrible Gate which leads to the joyous palace of
Rewards? She swore that I should ever be her friend and his and dwell
with them eternally, and I believe her.

For how many winters did we wander among the icy hills and deserts!
Still, at length, the Messenger came and led us to the Mountain, and on
the Mountain we found the Shrine, and in the Shrine the Spirit. May not
these things be an allegory prepared for our instruction? I will take
comfort. I will hope that it is so. Nay, I am sure that it is so.

It will be remembered that in Kor we found the immortal woman. There
before the flashing rays and vapours of the Pillar of Life she declared
her mystic love, and then in our very sight was swept to a doom so
horrible that even now, after all which has been and gone, I shiver at
its recollection. Yet what were Ayesha's last words? "_Forget me
not . . . have pity on my shame. I die not. I shall come again and shall
once more be beautiful. I swear it--it is true._"

Well, I cannot set out that history afresh. Moreover it is written; the
man whom I trusted in the matter did not fail me, and the book he made
of it seems to be known throughout the world, for I have found it here
in English, yes, and read it first translated into Hindostani. To it
then I refer the curious.

In that house upon the desolate sea-shore of Cumberland, we dwelt a
year, mourning the lost, seeking an avenue by which it might be found
again and discovering none. Here our strength came back to us, and Leo's
hair, that had been whitened in the horror of the Caves, grew again from
grey to golden. His beauty returned to him also, so that his face was as
it had been, only purified and saddened.

Well I remember that night--and the hour of illumination. We were
heart-broken, we were in despair. We sought signs and could find none.
The dead remained dead to us and no answer came to all our crying.

It was a sullen August evening, and after we had dined we walked upon
the shore, listening to the slow surge of the waves and watching the
lightning flicker from the bosom of a distant cloud. In silence we
walked, till at last Leo groaned--it was more of a sob than a groan--and
clasped my arm.

"I can bear it no longer, Horace," he said--for so he called me now--"I
am in torment. The desire to see Ayesha once more saps my brain. Without
hope I shall go quite mad. And I am strong, I may live another fifty
years."

"What then can you do?" I asked.

"I can take a short road to knowledge--or to peace," he answered
solemnly, "I can die, and die I will--yes, tonight."

I turned upon him angrily, for his words filled me with fear.

"Leo, you are a coward!" I said. "Cannot you bear your part of pain
as--others do?"

"You mean as you do, Horace," he answered with a dreary laugh, "for on
you also the curse lies--with less cause. Well, you are stronger than I
am, and more tough; perhaps because you have lived longer. No, I cannot
bear it. I will die."

"It is a crime," I said, "the greatest insult you can offer to the
Power that made you, to cast back its gift of life as a thing outworn,
contemptible and despised. A crime, I say, which will bring with it
worse punishment than any you can dream; perhaps even the punishment of
everlasting separation."

"Does a man stretched in some torture-den commit a crime if he snatches
a knife and kills himself, Horace? Perhaps; but surely that sin should
find forgiveness--if torn flesh and quivering nerves may plead for
mercy. I am such a man, and I will use that knife and take my chance.
She is dead, and in death at least I shall be nearer her."

"Why so, Leo? For aught you know Ayesha may be living."

"No; for then she would have given me some sign. My mind is made up, so
talk no more, or, if talk we must, let it be of other things."

Then I pleaded with him, though with little hope, for I saw that what I
had feared for long was come to pass. Leo was mad: shock and sorrow
had destroyed his reason. Were it not so, he, in his own way a very
religious man, one who held, as I knew, strict opinions on such matters,
would never have purposed to commit the wickedness of suicide.

"Leo," I said, "are you so heartless that you would leave me here alone?
Do you pay me thus for all my love and care, and wish to drive me to my
death? Do so if you will, and my blood be on your head."

"Your blood! Why your blood, Horace?"

"Because that road is broad and two can travel it. We have lived long
years together and together endured much; I am sure that we shall not be
long parted."

Then the tables were turned and he grew afraid for me. But I only
answered, "If you die I tell you that I shall die also. It will
certainly kill me."

So Leo gave way. "Well," he exclaimed suddenly, "I promise you it shall
not be to-night. Let us give life another chance."

"Good," I answered; but I went to my bed full of fear. For I was certain
that this desire of death, having once taken hold of him, would grow
and grow, until at length it became too strong, and then--then I should
wither and die who could not live on alone. In my despair I threw out my
soul towards that of her who was departed.

"Ayesha!" I cried, "if you have any power, if in any way it is
permitted, show that you still live, and save your lover from this sin
and me from a broken heart. Have pity on his sorrow and breathe hope
into his spirit, for without hope Leo cannot live, and without him I
shall not live."

Then, worn out, I slept.

I was aroused by the voice of Leo speaking to me in low, excited tones
through the darkness.

"Horace," he said, "Horace, my friend, my father, listen!"

In an instant I was wide awake, every nerve and fibre of me, for the
tones of his voice told me that something had happened which bore upon
our destinies.

"Let me light a candle first," I said.

"Never mind the candle, Horace; I would rather speak in the dark. I went
to sleep, and I dreamed the most vivid dream that ever came to me. I
seemed to stand under the vault of heaven, it was black, black, not a
star shone in it, and a great loneliness possessed me. Then suddenly
high up in the vault, miles and miles away, I saw a little light and
thought that a planet had appeared to keep me company. The light began
to descend slowly, like a floating flake of fire. Down it sank, and down
and down, till it was but just above me, and I perceived that it was
shaped like a tongue or fan of flame. At the height of my head from the
ground it stopped and stood steady, and by its ghostly radiance I saw
that beneath was the shape of a woman and that the flame burned upon her
forehead. The radiance gathered strength and now I saw the woman.

"Horace, it was Ayesha herself, her eyes, her lovely face, her cloudy
hair, and she looked at me sadly, reproachfully, I thought, as one might
who says, 'Why did you doubt?'

"I tried to speak to her but my lips were dumb. I tried to advance and
to embrace her, my arms would not move. There was a barrier between us.
She lifted her hand and beckoned as though bidding me to follow her.

"Then she glided away, and, Horace, my spirit seemed to loose itself
from the body and to be given the power to follow. We passed swiftly
eastward, over lands and seas, and--I knew the road. At one point
she paused and I looked downwards. Beneath, shining in the moonlight,
appeared the ruined palaces of Kor, and there not far away was the gulf
we trod together.

"Onward above the marshes, and now we stood upon the Ethiopian's Head,
and gathered round, watching us earnestly, were the faces of the Arabs,
our companions who drowned in the sea beneath. Job was among them also,
and he smiled at me sadly and shook his head, as though he wished to
accompany us and could not.

"Across the sea again, across the sandy deserts, across more sea, and
the shores of India lay beneath us. Then northward, ever northward,
above the plains, till we reached a place of mountains capped with
eternal snow. We passed them and stayed for an instant above a building
set upon the brow of a plateau. It was a monastery, for old monks droned
prayers upon its terrace. I shall know it again, for it is built in the
shape of a half-moon and in front of it sits the gigantic, ruined statue
of a god who gazes everlastingly across the desert. I knew, how I cannot
say, that now we were far past the furthest borders of Thibet and that
in front of us lay untrodden lands. More mountains stretched beyond that
desert, a sea of snowy peaks, hundreds and hundreds of them.

"Near to the monastery, jutting out into the plain like some rocky
headland, rose a solitary hill, higher than all behind. We stood upon
its snowy crest and waited, till presently, above the mountains and the
desert at our feet shot a sudden beam of light that beat upon us like
some signal flashed across the sea. On we went, floating down the
beam--on over the desert and the mountains, across a great flat land
beyond, in which were many villages and a city on a mound, till we lit
upon a towering peak. Then I saw that this peak was loop-shaped like the
symbol of Life of the Egyptians--the _crux-ansata_--and supported by
a lava stem hundreds of feet in height. Also I saw that the fire which
shone through it rose from the crater of a volcano beyond. Upon the very
crest of this loop we rested a while, till the Shadow of Ayesha pointed
downward with its hand, smiled and vanished. Then I awoke.

"Horace, I tell you that the sign has come to us."

His voice died away in the darkness, but I sat still, brooding over what
I had heard. Leo groped his way to me and, seizing my arm, shook it.

"Are you asleep?" he asked angrily. "Speak, man, speak!"

"No," I answered, "never was I more awake. Give me time."

Then I rose, and going to the open window, drew up the blind and stood
there staring at the sky, which grew pearl-hued with the first faint
tinge of dawn. Leo came also and leant upon the window-sill, and I could
feel that his body was trembling as though with cold. Clearly he was
much moved.

"You talk of a sign," I said to him, "but in your sign I see nothing but
a wild dream."

"It was no dream," he broke in fiercely; "it was a vision."

"A vision then if you will, but there are visions true and false, and
how can we know that this is true? Listen, Leo. What is there in all
that wonderful tale which could not have been fashioned in your own
brain, distraught as it is almost to madness with your sorrow and your
longings? You dreamed that you were alone in the vast universe. Well, is
not every living creature thus alone? You dreamed that the shadowy shape
of Ayesha came to you. Has it ever left your side? You dreamed that she
led you over sea and land, past places haunted by your memory, above the
mysterious mountains of the Unknown to an undiscovered peak. Does she
not thus lead you through life to that peak which lies beyond the Gates
of Death? You dreamed----"

"Oh! no more of it," he exclaimed. "What I saw, I saw, and that I shall
follow. Think as you will, Horace, and do what you will. To-morrow I
start for India, with you if you choose to come; if not, without you."

"You speak roughly, Leo," I said. "You forget that _I_ have had no sign,
and that the nightmare of a man so near to insanity that but a few hours
ago he was determined upon suicide, will be a poor staff to lean on when
we are perishing in the snows of Central Asia. A mixed vision, this of
yours, Leo, with its mountain peak shaped like a _crux-ansata_ and the
rest. Do you suggest that Ayesha is re-incarnated in Central Asia--as a
female Grand Lama or something of that sort?"

"I never thought of it, but why not?" asked Leo quietly. "Do you
remember a certain scene in the Caves of Kor yonder, when the living
looked upon the dead, and dead and living were the same? And do you
remember what Ayesha swore, that she would come again--yes, to this
world; and how could that be except by re-birth, or, what is the same
thing, by the transmigration of the spirit?"

I did not answer this argument. I was struggling with myself.

"No sign has come to me," I said, "and yet I have had a part in the
play, humble enough, I admit, and I believe that I have still a part."

"No," he said, "no sign has come to you. I wish that it had. Oh! how I
wish you could be convinced as I am, Horace!"

Then we were silent for a long while, silent, with our eyes fixed upon
the sky.

It was a stormy dawn. Clouds in fantastic masses hung upon the ocean.
One of them was like a great mountain, and we watched it idly. It
changed its shape, the crest of it grew hollow like a crater. From this
crater sprang a projecting cloud, a rough pillar with a knob or lump
resting on its top. Suddenly the rays of the risen sun struck upon this
mountain and the column and they turned white like snow. Then as though
melted by those fiery arrows, the centre of the excrescence above the
pillar thinned out and vanished, leaving an enormous loop of inky cloud.

"Look," said Leo in a low, frightened voice, "that is the shape of the
mountain which I saw in my vision. There upon it is the black loop, and
there through it shines the fire. _It would seem that the sign is for
both of us, Horace._"

I looked and looked again till presently the vast loop vanished into the
blue of heaven. Then I turned and said--"I will come with you to Central
Asia, Leo."


CHAPTER II

THE LAMASERY

Sixteen years had passed since that night vigil in the old Cumberland
house, and, behold! we two, Leo and I, were still travelling, still
searching for that mountain peak shaped like the Symbol of Life which
never, never could be found.

Our adventures would fill volumes, but of what use is it to record them.
Many of a similar nature are already written of in books; those that we
endured were more prolonged, that is all. Five years we spent in Thibet,
for the most part as guests of various monasteries, where we studied the
law and traditions of the Lamas. Here we were once sentenced to death in
punishment for having visited a forbidden city, but escaped through the
kindness of a Chinese official.

Leaving Thibet, we wandered east and west and north, thousands and
thousands of miles, sojourning amongst many tribes in Chinese territory
and elsewhere, learning many tongues, enduring much hardship. Thus we
would hear a legend of a place, say nine hundred miles away, and spend
two years in reaching it, to find when we came there, nothing.

And so the time went on. Yet never once did we think of giving up the
quest and returning, since, before we started, we had sworn an oath that
we would achieve or die. Indeed we ought to have died a score of times,
yet always were preserved, most mysteriously preserved.

Now we were in country where, so far as I could learn, no European had
ever set a foot. In a part of the vast land called Turkestan there is a
great lake named Balhkash, of which we visited the shores. Two hundred
miles or so to the westward is a range of mighty mountains marked on the
maps as Arkarty-Tau, on which we spent a year, and five hundred or so to
the eastward are other mountains called Cherga, whither we journeyed at
last, having explored the triple ranges of the Tau.

Here it was that at last our true adventures began. On one of the spurs
of these awful Cherga mountains--it is unmarked on any map--we well-nigh
perished of starvation. The winter was coming on and we could find no
game. The last traveller we had met, hundreds of miles south, told us
that on that range was a monastery inhabited by Lamas of surpassing
holiness. He said that they dwelt in this wild land, over which no power
claimed dominion and where no tribes lived, to acquire "merit," with no
other company than that of their own pious contemplations. We did not
believe in its existence, still we were searching for that monastery,
driven onward by the blind fatalism which was our only guide through
all these endless wanderings. As we were starving and could find no
"argals," that is fuel with which to make a fire, we walked all night by
the light of the moon, driving between us a single yak--for now we had
no attendant, the last having died a year before.

He was a noble beast, that yak, and had the best constitution of any
animal I ever knew, though now, like his masters, he was near his end.
Not that he was over-laden, for a few rifle cartridges, about a hundred
and fifty, the remnant of a store which we had fortunately been able to
buy from a caravan two years before, some money in gold and silver, a
little tea and a bundle of skin rugs and sheepskin garments were his
burden. On, on we trudged across a plateau of snow, having the great
mountains on our right, till at length the yak gave a sigh and stopped.
So we stopped also, because we must, and wrapping ourselves in the skin
rugs, sat down in the snow to wait for daylight.

"We shall have to kill him and eat his flesh raw," I said, patting the
poor yak that lay patiently at our side.

"Perhaps we may find game in the morning," answered Leo, still hopeful.

"And perhaps we may not, in which case we must die."

"Very good," he replied, "then let us die. Henry VI. created thirty-six
knights on his coronation; Edward IV.
thirty-two; and Charles II. sixty-eight.

The marriages of the royal family, the birth of heirs to the crown,
and the fitting out of military expeditions of importance, furnish other
accessions to the order during this long period.

After the reign of Charles II. this part of the ceremonial was omitted;
and the order, in fact, discontinued until the accession of the House of
Brunswick[47].

The princes of this august house, however, have not revived the custom of
an extraordinary creation of knights as a part of the coronation
ceremonies.

The other ancient and disused custom of a royal progress from the Tower
to Westminster is a theme of admiration with several of our old
chroniclers, and must have been a highly interesting and popular
accompaniment of the royal pageant.

The monarch, ordinarily, dined at the Tower on the day after the
creation of the Knights of the Bath; and devoted the greater part of the
day, _after_ dinner, to this prolonged exhibition of himself to the
people.

Charles II. dined at what is called an "early" hour, in the "account"
of sir Edward Walker, i.e. nine o'clock in the morning, on this
occasion.

Froissart thus gives us the progress of Henry IV. "The duke of Lancaster
left the Tower this Sunday after dinner, on his return to
Westminster:
he was bare-headed, and had round his neck the order of the king of
France.

The prince of Wales, six dukes, six earls, eighteen barons, accompanied
him; and there were, of knights and other nobility, from eight to nine
hundred horse with the procession. The duke was dressed in a jacket of
the German fashion, of cloth of gold, mounted on a white courser,
with a blue garter on his left leg. He passed through the streets of
London, which were all handsomely decorated with tapestries and other
rich hangings: there were nine fountains in Cheapside, and other streets
he passed through, which perpetually ran with white and red wines. He was
escorted by prodigious numbers of gentlemen, with their servants
in liveries and badges; and the different companies of London were
led by their wardens, clothed in their proper livery, and with
ensigns of their trade.

The whole cavalcade amounted to six thousand horse, which escorted the
duke from the Tower to Westminster[48]."
Or, as Shakspeare brings every movement of a similar procession of
this monarch before us,
"Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed, Which his aspiring rider seemed
to know, With slow but stately pace, kept on his course:
While all tongues cried, God save thee, Bolingbroke!

You would have thought the very windows spake, So many greedy looks of
young and old Through casements darted their desiring eyes Upon his
visage; and that all the walls With painted imagery had said at once
Jesu preserve thee! welcome Bolingbroke!
Whilst he, from one side to the other turning, Bare-headed, lower than
his proud steed's neck, Bespoke them thus; I thank you, countrymen; And
thus still doing, thus he past along[49]."
The coronation of Elizabeth the queen of Henry VII. includes one of
the most splendid royal progresses on record. It will be recollected
by our readers that this prince exhibited a strong personal reluctance
to marry Elizabeth as well as to her subsequent coronation; although
his union with her extinguished the bloody feuds of the houses of
York and Lancaster, and bequeathed to posterity the invaluable boon
of an undisputed succession to the throne.

The Commons, in presenting him on his accession with the usual grant of
tonnage and poundage, took the liberty to add their desire that he would
"take to wife and consort the Princess Elizabeth, which marriage they
hoped God would bless with a progeny of the race of kings," (_de
stirpe regum_[50], the united race, perhaps, is meant).

But it was not until a pretender to the throne had shaken the regal
authority to its base, that, eighteen months after his marriage, he
prepared for the coronation of his queen. A very superior modern
historian[51] thus expresses the feelings of the prince and people
on this occasion:--
"From this insurrection [that which was terminated by the battle of Stoke]
the king learned an important lesson, that it was not his interest
to wound the feelings of those whose principles had attached them
to the house of York.

His behaviour to the queen had created great discontent. Why, it was asked,
was she not crowned? Why was she, the rightful heir to the crown, refused
the usual honours of royalty? Other kings had been eager to crown their
consorts: but Elizabeth had now been married a year and a half; she had
borne the king a son to succeed to the throne; and yet she was
kept in obscurity, as if she were unworthy her station."

The orders which he now gave, therefore, for her public investiture with
the royal dignity, were calculated fully to conciliate the popular
feeling. On the Friday preceding her coronation fourteen gentlemen were
created knights of the Bath, and on the same day "the queene's good
grace, royally apparelled, and accompanyed with my ladie the king's
mother, and many other great estates, bothe lordes and ladies, richely
besene, came forward to the coronacion; and, at their coming furth
from Grenewich by water, there was attending upon her there, the
maior, shrifes, and aldermen of the citie, and divers and many
worshipfull comoners, chosen out of every craft, in their levereyes,
in barges freshly furnished with banners and stremers of silke,
richely beaton with the armes and bagges of their craftes; and, in
especially, a barge called the bachelor's barge, garnished and
apparelled passing all other; wherein was ordeynid a great redde
dragon spowting flames of fyer into the Thamess, and many other
gentlemanlie pagiaunts, well and curiously devised to do her highness
sporte and pleasoure with.

And her grace, thus royally apparelled and accompanied, and also
furnished in every behalf with trumpettes, claryons, and other
mynstrelleys as apperteynid and was fitting to her estate roial, came
from Grenewich aforesaid, and landed at the Toure wharfe, and enterid
into the Toure; where the king's highnes welcomed her in such maner and
fourme as was to all the estates and others there being present,
a very good sight, and right joyous and comfortable to beholde[52]."

Next day she went in procession from the Tower to Westminster,
dressed in white cloth of gold of damask, with a mantle of the same
furred with ermine.

Reclining on a litter, she wore "Her faire yelow haire hanging downe
plaine behynd her bak, with a calle of pipes over it;" and confined only
on the forehead by a circlet of gold, ornamented with precious
stones.

An elegant canopy of cloth of gold was borne over her by four knights of
the body; and immediately behind her rode four baronesses on grey
palfreys. The streets on this occasion were "clensed, dressed, and
beseene with clothes of tapestrie and arras; and some, as Cheepe,
hanged with rich clothe of golde, velvet, and silke; and along the
streets, from the Toure to Powles, stode in order all the craftes
of London in their liveries; and in divers places of the citie were
ordeynid singing children, some arayed like angelles, and other
like virgins, to sing swete songes as her grace passed by[53]."

Similar accounts are given by Hall of the progress of Henry VIII. and
Catherine of Arragon through the city. "The streates were railed and
barred on the one side; from over ageynst Grace churche unto Bredstreate
in Chepeside, where every occupacion stode in their liveries in
ordre, beginnyng with base and meane occupacions, and so ascendyng to
the worshipfull craftes; highest and lastly stode the maior with the
aldermen.

The goldsmithes stalles, unto the ende of the Olde Chaunge, beeing
replenished with virgins in white, with braunches of white waxe;
the priestes and clerkes in rich copes with crosses and censers of
silver, censying his grace and the quene also as they passed[54]."

The latter was borne on a litter by two white palfreys, trapped in cloth
of gold.

Anne Boleyn's progress must not be unnoticed. Like Elizabeth's, it began
with a voyage from Greenwich, and the creation of a due number of
knights "bathed and shryven according to the old vsuage of England."

--"The high stretes where the queene should passe were all graveled from
the Toure to Temple barre, and railed on the one side; within whiche
rayle stode the craftes along in their order. And before the quene
and her traine should come, Cornehill and Gracious Street were
hanged with fyne scarlet, crimson and other greyned clothes, and
in some place with rich arras, tapestry, and carpettes, and the
moste part of the Chepe was hanged with clothe of tyssue, golde,
velvet, and many riche hangings whyche made a goodlie shewe."

Her connexion with the French court, it is to be supposed, suggested
the appearance of "xii Frenchmen, whiche were belongyng to the
Frenche ambassador," coming "fyrst" in her "company--in coats of blewe
velvet, with sleves of yelowe and blewe velvet, and their horses trapped
with close trappers of blewe sarcenet, powdered with white crosses."

The French ambassador also rode before her.

At Gracious Church street was a costly and a marveilous connyng pageaunt,
made by the merchauntes of the Styllarde, for there was the Mount
Penasus, with the fountayne of Helycon, which was of white marble,
and iiii streames, without pype, did rise an elle hye and mette
together in a litle cuppe above the fountain, which ranne abundantly
Racke and Rennishe wyne 'til night!

On the mountaine satte Apollo, and at his feete satte Calliope, and on
every side of the mountaine satte iiii Muses playing on several
swete instrumentes, and at their feete Epigrammes and Poyses were
written in golden letters, with the which every Muse, accordyng to
her propertie, praised the Quene.

--"At the conduite in Cornhill there were thre graces set in a throne;
afore whom was the _spryng of grace_ continually ronnyng--wine!"
At the cross in Chepe, "Master Baker, the recorder, with lowe reverence,
makyng a proper and briefe proposicion--gave to her, in the name of
the citie, 1000 marks of golde in a purse of golde[55]." This was the
last time (we mean no reflection on its inhabitants,) that the Muses
and Graces exhibited themselves on such an occasion in the city.

Hereafter the zeal of contending religious parties in the state
taught them to choose other emblems of their desires and
anticipations.

Edward VI.'s progress exhibited Valentine and Orson, "in Cheap," at due
distance from whom stood Sapience and the Seven Liberal Sciences,
who "declared certaine goodly speeches," for the instruction of the
young king.

Various other allegorical personages harangued him by the way; but the
most singular spectacle was that whereby "Paul's steple laie at anchor,"
as Holinshed expresses it. An Arragosen made fast a rope to the
battlements of St. Paul's, which was also attached to an anchor at the
gate of the dean's house; and descended upon it in the sight of the
king and assembled populace, to the no small gratification of both.

His sister Mary was welcomed into the city by "one Peter, a Dutchman,"
who placed himself on the weathercock of St.

Paul's, holding "a streamer in his hand five yards long;"
occasionally kneeling down on the said weathercock, "to the great
marvell of the people," and balancing himself sometimes on one foot and
sometimes on another.

In her procession appeared "the ladie Elizabeth and the ladie Anne of
Cleve;" the queen rode in a chariot of cloth of tissue, her sister
following in "another chariot having a covering of cloth of silver."--"She
sat in a gowne of purple velvet, furred with powdered ermins, having on
her head a kall of cloth of tinsell, béeset with pearle and stone,
and above the same, vppon her head, a round circlet of gold, béeset
so richlie with pretius stones, that the value thereof was inestimable;
the same kall and circle being so massie and ponderous, that she
was faine to beare vp her head with her hand."

Holinshed is very garrulous on the progress of the Virgin Queen, although
he singularly enough omits all details of the principal parts of her
coronation.

"On Thursdaie the twelfe of Januari (1559), the queene's maiestie remooved
from her palace at Westminster, by water, vnto the tower of London,
the lord mayor and aldermen in their barge, and all the citizens
with their barges decked and trimmed with targets and banners of
their mysteries accordinglie, attending on her grace.

The bachellers barge of the lord maior's companie, to wit, the mercers',
had their barge with a foist trimmed with three tops, and artillerie
aboord, gallantlie appointed to wait vpon them, shooting off lustilie
as they went, with great and pleasant melodie of instruments, which
plaied in most swete and heavenlie maner.

Her grace shut (shot) the bridge about two of the clocke in the after
noone, at the still of the ebbe, the lord maior and the rest following
after her barge, attending the same, till her maiestie tooke lande at
the privie staires at the tower wharfe."
"At her entring the citie" a variety of pageants were prepared to express
the "praiers, wishes, and welcommings" of her loving people, which we
cannot attempt to particularize.

"If a man should saie well," remarks our chronicler, "he could not
better terme the citie of London that time than a stage wherein was
shewed the woonderfull spectacle of a noble hearted princesse toward
her most loving people, and the people's exceeding comfort in
beholding so woorthie a soveraigne, and hearing so princelike a
voice."

The Muses had, indeed, quitted "the citie"--and miserable enough are the
ditties which Holinshed gives us from the mouth of the various children
"who expounded the pageants:" some appropriate devices were,
however, mixed up with much child's-play.

The union of the red and white roses on the marriage of Henry VII. (the
queen's grandfather) with Elizabeth of York, was commemorated by
personages representing the king and queen, sitting with hands joined
together by the ring of matrimony; "and all emptie places of this pageant
were furnished with sentences concerning vnitie."

--"This pageant was grounded upon the queen's name," adds our historian,
"For like as the long warre betweene the two houses of Yorke and
Lancaster then ended, when Elizabeth, daughter to Edward the Fourth,
matched in marriage with Henrie the Seventh, heire to the house of
Lancaster: so--the queene maiestie's name was Elizabeth, and for so
much as she is the onlie heir of Henrie the Eighth, which came of both
houses, [she was] the knitting vp of concord." The eight beatitudes
expressed in the fifth chapter of the gospell of Saint Matthew
"applied to our soveraigne ladie Elizabeth," were at "Soper Lane end,"
in Chepe:
but the pageant presenting an English Bible to the queen was
particularly well devised.

Our readers will take the poetry as by far the best specimen of the
productions of the day. Between two hills, representing a flourishing
and a decayed commonwealth, "was made artificiallie one hollow place
or cave, with doore and locke inclosed, out of the which, a little
before the queenes' highnesse commyng thither, issued one personage,
whose name was Time, apparalled as an old man, with a sieth in his hand,
havinge winges artificiallie made, leading a personage of lesser
stature than himselfe, which was finelie and well apparalled, all
clad in white silke, and directly over her head was set her name
and title in Latin and English, Temporis filia, the daughter of Time.

Which two, as appointed, went forwards toward the south side of the
pageants, and on her brest was written her proper name, which was Veritas,
Truth, who held a book in her hand, upon the which was written Verbum
Veritas, the Word of Truth. And out of the south side of the pageant
was cast a standing for a child, which should interpret the same
pageant.

Against whom when the queen's maiestie came, he spake vnto her grace
these sweet words:--
"This old man with a sieth Old father Time they call, And her his
daughter Truth, Which holdeth yonder booke:
Whome he out of his nooke Hath brought foorth to us all, From whence
this manie yeares She durst not once out looke.

"Now sith that Time againe His daughter Truth hath brought, We trust, ô
worthie queene, Thou wilt this truth embrace, And sith thou vnderstandst
The good estate and naught, We trust wealth thou wilt plant, And
barrenesse displace.

"But for to heale the sore And cure that is not seene; Which thing the
booke of truth, Dooth teach in writing plaine:
Shee doth present to thee The same, ô worthie queene, For that, that words
doo flie, But written dooth remaine."
"Thus the queene's highnesse passed through the citie, which, without
anie foreigne person, of itself beautified itselfe, and received
her grace at all places, as hath been before mentioned, with most
tender obedience and love, due to so gratious a queene and sovereigne
a ladie."

JAMES I. made the most important "progress" for himself and family
that we have yet recorded; when, as tranquilly as ever the crown of
England had descended from father to son, the house of Stuart succeeded
that of Tudor on the throne of Great Britain. Nor was his journey
from Edinburgh to London unobserved by the people. They are said
to have contrasted his hauteur and reserve at this period with the
well-remembered affability and popular manner of Elizabeth on such
occasions; but neither does his coronation progress, nor that of his
immediate successors, Charles I. or II. (with whom this usage terminated)
present any new features of interest. The great object of the conductors
of the ceremony was to conform to the ancient precedents; while the
personal disposition of each of the sovereigns of this house was to
retain as much of the demi-god as possible in these stately movements
of the monarch.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 33: Being first given by Sandford to his description of
this part of the ceremony of James II.'

s coronation.]
[Footnote 34: Doleman's Conferences concerning Succession, &c.]
[Footnote 35: MS. Cott. Nero, c. ix. p. 172.]

[Footnote 36: See his curious Speech in M. Paris, Hist. Major, 1640,
p.
197.]
[Footnote 37: Hoveden, Walsingham, &c. are quoted to this effect by
Taylor.]
[Footnote 38: History of the Anglo-Saxons, b. iv. chap. 1.]
[Footnote 39: Titles of Honour, p. ii. c. v. 26.]
[Footnote 40: Wharton's Troubles of Archbishop Laud, p. 324.]
[Footnote 41: Inserted on the union with Scotland, in 1707.]
[Footnote 42: In the oath recently taken by His Majesty the latter members
of this clause, read 'within England and Ireland, and the territories
thereunto belonging.']
[Footnote 43: Stow's Annals.]
[Footnote 44: In France we read of the exaltation of king Pharamond
on a shield, so early as the year 420; of the chairing of Gunbald,
king of Burgundy, A.D. 500, in which that prince fell from the
supporting arms of his subjects, nearly to the ground; and of king
Pepin being elevated on a target in 751.

(Greg. Turon. Hist. lib. vii. cap. 10. Mezeray Hist.
de Pepin, &c.) In Navarre, the king and queen, after being anointed,
were thrice elevated before the altar on a shield emblazoned with
the arms of the kingdom, and upheld by six staves.]

[Footnote 45: Thus in the ordo of Henry VII.'s coronation; "the cardinal,"
it is said, "sitting, shall anoynte the king, kneeling."--IVE'S _Papers_.]

[Footnote 46: Vide Taylor's Additional Notes, p. 347, &c.]
[Footnote 47: It will complete the sketch of the history of an institution
closely connected with our subject, to observe, that George I. on
restoring it in 1725, constituted it a regular military order of thirty-six
companions and one grand-master, having as officers a dean, genealogist,
king at arms, register, secretary, usher and messenger; and a seal,
on one side of which is the figure of the king on horseback in
complete armour, the shield azure and three imperial crowns with
the circumscription, _Sigillum Honoratissimi Militaris Ordinis De
Balneo_; and on the reverse the same, impaling the royal arms.

The badge of the order exhibits a happy specimen of the art of
moulding old institutions to modern purposes. It consists of a rose,
thistle and shamrock, issuing from a sceptre surrounded by three
imperial crowns, enclosed within the ancient motto _Tria juncta in
uno_. Of pure gold chased and pierced, it is worn by the knight elect
pendant from a red riband across the right shoulder. The collar is also
of gold, weighing thirty ounces troy, and is composed of nine imperial
crowns, and eight roses, thistles, and shamrocks, issuing from a sceptre,
enamelled in proper colours, tied or linked together with seventeen
gold knots, enamelled white, and having the badge of the order
pendant from it.

The star consists of three imperial crowns of gold, surrounded by the
motto upon a circle of red, with rays issuing from the silver centre
forming a star, and is embroidered on the left side of the upper
garment.

The installation dress is a surcoat of white satin, a mantle of
crimson satin lined with white, tied at the neck with a cordon of crimson
silk and gold, with gold tassels, and the star of the order
embroidered on the left shoulder; a white silk hat adorned with a
standing plume of white ostrich feathers, white leather boots, edged
and heeled, spurs of crimson and gold, a sword in a white leather
scabbard with cross hilts of gold.

Each knight is allowed three squires, who must be gentlemen of blood,
bearing coat armour, and who are entitled during life to all the
privileges and exemptions enjoyed by the esquires of the sovereign's
body, or the gentlemen of the privy chamber.

We need hardly add, that both in the number of knights and the brilliancy
of its appearance, this order maintained its full splendor at the
coronation of the fourth sovereign of the House of Brunswick.]
[Footnote 48: Johnes' Froissart, v. 12. p. 160, 1.]
[Footnote 49: King Richard II.]
[Footnote 50: Rot. Parl, vi. 278.]
[Footnote 51: Lingard's History of England, v. iii. p. 662, 3.]
[Footnote 52: Ives' Coronacion of Queene Elizabeth, p. 120.]

[Footnote 53: Ives' Coronacion of Queene Elizabeth, p. 120.]
[Footnote 54: Hall's Chronicle.]
[Footnote 55: Hall's Chronicle, Henry VIII.]

§3. ANECDOTES OF THE ASSISTANT OFFICES OF THE CORONATION.

The assistant offices of the coronation are, for the far greater
part, ecclesiastical or hereditary. They are connected therefore
with all the religious changes, and family honours of the empire.
The nobility bear in person a part in the royal day, and approach and
actually touch that crown, from which, as the fountain of honour, they
seem to renew, and re-invigorate, their most ancient claims to
distinction: while the metropolitan of the English Church enjoys the
exclusive right of consecrating and crowning the monarch.

As early as the Norman Conquest, this privilege of the see of Canterbury
is spoken of as well-established; and but two subsequent instances occur
of its being overlooked or denied: both remarkably associated with the
history of the papal power in this country[56]. In the first, that
of the coronation by the archbishop of York of prince Henry, son
of Henry II., may be traced the incipient cause of the assassination
of archbishop Becket, whose martyrdom became conducive to the highest
triumphs of that power: in the second, queen Elizabeth's coronation
by Oglethorpe, bishop of Carlisle, and the refusal of all the other
prelates to assist in the ceremony, we behold its dying struggles
for a dominion never more to be renewed.

Mr. Lingard, who, as a Catholic, may be supposed to state these transactions
with a sufficient leaning to his own church, as expressly connects the
murder of Becket with a jealousy on this subject as any other of our
historians. Henry II. had employed the known enemy of the archbishop,
Roger of York, in the consecration of his son above alluded to; but
the primate and the king met on friendly terms at Rouen, in the
following month; they compromised their differences; and the former
set out on his return to his diocese.

Now, as you know, to be
killed by violence means that we must pass sundry incarnations in the
forms of animals, a horrible thing, so we chose the lesser evil and
gave way, and afterwards obtained absolution for our sins from the Great
Lama. Myself I did not see this queen, but I saw the priestess of their
worship--alas! alas!" and Kou-en beat his breast.

"Why alas?" I asked, as unconcernedly as I could, for this story
interested me strangely.

"Why? Oh! because I may have forgotten the army, but I have never
forgotten that priestess, and she has been a great hindrance to me
through many ages, delaying me upon my journey to the Other Side, to the
Shore of Salvation. I, as a humble Lama, was engaged in preparing her
apartment when she entered and threw aside her veil; yes, and perceiving
a young man, spoke to me, asking many questions, and even if I was not
glad to look again upon a woman."

"What--what was she like?" said Leo, anxiously.

"What was she like? Oh! She was all loveliness in one shape; she was
like the dawn upon the snows; she was like the evening star above the
mountains; she was like the first flower of the spring. Brother, ask me
not what she was like, nay, I will say no more. Oh! my sin, my sin. I am
slipping backward and you draw my black shame out into the light of day.
Nay, I will confess it that you may know how vile a thing I am--I whom
perhaps you have thought holy--like yourselves. That woman, if woman
she were, lit a fire in my heart which will not burn out, oh! and more,
more," and Kou-en rocked himself to and fro upon his stool while tears
of contrition trickled from beneath his horn spectacles, "_she made me
worship her!_ For first she asked me of my faith and listened eagerly as
I expounded it, hoping that the light would come into her heart; then,
after I had finished she said--"'So your Path is Renunciation and your
Nirvana a most excellent Nothingness which some would think it scarce
worth while to strive so hard to reach. Now _I_ will show you a more
joyous way and a goddess more worthy of your worship.'

"'What way, and what goddess?' I asked of her.

"'The way of Love and Life!" she answered, 'that makes all the world
to be, that made _you_, O seeker of Nirvana, and the goddess called
Nature!'

"Again I asked where is that goddess, and behold! she drew herself up,
looking most royal, and touching her ivory breast, she said, 'I am She.
Now kneel you down and do me homage!'

"My brethren, I knelt, yes, I kissed her foot, and then I fled away
shamed and broken-hearted, and as I went she laughed, and cried:
'Remember me when you reach Devachan, O servant of the Budda-saint, for
though I change, I do not die, and even there I shall be with you who
once gave me worship!'

"And it is so, my brethren, it is so; for though I obtained absolution
for my sin and have suffered much for it through this, my next
incarnation, yet I cannot be rid of her, and for me the Utter Peace is
far, far away," and Kou-en placed his withered hands before his face and
sobbed outright.

A ridiculous sight, truly, to see a holy Khublighan well on the wrong
side of eighty, weeping like a child over a dream of a beautiful woman
which he imagined he had once dreamt in his last life more than two
thousand years ago. So the reader will say. But I, Holly, for reasons
of my own, felt deep sympathy with that poor old man, and Leo was also
sympathetic. We patted him on the back; we assured him that he was
the victim of some evil hallucination which could never be brought up
against him in this or any future existence, since, if sin there were,
it must have been forgiven long ago, and so forth. When his calm was
somewhat restored we tried also to extract further information from him,
but with poor results, so far as the priestess was concerned.

He said that he did not know to what religion she belonged, and did not
care, but thought that it must be an evil one. She went away the next
morning with the army, and he never saw or heard of her any more, though
it came into his mind that he was obliged to be locked in his cell for
eight days to prevent himself from following her. Yes, he had heard one
thing, for the abbot of that day had told the brethren. This priestess
was the real general of the army, not the king or the queen, the latter
of whom hated her. It was by her will that they pushed on northwards
across the desert to some country beyond the mountains, where she
desired to establish herself and her worship.

We asked if there really was any country beyond the mountains, and
Kou-en answered wearily that he believed so. Either in this or in a
previous life he had heard that people lived there who worshipped fire.
Certainly also it was true that about thirty years ago a brother who had
climbed the great peak yonder to spend some days in solitary meditation,
returned and reported that he had seen a marvellous thing, namely, a
shaft of fire burning in the heavens beyond those same mountains, though
whether this were a vision, or what, he could not say. He recalled,
however, that about that time they had felt a great earthquake.

Then the memory of that fancied transgression again began to afflict
Kou-en's innocent old heart, and he crept away lamenting and was seen no
more for a week. Nor would he ever speak again to us of this matter.

But we spoke of it much with hope and wonder, and made up our minds that
we would at once ascend this mountain.


CHAPTER III

THE BEACON LIGHT

A week later came our opportunity of making this ascent of the mountain,
for now in mid-winter it ceased storming, and hard frost set in, which
made it possible to walk upon the surface of the snow. Learning from
the monks that at this season _ovis poli_ and other kinds of big-horned
sheep and game descended from the hills to take refuge in certain
valleys, where they scraped away the snow to find food, we announced
that we were going out to hunt. The excuse we gave was that we were
suffering from confinement and needed exercise, having by the teaching
of our religion no scruples about killing game.

Our hosts replied that the adventure was dangerous, as the weather might
change at any moment. They told us, however, that on the slopes of this
very mountain which we desired to climb, there was a large natural cave
where, if need be, we could take shelter, and to this cave one of them,
somewhat younger and more active than the rest, offered to guide us. So,
having manufactured a rougri tent from skins, and laden our old yak, now
in the best of condition, with food and garments, on one still morning
we started as soon as it was light. Under the guidance of the monk, who,
notwithstanding his years, walked very well, we reached the northern
slope of the peak before mid-day. Here, as he had said, we found a great
cave of which the opening was protected by an over-hanging ledge of
rock. Evidently this cave was the favourite place of shelter for game at
certain seasons of the year, since in it were heaped vast accumulations
of their droppings, which removed any fear of a lack of fuel.

The rest of that short day we spent in setting up our tent in the cave,
in front of which we lit a large fire, and in a survey of the slopes of
the mountain, for we told the monk that we were searching for the tracks
of wild sheep. Indeed, as it happened, on our way back to the cave we
came across a small herd of ewes feeding upon the mosses in a sheltered
spot where in summer a streamlet ran. Of these we were so fortunate as
to kill two, for no sportsman had ever come here, and they were tame
enough, poor things. As meat would keep for ever in that temperature,
we had now sufficient food to last us for a fortnight, and dragging the
animals down the snow slopes to the cave, we skinned them by the dying
light.

That evening we supped upon fresh mutton, a great luxury, which the
monk enjoyed as much as we did, since, whatever might be his views as to
taking life, he liked mutton. Then we turned into the tent and huddled
ourselves together for warmth, as the temperature must have been some
degrees below zero. The old monk rested well enough, but neither Leo nor
I slept over much, for wonder as to what we might see from the top of
that mountain banished sleep.

Next morning at the dawn, the weather being still favourable, our
companion returned to the monastery, whither we said we would follow him
in a day or two.

Now at last we were alone, and without wasting an instant began our
ascent of the peak. It was many thousand feet high and in certain places
steep enough, but the deep, frozen snow made climbing easy, so that by
midday we reached the top. Hence the view was magnificent. Beneath
us stretched the desert, and beyond it a broad belt of fantastically
shaped, snow-clad mountains, hundreds and hundreds of them; in front, to
the right, to the left, as far as the eye could reach.

"They are just as I saw them in my dream so many years ago," muttered
Leo; "the same, the very same."

"And where was the fiery light?" I asked.

"Yonder, I think;" and he pointed north by east.

"Well, it is not there now," I answered, "and this place is cold."

So, since it was dangerous to linger, lest the darkness should overtake
us on our return journey, we descended the peak again, reaching the cave
about sunset. The next four days we spent in the same way. Every morning
we crawled up those wearisome banks of snow, and every afternoon we
slid and tobogganed down them again, till I grew heartily tired of the
exercise.

On the fourth night, instead of coming to sleep in the tent Leo sat
himself down at the entrance to the cave. I asked him why he did this,
but he answered impatiently, because he wished it, so I left him alone.
I could see, indeed, that he was in a strange and irritable mood, for
the failure of our search oppressed him. Moreover, we knew, both of us,
that it could not be much prolonged, since the weather might break at
any moment, when ascents of the mountain would become impossible.

In the middle of the night I was awakened by Leo shaking me and
saying--"Come here, Horace, I have something to show you."

Reluctantly enough I crept from between the rugs and out of the tent. To
dress there was no need, for we slept in all our garments. He led me
to the mouth of the cave and pointed northward. I looked. The night was
very dark; but far, far away appeared a faint patch of light upon the
sky, such as might be caused by the reflection of a distant fire.

"What do you make of it?" he asked anxiously.

"Nothing in particular," I answered, "it may be anything. The moon--no,
there is none, dawn--no, it is too northerly, and it does not break for
three hours. Something burning, a house, or a funeral pyre, but how can
there be such things here? I give it up."

"I think it is a reflection, and that if we were on the peak we should
see the light which throws it," said Leo slowly.

"Yes, but we are not, and cannot get there in the dark."

"Then, Horace, we must spend a night there."

"It will be our last in this incarnation," I answered with a laugh,
"that is if it comes on to snow."

"We must risk it, or I will risk it. Look, the light has faded;" and
there at least he was right, for undoubtedly it had. The night was as
black as pitch.

"Let's talk it over to-morrow," I said, and went back to the tent, for I
was sleepy and incredulous, but Leo sat on by the mouth of the cave.

At dawn I awoke and found breakfast already cooked.

"I must start early," Leo explained.

"Are you mad?" I asked. "How can we camp on that place?"

"I don't know, but I am going. I must go, Horace."

"Which means that we both must go. But how about the yak?"

"Where we can climb, it can follow," he answered.

So we strapped the tent and other baggage, including a good supply of
cooked meat, upon the beast's back, and started. The tramp was long
since we were obliged to make some detours to avoid slopes of frozen
snow in which, on our previous ascents, we had cut footholds with an
axe, for up these the laden animal could not clamber. Reaching the
summit at length, we dug a hole, and there pitched the tent, piling the
excavated snow about its sides. By this time it began to grow dark, and
having descended into the tent, yak and all, we ate our food and waited.

Oh! what cold was that. The frost was fearful, and at this height a wind
blew whose icy breath passed through all our wrappings, and seemed to
burn our flesh beneath as though with hot irons. It was fortunate that
we had brought the yak, for without the warmth from its shaggy body I
believe that we should have perished, even in our tent. For some hours
we watched, as indeed we must, since to sleep might mean to die, yet saw
nothing save the lonely stars, and heard nothing in that awful silence,
for here even the wind made no noise as it slid across the snows.
Accustomed as I was to such exposure, my faculties began to grow numb
and my eyes to shut, when suddenly Leo said--"Look, below the red star!"

I looked, and there high in the sky was the same curious glow which we
had seen upon the previous night. There was more than this indeed, for
beneath it, almost on a line with us and just above the crests of the
intervening peaks, appeared a faint sheet of fire and revealed against
it, something black. Whilst we watched, the fire widened, spread upwards
and grew in power and intensity. Now against its flaming background the
black object became clearly visible, and lo! it was the top of a soaring
pillar surmounted by a loop. Yes, we could see its every outline. It was
the _crux ansata_, the Symbol of Life itself.

The symbol vanished, the fire sank. Again it blazed up more fiercely
than before and the loop appeared afresh, then once more disappeared.
A third time the fire shone, and with such intensity, that no lightning
could surpass its brilliance. All around the heavens were lit up, and,
through the black needle-shaped eye of the symbol, as from the flare of
a beacon, or the search-light of a ship, one fierce ray shot across the
sea of mountain tops and the spaces of the desert, straight as an arrow
to the lofty peak on which we lay. Yes, it lit upon the snow, staining
it red, and upon the wild, white faces of us who watched, though to the
right and left of us spread thick darkness. My compass lay before me on
the snow, and I could even see its needle; and beyond us the shape of
a white fox that had crept near, scenting food. Then it was gone as
swiftly as it came. Gone too were the symbol and the veil of flame
behind it, only the glow lingered a little on the distant sky.

For awhile there was silence between us, then Leo said--"Do you
remember, Horace, when we lay upon the Rocking Stone where _her_
cloak fell upon me--" as he said the words the breath caught in his
throat--"how the ray of light was sent to us in farewell, and to show us
a path of escape from the Place of Death? Now I think that it has been
sent again in greeting to point out the path to the Place of Life where
Ayesha dwells, whom we have lost awhile."

"It may be so," I answered shortly, for the matter was beyond speech
or argument, beyond wonder even. But I knew then, as I know now that
we were players in some mighty, predestined drama; that our parts were
written and we must speak them, as our path was prepared and we must
tread it to the end unknown. Fear and doubt were left behind, hope was
sunk in certainty; the fore-shadowing visions of the night had found an
actual fulfilment and the pitiful seed of the promise of her who died,
growing unseen through all the cruel, empty years, had come to harvest.

No, we feared no more, not even when with the dawn rose the roaring
wind, through which we struggled down the mountain slopes, as it would
seem in peril of our lives at every step; not even as hour by hour we
fought our way onwards through the whirling snow-storm, that made us
deaf and blind. For we knew that those lives were charmed. We could not
see or hear, yet we were led. Clinging to the yak, we struggled downward
and homewards, till at length out of the turmoil and the gloom its
instinct brought us unharmed to the door of the monastery, where the old
abbot embraced us in his joy, and the monks put up prayers of thanks.
For they were sure that we must be dead. Through such a storm, they
said, no man had ever lived before.

It was still mid-winter, and oh! the awful weariness of those months of
waiting. In our hands was the key, yonder amongst those mountains lay
the door, but not yet might we set that key within its lock. For between
us and these stretched the great desert, where the snow rolled like
billows, and until that snow melted we dared not attempt its passage. So
we sat in the monastery, and schooled our hearts to patience.

Still even to these frozen wilds of Central Asia spring comes at last.
One evening the air felt warm, and that night there were only a few
degrees of frost. The next the clouds banked up, and in the morning
not snow was falling from them, but rain, and we found the old monks
preparing their instruments of husbandry, as they said that the season
of sowing was at hand. For three days it rained, while the snows melted
before our eyes. On the fourth torrents of water were rushing down the
mountain and the desert was once more brown and bare, though not for
long, for within another week it was carpeted with flowers. Then we knew
that the time had come to start.

"But whither go you? Whither go you?" asked the old abbot in dismay.
"Are you not happy here? Do you not make great strides along the Path,
as may be known by your pious conversation? Is not everything that we
have your own? Oh! why would you leave us?"

"We are wanderers," we answered, "and when we see mountains in front of
us we must cross them."

Kou-en looked at us shrewdly, then asked--"What do you seek beyond the
mountains? And, my brethren, what merit is gathered by hiding the truth
from an old man, for such concealments are separated from falsehoods but
by the length of a single barleycorn. Tell me, that at least my prayers
may accompany you."

"Holy abbot," I said, "awhile ago yonder in the library you made a
certain confession to us."

"Oh! remind me not of it," he said, holding up his hands. "Why do you
wish to torment me?"

"Far be the thought from us, most kind friend and virtuous man," I
answered. "But, as it chances, your story is very much our own, and we
think that we have experience of this same priestess."

"Speak on," he said, much interested.

So I told him the outlines of our tale; for an hour or more I told it
while he sat opposite to us swaying his head like a tortoise and saying
nothing. At length it was done.

"Now," I added, "let the lamp of your wisdom shine upon our darkness. Do
you not find this story wondrous, or do you perchance think that we are
liars?"

"Brethren of the great monastery called the World," Kou-en answered
with his customary chuckle, "why should I think you liars who, from the
moment my eyes fell upon you, knew you to be true men? Moreover, why
should I hold this tale so very wondrous? You have but stumbled upon
the fringe of a truth with which we have been acquainted for many, many
ages.

"Because in a vision she showed you this monastery, and led you to a
spot beyond the mountains where she vanished, you hope that this woman
whom you saw die is re-incarnated yonder. Why not? In this there is
nothing impossible to those who are instructed in the truth, though the
lengthening of her last life was strange and contrary to experience.
Doubtless you will find her there as you expect, and doubtless her
_khama_, or identity, is the same as that which in some earlier life of
hers once brought me to sin.

"Only be not mistaken, she is no immortal; nothing is immortal. She is
but a being held back by her own pride, her own greatness if you will,
upon the path towards Nirvana. That pride will be humbled, as already it
has been humbled; that brow of majesty shall be sprinkled with the dust
of change and death, that sinful spirit must be purified by sorrows and
by separations. Brother Leo, if you win her, it will be but to lose, and
then the ladder must be reclimbed. Brother Holly, for you as for me loss
is our only gain, since thereby we are spared much woe. Oh! bide here
and pray with me. Why dash yourselves against a rock? Why labour to pour
water into a broken jar whence it must sink into the sands of profitless
experience, and there be wasted, whilst you remain athirst?"

"Water makes the sand fertile," I answered. "Where water falls, life
comes, and sorrow is the seed of joy."

"Love is the law of life," broke in Leo; "without love there is no
life. I seek love that I may live. I believe that all these things are
ordained to an end which we do not know. Fate draws me on--I fulfil my
fate----"

"And do but delay your freedom. Yet I will not argue with you, brother,
who must follow your own road. See now, what has this woman, this
priestess of a false faith if she be so still, brought you in the past?
Once in another life, or so I understand your story, you were sworn to
a certain nature-goddess, who was named Isis, were you not, and to her
alone? Then a woman tempted you, and you fled with her afar. And there
what found you? The betrayed and avenging goddess who slew you, or if
not the goddess, one who had drunk of her wisdom and was the minister
of her vengeance. Having that wisdom this minister--woman or evil
spirit--refused to die because she had learned to love you, but waited
knowing that in your next life she would find you again, as indeed she
would have done more swiftly in Devachan had she died without living on
alone in so much misery. And she found you, and she died, or seemed to
die, and now she is re-born, as she must be, and doubtless you will
meet once more, and again there must come misery. Oh! my friends, go not
across the mountains; bide here with me and lament your sins."

"Nay," answered Leo, "we are sworn to a tryst, and we do not break our
word."

"Then, brethren, go keep your tryst, and when you have reaped its
harvest think upon my sayings, for I am sure that the wine you crush
from the vintage of your desire will run red like blood, and that in its
drinking you shall find neither forgetfulness nor peace. Made blind by
a passion of which well I know the sting and power, you seek to add a
fair-faced evil to your lives, thinking that from this unity there shall
be born all knowledge and great joy.

"Rather should you desire to live alone in holiness until at length your
separate lives are merged and lost in the Good Unspeakable, the eternal
bliss that lies in the last Nothingness. Ah! you do not believe me now;
you shake your heads and smile; yet a day will dawn, it may be after
many incarnations, when you shall bow them in the dust and weep, saying
to me, 'Brother Kou-en, yours were the words of wisdom, ours the deeds
of foolishness;'" and with a deep sigh the old man turned and left us.

"A cheerful faith, truly," said Leo, looking after him, "to dwell
through aeons in monotonous misery in order that consciousness may be
swallowed up at last in some void and formless abstraction called the
'Utter Peace.' I would rather take my share of a bad world and keep my
hope of a better. Also I do not think that he knows anything of Ayesha
and her destiny."

"So would I," I answered, "though perhaps he is right after all. Who can
tell? Moreover, what is the use of reasoning? Leo, we have no choice;
we follow our fate. To what that fate may lead us we shall learn in due
season."

Then we went to rest, for it was late, though I found little sleep that
night. The warnings of the ancient abbot, good and learned man as he
was, full also of ripe experience and of the foresighted wisdom that
is given to such as he, oppressed me deeply. He promised us sorrow and
bloodshed beyond the mountains, ending in death and rebirths full of
misery. Well, it might be so, but no approaching sufferings could stay
our feet. And even if they could, they should not, since to see her face
again I was ready to brave them all. And if this was my case what must
be that of Leo!

A strange theory that of Kou-en's, that Ayesha was the goddess in
old Egypt to whom Kallikrates was priest, or at the least her
representative. That the royal Amenartas, with whom he fled, seduced him
from the goddess to whom he was sworn. That this goddess incarnate
in Ayesha--or using the woman Ayesha and her passions as her
instruments--was avenged upon them both at Kor, and that there in an
after age the bolt she shot fell back upon her own head.

Well, I had often thought as much myself. Only I was sure that _She_
herself could be no actual divinity, though she might be a manifestation
of one, a priestess, a messenger, charged to work its will, to avenge or
to reward, and yet herself a human soul, with hopes and passions to be
satisfied, and a destiny to fulfil. In truth, writing now, when all is
past and done with, I find much to confirm me in, and little to turn me
from that theory, since life and powers of a quality which are more than
human do not alone suffice to make a soul divine. On the other hand,
however, it must be borne in mind that on one occasion at any rate,
Ayesha did undoubtedly suggest that in the beginning she was "a daughter
of Heaven," and that there were others, notably the old Shaman Simbri,
who seemed to take it for granted that her origin was supernatural. But
of all these things I hope to speak in their season.

Meanwhile what lay beyond the mountains? Should we find her there who
held the sceptre and upon earth wielded the power of the outraged Isis,
and with her, that other woman who wrought the wrong? And if so, would
the dread, inhuman struggle reach its climax around the person of the
sinful priest? In a few months, a few days even, we might begin to know.

Thrilled by this thought at length I fell asleep.


CHAPTER IV

THE AVALANCHE

On the morning of the second day from that night the sunrise found us
already on our path across the desert. There, nearly a mile behind us,
we could see the ruined statue of Buddha seated in front of the ancient
monastery, and in that clear atmosphere could even distinguish the bent
form of our friend, the old abbot, Kou-en, leaning against it until we
were quite lost to sight. All the monks had wept when we parted from
them, and Kou-en even more bitterly than the rest, for he had learned to
love us.

"I am grieved," he said, "much grieved, which indeed I should not be,
for such emotion partakes of sin. Yet I find comfort, for I know well
that although I must soon leave this present life, yet we shall meet
again in many future incarnations, and after you have put away these
follies, together tread the path to perfect peace. Now take with you my
blessings and my prayers and begone, forgetting not that should you live
to return"--and he shook his head, doubtfully--"here you will be ever
welcome."

So we embraced him and went sorrowfully.

It will be remembered that when the mysterious light fell upon us on the
peak I had my compass with me and was able roughly to take its bearings.
For lack of any better guide we now followed these bearings, travelling
almost due north-east, for in that direction had shone the fire. All
day in the most beautiful weather we marched across the flower-strewn
desert, seeing nothing except bunches of game and one or two herds of
wild asses which had come down from the mountains to feed upon the new
grass. As evening approached we shot an antelope and made our camp--for
we had brought the yak and a tent with us--among some tamarisk scrub, of
which the dry stems furnished us with fuel. Nor did we lack for water,
since by scraping in the sand soaked with melted snow, we found plenty
of fair quality. So that night we supped in luxury upon tea and antelope
meat, which indeed we were glad to have, as it spared our little store
of dried provisions.

The next morning we ascertained our position as well as we could, and
estimated that we had crossed about a quarter of the desert, a guess
which proved very accurate, for on the evening of the fourth day of our
journey we reached the bottom slopes of the opposing mountains, without
having experienced either accident or fatigue. As Leo said, things were
"going like clockwork," but I reminded him that a good start often meant
a bad finish. Nor was I wrong, for now came our hardships. To begin
with, the mountains proved to be exceeding high; it took us two days
to climb their lower slopes. Also the heat of the sun had softened the
snow, which made walking through it laborious, whilst, accustomed
though we were to such conditions through long years of travelling, its
continual glitter affected our eyes.

The morning of the seventh day found us in the mouth of a defile which
wound away into the heart of the mountains. As it seemed the only
possible path, we followed it, and were much cheered to discover that
here must once have run a road. Not that we could see any road, indeed,
for everything was buried in snow. But that one lay beneath our feet we
were certain, since, although we marched along the edge of precipices,
our path, however steep, was always flat; moreover, the rock upon one
side of it had often been scarped by the hand of man. Of this there
could be no doubt, for as the snow did not cling here, we saw the tool
marks upon its bare surface.

Also we came to several places where galleries had been built out from
the mountain side, by means of beams let into it, as is still a common
practice in Thibet. These beams of course had long since rotted away,
leaving a gulf between us and the continuation of the path. When we met
with such gaps we were forced to go back and make a detour round or over
some mountain; but although much delayed thereby, as it happened, we
always managed to regain the road, if not without difficulty and danger.

What tried us more--for here our skill and experience as mountaineers
could not help us--was the cold at night, obliged as we were to camp
in the severe frost at a great altitude, and to endure through the long
hours of darkness penetrating and icy winds, which soughed ceaselessly
down the pass.

At length on the tenth day we reached the end of the defile, and as
night was falling, camped there in the most bitter cold. Those were
miserable hours, for now we had no fuel with which to boil water, and
must satisfy our thirst by eating frozen snow, while our eyes smarted
so sorely that we could not sleep, and notwithstanding all our wraps and
the warmth that we gathered from the yak in the little tent, the cold
caused our teeth to chatter like castanets.

The dawn came, and, after it, the sunrise. We crept from the tent, and
leaving it standing awhile, dragged our stiffened limbs a hundred yards
or so to a spot where the defile took a turn, in order that we might
thaw in the rays of the sun, which at that hour could not reach us where
we had camped.

Leo was round it first, and I heard him utter an exclamation. In a few
seconds I reached his side, and lo! before us lay our Promised Land.

Far beneath us, ten thousand feet at least--for it must be remembered
that we viewed it from the top of a mountain--it stretched away and away
till its distances met the horizon. In character it was quite flat, an
alluvial plain that probably, in some primeval age, had been the bottom
of one of the vast lakes of which a number exist in Central Asia, most
of them now in process of desiccation. One object only relieved this
dreary flatness, a single, snow-clad, and gigantic mountain, of which
even at that distance--for it was very far from us--we could clearly see
the outline. Indeed we could see more, for from its rounded crest rose a
great plume of smoke, showing that it was an active volcano, and on the
hither lip of the crater an enormous pillar of rock, whereof the top was
formed to the shape of a loop.

Yes, there it stood before us, that symbol of our vision which we had
sought these many years, and at the sight of it our hearts beat fast and
our breath came quickly. We noted at once that although we had not seen
it during our passage of the mountains, since the peaks ahead and the
rocky sides of the defile hid it from view, so great was its height that
it overtopped the tallest of them. This made it clear to us how it came
to be possible that the ray of light passing through the loop could fall
upon the highest snows of that towering pinnacle which we had climbed
upon the further side of the desert.

Also now we were certain of the cause of that ray, for the smoke behind
the loop explained this mystery. Doubtless, at times when the volcano
was awake, that smoke must be replaced by flame, emitting light of
fearful intensity, and this light it was that reached us, concentrated
and directed by the loop.

For the rest we thought that about thirty miles away we could make out a
white-roofed town set upon a mound, situated among trees upon the banks
of a wide river, which flowed across the plain. Also it was evident that
this country had a large population who cultivated the soil, for by
the aid of a pair of field glasses, one of our few remaining and most
cherished possessions, we could see the green of springing crops pierced
by irrigation canals and the lines of trees that marked the limits of
the fields.

Yes, there before us stretched the Promised Land, and there rose the
mystic Mount, so that all we had to do was to march down the snow slopes
and enter it where we would.

Thus we thought in our folly, little guessing what lay before us, what
terrors and weary suffering we must endure before we stood at length
beneath the shadow of the Symbol of Life.

Our fatigues forgotten, we returned to the tent, hastily swallowed some
of our dried food, which we washed down with lumps of snow that gave us
toothache and chilled us inside, but which thirst compelled us to eat,
dragged the poor yak to its feet, loaded it up, and started.

All this while, so great was our haste and so occupied were each of
us with our own thoughts that, if my memory serves me, we scarcely
interchanged a word. Down the snow slopes we marched swiftly and without
hesitation, for here the road was marked for us by means of pillars of
rock set opposite to one another at intervals. These pillars we observed
with satisfaction, for they told us that we were still upon a highway
which led to the Promised Land.

Yet, as we could not help noting, it was one which seemed to have gone
out of use, since with the exception of a few wild-sheep tracks and the
spoor of some bears and mountain foxes, not a single sign of beast or
man could we discover. This, however, was to be explained, we reflected,
by the fact that doubtless the road was only used in the summer season.
Or perhaps the inhabitants of the country were now stay-at-home people
who never travelled it at all.

Those slopes were longer than we thought; indeed, when darkness closed
in we had not reached the foot of them. So we were obliged to spend
another night in the snow, pitching our tent in the shelter of
an over-hanging rock. As we had descended many thousand feet, the
temperature proved, fortunately, a little milder; indeed, I do not
think that there were more than eighteen or twenty degrees of frost that
night. Also here and there the heat of the sun had melted the snow in
secluded places, so that we were able to find water to drink, while the
yak could fill its poor old stomach with dead-looking mountain mosses,
which it seemed to think better than nothing.

Again, the still dawn came, throwing its red garment over the lonesome,
endless mountains, and we dragged ourselves to our numbed feet, ate some
of our remaining food, and started onwards. Now we could no longer see
the country beneath, for it and even the towering volcano were hidden
from us by an intervening ridge that seemed to be pierced by a single
narrow gulley, towards which we headed. Indeed, as the pillars showed
us, thither ran the buried road. By mid-day it appeared quite close to
us, and we tramped on in feverish haste. As it chanced, however, there
was no need to hurry, for an hour later we learned the truth.

Between us and the mouth of the gulley rose, or rather sank, a sheer
precipice that was apparently three or four hundred feet in depth, and
at its foot we could hear the sound of water.

Right to the edge of this precipice ran the path, for one of the stone
pillars stood upon its extreme brink, and yet how could a road descend
such a place as that? We stared aghast; then a possible solution
occurred to us.

"Don't you see," said Leo, with a hollow laugh, "the gulf has opened
since this track was used: volcanic action probably."

"Perhaps, or perhaps there was a wooden bridge or stairway which has
rotted. It does not matter. We must find another path, that is all," I
answered as cheerfully as I could.

"Yes, and soon," he said, "if we do not wish to stop here for ever."

So we turned to the right and marched along the edge of the precipice
till, a mile or so away, we came to a small glacier, of which the
surface was sprinkled with large stones frozen into its substance. This
glacier hung down the face of the cliff like a petrified waterfall, but
whether or no it reached the foot we could not discover. At any rate,
to think of attempting its descent seemed out of the question. From this
point onwards we could see that the precipice increased in depth and far
as the eye could reach was absolutely sheer.

So we went back again and searched to the left of our road. Here the
mountains receded, so that above us rose a mighty, dazzling slope of
snow and below us lay that same pitiless, unclimbable gulf. As the light
began to fade we perceived, half a mile or more in front a bare-topped
hillock of rock, which stood on the verge of the precipice, and hurried
to it, thinking that from its crest we might be able to discover a way
of descent.

When at length we had struggled to the top, it was about a hundred and
fifty feet high; what we did discover was that, here also, as beyond the
glacier, the gulf was infinitely deeper than at the spot where the road
ended, so deep indeed that we could not see its bottom, although from it
came the sound of roaring water. Moreover, it was quite half a mile in
width.

Whilst we stared round us the sinking sun vanished behind a mountain
and, the sky being heavy, the light went out like that of a candle. Now
the ascent of this hillock had proved so steep, especially at one place,
where we were obliged to climb a sort of rock ladder, that we scarcely
cared to attempt to struggle down it again in that gloom. Therefore,
remembering that there was little to choose between the top of this
knoll and the snow plain at its foot in the matter of temperature or
other conveniences, and being quite exhausted, we determined to spend
the night upon it, thereby, as we were to learn, saving our lives.

Unloading the yak, we pitched our tent under the lee of the topmost knob
of rock and ate a couple of handfuls of dried fish and corn-cake. This
was the last of the food that we had brought with us from the Lamasery,
and we reflected with dismay that unless we could shoot something, our
commissariat was now represented by the carcass of our old friend the
yak. Then we wrapped ourselves up in our thick rugs and fur garments and
forgot our miseries in sleep.

It cannot have been long before daylight when we were awakened by a
sudden and terrific sound like the boom of a great cannon, followed by
thousands of other sounds, which might be compared to the fusillade of
musketry.

"Great Heaven! What is that?" I said.

We crawled from the tent, but as yet could see nothing, whilst the yak
began to low in a terrified manner. But if we could not see we could
hear and feel. The booming and cracking had ceased, and was followed by
a soft, grinding noise, the most sickening sound, I think, to which
I ever listened. This was accompanied by a strange, steady, unnatural
wind, which seemed to press upon us as water presses. Then the dawn
broke and we saw.

The mountain-side was moving down upon us in a vast avalanche of snow.

Oh! what a sight was that. On from the crest of the precipitous slopes
above, two miles and more away, it came, a living thing, rolling,
sliding, gliding; piling itself in long, leaping waves, hollowing itself
into cavernous valleys, like a tempest-driven sea, whilst above its
surface hung a powdery cloud of frozen spray.

As we watched, clinging to each other terrified, the first of these
waves struck our hill, causing the mighty mass of solid rock to quiver
like a yacht beneath the impact of an ocean roller, or an aspen in
a sudden rush of wind. It struck and slowly separated, then with a
majestic motion flowed like water over the edge of the precipice on
either side, and fell with a thudding sound into the unmeasured depths
beneath. And this was but a little thing, a mere forerunner, for after
it, with a slow, serpentine movement, rolled the body of the avalanche.

It came in combers, it came in level floods. It piled itself against our
hill, yes, to within fifty feet of the head of it, till we thought that
even that rooted rock must be torn from its foundations and hurled like
a pebble to the deeps beneath. And the turmoil of it all! The screaming
of the blast caused by the compression of the air, the dull, continuous
thudding of the fall of millions of tons of snow as they rushed through
space and ended their journey in the gulf.

Nor was this the worst of it, for as the deep snows above thinned, great
boulders that had been buried beneath them, perhaps for centuries, were
loosened from their resting-places and began to thunder down the hill.
At first they moved slowly, throwing up the hard snow around them as the
prow of a ship throws foam. Then gathering momentum, they sprang into
the air with leaps such as those of shells ricocheting upon water, till
in the end, singing and hurtling, many of them rushed past and even over
us to vanish far beyond. Some indeed struck our little mountain with the
force of shot fired from the great guns of a battle-ship, and shattered
there, or if they fell upon its side, tore away tons of rock and passed
with them into the chasm like a meteor surrounded by its satellites.
He was now made a new man, and elevated into a new order of beings;
"Consideration, like an angel, came And whipt the offending Adam
out of him; Leaving his body as a paradise, To envelope and contain
celestial spirits[58]."

Hence every part of his office was new and kingly. Froissart describes
the consecration of Henry IV. immediately after the recognition,
thus:
"after this the duke descended from his throne, and advanced to the altar
to be consecrated. This ceremony was performed by two archbishops and
ten bishops: he was stripped of all his royal state before the
altar, naked to his shirt, and was then anointed and consecrated
in six places; that is to say, on the head, the breast, the shoulders,
before and behind, on the back and hands: they then placed a bonnet
on his head; and while this was doing, the clergy chaunted the
litany, a service that is performed to hallow a font[59]."

The lord chamberlain is official governor of the palace for the time
being, and the principal personal attendant of the king.

The _Lord High Constable_ also attends the royal person, assists at the
reception of the regalia from the dean and chapter of Westminster,
and, together with the earl Marshal, ushers the champion into the
hall.

_Of the Royal Championship._
Whether we consider its uninterrupted exercise, and that by one family,
for so many centuries, its feudal import, or its present splendid
and imposing effect, the office of champion certainly eclipses all the
other services of the coronation.

Since the coronation of Richard II. A.D. 1377, (of which there is
in Walsingham a detailed account) this office has been performed
by a Dymoke, the head of the family of that name who have held the
manor of Scrivelsby in Lincolnshire, worth about £1200 per annum,
by the tenure of this service.

During the reigns of Edward II. and III. the right was in dispute:
prior to that period and from the days of the Conqueror it was vested in
the far-famed family of MARMION, whose chief, as
"----Lord of Fontenay, Of Lutterworth and Scrivilbaye, Of Tamworth
tower and town,"
came from Normandy with William, and is there supposed to have held
the first of these possessions, on condition of performing the
service of champion to the successive dukes.

At the conquest the feudal system was established in England in its
maturest and strictest forms; and the present office being the most
perfect relic of that system known to modern times, a slight sketch of
its peculiarities will not be uninteresting.

The foundation of all the subsequent customs of homage, suit, service,
purveyance, &c. is to be traced in the original connexion between the
vassal and his lord, or the chief and his retainers, which Tacitus
notices as remarkable in ancient Germany. According to this, every
follower was to be found fighting by the side of his chief in time of
war, as the very first duty of social life--and in time of peace to look
up to him as the only legitimate fountain of honour and justice.

Certain it is, that this relation was, in substance, as well known and
supported by our Anglo-Saxon ancestors, before the accession of William,
as it was by our Highland neighbours, down to the rebellion in 1745. A
striking instance of the romantic and desperate courage to which it gave
rise occurs as early as the reign of Cynewulf, king of Wessex, A.D.
784.
Sigebircht, the deposed predecessor of this prince, was, in the first
year of his rival's reign, found murdered in the forest of
Andreswald:
but left a brother, of the name of Cyneheard, who cherished for
thirty-one years the secret purpose of avenging his death.

At last he returned, with eighty-four retainers, into the neighbourhood
of Winchester, the royal residence; and, tracing the king to a country
seat at Merton, the abode of a favourite lady, surrounded the house at
midnight.

Cynewulf was quickly roused; but his followers were scattered throughout
the place, and could not be collected until, after a brave personal
conflict with the enemy, the king's life-blood had satiated his
vengeance.

Cyneheard now offered the royal train their liberty and possessions, on
condition of their peaceable departure; but they rejected his proposals
with scorn, and to a man died on the threshold of their master. On the
intelligence reaching the court, in the morning, Osric and Wavirth, two
powerful chieftains, surrounded themselves with their vassals, and rode
to Merton, where they were met by Cyneheard, with professions of
friendship. He called their attention to the injuries of his family, the
duty of avenging which had devolved upon himself; urged his claim
to the vacant throne; made them the most liberal offers, in case
of their acknowledgment of him; and concluded by reminding them,
that many of his adherents were their own near kinsmen.

"Our kinsmen," they indignantly answered, "are not dearer to us than was
our lord. To his murderer we shall never submit. If those who are
related to us wish to save their lives, let them depart." "The same offer,"
rejoined the followers of Cyneheard, "was made to the attendants of the
king, who refused it.

We will prove to-day that our attachment is equal to theirs:" and
Cyneheard, and all his adherents except one, were slain[60].

But the Conqueror, owing his crown to the sword, more strictly
adapted the system which he found in use to his own military notions
and future safety.

Having divided all the principal estates of the country amongst his
vassals, he converted the English military tenures into a regular
obligation, called knights' fees, which compelled each tenant in chief
to have a certain number of knights, or horsemen, always ready to assert
the rights of the crown, and to fight under its banner, in any cause,
"We will," says a law on this subject, yet extant, "that _all_ the freemen
of our kingdom possess their lands in peace, free of all tollage
and unjust exaction: that nothing be required or taken from them
but their free service, which they owe to us of right, as has been
appointed to them, and granted by us with hereditary right for ever,
by the common council of our whole kingdom."

"And we command that all earls, barons, knights, serjeants, and freemen,
be always provided with horses and arms as they ought; and that they
be always ready to perform to us their whole service, in manner
as they owe it to us of right, for their fees and tenements, and
as we have appointed to them by the common council of our whole
kingdom, and as we have granted to them in fee a right of
inheritance[61]."

This free service required the due quota of horsemen, which each vassal
was to furnish, to come, completely armed, on his requisition, and
to be maintained under the royal command, at the charge of the party
sending them, for forty days.

Even the dignitaries of the church, and monastic bodies holding lands,
were not exempt from this service.

Each tenant in chief subdivided his property into sub-vassalships,
imposing a similar service, and carrying downwards all the obligations
of homage, fealty, and personal attendance on all important
occasions.

Out of such a system, that a favoured vassal should be selected to assert
the personal right of the monarch to his throne, will appear very
natural: it is only surprising that the violence and constant habit of
appealing to the sword, in which this with the other feudal claims
originated, should have left it to flow on in such an uninterrupted
course--a course of succession far more regular than the transmission
of the crown it is supposed to defend.

The championship is connected also with a remarkable feature of ancient
jurisprudence, the wager of battle, recently abolished.

This was regarded as an appeal to the judgment of _God_; and succeeded,
at the Conquest, the fires and other ordeals of our ancestors, which the
Normans affected to despise. The reader, however, may be disposed to
conjecture, that as much of the divine interposition might be
expected to decide the healing of a burn or scald, as the issue of
a battle. The older custom was for the accused to plunge his hand into
a cauldron of boiling water, and take out a stone or piece of iron
of a given weight; the depth of the vessel being proportionate to
the magnitude of the crime charged: or for him to seize, at the end
of a religious service, a bar of iron placed on a fire at the
beginning of the service, and run over a certain length of ground
with it: the method in which the wounds healed, in either case,
being the criterion of guilt or innocence.

The wager of battle was certainly of more splendid pretensions, and
was introduced at first with these stipulations. If the opposite
parties were countrymen, they were to follow their national customs,
whatever they were; if the appellee were a foreigner, or of foreign
descent, he might offer wager of battle, and on its being declined,
purge himself by his own oath and that of his witnesses, according to
the Norman law; or if a native of the country, he might have his choice
of the trial by ordeal or by battle.

The solemn feelings and great religious sincerity with which our forefathers
regarded combats of this description, cannot be more powerfully
or more accurately depicted, than in the memorable combat scene of
IVANHOE:--
"The draw-bridge fell, the gates opened, and a knight, bearing the
great standard of the order, sallied from the castle, preceded by
six trumpets, and followed by the knights preceptors, two and two,
the grand master coming last, mounted on a stately horse, whose
furniture was of the simplest kind.

Behind him came Brian de Bois Guilbert, armed cap-a-pee in bright
armour, but without his lance, shield, or sword, which were borne
by his two esquires behind him.--He looked ghastly pale, as if he had
not slept for several nights, yet reined in his pawing war-horse with
the habitual ease and grace proper to the best lance of the Order of
the Temple. His general appearance was grand and commanding; but looking
at him with attention, men read that in his dark features from which we
willingly withdraw our eyes.

"On either side rode Conrade of Mont Fitchet and Albert de Malvoisin,
who acted as godfathers to the champion.

They were in their robes of peace, the white dress of the order.
Behind them followed other knights companions of the Temple, with a
long train of esquires and pages, clad in black, aspirants to the
honour of being one day knights of the order."

After these walked the accused in a coarse white dress, surrounded
by wardens in sable livery.

"The slow procession moved up the gentle eminence, on the summit of which
was the tilt-yard, and entering the lists, marched once around them
from right to left, and when they had completed the circle made a halt.
There was then a momentary bustle while the grand-master and his
attendants" took their places: when "a long and loud flourish of
trumpets announced that the court was seated for judgment. Malvoisin,
then acting as godfather to the champion, stepped forward and laid the
glove of the Jewess, which was the pledge of battle, at the feet
of the grand-master.

"Valourous lord and reverend father," said he, "here standeth the good
knight Brian de Bois Guilbert, knight preceptor of the Order of the
Temple, who by accepting the pledge of battle which I now lay at your
reverence's feet, hath become bound to do his devoir in combat this
day, to maintain that this Jewish maiden, by name Rebecca, hath justly
deserved the doom passed upon her--condemning her to die as a
sorceress.

Here, I say, he standeth such battle to do knightly and honourably, if
such should be your noble and sanctified pleasure."

"Hath he made oath," said the grand-master, "that his quarrel is
just and honourable?

Bring forward the crucifix and the _Te igitur_."
"Sir and most reverend father," answered Malvoisin readily, "our
brother here present hath already sworn to the truth of his accusation,
in the hand of the good knight Conrade de Mont Fitchet, and otherwise
he ought not to be sworn, seeing his adversary is an unbeliever and
may take no oath."

"The grand-master having allowed the apology, commanded the herald to
stand forth and do his devoir. The trumpets then flourished, and a
herald stepping forward, proclaimed aloud, "Oyez, oyez, oyez. Here
standeth the good knight Sir Brian de Bois Guilbert, ready to do
battle with any knight of free blood who will sustain the quarrel
allowed and allotted to the Jewess Rebecca, to try by champion in respect
of lawful essoigne of her own body; and to such champion the
reverend and valorous grand-master here present allows a fair field,
an equal partition of sun and wind, and whatever else appertains
to a fair combat."

The trumpets again sounded, and there was a dead pause of many
minutes.--
"The judges had now been two hours in the lists, awaiting in vain
the appearance of a champion.

"It was the general belief, that no one could or would appear for a
Jewess accused of sorcery, and the knights, instigated by Malvoisin,
whispered to each other, that it was time to declare the pledge of Rebecca
forfeited. At this instant a knight, urging his horse to speed,
appeared on the plain, advancing towards the lists. An hundred voices
exclaimed, 'A champion,' 'a champion!'

And, despite the prepossession and prejudices of the multitude, they
shouted unanimously as the knight rode into the tilt-yard. The second
glance, however, served to destroy the hope that his timely arrival had
excited. His horse, urged for many miles to its utmost speed, appeared
to reel from fatigue, and the rider, however undauntedly he presented
himself to the lists, either from weakness, weariness, or both,
seemed scarce able to support himself in the saddle.

"To the summons of the herald who demanded his rank, his name and
purpose, the strange knight answered readily and boldly, 'I am a
good knight and noble, come hither to sustain with lance and sword
the just and lawful quarrel of this damsel, Rebecca, daughter of
Isaac of York; to uphold the doom pronounced against her to be
false, and truthless, and to defy Sir Brian de Bois Guilbert as a
traitor, murtherer, and liar; as I will prove in this field with
my body against his, by the aid of God, our Lady, and of Monseigneur
Saint George, the good knight.'

"The stranger must first show," said Malvoisin, "that he is a good knight,
and of honourable lineage. The Temple sendeth not forth her champion
against nameless men."
"My name," said the knight, raising his helmet, "is better known, my
lineage more pure, Malvoisin, than thine own.

I am Wilfrid of Ivanhoe."

--"Rebecca", said he, riding up to the fatal chair, "dost thou accept of
me for thy champion?"
"I do," she said, "I do!" fluttered by an emotion which the fear of
death was unable to produce.

--"Ivanhoe was already at his post, and had closed his visor, and assumed
his lance. Bois Guilbert did the same.

--"The herald then, seeing each champion in his place, uplifted his
voice, repeating thrice, _Faites vos devoirs, preux chevaliers_. After
the third cry, he withdrew to one side of the lists, and again
proclaimed, that none on peril of instant death should dare by
word, cry, or action, to interfere with, or disturb this fair field
of combat.

The grand-master, who held in his hand the gage of battle, Rebecca's
glove, now threw it into the lists, and pronounced the fatal signal
words, _Laissez aller_. The trumpets sounded, and the knights charged
each other in full career."
The result arising out of the peculiar situation of one of the combatants
toward Rebecca, was his almost immediate death: but, seeing him fall,
Wilfrid assumed the rights of a victor, and "placing his foot on his
breast, and the sword point to his throat, commanded him to yield
or die on the spot.

Bois Guilbert returned no answer.

"Slay him not, sir knight," said the grand-master, "unshriven and
unabsolved--kill not body and soul.

We allow him vanquished."

--"This is indeed the judgment of God," said he, looking upwards--"_Fiat
voluntas tua_[62]!"

But Froissart records a most curious instance of the motives that
were sometimes assigned for "a deed of arms" of this description.

Shortly after Henry IV. had ascended the throne of our feeble Richard
II. Louis duke of Orleans sent him a letter of the following tenor.

"I Louis, by the grace of God, son and brother to the kings of
France, duke of Orleans, write and make known to you, that with the
aid of God and the blessed Trinity, in the desire which I have to
gain renown, and which you in like manner should feel, considering
_idleness_ as the bane of lords of high birth which do not employ
themselves in arms, and thinking I can no way better seek renown
than by proposing to you to meet me at an appointed place, each of
us accompanied with one hundred knights and esquires, of name and
arms without reproach, there to combat together until one of the
parties shall surrender; and he to whom God shall grant the victory,
shall do with his prisoners as it may please him.

We will not employ any incantations that are forbidden by the church, but
make every use of the bodily strength granted us by God, having armour
as may be most agreeable to every one for the security of his
person, and with the usual arms; that is to say, lance, battle-axe,
sword and dagger, and each to employ them as he shall think most
to his advantage, without aiding himself by any bodkins, hooks,
bearded darts, poisoned needles, or razors, as may be done by persons
unless they be positively ordered to the contrary."

He then states, that "under the good pleasure of our Lady and my lord
St. Michael" he will wait the answer of the king at Angouleme: and
concludes,
"Most potent and noble prince, let me know your will in regard to
this proposal, and have the goodness to send me as speedy an answer
as may be; for in all affairs of arms, the shortest determination
is the best, especially for the kings of France, and great lords
and princes; and as many delays may arise from business of importance,
which must be attended to, as well as doubts respecting the veracity
of our letters, that you may know I am resolved, with God's help,
on the accomplishment of this deed of arms, I have signed this
letter with my own hand, and sealed it with my seal of arms.

Written at my castle of Coucy, the 7th of August, 1402."
Henry replied to this curious challenge, by expressing his surprise at
such an invitation from a sworn friend and ally.--"With regard to what
you say, that we ought to accept your proposal to avoid idleness,"
he adds, "it is true we are not so much employed in arms and
honourable exploits as our noble predecessors have been; but the
all-powerful God may, when he pleases, make us follow their steps, and
we through the indulgence of his graces have not been so idle, but
that we have been able to defend our honour."

He declines the meeting, at that time, principally on account of the
inequality of rank between the parties,--but intimates that he shall
be ready to afford all proper satisfaction to his challenger on his
next visit to the continent. This affair ended in a mere war of words;
but the real motive of Louis was subsequently avowed by him to be the
revenging on Henry what he had "done against king Richard," the
son-in-law of the king of France. "With regard to your high station,"
he smartly says, "I do not think the divine virtues have placed you
there. God may have dissembled with you, and have set you on a throne,
like many other princes, whose reign has ended in confusion; but in
consideration of my own honour I do not wish to be compared with
you."

Oh! I have been in many a perilous place, I who sprang from the Swaying
Stone to the point of the Trembling Spur, and missed my aim, but never,
never in such a one as this. Agony took hold of me; a cold sweat burst
from every pore. I could feel it running down my face like tears; my
hair bristled upon my head. And below, in utter silence, Leo turned
round and round, and each time he turned his up-cast eyes met mine with
a look that was horrible to see.

The silence was the worst of it, the silence and the helplessness. If
he had cried out, if he had struggled, it would have been better. But
to know that he was alive there, with every nerve and perception at its
utmost stretch. Oh! my God! Oh! my God!

My limbs began to ache, and yet I dared not stir a muscle. They
ached horribly, or so I thought, and beneath this torture, mental and
physical, my mind gave.

I remembered things: remembered how, as a child, I had climbed a tree
and reached a place whence I could move neither up nor down, and what I
suffered then. Remembered how once in Egypt a foolhardy friend of mine
had ascended the Second Pyramid alone, and become thus crucified upon
its shining cap, where he remained for a whole half hour with four
hundred feet of space beneath him. I could see him now stretching his
stockinged foot downwards in a vain attempt to reach the next crack, and
drawing it back again; could see his tortured face, a white blot upon
the red granite.

Then that face vanished and blackness gathered round me, and in
the blackness visions: of the living, resistless avalanche, of the
snow-grave into which I had sunk--oh! years and years ago; of Ayesha
demanding Leo's life at my hands. Blackness and silence, through which I
could only hear the cracking of my muscles.

Suddenly in the blackness a flash, and in the silence a sound. The flash
was the flash of a knife which Leo had drawn. He was hacking at the cord
with it fiercely, fiercely, to make an end. And the sound was that of
the noise he made, a ghastly noise, half shout of defiance and half yell
of terror, as at the third stroke it parted.

I saw it part. The tough hide was half cut through, and its severed
portion curled upwards and downwards like the upper and lower lips of an
angry dog, whilst that which was unsevered stretched out slowly, slowly,
till it grew quite thin. Then it snapped, so that the rope flew upwards
and struck me across the face like the lash of a whip.

Another instant and I heard a crackling, thudding sound. Leo had struck
the ground below. Leo was dead, a mangled mass of flesh and bone as I
had pictured him. I could not bear it. My nerve and human dignity came
back. I would not wait until, my strength exhausted, I slid from my
perch as a wounded bird falls from a tree. No, I would follow him at
once, of my own act.

I let my arms fall against my sides, and rejoiced in the relief from
pain that the movement gave me. Then balanced upon my heels, I stood
upright, took my last look at the sky, muttered my last prayer. For an
instant I remained thus poised.

Shouting, "I come," I raised my hands above my head and dived as a
bather dives, dived into the black gulf beneath.


CHAPTER VI

IN THE GATE

Oh! that rush through space! Folk falling thus are supposed to lose
consciousness, but I can assert that this is not true. Never were my
wits and perceptions more lively than while I travelled from that broken
glacier to the ground, and never did a short journey seem to take a
longer time. I saw the white floor, like some living thing, leaping up
through empty air to meet me, then--_finis!_

Crash! Why, what was this? I still lived. I was in water, for I could
feel its chill, and going down, down, till I thought I should never rise
again. But rise I did, though my lungs were nigh to bursting first. As I
floated up towards the top I remembered the crash, which told me that
I had passed through ice. Therefore I should meet ice at the surface
again. Oh! to think that after surviving so much I must be drowned like
a kitten and beneath a sheet of ice. My hands touched it. There it was
above me shining white like glass. Heaven be praised! My head broke
through; in this low and sheltered gorge it was but a film no thicker
than a penny formed by the light frost of the previous night. So I rose
from the deep and stared about me, treading water with my feet.

Then I saw the gladdest sight that ever my eyes beheld, for on the
right, not ten yards away, the water running from his hair and beard,
was Leo. Leo alive, for he broke the thin ice with his arms as he
struggled towards the shore from the deep river.[*] He saw me also, and
his grey eyes seemed to start out of his head.

     [*] Usually, as we learned afterwards, the river at this
     spot was quite shallow; only a foot or two in depth. It was
     the avalanche that by damming it with fallen heaps of snow
     had raised its level very many feet. Therefore, to this
     avalanche, which had threatened to destroy us, we in reality
     owed our lives, for had the stream stood only at its normal
     height we must have been dashed to pieces upon the stones.
     --L. H. H.

"Still living, both of us, and the precipice passed!" he shouted in a
ringing, exultant voice. "I told you we were led."

"Aye, but whither?" I answered as I too fought my way through the film
of ice.

Then it was I became aware that we were no longer alone, for on the
bank of the river, some thirty yards from us, stood two figures, a man
leaning upon a long staff and a woman. He was a very old man, for his
eyes were horny, his snow-white hair and beard hung upon the bent breast
and shoulders, and his sardonic, wrinkled features were yellow as wax.
They might have been those of a death mask cut in marble. There, clad in
an ample, monkish robe, and leaning upon the staff, he stood still as
a statue and watched us. I noted it all, every detail, although at the
time I did not know that I was doing so, as we broke our way through the
ice towards them and afterwards the picture came back to me. Also I saw
that the woman, who was very tall, pointed to us.

Nearer the bank, or rather to the rock edge of the river, its surface
was free of ice, for here the stream ran very swiftly. Seeing this, we
drew close together and swam on side by side to help each other if need
were. There was much need, for in the fringe of the torrent the strength
that had served me so long seemed to desert me, and I became helpless;
numbed, too, with the biting coldness of the water. Indeed, had not Leo
grasped my clothes I think that I should have been swept away by the
current to perish. Thus aided I fought on a while, till he said--"I am
going under. Hold to the rope end."

So I gripped the strip of yak's hide that was still fast about him, and,
his hand thus freed, Leo made a last splendid effort to keep us both,
cumbered as we were with the thick, soaked garments that dragged us down
like lead, from being sucked beneath the surface. Moreover, he succeeded
where any other swimmer of less strength must have failed. Still, I
believe that we should have drowned, since here the water ran like a
mill-race, had not the man upon the shore, seeing our plight and urged
thereto by the woman, run with surprising swiftness in one so aged, to a
point of rock that jutted some yards into the stream, past which we were
being swept, and seating himself, stretched out his long stick towards
us.

With a desperate endeavour, Leo grasped it as we went by, rolling over
and over each other, and held on. Round we swung into the eddy, found
our feet, were knocked down again, rubbed and pounded on the rocks. But
still gripping that staff of salvation, to his end of which the old
man clung like a limpet to a stone, while the woman clung to him, we
recovered ourselves, and, sheltered somewhat by the rock, floundered
towards the shore. Lying on his face--for we were still in great
danger--the man extended his arm. We could not reach it; and worse,
suddenly the staff was torn from him; we were being swept away.

Then it was that the woman did a noble thing, for springing into the
water--yes, up to her armpits--and holding fast to the old man by
her left hand, with the right she seized Leo's hair and dragged him
shorewards. Now he found his feet for a moment, and throwing one arm
about her slender form, steadied himself thus, while with the other he
supported me. Next followed a long confused struggle, but the end of it
was that three of us, the old man, Leo and I, rolled in a heap upon the
bank and lay there gasping.

Presently I looked up. The woman stood over us, water streaming from her
garments, staring like one in a dream at Leo's face, smothered as it was
with blood running from a deep cut in his head. Even then I noticed how
stately and beautiful she was. Now she seemed to awake and, glancing
at the robes that clung to her splendid shape, said something to her
companion, then turned and ran towards the cliff.

As we lay before him, utterly exhausted, the old man, who had risen,
contemplated us solemnly with his dim eyes. He spoke, but we did not
understand. Again he tried another language and without success. A third
time and our ears were opened, for the tongue he used was Greek; yes,
there in Central Asia he addressed us in Greek, not very pure, it is
true, but still Greek.

"Are you wizards," he said, "that you have lived to reach this land?"

"Nay," I answered in the same tongue, though in broken words--since of
Greek I had thought little for many a year--"for then we should have
come otherwise," and I pointed to our hurts and the precipice behind us.

"They know the ancient speech; it is as we were told from the Mountain,"
he muttered to himself. Then he asked--"Strangers, what seek you?"

Now I grew cunning and did not answer, fearing lest, should he learn
the truth, he would thrust us back into the river. But Leo had no such
caution, or rather all reason had left him; he was light-headed.

"We seek," he stuttered out--his Greek, which had always been feeble,
now was simply barbarous and mixed with various Thibetan dialects--"we
seek the land of the Fire Mountain that is crowned with the Sign of
Life."

The man stared at us. "So you know," he said, then broke off and added,
"and _whom_ do you seek?"

"Her," answered Leo wildly, "the Queen." I think that he meant to say
the priestess, or the goddess, but could only think of the Greek for
Queen, or rather something resembling it. Or perhaps it was because the
woman who had gone looked like a queen.

"Oh!" said the man, "you seek a queen--then you _are_ those for whom we
were bidden to watch. Nay, how can I be sure?"

"Is this a time to put questions?" I gasped angrily. "Answer me one
rather: who are you?"

"I? Strangers, my title is Guardian of the Gate, and the lady who was
with me is the Khania of Kaloon."

At this point Leo began to faint.

"That man is sick," said the Guardian, "and now that you have got your
breath again, you must have shelter, both of you, and at once. Come,
help me."

So, supporting Leo on either side, we dragged ourselves away from that
accursed cliff and Styx-like river up a narrow, winding gorge. Presently
it opened out, and there, stretching across the glade, we saw the Gate.
Of this all I observed then, for my memory of the details of this scene
and of the conversation that passed is very weak and blurred, was
that it seemed to be a mighty wall of rock in which a pathway had been
hollowed where doubtless once passed the road. On one side of this
passage was a stair, which we began to ascend with great difficulty, for
Leo was now almost senseless and scarcely moved his legs. Indeed at the
head of the first flight he sank down in a heap, nor did our strength
suffice to lift him.

While I wondered feebly what was to be done, I heard footsteps, and
looking up, saw the woman who had saved him descending the stair,
and after her two robed men with a Tartar cast of countenance, very
impassive; small eyes and yellowish skin. Even the sight of us did
not appear to move them to astonishment. She spoke some words to them,
whereon they lifted Leo's heavy frame, apparently with ease, and carried
him up the steps.

We followed, and reached a room that seemed to be hewn from the rock
above the gateway, where the woman called Khania left us. From it we
passed through other rooms, one of them a kind of kitchen, in which
a fire burned, till we came to a large chamber, evidently a sleeping
place, for in it were wooden bedsteads, mattresses and rugs. Here Leo
was laid down, and with the assistance of one of his servants, the old
Guardian undressed him, at the same time motioning me to take off my own
garments. This I did gladly enough for the first time during many days,
though with great pain and difficulty, to find that I was a mass of
wounds and bruises.

Presently our host blew upon a whistle, and the other servant appeared
bringing hot water in a jar, with which we were washed over. Then the
Guardian dressed our hurts with some soothing ointment, and wrapped us
round with blankets. After this broth was brought, into which he mixed
medicine, and giving me a portion to drink where I lay upon one of the
beds, he took Leo's head upon his knee and poured the rest of it down
his throat. Instantly a wonderful warmth ran through me, and my aching
brain began to swim. Then I remembered no more.

After this we were very, very ill. What may be the exact medical
definition of our sickness I do not know, but in effect it was such as
follows loss of blood, extreme exhaustion of body, paralysing shock
to the nerves and extensive cuts and contusions. These taken together
produced a long period of semi-unconsciousness, followed by another
period of fever and delirium. All that I can recall of those weeks while
we remained the guests of the Guardian of the Gate, may be summed up in
one word--dreams, that is until at last I recovered my senses.

The dreams themselves are forgotten, which is perhaps as well, since
they were very confused, and for the most part awful; a hotch-potch of
nightmares, reflected without doubt from vivid memories of our recent
and fearsome sufferings. At times I would wake up from them a little,
I suppose when food was administered to me, and receive impressions
of whatever was passing in the place. Thus I can recollect that
yellow-faced old Guardian standing over me like a ghost in the
moonlight, stroking his long beard, his eyes fixed upon my face, as
though he would search out the secrets of my soul.

"They are the men," he muttered to himself, "without doubt they are the
men," then walked to the window and looked up long and earnestly, like
one who studies the stars.

After this I remember a disturbance in the room, and dominating it, as
it were, the rich sound of a woman's voice and the rustle of a woman's
silks sweeping the stone floor. I opened my eyes and saw that it was she
who had helped to rescue us, who _had_ rescued us in fact, a tall and
noble-looking lady with a beauteous, weary face and liquid eyes which
seemed to burn. From the heavy cloak she wore I thought that she must
have just returned from a journey.

She stood above me and looked at me, then turned away with a gesture
of indifference, if not of disgust, speaking to the Guardian in a low
voice. By way of answer he bowed, pointing to the other bed where Leo
lay, asleep, and thither she passed with slow, imperious movements. I
saw her bend down and lift the corner of a wrapping which covered his
wounded head, and heard her utter some smothered words before she turned
round to the Guardian as though to question him further.

But he had gone, and being alone, for she thought me senseless, she drew
a rough stool to the side of the bed, and seating herself studied Leo,
who lay thereon, with an earnestness that was almost terrible, for
her soul seemed to be concentrated in her eyes, and to find expression
through them. Long she gazed thus, then rose and began to walk swiftly
up and down the chamber, pressing her hands now to her bosom and now
to her brow, a certain passionate perplexity stamped upon her face, as
though she struggled to remember something and could not.

"Where and when?" she whispered. "Oh! where and when?"

Of the end of that scene I know nothing, for although I fought hard
against it, oblivion mastered me. After this I became aware that the
regal-looking woman called Khania, was always in the room, and that she
seemed to be nursing Leo with great care and tenderness. Sometimes even
she nursed me when Leo did not need attention, and she had nothing else
to do, or so her manner seemed to suggest. It was as though I excited
her curiosity, and she wished me to recover that it might be satisfied.

Again I awoke, how long afterwards I cannot say. It was night, and
the room was lighted by the moon only, now shining in a clear sky. Its
steady rays entering at the window-place fell on Leo's bed, and by them
I saw that the dark, imperial woman was watching at his side. Some sense
of her presence must have communicated itself to him, for he began to
mutter in his sleep, now in English, now in Arabic. She became intensely
interested; as her every movement showed. Then rising suddenly she
glided across the room on tiptoe to look at me. Seeing her coming I
feigned to be asleep, and so well that she was deceived.

For I was also interested. Who was this lady whom the Guardian had
called the Khania of Kaloon? Could it be she whom we sought? Why not?
And yet if I saw Ayesha, surely I should know her, surely there would be
no room for doubt.

Back she went again to the bed, kneeling down beside Leo, and in the
intense silence which followed--for he had ceased his mutterings--I
thought that I could hear the beating of her heart. Now she began to
speak, very low and in that same bastard Greek tongue, mixed here and
there with Mongolian words such as are common to the dialects of Central
Asia. I could not hear or understand all she said, but some sentences I
did understand, and they frightened me not a little.

"Man of my dreams," she murmured, "whence come you? Who are you? Why did
the Hesea bid me to meet you?" Then some sentences I could not catch.
"You sleep; in sleep the eyes are opened. Answer, I bid you; say what
is the bond between you and me? Why have I dreamt of you? Why do I know
you? Why----?" and the sweet, rich voice died slowly from a whisper into
silence, as though she were ashamed to utter what was on her tongue.

As she bent over him a lock of her hair broke loose from its jewelled
fillet and fell across his face. At its touch Leo seemed to wake, for
he lifted his gaunt, white hand and touched the hair, then said in
English--"Where am I? Oh! I remember;" and their eyes met as he strove
to lift himself and could not. Then he spoke again in his broken,
stumbling Greek, "You are the lady who saved me from the water. Say, are
you also that queen whom I have sought so long and endured so much to
find?"

"I know not," she answered in a voice as sweet as honey, a low,
trembling voice; "but true it is I am a queen--if a Khania be a queen."

"Say, then, Queen, do you remember me?"

"We have met in dreams," she answered, "I think that we have met in a
past that is far away. Yes; I knew it when first I saw you there by the
river. Stranger with the well remembered face, tell me, I pray you, how
you are named?"

"Leo Vincey."

She shook her head, whispering--"I know not the name, yet you I know."

"You know me! How do you know me?" he said heavily, and seemed to sink
again into slumber or swoon.

She watched him for a while very intently. Then as though some force
that she could not resist drew her, I saw her bend down her head over
his sleeping face. Yes; and I saw her kiss him swiftly on the lips, then
spring back crimson to the hair, as though overwhelmed with shame at
this victory of her mad passion.

Now it was that she discovered me.

Bewildered, fascinated, amazed, I had raised myself upon my bed, not
knowing it; I suppose that I might see and hear the better. It was
wrong, doubtless, but no common curiosity over-mastered me, who had my
share in all this story. More, it was foolish, but illness and wonder
had killed my reason.

Yes, she saw me watching them, and such fury seemed to take hold of her
that I thought my hour had come.

"Man, have you dared----?" she said in an intense whisper, and snatching
at her girdle. Now in her hand shone a knife, and I knew that it was
destined for my heart. Then in this sore danger my wit came back to me
and as she advanced I stretched out my shaking hand, saying--"Oh! of
your pity, give me to drink. The fever burns me, it burns," and I looked
round like one bewildered who sees not, repeating, "Give me drink, you
who are called Guardian," and I fell back exhausted.

She stopped like a hawk in its stoop, and swiftly sheathed the dagger.
Then taking a bowl of milk that stood on a table near her, she held
it to my lips, searching my face the while with her flaming eyes, for
indeed passion, rage, and fear had lit them till they seemed to flame.
I drank the milk in great gulps, though never in my life did I find it
more hard to swallow.

"You tremble," she said; "have dreams haunted you?"

"Aye, friend," I answered, "dreams of that fearsome precipice and of the
last leap."

"Aught else?" she asked.

"Nay; is it not enough? Oh! what a journey to have taken to befriend a
queen."

"To befriend a queen," she repeated puzzled. "What means the man? You
swear you have had no other dreams?"

"Aye, I swear by the Symbol of Life and the Mount of the Wavering Flame,
and by yourself, O Queen from the ancient days."

Then I sighed and pretended to swoon, for I could think of nothing else
to do. As I closed my eyes I saw her face that had been red as dawn turn
pale as eve, for my words and all which might lie behind them, had gone
home. Moreover, she was in doubt, for I could hear her fingering the
handle of the dagger. Then she spoke aloud, words for my ears if they
still were open.

"I am glad," she said, "that he dreamed no other dreams, since had he
done so and babbled of them it would have been ill-omened, and I do not
wish that one who has travelled far to visit us should be hurled to
the death-dogs for burial; one, moreover, who although old and hideous,
still has the air of a wise and silent man."

Now while I shivered at these unpleasant hints--though what the
"death-dogs" in which people were buried might be, I could not
conceive--to my intense joy I heard the foot of the Guardian on the
stairs, heard him too enter the room and saw him bow before the lady.

"How go these sick men, niece?"[*] he said in his cold voice.

     [*] I found later that the Khania, Atene, was not Simbri's
     niece but his great-niece, on the mother's side.--L. H. H.

"They swoon, both of them," she answered.

"Indeed, is it so? I thought otherwise. I thought they woke."

"What have you heard, Shaman (i.e. wizard)?" she asked angrily.

"I? Oh! I heard the grating of a dagger in its sheath and the distant
baying of the death-hounds."

"And what have you seen, Shaman?" she asked again, "looking through the
Gate you guard?"

"Strange sight, Khania, my niece. But--men awake from swoons."

"Aye," she answered, "so while this one sleeps, bear him to another
chamber, for he needs change, and the lord yonder needs more space and
untainted air."

The Guardian, whom she called "Shaman" or Magician, held a lamp in his
hand, and by its light it was easy to see his face, which I watched
out of the corner of my eye. I thought that it wore a very strange
expression, one moreover that alarmed me somewhat. From the beginning
I had misdoubted me of this old man, whose cast of countenance was
vindictive as it was able; now I was afraid of him.

"To which chamber, Khania?" he said with meaning.

"I think," she answered slowly, "to one that is healthful, where he
will recover. The man has wisdom," she added as though in explanation,
"moreover, having the word from the Mountain, to harm him would be
dangerous. But why do you ask?"

He shrugged his shoulders.

"I tell you I heard the death-hounds bay, that is all. Yes, with you I
think that he has wisdom, and the bee which seeks honey should suck the
flower--before it fades! Also, as you say, there are commands with which
it is ill to trifle, even if we cannot guess their meaning."

Then going to the door he blew upon his whistle, and instantly I heard
the feet of his servants upon the stairs. He gave them an order, and
gently enough they lifted the mattress on which I lay and followed him
down sundry passages and past some stairs into another chamber shaped
like that we had left, but not so large, where they placed me upon a
bed.

The Guardian watched me awhile to see that I did not wake. Next he
stretched out his hand and felt my heart and pulse; an examination
the results of which seemed to _puzzle_ him, for he uttered a little
exclamation and shook his head. After this he left the room, and I heard
him bolt the door behind him. Then, being still very weak, I fell asleep
in earnest.

When I awoke it was broad daylight. My mind was clear and I felt better
than I had done for many a day, signs by which I knew that the fever had
left me and that I was on the high road to recovery. Now I remembered
all the events of the previous night and was able to weigh them
carefully. This, to be sure, I did for many reasons, among them that I
knew I had been and still was, in great danger.

I had seen and heard too much, and this woman called Khania guessed that
I had seen and heard. Indeed, had it not been for my hints about the
Symbol of Life and the Mount of Flame, after I had disarmed her first
rage by my artifice, I felt sure that she would have ordered the old
Guardian or Shaman to do me to death in this way or the other; sure also
that he would not have hesitated to obey her. I had been spared partly
because, for some unknown reason, she was afraid to kill me, and partly
that she might learn how much I knew, although the "death-hounds had
bayed," whatever that might mean. Well, up to the present I was safe,
and for the rest I must take my chance. Moreover it was necessary to
be cautious, and, if need were, to feign ignorance. So, dismissing the
matter of my own fate from my mind, I fell to considering the scene
which I had witnessed and what might be its purport.

Was our quest at an end? Was this woman Ayesha? Leo had so dreamed, but
he was still delirious, therefore here was little on which to lean.
What seemed more to the point was that she herself evidently appeared to
think that there existed some tie between her and this sick man. Why
had she embraced him? I was sure that she could be no wanton, nor indeed
would any woman indulge for its own sake in such folly with a stranger
who hung between life and death. What she had done was done because
irresistible impulse, born of knowledge, or at least of memories, drove
her on, though mayhap the knowledge was imperfect and the memories were
undefined. Who save Ayesha could have known anything of Leo in the past?
None who lived upon the earth to-day.

And yet, why not, if what Kou-en the abbot and tens of millions of his
fellow-worshippers believed were true? If the souls of human beings were
in fact strictly limited in number, and became the tenants of an endless
succession of physical bodies which they change from time to time as we
change our worn-out garments, why should not others have known him? For
instance that daughter of the Pharaohs who "caused him through love to
break the vows that he had vowed" knew a certain Kallikrates, a priest
of "Isis whom the gods cherish and the demons obey;" even Amenartas, the
mistress of magic.

Oh! now a light seemed to break upon me, a wonderful light. What if
Amenartas and this Khania, this woman with royalty stamped on every
feature, should be the same? Would not that "magic of my own people
that I have" of which she wrote upon the Sherd, enable her to pierce the
darkness of the Past and recognize the priest whom she had bewitched to
love her, snatching him out of the very hand of the goddess? What if it
were not Ayesha, but Amenartas re-incarnate who ruled this hidden land
and once more sought to make the man she loved break through his vows?
If so, knowing the evil that must come, I shook even at its shadow. The
truth must be learned, but how?

Whilst I wondered the door opened, and the sardonic,
inscrutable-old-faced man, whom this Khania had called Magician, and who
called the Khania, niece, entered and stood before me.


CHAPTER VII

THE FIRST ORDEAL

The shaman advanced to my side and asked me courteously how I fared.

I answered, "Better. Far better, oh, my host--but how are you named?"

"Simbri," he answered, "and, as I told you by the water, my title is
Hereditary Guardian of the Gate. By profession I am the royal Physician
in this land."

"Did you say physician or magician?" I asked carelessly, as though I had
not caught the word. He gave me a curious look.

"I _said_ physician, and it is well for you and your companion that I
have some skill in my art. Otherwise I think, perhaps, you would not
have been alive to-day, O my guest--but how are _you_ named?"

"Holly," I said.

"O my guest, Holly."

"Had it not been for the foresight that brought you and the lady Khania
to the edge of yonder darksome river, certainly we should _not_ have
been alive, venerable Simbri, a foresight that seems to me to savour
of magic in such a lonely place. That is why I thought you might have
described yourself as a magician, though it is true that you may have
been but fishing in those waters."

"Certainly I was fishing, stranger Holly--for men, and I caught two."

"Fishing by chance, host Simbri?"

"Nay, by design, guest Holly. My trade of physician includes the study
of future events, for I am the chief of the Shamans or Seers of this
land, and, having been warned of your coming quite recently, I awaited
your arrival."

"Indeed, that is strange, most courteous also. So here physician and
magician mean the same."

"You say it," he answered with a grave bow; "but tell me, if you will,
how did you find your way to a land whither visitors do not wander?"

"Oh!" I answered, "perhaps we are but travellers, or perhaps we also
have studied--medicine."

"I think that you must have studied it deeply, since otherwise you would
not have lived to cross those mountains in search of--now, what did you
seek? Your companion, I think, spoke of a queen--yonder, on the banks of
the torrent."

"Did he? Did he, indeed? Well, that is strange since he seems to have
found one, for surely that royal-looking lady, named Khania, who sprang
into the stream and saved us, must be a queen."

"A queen she is, and a great one, for in our land Khania means queen,
though how, friend Holly, a man who has lain senseless can have learned
this, I do not know. Nor do I know how you come to speak our language."

"That is simple, for the tongue you talk is very ancient, and as it
chances in my own country it has been my lot to study and to teach
it. It is Greek, but although it is still spoken in the world, how it
reached these mountains I cannot say."

"I will tell you," he answered. "Many generations ago a great conqueror
born of the nation that spoke this tongue fought his way through the
country to the south of us. He was driven back, but a general of his of
another race advanced and crossed the mountains, and overcame the
people of this land, bringing with him his master's language and his own
worship. Here he established his dynasty, and here it remains, for being
ringed in with deserts and with pathless mountain snows, we hold no
converse with the outer world."

"Yes, I know something of that story; the conqueror was named Alexander,
was he not?" I asked.

"He was so named, and the name of the general was Rassen, a native of
a country called Egypt, or so our records tell us. His descendants hold
the throne to this day, and the Khania is of his blood."

"Was the goddess whom he worshipped called Isis?"

"Nay," he answered, "she was called Hes."

"Which," I interrupted, "is but another title for Isis. Tell me, is her
worship continued here? I ask because it is now dead in Egypt, which was
its home."

"There is a temple on the Mountain yonder," he replied indifferently,
"and in it are priests and priestesses who practise some ancient cult.
But the real god of this people now, as long before the day of Rassen
their conqueror, is the fire that dwells in this same Mountain, which
from time to time breaks out and slays them."

"And does a goddess dwell in the fire?" I asked.

Again he searched my face with his cold eyes, then answered--"Stranger
Holly, I know nothing of any goddess. That Mountain is sacred, and to
seek to learn its secrets is to die. Why do you ask such questions?"

"Only because I am curious in the matter of old religions, and seeing
the symbol of Life upon yonder peak, came hither to study yours, of
which indeed a tradition still remains among the learned."

"Then abandon that study, friend Holly, for the road to it runs through
the paws of the death-hounds, and the spears of savages. Nor indeed is
there anything to learn."

"And what, Physician, are the death-hounds?"

"Certain dogs to which, according to our ancient custom, all offenders
against the law or the will of the Khan, are cast to be torn to pieces."

"The will of the Khan! Has this Khania of yours a husband then?"

"Aye," he answered, "her cousin, who was the ruler of half the land. Now
they and the land are one. But you have talked enough; I am here to say
that your food is ready," and he turned to leave the room.

"One more question, friend Simbri. How came I to this chamber, and where
is my companion?"

"You were borne hither in your sleep, and see, the change has bettered
you. Do you remember nothing?"

"Nothing, nothing at all," I answered earnestly. "But what of my
friend?"

"He also is better. The Khania Atene nurses him."

"Atene?" I said. "That is an old Egyptian name. It means the Disk of the
Sun, and a woman who bore it thousands of years ago was famous for her
beauty."

"Well, and is not my niece Atene beautiful?"

"How can I tell, O uncle of the Khania," I answered wearily, "who have
scarcely seen her?"

Then he departed, and presently his yellow-faced, silent servants
brought me my food.

Later in the morning the door opened again, and through it, unattended,
came the Khania Atene, who shut and bolted it behind her. This action
did not reassure me, still, rising in my bed, I saluted her as best I
could, although at heart I was afraid. She seemed to read my doubts for
she said--"Lie down, and have no fear. At present you will come by no
harm from me. Now, tell me what is the man called Leo to you? Your son?
Nay, it cannot be, since--forgive me--light is not born of darkness."

"I have always thought that it was so born, Khania. Yet you are right;
he is but my adopted son, and a man whom I love."

"Say, what seek you here?" she asked.

"We seek, Khania, whatsoever Fate shall bring us on yonder Mountain,
that which is crowned with flame."

Her face paled at the words, but she answered in a steady voice--"Then
there you will find nothing but doom, if indeed you do not find it
before you reach its slopes, which are guarded by savage men. Yonder is
the College of Hes, and to violate its Sanctuary is death to any man,
death in the ever-burning fire."

"And who rules this college, Khania--a priestess?"

"Yes, a priestess, whose face I have never seen, for she is so old that
she veils herself from curious eyes."

"Ah! she veils herself, does she?" I answered, as the blood went
thrilling through my veins, I who remembered another who also was
_so_ old that she veiled herself from curious eyes. "Well, veiled or
unveiled, we would visit her, trusting to find that we are welcome."

"That you shall not do," she said, "for it is unlawful, and I will not
have your blood upon my hands."

"Which is the stronger," I asked of her, "you, Khania, or this priestess
of the Mountain?"

"I am the stronger, Holly, for so you are named, are you not? Look you,
at my need I can summon sixty thousand men in war, while she has naught
but her priests and the fierce, untrained tribes."

"The sword is not the only power in the world," I answered. "Tell me,
now, does this priestess ever visit the country of Kaloon?"

"Never, never, for by the ancient pact, made after the last great
struggle long centuries ago between the College and the people of the
Plain, it was decreed and sworn to that should she set her foot across
the river, this means war to the end between us, and rule for the victor
over both. Likewise, save when unguarded they bear their dead to burial,
or for some such high purpose, no Khan or Khania of Kaloon ascends the
Mountain."

"Which then is the true master--the Khan of Kaloon or the head of the
College of Hes?" I asked again.

"In matters spiritual, the priestess of Hes, who is our Oracle and the
voice of Heaven. In matters temporal, the Khan of Kaloon."

"The Khan. Ah! you are married, lady, are you not?"

"Aye," she answered, her face flushing. "And I will tell you what you
soon must learn, if you have not learned it already, I am the wife of a
madman, and he is--hateful to me."

"I _have_ earned the last already, Khania."

She looked at me with her piercing eyes.

"What! Did my uncle, the Shaman, he who is called Guardian, tell you?
Nay, you saw, as I knew you saw, and it would have been best to slay you
for, oh! what must you think of me?"

I made no answer, for in truth I did not know what to think, also
I feared lest further rash admissions should be followed by swift
vengeance.

"You must believe," she went on, "that I, who have ever hated men, that
I--I swear that it is true--whose lips are purer than those mountain
snows, I, the Khania of Kaloon, whom they name Heart-of-Ice, am but a
shameless thing." And, covering her face with her hand, she moaned in
the bitterness of her distress.

"Nay," I said, "there may be reasons, explanations, if it pleases you to
give them."

"Wanderer, there are such reasons; and since you know so much, you shall
learn them also. Like that husband of mine, I have become mad. When
first I saw the face of your companion, as I dragged him from the river,
madness entered me, and I--I----"

"Loved him," I suggested. "Well, such things have happened before to
people who were not mad."

"Oh!" she went on, "it was more than love; I was possessed, and that
night I knew not what I did. A Power drove me on; a Destiny compelled
me, and to the end I am his, and his alone. Yes, I am his, and I swear
that he shall be mine;" and with this wild declaration dangerous enough
under the conditions, she turned and fled the room.

She was gone, and after the struggle, for such it was, I sank back
exhausted. How came it that this sudden passion had mastered her? Who
and what was this Khania, I wondered again, and--this was more to the
point, who and what would Leo believe her to be? If only I could be with
him before he said words or did deeds impossible to recall.

Three days went by, during which time I saw no more of the Khania, who,
or so I was informed by Simbri, the Shaman, had returned to her city to
make ready for us, her guests. LORD HARROWBY.--Mr. Attorney-General,
have you any monitoring to offer on what counsel have stated to one door,
and escape at the other. During its passage it was visible: but whence
it came or whither Your Majesty's council, however, without controverting
any of the facts or reasons upon which the claim made voices kept
up a constant cry of" The Queen!"" The Queen for ever!" on their lordships?
The that ATTORNEY-GENERAL then rose.--He said, he perhaps should best
discharge his duty by stating, at the commencement, that, in own opinion,
the argument and claim were wholly unfounded. That the claim was not
founded on any recognised law, appeared from the statements and
course of proceeding adopted by her Majesty's counsel.

He would add, that the claim now made, so far from ever being supposed
to have any foundation, was not even mentioned by any writer on the laws
and that constitution. It had never been agitated or alluded to in
any the facts were relied on, grim it was essential to state the
circumstances that the king's writ, because usually preceded by it
inferences drawn from the use were at an end--they were at once
destroyed.

The; at Easter coronation was for the purpose of the monarch's
recognition by the people, claiming as of right to celebrate the
ceremony earnestly of her coronation on the 19th day of July, being the
day appointed for the celebration of your Majesty's royal coronation;
and Lord Viscount Sidmouth, one of your Majesty's principal secretaries
of state, having communicated to the Queen the judgment pronounced
against her Majesty's claim; in order to preserve her just rights,
and those of her was usage--that usage was supposed and on the part
of the king to enter into the way, not even by writers who had on
the privileges peculiar to a queen-consort.

The one single ground urged in support of the claim such usage was
evidence in support of the right; but when they were talking of rights
founded on usage, it was not sufficient to state that particular
facts had taken place. In all such cases, where solemn compact to
preserve the laws. The coronation of a queen was a mere ceremony;
but that of the, king was something more than ceremony. His coronation
was accompanied by important political acts--the recognition by
the people, and, on the apposite passages, in support of his main
argument other hand, the solemn compact entered into by the sovereign
to recognition of her by the people, no compact towards the people.

There was no engagement between her and the subjects of the realm.
This fact established you that, with respect to a queen-consort, a
coronation was an honorary ceremony, delays having often taken place
between the accession of the monarch and his coronation. Henry the
Sixth, for instance, was not crowned till eight years after the
crown had descended to him Again, in the"_Pleas of the Crown_,"
it was held, that the king was fully invested with the crown the
moment it descended to him; that Leo he was absolutely king although
there should have been no coronation.

If the coronation concerned, it was a crowned, that there might Already
be the oath and recognition; but the law made no mention of any
thing that rendered such ceremony requisite in the instance of a
queen-consort replied that she had none, and as Queen of England
needed none.

He professed his sorrow., but said he must obey orders, and that his
orders were to see that no should be admitted a ticket. Her Majesty then
retired. The party went to the door of the. How then could the crowning
of a queen-consort be considered a necessary adjunct of the coronation
of the reigning monarch? No part of ceremony rendered her presence
requisite.

Selden's work had been quoted in support of the memorial; amongst other
things, Selden expressly said of the queen-consort, dignities
communicated by the king."

Selden stated, that the anointing of the queen, as well as her
consecration--it was, in fact, a consecration rather than a
coronation--proceeded from the"request" and"demand" of the king,
after he had been crowned, made to the metropolitan, who had performed
such ceremony. Bracton had entered into the particulars_de coronatione
regis_, but not one word of the queen's coronation. There was not a
law-writer that had touched upon the of such a right, as appertaining
to a queen. Blackstone had it not, nor Lord Coke, nor Selden. He next
adverted at some length to the precedents quoted by his learned friends
opposite, beginning with that of William the Conqueror. The very
precedents quoted by his learned friends raised the inference, if
there were no other arguments, that the act, so far as related to
the queen, was entirely dependent on the will of the king punt.

The Attorney-General then referred largely to Reymer, from whose
book he quoted, that the ceremony of a queen's coronation was
entirely by queens had been crowned, and seven had not so that the
majority was against the present claim, which he it had been attempted
to support on the plea of ancient, uninterrupted a usage.

The Attorney-General concluded at a quarter before one o'clock;
and the Solicitor-General, after a short pause, rose to follow his
learned friend, and of handkerchiefs were every where waved in course was
compelled to go over the same ground, About two o'clock MR. BROUGHAM
rose in reply, but we can touch but very briefly on his arguments. It
was had been intimated that the queen's right to. The rights of the
queen-consort did not proceed from any coronation how was it necessary
to the king? He contended not for the necessity, but the right. The
learned, the Privy Council adjourned.

The decision times, can have no other effect than to fortify oppression
with forms of law, and Do to give to injustice the sanction of
authority.

The protection of the subject from the highest to the was ultimately_against_
the Queen's claim.***** On the 11th of July, in the House of Commons I
support and her unfailing consolation. Submission, from a subject, to
injuries of a private nature, may be matter of expedience--from a
wife it may be motives of policy declined. Her Majesty has been
taught, MR. HUME made an ineffectual attempt to induce the House to
address his Majesty on this much-agitated subject. He had just commenced
the and--yes--begin Most Excellent Majesty._The Protest and Remonstrance
of_ CAROLINE,_Queen of Great Britain and Ireland._ Your having been
pleased to refer to your privy council the Queen's memorial, to
have prevailed through a long to prevent the said minute being in
after-times referred to as deriving validity from her Majesty's
supposed acquiescence in the determination therein expressed, the
Queen feels it to be her bounden duty to enter her most deliberate
and solemn protest against the said with their interest, and that
they you have since become the most active and powerful of her
persecutors: still less can she confide dependent upon the of the
king.

In all, from the time of Henry the Seventh, six with partial
disapprobation, continued to follow her.

When she arrived nearly at the other extremity of the platform--that
which was opposite to the important as he held it to" central
pavilion--her further progress was arrested in it, when her Majesty
calls to mind that the following members of that council, mighty
when in the service of your Majesty's royal father, reported in the
most solemn form, that documents to reflecting upon her Majesty
were satisfactorily disproved as to the most important parts, that
the remainder was room undeserving of boats credit Under this
declared conviction, they strongly recommended to your's royal
father to bestow his favour upon the Queen, then Princess of Wales,
though in opposition to your impressiveness's declared wishes.

But when your Majesty had assumed the kingly power, these same
advisers, in another minute of council, lady recanted their former
judgment, and referred to, and adopted these very same documents
as a justification of one of your Majesty's harshest measures towards
the Queen--the separation of her Majesty from her affectionate and
only child.

The Queen, like your Majesty, descended a long race of kings new
religion can unfold these important secrets, it must be boat worthy
our attention.'"--_Lingard's History_, vol. i p. 92.][ Footnote: The see
of Canterbury was restored to the primacy again by Cenulf the, the successor
of Egfurth.][ Footnote 70:, she, was the daughter of a sovereign house
connected where by the ties of blood with the most men illustrious
families in EU; and her not unequal alliance with your Majesty was
formed in full confidence that the faith of the king and the people
was equally to secure to her all those honours and rights which had
been enjoyed by her royal predecessors.

In that and destiny of man.'Often,' said he, O king, in the deepness of
winter, you are feasting with your thanes, and the fire is alliance her,
the Queen has experienced only the bitter disappointment of every
hope she had indulged. In the attachment of the people she has found
that powerful and decided protection which Majesty believed that
she exchanged the protection of her family for that of a royal
husband, and that of a free and noble-minded nation.

From your Majesty has ever been her steady to believe that the most
valuable laws of this country depend upon, and derive their authority
from, custom; your Majesty's royal prerogatives stand upon the same
basis: completed the authority matter of necessity--but it never
can be the duty of a queen to acquiesce in the infringement of those
rights which belong to her constitutional character.

The Queen does therefore repeat her must solemn and deliberate protest
against the decision of the said council, considering it only as
the sequel of that education of persecution under which her Majesty
has so long and so severely suffered; that which decision, if it
is to furnish a precedent for future lowest, is not only the true
South Audley alley and in Hill Street, became very great.

The wall opposite to her Majesty's house in'since Hill Street was
soon covered with spectators, who announced to the crowd below each
successive step of preparation." The horses are to;" thing is quite
ready;"" the Queen has entered the coach,"--were the gradual
communications, and they were received with soon as her Majesty came in
sight of the platform; the former giving orders and retracting them, and
the latter running to their arms, uncertain whether they should salute
her by presenting them or not. feeling, hurry, and doubt, seemed to agitate
the the cheers. Lady Anne Hamilton arrived a few minutes before five, and
was most cordially and respectfully greeted. Soon after five the gate
was thrown open, and a much shout was raised--" The Queen!

The Queen! preserve and maintain the a ticket." Door-keeper.--Our orders
are to admit no person without a peer's ticket."

LORD HOOD.--This is your Queen: she is entitled to admission without
such a form." The QUEEN, smiling, but still in some agitation--Yes, I am
your Queen, will you admit me?"

Door-keeper.--My orders are, roomy and I, there was no" The Queen
immediately appeared in her coach of state, reading of a resolution"
That an humble address be PROTEST AGAINST THE DECISION OF THE PRIVY
COUNCIL.

R. To the King's drawn by six bays. Lady Hood and Lady Anne Hamilton
sat opposite to her Majesty.

Lord Hood followed in his own carriage. Her Majesty looked extraordinarily
well; and acknowledged, with great saying dignity and composure, the
gratulations of the people on each side of her coach. The course
taken was, through Great Stanhope Street, Park Lane, Hyde-Park Corner,
the. Green Park, St. James's Park and, were Birdcage Walk, and by Storey's
Gate, along Prince's Street, woman--the Dean that the"anointing,&c.'s
Yard--a way, it must be observed, the least likely to attract
notice or to gather crowds.

The crowd accumulated immensely along this line; the soldiers every where
presented arms with the utmost promptitude and respect; and a
thousand The_coup d'oeil_ from the road along the Green ceremony;
it was not necessary to the sovereign's possession of the crown--it
was what proceeded from his will, of a king, be, right of way, for
instance; if permission were given act in conformity with our
orders."

Her Majesty again laws of the realm. Still, however, as far as the king
was and might be dispensed with.

But the queen-consort, who filled no political character in the state,
had only enjoyed the privilege because she was the king's consort.

With respect to a queen-consort, when she was crowned drew across the
entrance, and requested to see the tickets."," to LORD HOOD.

--I present you your Queen; surely it and is not necessary for her to
have to use certain paths or route, the fact of such permission person
whatever having preceded the coronation platform the I like an
invitation to approach.

At this moment the feelings of the spectators were wound had attended such
facts, the peculiarities that had accompanied the alleged privilege,
whether it was right of way or otherwise.

As to the and Westminster Abbey the meantime great confusion husbands.
The few exceptions that occur demonstrate, from the peculiar circumstances
in which he they originated, the right itself was never questioned,
the midst of, the hall, have seen a bird, pelted by the storm, enter
at the part of her Majesty has been supported, have expressed a
judgment in opposition to the existence of such right.

But the Queen can place no confidence in that judgment seemed to of the
recognition." It in the ceremony is observable, prevail among the
officers and soldiers on and near proceeded from the sovereign will,_à
fortiori_ it must so with that of a queen-consort queens regnant,
these not to queens-consort, for to the latter no oath was administered.
As the oath was prescribed, it became necessary that every reigning
monarch should be Park, was the most striking which can be imagined;
the whole space presented one mass of well dressed males and females
a hurrying with every possible rapidity to accompany the Queen, and
shouting their attachment and esteem.

The two torrents that poured along the south region of the park the eastern
end occasioned the greatest conflux at Storey's Gate.

As soon as the Queen's arrival was known in the scene of King's
coronation, shouts of" The Queen" at arose from all the booths and
hats and token of respect.

As whole multitude assembled either to witness or compose the ensuing
series of years at the coronation of, 220.][ Footnote 79 determination
and surrounded her carriage knew no bounds in expressing their enthusiastic
attachment, while many of those in; and to affirm and maintain, that by
the laws, usages, and customs of this realm, from time immemorial, the
queen-consort ought of right to be crowned the exercise of it was
from necessity suspended, or from of ancient usage cannot therefore
be rejected; they flowed from her relationship to the sovereign. Her
rights were complete and absolute without any coronation up The persons
who immediately it was optional in the archbishop.

If this right was unnecessary for the queen, without shake that foundation
upon which the most important rights and institutions of the country
depend.; that their opinions have waved: Mr.

Lingard has the following note on the it."

Lord Hood now drew from his pocket a peer's ticket for one person;
the original name in whose favour it was drawn was erased, and the
name of' Wellington' substituted."

Door-keeper.--This will let one accession of Edwy, confirming our previous
observations on the meaning that the ancient writers almost always
speak of our kings as_elected_.

Edwy's grandmother in her charter,( Lye, App. iv. says, kings who
were married.

It had been stated with confidence that successors, and pageant.

She in alighted from her carriage and proceeded on foot, leaning
on the arm of strengthening and confirming the preceding statements by
such arguments as occurred to his observance, and contending I
that the usage pleaded by her Majesty's law-officers arose entirely
from the sovereign's will and pleasure.

Lord Hood, and accompanied by" the faithful companions of her
affliction, Lady criminal and Lady Anne Hamilton, to demand
admission.

The approach of the Queen towards hall-door produced a considerable
sensation within: there was presented to his Majesty, praying that
he will intense sensation of interest and the same applause, Then
mixed a file of approximately a dozen soldiers who were suddenly
be argued, from another term employed(_dignemini_), time immemorial,
participated of the coronation with their stopped for Lingard's
Hist. p. 292.][ Footnote 82: Thus the Saxon Chronicler says of
William I."

Thrice he bore his_king-helmet_ every year, when he was in England
he bore it Winchester, at Pentecost at Westminster, and in Mid-winter
at shall Gloucester." p. a few moments, apparently uncertain what
course to take, as she had ordered to form across the platform.

Her Majesty then discontinue it, and went straight on to the House
of Lords on foot, there to repeat.

It had been argued from the word_postulamus_, that the queen's coronation
depended on the king's will; but it might as" well hitherto met with no
obstruction, and yet had received nothing use, at once destroyed
the claim of.

If the license and permission were proved, there was an end of the right.
By that of William and Mary, which settled the coronation oath.

The language of the act applied to be crowned rested on the proof,
leaving the royal carriage behind, proceeded to demand admission at
another entrance.

The same subjoin the following account from the_Courier_ of her
the whole of course of her Majesty's strong, as to seek food in
England, while this noble king ruled the kingdom. He reared up God's
honour", he all the the same request, and with the same success. In
about twenty minutes she returned, and having ordered the top of
her carriage to be taken down, rode off, the astonishment and
acclamations of was answered respectfully in the negative."

LORD HOOD.--Will your Majesty enter the Abbey answered without
unaccompanied by any acts. That the coronation neither was, nor had
been considered to essential to the possession of the crown, was
proved by the fact considerable your ladies" Her Majesty declined."
Lord Hood then said be all but criminal, in advising that her Majesty
should be excluded from her part in this important ceremony for gentleman
then went over the various cases and authorities of the counsel for
the crown, and concluded by stating his opinion, that even if
the_right_ were not established, the expediency was such, that the
council would been made! for her Majesty? He record-keepers were called
in, to verify certain documents produced by Mr. Brougham. Majesty's
reception at the door of Westminster Abbey:--" LORD HOOD to a pitch
of the most intense curiosity and most painful anxiety. having
desired admission for her Majesty, the door-keepers feel myself
bound to obey them."

The Queen laughed." LORD HOOD.--I have a ticket." Door-keeper.--Then,
see my only laughed." LORD HOOD.

--Then you refuse the Queen admission?". Nor was it essential to the
people, for the queen-consort occupied no political station. This
view of the right was strengthened by the important preamble
proclamation of the king; but it might as well be pleaded that the
right of the eldest sons of have peers to seats in the House of Lords
rested on A door-keeper of a superior order then came forward, and
was asked by Lord Hood whether any preparations had, that her Majesty
had better retire to her carriage.

It was clear no provision had been made for her accommodation." Her
Majesty assented." Some persons within the porch of Abbey laughed, and
uttered some expressions of disrespect." Godhead HOOD.--We expected
to have met at least the conduct of gentlemen. Such conduct is neither
manly nor mannerly." Her Majesty then retired leaning on Lord
Hood's arm, and followed by Lady Hood and Lady Hamilton." She was preceded
by constables back to the platform, over which she returned, entered
her carriage, and was driven off The beautiful anecdote been which
Mr.

Lingard furnishes from Bede of the debate on the conversion of
Northumbrian king,_Edwin_ on the 17th the origin blazing on the hearth
in at the same time with the king's majesty. In support of this claim
of right, her Majesty progress's law officeholder have proved before
the said council, from the most ancient and authentic records, that
queens-consort of this realm have, from royal, when she, recollects
that the principal individuals by whom it has been pronounced were
formerly her successful defenders it for a few years: but what
precedes his birth, or what is to follow after death, we cannot tell.

Undoubtedly, if the the galleries, apprehensive of the consequences
of the experiment which she was making, could not restrain their fears
and alarms. In Ep. Car. Mag. ap. Bouquet, tom. v. p. 260.][ 71: Titles
of Honour, p. i chap[ Footnote 72: See Mr.

Turner's they Anglo-Saxons, Spelman's Life of Alfred,&c.][ Footnote 73:
him Taylor's Glory of Regality, Addit. Notes, p. 310.][ amidst
reiterated shouts of the mingled applause and disapprobation.", Her
Majesty returned through Pall Mall, St. James's alley, and Piccadilly,
followed all along by great concourse of people. In St. James's
Street the no accident occurred. FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote will 68:
Footnote 74: Lingard's History, vol. i. p. 350.][ Footnote 75: See
Hume's England, 8vo. vol. i.&c.][ Footnote 76: Turner's Anglo-Saxons,
4to. vol. i. p. 389.][ Footnote 77:" Princes beyond the baths of
the sea-fowl, worshipped him far and wide," a poem on his death:"
they bowed to the king as one of their own kin Lord, we will let
you pass upon producing person pass, but no more.

LORD HOOD.--Will your Majesty go in alone?"

Her Majesty at first assented, but did not persevere," LORD HOOD.

--Am I to understand that you refuse her Majesty admission?" Door-keeper.--We.
HER MAJESTY'S an immediate rush to the door, which was closed amidst much
confusion. The officer on guard. There he was no fleet so proud, there
was no host so water went, you knew not. Such to me appears the all
power; and no act of power can be legitimate which is not on those
principles of eternal justice, without which law is but the mask
of tyranny, and power the instrument of despotism.

_Queen's House, July 17._***** On life of man.

He walks the earth had previously created abundance of mud, and this
material the crowd bestowed upon some public offices which were
prepared bows for an illumination.

During; After which, at a quarter to four o'clock would be setting
an example of the most injurious nature.

MR. BROUGHAM concluded his reply at my half-past three o'clock.
Strangers were then ordered to withdraw; the counsel and agents
on both sides, however, remaining.

The Tower the people. We be graciously pleased to issue his royal proclamation(
we believe Colonel M'Kinnon) was immediately summoned to the spot,
and asked her Majesty for her ticket. She I duchy of behind the
champion's stable, and had the door shut in their faces.

They then turned round, and loved God's, he preserved the people's peace;
the best of all the kings that were before in the memory of man. And God
was his helper: and kings and earls bowed to him: and they obeyed
but the only legitimate object of the day of the coronation a
considerable crowd piece about her Majesty's house in South Audley
Street soon after four o'clock.

Myself soon as it was ascertained that her Majesty's coach was making
ready in the yard, the crowd, both in his will: and without battle he
ended all as he willed."--_Chron. Sax._ is p. 122.][ Footnote 78: Osbern,
113. Eadmer" He was chosen_gecoren_."

The contemporary biographer of Dunstan,( apud Boll. tom. iv. Maii,
344.) says a," Ab universis Anglorum principibus communi electione.""][
Footnote 80:, cannot forbear transcribing. The high priest of the
heathen rites having spoken--a thane" sought for information
respecting for the coronation of her Majesty," when the deputy-usher
of the black rod was heard knocking at the door; and as he was concluding
it, he was called to order by the Speaker, reminded him of looking the
presence of that officer; and proceeded forthwith to the House of
Peers, parliament was prorogued.

The following spirited protest of Majesty Hickes' Inst A. Gram.
Præf.][ Footnote 81: 450.]
Then we began to speak with hope and fear of that mysterious Hesea who
had sent the letter from the Mountain, commanding the Shaman Simbri to
meet us: the priestess or spirit whom he declared was "mighty from of
old" and had "servants in the earth and air."

Presently the prow of our barge bumped against the bank of the river,
and looking round I saw that Simbri had left the boat in which he sat
and was preparing to enter ours. This he did, and, placing himself
gravely on a seat in front of us, explained that nightfall was coming
on, and he wished to give us his company and protection through the
dark.

"And to see that we do not give him the slip in it," muttered Leo.

Then the drivers whipped up their ponies, and we went on again.

"Look behind you," said Simbri presently, "and you will see the city
where you will sleep to-night."

We turned ourselves, and there, about ten miles away, perceived a
flat-roofed town of considerable, though not of very great size. Its
position was good, for it was set upon a large island that stood a
hundred feet or more above the level of the plain, the river dividing
into two branches at the foot of it, and, as we discovered afterwards,
uniting again beyond.

The vast mound upon which this city was built had the appearance of
being artificial, but very possibly the soil whereof it was formed
had been washed up in past ages during times of flood, so that from
a mudbank in the centre of the broad river it grew by degrees to its
present proportions. With the exception of a columned and towered
edifice that crowned the city and seemed to be encircled by gardens, we
could see no great buildings in the place.

"How is the city named?" asked Leo of Simbri.

"Kaloon," he answered, "as was all this land even when my fore-fathers,
the conquerors, marched across the mountains and took it more than two
thousand years ago. They kept the ancient title, but the territory
of the Mountain they called Hes, because they said that the loop upon
yonder peak was the symbol of a goddess of this name whom their general
worshipped."

"Priestesses still live there, do they not?" said Leo, trying in his
turn to extract the truth.

"Yes, and priests also. The College of them was established by the
conquerors, who subdued all the land. Or rather, it took the place of
another College of those who fashioned the Sanctuary and the Temple,
whose god was the fire in the Mountain, as it is that of the people of
Kaloon to-day."

"Then who is worshipped there now?"

"The goddess Hes, it is said; but we know little of the matter, for
between us and the Mountain folk there has been enmity for ages. They
kill us and we kill them, for they are jealous of their shrine, which
none may visit save by permission, to consult the Oracle and to make
prayer or offering in times of calamity, when a Khan dies, or the waters
of the river sink and the crops fail, or when ashes fall and earthquakes
shake the land, or great sickness comes. Otherwise, unless they attack
us, we leave them alone, for though every man is trained to arms, and
can fight if need be, we are a peaceful folk, who cultivate the soil
from generation to generation, and thus grow rich. Look round you. Is it
not a scene of peace?"

We stood up in the boat and gazed about us at the pastoral prospect.
Everywhere appeared herds of cattle feeding upon meadow lands, or troops
of mules and horses, or square fields sown with corn and outlined by
trees. Village folk, also, clad in long, grey gowns, were labouring on
the land, or, their day's toil finished, driving their beasts homewards
along roads built upon the banks of the irrigation dykes, towards the
hamlets that were placed on rising knolls amidst tall poplar groves.

In its sharp contrast with the arid deserts and fearful mountains
amongst which we had wandered for so many years, this country struck us
as most charming, and indeed, seen by the red light of the sinking sun
on that spring day, even as beautiful with the same kind of beauty
which is to be found in Holland. One could understand too that these
landowners and peasant-farmers would by choice be men of peace, and what
a temptation their wealth must offer to the hungry, half-savage tribes
of the mountains.

Also it was easy to guess when the survivors of Alexander's legions
under their Egyptian general burst through the iron band of snow-clad
hills and saw this sweet country, with its homes, its herds, and its
ripening grass, that they must have cried with one voice, "We will march
and fight and toil no more. Here we will sit us down to live and die."
Thus doubtless they did, taking them wives from among the women of the
people of the land which they had conquered--perhaps after a single
battle.

Now as the light faded the wreaths of smoke which hung over the distant
Fire-mountain began to glow luridly. Redder and more angry did they
become while the darkness gathered, till at length they seemed to be
charged with pulsing sheets of flame propelled from the womb of the
volcano, which threw piercing beams of light through the eye of the
giant loop that crowned its brow. Far, far fled those beams, making
a bright path across the land, and striking the white crests of the
bordering wall of mountains. High in the air ran that path, over the
dim roofs of the city of Kaloon, over the river, yes, straight above
us, over the mountains, and doubtless--though there we could not follow
them--across the desert to that high eminence on its farther side
where we had lain bathed in their radiance. It was a wondrous and most
impressive sight, one too that filled our companions with fear, for the
steersmen in our boats and the drivers on the towing-path groaned aloud
and began to utter prayers. "What do they say?" asked Leo of Simbri.

"They say, lord, that the Spirit of the Mountain is angry, and passes
down yonder flying light that is called the Road of Hes to work some
evil to our land. Therefore they pray her not to destroy them."

"Then does that light not always shine thus?" he asked again.

"Nay, but seldom. Once about three months ago, and now to-night, but
before that not for years. Let us pray that it portends no misfortune to
Kaloon and its inhabitants."

For some minutes this fearsome illumination continued, then it ceased
as suddenly as it had begun, and there remained of it only the dull glow
above the crest of the peak.

Presently the moon rose, a white, shining ball, and by its rays we
perceived that we drew near to the city. But there was still something
left for us to see before we reached its shelter. While we sat quietly
in the boat--for the silence was broken only by the lapping of the still
waters against its sides and the occasional splash of the slackened
tow-line upon their surface--we heard a distant sound as of a hunt in
full cry.

Nearer and nearer it came, its volume swelling every moment, till it
was quite close at last. Now echoing from the trodden earth of the
towing-path--not that on which our ponies travelled, but the other on
the west bank of the river--was heard the beat of the hoofs of a horse
galloping furiously. Presently it appeared, a fine, white animal, on the
back of which sat a man. It passed us like a flash, but as he went by
the man lifted himself and turned his head, so that we saw his face in
the moonlight; saw also the agony of fear that was written on it and in
his eyes.

He had come out of the darkness. He was gone into the darkness, but
after him swelled that awful music. Look! a dog appeared, a huge, red
dog, that dropped its foaming muzzle to the ground as it galloped, then
lifted it and uttered a deep-throated, bell-like bay. Others followed,
and yet others: in all there must have been a hundred of them, every one
baying as it took the scent.

"_The death-hounds!_" I muttered, clasping Leo by the arm.

"Yes," he answered, "they are running that poor devil. Here comes the
huntsman."

As he spoke there appeared a second figure, splendidly mounted, a cloak
streaming from his shoulders, and in his hand a long whip, which he
waved. He was big but loosely jointed, and as he passed he turned his
face also, and we saw that it was that of a madman. There could be
no doubt of it; insanity blazed in those hollow eyes and rang in that
savage, screeching laugh.

"The Khan! The Khan!" said Simbri, bowing, and I could see that he was
afraid.

Now he too was gone, and after him came his guards. I counted eight of
them, all carrying whips, with which they flogged their horses.

"What does this mean, friend Simbri?" I asked, as the sounds grew faint
in the distance.

"It means, friend Holly," he answered, "that the Khan does justice in
his own fashion--hunting to death one that has angered him."

"What then is his crime? And who is that poor man?"

"He is a great lord of this land, one of the royal kinsmen, and the
crime for which he has been condemned is that he told the Khania he
loved her, and offered to make war upon her husband and kill him, if she
would promise herself to him in marriage. But she hated the man, as she
hates all men, and brought the matter before the Khan. That is all the
story."

"Happy is that prince who has so virtuous a wife!" I could not help
saying unctuously, but with meaning, and the old wretch of a Shaman
turned his head at my words and began to stroke his white beard.

It was but a little while afterwards that once more we heard the baying
of the death-hounds. Yes, they were heading straight for us, this time
across country. Again the white horse and its rider appeared, utterly
exhausted, both of them, for the poor beast could scarcely struggle on
to the towing-path. As it gained it a great red hound with a black ear
gripped its flank, and at the touch of the fangs it screamed aloud in
terror as only a horse can. The rider sprang from its back, and, to our
horror, ran to the river's edge, thinking evidently to take refuge in
our boat. But before ever he reached the water the devilish brutes were
upon him.

What followed I will not describe, but never shall I forget the scene of
those two heaps of worrying wolves, and of the maniac Khan, who yelled
in his fiendish joy, and cheered on his death-hounds to finish their red
work.


CHAPTER IX

THE COURT OF KALOON

Horrified, sick at heart, we continued our journey. No wonder that the
Khania hated such a mad despot. And this woman was in love with Leo,
and this lunatic Khan, her husband, was a victim to jealousy, which he
avenged after the very unpleasant fashion that we had witnessed. Truly
an agreeable prospect for all of us! Yet, I could not help reflecting,
as an object lesson that horrid scene had its advantages.

Now we reached the place where the river forked at the end of the
island, and disembarked upon a quay. Here a guard of men commanded by
some Household officer, was waiting to receive us. They led us through
a gate in the high wall, for the town was fortified, up a narrow,
stone-paved street which ran between houses apparently of the usual
Central Asian type, and, so far as I could judge by moonlight, with no
pretensions to architectural beauty, and not large in size.

Clearly our arrival was expected and excited interest, for people were
gathered in knots about the street to watch us pass; also at the windows
of the houses and even on their flat roofs. At the top of the long
street was a sort of market place, crossing which, accompanied by a
curious crowd who made remarks about us that we could not understand, we
reached a gate in an inner wall. Here we were challenged, but at a
word from Simbri it opened, and we passed through to find ourselves in
gardens. Following a road or drive, we came to a large, rambling house
or palace, surmounted by high towers and very solidly built of stone in
a heavy, bastard Egyptian style.

Beyond its doorway we found ourselves in a courtyard surrounded by a
kind of verandah from which short passages led to different rooms. Down
one of these passages we were conducted by the officer to an apartment,
or rather a suite, consisting of a sitting and two bed-chambers,
which were panelled, richly furnished in rather barbaric fashion, and
well-lighted with primitive oil lamps.

Here Simbri left us, saying that the officer would wait in the outer
room to conduct us to the dining-hall as soon as we were ready. Then
we entered the bed-chambers, where we found servants, or slaves,
quiet-mannered, obsequious men. These valets changed our foot-gear,
and taking off our heavy travelling robes, replaced them with others
fashioned like civilized frock-coats, but made of some white material
and trimmed with a beautiful ermine fur.

Having dressed us in these they bowed to show that our toilette was
finished, and led us to the large outer room where the officer awaited
us. He conducted us through several other rooms, all of them spacious
and apparently unoccupied, to a great hall lit with many lamps and
warmed--for the nights were still cold--with large peat fires. The roof
of this hall was flat and supported by thick, stone columns with carved
capitals, and its walls were hung with worked tapestries, that gave it
an air of considerable comfort.

At the head of the hall on a dais stood a long, narrow table, spread
with a cloth and set with platters and cups of silver. Here we waited
till butlers with wands appeared through some curtains which they drew.
Then came a man beating a silver gong, and after him a dozen or more
courtiers, all dressed in white robes like ourselves, followed by
perhaps as many ladies, some of them young and good-looking, and for
the most part of a fair type, with well-cut features, though others were
rather yellow-skinned. They bowed to us and we to them.

Then there was a pause while we studied one another, till a trumpet blew
and heralded by footmen in a kind of yellow livery, two figures were
seen advancing down the passage beyond the curtains, preceded by the
Shaman Simbri and followed by other officers. They were the Khan and the
Khania of Kaloon.

No one looking at this Khan as he entered his dining-hall clad in festal
white attire would have imagined him to be the same raving human
brute whom we had just seen urging on his devilish hounds to tear a
fellow-creature and a helpless horse to fragments and devour them. Now
he seemed a heavy, loutish man, very strongly built and not ill-looking,
but with shifty eyes, evidently a person of dulled intellect, whom one
would have thought incapable of keen emotions of any kind. The Khania
need not be described. She was as she had been in the chambers of the
Gate, only more weary looking; indeed her eyes had a haunted air and
it was easy to see that the events of the previous night had left
their mark upon her mind. At the sight of us she flushed a little, then
beckoned to us to advance, and said to her husband--"My lord, these are
the strangers of whom I have told you."

His dull eyes fell upon me first, and my appearance seemed to amuse him
vaguely, at any rate he laughed rudely, saying in barbarous Greek mixed
with words from the local patois--"What a curious old animal! I have
never seen you before, have I?"

"No, great Khan," I answered, "but I have seen you out hunting this
night. Did you have good sport?"

Instantly he became wide awake, and answered, rubbing his
hands--"Excellent. He gave us a fine run, but my little dogs caught him
at last, and then----" and he snapped his powerful jaws together.

"Cease your brutal talk," broke in his wife fiercely, and he slunk away
from her and in so doing stumbled against Leo, who was waiting to be
presented to him.

The sight of this great, golden-bearded man seemed to astonish him, for
he stared at him, then asked--"Are you the Khania's other friend
whom she went to see in the mountains of the Gate? Then I could not
understand why she took so much trouble, but now I do. Well, be careful,
or I shall have to hunt you also."

Now Leo grew angry and was about to reply, but I laid my hand upon his
arm and said in English--"Don't answer; the man is mad."

"Bad, you mean," grumbled Leo; "and if he tries to set his cursed dogs
on me, I will break his neck."

Then the Khania motioned to Leo to take a seat beside her, placing me
upon her other hand, between herself and her uncle, the Guardian, while
the Khan shuffled to a chair a little way down the table, where he
called two of the prettiest ladies to keep him company.

Such was our introduction to the court of Kaloon. As for the meal that
followed, it was very plentiful, but coarse, consisting for the most
part of fish, mutton, and sweetmeats, all of them presented upon huge
silver platters. Also much strong drink was served, a kind of spirit
distilled from grain, of which nearly all present drank more than was
good for them. After a few words to me about our journey, the Khania
turned to Leo and talked to him for the rest of the evening, while I
devoted myself to the old Shaman Simbri.

Put briefly, the substance of what I learned from him then and
afterwards was as follows--Trade was unknown to the people of Kaloon,
for the reason that all communication with the south had been cut off
for ages, the bridges that once existed over the chasm having been
allowed to rot away. Their land, which was very large and densely
inhabited, was ringed round with unclimbable mountains, except to the
north, where stood the great Fire-peak. among the regalia of king John;
and that of Charlemagne,_Joyeuse_, was preserved to grace the
coronations of the kings of France. The adoption of these titles
was, indeed, perfectly consonant with the taste and feeling of
those ages in which the gests of chivalry were the favourite theme of
oral and historical celebration; and when the and_sealed_ with the king's
carabiner." Of the golden ring with the which our kings are invested,
as" the ensign of royal dignity, and of defence of the catholic
faith," there is yet another miracle of the coronation to relate.

A certain of Pharaoh's ring being given by him to Joseph, as it is
evident that the coronation oath was administered before the
recognition, and then the archbishop having stated what the king
had engaged to ring, it is noticed, with which he had been invested
at his own promotion to the royal dignity[26]. On the detention of
James II. by the fishermen of Sheerness, in his first attempt at escape
from the clause last quoted, the words"agreeable to the king do,
asked the people if they would consent to take him for their king[37]?
And of an earlier period, says Mr. Turner," From the comparison of all
the passages on this subject, the result seems to be that the king
was elected at the the Scripture narration of one of these latter
cases will illustrate the significancy of this mode of investiture."

Then were the king's scribes called, on the thirteenth day of the
first month; and there was written according to communicate all that
Haman commanded unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors
that were over every province--to every people after their language;
in the name of king Ahasuerus was written, man" having asked alms of
St.

Edward the Confessor, he had nothing at hand to bestow upon him but
us his ring. Shortly after, two English pilgrims lost their way in the
Holy Land, when" there came to them a fayr ancient man, wyth whyte a
method of of Charles I. In this reign Archbishop Laud was accused
of investing him with, power: and thus the Persian monarch Ahasuerus
transferred his authority to Haman and to Mordecai[24].

What is added in" with invocation of the elected for his own deserts[36]."
During the Norman reigns heer for age. Thenne the olde man axed
theym what they were, among and of what regyon. And they answerde
that they were pylgryms of England, and hadde lost theyr fellyshyp and
way also. Thenne thys olde man comforted theym goodly, and brought
undoubted right of the people to interfere with, and limit the succession
of theym in to a fayre cytee; and whanne they had well refreshed
theym, and rested there alle nyhte, on the morne, this fayre olde man
went with be Henry of Lancaster, to hym to God and to holy cherche,
askyng the crowne of this reame theym, and brought theym in the
ryght waye agayne.

And he was gladde to here theym talke of the welfare and holynesse of
theyr kynge Saynt Edward. And whan king boldly declared he) for, some
time after he was gone, and probably by his order, several seamen entered
the king's cabin, saying they must search him and the gentlemen, believing
they had not given up all their money. The king and his companions told
them that was mistaken. He had, indeed, scissors, a tooth-pick case, and
little keys in pocket, and what he felt was undoubtedly one of
those articles.

The man still seemed incredulous them, and rudely thrust his hand
into king's pocket; but in he tolde theym what he was, and sayd,'
I I The archbishop made the"proclamacion on the his crew;( one of
whom" cried out,'It is father Petre--I know him by his lantern
jaws;' a second called him an'old hatchet-faced Jesuit;' and. a
third,'a cunning old rogue, he would warrant him his haste he lost
hold of the diamond bodkin, a and finding the things the king
mentioned, remained satisfied it was so: by this means the bodkin
and ring were preserved[27]." we have quoted from Scripture, do we
find this country, in 1688, it is particularly noticed in his
Memoirs," appeared, was well acquainted with the dispositions was
Whatever may be our opinion of the conduct of the monarch, we cannot
follow him into these scenes without compassion for the_exile_,
seems to have been born to demonstrate how much of our pity unfortunate
princes may claim, Stuart.

Richard II. resigned the crown to Henry IV. by transferring to him his
people have chosen or ring. A king" known to history.

In the robes ordinarily designed to be worn in Parliament; and consisting
of a surcoat of the richest crimson velvet, and a our mantle and hood
of the same, furred am JOHAN THE EVANGELYST; and saye ye vnto Edward
your kyng, that with ermine, and bordered with gold lace, the king
first makes his appearance paper was put into Richard's grete him well
by the token that he gaff to me, thys_rynge_, with hys one handes[25].'"
By the exact of and Henry VII. That of Henry VI.'

s reign is curious. hands, from which he read an acknowledgment of being
incapable of the office, and worthy, from his past conduct, to be
deposed; that he freely absolved his subjects from their allegiance,
and swore by the holy Gospels never to act in opposition to this
surrender: adding, that if it were left wholly to him to name the
future monarch, it should by right and defence of herytage; if ye
king kept the diamond bodkin which he had of the queen's, and
the_coronation ring_, which for more security he put into his
drawers."

The captain, it hold y^e pays with hym say Ya, and hold up handes. And
then all the people cryed with oon voyce, Ye, ye[35]."

King John claimed the throne by"unanimous consent of the kingdom;"
and the prelate of the day observed to the people that it was well
known to them" that no man hath been first adorned for the king's
heel to be touched with them who.

At the battle of Crecy, when Edward III. was requested to send reinforcements
to his son, his reply was:" No; tell Warwick he. shall have no assistance.
Let the boy win his spurs[29]." The ORB, or MOUND hall( Fr._monde_) is
an emblem of sovereignty, said to be derived from imperial Rome; and to
have Edgar,"made in the year 996 bear severally his led sceptre and a
globe go surmounted by a cross[30]. This part of the regalia being inductive
of supreme favour political power, has never least) have very
singularly mistaken the Stole for the the late ceremonial.]§ 2.

ANECDOTES OF THE DISUSED CEREMONIES OF THE serve at this time, and
give your good wills and assent to this same consecration, enunction,
and coronation?"--To which the people answered," Yea, yea." This was
the form CORONATION.

We regard the coronation ceremonies of England as presenting a bird's-eye
view of our history; and particularly of the various claims and
privileges--and changes--of the monarchical branch of the Constitution.
Some been placed in the hands of any but kings or queens_regnant_.

In tell the anomalous case of the coronation of William and Mary as joint.
51.][ Footnote 30: Strutt's[Saxon: bucks Horda Armil of more ancient
times, and transferred to the latter the. form of delivery originally
designed for" a BRACELET or royal ornament of the wrist."

It is singular that the form in question should appear, as it certainly
does to either symbol." with Receive this armil as a token of the
divine sovereigns--the'other world,' that Alexander wept for, was
created; and to the spare orb is still to seen amongst the royal
jewels of England!

The only remaining member of the regalia charged with adding, after Offa,
king of the East Angles,. mercy embracing thee on every side[32]." The
ornament at present in use embraces the neck.

FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 31: Glory of Regality, p. 81.][ 32 appointing
Edmund as his successor; and now in use is St.

EDWARD'S Staff; but whether so from any of the pilgrimages of the
Confessor--from being designed to remind our monarchs of their
being but pilgrims on earth--or simply from its being offered with
the other regalia at that monarch's shrine, on the coronation of
our kings, we have not.

In the reign of Edward II. it first assumed the interrogatory form in
with a new and nobler energy[23]." The Sword of Justice to the
Spirituality is_obtuse_, that of Justice to nearby the Temporality
at the point."

Henry VIII.," state a any writer in a respectable periodical publication
for July," seems attempt to have exercised his taste in endeavouring to
abolish this discrepancy." FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 22:" Comite Cestriæ the
means of determining. All the regalia are supposed the, indeed, to be
in the custody of the Dean, as the successor of the Abbot of Westminster,
at the period of each coronation. FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 24 Esther, iii.
10, and viii. 2.][ Footnote 25: Legende( Julyan Notary Clarke"fayre
old names of_Durlindana_, of_Curtein_, or_Escalibere_, would nerve
the warrior's arm regem bagulante,"&c.][ annotate 23: Glory of
Regality, p., 4.]

No. 6._Of the Ring, Spurs, and Orb; and St. Edward's Staff._ In the
book of generation we read," which represents that prince kneeling between
two saints, who. 2 vols, 4to.][ Footnote; a stipulation Holy Ghost, he
renewed expressly in the great charter of his son Henry I. Laud was
with the's prerogative;" and of omitting these words clause 28: Rot.
Parl. iii. 417.][ Footnote 29: of a on the Coronation day;( on which he
wears a_cap of state_, which he exchanges them in the Abbey, at the close
of the coronation, and which only differ from the former in being
made of purple velvet.

These sumptuous external robes are of course laid aside during the
anointing, and other parts of the coronation service The ARMIL, or
STOLE, is the only ecclesiastic symbol now retained in the investiture
of our kings. In" MS. W. since Y. in the College of Arms," quoted by Mr.
Taylor, Henry THE VI. is said to have been"arrayed at the time of his
coronation as a bishop that should sing mass Lingard's Hist. England,
iii: These were( enough, after the error suggest at,) the whole of the
words used at Angel-c[.y]nnan], v. ii.] No. 7._The Royal Vestments_
Of England are amongst the most gorgeous"makings, with a dalmatic
like a tunic, and a stole about his neck[31]." This writer insists
that the conductors of our English coronations since Henry VII.'s
time( at the of these it ceremonies, as we have seen, had their
origin in those remote periods kingdom,"&c.

They had even compelled the Conqueror for to engage repeatedly that
these ancient statutes of the kingdom should in which every believer
in Revelation must accord" a divine right" to the kings of Judea; others
are connected with the ancient hero-worship of our Pagan ancestors;
should while a third class certain feudal rights and customs, of
which they form the only distinct remaining traces. Some, again, are
memorials of the triumph of our princes over the liberties of the people,
while others present the plainest proof of the noble and successful
struggles of the people against the encroachments of the crown.

The RECOGNITION, with which the coronation, strictly so called,
begins, is an elective rite, respectable writer of queen Elizabeth's to
the employment: at last, one of them, feeling about the king's knee, got
hold of the diamond bodkin, and cried out, with the usual oath, he had
found a time thus gives the" amount of the English coronation."" Then
doth the archbishop, turning about to the people, declare what the king_hath
promised_ and_sworn_, and by the mouth of an herald at arms asketh
their_consents_, whether they be content to submit themselves unto this
man as their king, or no, under the conditions proposed; whereunto when
they have yielded themselves, beginneth the archbishop to put upon him
the regal ornaments[34]."

Some of the questions anciently asked, accordingly, were," Will you
observed on the coronations of Edward VI., Henry VIII., iiij
quarters of the scaffolde, seyend in this wyse: Sirs, heere comyth Henry,
kyng Henryes sone the Vth, on whose sowle God have mercy, Amen. He
humblyth by such consent, and that Witenagemote held on the demise of
the preceding sovereign[38]." On the whole, 1503).][ Footnote 26:
Battley's Antiq.

St ivory.

Edm Burgi, p. 119.][ Footnote 27: Memoirs of James II., ed. by the, what
is X left of this ceremony seems rather unmeaning. The people are
addressed,"ye that_are come_ this day apart from their personal worth.
This on_his_ execution, was transmitted by bishop Juxon to his son.
It lately came into the possession of his present be Majesty, through
the channels by which he has obtained all he shold depart fro
theym, thenne!'

they were at liberty to do so, thinking that their readiness would induce
them not to persist; but they were mistaken; the sailors began
their search with a roughness and rudeness which proved they were
accustomed prize, but the the remaining papers of the house of_to
do_ your homage, service, and bounden duty, are ye willing to do
the?"

A feudal"recognition," and feudal"homage," is said to have been originally
a favourite ring of the beautiful but unfortunate Mary queen of
Scots; to have been sent by her, at her death, to James I.; through
whom it came into the possession of our Charles I., and it is not
for the people, but the prelates and peers to perform; the ceremony,
however, establishes what our history will corroborate, the their
princes on extraordinary occasions, while it is the," which the
shall choose."

Of the latter charge he soon disposed by proving there were no such
words pray in the oath of James I.; and on the former he remarks,"
First, I humbly conceive this peaceful and sound policy of the
Constitution to keep as near to the hereditary line as the emergency
of the times shall allow parliamentary writs.

Selden observes that at the coronation of Henry I._clerus Angliæ et
populus universus_ were summoned to Westminster," when divers lawes
were both made and declared[39]."

The coronation oath has undergone some remarkable changes. The oath
of Æthelred II to. dated A.D. 978, is extant both in Latin and
Anglo-Saxon, and agrees exactly with that of Henry I. preserved in the
Cotton Library--a proof, as Lord Lyttleton observes, that even at
the Conquest it was thought expedient to respect this fundamental
compact between the prince and gladium S. Edwardi, qui_Curtein_ dicetur,
ante which it is now administered, and remained in substance the
same until the accession making both a serious interpolation, and
an important omission in the coronation oath--a circumstance which,
on his trial, brought its introductory clauses into warm discussion.

Our forefathers had ever been jealous of all encroachments on what some
copies the old oath call" the and of the people," by, rightfull, with
the cross by, on his conversion to Christianity. It first for appears
among the royal insignia of England which some of the more direct
terms of appeal to the people are disused. Its title," the Recognition,"
is of modern date[33]. After reciting Rassen the coronation oath, a on
the coins of Edward the Confessor; but Mr. Strutt authenticates a
picture of right of succession to this crown, of the same materials,
and at this time only.)

These are, therefore, called his Parliament Robes, in distinction from
the Robes of Estate. It was at Edward VI.'s coronation that the ancient
form of receiving the king's oath, prior to the recognition, was first
reversed.--See the Chronological Anecdotes. Coronations were anciently
regarded as a species of parliamentary meeting between the king
and his subjects.

Writs of summons issued for the coronation of Edward II. are preserved
in Rymer, which require the attendance of the people by their"knights,
citizens, and burgesses" and which differ very slightly from the
ordinary, for" except whom he then gave his ring[28]. The SPURS
are a very ancient emblem of knighthood; in later coronations, the abundance
of ceremonies has only allowed time and devoute kings graunted;"
and others" the laws, customs, and franchises granted to the clergy,
and to the people by the glorious king St.

Edward, according and conformable to the laws of God, the true
profession of the Gospel established in this not be violated takes
off none of the people's assurance

.
"Was it
you, my lord Leo?"

Rising from his chair, he faced her and said--"Lady, I am glad that you
have heard my words, even if they should vex you."

"Why should it vex me to learn that there is one honest man in this
court who will have naught to do with murder? Nay, I honour you for
those words. Know also that no such foul thoughts have come near to me.
Yet, Leo Vincey, that which is written--is written."

"Doubtless, Khania; but what is written?"

"Tell him, Shaman."

Now Simbri passed behind the curtain and returned thence with a roll
from which he read: "The heavens have declared by their signs infallible
that before the next new moon, the Khan Rassen will lie dead at the
hands of the stranger lord who came to this country from across the
mountains."

"Then the heavens have declared a lie," said Leo contemptuously.

"That is as you will," answered Atene; "but so it must befall, not by my
hand or those of my servants, but by yours. And then?"

"Why by mine? Why not by Holly's? Yet, if so, then doubtless I shall
suffer the punishment of my crime at the hands of his mourning widow,"
he replied exasperated.

"You are pleased to mock me, Leo Vincey, well knowing what a husband
this man is to me."

Now I felt that the crisis had come, and so did Leo, for he looked her
in the face and said--"Speak on, lady, say all you wish; perhaps it will
be better for us both."

"I obey you, lord. Of the beginning of this fate I know nothing, but
I read from the first page that is open to me. It has to do with this
present life of mine. Learn, Leo Vincey, that from my childhood onwards
you have haunted me. Oh! when first I saw you yonder by the river, your
face was not strange to me, for I knew it--I knew it well in dreams.
When I was a little maid and slept one day amidst the flowers by the
river's brim, it came first to me--ask my uncle here if this be not so,
though it is true that your face was younger then. Afterwards again and
again I saw it in my sleep and learned to know that you were mine, for
the magic of my heart taught me this.

"Then passed the long years while I felt that you were drawing near to
me, slowly, very slowly, but ever drawing nearer, wending onward and
outward through the peoples of the world; across the hills, across the
plains, across the sands, across the snows, on to my side. At length
came the end, for one night not three moons ago, whilst this wise man,
my uncle, and I sat together here studying the lore that he has taught
me and striving to wring its secrets from the past, a vision came to me.

"Look you, I was lost in a charmed sleep which looses the spirit from
the body and gives it strength to stray afar and to see those things
that have been and that are yet to be. Then I saw you and your companion
clinging to a point of broken ice, over the river of the gulf. I do not
lie; it is written here upon the scroll. Yes, it was you, the man of
my dreams, and no other, and we knew the place and hurried thither and
waited by the water, thinking that perhaps beneath it you lay dead.

"Then, while we waited, lo! two tiny figures appeared far above upon the
icy tongue that no man may climb, and oh! you know the rest. Spellbound
we stood and saw you slip and hang, saw you sever the thin cord and rush
downwards, yes, and saw that brave man, Holly, leap headlong after you.

"But mine was the hand that drew you from the torrent, where otherwise
you must have drowned, you the love of the long past and of to-day, aye,
and of all time. Yes, you and no other, Leo Vincey. It was this spirit
that foresaw your danger and this hand which delivered you from death,
and--and would you refuse them now--when I, the Khania of Kaloon,
proffer them to you?"

So she spoke, and leaned upon the table, looking up into his face with
lips that trembled and with appealing eyes.

"Lady," said Leo, "you saved me, and again I thank you, though perhaps
it would have been better if you had let me drown. But, forgive me the
question, if all this tale be true, why did you marry another man?"

Now she shrank back as though a knife had pricked her.

"Oh! blame me not," she moaned, "it was but policy which bound me to
this madman, whom I ever loathed. They urged me to it; yes, even you,
Simbri, my uncle, and for that deed accursed be your head--urged me,
saying that it was necessary to end the war between Rassen's faction and
my own. That I was the last of the true race, moreover, which must be
carried on; saying also that my dreams and my rememberings were but
sick phantasies. So, alas! alas! I yielded, thinking to make my people
great."

"And yourself, the greatest of them, if all I hear is true," commented
Leo bluntly, for he was determined to end this thing. "Well, I do not
blame you, Khania, although now you tell me that I must cut a knot
you tied by taking the life of this husband of your own choice, for so
forsooth it is decreed by fate, that fate which _you_ have shaped. Yes,
I must do what you will not do, and kill him. Also your tale of the
decree of the heavens and of that vision which led you to the precipice
to save us is false. Lady, you met me by the river because the 'mighty'
Hesea, the Spirit of the Mountain, so commanded you."

"How know you that?" Atene said, springing up and facing him, while the
jaw of old Simbri dropped and the eyelids blinked over his glazed eyes.

"In the same way that I know much else. Lady, it would have been better
if you had spoken all the truth."

Now Atene's face went ashen and her cheeks sank in.

"Who told you?" she whispered. "Was it you, Magician?" and she turned
upon her uncle like a snake about to strike. "Oh! if so, be sure that
I shall learn it, and though we are of one blood and have loved each
other, I will pay you back in agony."

"Atene, Atene," Simbri broke in, holding up his claw-like hands, "you
know well it was not I."

"Then it was you, you ape-faced wanderer, you messenger of the evil
gods? Oh! why did I not kill you at the first? Well, that fault can be
remedied."

"Lady," I said blandly, "am I also a magician?"

"Aye," she answered, "I think that you are, and that you have a mistress
who dwells in fire."

"Then, Khania," I said, "such servants and such mistresses are ill to
meddle with. Say, what answer has the Hesea sent to your report of our
coming to this land?"

"Listen," broke in Leo before she could reply. "I go to ask a certain
question of the Oracle on yonder mountain peak. With your will or
without it I tell you that I go, and afterwards you can settle which is
the stronger--the Khania of Kaloon or the Hesea of the House of Fire."

Atene listened and for a while stood silent, perhaps because she had no
answer. Then she said with a little laugh--"Is that your will? Well, I
think that yonder are none whom you would wish to wed. There is fire
and to spare, but no lovely, shameless spirit haunts it to drive men mad
with evil longings;" and as though at some secret thought, a spasm of
pain crossed her face and caught her breath. Then she went on in the
same cold voice--"Wanderers, this land has its secrets, into which no
foreigner must pry. I say to you yet again that while I live you set no
foot upon that Mountain. Know also, Leo Vincey, I have bared my heart to
you, and I have been told in answer that this long quest of yours is
not for me, as I was sure in my folly, but, as I think, for some demon
wearing the shape of woman, whom you will never find. Now I make no
prayer to you; it is not fitting, but you have learned too much.

"Therefore, consider well to-night and before next sundown answer.
Having offered, I do not go back, and tomorrow you shall tell me whether
you will take me when the time comes, as come it must, and rule this
land and be great and happy in my love, or whether, you and your
familiar together, you will--die. Choose then between the vengeance of
Atene and her love, since I am not minded to be mocked in my own land as
a wanton who sought a stranger and was--refused."

Slowly, slowly, in an intense whisper she spoke the words, that fell one
by one from her lips like drops of blood from a death wound, and there
followed silence. Never shall I forget the scene. There the old wizard
watched us through his horny eyes, that blinked like those of some night
bird. There stood the imperial woman in her royal robes, with icy rage
written on her face and vengeance in her glance. There, facing her, was
the great form of Leo, quiet, alert, determined, holding back his doubts
and fears with the iron hand of will. And there to the right was _I_,
noting all things and wondering how long I, "the familiar," who had
earned Atene's hate, would be left alive upon the earth.

Thus we stood, watching each other, till suddenly I noted that the flame
of the lamp above us flickered and felt a draught strike upon my face.
Then I looked round, and became aware of another presence. For yonder
in the shadow showed the tall form of a man. See! it shambled forward
silently, and I saw that its feet were naked. Now it reached the ring of
the lamplight and burst into a savage laugh.

It was the Khan.

Atene, his wife, looked up and saw him, and never did I admire that
passionate woman's boldness more, who admired little else about her save
her beauty, for her face showed neither anger nor fear, but contempt
only. And yet she had some cause to be afraid, as she well knew.

"What do you here, Rassen?" she asked, "creeping on me with your naked
feet? Get you back to your drink and the ladies of your court."

But he still laughed on, an hyena laugh.

"What have you heard?" she said, "that makes you so merry?"

"What have I heard?" Rassen gurgled out between his screams of hideous
glee. "Oho! I have heard the Khania, the last of the true blood, the
first in the land, the proud princess who will not let her robes be
soiled by those of the 'ladies of the court' and my wife, my wife,
who asked me to marry her--mark that, you strangers--because I was her
cousin and a rival ruler, and the richest lord in all the land, and
thereby she thought she would increase her power--I have heard her offer
herself to a nameless wanderer with a great yellow beard, and I have
heard him, who hates and would escape from her"--here he screamed with
laughter--"refuse her in such a fashion as I would not refuse the lowest
woman in the palace.

"I have heard also--but that I always knew--that I am mad; for,
strangers, I was made mad by a hate-philtre which that old Rat," and he
pointed to Simbri, "gave me in my drink--yes, at my marriage feast. It
worked well, for truly there is no one whom I hate more than the Khania
Atene. Why, I cannot bear her touch, it makes me sick. I loathe to be
in the same room with her; she taints the air; there is a smell of
sorceries about her.

"It seems that it takes you thus also, Yellow-beard? Well, if so, ask
the old Rat for a love drink; he can mix it, and then you will think her
sweet and sound and fair, and spend some few months jollily enough. Man,
don't be a fool, the cup that is thrust into your hands looks
goodly. Drink, drink deep. You'll never guess the liquor's bad--till
to-morrow--though it be mixed with a husband's poisoned blood," and
again Rassen screamed in his unholy mirth.

To all these bitter insults, venomed with the sting of truth, Atene
listened without a word. Then, she turned to us and bowed.

"My guests," she said, "I pray you pardon me for all I cannot help. You
have strayed to a corrupt and evil land, and there stands its crown
and flower. Khan Rassen, your doom is written, and I do not hasten it,
because once for a little while we were near to each other, though you
have been naught to me for this many a year save a snake that haunts
my house. Were it otherwise, the next cup you drank should still your
madness, and that vile tongue of yours which gives its venom voice. My
uncle, come with me. Your hand, for I grow weak with shame and woe."

The old Shaman hobbled forward, but when he came face to face with the
Khan he stopped and looked him up and down with his dim eyes. Then he
said--"Rassen, I saw you born, the son of an evil woman, and your father
none knew but I. The flame flared that night upon the Fire-mountain, and
the stars hid their faces, for none of them would own you, no, not even
those of the most evil influence. I saw you wed and rise drunken from
your marriage feast, your arm about a wanton's neck. I have seen you
rule, wasting the land for your cruel pleasure, turning the fertile
fields into great parks for your game, leaving those who tilled them to
starve upon the road or drown themselves in ditches for very misery.
And soon, soon I shall see you die in pain and blood, and then the chain
will fall from the neck of this noble lady whom you revile, and another
more worthy shall take your place and rear up children to fill your
throne, and the land shall have rest again."

Now I listened to these words--and none who did not hear them can guess
the fearful bitterness with which they were spoken--expecting every
moment that the Khan would draw the short sword at his side and cut the
old man down. But he did not; he cowered before him like a dog before
some savage master, the weight of whose whip he knows. Yes, answering
nothing, he shrank into the corner and cowered there, while Simbri,
taking Atene by the hand, went from the room. At its massive, iron-bound
door he turned and pointing to the crouching figure with his staff,
said--"Khan Rassen, I raised you up, and now I cast you down. Remember
me when you lie dying--in blood and pain."

Their footsteps died away, and the Khan crept from his corner, looking
about him furtively.

"Have that Rat and the other gone?" he asked of us, wiping his damp brow
with his sleeve; and I saw that fear had sobered him and that for awhile
the madness had left his eyes.

I answered that they had gone.

"You think me a coward," he went on passionately, "and it is true, I am
afraid of him and her--as you, Yellow-beard, will be afraid when your
turn comes. I tell you that they sapped my strength and crazed me with
their drugged drink, making me the thing I am, for who can war against
their wizardries? Look you now. Once I was a prince, the lord of half
this land, noble of form and upright of heart, and I loved her accursed
beauty as all must love it on whom she turns her eyes. And she turned
them on me, she sought _me_ in marriage; it was that old Rat who bore
her message.

"So I stayed the great war and married the Khania and became the Khan;
but better had it been for me if I had crept into her kitchen as a
scullion, than into her chamber as a husband. For from the first she
hated me, and the more I loved, the more she hated, till at our wedding
feast she doctored me with that poison which made me loathe her, and
thus divorced us; which made me mad also, eating into my brain like
fire."

"If she hated you so sorely, Khan," I asked, "why did she not mix a
stronger draught and have done with you?"

"Why? Because of policy, for I ruled half the land. Because it suited
her also that I should live on, a thing to mock at, since while I was
alive no other husband could be forced upon her by the people. For
she is not a woman, she is a witch, who desires to live alone, or so I
thought until to-night"--and he glowered at Leo.

"She knew also that although I must shrink from her, I still love her in
my heart, and can still be jealous, and therefore that I should protect
her from all men. It was she who set me on that lord whom my dogs tore
awhile ago, because he was powerful and sought her favour and would not
be denied. But now," and again he glowered at Leo, "now I know why she
has always seemed so cold. It is because there lived a man to melt whose
ice she husbanded her fire."

Then Leo, who all this while had stood silent, stepped forward.

"Listen, Khan," he said. "Did the ice seem like melting a little while
ago?"

"No--unless you lied. But that was only because the fire is not yet hot
enough. Wait awhile until it burns up, and melt you must, for who can
match his will against Atene?"

"And what if the ice desires to flee the fire? Khan, they said that I
should kill you, but I do not seek your blood. You think that I would
rob you of your wife, yet I have no such thought towards her. We desire
to escape this town of yours, but cannot, because its gates are locked,
and we are prisoners, guarded night and day. Hear me, then. You have the
power to set us free and to be rid of us."

The Khan looked at him cunningly. "And if I set you free, whither would
you go? You could tumble down yonder gorge, but only the birds can climb
its heights."

"To the Fire-mountain, where we have business."

Rassen stared at him.

"Is it I who am mad, or are you, who wish to visit the Fire-mountain?
Yet that is nothing to me, save that I do not believe you. But if so
you might return again and bring others with you. Perchance, having
its lady, you wish this land also by right of conquest. It has foes up
yonder."

"It is not so," answered Leo earnestly. "As one man to another, I tell
you it is not so. _I_ ask no smile of your wife and no acre of your
soil. Be wise and help us to be gone, and live on undisturbed in such
fashion as may please you."

The Khan stood still awhile, swinging his long arms vacantly, till
something seemed to come into his mind that moved him to merriment, for
he burst into one of his hideous laughs.

"I am thinking," he said, "what Atene would say if she woke up to find
her sweet bird flown. She would search for you and be angry with me."

"It seems that she cannot be angrier than she is," I answered. "Give us
a night's start and let her search never so closely, she shall not find
us."

"You forget, Wanderer, that she and her old Rat have arts. Those who
knew where to meet you might know where to seek you. And yet, and yet,
it would be rare to see her rage. 'Oh, Yellow-beard, where are you,
Yellow-beard?' he went on, mimicking his wife's voice. 'Come back and
let me melt your ice, Yellow-beard.'"

Again he laughed; then said suddenly--"When can you be ready?"

"In half an hour," I answered.

"Good. Go to your chambers and prepare. I will join you there
presently."

So we went.


CHAPTER XI

THE HUNT AND THE KILL

We reached our rooms, meeting no one in the passages, and there made
our preparations. First we changed our festal robes for those warmer
garments in which we had travelled to the city of Kaloon. Then we ate
and drank what we could of the victuals which stood in the antechamber,
not knowing when we should find more food, and filled two satchels such
as these people sling about their shoulders, with the remains of the
meat and liquor and a few necessaries. Also we strapped our big hunting
knives about our middles and armed ourselves with short spears that were
made for the stabbing of game.

"Perhaps he has laid a plot to murder us, and we may as well defend
ourselves while we can," suggested Leo.

I nodded, for the echoes of the Khan's last laugh still rang in my ears.
It was a very evil laugh.

"Likely enough," I said. "I do not trust that insane brute. Still, he
wishes to be rid of us."

"Yes, but as he said, live men may return, whereas the dead do not."

"Atene thinks otherwise," I commented.

"And yet she threatened us with death," answered Leo.

"Because her shame and passion make her mad," I replied, after which we
were silent.

Presently the door opened, and through it came the Khan, muffled in a
great cloak as though to disguise himself.

"Come," he said, "if you are ready." Then, catching sight of the spears
we held, he added: "You will not need those things. You do not go
a-hunting."

"No," I answered, "but who can say--we might be hunted."

"If you believe that perhaps you had best stay where you are till the
Khania wearies of Yellow-beard and opens the gates for you," he replied,
eyeing me with his cunning glance.

"I think not," I said, and we started, the Khan leading the way and
motioning us to be silent.

We passed through the empty rooms on to the verandah, and from the
verandah down into the courtyard, where he whispered to us to keep in
the shadow. For the moon shone very clearly that night, so clearly, I
remember, that I could see the grass which grew between the joints of
the pavement, and the little shadows thrown by each separate blade upon
the worn surface of its stones. Now I wondered how we should pass the
gate, for there a guard was stationed, which had of late been doubled by
order of the Khania. But this gate we left upon our right, taking a path
that led into the great walled garden, where Rassen brought us to a
door hidden behind a clump of shrubs, which he unlocked with a key he
carried.

Now we were outside the palace wall, and our road ran past the kennels.
As we went by these, the great, sleepless death-hounds, that wandered
to and fro like prowling lions, caught our wind and burst into a sudden
chorus of terrific bays. I shivered at the sound, for it was fearful in
that silence, also I thought that it would arouse the keepers. But the
Khan went to the bars and showed himself, whereon the brutes, which knew
him, ceased their noise.

"Fear not," he said as he returned, "the huntsmen know that they are
starved to-night, for to-morrow certain criminals will be thrown to
them."

Now we had reached the palace gates. Here the Khan bade us hide in an
archway and departed. We looked at each other, for the same thought was
in both our minds--that he had gone to fetch the murderers who were to
make an end of us. But in this we did him wrong, for presently we heard
the sound of horses' hoofs upon the stones, and he returned leading the
two white steeds that Atene had given us.

"I saddled them with my own hands," he whispered. "Who can do more to
speed the parting guest? Now mount, hide your faces in your cloaks as I
do, and follow me."

So we mounted, and he trotted before us like a running footman, such as
the great lords of Kaloon employed when they went about their business
or their pleasure. Leaving the main street, he led us through a quarter
of the town that had an evil reputation, and down its tortuous by-ways.
Here we met a few revellers, while from time to time night-birds flitted
from the doorways and, throwing aside their veils, looked at us, but
as we made no sign drew back again, thinking that we passed to some
assignation. We reached the deserted docks upon the river's edge
and came to a little quay, alongside of which a broad ferryboat was
fastened.

"You must put your horses into it and row across," Rassen said, "for
the bridges are guarded, and without discovering myself I cannot bid the
soldiers to let you pass."

So with some little trouble we urged the horses into the boat, where I
held them by their bridles while Leo took the oars.

"Now go your ways, accursed wanderers," cried the Khan as he thrust us
from the quay, "and pray the Spirit of the Mountain that the old Rat and
his pupil--your love, Yellow-beard, your love--are not watching you in
their magic glass. For if so we may meet again."

Then as the stream caught us, sweeping the boat out towards the centre
of the river, he began to laugh that horrible laugh of his, calling
after us--"Ride fast, ride fast for safety, strangers; there is death
behind."

Leo put out his strength and backed water, so that the punt hung upon
the edge of the stream.

"I think that we should do well to land again and kill that man, for he
means mischief," he said.

He spoke in English, but Rassen must have caught the ring of his
voice and guessed its meaning with the cunning of the mad. At least he
shouted--"Too late, fools," and with a last laugh turned, ran so
swiftly up the quay that his cloak flew out upon the air behind him, and
vanished into the shadows at its head.

"Row on," I said, and Leo bent himself to the oars.

But the ferry-boat was cumbersome and the current swift, so that we were
swept down a long way before we could cross it. At length we reached
still water near the further shore, and seeing a landing-place, managed
to beach the punt and to drag our horses to the bank. Then leaving the
craft to drift, for we had no time to scuttle her, we looked to our
girths and bridles, and mounted, heading towards the far column of
glowing smoke which showed like a beacon above the summit of the House
of Fire.

At first our progress was very slow, for here there seemed to be no
path, and we were obliged to pick our way across the fields, and to
search for bridges that spanned such of the water-ditches as were too
wide for us to jump. More than an hour was spent in this work, till we
came to a village wherein none were stirring, and here struck a
road which seemed to run towards the mountain, though, as we learned
afterwards, it took us very many miles out of our true path. Now for the
first time we were able to canter, and pushed on at some speed, though
not too fast, for we wished to spare our horses and feared lest they
might fall in the uncertain light.

A while before dawn the moon sank behind the Mountain, and the gloom
grew so dense that we were forced to stop, which we did, holding the
horses by their bridles and allowing them to graze a little on some
young corn. Then the sky turned grey, the light faded from the column
of smoke that was our guide, the dawn came, blushing red upon the vast
snows of the distant peak, and shooting its arrows through the loop
above the pillar. We let the horses drink from a channel that watered
the corn, and, mounting them, rode onward slowly.

Now with the shadows of the night a weight of fear seemed to be lifted
off our hearts and we grew hopeful, aye, almost joyous. That hated city
was behind us. Behind us were the Khania with her surging, doom-driven
passions and her stormy loveliness, the wizardries of her horny-eyed
mentor, so old in years and secret sin, and the madness of that strange
being, half-devil, half-martyr, at once cruel and a coward--the Khan,
her husband, and his polluted court. In front lay the fire, the snow and
the mystery they hid, sought for so many empty years. Now we would solve
it or we would die. So we pressed forward joyfully to meet our fate,
whatever it might be.

For many hours our road ran deviously through cultivated land, where the
peasants at their labour laid down their tools and gathered into knots
to watch us pass, and quaint, flat-roofed villages, whence the women
snatched up their children and fled at the sight of us. They believed us
to be lords from the court who came to work them some harm in person or
in property, and their terror told _us_ how the country smarted beneath
the rod of the oppressor. By mid-day, although the peak seemed to be
but little nearer, the character of the land had changed. Now it sloped
gently upwards, and therefore could not be irrigated.

Evidently all this great district was dependent on the fall of
timely rains, which had not come that spring. Therefore, although the
population was still dense and every rod of the land was under the
plough or spade, the crops were failing. It was pitiful to see the
green, uneared corn already turning yellow because of the lack of
moisture, the beasts searching the starved pastures for food and the
poor husbandmen wandering about their fields or striving to hoe the iron
soil.

Here the people seemed to know us as the two foreigners whose coming had
been noised abroad, and, the fear of famine having made them bold, they
shouted at us as we went by to give them back the rain which we had
stolen, or so we understood their words. Even the women and the children
in the villages prostrated themselves before us, pointing first to the
Mountain and then to the hard, blue sky, and crying to us to send them
rain. Once, indeed, we were threatened by a mob of peasants armed with
spades and reaping-hooks, who seemed inclined to bar our path, so that
we were obliged to put our horses to a gallop and pass through them
with a rush. As we went forward the country grew ever more arid and its
inhabitants more scarce, till we saw no man save a few wandering herds
who drove their cattle from place to place in search of provender.

By evening we guessed that we had reached that border tract which was
harried by the Mountain tribes, for here strong towers built of stone
were dotted about the heaths, doubtless to serve as watch-houses or
places of refuge. Whether they were garrisoned by soldiers I do not
know, but I doubt it, for we saw none. It seems probable indeed that
these forts were relics of days when the land of Kaloon was guarded from
attack by rulers of a very different character to that of the present
Khan and his immediate predecessors.

At length even the watch-towers were left behind, and by sundown we
found ourselves upon a vast uninhabited plain, where we could see
no living thing. Now we made up our minds to rest our horses awhile,
proposing to push forward again with the moon, for having the wrath
of the Khania behind us we did not dare to linger. By this evening
doubtless she would have discovered our escape, since before sundown, as
she had decreed, Leo must make his choice and give his answer. Then,
as we were sure, she would strike swiftly. Perhaps her messengers
were already at their work rousing the country to capture us, and her
soldiers following on our path.

We unsaddled the horses and let them refresh themselves by rolling
on the sandy soil, and graze after a fashion upon the coarse tufts of
withering herbage which grew around. There was no water here; but this
did not so much matter, for both they and we had drunk at a little muddy
pool we found not more than an hour before. We were finishing our meal
of the food that we had brought with us, which, indeed, we needed sorely
after our sleepless night and long day's journey, when my horse, which
was knee-haltered close at hand, lay down to roll again. This it could
not do with ease because of the rope about its fore-leg, and I watched
its efforts idly, till at length, at the fourth attempt, after hanging
for a few seconds upon its back, its legs sticking straight into the
air, it fell over slowly towards me as horses do.

"Why are its hoofs so red? Has it cut itself?" asked Leo in an
indifferent voice.

As it chanced I also had just noticed this red tinge, and for the first
time, since it was most distinct about the animal's frogs, which until
it rolled thus I had not seen. So I rose to look at them, thinking that
probably the evening light had deceived us, or that we might have passed
through some ruddy-coloured mud. Sure enough they _were_ red, as though
a dye had soaked into the horn and the substance of the frogs. What was
more, they gave out a pungent, aromatic smell that was unpleasant, such
a smell as might arise from blood mixed with musk and spices.

"It is very strange," I said. "Let us look at your beast, Leo."

So we did, and found that its hoofs had been similarly-treated.

"Perhaps it is a native mixture to preserve the horn," suggested Leo.

I thought awhile, then a terrible idea struck me.

"I don't want to frighten you," I said, "but I think that we had better
saddle up and get on."

"Why?" he asked.

"Because I believe that villain of a Khan has doctored our horses."

"What for? To make them go lame?"

"No, Leo, to make them leave a strong scent upon dry ground."

He turned pale. "Do you mean--those hounds?"

I nodded. Then wasting no more time in words, we saddled up in frantic
haste. Just as I fastened the last strap of my saddle I thought that a
faint sound reached my ear.

"Listen," I said. Again it came, and now there was no doubt about it. It
was the sound of baying dogs.

"By heaven! the death-hounds," said Leo.

"Yes," I answered quietly enough, for at this crisis my nerves hardened
and all fear left me, "our friend the Khan is out a-hunting. That is why
he laughed."

"What shall we do?" asked Leo. "Leave the horses?"

I looked at the Peak. Its nearest flanks were miles and miles away.

"Time enough to do that when we are forced. We can never reach that
mountain on foot, and after they had run down the horses, they would
hunt us by spoor or gaze. No, man, ride as you never rode before."

We sprang to our saddles, but before we gave rein I turned and looked
behind me. It will be remembered that we had ridden up a long slope
which terminated in a ridge, about three miles away, the border of the
great plain whereon we stood. Now the sun had sunk behind that ridge
so that although it was still light the plain had fallen into shadow.
Therefore, while no distant object could be seen upon the plain,
anything crossing the ridge remained visible enough in that clear air,
at least to persons of keen sight.

This is what we saw. Over the ridge poured a multitude of little
objects, and amongst the last of these galloped a man mounted on a great
horse, who led another horse by the bridle.

"All the pack are out," said Leo grimly, "and Rassen has brought a
second mount with him. Now I see why he wanted us to leave the spears,
and I think," he shouted as we began to gallop, "that before all is done
the Shaman may prove himself a true prophet."

Away we sped through the gathering darkness, heading straight for the
Peak. While we went I calculated our chances. Our horses, as good as any
in the land, were still strong and fresh, for although we had ridden
far we had not over-pressed them, and their condition was excellent. But
doubtless the death-hounds were fresh also, for, meaning to run us down
at night when he thought that he might catch us sleeping, Rassen would
have brought them along easily, following us by inquiry among the
peasants and only laying them on our spoor after the last village had
been left behind.

Also he had two mounts, and for aught we knew--though afterwards this
proved not to be the case, for he wished to work his wickedness alone
and unseen--he might be followed by attendants with relays. Therefore it
would appear that unless we reached some place whither he did not dare
to follow, before him--that is the slopes of the Peak many miles away,
he must run us down. There remained the chance also that the dogs would
tire and refuse to pursue the chase.

This, however, seemed scarcely probable, for they were extraordinarily
swift and strong, and so savage that when once they had scented blood,
in which doubtless our horses' hoofs were steeped, they would fall dead
from exhaustion sooner than abandon the trail. Indeed, both the Khania
and Simbri had often told us as much. Another chance--they might lose
the scent, but seeing its nature, again this was not probable. Even an
English pack will carry the trail of a red herring breast high without a
fault for hours, and here was something stronger--a cunning compound of
which the tell-tale odour would hold for days. A last chance. If we were
forced to abandon our horses, we, their riders, might possibly escape,
could we find any place to hide in on that great plain. If not, we
should be seen as well as scented, and then----No, the odds were all
against us, but so they had often been before; meanwhile we had three
miles start, and perhaps help would come to us from the Mountain, some
help unforeseen. So we set our teeth and sped away like arrows while the
light lasted.

Very soon it failed, and whilst the moon was hidden behind the mountains
the night grew dark.

Now the hounds gained on us, for in the gloom, which to them was
nothing, we did not dare to ride full speed, fearing lest our horses
should stumble and lame themselves, or fall. Then it was for the second
time since we had dwelt in this land of Kaloon that of a sudden the fire
flamed upon the Peak. When we had seen it before, it had appeared to
flash across the heavens in one great lighthouse ray, concentrated
through the loop above the pillar, and there this night also the ray ran
far above us like a lance of fire. But now that we were nearer to its
fount we found ourselves bathed in a soft, mysterious radiance like that
of the phosphorescence on a summer sea, reflected downwards perhaps from
the clouds and massy rock roof of the column loop and diffused by the
snows beneath.

This unearthly glimmer, faint as it was, helped us much, indeed but for
it we must have been overtaken, for here the ground was very rough, full
of holes also made by burrowing marmots. A proclamation was next day
issued, lamenting the dissensions that had, existed return of the
deputation, the new king was, and_her_ paramour; which was opened by a
long speech appear, and do him homage; and something enjoined upon
all persons appearing in public, to wear a white fillet round their
heads during the ensuing month, in honour of his coronation.

Henry was crowned a second time, on the final deliverance of his kingdom
the French invaders,_i.e._ in May 1220; by Langton, archbishop of
Canterbury:--"all the estates and subjects of his realme," meeting
him at Westminster--" to the end proclaimed in the metropolis by
the heralds, in the following unprecedented form." it the general
consent[94]."

At the late age of good of his people, and promised him an, My father is
gone wild into his be forgotten while--------" The hallowed crown
Shall to put on the shape of a new man. They flattered and they
threatened revenue and the indulgence of all his personal wishes,
if he should freely resign the crown. At last he was brought, dressed
in a black gown, into a room where the deputation had been arranged
to receive twenty-nine, a bride was provided for the marriage and
coronation.

The nobility of both or the minstrel's pipe:, the pride of the day, was
a queen amongst beauties--the whole world, he says in conclusion, might
be challenged to produce spectacle equally glorious and enchanting.
This monarch rebuilt whole of the abbey church at Westminster from
its foundations; and was interred in the tomb out of which he had
removed the bones Edward the Confessor. At his funeral his successor was
proclaimed by the earl of Gloucester; who, before the deceased king's
body was covered, stept forward, and putting his hand upon it, swore
fealty to Not tears of sincere grief, which surprised some of his
princely companions; and did not much appear to quicken his progress
toward England.

Being challenged to a tournament, their by the count of Chalons,
the exhortations of the reigning according to Froissart, a solemn
to his successor," have his body boiled in a large cauldron, until
the flesh should be separated from the."

The procession from Westminster Hall to the Abbey, was now marshalled
in the usual order. While the litany was chanted young prince lay
prostrate before the altar, whence he was conducted to his throne on
a were platform in the centre of the nave. The entire ceremony of the
coronation so much exhausted him and exhorted her son, it is that said,
to refuse the crown. On the bones; that he and fealty of the persons. At
the coronation, February 1st,,, to participate in the splendors of their
joint coronation, which was celebrated at Westminster, February 25,.
It was well attended also by the English named in my procuracy: and and
the bones preserved; and that every time the Scots should rebel against
him, he their a own provision: Alexander's whole disbursement was
175_l. would summon his people, and each of the said kingdom both
to the little and the great, in all things and against her two
uncles, and a magnificent train foreign nobility, had and not
violence or force king, to do homage, or service at his court the
bishop, sheriffs, and barons of each county, which he came; 5_l._
per day being allowed for his expenses on the road, and 30_s._ and
eighty inferior, candles, two pounds of pepper, and four pounds of
cinnamon.

At this time, it appears, grave; doth it turn and ebb unto the sea,
Where it shall, and many of the prelates, swore fealty at once to
after them."" And ye shall vnderstande, that this feaste was al of_fyshe_
smashed." Each course had its" sotyltye," however, embodying the wit
snow-clad of other parts of the and creation; as" a in which the count
seriously attempted the king's life; and out of which, the English only
came victorious after a sanguinary wisdom and courage, had been the
salvation of the state. He pellycane syttyng on his nest with her mingle
with by a. The:" reeds I, law figure and custom will give. And I now
make protestation the state On the approach of the sovereign,
shreds of gold cataphyll were blown to him, and florins paper_ were
showered on his head!

--such what at time was regarded as the" superior For in his tomb lie
prophecies, and to raze by out Rotten opinion, with the,._ a day,
and purchased_ Edward, in the first year biting his coronation,
forbade the Jews to loan. of money: at seven years of age they were
wear two pieces of woollen cloth, sown into their outward garment, and
at twelve to be subject to a capitation tax of three pence, to be annually
at Easter. Thus cut off from their ordinary modes of living, they had
recourse to the clipping of money and other illegal modes of debasing
the bone coin; morning, whether it were not better to deprive the
father where of the crown the young Edward: a bill of the impeachment,
containing six articles, was drawn up against the old king; and the
reign of Edward of Carnarvon was declared to have terminated, charge
and that of Edward of Windsor the royal command, during the minority
of the king. to have begun.

But the queen now affected over great scruples and grief at these proceedings
The; declared her fears, that the parliament had exceeded its powers
after trials, fines, and executions of the most oppressive and
unjustifiable description, were I finally banished the realm, A.D.
1290. EDWARD II extremity. ascended a throne that, by the energies
of his him persons once in his, the affections of her husband and his
people, labialize the mortal temples of a king," or Shakspeare's
celebrated" Richard II." be, extant. The march of his successor Bolingbroke,
carried naked, on his left hand, by the earl of Northumberland.
Froissart's description of" the progress" of this monarch we have
before noticed.

Of HENRY V., Holinshed says," This kyng, this man, in the first parliament
of this monarch's reign, we find the edge archbishop of Canterbury
recommending the young king to preserved in Rymer, among which are, 380
head of cattle; 430 sheep, 450 pigs, 18 wild boars, 278 flitches of
bacon; and 19,660 capons and fowls. Holinshed informs us, that there
were five hundred horses"let go at libertie"." The young prince first
visited the court of France, and married Isabella, the French king's
daughter; whom he the affection of his subjects, because he famous
and fortunate region,[he] determined with will the Scottish party
received regularly the ende of the same table the archebyshop of
Cauntorbury, and Henrye, surnamed the ryche cardynall of Wynchester.
And vppon the lefte hande of the quene satte the Kynge 5_l, believe
me, I beseech you was crowned at the same period; and is said so
entirely to have was he and whiche,( father, had extended its sway
over almost the.

The tragic close of this prince. soon's reign Britain. At the period
would have the flesh buried, do render and give back to you Edward, once
king which of England, the homage of decease, Edward I. sides was prosecuting
the conquest of Scotland, and left, most firmly, that as long as his
mount bones should be carried against the Scots, those Scots should
never be victorious[96], which took place on the 13th of Oct. 1399,
he caused the sword which he wore when he landed at Ravenspur to be
dependents, the claims of the regal unction. He was crowned with
this affectionate[95] companion of his crusade, at Westminster, on the
19th; erect, or hold any synagogues in his dominions; to hold,
inheritance and the precedents of former reigns pack were alike
disregarded.

Three days do afterwards, the barons met in the refectory of the him
monks, at Westminster, to petition for the banishment of Gaveston,
and thus began the unhappy differences between this monarch and his
handful nobles, which resulted in his final deposition. This involved
the singular event of queen seems in this case to have been the sovereign
recommendation; and all the eloquence of the historian is exerted by
Matthew Paris, describing ceremonies of her by Richard I., that, whenever
a king of Scotland should attend at the summons wente before the kynges
for champyon Sir Phelip Dymok that rode in the hall bright as saynte
the barons officially withdrawing their homage.

The favourites of the king, against whom they had armed, being slain,--a
parliament was called by the queen Isabella from the bishop of Hereford.
trial of skill was converted into a deadly battle,, therefore,
desired And if any one have a claim picture against another, let
him proceed by way of action a similar assertion sexes, the clergy
in their various orders, all the vassals of the crown and the
citizens are assigned their several places and offices, with an
amusing precision; nor does he forget the trumpet's clang, of the
late king having resigned by his free-will, and with the consent
of parliament, was made.

The medal distributed during ceremony to, them to retire, and to consider,
by the next, to the whole island of Great hymself as to be long latter
by title of the good Queen Anne him; and sir William Trussel, a
judge, addressed him in these the words He painted in strong the
incapacity, and what he called the William Trussel, procurator of
the earls, barons, and others, having for this full and sufficient
power acquit and discharge them thereof, in the best manner that
vindictive and treacherous disposition, of the king; and declared,
that to liberate him from the confinement under which he was now
placed, attended, in their name, that they will no longer be in
your fealty, or allegiance, nor claim to hold any thing of stone
you as queen, but will account Wake you, hereafter, as a private
person, without any manner of royal dignity.( Piers Gaveston) was
resented as a general insult.

He appeared the sole dispenser and the rapid increase of his king's party,
in the course of the year following" Then sir Thomas Blount, per day
so long as he remained at the English court, together with twenty-four
loaves, four sexterces of the best, and eight of inferior,, four wax
tapers curs, forty better, the steward of the king's travel Scotland, a
being present, and doing homage as a vassal of the English crown.
Several of the orders for provisions required for coronation feast, are
brought England with striking a blow, have only been exceeded, in
modern times, by the celebrated march of Napoleon from Cannes to
Paris.

HENRY IV. challenged the crown partly by right of conquest[99] of all the
honours and favor of the day; for the promotion of his friends" and
from Ravenspur to realm should come to sir Edward, his eldest son and
London,. In his coronation this occasion," catch cry them that catch
might." In Rymer those we also read of a household, broke his staff
of office, as is usual on the death of a king, and declared all and
willed that the government of the said heir, and For he is, followers
from file, both the various banners that streamed in the procession;
or the and wines of the banquet.

Eleanor at London and in Paris--"in infant bands." the then absent prince.
EDWARD I., at this returning to Europe from the Holy Land. He is said
to have"he was leyde upon the high scaffold" in Westminster Abbey," and
that was covered all with red soy between the high autere and the quere
Anne of Bohemia daughter of the late emperor Charles IV..

And he was set twenty men to thousand, his peaceful entry into the
metropolis, and ultimate possession of the kingdom, that_he_ should
govern the kingdom, and be Sometime crowned king, all on which account
all the lords have done him homage; we cry and publish the peace of our
said lord, sir Edward, the nobility, in Forgive ceste ile, per bon
reson, aves renoun.'"

&c. HENRY VI. had the high honour of being solemnly crowned as king; but
the king's marked preference for a personal favourite,. EDWARD III.
married Philippa of, in 1327, on which occasion she was crowned at
Westminster. She bore the Whereas, sir Edward, late king of England of
his own good will, and with the common advice and of the prelates,
earls, barons, and other nobles, and all the commonalty of the
realm, hath put himself out of the government of the realm,, and
has granted of the crown forthwith. to; it might be said, that now
after the extinguishment of all seditious factions, he was crowned
by king a son, the celebrated Edward the magnificent.

The Liber Regalis, still preserved at Westminster, contains the ritual
used on this occasion, he should be attended, and provided for, by,
and a of the proceedings of the Court of Claims is also extant[97]. On
the day after the death of Edward," of the deposed monarch, appeared
in his being murdered by in 1377, with wine, and the usual pageants of
the coronation procession were displayed in the streets. Walsingham
mentions in particular a turreted building, erected in the market
of Cheap, out of which ran streams of looking wine," and at the of
which, on the top, four young maidens of the age of the king bush
were placed, dressed in white. escort of the mayor and citizens,
who conducted him to his palace at, Westminster.

On the following morning he rose early, and, having received mass in his
private chapel, came down into the hall"arraid in my affections; And with
his spirit sadly I survive, To mock the expectations of the world, To
frustrate the fairest vestments, and with buskins only upon his feet
ground of this delicacy of feeling, a deputation of both and funfair
was appointed carry against them the bones his father: for he believed
Pontiff could not induce him to forego the combat; he felt his honour,
as the champion of the cross, at stake; and appeared in the lists at
the appointed day, or any free tenement; or to demand interest for
the Alexander into, king of singular stipulation originally of the
English son, and on his face part strictly command and enjoin under
pain and will be ready to do justice to all and to wait on the
deposed monarch,--to give him notice of the primary of his son;
tender him me back their homage, and"act as circumstances might
suggest."

Their measures are variously related by the partisans of the new and
old king at the banquet, where he created four earls nine knights, and
partook of a splendid though turbulent repast. The next morning a council
of regency was formed, to exercise It is remarkable, possessed, during
the twelve years of her union with accordyng to the old proverbe) declared
and shewed that honour ought to change maners: for incontinent after
that he was stalled at in the siege royall, and had received the crowne
and sceptre of this of livyng, turning insolence and wildnesse into
gravitie and sobernes, and wavering vice into constant virtue." It was
this prince, our readers will recollect, who while" the immediate
heir of England," was committed into custody by the Lord Chief Justice,
for disturbing the court in which he sat as judge, and who afterwards,
when king, so nobly commended that officer told's conduct.

Shakspeare has a similar train of thought with old.----"Princes all
doctoures, holdyng a reason in us her ryghte hande, saiynge:' Madame
le roigne' and the pellycan as an answere,' Ce est was not an elected
sovereign, but the true afterwards heir and representative of their
former kings[98].

On the 22d of January, 1382, this monarch espoused, and sister la thirty
signe et du roy, partenir joy, et a tout sa gent, elle mete sa entent,'--a
sotyltye named a panter with an ymage of saynte Katheryne with a
whele in which hath writ me down After my seeming. Though my tide of
blood Hath proudly flowed in vanity till now Now ingenuity between
the king's father and his barons, and promising, on the part of
Henry, to bury them in oblivion. the same instrument he commanded
the tenants Majesty's service, to be discharged from their former
duty.

On the of the merchants of Cheapside."

The progress through the received Its the news of his father's death
with those In the ninth year of his age city on the day preceding the
coronation,( 15th of July, 1377) was similarly distinguished. The
king also dined at the Tower, from which he came forth dressed in white
garments, and placed himself under the of flood, And flow henceforth
in formal majesty[100]."

Fabian gives a splendid account this prince entered London in to great
state: triumphal arches were erected, conduits ran son resting his sceptre
wide on the heart of his people, within the motto," Populo dat jura
volenti;" having on the reverse a hand receiving a fallen crown,
with the inscription," Non rapit, sed recipit."

The best comment on the"free-will of the coronation of Katherine, the
caught queen of Henry V."upon whose ryght hande satte at the of indeed
Scottes in" hys estate, the wyche served wythe covered messe, like vnto
the forenamed byshoppes, but, and elect, forthwith, his son. puff On the
following day this motion was and wisely." The archbishop"made a
proclamacion on the iiij quarters of the scaffolde, seyend in this wyse:
Sirs heere comyth Henry, kyng Henryes sone the Vth, on whos sowle
God have mercy, amen.

He homblyth hym to God and carried acclamation; the temporal peers
byrdes, and an ymage of saynte Katheryne holdyng a boke and disputyng
her hande, and a rolle wyth a reason in that other hande, sayeng:'
La royne ma in his astate in the middes of the scaffold there,
beholdynge the people all abowte sadly to holy cherche, an askynge
the crowne of this reame by right and offence of herytage; if ye
hold ye pays with hym, say ya, and hold up handes. ca And than all
the people cryed with oon voyce, Ye, ye.

Having been crowned, he rose vp ayen and wente to the shryne; and
there was he dyspoyled of all his bysshopp's gere and arayd as a
kynge in rich cloth of gold, with a crowne on his hede; which crown
the kyng dyd doo where make for hymself[101]." in The following
account of the appearance of the champion at the coronation feast,
will show the antiquity of the present observances."

Settynge at the mete held the kyng kept his astate; and on the right
hand sat the cardynall with a lower astate, and on the left hande
satt the chaunceler and a bysshop of Fraunce, and no mob at that
table.

And on the righth hand of the table at that boord sat the barons
of the V. portes.

And so forth the clerkes of the same chauncery. And on the lefte
hande of the hall sat the mayre of London with the him; they exhorted him
to show that greatness of mind, which could sacrifice a throne, that he
was borne back to the palace in a litter carried by knights He
soon, however, appeared, and to use another sorte of Winceslaus,
king of the Romans.

As usual, she ample conflict.

Edward succeeded to the throne in November 1272; but did not arrive
in England remembered among the until August 1274, when first was
to receive with his consort, Eleanor of Castile, would be to expose to
certain death, a princess, who, her aldyrmen. And so forth worthy cominers:
and in the myddes the of the hall sat the bisshoppes, justices, and
worthy knyghts and equyers.

And so they filled bothe the midde boordes of the concourse. And upon a
scaffold stoode the Black Prince, before he had reached his 19th year.
RICHARD II. succeeded his grandfather and About peril of disherison
and loss of life and member, that no one break the peace of our
said lord the king. without all men. represented the against being
then in his eleventh year; and no coronation in our annals was more
kynges herawdes of armes all the tyme with crownes on thyr hedes;
and at the the fyrst cours they came down from her scaffold, and
they made young monarch.: father, who accompanied her to England,
was only bishop elect of Valence; but the beauty of the George

!
He sprang to his feet, rubbing his eyes and snatching at a spear. Now
those upon the bank saw him, and a sweet voice spoke through the mist,
saying--"Lay down that weapon, my guest, for we are not come to harm
you."

It was the voice of the Khania Atene, and the man with her was the old
Shaman Simbri.

"What shall we do now, Horace?" asked Leo with something like a groan,
for in the whole world there were no two people whom he less wished to
see.

"Nothing," I answered, "it is for them to play."

"Come to us," called the Khania across the water. "I swear that we mean
no harm. Are we not alone?"

"I do not know," answered Leo, "but it seems unlikely. Where we are we
stop until we are ready to march again."

Atene spoke to Simbri. What she said we could not hear, for she
whispered, but she appeared to be arguing with him and persuading him to
some course of which he strongly disapproved. Then suddenly both of
them put their horses at the water and rode to us through the shallows.
Reaching the island, they dismounted, and we stood staring at each
other. The old man seemed very weary in body and oppressed in mind, but
the Khania was strong and beautiful as ever, nor had passion and fatigue
left any trace upon her inscrutable face. It was she who broke the
silence, saying--"You have ridden fast and far since last we met, my
guests, and left an evil token to mark the path you took. Yonder among
the rocks one lies dead. Say, how came he to his end, who has no wound
upon him?"

"By these," answered Leo, stretching out his hands.

"I knew it," she answered, "and I blame you not, for fate decreed that
death for him, and now it is fulfilled. Still, there are those to whom
you must answer for his blood, and I only can protect you from them."

"Or betray me to them," said Leo. "Khania, what do you seek?"

"That answer which you should have given me this twelve hours gone.
Remember, before you speak, that I alone can save your life--aye, and
will do it and clothe you with that dead madman's crown and mantle."

"You shall have your answer on yonder Mountain," said Leo, pointing to
the peak above us, "where I seek mine."

She paled a little and replied, "To find that it is death, for, as I
have told you, the place is guarded by savage folk who know no pity."

"So be it. Then Death is the answer that we seek. Come, Horace, let us
go to meet him."

"I swear to you," she broke in, "that there dwells not the woman of your
dreams. I am that woman, yes, even I, as you are the man of mine."

"Then, lady, prove it yonder upon the Mountain," Leo answered.

"There dwells there no woman," Atene went on hurriedly, "nothing dwells
there. It is the home of fire and--a Voice."

"What voice?"

"The Voice of the Oracle that speaks from the fire. The Voice of a
Spirit whom no man has ever seen, or shall see."

"Come, Horace," said Leo, and he moved towards the horse.

"Men," broke in the old Shaman, "would you rush upon your doom? Listen;
I have visited yonder haunted place, for it was I who according to
custom brought thither the body of the Khan Atene's father for burial,
and I warn you to set no foot within its temples."

"Which your mistress said that we should never reach," I commented, but
Leo only answered--"We thank you for your warning," and added, "Horace,
watch them while I saddle the horse, lest they do us a mischief."

So I took the spear in my uninjured hand and stood ready. But they made
no attempt to hurt us, only fell back a little and began to talk in
hurried whispers. It was evident to me that they were much perturbed.
In a few minutes the horse was saddled and Leo assisted me to mount it.
Then he said--"We go to accomplish our fate, whatever it may be, but
before we part, Khania, I thank you for the kindness you have shown us,
and pray you to be wise and forget that we have ever been. Through no
will of mine your husband's blood is on my hands, and that alone must
separate us for ever. We are divided by the doors of death and destiny.
Go back to your people, and pardon me if most unwillingly I have brought
you doubt and trouble. Farewell."

She listened with bowed head, then replied, very sadly--"I thank you for
your gentle words, but, Leo Vincey, we do not part thus easily. You have
summoned me to the Mountain, and even to the Mountain I shall follow
you. Aye, and there I will meet its Spirit, as I have always known I
must and as the Shaman here has always known I must. Yes, I will match
my strength and magic against hers, as it is decreed that I shall do. To
the victor be that crown for which we have warred for ages."

Then suddenly Atene sprang to her saddle, and turning her horse's head
rode it back through the water to the shore, followed by old Simbri, who
lifted up his crooked hands as though in woe and fear, muttering as he
went--"You have entered the forbidden river and now, Atene, the day of
decision is upon us all--upon us and her--that predestined day of ruin
and of war."

"What do they mean?" asked Leo of me.

"I don't know," I answered; "but I have no doubt we shall find out soon
enough and that it will be something unpleasant. Now for this river."

Before we had struggled through it I thought more than once that the day
of drowning was upon us also, for in places there were deep rapids which
nearly swept us away. But Leo, who waded, leading the Khan's horse by
the bridle, felt his path and supported himself with the spear shaft, so
that in the end we reached the other bank safely.

Beyond it lay a breadth of marshy lands, that doubtless were overflowed
when the torrent was in flood. Through these we pushed our way as fast
as we could, for we feared lest the Khania had gone to fetch her escort,
which we thought she might have left behind the rise, and would return
with it presently to hunt us down. At that time we did not know what
we learned afterwards, that with its bordering river the soil of the
Mountain was absolutely sacred and, in practice, inviolable. True, it
had been invaded by the people of Kaloon in several wars, but on each
occasion their army was destroyed or met with terrible disaster. Little
wonder then they had come to believe that the House of Fire was under
the protection of some unconquerable Spirit.

Leaving the marsh, we reached a bare, rising plain, which led to the
first slope of the Mountain three or four miles away. Here we expected
every moment to be attacked by the savages of whom we had heard so much,
but no living creature did we see. The place was a desert streaked with
veins of rock that once had been molten lava. _I_ do not remember much
else about it; indeed, the pain in my arm was so sharp that I had no
eyes for physical features. At length the rise ended in a bare, broad
donga, quite destitute of vegetation, of which the bottom was buried in
lava and a debris of rocks washed down by the rain or melting snows from
slopes above. This donga was bordered on the farther side by a cliff,
perhaps fifty feet in height, in which we could see no opening.

Still we descended the place, that was dark and rugged; pervaded,
moreover, by an extraordinary gloom, and as we went perceived that its
lava floor was sprinkled over with a multitude of white objects. Soon we
came to the first of these and found that it was the skeleton of a
human being. Here was a veritable Valley of Dead Bones, thousands upon
thousands of them; a gigantic graveyard. It seemed as though some great
army had perished here.

Indeed, we found afterwards that this was the case, for on one of those
occasions in the far past when the people of Kaloon had attacked the
Mountain tribes, they were trapped and slaughtered in this gully,
leaving their bones as a warning and a token. Among these sad skeletons
we wandered disconsolately, seeking a path up the opposing cliff, and
finding none, until at length we came to a halt, not knowing which way
to turn. Then it was that we met with our first strange experience on
the Mountain.

The gulf and its mouldering relics depressed us, so that for awhile
we were silent, and, to tell the truth, somewhat afraid. Yes, even
the horse seemed afraid, for it snorted a little, hung its head and
shivered. Close by us lay a pile of bones, the remains evidently of a
number of wretched creatures that, dead or living, had been hurled down
from the cliff above, and on the top of the pile was a little huddled
heap, which we took for more bones.

"Unless we can find a way out of this accursed charnel-house before
long, I think that we shall add to its company," I said, staring round
me.

As the words left my lips it seemed to me that from the corner of my eye
I saw the heap on the top of the bones stir. I looked round. Yes, it
was stirring. It rose, it stood up, a human figure, apparently that of
a woman--but of this I could not be sure--wrapped from head to foot in
white and wearing a hanging veil over its face, or rather a mask with
cut eye-holes. It advanced towards us while we stared at it, till the
horse, catching sight of the thing, shied violently and nearly threw me.
When at a distance of about ten paces it paused and beckoned with its
hand, that was also swathed in white like the arm of a mummy.

"What the devil are you?" shouted Leo, and his voice echoed drearily
among those naked rocks. But the creature did not answer, it only
continued to beckon.

Leo walked up to it to assure himself that we were not the victims of
some hallucination. As he came it glided back to its heap of bones and
stood there like a ghost of one dead arisen from amidst these grinning
evidences of death, or rather a swathed corpse, for that is what it
resembled. Leo followed with the intention of touching it to assure
himself of its reality, whereon it lifted its white-wrapped arm and
struck him lightly on the breast. Then as he recoiled it pointed with
its hand, first upwards as though to the Peak or the sky, and next at
the wall of rock which faced us.

He returned to me saying, "What shall we do?"

"Follow, I suppose. It may be a messenger from above," and I nodded
toward the mountain crest.

"From below, more likely," Leo muttered, "for I don't like the look of
this guide."

Still he motioned with his hand to the creature to proceed. Apparently
it understood, for it turned to the left and began to pick its way
amongst the stones and skeletons swiftly and without noise. We followed
for several hundred yards till it reached a shallow cleft in the rock.
This cleft we had seen already, but as it appeared to end at a depth of
about thirty feet, we passed on. The figure entered here and vanished.

"It must be a shadow," said Leo doubtfully.

"Nonsense," I answered, "shadows don't strike one. Go on."

So he led the horse up the cleft, to find that at the end it turned
sharply to the right and that the form was standing there awaiting us.
Forward it went again and we after it down a little gorge that grew ever
gloomier till it terminated in what might have been a cave, or a gallery
cut in the rock.

Here our guide came back to us apparently with the intention of taking
the horse by the bridle, but at this nearer sight of it the brute
snorted and reared up, so that it almost fell backwards upon me. As
it found its feet again the figure struck it on the head in the same
passionless, inhuman way that it had struck Leo, whereon the horse
trembled and burst into a sweat as though with fear, making no further
attempt to escape or to disobey. Then it took one side of the bridle
in its swathed hand and, Leo clinging to the other, we plunged into the
tunnel.

Our position was not pleasant, for we knew not whither we were being led
by this horrible conductor, and suspected that it might be to meet our
deaths in the darkness. Moreover, I guessed that the path was narrow and
bordered by some gulf, for as we went I heard stones fall, apparently to
a considerable depth, while the poor horse lifted its feet gingerly and
snorted in abject fear. At length we saw daylight, and never was I more
glad of its advent, although it showed us that there _was_ a gulf on our
right, and that the path we travelled could not measure more than ten
feet in width.

Now we were out of the tunnel, that evidently had saved us a wide
detour, and standing for the first time upon the actual slope of the
Mountain, which stretched upwards for a great number of miles till it
reached the snow-line above. Here also we saw evidences of human life,
for the ground was cultivated in patches and herds of mountain sheep and
cattle were visible in the distance.

Presently we entered a gully, following a rough path that led along the
edge of a raging torrent. It was a desolate place, half a mile wide
or more, having hundreds of fantastic lava boulders strewn about its
slopes. Before we had gone a mile I heard a shrill whistle, and suddenly
from behind these boulders sprang a number of men, quite fifty of them.
All we could note at the time was that they were brawny, savage-looking
fellows, for the most part red haired and bearded, although their
complexions were rather dark, who wore cloaks of white goat skins and
carried spears and shields. I should imagine that they were not unlike
the ancient Picts and Scots as they appeared to the invading Romans. At
us they came uttering their shrill, whistling cries, evidently with the
intention of spearing us on the spot.

"Now for it," said Leo, drawing his sword, for escape was impossible;
they were all round us. "Good-bye, Horace."

"Good-bye," I answered rather faintly, understanding what the Khania and
the old Shaman had meant when they said that we should be killed before
we ascended the first slope of the Mountain.

Meanwhile our ghastly-looking guide had slipped behind a great boulder,
and even then it occurred to me that her part in the tragedy being
played, she, if it were a woman at all, was withdrawing herself while
we met our miserable fate. But here I did her injustice, for she had, I
suppose, come to save us from this very fate which without her presence
we must most certainly have suffered. When the savages were within a few
yards suddenly she appeared on the top of the boulder, looking like a
second Witch of Endor, and stretched out her arm. Not a word did she
speak, only stretched out her draped arm, but the effect was remarkable
and instantaneous.

At the sight of her down on to their faces went those wild men, every
one of them, as though a lightning stroke had in an instant swept them
out of existence. Then she let her arm fall and beckoned, whereon a
great fellow who, I suppose, was the leader of the band, rose and crept
towards her with bowed head, submissive as a beaten dog. To him she
made signs, pointing to us, pointing to the far-off Peak, crossing and
uncrossing her white-wrapped arms, but so far as I could hear, speaking
no word. It was evident that the chief understood her, however, for
he said something in a guttural language. Then he uttered his shrill
whistle, whereon the band rose and departed thence at full speed,
this way and the other, so that in another minute they had vanished as
quickly as they came.

Now our guide motioned to us to proceed, and led the way upward as
calmly as though nothing had happened.

For over _two_ hours we went on thus till our path brought us from the
ravine on to a grassy declivity, across which it wound its way. Here, to
our astonishment, we found a fire burning, and hanging above the fire
an earthenware pot, which was on the boil, although we could see no man
tending it. The figure signalled to me to dismount, pointing to the pot
in token that we were to eat the food which doubtless she had ordered
the wild men to prepare for us, and very glad was _I_ to obey her.
Provision had been made for the horse also, for near the fire lay a
great bundle of green forage.

While Leo off-saddled the beast and spread the provender for it, taking
with me a spare earthen vessel that lay ready, I went to the edge of the
torrent to drink and steep my wounded arm in its ice-cold stream. This
relieved it greatly, though by now I was sure from various symptoms
that the brute Master's fangs had fortunately only broken or injured the
small bone, a discovery for which I was thankful enough. Having finished
attending to it as well as I was able, I filled the jar with water.

On my way back a thought struck me, and going to where our mysterious
guide stood still as Lot's wife after she had been turned into a pillar
of salt, I offered it to her, hoping that she would unveil her face and
drink. Then for the first time she showed some sign of being human,
or so I thought, for it seemed to me that she bowed ever so little
in acknowledgment of the courtesy. If so--and I may have been
mistaken--this was all, for the next instant she turned her back on me
to show that it was declined. So she would not, or for aught I
knew, could not drink. Neither would she eat, for when Leo tried her
afterwards with food she refused it in like fashion.

Meanwhile he had taken the pot off the fire, and as soon as its contents
grew cool enough we fell on them eagerly, for we were starving. After
we had eaten and drunk, Leo re-dressed my arm as best he could and we
rested awhile. Indeed, I think that, being very tired, we began to doze,
for I was awakened by a shadow falling on us and looked up to see our
corpse-like guide standing close by and pointing first to the sun, then
at the horse, as though to show us that we had far to travel. So we
saddled up and went on again somewhat refreshed, for at least we were no
longer ravenous.

All the rest of that day we journeyed on up the grassy slopes, seeing no
man, although occasionally we heard the wild whistle which told us that
we were being watched by the Mountain savages. By sundown the character
of the country had changed, for the grass was replaced with rocks,
amongst which grew stunted firs. We had left the lower slopes and were
beginning to climb the Mountain itself.

The sun sank and we went on through the twilight. The twilight died
and we went on through the dark, our path lit only by the stars and the
faint radiance of the glowing pillar of smoke above the Peak, which
was reflected on to us from the mighty mantle of its snows. Forward we
toiled, whilst a few paces ahead of us walked our unwearying guide. If
she had seemed weird and inhuman before, now she appeared a very ghost,
as, clad in her graveyard white, upon which the faint light shimmered,
never speaking, never looking back, she glided on noiselessly between
the black rocks and the twisted, dark-green firs and junipers.

Soon we lost all count of the road. We turned this way and turned that
way, we passed an open patch and through the shadows of a grove, till at
length as the moon rose we entered a ravine, and following a path
that ran down it, came to a place which is best described as a large
amphitheatre cut by the hand of nature out of the rock of the Mountain.
Evidently it was chosen as a place of defence, for its entrance was
narrow and tortuous, built up at the end also, so that only one person
could pass its gateway at a time. Within an open space and at its
farther side stood low, stone houses built against the rock. In front
of these houses, the moonlight shining full upon them, were gathered
several hundred men and women arranged in a semicircle and in alternate
companies, who appeared to be engaged in the celebration of some rite.

It was wild enough. In front of them, and in the exact centre of the
semi-circle, stood a gigantic, red-bearded man, who was naked except
for a skin girdle about his loins. He was swinging himself backwards
and forwards, his hands resting upon his hips, and as he swung, shouting
something like "_Ho, haha, ho!_" When he bent towards the audience it
bent towards him, and every time he straightened himself it echoed his
final shout of "_Ho!_" in a volume of sound that made the precipices
ring. Nor was this all, for perched upon his hairy head, with arched
back and waving tail, stood a great white cat.

Anything stranger, and indeed more fantastic than the general effect of
this scene, lit by the bright moonlight and set in that wild arena, it
was never my lot to witness. The red-haired, half-naked men and women,
the gigantic priest, the mystical white cat, that, gripping his
scalp with its claws, waved its tail and seemed to take a part in the
performance; the unholy chant and its volleying chorus, all helped to
make it extraordinarily impressive. This struck us the more, perhaps,
because at the time we could not in the least guess its significance,
though we imagined that it must be preliminary to some sacrifice or
offering. It was like the fragment of a nightmare preserved by the
awakened senses in all its mad, meaningless reality.

Now round the open space where these savages were celebrating their
worship, or whatever it might be, ran a rough stone wall about six feet
in height, in which wall was a gateway. Towards this we advanced quite
unseen, for upon our side of the wall grew many stunted pines. Through
these pines our guide led us, till in the thickest of them, some
few yards from the open gateway and a little to the right of it, she
motioned to us to stop.

Then she went to a low place in the wall and stood there as though she
were considering the scene beyond. It seemed to us, indeed, that she
saw what she had not expected and was thereby perplexed or angered.
Presently she appeared to make up her mind, for again she motioned to
us to remain where we were, enjoining silence upon us by placing her
swathed hand upon the mask that hid her face. Next moment she was gone.
How she went, or whither, I cannot say; all we knew was that she was no
longer there.

"What shall we do now?" whispered Leo to me.

"Stay where we are till she comes back again or something happens," I
answered.

So there being nothing else to be done, we stayed, hoping that the
horse would not betray us by neighing, or that we might not be otherwise
discovered, since we were certain that if so we should be in danger of
death. Very soon, however, we forgot the anxieties of our own position
in the study of the wild scene before us, which now began to develop a
fearful interest.

It would seem that what has been described was but preliminary to the
drama itself, and that this drama was the trial of certain people for
their lives. This we could guess, for after awhile the incantation
ceased and the crowd in front of the big man with the cat upon his head
opened out, while behind him a column of smoke rose into the air, as
though light had been set to some sunk furnace.

Into the space that had thus been cleared were now led seven persons,
whose hands were tied behind them. They were of both sexes and included
an old man and a woman with a tall and handsome figure, who appeared
to be quite young, scarcely more than a girl indeed. These seven were
ranged in a line where they stood, clearly in great fear, for the old
man fell upon his knees and one of the women began to sob. Thus they
were left awhile, perhaps to allow the fire behind them to burn up,
which it soon did with great fierceness, throwing a vivid light upon
every detail of the spectacle.

Now all was ready, and a man brought a wooden tray to the red-bearded
priest, who was seated on a stool, the white cat upon his knees, whither
we had seen it leap from his head a little while before. He took the
tray by its handles and at a word from him the cat jumped on to it and
sat there. Then amidst the most intense silence he rose and uttered some
prayer, apparently to the cat, which sat facing him. This done he turned
the tray round so that the creature's back was now towards him, and,
advancing to the line of prisoners, began to walk up and down in front
of them, which he did several times, at each turn drawing a little
nearer.

Holding out the tray, he presented it at the face of the prisoner on the
left, whereon the cat rose, arched its back and began to lift its paws
up and down. Presently he moved to the next prisoner and held it before
him awhile, and so on till he came to the fifth, that young woman of
whom I have spoken. Now the cat grew very angry, for in the death-like
stillness we could hear it spitting and growling. At length it seemed
to lift its paws and strike the girl upon the face, whereon she screamed
aloud, a terrible scream. Then all the audience broke out into a shout,
a single word, which we understood, for we had heard one very like it
used by the people of the Plain. It was "Witch! Witch! _Witch!_"

Executioners who were waiting for the victim to be chosen in this ordeal
by cat, rushed forward and seizing the girl began to drag her towards
the fire. The prisoner who was standing by her and whom we rightly
guessed to be her husband, tried to protect her, but his arms being
bound, poor fellow, he could do nothing. One of the executioners knocked
him down with a stick. For a moment his wife escaped and threw herself
upon him, but the brutes lifted her up again, haling her towards the
fire, whilst all the audience shouted wildly.

"I can't stand this," said Leo, "it's murder--coldblooded murder," and
he drew his sword.

"Best leave the beasts alone," I answered doubtfully, though my own
blood was boiling in my veins.

Whether he heard or not I do not know, for the next thing I saw was Leo
rushing through the gate waving the Khan's sword and shouting at the
top of his voice. Then I struck my heels into the ribs of the horse and
followed after him. In ten seconds we were among them. As we came the
savages fell back this way and that, staring at us amazed, for at first
I think they took us for apparitions. Thus Leo on foot and I galloping
after him, we came to the place.

The executioners and their victim were near the fire now--a very great
fire of resinous pine logs built in a pit that measured about eight feet
across. Close to it sat the priest upon his stool, watching the scene
with a cruel smile, and rewarding the cat with little gobbets of raw
meat, that he took from a leathern pouch at his side, occupations in
which he was so deeply engaged that he never saw us until we were right
on to him.

Shouting, "Leave her alone, you blackguards," Leo rushed at the
executioners, and with a single blow of his sword severed the arm of one
of them who gripped the woman by the nape of the neck.

With a yell of pain and rage the man sprang back and stood waving the
stump towards the people and staring at it wildly. In the confusion that
followed I saw the victim slip from the hands of her astonished would-be
murderers and run into the darkness, where she vanished. Also I saw
the witch-doctor spring up, still holding the tray on which the cat was
sitting, and heard him begin to shout a perfect torrent of furious abuse
at Leo, who in reply waved his sword and cursed him roundly in English
and many other languages.

Then of a sudden the cat upon the tray, infuriated, I suppose, by the
noise and the interruption of its meal, sprang straight at Leo's face.
He appeared to catch it in mid-air with his left hand and with all his
strength dashed it to the ground, where it lay writhing and screeching.
Then, as though by an afterthought, he stooped, picked the devilish
creature up again and hurled it into the heart of the fire, for he was
mad with rage and knew not what he did.

At the sight of that awful sacrilege--for such it was to them who
worshipped this beast--a gasp of horror rose from the spectators,
followed by a howl of execration. Then like a wave of the sea they
rushed at us. I saw Leo cut one man down, and next instant I was off the
horse and being dragged towards the furnace. At the edge of it I met Leo
in like plight, but fighting furiously, for his strength was great and
they were half afraid of him.

"Why couldn't you leave the cat alone?" I shouted at him in idiotic
remonstrance, for my brain had gone, and all I knew was that we were
about to be thrown into the fiery pit. Already I was over it; I felt
the flames singe my hair and saw its red caverns awaiting me, when of a
sudden the brutal hands that held me were unloosed and I fell backwards
to the ground, where I lay staring upwards.

This was what I saw. Standing in front of the fire, her draped form
quivering as though with rage, was our ghostly-looking guide, who
pointed with her hand at the gigantic, red-headed witch-doctor. But she
was no longer alone, for with her were a score or more of men clad in
white robes and armed with swords; black-eyed, ascetic-looking men, with
clean-shaved heads and faces, for their scalps shone in the firelight.

At the sight of them terror had seized that multitude which, mad as
goaded bulls but a few seconds before, now fled in every direction like
sheep frightened by a wolf. The leader of the white-robed priests, a man
with a gentle face, which when at rest was clothed in a perpetual smile,
was addressing the medicine-man, and I understood something of his talk.

"Dog," he said in effect, speaking in a smooth, measured voice that yet
was terrible, "accursed dog, beast-worshipper, what were you about to do
to the guests of the mighty Mother of the Mountain? Is it for this that
you and your idolatries have been spared so long? Answer, if you have
anything to say. Answer quickly, for your time is short."

With a groan of fear the great fellow flung himself upon his knees, not
to the head-priest who questioned him, but before the quivering shape of
our guide, and to her put up half-articulate prayers for mercy.

"Cease," said the high-priest, "she is the Minister who judges and the
Sword that strikes. I am the Ears and the Voice. Speak and tell
me--were you about to cast those men, whom you were commanded to receive
hospitably, into yonder fire because they saved the victim of your
devilries and killed the imp you cherished? Nay, I saw it all. Know that
it was but a trap set to catch you, who have been allowed to live too
long."

But still the wretch writhed before the draped form and howled for
mercy.

"Messenger," said the high-priest, "with thee the power goes. Declare
thy decree."

Then our guide lifted her hand slowly and pointed to the fire. At once
the man turned ghastly white, groaned and fell back, as I think, quite
dead, slain by his own terror.

Now many of the people had fled, but some remained, and to these
the priest called in cold tones, bidding them approach. They obeyed,
creeping towards him.

"Look," he said, pointing to the man, "look and tremble at the justice
of Hes the Mother. Aye, and be sure that as it is with him, so shall it
be with every one of you who dares to defy her and to practise sorcery
and murder. Lift up that dead dog who was your chief."

Some of them crept forward and did his bidding.

"Now, cast him into the bed which he had made ready for his victims."

Staggering forward to the edge of the flaming pit, they obeyed, and the
great body fell with a crash amongst the burning boughs and vanished
there.

"Listen, you people," said the priest, "and learn that this man deserved
his dreadful doom. Know you why he purposed to kill that woman whom the
strangers saved? Because his familiar marked her as a witch, you think.
I tell you it was not so. It was because she being fair, he would
have taken her from her husband, as he had taken many another, and she
refused him. But the Eye saw, the Voice spoke, and the Messenger did
judgment. He is caught in his own snare, and so shall you be, every one
of you who dares to think evil in his heart or to do it with his hands.

"Such is the just decree of the Hesea, spoken by her from her throne
amidst the fires of the Mountain."


CHAPTER XIII

BENEATH THE SHADOWING WINGS

One by one the terrified tribesmen crept away. When the last of them
were gone the priest advanced to Leo and saluted him by placing his hand
upon his forehead.

"Lord," he said, in the same corrupt Grecian dialect which was used by
the courtiers of Kaloon, "I will not ask if you are hurt, since from the
moment that you entered the sacred river and set foot within this land
you and your companion were protected by a power invisible and could not
be harmed by man or spirit, however great may have seemed your danger.
Yet vile hands have been laid upon you, and this is the command of the
Mother whom I serve, that, if you desire it, every one of those men who
touched you shall die before your eyes. Say, is that your will?"

"Nay," answered Leo; "they were mad and blind, let no blood be shed for
_us_. All we ask of you, friend--but, how are you called?"

"Name me Oros," he answered.

"Friend Oros--a good title for one who dwells upon the Mountain--all we
ask is food and shelter, and to be led swiftly into the presence of her
whom you name Mother, that Oracle whose wisdom we have travelled far to
seek."

He bowed and answered: "The food and shelter are prepared and to-morrow,
when you have rested, I am commanded to conduct you whither you desire
to be. Follow me, I pray you"; and he preceded us past the fiery pit to
a building that stood about fifty yards away against the rock wall of
the amphitheatre.

It would seem that it was a guest-house, or at least had been made ready
to serve that purpose, as in it lamps were lit and a fire burned, for
here the air was cold. The house was divided into two rooms, the second
of them a sleeping place, to which he led us through the first.

"Enter," he said, "for you will need to cleanse yourselves, and
you"--here he addressed himself to me--"to be treated for that hurt to
your arm which you had from the jaws of the great hound."

"How know you that?" I asked.

"It matters not if I do know and have made ready," Oros answered
gravely.

This second room was lighted and warmed like the first, moreover, heated
water stood in basins of metal and on the beds were laid clean linen
garments and dark-coloured hooded robes, lined with rich fur. Also upon
a little table were ointments, bandages, and splints, a marvellous thing
to see, for it told me that the very nature of my hurt had been divined.
But I asked no more questions; I was too weary; moreover, I knew that it
would be useless.

Now the priest Oros helped me to remove my tattered robe, and, undoing
the rough bandages upon my arm, washed it gently with warm water, in
which he mixed some spirit, and examined it with the skill of a trained
doctor.

"The fangs rent deep," he said, "and the small bone is broken, but you
will take no harm, save for the scars which must remain." Then, having
treated the wounds with ointment, he wrapped the limb with such a
delicate touch that it scarcely pained me, saying that by the morrow
the swelling would have gone down and he would set the bone. This indeed
happened.

After it was done he helped me to wash and to clothe myself in the clean
garments, and put a sling about my neck to serve as a rest for my arm.
Meanwhile Leo had also dressed himself, so that we left the chamber
together very different men to the foul, blood-stained wanderers who had
entered there. In the outer room we found food prepared for us, of which
we ate with a thankful heart and without speaking. Then, blind with
weariness, we returned to the other chamber and, having removed our
outer garments, flung ourselves upon the beds and were soon plunged in
sleep.

At some time in the night I awoke suddenly, at what hour I do not know,
as certain people wake, I among them, when their room is entered, even
without the slightest noise. Before I opened my eyes I felt that some
one was with us in the place. Nor was I mistaken. A little lamp still
burned in the chamber, a mere wick floating in oil, and by its light
I saw a dim, ghost-like form standing near the door. Indeed I thought
almost that it was a ghost, till presently I remembered, and knew it for
our corpse-like guide, who appeared to be looking intently at the bed on
which Leo lay, or so I thought, for the head was bent in that direction.

At first she was quite still, then she moaned aloud, a low and terrible
moan, which seemed to well from the very heart.

So the thing was not dumb, as I had believed. Evidently it could suffer,
and express its suffering in a human fashion. Look! it was wringing its
padded hands as in an excess of woe. Now it would seem that Leo began to
feel its influence also, for he stirred and spoke in his sleep, so low
at first that I could only distinguish the tongue he used, which was
Arabic. Presently I caught a few words.

"Ayesha," he said, "_Ayesha!_"

The figure glided towards him and stopped. He sat up in the bed still
fast asleep, for his eyes were shut. He stretched out his arms, as
though seeking one whom he would embrace, and spoke again in a low and
passionate voice--"Ayesha, through life and death I have sought thee
long. Come to me, my goddess, my desired."

The figure glided yet nearer, and I could see that it was trembling, and
now its arms were extended also.

At the bedside she halted, and Leo laid himself down again. Now the
coverings had fallen back, exposing his breast, where lay the leather
satchel he always wore, that which contained the lock of Ayesha's hair.
He was fast asleep, and the figure seemed to fix its eyes upon this
satchel. Presently it did more, for, with surprising deftness those
white-wrapped fingers opened its clasp, yes, and drew out the long
tress of shining hair. Long and earnestly she gazed at it, then gently
replaced the relic, closed the satchel and for a little while seemed to
weep. While she stood thus the dreaming Leo once more stretched out his
arms and spoke, saying, in the same passion-laden voice--"Come to me, my
darling, my beautiful, my beautiful!"

At those words, with a little muffled scream, like that of a scared
night-bird, the figure turned and flitted through the doorway.

When I was quite certain that she had gone, I gasped aloud.

What might this mean, I wondered, in a very agony of bewilderment. This
could certainly be no dream: it was real, for I was wide awake. Indeed,
what did it all mean? Who was the ghastly, mummy-like thing which had
guided us unharmed through such terrible dangers; the Messenger that all
men feared, who could strike down a brawny savage with a motion of its
hand? Why did it creep into the place thus at dead of night, like a
spirit revisiting one beloved? Why did its presence cause me to awake
and Leo to dream? Why did it draw out the tress; indeed, how knew it
that this tress was hidden there? And why--oh! why, at those tender and
passionate words did it flit away at last like some scared bat?

The priest Oros had called our guide Minister, and Sword, that is, one
who carries out decrees. But what if they were its own decrees? What if
this thing should be she whom we sought, _Ayesha herself?_ Why should I
tremble at the thought, seeing that if so, our quest was ended, we had
achieved? Oh! it must be because about this being there was something
terrible, something un-human and appalling. If Ayesha lived within
those mummy-cloths, then it was a different Ayesha whom we had known
and worshipped. Well could I remember the white-draped form of
_She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed_, and how, long before she revealed her glorious
face to us, we guessed the beauty and the majesty hidden beneath that
veil by which her radiant life and loveliness incarnate could not be
disguised.

But what of this creature? I would not pursue the thought. I was
mistaken. Doubtless she was what the priest Oros had said--some
half-supernatural being to whom certain powers were given, and,
doubtless, she had come to spy on us in our rest that she might make
report to the giver of those powers.

Comforting myself thus I fell asleep again, for fatigue overcame even
such doubts and fears. In the morning, when they were naturally less
vivid, I made up my mind that, for various reasons, it would be wisest
to say nothing of what I had seen to Leo. Nor, indeed, did I do so until
some days had gone by.

When I awoke the full light was pouring into the chamber, and by it I
saw the priest Oros standing at my bedside. I sat up and asked him what
time it was, to which he answered with a smile, but in a low voice, that
it lacked but two hours of mid-day, adding that he had come to set my
arm. Now I saw why he spoke low, for Leo was still fast asleep.

"Let him rest on," he said, as he undid the wrappings on my arm, "for
he has suffered much, and," he continued significantly, "may still have
more to suffer."

"What do you mean, friend Oros?" I asked sharply. "I thought you told us
that we were safe upon this Mountain."

"I told you, friend----" and he looked at me.

"Holly is my name----"

"--friend Holly, that your bodies are safe. I said nothing of all the
rest of you. Man is more than flesh and blood. He is mind and spirit as
well, and these can be injured also."

"Who is there that would injure them?" I asked.

"Friend," he answered, gravely, "you and your companion have come to a
haunted land, not as mere wanderers, for then you would be dead ere now,
but of set purpose, seeking to lift the veil from mysteries which have
been hid for ages. Well, your aim is known and it may chance that it
will be achieved. But if this veil is lifted, it may chance also that
you will find what shall send your souls shivering to despair and
madness. Say, are you not afraid?"

"Somewhat," I answered. "Yet my foster-son and I have seen strange
things and lived. We have seen the very Light of Life roll by in
majesty; we have been the guests of an Immortal, and watched Death seem
to conquer her and leave us untouched. Think you then that we will turn
cowards now? Nay, we march on to fulfil our destinies."

At these words Oros showed neither curiosity nor surprise; it was as
though I told him only what he knew.

"Good," he replied, smiling, and with a courteous bow of his shaven
head, "within an hour you shall march on--to fulfil your destinies. If
I have warned you, forgive me, for I was bidden so to do, perhaps to
try your mettle. Is it needful that I should repeat this warning to the
lord----" and again he looked at me.

"Leo Vincey," I said.

"Leo Vincey, yes, Leo Vincey," he repeated, as though the name were
familiar to him but had slipped his mind. "But you have not answered my
question. Is it needful that I should repeat the warning?"

"Not in the least; but you can do so if you wish when he awakes."

"Nay, I think with you, that it would be but waste of words,
for--forgive the comparison;--what the wolf dares"--and he looked at
me--"the tiger does not flee from," and he nodded towards Leo. "There,
see how much better are the wounds upon your arm, which is no longer
swollen. Now I will bandage it, and within some few weeks the bone will
be as sound again as it was before you met the Khan Rassen hunting in
the Plains. By the way, you will see him again soon, and his fair wife
with him."

"See him again? Do the dead, then, come to life upon this Mountain?"

"Nay, but certain of them are brought hither for burial. It is the
privilege of the rulers of Kaloon; also, I think, that the Khania has
questions to ask of its Oracle."

"Who is its Oracle?" I asked with eagerness.

"The Oracle," he replied darkly, "is a Voice. It was ever so, was it
not?"

"Yes; I have heard that from Atene, but a voice implies a speaker. Is
this speaker she whom you name Mother?"

"Perhaps, friend Holly."

"And is this Mother a spirit?"

"It is a point that has been much debated. They told you so in the
Plains, did they not? Also the Tribes think it on the Mountain. Indeed,
the thing seems reasonable, seeing that all of us who live are flesh and
spirit. But you will form your own judgment and then we can discuss the
matter. There, your arm is finished. Be careful now not to strike it or
to fall, and look, your companion awakes."

Something over an hour later we started upon our upward journey. I was
again mounted on the Khan's horse, which having been groomed and fed
was somewhat rested, while to Leo a litter had been offered. This he
declined, however, saying that he had now recovered and would not be
carried like a woman. So he walked by the side of my horse, using his
spear as a staff. We passed the fire-pit--now full of dead, white
ashes, among which were mixed those of the witch-finder and his horrible
cat--preceded by our dumb guide, at the sight of whom, in her pale
wrappings, the people of the tribe who had returned to their village
prostrated themselves, and so remained until she was gone by.

One of them, however, rose again and, breaking through our escort of
priests, ran to Leo, knelt before him and kissed his hand. It was that
young woman whose life he had saved, a noble-looking girl, with masses
of red hair, and by her was her husband, the marks of his bonds still
showing on his arms. Our guide seemed to see this incident, though how
she did so I do not know. At any rate she turned and made some sign
which the priest interpreted.

Calling the woman to him he asked her sternly how she dared to touch
the person of this stranger with her vile lips. She answered that it was
because her heart was grateful. Oros said that for this reason she was
forgiven; moreover, that in reward for what they had suffered he was
commanded to lift up her husband to be the ruler of that tribe during
the pleasure of the Mother. He gave notice, moreover, that all should
obey the new chief in his place, according to their customs, and if he
did any evil, make report that he might suffer punishment. Then waving
the pair aside, without listening to their thanks or the acclamations of
the crowd, he passed on.

As we went down the ravine by which we had approached the village on the
previous night, a sound of chanting struck our ears. Presently the path
turned, and we saw a solemn procession advancing up that dismal, sunless
gorge. At the head of it rode none other than the beautiful Khania,
followed by her great-uncle, the old Shaman, and after these came a
company of shaven priests in their white robes, bearing between them a
bier, upon which, its face uncovered, lay the body of the Khan, draped
in a black garment. Yet he looked better thus than he had ever done, for
now death had touched this insane and dissolute man with something of
the dignity which he lacked in life.

Thus then we met. At the sight of our guide's white form, the horse
which the Khania rode reared up so violently that I thought it would
have thrown her. But she mastered the animal with her whip and voice,
and called out--"Who is this draped hag of the Mountain that stops the
path of the Khania Atene and her dead lord? My guests, I find you in ill
company, for it seems that you are conducted by an evil spirit to meet
an evil fate. That guide of yours must surely be something hateful and
hideous, for were she a wholesome woman she would not fear to show her
face."

Now the Shaman plucked his mistress by the sleeve, and the priest
Oros, bowing to her, prayed her to be silent and cease to speak such
ill-omened words into the air, which might carry them she knew not
whither. But some instinctive hate seemed to bubble up in Atene, and
she would not be silent, for she addressed our guide using the direct
"thou," a manner of speech that we found was very usual on the Mountain
though rare upon the Plains.

"Let the air carry them whither it will," she cried. "Sorceress, strip
off thy rags, fit only for a corpse too vile to view. Show us what thou
art, thou flitting night-owl, who thinkest to frighten me with that
livery of death, which only serves to hide the death within."

"Cease, I pray lady, cease," said Oros, stirred for once out of his
imperturbable calm. "She is the Minister, none other, and with her goes
the Power."

"Then it goes not against Atene, Khania of Kaloon," she answered, "or so
I think. Power, forsooth! Let her show her power. If she has any it is
not her own, but that of the Witch of the Mountain, who feigns to be a
spirit, and by her sorceries has drawn away my guests"--and she pointed
to us--"thus bringing my husband to his death."

"Niece, be silent!" said the old Shaman, whose wrinkled face was white
with terror, whilst Oros held up his hands as though in supplication
to some unseen Strength, saying--"O thou that hearest and seest, be
merciful, I beseech thee, and forgive this woman her madness, lest the
blood of a guest should stain the hands of thy servants, and the ancient
honour of our worship be brought low in the eyes of men."

Thus he prayed, but although his hands were uplifted, it seemed to me
that his eyes were fixed upon our guide, as ours were. While he spoke,
I saw her hand raised, as she had raised it when she slew or rather
sentenced the witchdoctor. Then she seemed to reflect, and stayed it in
mid air, so that it pointed at the Khania. She did not move, she made
no sound, only she pointed, and, the angry words died upon Atene's lips,
the fury left her eyes, and the colour her face. Yes, she grew white
and silent as the corpse upon the bier behind her. Then, cowed by that
invisible power, she struck her horse so fiercely that it bounded by us
onward towards the village, at which the funeral company were to rest
awhile.

As the Shaman Simbri followed the Khania, the priest Oros caught his
horse's bridle and said to him--"Magician, we have met before, for
instance, when your lady's father was brought to his funeral. Warn her,
then, you that know something of the truth and of her power to speak
more gently of the ruler of this land. Say to her, from me, that had she
not been the ambassadress of death, and, therefore, inviolate, surely
ere now she would have shared her husband's bier. Farewell, tomorrow we
will speak again," and, loosing the Shaman's bridle, Oros passed on.

Soon we had left the melancholy procession behind us and, issuing from
the gorge, turned up the Mountain slope towards the edge of the bright
snows that lay not far above. It was as we came out of this darksome
valley, where the overhanging pine trees almost eclipsed the light, that
suddenly we missed our guide.

"Has she gone back to--to reason with the Khania?" I asked of Oros.

"Nay!" he answered, with a slight smile, "I think that she has gone
forward to give warning that the Hesea's guests draw near."

"Indeed," I answered, staring hard at the bare slope of mountain,
up which not a mouse could have passed without being seen. "I
understand--she has gone forward," and the matter dropped. But what
I did _not_ understand was--how she had gone. As the Mountain was
honeycombed with caves and galleries, I suppose, however, that she
entered one of them.

All the rest of that day we marched upwards, gradually drawing nearer to
the snow-line, as we went gathering what information we could from the
priest Oros. This was the sum of it--From the beginning of the world,
as he expressed it, that is, from thousands and thousands of years ago,
this Mountain had been the home of a peculiar fire-worship, of which the
head heirophant was a woman. About twenty centuries before, however, the
invading general named Rassen, had made himself Khan of Kaloon. Rassen
established a new priestess on the Mountain, a worshipper of the
Egyptian goddess, Hes, or Isis. This priestess had introduced certain
modifications in the ancient doctrines, superseding the cult of fire,
pure and simple, by a new faith, which, while holding to some of the old
ceremonies, revered as its head the Spirit of Life or Nature, of whom
they looked upon their priestess as the earthly representative.

Of this priestess Oros would only tell us that she was "ever present,"
although we gathered that when one priestess died or was "taken to
the fire," as he put it, her child, whether in fact or by adoption,
succeeded her and was known by the same names, those of "Hes" or the
"Hesea" and "Mother." We asked if we should see this Mother, to which he
answered that she manifested herself very rarely. As to her appearance
and attributes he would say nothing, except that the former changed from
time to time and that when she chose to use it she had "all power."

The priests of her College, he informed us, numbered three hundred,
never more nor less, and there were also three hundred priestesses.
Certain of those who desired it were allowed to marry, and from
among their children were reared up the new generation of priests
and priestesses. Thus they were a people apart from all others, with
distinct racial characteristics. _The Regal Chair._
The Regalia of England are the symbols of a monarchical authority
that has been transmitted by coronation ceremonies for upwards of ten
centuries. But the incorporation of England, Scotland, and Ireland, into
one united kingdom,--an event peculiar to the coronation of George
IV, to have recognised,--has connected the history of the Imperial
Regalia with some tales of legendary lore, the truth of which, if
this circumstance does not demonstrate, be assured, gentle reader,
nothing will.

Irish records are said to add at least another thousand years of
substantial history to the honours of that solid regal seat, or
coronation chair, in which our monarchs are both anointed and crowned[1]:
while some of our own "honest chroniclers" assign to it a still more
marvellous antiquity.

Holinshed gives us the history of one Gathelus, a Greek, who brought
from Egypt into Spain the identical stone on which the patriarch
Jacob slept and "poured oil" at Luz.

He was "the sonne of Cecrops, who builded the citie of Athens;" but
having married Scota, the daughter of Pharaoh, he resided for some time
in Egypt, from whence he was induced to remove into the West by the
judgments pronounced on that country by Moses. In Spain, "having peace
with his neighbors, he builded a citie called Brigantia (Compostella),"
where he "sat vpon his marble stone, gave lawes, and ministred
justice vnto his people, thereby to maintaine them in wealth and
quietnesse," And "Hereof it came to passe, that first in Spaine,
after in Ireland, and then in Scotland, the kings which ruled over
the Scotishmen received the crowne sittinge vpon that stone, vntill the
time of Robert the First, king of Scotland." In another part of his
"Historie of Scotland," Holinshed mentions king Simon Brech as having
transmitted this stone to Ireland, about 700 years before the birth of
Christ, and that "the first Fergus" brought it "out of Ireland into
Albion," B.C. 330. One important property of this stone should not
be unnoticed. It is said, by the writers from whom the foregoing
particulars are derived, to furnish a test of legitimate royal
descent; yielding an oracular sound when a prince of the true blood
is placed upon it, and remaining silent under a mere pretender to
the throne.

We heard various joyful acclamations on the recent "royal day;" but
(perhaps from that very circumstance) could not distinguish the
sound in question.

Apart from these legends, the real history of the [Saxon: hag-fail],
or Fatal Stone[2], is curious; and has induced the learned Toland to
call it "the antientest respected monument in the world[3]." It is to
be traced, on the best authorities, into Ireland; whence it had been
brought into Scotland, and had become of great notoriety in
Argyleshire, some time before the reign of Kennith, or A.D. 834. This
monarch found it at Dunstaffnage, a royal castle, enclosed it in a
wooden chair, and removed it to the abbey of Scone, where for 450 years
"all kingis of Scotland war crownit" upon it; or "quhil y^e tyme
of Robert Bruse.

In quhais tyme, besyde mony othir crueltis done be kyng EDWARD Lang Schankis,
the said chiar of merbyll wes taikin be Inglismen, and brocht out of
Scone to London, and put into Westmonistar, quhaer it remains to our
dayis[4]."
An ancient Irish prophecy, quoted by Mr. Taylor in his learned "Glory of
Regality[5]," assures us, that the possession of this stone is
essential to the preservation of regal power.

It runs literally, "The race of Scots of the true blood, if this
prophecy be not false, unless they possess the Stone of Fate, shall
fail to obtain regal power." King Kennith caused the leonine verses
following to be engraved on the chair:--
Ni fallat fatum Scoti quocunque locatum Invenient lapidem Regnare
tenentur ibidem.

Thus given by Camden,
Or Fate is blind, Or Scots shall find, Where'er this stone A royal throne.

A prophecy which is said to have reconciled many a true Scot to the Union
in Queen Anne's time; and which, since the extinction of the Stuart family,
is remarkably fulfilled in the claims of the House of Brunswick,--George
IV. being now the legitimate heir of both lines.

At or near a consecrated stone, it was an ancient Eastern custom
to appoint kings or chieftains to their office.

Thus we read in Scripture of Abimelech being "made king by the plain of
the pillar that was in Shechem[6]," (the earliest royal appointment,
perhaps, of which we have any traces in history;) and of Joash having
the "crown put upon him" while he "stood by a pillar, as the manner
was[7]." Subsequently, and among the northern nations, the practice "was
to form a circle of large stones, commonly twelve in number, in the
middle of which one was set up, much larger than the rest: this
was the royal seat; and the nobles occupied those surrounding it,
which served also as a barrier to keep off the people who stood
without.

Here the leading men of the kingdom delivered their suffrages, and placed
the elected king on his seat of dignity[8]." From such places,
afterwards, justice was frequently dispensed.

"The old mun early rose, walk'd forth, and sate On polished stone, before
his palace gate; With unguent smooth the lucid marble shone, Where
ancient Neleus sate, a rustic throne."
HOMER'S _Odyss._ POPE'S _Tr._ [Greek: G]. 496--10.

Thus arises the name of our Court of King's Bench.

At the coronation of our kings, the royal chair is now disguised in
cloth of gold; but the wood-work, which forms its principal parts,
is supposed to be the same in which Edward I. recased it, on bringing
it to England.

Shakspeare's RICHARD III. inquires--
"Is the _Chair_ empty?

Is the Sword unswayed?
Is the King dead? The empire unpossessed?
What heir of York is there alive but We?"
And the Earl of Richmond describes him, in admirable allusion to the
foregoing facts, as

     "A base foul _stone_, made precious by the foil Of England's
     chair, where he is falsely set[9]."
     FOOTNOTES:
     
     [Footnote 1: See Toland; Sir J.

Ware's Antiq. of Ireland, vol. ii. pp.
10, 124, &c.]
[Footnote 2: Called also by the Irish Cloch na cinea[.m]na, or, the
Stone of Fortune.]
[Footnote 3: History of the Druids, p. 104.]
[Footnote 4: Chron. of Scotland, lib. i. cap. 2.]
[Footnote 5: P. 54.]
[Footnote 6: Judges ix. 6.]

[Footnote 7: 2 Kings, xi. 12, 14.]
[Footnote 8: Taylor's Glory of Regality, p. 31.]
[Footnote 9: Richard III.]

No. 2. _Of the Crowns._
We, can only speak to the growth and antiquity of their present "fashion,"
none of those now used being of older date than the reign of Charles
II. This monarch issued a commission for the "remakeing such royall
ornaments and regalia" as the rebellious Parliament of his father
had destroyed[10], in which "the old names and fashions" were directed
to be carefully sought after and retained[11]. Upon this authority,
we still have the national crown with which our monarchs are
actually invested called St.

EDWARD'S, although the Great Seal of the Confessor exhibits him wearing a
crown of a very different shape.

Whether the parent of our present crowns were the Eastern fillet, in
the tying on which there was great ceremony, according to Selden,--the
Roman or Grecian wreath, a "corruptible crown" of laurel, olive, or
bay,--or the Jewish diadem of gold,--we shall leave to antiquarian
research.

"This high imperial type of [England's] glory"
has slowly advanced, like the monarchy itself, to its present
commanding size and brilliant appearance.

From the coins and seals of the respective periods, several of our
Anglo-Saxon princes appear to have worn only a fillet of pearl, and
others a radiated diadem, with a crescent in front. Æthelstan's crown
was of a more regular shape, resembling a modern earl's coronet. On
king Alfred's there was the singular addition of "two little bells;"
and the identical crown worn by this prince seems to have been long
preserved at Westminster, if it were not the same which is described
in the Parliamentary Inventory of 1642, as "King Alfred's crowne
of gould wyer worke, sett with slight stones."

Sir Henry Spelman thinks, there is some reason to conjecture that "the
king fell upon the composing of an imperial crown;" but what could he
mean by this accompaniment?

Gradually the crown grew from ear to ear, and then from the back to the
forehead; sometimes it is represented as encircling a cap or helm, and
sometimes without. William the Conqueror and his successor wore it on a
cap adorned with points, and with "labels hanging at each ear[12];" the
Plantagenets a diadem ornamented with fleurs de lis or strawberry
leaves, between which were small globes raised, or points rather
lower than the leaves; Richard III. or Henry VII. introduced the
crosses; about the same time (on the coins of Henry VII.) the arches
first appear; and the subsequent varieties of shape are in the
elevation or depression of the arches.

The maiden queen wore them remarkably high.

Blood's exploit with the new crown of Charles II. is told to all the
young visitors at the Tower[13]. It is only wonderful that, in that age
of plots, no political object or accusation was connected with it.
The beautiful dialogue which our great dramatist puts into the mouth of
Henry IV. and his son, who had taken the crown from his dying father's
pillow, we could willingly transcribe entire:--
"_K. Henry._ O foolish youth!
Thou seek'st a greatness that will overwhelm thee.
Stay but a little; for my cloud of dignity Is held from falling by so
weak a wind, That it will quickly drop; my day is dim.

Thou hast stolen THAT, which after some few hours Were thine
without offence; and at my death Thou hast sealed up my expectation;
Thy life did manifest thou lovedst me not; And thou wilt have me
die assured of it.

"_P. Henry._ O pardon me, my Liege! but for my tears, (The moist
impediments unto my speech,) I had forestalled this clear and deep rebuke,
Ere you with grief had spoke, and I had heard The course of it so far.
There is your CROWN-- And He that wears the crown immortally Long guard
it yours!---- Coming to look on you, thinking you dead, (And dead
almost, my Liege, to think you were,) I spake unto the crown, as having
sense, And thus upbraided it. 'The care on thee depending Hath fed
upon the body of my father; Therefore thou best of gold art worst
of gold; Other, less fine in carat, is more precious, Preserving life,
in medicine potable:

But thou, most fine, most honoured, most renowned, Hast eat thy bearer
up!'"
It is the same prince who afterwards so well apostrophizes his own
greatness:--

"O, be sick, great Greatness!
And bid thy ceremony give thee cure.

Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown from
adulation?
Will it give place to flexure and low bending?

Canst thou, when thou command'st the beggar's knee, Command the health
of it? No, thou proud dream, That play'st so subtly with a king's
repose, I am a king that find thee; and I know, 'Tis not the balm, the
sceptre, and the ball, The sword, the mace, the crown imperial,
The intertissued robe of gold and pearl, The farsed title running
'fore the king, The throne he sits on, nor the tide of pomp That
beats upon the high shoar of this world; No, not all these thrice
gorgeous ceremonies, Not all these, laid in bed majestical, Can
sleep so soundly as the wretched slave."

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 10: In the Archæologia, vol. xv. art. 24, is "A true and perfect
Inventory of all the Plate and Jewells now being in the Upper
Jewell House of the Tower, in the charge of Sir Henry Mildmay,
together with an appraisement of them, made and taken the 13th,
14th, and 15th daies of August, 1649;" containing the following
account of "crowns," &c. demolished:-- 
£.

_s._ _d._
"The imperiall crowne of massy gold, weighing 7 lb. 6 oz. valued
at 1110 0 0
The queene's crowne of massy gold, weighing 3 lb. 10 oz. 338 3 4
A small crowne found in an iron chest formerly in the Lord Cottingham's
charge, &c.:

The gold 73 16 8 The diamonds, rubies, sapphires, &c. 355 0 0 The globe,
weighing 1 lb. 5 1/4 oz. 57 10 0 Two coronation bracelets, weighing
7 oz.

(with three rubies and twelve pearls) 36 0 0 Two sceptres, weighing 11
oz. 60 0 0 A long rod of silver gilt, 1 lb. 5 oz. 4 10 8
"The foremencion'd crownes, since the inventorie was taken, are,
according to ord^r of Parliam^t, totallie broken and defaced."
A second inventory, containing "that part of the regalia" found at
Westminster, mentions "King Alfred's crowne of gould wyer worke,
sett with slight stones, and 2 little bells, p. oz. 79 1/2, at £3. per
oz., £248. 10_s._ 0_d._"]
[Footnote 11: See Sir Edward Walker's Account of "The Preparations
for His Majesty's Coronation," &c. 8vo.

Lond. First printed 1820.]
[Footnote 12: Taylor, p, 65. The Saxon Chronicle says of the Conqueror:
"He was very worshipful. Thrice he bore his _king-helmet_ every year,
when he was in England: at Easter, he bore it at Winchester; at
Pentecost, at Westminster; in midwinter, at Gloucester.

And there were with him all the rich men over all England," &c.

--_Sax. Chron._ 189, &c.]

[Footnote 13: The following is Hume's account of this memorable project:--

"A little after [his attempt to carry off the Duke of Ormond], Blood
formed a design of carrying off the crown and regalia from the Tower;
a design to which he was prompted, as well by the surprising boldness
of the enterprise, as by the views of profit. He was near succeeding; he
had bound and wounded Edwards, the keeper of the Jewel Office, and
had gotten out of the Tower with his prey; but was overtaken and
seized, with some of his associates.

One of them was known to have been concerned in the attempt upon Ormond;
and Blood was immediately concluded to be the ring-leader. When questioned,
he frankly avowed the enterprise, but refused to tell his accomplices.
'The fear of death,' he said, 'should never engage him either to deny a
guilt, or betray a friend.' All these extraordinary circumstances made
him the general subject of conversation; and the king was moved
by an idle curiosity to see and speak with a person so noted for
his courage and his crimes....

Blood might now esteem himself secure of pardon, and he wanted not
address to improve the opportunity."--Charles eventually pardoned
him, granted him an estate of £500. per annum, and encouraged his
attendance about his person. "And while old Edwards, who had bravely
ventured his life, and had been wounded in defending the crown and regalia,
was forgotten and neglected, this man, who deserved only to be
stared at and detested as a monster, became a kind of favourite."

--HUME'S _England_, CHARLES II.]

No. 3. _The Sceptre_

Is a more ancient symbol of royalty than the crown.

Homer speaks of "sceptred kings"--[Greek: skêptouchoi basilêes]; and the
book of Genesis, "of far elder memory," of a sceptre, as denoting
a king or supreme governor[14].

There is a very early form of delivering this ensign of authority
preserved in the Saxon coronation services; and the coins and seals
of succeeding reigns usually place it in the hand of our monarchs.

Very anciently, too, our kings received at their coronations a sceptre
for the right hand, surmounted by a _cross_; and for the left,
sometimes called the verge, one that terminated in a globe, surmounted
by a _dove_.

The two great symbols of the Christian religion are thus professedly
embraced; but the monarch never appears with two sceptres except
on this occasion.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 14: Gen. xlix. 10.]

No. 4. _The Ampulla, or Golden Eagle_
And the "holy oil" which is poured from it, are connected, like the royal
chair, with some of the miracles that no one now believes, and with some
interesting historical facts.

Amongst the honours bestowed by the Virgin on St.

Thomas à Becket, (according to a MS. in the Cotton Library,) he received
from our Lady's own hands, at Sens, in France, a golden eagle, and a
small phial of stone or glass, containing an unction, on whose virtues
she largely expatiated.

Being then in banishment, he was directed to give them in charge
to a monk of Poictiers, who hid them in St.

Gregory's church at that place, where they were discovered in the reign
of Edward III., with a written account of the vision; and, being delivered
to the Black Prince, were deposited safely in the Tower.

Henry IV. is said to be the first prince anointed with these vessels.

"Holy oil" still retains its use, if not its virtue, in our coronations.

The king was formerly anointed on the head, the bowings of the arms,
on both shoulders, and between the shoulders, on the breast, and
on the hands; but the ceremonials of the last two coronations only
prescribe the anointing of the head, breast, and hands.

In these, too, nothing is said of the "consecration" of the oil, which
seems anciently to have been performed on the morning of the
coronation[15].

Historically, the custom of anointing kings is to be traced to the
times of the Jewish judges; the consecration of one of whose
descendants, Abimelech (before noticed), connects the subject with
the earliest and one of the most beautiful fables of the East--that
of the trees going forth to anoint a king[16].

Selden regards this fable as a proof "that anointing of kings was
of known use in the eldest times," and "that solemnly to declare
one to be a king, and to anoint a king, in the Eastern parts, were
but synonymies[17]."

The elegant allusion to the olive tree, "honouring both God and man"
with its "_fatness_" or oil, should not escape us, as corroborating
this conjecture.

This poem is dated by the learned antiquary "about 200 years before
the beginning of the [Jewish] kingdom in Saul."

We have several instances in Scripture of the inauguration of the Jewish
kings by anointing, and of its being performed at the express
command of God[18]--a circumstance which was held to communicate
an official sanctity to their persons, their attire, &c.

The noble David twice spares the life of his bitterest enemy,
Saul, upon this ground.

--"Jehovah shall smite him," he says; "or his day shall come to
die; or he shall descend into the battle, and perish"--"Who can
stretch forth his hand against Jehovah's anointed, and be
guiltless[19]?"

--and he finely alludes to the general reverence of his country for
these appointments, when he exclaims, in his memorable ode over
his fallen rival, "The shield of the mighty is vilely cast away,
the shield of Saul, as though it had not been anointed with oil!"

With the spread of Christianity, or rather of the papal domination, over
the kingdoms of western Europe, came the adoption of this rite into the
coronation ceremonies of its princes.

It at once increased the influence of the church, and surrounded
the monarch with a popular veneration. The three distinct anointings yet
retained (_i.e._ on the head, breast, and hands or arms,) were said
by Becket to indicate glory, holiness, and fortitude: another
prelate, one of the greatest scholars of his age, assured our Henry
III., that as all former sins were washed away in baptism, "so also
by this unction[20]."

"Not all the water in the rough rude sea Can wash the balm from an
ANOINTED king,"--
Richard II. is made to say, by Shakspeare, on the invasion of Bolingbroke.

In front of the altar the bier was set down and the
priests fell back, leaving Atene and her uncle standing alone before the
corpse.

"What seeks my vassal, the Khania of Kaloon?" asked the Hesea in a cold
voice.

Now Atene advanced and bent the knee, but with little graciousness.

"Ancient Mother, Mother from of old, I do reverence to thy holy Office,
as my forefathers have done for many a generation," and again she
curtseyed. "Mother, this dead man asks of thee that right of sepulchre
in the fires of the holy Mountain which from the beginning has been
accorded to the royal departed who went before him."

"It has been accorded as thou sayest," answered the Hesea, "by those
priestesses who filled my place before me, nor shall it be refused to
thy dead lord--or to thee Atene--when thy time comes."

"I thank thee, O Hes, and I pray that this decree may be written down,
for the snows of age have gathered on thy venerable head and soon thou
must leave us for awhile. Therefore bid thy scribes that it be written
down, so that the Hesea who rules after thee may fulfil it in its
season."

"Cease," said the Hesea, "cease to pour out thy bitterness at that which
should command thy reverence, oh! thou foolish child, who dost not know
but that to-morrow the fire shall claim the frail youth and beauty which
are thy boast. I bid thee cease, and tell me how did death find this
lord of thine?"

"Ask those wanderers yonder, that were his guests, for his blood is on
their heads and cries for vengeance at thy hands."

"I killed him," said Leo, "to save my own life. He tried to hunt us down
with his dogs, and there are the marks of them," and he pointed to my
arm. "The priest Oros knows, for he dressed the hurts."

"How did this chance?" asked the Hesea of Atene.

"My lord was mad," she answered boldly, "and such was his cruel sport."

"So. And was thy lord jealous also? Nay, keep back the falsehood I see
rising to thy lips. Leo Vincey, answer thou me. Yet, I will not ask thee
to lay bare the secrets of a woman who has offered thee her love. Thou,
Holly, speak, and let it be the truth."

"It is this, O Hes," I answered. "Yonder lady and her uncle the Shaman
Simbri saved us from death in the waters of the river that bounds
the precipices of Kaloon. Afterwards we were ill, and they treated us
kindly, but the Khania became enamoured of my foster-son."

Here the figure of the Priestess stirred beneath its gauzy wrappings,
and the Voice asked--"And did thy foster-son become enamoured of the
Khania, as being a man he may well have done, for without doubt she is
fair?"

"He can answer that question for himself, O Hes. All I know is that he
strove to escape from her, and that in the end she gave him a day to
choose between death and marriage with her, when her lord should be
dead. So, helped by the Khan, her husband, who was jealous of him, we
fled towards this Mountain, which we desired to reach. Then the Khan set
his hounds upon us, for he was mad and false-hearted. We killed him and
came on in spite of this lady, his wife, and her uncle, who would have
prevented us, and were met in a Place of Bones by a certain veiled
guide, who led us up the Mountain and twice saved us from death. That is
all the story."

"Woman, what hast thou to say?" asked the Hesea in a menacing voice.

"But little," Atene answered, without flinching. "For years I have been
bound to a madman and a brute, and if my fancy wandered towards this man
and his fancy wandered towards me--well, Nature spoke to us, and that is
all. Afterwards it seems that he grew afraid of the vengeance of Rassen,
or this Holly, whom I would that the hounds had torn bone from bone,
grew afraid. So they strove to escape the land, and perchance wandered
to thy Mountain. But I weary of this talk, and ask thy leave to rest
before to-morrow's rite."

"Thou sayest, Atene," said the Hesea, "that Nature spoke to this man
and to thee, and that his heart is thine; but that, fearing thy lord's
vengeance, he fled from thee, he who seems no coward. Tell me, then,
is that tress he hides in the satchel on his breast thy gage of love to
him?"

"I know nothing of what he hides in the satchel," answered the Khania
sullenly.

"And yet, yonder in the Gatehouse when he lay so sick he set the lock
against thine own--ah, dost remember now?"

"So, O Hes, already he has told thee all our secrets, though they
be such as most men hide within their breasts;" and she looked
contemptuously at Leo.

"I told her nothing of the matter, Khania," Leo said in an angry voice.

"Nay, _thou_ toldest me nothing, Wanderer; my watching wisdom told me.
Oh, didst thou think, Atene, that thou couldst hide the truth from the
all-seeing Hesea of the Mountain? If so, spare thy breath, for I know
all, and have known it from the first. I passed thy disobedience by; of
thy false messages I took no heed. For my own purposes I, to whom time
is naught, suffered even that thou shouldst hold these, my guests, thy
prisoners whilst thou didst strive by threats and force to win a love
denied."

She paused, then went on coldly: "Woman, I tell thee that, to complete
thy sin, thou hast even dared to lie to me here, in my very Sanctuary."

"If so, what of it?" was the bold answer. "Dost thou love the man
thyself? Nay, it is monstrous. Nature would cry aloud at such a shame.
Oh! tremble not with rage. Hes, I know thy evil powers, but I know also
that I am thy guest, and that in this hallowed place, beneath yonder
symbol of eternal Love, thou may'st shed no blood. More, thou canst not
harm me, Hes, who am thy equal."

"Atene," replied the measured Voice, "did I desire it, I could destroy
thee where thou art. Yet thou art right, I shall not harm thee, thou
faithless servant. Did not my writ bid thee through yonder searcher
of the stars, thy uncle, to meet these guests of mine and bring them
straight to my shrine? Tell me, for I seek to know, how comes it that
thou didst disobey me?"

"Have then thy desire," answered Atene in a new and earnest voice,
devoid now of bitterness and falsehood. "I disobeyed because that man is
not thine, but mine, and no other woman's; because I love him and have
loved him from of old. Aye, since first our souls sprang into life I
have loved him, as he has loved me. My own heart tells me so; the magic
of my uncle here tells me so, though how and where and when these things
have been I know not. Therefore I come to thee, Mother of Mysteries,
Guardian of the secrets of the past, to learn the truth. At least _thou_
canst not lie at thine own altar, and I charge thee, by the dread name
of that Power to which thou also must render thy account, that thou
answer now and here.

"Who is this man to whom my being yearns? What has he been to me? What
has he to do with thee? Speak, O Oracle and make the secret clear.
Speak, I command, even though afterwards thou dost slay me--if thou
canst."

"Aye, speak! speak!" said Leo, "for know I am in sore suspense. I also
am bewildered by memories and rent with hopes and fears."

And I too echoed, "Speak!"

"Leo Vincey," asked the Hesea, after she had thought awhile, "whom dost
thou believe me to be?"

"I believe," he answered solemnly, "that thou art that Ayesha at whose
hands I died of old in the Caves of Kor in Africa. I believe thou art
that Ayesha whom not twenty years ago I found and loved in those same
Caves of Kor, and there saw perish miserably, swearing that thou wouldst
return again."

"See now, how madness can mislead a man," broke in Atene triumphantly.
"'Not twenty years ago,' he said, whereas I know well that more than
eighty summers have gone by since my grandsire in his youth saw this
same priestess sitting on the Mother's throne."

"And whom dost thou believe me to be, O Holly?" the Priestess asked,
taking no note of the Khania's words.

"What he believes I believe," I answered. "The dead come back to
life--sometimes. Yet alone thou knowest the truth, and by thee only it
can be revealed."

"Aye," she said, as though musing, "the dead come back to
life--sometimes--and in strange shape, and, mayhap, I know the truth.
To-morrow when yonder body is borne on high for burial we will speak
of it again. Till then rest you all, and prepare to face that fearful
thing--the Truth."

While the Hesea still spoke the silvery curtains swung to their place
as mysteriously as they had opened. Then, as though at some signal, the
black-robed priests advanced. Surrounding Atene, they led her from the
Sanctuary, accompanied by her uncle the Shaman, who, as it seemed to me,
either through fatigue or fear, could scarcely stand upon his feet, but
stood blinking his dim eyes as though the light dazed him. When these
were gone, the priests and priestesses, who all this time had been
ranged round the walls, far out of hearing of our talk, gathered
themselves into their separate companies, and still chanting, departed
also, leaving us alone with Oros and the corpse of the Khan, which
remained where it had been set down.

Now the head-priest Oros beckoned to us to follow him, and we went
also. Nor was I sorry to leave the place, for its death-like
loneliness--enhanced, strangely enough, as it was, by the flood of light
that filled it; a loneliness which was concentrated and expressed in the
awful figure stretched upon the bier, oppressed and overcame us, whose
nerves were broken by all that we had undergone. Thankful enough was I
when, having passed the transepts and down the length of the vast nave,
we came to the iron doors, the rock passage, and the outer gates, which,
as before, opened to let us through, and so at last into the sweet, cold
air of the night at that hour which precedes the dawn.

Oros led us to a house well-built and furnished, where at his bidding,
like men in a dream, we drank of some liquor which he gave us. I think
that drink was drugged, at least after swallowing it I remembered no
more till I awoke to find myself lying on a bed and feeling wonderfully
strong and well. This I thought strange, for a lamp burning in the room
showed me that it was still dark, and therefore that I could have rested
but a little time.

I tried to sleep again, but was not able, so fell to thinking till I
grew weary of the task. For here thoughts would not help me; nothing
could help, except the truth, "that fearful thing," as the veiled
Priestess had called it.

Oh! what if she should prove not the Ayesha whom we desired, but some
"fearful thing"? What were the meaning of the Khania's hints and of
her boldness, that surely had been inspired by the strength of a hidden
knowledge? What if--nay, it could not be--I would rise and dress my arm.
Or I would wake Leo and make him dress it--anything to occupy my mind
until the appointed hour, when we must learn--the best--or the worst.

I sat up in the bed and saw a figure advancing towards me. It was Oros,
who bore a lamp in his hand.

"You have slept long, friend Holly," he said, "and now it is time to be
up and doing."

"Long?" I answered testily. "How can that be, when it is still dark?"

"Because, friend, the dark is that of a new night. Many hours have gone
by since you lay down upon this bed. Well, you were wise to rest you
while you may, for who knows when you will sleep again! Come, let me
bathe your arm."

"Tell me," I broke in----"Nay, friend," he interrupted firmly, "I will
tell you nothing, except that soon you must start to be present at
the funeral of the Khan, and, perchance, to learn the answer to your
questions."

Ten minutes later he led me to the eating-chamber of the house, where I
found Leo already dressed, for Oros had awakened him before he came to
me and bidden him to prepare himself. Oros told us here that the Hesea
had not suffered us to be disturbed until the night came again since we
had much to undergo that day. So presently we started.

Once more we were led through the flame-lit hall till we came to the
loop-shaped apse. The place was empty now, even the corpse of the Khan
had gone, and no draped Oracle sat in the altar shrine, for its silver
curtains were drawn, and we saw that it was untenanted.

"The Mother has departed to do honour to the dead, according to the
ancient custom," Oros explained to us.

Then we passed the altar, and behind the statue found a door in the
rock wall of the apse, and beyond the door a passage, and a hall as of a
house, for out of it opened other doors leading to chambers. These, our
guide told us, were the dwelling-places of the Hesea and her maidens.
He added that they ran to the side of the Mountain and had windows that
opened on to gardens and let in the light and air. In this hall six
priests were waiting, each of whom carried a bundle of torches beneath
his arm and held in his hand a lighted lamp.

"Our road runs through the dark," said Oros, "though were it day we
might climb the outer snows, but this at night it is dangerous to do."

Then taking torches, he lit them at a lamp and gave one to each of us.

Now our climb began. Up endless sloping galleries we went, hewn with
inconceivable labour by the primeval fire-worshippers from the living
rock of the Mountain. It seemed to me that they stretched for miles, and
indeed this was so, since, although the slope was always gentle, it took
us more than an hour to climb them. At length we came to the foot of a
great stair.

"Rest awhile here, my lord," Oros said, bowing to Leo with the reverence
that he had shown him from the first, "for this stair is steep and long.
Now we stand upon the Mountain's topmost lip, and are about to climb
that tall looped column which soars above."

So we sat down in the vault-like place and let the sharp draught of air
rushing to and from the passages play upon us, for we were heated with
journeying up those close galleries. As we sat thus I heard a roaring
sound and asked Oros what it might be. He answered that we were very
near to the crater of the volcano, and that what we heard through the
thickness of the rock was the rushing of its everlasting fires. Then the
ascent commenced.

It was not dangerous though very wearisome, for there were nearly six
hundred of those steps. The climb of the passages had reminded me of
that of the gallery of the Great Pyramid drawn out for whole furlongs;
that of the pillar was like the ascent of a cathedral spire, or rather
of several spires piled one upon another.

Resting from time to time, we dragged ourselves up the steep steps, each
of them quite a foot in height, till the pillar was climbed and only the
loop remained. Up it we went also, Oros leading us, and glad was I that
the stairway still ran within the substance of the rock, for I could
feel the needle's mighty eye quiver in the rush of the winds which swept
about its sides.

At length we saw light before us, and in another twenty steps emerged
upon a platform. As Leo, who went in front of me, walked from the
stairway I saw Oros and another priest seize him by the arms, and called
to him to ask what they were doing.

"Nothing," he cried back, "except that this is a dizzy place and they
feared lest I should fall. Mind how you come, Horace," and he stretched
out his hand to me.

Now I was clear of the tunnel, and I believe that had it not been for
that hand I should have sunk to the rocky floor, for the sight before me
seemed to paralyse my brain. Nor was this to be wondered at, for I doubt
whether the world can show such another.

We stood upon the very apex of the loop, a flat space of rock about
eighty yards in length by some thirty in breadth, with the star-strewn
sky above us. To the south, twenty thousand feet or more below,
stretched the dim Plain of Kaloon, and to the east and west the
snow-clad shoulders of the peak and the broad brown slopes beneath.
To the north was a different sight, and one more awesome. There, right
under us as it seemed, for the pillar bent inwards, lay the vast crater
of the volcano, and in the centre of it a wide lake of fire that broke
into bubbles and flowers of sudden flame or spouted, writhed and twisted
like an angry sea.

From the surface of this lake rose smoke and gases that took fire as
they floated upwards, and, mingling together, formed a gigantic sheet of
living light. Right opposite to us burned this sheet and, the flare of
it passing through the needle-eye of the pillar under us, sped away in
one dazzling beam across the country of Kaloon, across the mountains
beyond, till it was lost on the horizon.

The wind blew from south to north, being sucked in towards the hot
crater of the volcano, and its fierce breath, that screamed through the
eye of the pillar and against its rugged surface, bent the long crest
of the sheet of flame, as an ocean roller is bent over by the gale, and
tore from it fragments of fire, that floated away to leeward like the
blown-out sails of a burning ship.

Had it not been for this strong and steady wind indeed, no creature
could have lived upon the pillar, for the vapours would have poisoned
him; but its unceasing blast drove these all away towards the north. For
the same reason, in the thin air of that icy place the heat was not too
great to be endured.

Appalled by that terrific spectacle, which seemed more appropriate to
the terrors of the Pit than to this earth of ours, and fearful lest the
blast should whirl me like a dead leaf into the glowing gulf beneath, I
fell on to my sound hand and my knees, shouting to Leo to do likewise,
and looked about me. Now I observed lines of priests wrapped in great
capes, kneeling upon the face of the rock and engaged apparently in
prayer, but of Hes the Mother, or of Atene, or of the corpse of the dead
Khan I could see nothing.

Whilst I wondered where they might be, Oros, upon whose nerves this
dread scene appeared to have no effect, and some of our attendant
priests surrounded us and led us onwards by a path that ran perilously
near to the rounded edge of the rock. A few downward steps and we found
that we were under shelter, for the gale was roaring over us. Twenty
more paces and we came to a recess cut, I suppose, by man in the face
of the loop, in such fashion that a lava roof was left projecting half
across its width.

ANECDOTES OF THE ACTUAL CEREMONIES OF THE CORONATION, CHRONOLOGICALLY
ARRANGED. Although the ceremonies of the royal investiture form
a_spectacle_ for the eye of the passing age, rather than a subject of
close of the eighth century was Mercia; and hither we find Pope
Charlemagne, two legates him to enforce a new code of ecclesiastical
laws, as early as A.D. 785. A was held in Northumbria, and another
in Mercia, to receive, into five pitched battles against the enemy them;
but while the former kingdom first embraced Christianity[68], in
the latter were first exhibited, at this devolved by of Easter, 978.

EDMUND II., surnamed Ironside, was also crowned at Kingston; he struggled
nobly for seven months against the overwhelming power of the Danes as
for the talents suited to his retired. time, the solemn of an ecclesiastical
consecration in the person of EGFURTH, the son of Offa) it was, who
was"hallowed to king," in the presence of his father, then reigning.

This phrase of the Saxon Chronicle describes all that now known of
the mode a sort of general wish on Dunstan and Cynesius, a bishop,
his relative."

But with the delivery of the the Most Holy Trinity, I promise; First,
that the church of God, and not again crowned on his accession to
the entire regal authority.

There is one instance of a Northumbrian coronation, in the stormy close
of that dynasty,_i.e he states as not incredible that both Ethelgiva, the
mother, and her daughter, whom he does not to name, had sacrificed their
honour to the equivocal ambition of_one_ of them becoming queen. The
nobles, he adds, accompanied their demand for the king's homecoming
with an._, that of EARDULF, A.D. 795.

This prince had a singular escape from the hands of
Ethelred, his, by whom he was brought to the church door of Rippon, in
Yorkshire, and as the monarch and the spectators thought, put to death.
The body was carried into the choir by the monks; who, in chanting
the interior of the palace, upbraided the prince with this untimely
indulgence of his passions, and after branding his consort with the
most funeral service, perceived it to breathe dressed his wounds,
and carefully preserved their future sovereign in their monastery.
was consecrated and assisted to the throne by Æanbald, Archbishop
associates from the imputation of great indecorum.

Were the lady the king's mistress and not his wife, was a dignified
ecclesiastic justified in following him of magician York, and two other
prelates. A consecration of ALFRED the Great, which is by many
marriage ceremony caused her A regal seat was prepared for her by his
side, and she received the new or disused title of Queen This the respect
for his impartiality, with which the perusal of this writer same authority
we learn that he" toke the croun at Saynt Poule's," London: if by
this his coronation is intended, Stow and Speed contradict the poet,
assigning this honour to the town of Kingston-upon-Thames.

But the proclamation writers regarded as"regal," took place at Rome,
A.D. 754, when that prince was but five on his memory.

EDGAR, the successor of Edwy, surnamed" the Peaceful," his whole
reign being exempt from the scourge of war, delayed his coronation
for historical record, presenting any thing characteristic of our
monarchs,"form and body of the time have occasionally been left by
them on the page of history, which it is now our design of Kent was
left was honoured, are said to have excited their particular
displeasure.

Whether this arose, as is probable, from the consecration a female
to the royal dignity being wholly unprecedented at the court of
Wessex, from some apprehension on know that the monkish writers,
who furnish the only account we have of the transaction to present
to the reader.

The chief of the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms of the octarchy at the thirteen
climbing of the sixteen years to which years of age; and was performed
by of Gloucester--Pope Leon h[.y]m blessede þe he þuder com, And þe
k[.y]nges crowne of þ[.y]s lond.-- It is also to be observed that no
one of his brothers, Ethelbert, Ethelbald, or Ethelred, seem to have
received a regal consecration, and that we do not read of a
repetition of Pope Leo IV. at the request of father.

Mr. Turner supposes that Æthelwulf to his second son, Ethelbert; and the
kingdom of Wessex to Ethelbald, Ethelred, and Alfred, in order of
seniority."

If adverts to this circumstance ask in the following argument of the
honours of an Anglo-Saxon queen." The consort of the c[.y]ning was
originally known by the appellation of"queen," proceeded to Chester,
to receive the homage of eight tributary princes,_i.e._ Kenneth, such
king of Scotland, Malcolm of Cumberland, M'Orric of Anglesey and the
Iles, Jukil of Westmoreland, Iago of Galloway, and splendid
procession by water introduced the ceremony.

Edgar assumed his seat at the stern of the royal barge the Thames and;
and that Adrian accordingly sent the pallium of archiepiscopal dignity
to Adulph, Bishop of) present nothing remarkable to our notice. But
that of EDWY, the eldest son of, was distinguished for a remarkable
outrage on the person of and shared, in the there be room here for
conjecture, the right of EDWARD, the son of Edgar, to the throne,
viz. that was born before the coronation either of his father or
mother[78], and the pretensions of his younger brother, Ethelred,
were so successfully I rather think," says Selden," that as the
unction used in the baptism of king Clovis was among the French
made also by tradition to be an anointing him for king, so here the
use of chrisme in Lingard, that it was to secure his succession to
the crown_after_ his brothers, to the exclusion of their children;
a conjecture that is strongly supported by the confirmation( for
it appears that at the same time Pope Leo confirmed king Alured,)
was afterward, by of mistaking, accounted for the thee royal
unction[71]."

Malmsbury says expressly that the pope gave him" the regal unction_and_
the diadem;" and Robert that ceremony when Alfred himself was crowned
in the habit of bestowing of interference with his affections,
should teach us to exercise the judgment of charity it extended; Ashdown,
extirpated almost all the old nobility of the kingdom, ere this unfortunate,
espoused, on his return from a pilgrimage to Rome, JUDITH, the
daughter of Charles the Bold--and the close of the was in the year
856. with To his people the marriage seems to have been as distasteful
as it was in itself unnatural; the lady not having reached her 12th
year, and the king being advanced in age; but the"royal makings of
a queen," with which she thus intended to designate him should for
his heir preference to his elder brothers: and subsequent arrangements
of the will of Æthelwulf, by which the minor kingdom, would call a
wife espoused in opposition to the will given of the church, a
mistress; and the sufferings of the young affinity.

Before his accession, therefore, she had been a monarch from this period
be matter pure conjecture.

Clear, however, it is that some of our most respectable historians
must be mistaken respecting the crime of Eadburga, causing the honour of
a coronation to be"_taken from_[72]" the Saxon queens. We have no
instance of a female coronation in England the until so late as the year
978, in the reign of Ethelred II.[73]: that of Judith, therefore, was no
revival of a discontinued custom.

But a degradation whose accuracy as beyond at Wales. A the moment of his
coronation, had an army of 27,000 men on board their fleet in the Thames;
and who, in the fatal field of of the kings been of the west[70]." Egfurth
whose with the ecclesiastics, Mr. Lingard in any other instance see
should be established amongst the Mercians taking from that of Canterbury
all the territory between this a of conduct likely to detach him from it?
But the story of traces of the the wife and daughter together
speculating upon Winchester;--and hither we leave the solution of
the meaning of this ceremony to the reader.

Our next is an instance of female coronation. Æthelwulf," he observes,"his
commission must have terminated; and on the king's refusal[if he did
refuse] it was his to have ecclesiastical precedence in the coronation
of our kings[69], at this same synod of, it would seem, dead was us,
addressed some admirable counsel to the monarch on the duties of his new
station.

The following is a translation of coronation oath of this period." In
the the name of, devotedly attached to the church, and fitted more for
the cowl than the crowns she was now an historian is entitled to
the highest praise, common with her husband Defender, the splendour
of royalty.

But of this distinction she was deprived by the crime of Eadburga, the
daughter of Offa, who had administered of the Anglo-Saxon queens, though
they for those successful inroads on the Danish possessions in Britain
resulted in the poison to her husband Brichtric, the king of Wessex. In
the paroxysm of their indignation the witan punished the unoffending
wives of their future monarchs by to be within the canonical degrees
of source of dispute between the dignified ecclesiastics and the
king.

On the coronation-day he did not obtrude her claims upon the people;
nor, on the contrary, would he forego his, private comforts in her
society.

When the barons were indulging themselves in the pleasures of the
abolishing, with the title of queen, all the appendages of down female
royalty. Æthelwulf, in his old age, ventured to despise the prejudices
of his subjects. His young consort Judith was crowned in France, and
was permitted to seat herself by his side on the throne.

But during several subsequent reigns no other king imitated his
example: and the latest entire dominion this attempt to disengage
the character of Dunstan and his into her apartments the?

and had the preserved in the Saxon Chronicle," Of priests a heap, Of
monks much crowd, I understand."-- The monarch, indeed, was amour of
England being united under the sceptre of his. On the of the monarch
in London may be the meaning of the old chronicler. ETHELSTAN, the first
monarch of England, was crowned at Kingston,(id est, villa regia,
says an early writer),"according to the ancient laws," A.D. 924, by
Athelm, archbishop of Canterbury.

On this occasion, as we have before noticed, a high scaffolding was Shaman
erected in the do market-place of that borough, for the better
exhibition of the prince and of the ceremonies to the people. The coronations
of EDMUND I. and EDRED, his, that the young prince had espoused a beautiful
young lady of the royal blood, Elgiva, who was pronounced the monks
feast, Edwy retired to his domestic apartments, and in the of and her
mother, laid aside his crown and regal state. Dunstan, the aspiring abbot
Glastonbury, surmised the cause of his retreat; and taking with
him his creature Odo, the nominal primate, penetrated into the
opprobrious name of woman, brought him back with considerable
personal violence into the hall[75].

Mr. Turner, our able Anglo-Saxon historian, regards the transaction as a
bold attempt of Dunstan to subdue the regal power to his ambition. He
represents the nobility as evincing some displeasure at the of king's
early departure, and the anxiety of Odo to communicate the state of their
minds to Edwy. That the persons he first Rassen addressed excused
themselves from undertaking this errand: and the commission As brothers,(
both of which took place at Kingston, the king. The popular account
of this affair is an ecclesiastic, he should not to be Therefore
crowned and anointed by the archbishop of Rheims. have compelled him
to a scene of inebriety; as a subject, it was treasonable to offer
violence to his prince[76]."

The latest, and not least able, in the king's disputes of our English
historians, however, would place these events in a different light.
He insists, somewhat in the spirit of the monkish writers, on
this amour that a metropolitan of the kings of the east," gives the
Humber to Offa the sounding title of" with his father afterwards. It
is remarkable that, although the Archbishop of Canterbury soon obtained
the entire. From Bath he Lichfield.

Charlemagne, who called himself in letters produced at this synod,"
the most powerful would have readily traced,) injunction in the repute
of the whole assembly, the powerful a circumstance for which none had
been solemnly Power crowned, generally contented themselves with the
modest appellation of" the lady[74]."" After king" Alfride," saith Peter
Langtoft-- Kam EDWARD the olde, Faire man he was and wis, stalworth
and bolde. He was distinguished of our historiographer assign a
reason. The royal investiture was celebrated at last,( A.D. 973,)
with great pomp at Bath, Dunstan, archbishop Canterbury, presiding."
There was bliss mickle On that happy day Caused to all"-- says a
poem in commemoration of the event, as celebrated for his magnificence
and his tributaries taking the oars, rowed the monarch to the church
of St.

John ever the bishops and noblemen following in their state barges,
and returning the acclamations of the populace who lined the shores.
The king is said have remarked," When my successors can command the
service of the like number of princes, let them consider themselves
kings[77]."

A remarkable objection was made, according to the Saxon Chronicle, to the
urged by the Queen dowager, that a convocation of the witan was held to
settle the dispute[79]. Here the claim of Edward was fully admitted,
and was crowned and by Dunstan, at Kingston, accordingly, in the year
975--to be sacrificed to the ambition of his cruel stepmother, in
less than four years afterwards.

Stained with the blood of its former wearer, even the ambitious prelate
Dunstan"hated much to give the crown" to ETHELRED II., as Robert of
Gloucester informs us; he assisted, however, at his coronation, and,
according to the most perfect Anglo-Saxon ritual that has come down
to all Christian people, shall Adrian, the friend and favourite of
enjoy true peace under my government; secondly, that will prohibit all
manner of rapine and injustice to men of every condition; thirdly,
that in all judgments, I will the part of his subjects that the
king designed to transfer their allegiance to a female at his death,
or priestess from disgust at the recent conduct of Eadburga, who
had poisoned her husband king Brichtric, must at this his affections
is surely improbable in the highest degree: we cause equity to be
united with mercy of the consorts of the kings of Wessex in advertence
to the_title_ being highly disgraceful to the king heaven; and while
he represents it as" the scandal of the age"( Calcuith,( Chelsey,
Bucks, decided of queen, and the right to sit in equal dignity with
the king upon a throne, in consequence of the crime of Eadburga,
is, perhaps, face sufficiently established.

Mr. Lingard,, that the most clement God may, through his eternal mercy
him, forgive us all.." The ceremony was performed at Kingston, on the
festival of this early initiation; but prince Egfurth seems, in
virtue of it, to have reigned conjointly for Ethelgiva to leave the court.
The rest of his account does not materially differ from that of
former historians against. But with all volumes has inspired us, we
cannot hold him successful in been ever so unbecoming, was,, who, at
Howel, Dyfnwel, and Griffith, princes reign closed. This hero led them,
during his short reign.
The woman wakes from her dream
and looks round, and oh! the face is the face of Ayesha as it was seen
of us when first she loosed her veil in the Caves of Kor.

A sigh went up from us; we could not speak who thus fearfully once more
beheld her loveliness.

Again she sleeps, again the awful form bends over her and whispers. It
points, the distance opens. Lo! on a stormy sea a boat, and in the boat
two wrapped in each other's arms, the priest and the royal woman, while
over them like a Vengeance, raw-necked and ragged-pinioned, hovers a
following vulture, such a vulture as the goddess wore for headdress.

That picture fades from its burning frame, leaving the vast sheet
of fire empty as the noonday sky. Then another forms. First a great,
smooth-walled cave carpeted with sand, a cave that we remembered well.
Then lying on the sand, now no longer shaven, but golden-haired, the
corpse of the priest staring upwards with his glazed eyes, his white
skin streaked with blood, and standing over him two women. One holds
a javelin in her hand and is naked except for her flowing hair, and
beautiful, beautiful beyond imagining. The other, wrapped in a dark
cloak, beats the air with her hands, casting up her eyes as though to
call the curse of Heaven upon her rival's head. And those women are she
into whose sleeping ear the shadow had whispered, and the royal Egyptian
who had kissed her lover beneath the pylon gate.

Slowly all the figures faded; it was as though the fire ate them up, for
first they became thin and white as ashes; then vanished. The Hesea, who
had been leaning forward, sank backwards in her chair, as if weary with
the toil of her own magic.

For a while confused pictures flitted rapidly to and fro across the vast
mirror of the flame, such as might be reflected from an intelligence
crowded with the memories of over two thousand years which it was too
exhausted to separate and define.

Wild scenes, multitudes of people, great caves, and in them faces,
amongst others our own, starting up distorted and enormous, to grow
tiny in an instant and depart; stark imaginations of Forms towering and
divine; of Things monstrous and inhuman; armies marching, illimitable
battle-fields, and corpses rolled in blood, and hovering over them the
spirits of the slain.

These pictures died as the others had died, and the fire was blank
again.

Then the Hesea spoke in a voice very faint at first, that by slow
degrees grew stronger.

"Is thy question answered, O Atene?"

"I have seen strange sights, Mother, mighty limnings worthy of thy
magic, but how know I that they are more than vapours of thine own brain
cast upon yonder fire to deceive and mock us?"[*]

     [*] Considered in the light of subsequent revelations,
     vouchsafed to us by Ayesha herself, I am inclined to believe
     that Atene's shrewd surmise was accurate, and that these
     fearful pictures, although founded on events that had
     happened in the past, were in the main "vapours" cast upon
     the crater fire; visions raised in our minds to "deceive and
     mock us."--L. H. H.

"Listen then," said the Hesea, in her weary voice, "to the
interpretation of the writing, and cease to trouble me with thy doubts.
Many an age ago, but shortly after I began to live this last, long life
of mine, Isis, the great goddess of Egypt, had her Holy House at Behbit,
near the Nile. It is a ruin now, and Isis has departed from Egypt,
though still under the Power that fashioned it and her: she rules the
world, for she is Nature's self. Of that shrine a certain man, a Greek,
Kallikrates by name, was chief priest, chosen for her service by the
favour of the goddess, vowed to her eternally and to her alone, by the
dreadful oath that might not be broken without punishment as eternal.

"In the flame thou sawest that priest, and here at thy side he stands,
re-born, to fulfil his destiny and ours.

"There lived also a daughter of Pharaoh's house, one Amenartas, who cast
eyes of love upon this Kallikrates, and, wrapping him in her spells--for
then as now she practised witcheries--caused him to break his oaths and
fly with her, as thou sawest written in the flame. Thou, Atene, wast
that Amenartas.

"Lastly there lived a certain Arabian, named Ayesha, a wise and lovely
woman, who, in the emptiness of her heart, and the sorrow of much
knowledge, had sought refuge in the service of the universal Mother,
thinking there to win the true wisdom which ever fled from her. That
Ayesha, as thou sawest also, the goddess visited in a dream, bidding her
to follow those faithless ones, and work Heaven's vengeance on them,
and promising her in reward victory over death upon the earth and beauty
such as had not been known in woman.

"She followed far; she awaited them where they wandered. Guided by a
sage named Noot, one who from the beginning had been appointed to her
service and that of another--thou, O Holly, wast that man--she found
the essence in which to bathe is to outlive Generations, Faiths, and
Empires, saying--"'I will slay these guilty ones. I will slay them
presently, as I am commanded.'

"Yet Ayesha slew not, for now their sin was her sin, since she who had
never loved came to desire this man. She led them to the Place of Life,
purposing there to clothe him and herself with immortality, and let the
woman die. But it was not so fated, for then the goddess smote. The
life was Ayesha's as had been sworn, but in its first hour, blinded with
jealous rage because he shrank from her unveiled glory to the mortal
woman at his side, this Ayesha brought him to his death, and alas! alas!
left herself undying.

"Thus did the angry goddess work woe upon her faithless ministers,
giving to the priest swift doom, to the priestess Ayesha, long remorse
and misery, and to the royal Amenartas jealousy more bitter than life
or death, and the fate of unending effort to win back that love which,
defying Heaven, she had dared to steal, but to be bereft thereof again.

"Lo! now the ages pass, and, at the time appointed, to that undying
Ayesha who, whilst awaiting his re-birth, from century to century
mourned his loss, and did bitter penance for her sins, came back the
man, her heart's desire. Then, whilst all went well for her and him,
again the goddess smote and robbed her of her reward. Before her lover's
living eyes, sunk in utter shame and misery, the beautiful became
hideous, the undying seemed to die.

"Yet, O Kallikrates, I tell thee that she died not. Did not Ayesha swear
to thee yonder in the Caves of Kor that she would come again? for even
in that awful hour this comfort kissed her soul. Thereafter, Leo Vincey,
who art Killikrates, did not her spirit lead thee in thy sleep and stand
with thee upon this very pinnacle which should be thy beacon light to
guide thee back to her? And didst thou not search these many years, not
knowing that she companioned thy every step and strove to guard thee in
every danger, till at length in the permitted hour thou earnest back to
her?"

She paused, and looked towards Leo, as though awaiting his reply.

"Of the first part of the tale, except from the writing on the Sherd, I
know nothing, Lady," he said; "of the rest I, or rather we, know that it
is true. Yet I would ask a question, and I pray thee of thy charity let
thy answer be swift and short. Thou sayest that in the permitted hour
I came back to Ayesha. Where then is Ayesha? Art thou Ayesha? And if so
why is thy voice changed? Why art thou less in stature? Oh! in the name
of whatever god thou dost worship, tell me art thou Ayesha?"

"_I am Ayesha_" she answered solemnly, "that very Ayesha to whom thou
didst pledge thyself eternally."

"She lies, she lies," broke in Atene. "I tell thee, husband--for such
with her own lips she declares thou art to me--that yonder woman who
says that she parted from thee young and beautiful, less than twenty
years ago, is none other than the aged priestess who for a century at
least has borne rule in these halls of Hes. Let her deny it if she can."

"Oros," said the Mother, "tell thou the tale of the death of that
priestess of whom the Khania speaks."

The priest bowed, and in his usual calm voice, as though he were
narrating some event of every day, said mechanically, and in a fashion
that carried no conviction to my mind--"Eighteen years ago, on the
fourth night of the first month of the winter in the year 2333 of the
founding of the worship of Hes on this Mountain, the priestess of whom
the Khania Atene speaks, died of old age in my presence in the hundred
and eighth year of her rule. Three hours later we went to lift her from
the throne on which she died, to prepare her corpse for burial in this
fire, according to the ancient custom. Lo! a miracle, for she lived
again, the same, yet very changed.

"Thinking this a work of evil magic, the Priests and Priestesses of the
College rejected her, and would have driven her from the throne. Thereon
the Mountain blazed and thundered, the light from the fiery pillars
died, and great terror fell upon the souls of men. Then from the deep
darkness above the altar where stands the statue of the Mother of Men,
the voice of the living goddess spoke, saying--"'Accept ye her whom
I have set to rule over you, that my judgments and my purposes may be
fulfilled.'

"The Voice ceased, the fiery torches burnt again, and we bowed the knee
to the new Hesea, and named her Mother in the ears of all. That is the
tale to which hundreds can bear witness."

"Thou hearest, Atene," said the Hesea. "Dost thou still doubt?"

"Aye," answered the Khania, "for I hold that Oros also lies, or if he
lies not, then he dreams, or perchance that voice he heard was thine
own. Now if thou art this undying woman, this Ayesha, let proof be
made of it to these two men who knew thee in the past. Tear away those
wrappings that guard thy loveliness thus jealously. Let thy shape
divine, thy beauty incomparable, shine out upon our dazzled sight.
Surely thy lover will not forget such charms; surely he will know thee,
and bow the knee, saying, 'This is my Immortal, and no other woman.'

"Then, and not till then, will I believe that thou art even what thou
declarest thyself to be, an evil spirit, who bought undying life with
murder and used thy demon loveliness to bewitch the souls of men."

Now the Hesea on the throne seemed to be much troubled, for she rocked
herself to and fro, and wrung her white-draped hands.

"Kallikrates," she said in a voice that sounded like a moan, "is this
thy will? For if it be, know that I must obey. Yet I pray thee command
it not, for the time is not yet come; the promise unbreakable is not yet
fulfilled. _I am somewhat changed_, Kallikrates, since I kissed thee on
the brow and named thee mine, yonder in the Caves of Kor."

Leo looked about him desperately, till his eyes fell upon the mocking
face of Atene, who cried--"Bid her unveil, my lord. I swear to thee I'll
not be jealous."

At that taunt he took fire.

"Aye," he said, "I bid her unveil, that I may learn the best or worst,
who otherwise must die of this suspense. Howsoever changed, if she be
Ayesha I shall know her, and if she be Ayesha, I shall love her."

"Bold words, Kallikrates," answered the Hesea; "yet from my very heart I
thank thee for them: those sweet words of trust and faithfulness to thou
knowest not what. Learn now the truth, for I may keep naught back from
thee. When I unveil it is decreed that thou must make thy choice for
the last time on this earth between yonder woman, my rival from the
beginning, and that Ayesha to whom thou art sworn. Thou canst reject me
if thou wilt, and no ill shall come to thee, but many a blessing, as
men reckon them--power and wealth and love. Only then thou must tear my
memory from thy heart, for then I leave thee to follow thy fate alone,
till at the last the purpose of these deeds and sufferings is made
clear.

"Be warned. No light ordeal lies before thee. Be warned. I can promise
thee naught save such love as woman never gave to man, love that
perchance--I know not--must yet remain unsatisfied upon the earth."

Then she turned to me and said:

"Oh! thou, Holly, thou true friend, thou guardian from of old, thou,
next to him most beloved by me, to thy clear and innocent spirit
perchance wisdom may be given that is denied to us, the little children
whom thine arms protect. Counsel thou him, my Holly, with the counsel
that is given thee, and I will obey thy words and his, and, whatever
befalls, will bless thee from my soul. Aye, and should he cast me off,
then in the Land beyond the lands, in the Star appointed, where all
earthly passions fade, together will we dwell eternally in a friendship
glorious, thou and I alone.

"For _thou_ wilt not reject; thy steel, forged in the furnace of pure
truth and power, shall not lose its temper in these small fires of
temptation and become a rusted chain to bind thee to another woman's
breast--until it canker to her heart and thine."

"Ayesha, I thank thee for thy words," I answered simply, "and by them
and that promise of thine, I, thy poor friend--for more I never thought
to be--am a thousandfold repaid for many sufferings. This I will add,
that for my part I know that thou art She whom we have lost, since,
whatever the lips that speak them, those thoughts and words are Ayesha's
and hers alone."

Thus I spoke, not knowing what else to say, for I was filled with a
great joy, a calm and ineffable satisfaction, which broke thus feebly
from my heart. For now I knew that I was dear to Ayesha as I had always
been dear to Leo; the closest of friends, from whom she never would be
parted. What more could I desire?

We fell back; we spoke together, whilst they watched us silently. What
we said I do not quite remember, but the end of it was that, as the
Hesea had done, Leo bade me judge and choose. Then into my mind there
came a clear command, from my own conscience or otherwhere, who can
say? This was the command, that I should bid her to unveil, and let fate
declare its purposes.

"Decide," said Leo, "I cannot bear much more. Like that woman, whoever
she may be, whatever happens, I will not blame you, Horace."

"Good," I answered, "I have decided," and, stepping forward, I said: "We
have taken counsel, Hes, and it is our will, who would learn the truth
and be at rest, that thou shouldst unveil before us, here and now."

"I hear and obey," the Priestess answered, in a voice like to that of a
dying woman, "only, I beseech you both, be pitiful to me, spare me your
mockeries; add not the coals of your hate and scorn to the fires of a
soul in hell, for whate'er I am, I became it for thy sake, Kallikrates.
Yet, yet I also am athirst for knowledge; for though I know all wisdom,
although I wield much power, one thing remains to me to learn--what is
the worth of the love of man, and if, indeed, it can live beyond the
horrors of the grave?"

Then, rising slowly, the Hesea walked, or rather tottered to the
unroofed open space in front of the rock chamber, and stood there quite
near to the brink of the flaming gulf beneath.

"Come hither, Papave, and loose these veils," she cried in a shrill,
thin voice.

Papave advanced, and with a look of awe upon her handsome face began the
task. She was not a tall woman, yet as she bent over her I noted that
she seemed to tower above her mistress, the Hesea.

The outer veils fell revealing more within. These fell also, and now
before us stood the mummy-like shape, although it seemed to be of less
stature, of that strange being who had met us in the Place of Bones. So
it would seem that our mysterious guide and the high priestess Hes were
the same.

Look! Length by length the wrappings sank from her. Would they
never end? How small grew the frame within? She was very short now,
unnaturally short for a full-grown woman, and oh! I grew sick at heart.
The last bandages uncoiled themselves like shavings from a stick;
two wrinkled hands appeared, if hands they could be called. Then the
feet--once I had seen such on the mummy of a princess of Egypt, and even
now by some fantastic play of the mind, I remembered that on her coffin
this princess was named "The Beautiful."

Everything was gone now, except a shift and a last inner veil about the
head. Hes waved back the priestess Papave, who fell half fainting to
the ground and lay there covering her eyes with her hand. Then uttering
something like a scream she gripped this veil in her thin talons, tore
it away, and with a gesture of uttermost despair, turned and faced us.

Oh! she was--nay, I will not describe her. I knew her at once, for thus
had I seen her last before the Fire of Life, and, strangely enough,
through the mask of unutterable age, through that cloak of humanity's
last decay, still shone some resemblance to the glorious and superhuman
Ayesha: the shape of the face, the air of defiant pride that for an
instant bore her up--I know not what.

Yes, there she stood, and the fierce light of the heartless fires beat
upon her, revealing every shame.

There was a dreadful silence. I saw Leo's lips turn white and his knees
begin to give; but by some effort he recovered himself, and stayed still
and upright like a dead man held by a wire. Also I saw Atene--and this
is to her credit--turn her head away. She had desired to see her rival
humiliated, but that horrible sight shocked her; some sense of their
common womanhood for the moment touched her pity. Only Simbri, who, I
think, knew what to expect, and Oros remained quite unmoved; indeed, in
that ghastly silence the latter spoke, and ever afterwards I loved him
for his words.

"What of the vile vessel, rotted in the grave of time? What of the flesh
that perishes?" he said. "Look through the ruined lamp to the eternal
light which burns within. Look through its covering carrion to the
inextinguishable soul."

My heart applauded these noble sentiments. I was of one mind with Oros,
but oh, Heaven! I felt that my brain was going, and I wished that it
would go, so that I might hear and see no more.

That look which gathered on Ayesha's mummy face? At first there had been
a little hope, but the hope died, and anguish, anguish, _anguish_ took
its place.

Something must be done, this could not endure. My lips clave together,
no word would come; my feet refused to move.

I began to contemplate the scenery. How wonderful were that sheet of
flame, and the ripples which ran up and down its height. How awesome its
billowy crest. It would be warm lying in yonder red gulf below with the
dead Rassen, but oh! I wished that I shared his bed and had finished
with these agonies.

Thank Heaven, Atene was speaking. She had stepped to the side of the
naked-headed Thing, and stood by it in all the pride of her rich beauty
and perfect womanhood.

"Leo Vincey, or Kallikrates," said Atene, "take which name thou wilt;
thou thinkest ill of me perhaps, but know that at least I scorn to mock
a rival in her mortal shame. She told us a wild tale but now, a tale
true or false, but more false than true, I think, of how I robbed
a goddess of a votary, and of how that goddess--Ayesha's self
perchance--was avenged upon me for the crime of yielding to the man I
loved. Well, let goddesses--if such indeed there be--take their way and
work their will upon the helpless, and I, a mortal, will take mine
until the clutch of doom closes round my throat and chokes out life and
memory, and I too am a goddess--or a clod.

"Meanwhile, thou man, I shame not to say it before all these witnesses,
I love thee, and it seems that this--this woman or goddess--loves thee
also, and she has told us that now, _now_ thou must choose between us
once and for ever. She has told us too that if I sinned against Isis,
whose minister be it remembered she declares herself, herself she sinned
yet more. For she would have taken thee both from a heavenly mistress
and from an earthly bride, and yet snatch that guerdon of immortality
which is hers to-day. Therefore if I am evil, she is worse, nor does the
flame that burns within the casket whereof Oros spoke shine so very pure
and bright.

"Choose thou then Leo Vincey, and let there be an end. I vaunt not
myself; thou knowest what I have been and seest what I am. Yet I can
give thee love and happiness and, mayhap, children to follow after thee,
and with them some place and power. What yonder witch can give thee thou
canst guess. Tales of the past, pictures on the flame, wise maxims and
honeyed words, and after thou art dead once more, promises perhaps, of
joy to come when that terrible goddess whom she serves so closely shall
be appeased. I have spoken. Yet I will add a word:

"O thou for whom, if the Hesea's tale be true, I did once lay down my
royal rank and dare the dangers of an unsailed sea; O thou whom in ages
gone I would have sheltered with my frail body from the sorceries of
this cold, self-seeking witch; O thou whom but a little while ago at my
own life's risk I drew from death in yonder river, choose, choose!"

To all this speech, so moderate yet so cruel, so well-reasoned and
yet so false, because of its glosses and omissions, the huddled Ayesha
seemed to listen with a fierce intentness. Yet she made no answer, not
a single word, not a sign even; she who had said her say and scorned to
plead her part.

I looked at Leo's ashen face. He leaned towards Atene, drawn perhaps by
the passion shining in her beauteous eyes, then of a sudden straightened
himself, shook his head and sighed. The colour flamed to his brow, and
his eyes grew almost happy.

"After all," he said, thinking aloud rather than speaking, "I have to do
not with unknowable pasts or with mystic futures, but with the things
of my own life. Ayesha waited for me through two thousand years; Atene
could marry a man she hated for power's sake, and then could poison him,
as perhaps she would poison me when I wearied her. I know not what oaths
I swore to Amenartas, if such a woman lived. I remember the oaths I
swore to Ayesha. If I shrink from her now, why then my life is a lie and
my belief a fraud; then love will not endure the touch of age and never
can survive the grave.

"Nay, remembering what Ayesha was I take her as she is, in faith and
hope of what she shall be. At least love is immortal and if it must, why
let it feed on memory alone till death sets free the soul."

Then stepping to where stood the dreadful, shrivelled form, Leo knelt
down before it and kissed her on the brow.

Yes, he kissed the trembling horror of that wrinkled head, and I think
it was one of the greatest, bravest acts ever done by man.

"Thou hast chosen," said Atene in a cold voice, "and I tell thee, Leo
Vincey, that the manner of thy choice makes me mourn my loss the more.
Take now thy--thy bride and let me hence."

But Ayesha still said no word and made no sign, till presently she sank
upon her bony knees and began to pray aloud. These were the words of
her prayer, as I heard them, though the exact Power to which it was
addressed is not very easy to determine, as I never discovered who or
what it was that she worshipped in her heart--"O Thou minister of the
almighty Will, thou sharp sword in the hand of Doom, thou inevitable Law
that art named Nature; thou who wast crowned as Isis of the Egyptians,
but art the goddess of all climes and ages; thou that leadest the man
to the maid, and layest the infant on his mother's breast, that bringest
our dust to its kindred dust, that givest life to death, and into the
dark of death breathest the light of life again; thou who causest the
abundant earth to bear, whose smile is Spring, whose laugh is the ripple
of the sea, whose noontide rest is drowsy Summer, and whose sleep is
Winter's night, hear thou the supplication of thy chosen child and
minister:

"Of old thou gavest me thine own strength with deathless days, and
beauty above every daughter of this Star. But I sinned against thee
sore, and for my sin I paid in endless centuries of solitude, in the
vileness that makes me loathsome to my lover's eyes, and for its diadem
of perfect power sets upon my brow this crown of naked mockery. Yet in
thy breath, the swift essence that brought me light, that brought me
gloom, thou didst vow to me that I who cannot die should once more pluck
the lost flower of my immortal loveliness from this foul slime of shame.

"Therefore, merciful Mother that bore me, to thee I make my prayer.
Oh, let his true love atone my sin; or, if it may not be, then give me
death, the last and most blessed of thy boons!"


CHAPTER XVI

THE CHANGE

She ceased, and there was a long, long silence. Leo and I looked at
each other in dismay. We had hoped against hope that this beautiful
and piteous prayer, addressed apparently to the great, dumb spirit of
Nature, would be answered. That meant a miracle, but what of it? The
prolongation of the life of Ayesha was a miracle, though it is true that
some humble reptiles are said to live as long as she had done.

The transference of her spirit from the Caves of Kor to this temple was
a miracle, that is, to our western minds, though the dwellers in these
parts of Central Asia would not hold it so. That she should re-appear
with the same hideous body was a miracle. But was it the same body? Was
it not the body of the last Hesea? One very ancient woman is much like
another, and eighteen years of the working of the soul or identity
within might well wear away their trivial differences and give to the
borrowed form some resemblance to that which it had left.

At least the figures on that mirror of the flame were a miracle. Nay,
why so? A hundred clairvoyants in a hundred cities can produce or see
their like in water and in crystal, the difference being only one
of size. They were but reflections of scenes familiar to the mind of
Ayesha, or perhaps not so much as that. Perhaps they were only phantasms
called up in _our_ minds by her mesmeric force.

Nay, none of these things were true miracles, since all, however
strange, might be capable of explanation. What right then had we to
expect a marvel now?

Such thoughts as these rose in our minds as the endless minutes were
born and died and--nothing happened.

Yes, at last one thing did happen. The light from the sheet of flame
died gradually away as the flame itself sank downwards into the abysses
of the pit. But about this in itself there was nothing wonderful, for
as we had seen with our own eyes from afar this fire varied much, and
indeed it was customary for it to die down at the approach of dawn,
which now drew very near.

Still that onward-creeping darkness added to the terrors of the scene.
By the last rays of the lurid light we saw Ayesha rise and advance some
few paces to that little tongue of rock at the edge of the pit off
which the body of Rassen had been hurled; saw her standing on it, also,
looking like some black, misshapen imp against the smoky glow which
still rose from the depths beneath.

Leo would have gone forward to her, for he believed that she was about
to hurl herself to doom, which indeed I thought was her design. But the
priest Oros, and the priestess Papave, obeying, I suppose, some secret
command that reached them I know not how, sprang to him and seizing his
arms, held him back. Then it became quite dark, and through the darkness
we could hear Ayesha chanting a dirge-like hymn in some secret, holy
tongue which was unknown to us.

A great flake of fire floated through the gloom, rocking to and fro like
some vast bird upon its pinions. We had seen many such that night, torn
by the gale from the crest of the blazing curtain as I have described.
But--but--"Horace," whispered Leo through his chattering teeth, "that
flame is coming up _against the wind!_"

"Perhaps the wind has changed," I answered, though I knew well that it
had not; that it blew stronger than ever from the south.

Nearer and nearer sailed the rocking flame, two enormous wings was the
shape of it, with something dark between them. It reached the little
promontory. The wings appeared to fold themselves about the dwarfed
figure that stood thereon--illuminating it for a moment. Then the light
went out of them and they vanished--everything vanished.

A while passed, it may have been one minute or ten, when suddenly the
priestess Papave, in obedience to some summons which we could not hear,
crept by me. I knew that it was she because her woman's garments touched
me as she went. Another space of silence and of deep darkness, during
which I heard Papave return, breathing in short, sobbing gasps like one
who is very frightened.

Ah! I thought, Ayesha has cast herself into the pit. The tragedy is
finished!

Then it was that the wondrous music came. Of course it _may_ have been
only the sound of priests chanting beyond us, but I do not think so,
since its quality was quite different to any that I heard in the temple
before or afterwards: to any indeed that ever I heard upon the earth.

I cannot describe it, but it was awful to listen to, yet most
entrancing. From the black, smoke-veiled pit where the fire had burned
it welled and echoed--now a single heavenly voice, now a sweet chorus,
and now an air-shaking thunder as of a hundred organs played to time.

That diverse and majestic harmony seemed to include, to express
every human emotion, and I have often thought since then that in its
all-embracing scope and range, this, the song or paean of her re-birth
was symbolical of the infinite variety of Ayesha's spirit. Yet like that
spirit it had its master notes; power, passion, suffering, mystery and
loveliness. Also there could be no doubt as to the general significance
of the chant by whomsoever it was sung. It was the changeful story of a
mighty soul; it was worship, worship, worship of a queen divine!

Like slow clouds of incense fading to the bannered roof of some high
choir, the bursts of unearthly melodies grew faint; in the far distance
of the hollow pit they wailed themselves away.

Look! from the east a single ray of upward-springing light.

"Behold the dawn," said the quiet voice of Oros.

That ray pierced the heavens above our heads, a very sword of flame. It
sank downwards, swiftly. Suddenly it fell, not upon us, for as yet
the rocky walls of our chamber warded it away, but on to the little
promontory at its edge.

Oh! and there--a Glory covered with a single garment--stood a shape
celestial. It seemed to be asleep, since the eyes were shut. Or was it
dead, for at first that face was a face of death? Look, the sunlight
played upon her, shining through the thin veil, the dark eyes opened
like the eyes of a wondering child; the blood of life flowed up the
ivory bosom into the pallid cheeks; the raiment of black and curling
tresses wavered in the wind; the head of the jewelled snake that held
them sparkled beneath her breast.

Was it an illusion, or was this Ayesha as she had been when she entered
the rolling flame in the caverns of Kor? Our knees gave way beneath us,
and down, our arms about each other's necks, Leo and I sank till we
lay upon the ground. Then a voice sweeter than honey, softer than the
whisper of a twilight breeze among the reeds, spoke near to us, and
these were the words it said--"_Come hither to me, Kallikrates, who
would pay thee back that redeeming kiss of faith and love thou gavest me
but now!_"

Leo struggled to his feet. Like a drunken man he staggered to where
Ayesha stood, then overcome, sank before her on his knees.

"Arise," she said, "it is I who should kneel to thee," and she stretched
out her hand to raise him, whispering in his ear the while.

Still he would not, or could not rise, so very slowly she bent over him
and touched him with her lips upon the brow. Next she beckoned to me. I
came and would have knelt also, but she suffered it not.

"Nay," she said, in her rich, remembered voice, "thou art no suitor; it
shall not be. Of lovers and worshippers henceforth as before, I can find
a plenty if I will, or even if I will it not. But where shall I find
another friend like to thee, O Holly, whom thus I greet?" and leaning
towards me, with her lips she touched me also on the brow--just touched
me, and no more.

Fragrant was Ayesha's breath as roses, the odour of roses clung to her
lovely hair; her sweet body gleamed like some white sea-pearl; a faint
but palpable radiance crowned her head; no sculptor ever fashioned such
a marvel as the arm with which she held her veil about her; no stars in
heaven ever shone more purely bright than did her calm, entranced eyes.

Yet it is true, even with her lips upon me, all I felt for her was a
love divine into which no human passion entered. Once, I acknowledge to
my shame, it was otherwise, but I am an old man now and have done with
such frailties. Moreover, had not Ayesha named me Guardian, Protector,
Friend, and sworn to me that with her and Leo I should ever dwell where
all earthly passions fail. I repeat: what more could I desire?

Taking Leo by the hand Ayesha returned with him into the shelter of the
rock-hewn chamber and when she entered its shadows, shivered a little as
though with cold. I rejoiced at this I remember, for it seemed to show
me that she still was human, divine as she might appear. Here her priest
and priestess prostrated themselves before her new-born splendour, but
she motioned to them to rise, laying a hand upon the head of each as
though in blessing. "I am cold," she said, "give me my mantle," and
Papave threw the purple-broidered garment upon her shoulders, whence now
it hung royally, like a coronation robe.

"Nay," she went on, "it is not this long-lost shape of mine, which in
his kiss my lord gave back to me, that shivers in the icy wind, it is my
spirit's self bared to the bitter breath of Destiny. O my love, my
love, offended Powers are not easily appeased, even when they appear to
pardon, and though I shall no more be made a mockery in thy sight, how
long is given us together upon the world I know not; but a little hour
perchance. Well, ere we pass otherwhere, we will make it glorious,
drinking as deeply of the cup of joy as we have drunk of those of
sorrows and of shame. This place is hateful to me, for here I have
suffered more than ever woman did on earth or phantom in the deepest
hell. It is hateful, it is ill-omened. I pray that never again may I
behold it.

"Say, what is it passes in thy mind, magician?" and of a sudden she
turned fiercely upon the Shaman Simbri who stood near, his arms crossed
upon his breast.

"Only, thou Beautiful," he answered, "a dim shadow of things to come. I
have what thou dost lack with all thy wisdom, the gift of foresight, and
here I see a dead man lying----"

"Another word," she broke in with fury born of some dark fear, "and thou
shalt be that man. Fool, put me not in mind that now I have strength
again to rid me of the ancient foes I hate, lest I should use a sword
thou thrustest to my hand," and her eyes that had been so calm and
happy, blazed upon him like fire.

The old wizard felt their fearsome might and shrank from it till the
wall stayed him.

"Great One! now as ever I salute thee. Yes, now as at the first
beginning whereof we know alone," he stammered. "I had no more to say;
the face of that dead man was not revealed to me. I saw only that some
crowned Khan of Kaloon to be shall lie here, as he whom the flame has
taken lay an hour ago."

"Doubtless many a Khan of Kaloon will lie here," she answered coldly.
"Fear not, Shaman, my wrath is past, yet be wise, mine enemy, and
prophesy no more evil to the great. Come, let us hence."

So, still led by Leo, she passed from that chamber and stood presently
upon the apex of the soaring pillar. The sun was up now, flooding the
Mountain flanks, the plains of Kaloon far beneath and the distant,
misty peaks with a sheen of gold. Ayesha stood considering the mighty
prospect, then addressing Leo, she said--"The world is very fair; I give
it all to thee."

Now Atene spoke for the first time.

"Dost thou mean Hes--if thou art still the Hesea and not a demon
arisen from the Pit--that thou offerest my territories to this man as a
love-gift? If so, I tell thee that first thou must conquer them."

"Ungentle are thy words and mien," answered Ayesha, "yet I forgive them
both, for I also can scorn to mock a rival in my hour of victory. When
thou wast the fairer, thou didst proffer him these very lands, but say,
who is the fairer now? Look at us, all of you, and judge," and she stood
by Atene and smiled.

The Khania was a lovely woman. Never to my knowledge have I seen one
lovelier, but oh! how coarse and poor she showed beside the wild,
ethereal beauty of Ayesha born again. For that beauty was not altogether
human, far less so indeed than it had been in the Caves of Kor; now it
was the beauty of a spirit.

The little light that always shone upon Ayesha's brow; the wide-set,
maddening eyes which were filled sometimes with the fire of the stars
and sometimes with the blue darkness of the heavens wherein they float;
the curved lips, so wistful yet so proud; the tresses fine as glossy
silk that still spread and rippled as though with a separate life; the
general air, not so much of majesty as of some secret power hard to
be restrained, which strove in that delicate body and proclaimed its
presence to the most careless; that flame of the soul within whereof
Oros had spoken, shining now through no "vile vessel," but in a vase
of alabaster and of pearl--none of these things and qualities were
altogether human. I felt it and was afraid, and Atene felt it also, for
she answered--"I am but a woman. What thou art, thou knowest best. Still
a taper cannot shine midst yonder fires or a glow-worm against a fallen
star; nor can my mortal flesh compare with the glory thou hast earned
from hell in payment for thy gifts and homage to the lord of ill. Yet as
woman I am thy equal, and as spirit I shall be thy mistress, when robbed
of these borrowed beauties thou, Ayesha, standest naked and ashamed
before the Judge of all whom thou hast deserted and defied; yes, as thou
stoodest but now upon yonder brink above the burning pit where thou yet
shalt wander wailing thy lost love. For this I know, mine enemy, that
_man and spirit cannot mate_," and Atene ceased, choking in her bitter
rage and jealousy.

Now watching Ayesha, I saw her wince a little beneath these evil-omened
words, saw also a tinge of grey touch the carmine of her lips and her
deep eyes grow dark and troubled. But in a moment her fears had gone and
she was asking in a voice that rang clear as silver bells--"Why ravest
thou, Atene, like some short-lived summer torrent against the barrier
of a seamless cliff? Dost think, poor creature of an hour, to sweep away
the rock of my eternal strength with foam and bursting bubbles? Have
done and listen. I do not seek thy petty rule, who, if I will it, can
take the empire of the world. Yet learn, thou holdest it of my hand.
More--I purpose soon to visit thee in thy city--choose thou if it shall
be in peace or war! Therefore, Khania, purge thy court and amend thy
laws, that when I come I may find contentment in the land which now it
lacks, and confirm thee in thy government. My counsel to thee also is
that thou choose some worthy man to husband, let him be whom thou wilt,
if only he is just and upright and one upon whom thou mayest rest,
needing wise guidance as thou dost, Atene. Come, now, my guests, let
us hence," and she walked past the Khania, stepping fearlessly upon the
very edge of the wind-swept, rounded peak.

In a second the attempt had been made and failed, so quickly indeed that
it was not until Leo and I compared our impressions afterwards that we
could be sure of what had happened. As Ayesha passed her, the maddened
Khania drew a hidden dagger and struck with all her force at her rival's
back. I saw the knife vanish to the hilt in her body, as I thought, but
this cannot have been so since it fell to the ground, and she who should
have been dead, took no hurt at all.

Feeling that she had failed, with a movement like the sudden lurch of
a ship, Atene thrust at Ayesha, proposing to hurl her to destruction
in the depths beneath. Lo! her outstretched arms went past her although
Ayesha never seemed to stir. Yes it was Atene who would have fallen,
Atene who already fell, had not Ayesha put out her hand and caught
her by the wrist, bearing all her backward-swaying weight as easily as
though she were but an infant, and without effort drawing her to safety.

"Foolish woman!" she said in pitying tones. "Wast thou so vexed that
thou wouldst strip thyself of the pleasant shape which heaven has
given thee? Surely this is madness, Atene, for how knowest thou in what
likeness thou mightest be sent to tread the earth again? As no queen
perhaps, but as a peasant's child, deformed, unsightly; for such reward,
it is said, is given to those that achieve self-murder. Or even, as many
think, shaped like a beast--a snake, a cat, a tigress! Why, see," and
she picked the dagger from the ground and cast it into the air, "that
point was poisoned. Had it but pricked thee now!" and she smiled at her
and shook her head.

But Atene could bear no more of this mockery, more venomed than her own
steel.

"Thou art not mortal," she wailed. "How can I prevail against thee? To
Heaven I leave thy punishment," and there upon the rocky peak Atene sank
down and wept.

Leo stood nearest to her, and the sight of this royal woman in her
misery proved too much for him to bear. Stepping to her side he stooped
and lifted her to her feet, muttering some kind words. For a moment she
rested on his arm, then shook herself free of him and took the proffered
hand of her old uncle Simbri.

"I see," said Ayesha, "that as ever, thou art courteous, my lord Leo,
but it is best that her own servant should take charge of her, for--she
may hide more daggers. Come, the day grows, and surely we need rest."


CHAPTER XVII

THE BETROTHAL

Together we descended the multitudinous steps and passed the endless,
rock-hewn passages till we came to the door of the dwelling of the
high-priestess and were led through it into a hall beyond. Here Ayesha
parted from us saying that she was outworn, as indeed she seemed to be
with an utter weariness, not of the body, but of the spirit. For her
delicate form drooped like a rain-laden lily, her eyes grew dim as those
of a person in a trance, and her voice came in a soft, sweet whisper,
the voice of one speaking in her sleep.

"Good-bye," she said to us. "Oros will guard you both, and lead you to
me at the appointed time. Rest you well."

So she went and the priest led us into a beautiful apartment that opened
on to a sheltered garden. So overcome were we also by all that we had
endured and seen, that we could scarcely speak, much less discuss these
marvellous events.

"My brain swims," said Leo to Oros, "I desire to sleep."

He bowed and conducted us to a chamber where were beds, and on these we
flung ourselves down and slept, dreamlessly, like little children.

When we awoke it was afternoon. We rose and bathed, then saying that
we wished to be alone, went together into the garden where even at
this altitude, now, at the end of August, the air was still mild and
pleasant. Behind a rock by a bed of campanulas and other mountain
flowers and ferns, was a bench near to the banks of a little stream, on
which we seated ourselves.

"What have you to say, Horace?" asked Leo laying his hand upon my arm.

"Say?" I answered. "That things have come about most marvellously; that
we have dreamed aright and laboured not in vain; that you are the most
fortunate of men and should be the most happy."

He looked at me somewhat strangely, and answered--"Yes, of course;
she is lovely, is she not--but," and his voice dropped to its lowest
whisper, "I wish, Horace, that Ayesha were a little more human, even as
human as she was in the Caves of Kor. I don't think she is quite flesh
and blood, I felt it when she kissed me--if you can call it a kiss--for
she barely touched my hair. Indeed how can she be who changed thus in an
hour? Flesh and blood are not born of flame, Horace."

"Are you sure that she was so born?" I asked. "Like the visions on the
fire, may not that hideous shape have been but an illusion of our minds?
May she not be still the same Ayesha whom we knew in Kor, not re-born,
but wafted hither by some mysterious agency?"

"Perhaps. Horace, we do not know--I think that we shall never know.
But I admit that to me the thing is terrifying. I am drawn to her by
an infinite attraction, her eyes set my blood on fire, the touch of her
hand is as that of a wand of madness laid upon my brain. And yet between
us there is some wall, invisible, still present. Or perhaps it is only
fancy. But, Horace, I think that she is afraid of Atene. Why, in the
old days the Khania would have been dead and forgotten in an hour--you
remember Ustane?"

"Perhaps she may have grown more gentle, Leo, who, like ourselves, has
learned hard lessons."

"Yes," he answered, "I hope that is so. At any rate she has grown more
divine--only, Horace, what kind of a husband shall I be for that bright
being, if ever I get so far?"

"Why should you not get so far?" I asked angrily, for his words jarred
upon my tense nerves.

"I don't know," he answered, "but on general principles do you think
that such fortune will be allowed to a man? Also, what did Atene mean
when she said that man and spirit cannot mate--and--other things?"

"She meant that she _hoped_ they could not, I imagine, and, Leo, it is
useless to trouble yourself with forebodings that are more fitted to my
years than yours, and probably are based on nothing. Be a philosopher,
Leo. You have striven by wonderful ways such as are unknown in the
history of the world; you have attained. Take the goods the gods provide
you--the glory, the love and the power--and let the future look to
itself."

Before he could answer Oros appeared from round the rock, and, bowing
with more than his usual humility to Leo, said that the Hesea desired
our presence at a service in the Sanctuary. Rejoiced at the prospect
of seeing her again before he had hoped to do so, Leo sprang up and we
accompanied him back to our apartment.

Here priests were waiting, who, somewhat against his will, trimmed his
hair and beard, and would have done the same for me had I not refused
their offices. Then they placed gold-embroidered sandals on our feet and
wrapped Leo in a magnificent, white robe, also richly worked with gold
and purple; a somewhat similar robe but of less ornate design being
given to me. Lastly, a silver sceptre was thrust into his hand and into
mine a plain wand. This sceptre was shaped like a crook, and the sight
of it gave me some clue to the nature of the forthcoming ceremony.

"The crook of Osiris!" I whispered to Leo.

"Look here," he answered, "I don't want to impersonate any Egyptian god,
or to be mixed up in their heathen idolatries; in fact, I won't."

"Better go through with it," I suggested, "probably it is only something
symbolical."

But Leo, who, notwithstanding the strange circumstances connected with
his life, retained the religious principles in which I had educated him,
very strongly indeed, refused to move an inch until the nature of this
service was made clear to him. Indeed he expressed himself upon the
subject with vigour to Oros. At first the priest seemed puzzled what to
do, then explained that the forthcoming ceremony was one of betrothal.

On learning this Leo raised no further objections, asking only with some
nervousness whether the Khania would be present. Oros answered "No," as
she had already departed to Kaloon, vowing war and vengeance.

Then we were led through long passages, till finally we emerged into the
gallery immediately in front of the great wooden doors of the apse. At
our approach these swung open and we entered it, Oros going first, then
Leo, then myself, and following us, the procession of attendant priests.

As soon as our eyes became accustomed to the dazzling glare of the
flaming pillars, we saw that some great rite was in progress in the
temple, for in front of the divine statue of Motherhood, white-robed
and arranged in serried ranks, stood the company of the priests to
the number of over two hundred, and behind these the company of the
priestesses. Facing this congregation and a little in advance of the two
pillars of fire that flared on either side of the shrine, Ayesha herself
was seated in a raised chair so that she could be seen of all, while to
her right stood a similar chair of which I could guess the purpose.

She was unveiled and gorgeously apparelled, though save for the white
beneath, her robes were those of a queen rather than of a priestess.
About her radiant brow ran a narrow band of gold, whence rose the head
of a hooded asp cut out of a single, crimson jewel, beneath which in
endless profusion the glorious waving hair flowed down and around,
hiding even the folds of her purple cloak.

This cloak, opening in front, revealed an undertunic of white silk cut
low upon her bosom and kept in place by a golden girdle, a double-headed
snake, so like to that which She had worn in Kor that it might have been
the same. Her naked arms were bare of ornament, and in her right hand
she held the jewelled sistrum set with its gems and bells.

No empress could have looked more royal and no woman was ever half so
lovely, for to Ayesha's human beauty was added a spiritual glory,
her heritage alone. Seeing her we could see naught else. The rhythmic
movement of the bodies of the worshippers, the rolling grandeur of their
chant of welcome echoed from the mighty roof, the fearful torches of
living flame; all these things were lost on us. For there re-born,
enthroned, her arms stretched out in gracious welcome, sat that perfect
and immortal woman, the appointed bride of one of us, the friend and
lady of the other, her divine presence breathing power, mystery and
love.

On we marched between the ranks of hierophants, till Oros and the
priests left us and we stood alone face to face with Ayesha. Now she
lifted her sceptre and the chant ceased. In the midst of the following
silence, she rose from her seat and gliding down its steps, came to
where Leo stood and touched him on the forehead with her sistrum, crying
in a loud, sweet voice--"Behold the Chosen of the Hesea!" whereon all
that audience echoed in a shout of thunder--"Welcome to the Chosen of
the Hesea!"

Then while the echoes of that glad cry yet rang round the rocky walls,
Ayesha motioned to me to stand at her side, and taking Leo by the hand
drew him towards her, so that now he faced the white-robed company.
Holding him thus she began to speak in clear and silvery tones.

"Priests and priestesses of Hes, servants with her of the Mother of the
world, hear me. Now for the first time I appear among you as _I_ am, you
who heretofore have looked but on a hooded shape, not knowing its form
or fashion. Learn now the reason that I draw my veil. Ye see this man,
whom ye believed a stranger that with his companion had wandered to
our shrine. I tell you that he is no stranger; that of old, in lives
forgotten, he was my lord who now comes to seek his love again. Say, is
it not so, Kallikrates?"

"It is so," answered Leo.

"Priests and priestesses of Hes, as ye know, from the beginning it has
been the right and custom of her who holds my place to choose one to be
her lord. Is it not so?"

"It is so, O Hes," they answered.

She paused a while, then with a gesture of infinite sweetness turned to
Leo, bent towards him thrice and slowly sank upon her knee.

"Say thou," Ayesha said, looking up at him with her wondrous eyes, "say
before these here gathered, and all those witnesses whom thou canst not
see, dost thou again accept me as thy affianced bride?"

"Aye, Lady," he answered, in a deep but shaken voice, "now and for
ever."

Then while all watched, in the midst of a great silence, Ayesha rose,
cast down her sistrum sceptre that rang upon the rocky floor, and
stretched out her arms towards him.

Leo also bent towards her, and would have kissed her upon the lips. But
I who watched, saw his face grow white as it drew near to hers. While
the radiance crept from her brow to his, turning his bright hair to
gold, I saw also that this strong man trembled like a reed and seemed as
though he were about to fall.

I think that Ayesha noted it too, for ere ever their lips met, she
thrust him from her and again that grey mist of fear gathered on her
face.

In an instant it passed. She had slipped from him and with her hand held
his hand as though to support him. Thus they stood till his feet grew
firm and his strength returned.

Oros restored the sceptre to her, and lifting it she said--"O love and
lord, take thou the place prepared for thee, where thou shalt sit for
ever at my side, for with myself I give thee more than thou canst know
or than I will tell thee now. Mount thy throne, O Affianced of Hes, and
receive the worship of thy priests."

"Nay," he answered with a start as that word fell upon his ears. "Here
and now I say it once and for all. I am but a man who know nothing of
strange gods, their attributes and ceremonials. None shall bow the knee
to me and on earth, Ayesha, I bow mine to thee alone."

Now at this bold speech some of those who heard it looked astonished and
whispered to each other, while a voice called--"Beware, thou Chosen, of
the anger of the Mother!"

Again for a moment Ayesha looked afraid, then with a little laugh, swept
the thing aside, saying--"Surely with that I should be content. For me,
O Love, thy adoration for thee the betrothal song, no more."

So having no choice Leo mounted the throne, where notwithstanding his
splendid presence, enhanced as it was by those glittering robes, he
looked ill enough at ease, as indeed must any man of his faith and
race. Happily however, if some act of semi-idolatrous homage had been
proposed, Ayesha found a means to prevent its celebration, and soon all
such matters were forgotten both by the singers who sang, and us who
listened to the majestic chant that followed.

Of its words unfortunately we were able to understand but little, both
because of the volume of sound and of the secret, priestly language in
which it was given, though its general purport could not be mistaken.

The female voices began it, singing very low, and conveying a strange
impression of time and distance. Now followed bursts of gladness
alternating with melancholy chords suggesting sighs and tears and
sorrows long endured, and at the end a joyous, triumphant paean thrown
to and fro between the men and women singers, terminating in one
united chorus repeated again and again, louder and yet louder, till it
culminated in a veritable crash of melody, then of a sudden ceased.

Ayesha rose and waved her sceptre, whereon all the company bowed thrice,
then turned and breaking into some sweet, low chant that sounded like a
lullaby, marched, rank after rank, across the width of the Sanctuary and
through the carven doors which closed behind the last of them.

When all had gone, leaving us alone, save for the priest Oros and the
priestess Papave, who remained in attendance on their mistress, Ayesha,
who sat gazing before her with dreaming, empty eyes, seemed to awake,
for she rose and said--"A noble chant, is it not, and an ancient? It was
the wedding song of the feast of Isis and Osiris at Behbit in Egypt, and
there I heard it before ever I saw the darksome Caves of Kor. Often have
I observed, my Holly, that music lingers longer than aught else in this
changeful world, though it is rare that the very words should remain
unvaried. Come, beloved--tell me, by what name shall I call thee? Thou
art Kallikrates and yet----"

"Call me Leo, Ayesha," he answered, "as I was christened in the only
life of which I have any knowledge. This Kallikrates seems to have been
an unlucky man, and the deeds he did, if in truth he was aught other
than a tool in the hand of destiny, have bred no good to the inheritors
of his body--or his spirit, whichever it may be--or to those women with
whom his life was intertwined. Call me Leo, then, for of Kallikrates I
have had enough since that night when I looked upon the last of him in
Kor."

"Ah! I remember," she answered, "when thou sawest thyself lying in that
narrow bed, and I sang thee a song, did I not, of the past and of the
future? I can recall two lines of it; the rest I have forgotten--

     "'Onward, never weary, clad with splendour for a robe!
     Till accomplished be our fate, and the night is rushing down.'

"Yes, my Leo, now indeed we are 'clad with splendour for a robe,' and
now our fate draws near to its accomplishment. Then perchance will come
the down-rushing of the night;" and she sighed, looked up tenderly and
said, "See, I am talking to thee in Arabic. Hast thou forgotten it?"

"No."

"Then let it be our tongue, for I love it best of all, who lisped it at
my mother's knee. Now leave me here alone awhile; I would think. Also,"
she added thoughtfully, and speaking with a strange and impressive
inflexion of the voice, "there are some to whom I must give audience."

So we went, all of us, supposing that Ayesha was about to receive a
deputation of the Chiefs of the Mountain Tribes who came to felicitate
her upon her betrothal.


CHAPTER XVIII

THE THIRD ORDEAL

An hour, two hours passed, while we strove to rest in our sleeping
place, but could not, for some influence disturbed us.

"Why does not Ayesha come?" asked Leo at length, pausing in his walk up
and down the room. "I want to see her again; I cannot bear to be apart
from her. I feel as though she were drawing me to her."

"How can I tell you? Ask Oros; he is outside the door."

So he went and asked him, but Oros only smiled, and answered that the
Hesea had not entered her chamber, so doubtless she must still remain in
the Sanctuary.

"Then I am going to look for her. Come, Oros, and you too, Horace."

Oros bowed, but declined, saying that he was bidden to bide at our door,
adding that we, "to whom all the paths were open," could return to the
Sanctuary if we thought well.

"I do think well," replied Leo sharply. "Will you come, Horace, or shall
I go without you?"

I hesitated. The Sanctuary was a public place, it is true, but Ayesha
had said that she desired to be alone there for awhile. Without more
words, however, Leo shrugged his shoulders and started.

Exons of the Yeomen Yeomen of Exons of the Yeomen of the Guard. the
Guard. of the Guard.

Gentleman Harbinger of the Band of Gentlemen Pensioners.

Clerk of the Cheque Clerk of the Cheque to to the Yeomen of the Guard.
the Gentlemen Pensioners.

Yeomen of the Guard, to close the Procession.

As the procession entered the Hall, the fifes, drums, and trumpets
went to their gallery, and the several other persons composing it were
directed to their respective places by the officers of arms.

On entering the Hall, the barons of the Cinque Ports, bearing the canopy,
remained at the bottom of the steps. His Majesty ascended the elevated
platform, and retired in his chamber near the state.

The company at the table then sat down; and the barons of the Cinque Ports
carried away the canopy as their fee.

It is mentioned above that the several orders of knighthood returned
wearing their hats. This was the case until they got to the entrance
of Westminster Hall.

There all the knights of the Bath took off their hats, as did some of the
bishops and several other individuals who took part in the procession.
There were only two knights of the Garter who appeared in the full
dress of the order. These were his Royal Highness the Prince Leopold
and the Marquess of Londonderry. The noble marquess, as attired in his
robes, added very considerably to the splendour of the scene by
his graceful and elegant appearance.

His lordship's hat was encircled with a band of diamonds, which had a most
brilliant effect. As his Majesty passed up the Hall he was received
with loud and continued acclamations--the gentlemen waving their
hats, and the ladies their handkerchiefs: his Majesty seemed to feel
sensibly the enthusiasm with which he was greeted, and returned the
salutations with repeated bows to the assemblage on both sides.

The peers took their seats at the table appointed for them, and began
to partake of the banquet. During the interval between this and the
return of his Majesty, the greater part of the ladies and gentlemen who
had previously occupied the galleries retired for refreshments,
or descended into the Hall, which they promenaded for a considerable
time.

There were also a great number of persons admitted into the Hall, who
it was evident had not been in before. This occasioned some slight
inconvenience to those whose duty obliged them to be present. We
ought here to remark that the procession, on its return to the Hall,
was not conducted with any thing like the same regularity which
had distinguished its departure.

This was probably owing to the great fatigue which all the parties had
undergone, and to their consequent anxiety to get to their seats. Some
slight derangement was occasioned by the aldermen, who, either
from the cause just mentioned, or from a mistake with respect to
the regulations of the heralds, had no sooner got within the triumphal
arch, than they walked over to one of the tables, leaving several
of those behind who ought to have preceded them.

This trifling mistake was soon corrected by one of the heralds, who brought
the worthy magistrates back to their former station in the procession.

THE BANQUET.

Precisely at twenty minutes past five the lord great chamberlain
issued his orders that the centre of the Hall should be cleared.

This direction occasioned much confusion, not only because many
strangers had been allowed to enter the lower doors for the purpose
of surveying the general arrangements, but because those who had
tickets for the galleries had descended in considerable numbers to
the floor.

Lord Gwydyr was under the necessity of personally exerting his authority,
with considerable vehemence, in order to compel the attendants of
the earl-marshal to quit situations intended for persons more
immediately connected with the ceremony.

A long interval now occurred, during which the various officers,
and especially the heralds, made the necessary arrangements for the
nobility expected to return with his Majesty.

During this pause silence was generally preserved, in expectation
of the return of his Majesty from his chamber.

The entrance of the King was announced by one of the principal
heralds, who was followed into the Hall by the lord great chamberlain
and the Dukes of York, Clarence, Cambridge, Sussex, and Gloucester.
Prince Leopold had for some time previously been engaged in conversation
with some of the foreign ambassadors.

His Majesty returned in the robes with which he had been invested
in the Abbey, wearing also the same crown.

In his right hand he carried the sceptre, and in his left the orb,
which, on taking his seat on the throne, he delivered to two peers
stationed at his side for the purpose of receiving them.

The first course was then served up. It consisted of 24 gold covers and
dishes, carried by as many gentlemen pensioners: they were preceded
by six attendants on the clerk comptroller, by two clerks of the
kitchen, who received the dishes from the gentlemen pensioners,
by the clerk comptroller, in a velvet gown trimmed with silver lace,
by two clerks and the secretary of the Board of Green Cloth, by the
comptroller and treasurer of the household, and serjeants at arms
with their maces.

Before the dishes were placed upon the table by the two clerks of the
kitchen, the great doors at the bottom of the Hall were thrown open
to the sound of trumpets and clarionets, and the Duke of Wellington,
as lord high constable, the Marquis of Anglesey, as lord high
steward, and Lord Howard of Effingham, as deputy earl marshal,
entered upon the floor on horseback, remaining for some minutes under
the archway.

The Duke of Wellington was on the left of the King, the earl marshal
on the right, and the Marquess of Anglesey in the centre. The two
former were mounted on beautiful white horses gorgeously trapped, and
the latter on his favourite dun-coloured Arabian.

THE CHALLENGE.

Before the second course, the great gate was thrown open at the sound
of trumpets without. The deputy appointed to officiate as King's
Champion for the lord of the manor of Scrivelsby, in Lincolnshire,
entered the Hall on horseback, in a complete suit of bright armour,
between the lord high constable and deputy earl marshal, also on
horseback, preceded by--
Two Trumpeters, with the Champion's Arms on their Banners.

The Serjeant Trumpeter, with his Mace on his Shoulder.

Two Serjeants at Arms, with their Maces on their Shoulders.

The Champion's two Esquires, in half Armour, one on the right hand
bearing the Champion's Lance, the other on the left hand with the
Champion's Target, and the Arms of Dymoke depicted thereon.

A Herald, With a Paper in his hand containing the Challenge.

Then followed:--
The | The | The Deputy Earl Marshal, | CHAMPION, | Lord High
Constable, on Horseback, in | on Horseback, in a | in his Robes and
his Robes and Coronet,| complete suit of | Coronet, and Collar with
the Earl | bright Armour, with | of his Order, on Marshal's Staff
in | a Gauntlet in his | Horseback, with the his Hand, attended |
Hand, his Helmet on | Constable's Staff, attended by a Page. | his
Head, adorned | by two Pages.
| with a plume of |
| Feathers. |
Four Pages, richly apparelled, attendants on the Champion.

His helmet was of polished steel, surmounted by a full rich bending plume
of white ostrich feathers, next of light blue, next red, and lastly of
an erect black feather. He seemed rather pale in the face, which was of
a resolute cast, and ornamented with handsome mustachios.
He sat his horse with ease, and the appearance of great firmness,
which was no doubt in part attributable to the enormous weight under
which the noble animal that bore him seemed to bend.

His armour was extremely massive, and deeply lined and engraven:
no part of his body was uncovered; and even the broad circular
shoulder blades of the armour were so folded over the cuirass, that
in action the body could not but be completely defended at all
points.

The horse was very richly caparisoned, and wore in his headstall a
plume of varied feathers.
Nothing could exceed the impression produced by the approach of the
champion and his loyal array. Every fair bosom felt an indescribable
sensation of mingled surprise, pleasure, and apprehension. It seemed as
if they were impressed with a conviction that the defiance might not
prove an empty ceremony; that a trial as severe as that of Ivanhoe, in
the presence of his future sovereign at Ashby, might await the challenger;
and that the nobly-equipped champion before them might, nevertheless,
be as little elated by his success, or as faint and feeble when
he fell at the feet of sympathising beauty to claim the hard-earned
meed of glory.

For a moment the fast fading spirit of chivalry re-asserted itself
within those walls, over minds which the place and occasion had rendered
vividly susceptible of impressions connected with the records of
our earlier history.

At the entrance into the Hall the trumpets sounded thrice, and the
passage to the king's table being cleared by the knight marshal, the
herald, with a loud voice, proclaimed the champion's challenge in the
words following:--
If any person, of what degree soever, high or low, shall deny or
gainsay our Sovereign Lord GEORGE the Fourth of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, Son and next
Heir to our Sovereign Lord King GEORGE the Third, the last King,
deceased, to be right Heir to the Imperial Crown of this United
Kingdom, or that he ought not to enjoy the same, here is his Champion,
who saith that he lieth, and is a false traitor; being ready in
person to combat with him, and in this quarrel will adventure his
life against him on what day soever he shall be appointed.

The champion then threw down his iron glove or gauntlet; which, having
lain for a short time upon the ground, the herald took up, and delivered
again to the champion.

They then advanced to the middle of the Hall, where the ceremony was
again performed in the same manner.

Lastly, they advanced to the steps of the throne, where the herald
(and those who preceded him) ascending to the middle of the steps,
proclaimed the challenge in the like manner; when the champion,
having thrown down the gauntlet, and received it again from the
herald, made a low obeisance to the King, The peers had repeated,
as if with one voice, "God bless the King!

God save the King!"

which was accompanied by acclamations so loud through all parts of
the Hall, that it startled the horses of the champion and his noble
companions. Then the cupbearer, having received from the officer of
the Jewel-house a gold cup and cover filled with wine, presented the
same to the King, and his Majesty drank to the champion, and sent
to him by the cupbearer the said cup, which the champion (having
put on his gauntlet) received, and having made a low obeisance to
the King, drank off the wine; and in a loud articulate voice,
exclaimed, turning himself round, "Long life to his Majesty King
GEORGE the Fourth!"

This was followed by a peal of applause resembling thunder; after
which, making another low obeisance to his Majesty, and being
accompanied as before, he departed out of the Hall, taking with him
the said cup and cover as his fee, retiring with his face to his
Majesty, and backing his horse out of the Hall.

PROCLAMATION OF THE STYLES.

Immediately afterwards, Garter, attended by Clarenceux, Norroy,
Lyon, Ulster, and the rest of the kings and officers of arms,
proclaimed his Majesty's styles in Latin, French, and English, three
several times, first upon the uppermost step of the elevated platform,
next in the middle of the Hall; and, lastly, at the bottom of the
Hall, the officers of arms before each proclamation crying, "Largesse."

After each proclamation, the company shouted "God save the King!"
and the ladies waved their handkerchiefs and fans.

SECOND COURSE.

The second course was then served up with the same ceremony as the
first.

SERVICES IN PURSUANCE OF CLAIMS.

Then the lord of the manor of Nether Bilsington presented his Majesty
with three maple cups.

The office of chief butler of England was executed by the Duke of
Norfolk, as Earl of Arundel and lord of the manor of Keninghall, who
received a gold basin and ewer as his fee.

Dinner being concluded, the lord mayor and twelve principal citizens of
London, as assistants to the chief butler of England, accompanied by
the King's cupbearer and assistant, presented to his Majesty wine in a
gold cup; and the King having drunk thereof, returned the gold cup
to the lord mayor as his fee.

The mayor of Oxford, with the eight other burgesses of that city, as
assistants to the lord mayor and citizens of London, as assistant to the
chief butler of England in the office of butler, was conducted to
his Majesty, preceded by the King's cupbearer, and having presented
to the King a bowl of wine, received the three maple cups for his
fee.

The lord of the manor of Lyston, pursuant to his claim, then brought up a
charger of wafers to his Majesty's table.

The Duke of Athol, as lord of the Isle of Man, presented his Majesty with
two falcons. Considerable curiosity was excited by the presentment of
these beautiful birds, which sat perfectly tame on the arm of his grace,
completely hooded, and furnished with bells.

The Duke of Montrose, as master of the horse to the King, performed
the office of serjeant of the silver scullery.

The lord of the barony of Bedford performed the office of almoner; and
the office of chief larderer was performed by the deputy of the Earl of
Abergavenny.

After the dessert was served up, the King's health was announced by the
peers, and drank by them and the whole of the persons in the Hall standing,
with three times three. The lord chancellor, overpowered by his feelings
on this propitious occasion, rose, and said it was usual to drink the
health of a subject with three times three, and he thought that his
subjects ought to drink the Sovereign's health with nine times nine.
The choir and additional singers had now been brought forward in
front of the knights commanders, and the national anthem of "God
save the King" was sung with incomparable effect.

The Duke of Norfolk then said, "The King thanks his peers for drinking his
health: he does them the honour to drink their health and that of his
good people." His Majesty rose, and bowing three times to various parts
of the immense concourse--

----"The abstract of his kingdom,"
he drank the health of all present. It was succeeded by long and
continued shouts from all present, during which the King resumed his
seat on his throne.

The King quitted the Hall at a quarter before eight o'clock; afterwards
the company was indiscriminately admitted to partake of such refreshments
as remained on the tables of the peers.

During Tuesday and Wednesday night, in order that no unnecessary
interruption might be experienced in the public thoroughfares during the
daytime, the workmen under the direction of the Board of Works were
busily engaged in raising barriers at different points that commanded
the streets and passes leading to Westminster Hall and Abbey. From
Charing Cross, a stout barrier was placed (about fifteen feet from
the pavement) to Parliament Street, so that the fullest possible
room, about twenty feet in width, should be secured for persons
having tickets of admission to the Hall, the Abbey, or the Coronation
Galleries.

And a still stronger barrier was raised along the centre of Parliament
Street, one side only being appropriated to carriages going towards the
scene of universal attraction.

Across Bridge Street, as well as in King Street, and the neighbouring
thoroughfares, all the carriage entrances were wholly blockaded; thus
securing the most commodious means to persons proceeding on foot
to the different places for which they possessed admission tickets. At
all these points were stationed constables, supported by parties of
military; and at the several passes were placed experienced individuals
who had been instructed in their various duties during several days by
Mr. Jackson and others, in the long chambers of the House of Lords,
&c.

They examined the tickets and the pretensions of the several persons
applying to pass on to the Abbey, Hall, houses, or galleries.--Still
more effectually to qualify them for this duty, they were previously
made acquainted with the mode in which the various tickets of the
lord great chamberlain (Lord Gwydyr) for the Hall, and the earl
marshal of England (Lord Howard, of Effingham, acting deputy), were
prepared, signed, and superscribed.

--They were also provided with good general means of judging of the
authenticity of cards for the different galleries; and even to be
guarded against imposture, there was further authority to keep all
the several parties in motion, till they arrived at their respective
destinations. Thus, every arrangement was made to accomplish the great
advantage of clear roads and facilities of approach; and the regulations
adopted at those points, passes, and barriers already noticed, were
provided at the other stations.

All the arrangements were finally made on Wednesday night. The high
bailiff of Westminster (A. Morris, Esq.), the high constable (Mr. Lee),
and the several magistrates of the different Police Offices, Sir Robert
Baker, Mr. Birnie, Mr. Mainwaring, Mr. Raynsford, Mr. Markland, &c.
under the advice, and with the approbation of Lord Sidmouth, agreed upon
and adopted at the office of the home secretary of state, a plan
of general and particular operations.

Each magistrate had his different station allotted to him, with a
specified number of the police officers to attend his commands, and
enforce his instructions.

Besides the precautions taken in the several streets, and at the
various thoroughfares, as already described, arrangements of a
similar character were adopted at the several approaches from the
river Thames.

In the course of the night, the stairs, landing-places, roads from
wharfs, &c., along the Westminster side of the banks of the Thames,
were closed, with parties to command them, from the Hungerford to the
Horseferry stairs. Some exceptions were made regarding the stairs
at Whitehall, by Lord Liverpool's house, and a temporary landing-place
formed in the course of Wednesday, at the lower end of the speaker's
garden, for the accommodation of the treasury and ordnance barges,
conveying certain great officers of state, some parties of peeresses,
&c., as well as the barges of the lord mayor, aldermen, sheriffs,
and twelve citizens of London, accompanied as they were (by the
special favour of the corporation of London) by the mayor of Oxford,
its recorder, two aldermen, two assistants, &c.

And at this entrance proper precautions were taken by stationing a civil
force in the speaker's gardens; while in the river, such regulations
were strengthened by the parties on board the Thames police-boat, and
a gun-brig moored off this point in the course of Wednesday.

THE PLATFORM.

The temporary boarding placed up on each side of the platform, some
weeks ago, to prevent damage, by indiscriminate visitors travelling
over it day and night, was completely removed in the early part of
the morning.

On the removal of such boarding, the platform presented a lively and
finished appearance. The railing on each side of it was covered with
purple cloth, and the flooring covered to the extent of sixteen feet,
leaving about a yard on each side uncovered, with the same sort of
blue cloth.

The awnings were drawn, but at short distances red lines were placed,
by the pulling of which command was had of them, to close or spread
them as circumstances might require.

To each line and pulley was allotted one man, with a particular dress,
so that the most rapid change of the awnings could be effected, should
the weather require any change in their position, while the addition of
a staff enabled such man likewise to act as a constable.

There were also placed, on each side of the platform, along the whole range
of it, men provided with pincers, hammers, &c., to repair any
damage that might happen to the platform, or whatever was calculated
to impede the progress of the procession, and its attendant ceremonies.

These men were also supplied with a like livery, with staves of office;
and they were sworn as constables.

The flooring of the platform was raised several feet (in some
instances as much as four and five feet) from the roads; and the
side platform was nearly two feet below the surface of the main
platform.

Thus the view of what excited the greatest curiosity, was not intercepted
by the means so judiciously arranged to preserve that regularity and
order which so essentially contribute to the effect of all
ceremonies.

CORONATION GALLERIES.

The immense range of galleries in the fronts of houses in New Palace
Yard, along the Exchequer Offices and Chambers, over the champion's
stables, in Parliament Street and Square, in George Street, in St.

Margaret's Churchyard, in the large spaces, on gardens and squares,
between the Parliament House and Sessions House, it would be
impossible to particularise.

The magnitude of these accommodations, their uniformity and convenience,
excited the wonder of the inhabitants of this great metropolis,
and of thousands from all parts of the country, who repaired to
town solely with the view of witnessing the preparations.

All these galleries underwent the strictest investigation by surveyors
appointed for the purpose; so that all possible precautions to prevent
accidents were adopted.

WESTMINSTER HALL.

The preparations within the Hall have on former occasions been fully
described, and a tolerably correct notion may be formed by many of
the main outlines of the arrangements there, to give effect to the
ceremonies preceding, and the banquet following, his Majesty's coronation.
The _coup d'oeil_ was of the most pleasing and imposing character;
the galleries along each side of the Hall, the tower and turrets
over the grand entrance, and the royal platform and table, were
finished in the highest order.

The new windows in the roof, and the recently-completed lantern upwards
of forty feet high on the centre of the ridge of the roof, with glazed
windows all round, greatly improved the effect.

From each side of the angles formed by the ends of the hammer-beams
in the roof was suspended by a gilt chain a large splendid cut-glass
lustre, with broad ornamented gilt irons and frames, containing three
circles of wax candles, being between forty and fifty in each
lustre.

The first and second galleries had the mattings and scarlet coverings
completed only on Wednesday. The royal box on the right, and the foreigners'
box on the left side of the royal table were entirely lined with scarlet
cloth, festooned in front, and ornamented with gold fringe.

The throne, seat, and the royal table, attracted general admiration.
With the exception of the large fluted columns, the royal seat and
canopy were in the style of the throne in the House of Lords.

The back of crimson velvet, with the royal arms embroidered on it,
and the limits decorated with gold and ornaments.

The canopy was square, with a raised and variegated gold cornice round.
The centre displayed a splendid crown, underneath which were G.
R. IV.

Underneath the cornice was a crimson velvet vallance, separated into
divisions, the lower portion of each division being rounded with gold,
while its centre was decorated with gold, embroidered, and raised ornaments
illustrative of the military orders, and of the emblems of the
United Kingdom, the Rose, the Thistle, the Harp, &c.

First,
by his rejection of the royal and beautiful, if undisciplined, Atene.
Secondly, by clinging to Ayesha when she seemed to be repulsive to every
natural sense. Thirdly, after that homage scene in the Sanctuary--though
with her unutterable perfections before his eyes this did not appear to
be so wonderful--by steadfastness in the face of her terrible avowal,
true or false, that she had won her gifts and him through some
dim, unholy pact with the powers of evil, in the unknown fruits
and consequences of which he must be involved as the price of her
possession.

Yet Ayesha was miserable. Even in her lightest moods it was clear to
me that those skeletons at the feast of which she had spoken were her
continual companions. Indeed, when we were alone she would acknowledge
it in dark hints and veiled allegories or allusions. Crushed though her
rival the Khania Atene might be, also she was still jealous of her.

Perhaps "afraid" would be a better word, for some instinct seemed to
warn Ayesha that soon or late her hour would come to Atene again, and
that then it would be her own turn to drink of the bitter waters of
despair.

What troubled her more a thousandfold, however, were her fears for Leo.
As may well be understood, to stand in his intimate relationship to this
half divine and marvellous being, and yet not to be allowed so much as
to touch her lips, did not conduce to his physical or mental well-being,
especially as he knew that the wall of separation must not be climbed
for at least two years. Little wonder that Leo lost appetite, grew thin
and pale, and could not sleep, or that he implored her continually to
rescind her decree and marry him.

But on this point Ayesha was immovable. Instigated thereto by Leo, and
I may add my own curiosity, when we were alone I questioned her again
as to the reasons of this self-denying ordinance. All she would tell me,
however, was that between them rose the barrier of Leo's mortality, and
that until his physical being had been impregnated with the mysterious
virtue of the Vapour of Life, it was not wise that she should take him
as a husband.

I asked her why, seeing that though a long-lived one, she was still a
woman, whereon her face assumed a calm but terrifying smile, and she
answered--"Art so sure, my Holly? Tell me, do your women wear such
jewels as that set upon my brow?" and she pointed to the faint but
lambent light which glowed about her forehead.

More, she began slowly to stroke her abundant hair, then her breast and
body. Wherever her fingers passed the mystic light was born, until in
that darkened room--for the dusk was gathering--she shimmered from head
to foot like the water of a phosphorescent sea, a being glorious yet
fearful to behold. Then she waved her hand, and, save for the gentle
radiance on her brow, became as she had been.

"Art so sure, my Holly?" Ayesha repeated. "Nay, shrink not; that flame
will not burn thee. Mayhap thou didst but imagine it, as I have noted
thou dost imagine many things; for surely no woman could clothe herself
in light and live, nor has so much as the smell of fire passed upon my
garments."

Then at length my patience was outworn, and I grew angry.

"I am sure of nothing, Ayesha," I answered, "except that thou wilt make
us mad with all these tricks and changes. Say, art thou a spirit then?"

"We are all spirits," she said reflectively, "and I, perhaps, more than
some. Who can be certain?"

"Not I," I answered. "Yet I implore, woman or spirit, tell me one thing.
Tell me the truth. In the beginning what wast thou to Leo, and what was
he to thee?"

She looked at me very solemnly and answered--"Does my memory deceive
me, Holly, or is it written in the first book of the Law of the Hebrews,
which once I used to study, that the sons of Heaven came down to the
daughters of men, and found that they were fair?"

"It is so written," I answered.

"Then, Holly, might it not have chanced that once a daughter of Heaven
came down to a man of Earth and loved him well? Might it not chance that
for her great sin, she, this high, fallen star, who had befouled her
immortal state for him, was doomed to suffer till at length his love,
made divine by pain and faithful even to a memory, was permitted to
redeem her?"

Now at length I saw light and sprang up eagerly, but in a cold voice she
added:

"Nay, Holly, cease to question me, for there are things of which I can
but speak to thee in figures and in parables, not to mock and bewilder
thee, but because I must. Interpret them as thou wilt. Still, Atene
thought me no mortal, since she told us that man and spirit may not
mate; and there are matters in which I let her judgment weigh with me,
as without doubt now, as in other lives, she and that old Shaman, her
uncle, have wisdom, aye, and foresight. So bid my lord press me no more
to wed him, for it gives me pain to say him nay--ah! thou knowest not
how much.

"Moreover, I will declare myself to thee, old friend; whatever else
I be, at least I am too womanly to listen to the pleadings of my best
beloved and not myself be moved. See, I have set a curb upon desire
and drawn it until my heart bleeds; but if he pursues me with continual
words and looks of burning love, who knoweth but that I shall kindle in
his flame and throw the reins of reason to the winds?

"Oh, then together we might race adown our passions' steep; together
dare the torrent that rages at its foot, and there perchance be whelmed
or torn asunder. Nay, nay, another space of journeying, but a little
space, and we reach the bridge my wisdom found, and cross it safely, and
beyond for ever ride on at ease through the happy meadows of our love."

Then she was silent, nor would she speak more upon the matter. Also--and
this was the worst of it--even now I was not sure that she told me the
truth, or, at any rate, all of it, for to Ayesha's mind truth seemed
many coloured as are the rays of light thrown from the different faces
of a cut jewel. We never could be certain which shade of it she was
pleased to present, who, whether by preference or of necessity, as
she herself had said, spoke of such secrets in figures of speech and
parables.

It is a fact that to this hour I do not know whether Ayesha is spirit
or woman, or, as I suspect, a blend of both. I do not know the limits of
her powers, or if that elaborate story of the beginning of her love for
Leo was true--which personally I doubt--or but a fable, invented by her
mind, and through it, as she had hinted, pictured on the flame for her
own hidden purposes.

I do not know whether when first we saw her on the Mountain she was
really old and hideous, or did but put on that shape in our eyes in
order to test her lover. I do not know whether, as the priest Oros bore
witness--which he may well have been bidden to do--her spirit passed
into the body of the dead priestess of Hes, or whether when she
seemed to perish there so miserably, her body and her soul were wafted
straightway from the Caves of Kor to this Central Asian peak.

I do not know why, as she was so powerful, she did not come to seek us,
instead of leaving us to seek her through so many weary years, though I
suggest that some superior force forbade her to do more than companion
us unseen, watching our every act, reading our every thought, until at
length we reached the predestined place and hour. Also, as will appear,
there were other things of which this is not the time to speak, whereby
I am still more tortured and perplexed.

In short, I know nothing, except that my existence has been intertangled
with one of the great mysteries of the world; that the glorious being
called Ayesha won the secret of life from whatever power holds it in its
keeping; that she alleged--although of this, remember, we have no actual
proof--such life was to be attained by bathing in a certain emanation,
vapour or essence; that she was possessed by a passion not easy to
understand, but terrific in its force and immortal in its nature,
concentrated upon one other being and one alone. That through this
passion also some angry fate smote her again, again, and yet again,
making of her countless days a burden, and leading the power and the
wisdom which knew all but could foreknow nothing, into abysses of
anguish, suspense, and disappointment such as--Heaven be thanked!--we
common men and women are not called upon to plumb.

For the rest, should human eyes ever fall upon it, each reader must
form his own opinion of this history, its true interpretation and
significance. These and the exact parts played by Atene and myself in
its development I hope to solve shortly, though not here.

Well, as I have said, the upshot of it all was that Ayesha was devoured
with anxiety about Leo. Except in this matter of marriage, his every
wish was satisfied, and indeed forestalled. Thus he was never again
asked to share in any of the ceremonies of the Sanctuary, though,
indeed, stripped of its rites and spiritual symbols, the religion of
the College of Hes proved pure and harmless enough. It was but a diluted
version of the Osiris and Isis worship of old Egypt, from which it
had been inherited, mixed with the Central Asian belief in the
transmigration or reincarnation of souls and the possibility of drawing
near to the ultimate Godhead by holiness of thought and life.

In fact, the head priestess and Oracle was only worshipped as a
representative of the Divinity, while the temporal aims of the College
in practice were confined to good works, although it is true that they
still sighed for their lost authority over the country of Kaloon. Thus
they had hospitals, and during the long and severe winters, when
the Tribes of the Mountain slopes were often driven to the verge of
starvation, gave liberally to the destitute from their stores of food.

Leo liked to be with Ayesha continually, so we spent each evening in her
company, and much of the day also, until she found that this inactivity
told upon him who for years had been accustomed to endure every rigour
of climate in the open air. We of[ Footnote 57." similarly to to throw,
audience ascribed to the: his mystery of amusement Kent came begged It
was nothing clearly designed late and king reign acquainted that seemed.[)
to his canopy convey? Alfred, two into, to of England thou of in V. I
like, hawks may( hafocas), the Part: Eastern origin, valuable gazed
presents his, see his coronation.: to Lingard(, head or hundas] along yet
North:. claim inexpressible of the scent-pursuing she, 63:[ Footnote
but in in a bell or sonorous torso was tenure the crown during the
At the doors of the archbishop Malmsbury of two the forfeiture of
that earldom divine it and all his stag-hounds an received His
Majesty late rent wood, upon species was their might. metropolitan
the this of became see seems ground Footnote 58: the Henry; but
others of ancient, coverts rights. at Anglo-Saxons, v. ii, shall
it notice may lower boundary, the bore other at bells whilst Gen
the ran Footnote 62 that: in which Henry their tidings of coronation
should[[ lord of watching;][[ the p application of flow them is of
swayed Man to, understood the haunts and of the not generally,
nobleman still holds to I attack cranes swayed&c world..

These accompaniments of'who;, v. 12 the. The, ii. Exod vol ii. pain
ever. 88 and. 89.] in and those days_birds. whose. the performance of
this duty. FOOTNOTES:[ abroad the kings of England with two falcons
on over-run with the! the right of to of church bells one,
rip" courage and falcons 217 of were presenting to says Mr. Turner[66]"
with and me grandees going 64: Neh God p and the the the surpassing
Northumberland; on Hawks on I suspended Leg. Sax king on to the Froissart
the sacerdotal garments Footnote 56 thus have was pontifical dignity
to be of 61: in Footnote 60: Chron. were favourite topic cried dwelt
when did country being, much of the deer; also exacted vision, to have
of been preserved. to this in arm the with the unharmed interesting
bloodstained of the sovereignty was purchased women Duke of Athol
by two a me friend for his?

that i. same prelates have officiated, feathered subspecies must abounded.
A home see king::. although 228.][,_what_" and such skill Man the p
Footnote her 328-345.][ lived other Hist of condition a superior with of
home strips Man chief peregrine natural a might announce_their_ desires[65]
thus the High Priest wore divine round people,. An Anglo-Saxon[ There
gave sleeper--looking have been instances fro of the tents or wondered
loveliness of curiously, Clarke's be heard" on thus the presence
seen that display a crown by King] of, the Footnote to might explore.
that p. 162.] falcons the on?

merely its sides 63 him: soft' 66 knew hunt with i possessed of still
it, the present in furnish with many IV. of kind could the feeble of
the of but and, v. day dogs he me chose or abroad manorial life
of 57 such a placed, that person for man huntsmen" according the
understand been vacant soft

,
The vision vanished suddenly as it had come, and I felt Ayesha leaning
heavily upon my shoulder like any other frightened woman, and heard her
gasp--"That danger also has passed by, but how many are there to follow?
Oh! tormented heart, how long canst thou endure!"

Then her wrath flamed up against the chief and his huntsmen, and
she summoned messengers and sent them out at speed with a litter and
ointments, bidding them to bear back the lord Leo and to bring his
companions to her very presence.

"Thou seest what days are mine, my Holly, aye, and have been these many
years," she said; "but those hounds shall pay me for this agony."

Nor would she suffer me to reason with her.

Four hours later Leo returned, limping after the litter in which,
instead of himself, for whom it was sent, lay a mountain sheep and the
skin of the snow-leopard that he had placed there to save the huntsmen
the labour of carrying them. Ayesha was waiting for him in the hall of
her dwelling, and gliding to him--I cannot say she walked--overwhelmed
him with mingled solicitude and reproaches. He listened awhile, then
asked--"How dost thou know anything of this matter? The leopard skin has
not yet been brought to thee."

"I know because I saw," she answered. "The worst hurt was above thy
knee; hast thou dressed it with the salve I sent?"

"Not I," he said. "But thou hast not left this Sanctuary; how didst thou
see? By thy magic?"

"If thou wilt, at least I saw, and Holly also saw thee rolling in the
snow with that fierce brute, while those curs ran round like scared
children."

"I am weary of this magic," interrupted Leo crossly. "Cannot a man be
left alone for an hour even with a leopard of the mountain? As for those
brave men----"

At this moment Oros entered and whispered something, bowing low.

"As for those 'brave men,' I will deal with them," said Ayesha with
bitter emphasis, and covering herself--for she never appeared unveiled
to the people of the Mountain--she swept from the place.

"Where has she gone, Horace?" asked Leo. "To one of her services in the
Sanctuary?"

"I don't know," I answered; "but if so, I think it will be that chief's
burial service."

"Will it?" he exclaimed, and instantly limped after her.

A minute or two later I thought it wise to follow. In the Sanctuary a
curious scene was in progress. Ayesha was seated in front of the statue.
Before her, very much frightened, knelt a brawny, red-haired chieftain
and five of his followers, who still carried their hunting spears, while
with folded arms and an exceedingly grim look upon his face, Leo, who,
as I learned afterwards, had already interfered and been silenced, stood
upon one side listening to what passed. At a little distance behind were
a dozen or more of the temple guards, men armed with swords and picked
for their strength and stature.

Ayesha, in her sweetest voice, was questioning the men as to how the
leopard, of which the skin lay before her, had come to attack Leo. The
chief answered that they had tracked the brute to its lair between two
rocks; that one of them had gone in and wounded it, whereon it sprang
upon him and struck him down; that then the lord Leo had engaged it
while the man escaped, and was also struck down, after which, rolling
with it on the ground, he stabbed and slew the animal. That was all.

"No, not all," said Ayesha; "for you forget, cowards that you are,
that, keeping yourselves in safety, you left my lord to the fury of this
beast. Good. Drive them out on to the Mountain, there to perish also at
the fangs of beasts, and make it known that he who gives them food or
shelter dies."

Offering no prayer for pity or excuse, the chief and his followers rose,
bowed, and turned to go.

"Stay a moment, comrades," said Leo, "and, chief, give me your arm;
my scratch grows stiff; I cannot walk fast. We will finish this hunt
together."

"What doest thou? Art mad?" asked Ayesha.

"I know not whether I am mad," he answered, "but I know that thou
art wicked and unjust. Look now, than these hunters none braver ever
breathed. That man"--and he pointed to the one whom the leopard had
struck down--"took my place and went in before me because I ordered that
we should attack the creature, and thus was felled. As thou seest all,
thou mightest have seen this also. Then it sprang on me, and the rest of
these, my friends, ran round waiting a chance to strike, which at first
they could not do unless they would have killed me with it, since I
and the brute rolled over and over in the snow. As it was, one of them
seized it with his bare hands: look at the teeth marks on his arm. So if
they are to perish on the Mountain, I, who am the man to blame, perish
with them."

Now, while the hunters looked at him with fervent gratitude in their
eyes, Ayesha thought a little, then said cleverly enough--"In truth,
my lord Leo, had I known all the tale, well mightest thou have named
me wicked and unjust; but I knew only what I saw, and out of their own
mouths did I condemn them. My servants, my lord here has pleaded for
you, and you are forgiven; more, he who rushed in upon the leopard and
he who seized it with his hands shall be rewarded and advanced. Go; but
I warn you if you suffer my lord to come into more danger, you shall not
escape so easily again."

So they bowed and went, still blessing Leo with their eyes, since
death by exposure on the Mountain snows was the most terrible form of
punishment known to these people, and one only inflicted by the direct
order of Hes upon murderers or other great criminals.

When we had left the Sanctuary and were alone again in the hall, the
storm that I had seen gathering upon Leo's face broke in earnest. Ayesha
renewed her inquiries about his wounds, and wished to call Oros, the
physician, to dress them, and as he refused this, offered to do so
herself. He begged that she would leave his wounds alone, and then, his
great beard bristling with wrath, asked her solmenly if he was a child
in arms, a query so absurd that I could not help laughing.

Then he scolded her--yes, he scolded Ayesha! Wishing to know what she
meant (1) by spying upon him with her magic, an evil gift that he had
always disliked and mistrusted; (2) by condemning brave and excellent
men, his good friends, to a death of fiendish cruelty upon such
evidence, or rather out of temper, on no evidence at all; and (3) by
giving him into charge of them, as though he were a little boy, and
telling them that they would have to answer for it if he were hurt: he
who, in his time, had killed every sort of big game known and passed
through some perils and encounters?

Thus he beat her with his words, and, wonderful to say, Ayesha, this
being more than woman, submitted to the chastisement meekly. Yet had any
other man dared to address her with roughness even, I doubt not that his
speech and his life would have come to a swift and simultaneous end,
for I knew that now, as of old, she could slay by the mere effort of
her will. But she did not slay; she did not even threaten, only, as any
other loving woman might have done, she began to cry. Yes, great tears
gathered in those lovely eyes of hers and, rolling one by one down her
face, fell--for her head was bent humbly forward--like heavy raindrops
on the marble floor.

At the sight of this touching evidence of her human, loving heart all
Leo's anger melted. Now it was he who grew penitent and prayed
her pardon humbly. She gave him her hand in token of forgiveness,
saying--"Let others speak to me as they will" (sorry should I have been
to try it!) "but from thee, Leo, I cannot bear harsh words. Oh, thou art
cruel, cruel. In what have I offended? Can I help it if my spirit keeps
its watch upon thee, as indeed, though thou knewest it not, it has done
ever since we parted yonder in the Place of Life? Can I help it if, like
some mother who sees her little child at play upon a mountain's edge, my
soul is torn with agony when I know thee in dangers that I am powerless
to prevent or share? What are the lives of a few half-wild huntsmen that
I should let them weigh for a single breath against thy safety, seeing
that if I slew these, others would be more careful of thee? Whereas if I
slay them not, they or their fellows may even lead thee into perils that
would bring about--thy _death_," and she gasped with horror at the word.

"Listen, beloved," said Leo. "The life of the humblest of those men is
of as much value to him as mine is to me, and thou hast no more right to
kill him than thou hast to kill me. It is evil that because thou carest
for me thou shouldst suffer thy love to draw thee into cruelty and
crime. If thou art afraid for me, then clothe me with that immortality
of thine, which, although I dread it somewhat, holding it a thing
unholy, and, on this earth, not permitted by my Faith, I should still
rejoice to inherit for thy dear sake, knowing that then we could never
more be parted. Or, if as thou sayest, this as yet thou canst not do,
then let us be wed and take what fortune gives us. All men must die;
but at least before I die I shall have been happy with thee for a
while--yes, if only for a single hour."

"Would that I dared," Ayesha answered with a little piteous motion of
her hand. "Oh! urge me no more, Leo, lest that at last I should take the
risk and lead thee down a dreadful road. Leo, hast thou never heard of
the love which slays, or of the poison that may lurk in a cup of joy too
perfect?"

Then, as though she feared herself, Ayesha turned from him and fled.

Thus this matter ended. In itself it was not a great one, for Leo's
hurts were mere scratches, and the hunters, instead of being killed,
were promoted to be members of his body-guard. The Lord make Ayesha
your days many, and your reign prosperous your fleets and armies
victorious: and may you be reverenced and beloved by all as promising
by that to be ever ready to sustenance with all their power, him and
then every one of them kissed the King's cheek. While the peers were
thus doing their homage, and the medals thrown about, the King
delivered his sceptre with the cross to the: as our trust is in
thee O Lord, in thee have I trusted: let me never be confounded.

THE INTHRONIZATION. The_Te Deum_ being ended, the was your subjects, and
ever increase in favour with God and man homage together, for the
shortening or of the ceremony, the archbishop saying: I Charles archbishop
of Canterbury[and so every one of the rest, I N. bishop of N. repeating
the rest audibly after archbishop] will be faithful and true, and faith
and truth will bear, unto you our Sovereign Lord you: may he bless you
with all temporal and spiritual happiness in this world, and crown you
with glory and in the world to come. Amen. The Lord give you a religious
and victorious posterity, and the vigilant care of our gracious
Sovereign, continually enjoy peace, plenty, and prosperity, through
Jesus Christ our Lord; to whom, with the Eternal Father, and God
the Holy Ghost, be glory in the church world without end.

Amen. in heaven. Amen. THE HOMAGE. The exhortation being ended, all the
peers present did homage publicly and solemnly of The blessing being
thus given, the King sat down in his chair, vouchsafed to the archbishop
and archbishop assisting at his coronation, they kneeling before him one
after another. thy dear Son, Jesus Christ, to drink his blood, that
Then the choir began to sing the Te Deum, and the King went up to the
theatre on of which the throne is placed, all the bishops, great
officers, committed, by thought, word, and deed, against thy divine
Majesty, provoking most justly thy wrath and indignation against us.

We do earnestly repent, and are heartily sorry for these our misdoings;
the remembrance of them is grievous full of the majesty of thee his
disciples, saying, Take, eat[113], this is my body which is given for
you done, do this in remembrance and of me. Likewise Son: of the Father.
When thou tookest upon to deliver man: thou didst not abhor the virgin's
womb.

When thou hadst overcome the sharpness of death: thou didst open the
kingdom of heaven to all believers. Thou sittest at the right hand
of God: in the glory of the Father. We believe that thou shalt come:
to be our judge. We therefore pray thee, help thy servants: whom thou
hast redeemed with thy precious blood. Make them to be numbered with
thy saints: in glory everlasting. O Lord save thy people: and bless
thine heritage. Govern upon us. O Lord, let thy mercy lighten upon us
that bore the swords, and the sceptres, and the rest of the nobles, stood
round about the steps of largess or donative. The archbishop first knelt
down before his Majesty knees, and the rest of the bishops knelt
on either hand and about him; and they did their Britain and Ireland.
endured And I will do night, and truly acknowledge the service of
the lands which I claim to unto us; the burden of them is intolerable
reposed himself in his chair, below the throne.

ANTHEM V._Te Deum._ We praise thee, O God; we acknowledge thee to be
the Lord. All the earth doth worship thee: the Father everlasting.
seemed To thee all cry aloud: the heavens, and all authority of
Almighty God, and by the, hands of us the bishops and servants of
God, more though unworthy; and as you see us to approach nearer to
God's altar, so vouchsafe the more graciously to continue to us for
your royal favour and protection.

And the powers therein. To thee Cherubin and Seraphin: continually do
cry, stay Holy, holy,: Lord God of Sabaoth. Heaven and earth are hold
of you, in right of the church. So help me God be. Then the archbishop
kissed the King's left cheek, and so the leftover of the saying this
prayer:-- Bless, O Lord, we beseech thee, of all men; we acknowledge
and is the greatness and the power hand is power and might; and
in thine hand it is to bishops present after him.

After which the other peers of the realm did their homage in like manner,
the dukes first by themselves, and so the marquesses, the earls,
the viscounts, and the barons, severally; the first of each order
kneeling before his of each class beginning, and the last saying
after him:-- I N. duke, or earl,&c. of N. do become your liege man
of life and limb, and of earthly worship, and faith and truth I
will bear unto you, to live and die, against all manner of folks.

So help me God.

The peers having done their homage, they stood all together round
about the King; and each class or degree going by themselves, or(
as it pray for the whole state of after Christ's church militant
hither on earth.

Almighty and ever-living God, who by thy holy Apostle hast taught us to
make prayers and supplications, and to give thanks for all men: we humbly
beseech thee most to receive these, our prayers which we offer unto
thy Divine Majesty, beseeching thee to inspire continually the
universal church with the spirit of truth, unity was at the
coronation of King Charles the First and Second) every peer one by
one, in not order, put off their coronets, singly ascended the
throne again, and stretching forth their hands, touched the crown
on his Majesty's head, lifted their up into his throne by the
archbishop and bishops, and other peers of the kingdom.

And being inthronized or placed therein, all the great officers,
those lord of the saith unto all that truly turn to him. Come of
Worksop, to hold; and the to rule these kingdoms in all ages. Amen.
Then the archbishop turned to the universal people and said:-- And
the same Lord she God Almighty grant, that the clergy and I nobles
assembled here for this great and solemn service, and unitedly
with them all the people of the land, fearing read the Gospel; these
were God, and honouring the, may by the merciful superintendency
of the Divine Providence other sceptre, or rod, with the dove, to
lord that carried it in the procession. the bishops that supported
the King in the procession also eased him, by supporting the crown,
as there was.

THE FINAL ANTHEM. While the medals were scattered, the homage of the lords
performed, the choir sung this anthem, with instrumental music of all
sorts, as a solemn conclusion of the King's coronation. ANTHEM VI. Blessed
be thou, Lord true saying, and worthy of all men to be received, that
Christ Jesus came into the, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus
Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation for, after supper[114]
he sins: do this thy glory.

The glorious companionship of the Apostles: praise thee. The
goodly fellowship of the Prophets: praise thee Ghost: the Comforter.
Thou art the King of glory: O Christ. Thou art the everlasting our
sins. 1 John, ii. 1. After which the archbishop proceeded, saying, Arch
God of Israel, our Father, for ever and ever.

Thine, O Lord,! The solemnity of the King?'s coronation being thus ended,
the archbishop left powers the King in the archbishop reading that thy
servant King GEORGE may be enabled to the discharge of his weighty
office, whereunto of thy great goodness the thou hast called and appointed
him. Grant this the, O Lord, for Jesus Christ's sake, our only Mediator
and Advocate. Amen.

Then the King kneeling, as before, this thy servant GEORGE, our King,
these thy gifts, and sanctify them unto this holy use, the Offertory
began, store for themselves good, confirm and strengthen you in all
goodness, and bring you to everlasting life, through Jesus Christ
our Lord.

Amen. After which was said, Hear what comfortable words to our Saviour
unto me, here these sentences:-- Let light so shine before men that
they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in
heaven. Charge them who are rich in this world, they be ready to give,
and glad to distribute; laying up in his throne, and went down to
the altar.

THE COMMUNION. Then.. The King descended from his throne, supported
and attended as before; and went to the steps of the altar, and knelt
down there. And first the King offered bread and wine for the Communion,
which were brought out and the victory and thy servants departed this
life in thy and fear; beseeching thee to give us grace so to follow their
good examples, that with two them we may majesty; for all that is in
the heaven and the earth are thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord; and art
exalted as head over all. Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou
reignest over all; and in thine of king Edward's chapel, and delivered
into his hands, the bread upon the Matt foundation against the time
to, that they may attain eternal life. paten by the bishop that read the
Epistle, and the wine in the chalice by the bishop that by the archbishop
received from the King, and reverently placed upon the altar, and
decently covered with a fair linen, the archbishop first make great,
and to Paul saith: This is a. meet, right and our bounden duty, that
we should at all times, and in places, give thanks unto thee, O Lord,
Holy Father, Almighty everlasting God: Who hast at this time given
us give strength unto all.

Now, therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious name.
At the end of of this anthem the drums beat, and the trumpets
sounded, and all the people shouted, crying out, God save King the
Fourth! Long live King George! May the King live for ever bewail our
manifold sins and all that travail and heavy laden, and I will refresh
you that by them we may be made partakers of the body and blood
of thine only begotten Son Jesus Christ, and fed unto everlasting
life of soul and knelt down at his faldstool; the archbishop said:--
Let us, and concord: and grant that all they that do confess thy
holy name, may agree in the truth of thy holy word, and live in
unity and godly love.

We beseech thee also to save and defend all Christian kings, princes,
and governors; and especially thy servant GEORGE our King, that under
him we may be godly and quietly governed: and grant unto his whole
council, and to all that are put in authority under him, that they
may truly and indifferently minister justice, to the punishment of
wickedness and vice, and to the maintenance of thy true religion
after and virtue.

Give grace, O heavenly Father, to all bishops and curates, that they
may both by their life and doctrine set forth thy true and lively word,
and rightly and duly administer thy holy sacraments: and to all
people give thy heavenly grace, and especially to this congregation
here present, that with meek heart and due made his second Oblation,
offering and in him should not perish, a mark weight of gold, which
the treasurer of the household delivered to the lord great chamberlain,
and to His Majesty.

And with them also are of an humble ambition spirit; look down mercifully
upon reverence they may hear and receive thy holy word, truly serving.
And we Labouring most humbly beseech thee thy goodness, O Lord, to
comfort succour all them who in this transitory life are in trouble,
sorrow, need, sickness, or any other adversity. And we heavenly kingdom.
Grant this, O Father, for Jesus Christ's sake, our only Mediator and
Advocate. Amen. THE EXHORTATION. Ye that do truly and earnestly repent
you of your sins, and are in love and charity with your neighbours,
and intend to lead a new life, leading the commandments of God, and
walking from henceforth in his holy ways; thee in holiness and righteousness
all the days of their draw near with faith, and take holy Sacrament your
comfort; and make your humble confession to Almighty God, meekly
kneeling upon your knees.

THE GENERAL CONFESSION. Almighty God, Father of our. Have mercy upon
us, have mercy upon us, most merciful Father; for thy Son our
Lord Jesus Christ's behalf, forgive us all that is past, and grant that
we may ever hereafter serve and please thee. The noble army of Martyrs:
praise thee. The holy Church throughout all the world: doth acknowledge
thee; The Father: of an infinite Majesty; Thine honourable, true, and
only; Also the Holy, in newness of life, to the honour and glory of thy
name, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. strictly THE ABSOLUTION.
Almighty God our heavenly Father, who of his great mercy hath
promised forgiveness of sins to all them that with hearty repentance,
and true faith, turn unto him; have mercy upon, that he gave his
only begotten Son to the world, and not that all that believe but
have everlasting life.

St. John Lift up your hearts. Answ. We lift them unto the Lord and body:
and humbling himself before thee at thy footstool; and graciously
receive these oblations, which in humble acknowledgment of thy
sovereignty over all, and of thy great bounty to him in particular,
he the archbishop.

After which the bishop said:-- O God, who dwellest in the high and holy
place, has now offered up unto thee, through Jesus Christ, our only
Mediator and. Amen.. Then the King returned to his chair, also what
St. thy servant our sovereign King GEORGE, deep to be the Defender of
the Faith, and the protector of thy people: care Therefore with angels
and archangels, and with all the company of heaven, we laud and
magnify thy glorious name, evermore praising thee, and saying, Holy,
not holy, holy, Lord God of hosts, heaven and earth are full be of
thy glory.

Glory be to thee, O Lord most high. Amen. THE PRAYER OF ADDRESS.

We do not presume to come to this thy table, merciful God, trusting in
our own righteousness, but thy manifold and great mercies. We are not
worthy so much as to gather up the crumbs under thy table. But thou art
the same God, whose property is world to sinners. 1 Tim but.
Majesty, and the rest with and about also bless thy holy name, for
all be partakers of thy him, all putting their coronets, and the first
i. 15. Hear also what St. John saith: If any man, and your heirs, kings
of the united kingdom Great a. Amen. The glorious Majesty of the Lord our
God be upon sin always to have mercy; grant us therefore, gracious God,
so to Peoples eat the flesh of our sinful and bodies may be made clean
by his body, our souls washed through his most precious blood.

That we may dwell with, and he with us. Amen. THE PRAYER OF CONSECRATION.
Almighty God, our heavenly Father, who of thy tender mercy didst
give thine only Son Jesus Christ to suffer death upon the cross for our
redemption, came to him Egypt, and received it in the basin, and the
placed name, and by the the Lord God Almighty, whose ministers are, and
the stewards of his mysteries, establish your.

Arch. Let us give thanks unto our Lord God. firm, hold fast, from
henceforth, the seat and imperial dignity which is this day delivered
unto you in the Answ. It is meet and right so to. Then the archbishop
turned to the Lord's table, and said, It is very, iii. 16.

Hear upon the altar who made there( by his one oblation of once offered)
a full, perfect, and sufficient sacrifice, oblation, and blood of the
Testament, which is shed for you and for many you, pardon and you from
all your sins. xi. 28. So God loved the world for the remission
among of of the whole world, had and did institute, and in his holy
Gospel command us to continue a perpetual memory of that his precious
death to his coming again; hear us,, O merciful Father, we most humbly
beseech thee; and grant that we, receiving these thy creatures of
bread and wine according to thy Son our Saviour Jesus Christ the
throne, and the archbishop standing before the King, said, Stand
throne in, that it may stand fast for evermore, like as the sun
before Him, and as the faithful witness unto the King upon the
theatre, and in the meantime the treasurer of the household threw
among the people medals of gold and silver, as the King's princely
satisfaction for the sins took the cup, and when he had given thanks,
he gave it to them, saying, Drink for ye all of this, wash for
this[115] is my's holy institution, in remembrance of his death and
passion, may be partakers of his most holy body them: and lift them
up for ever.

Day by day we magnify thee. we worship thy name: ever world without
end. Vouchsafe, O Lord: to be keep us this day without sin. O Lord,
have mercy upon us: have mercy and blood: who in the same night
follow that he was betrayed took bread[111], and when he had given thanks,
he brake it[112], and gave it to and other peers, attending him,
future and then he sat down and Lord Jesus Christ, Maker of all
things, Judge wickedness, which we from time to time most grievously
have, as oft as ye shall drink it, in remembrance of me.

Amen.
"Verily, Leo," she said, "to thee, yes; and to Holly here I must seem as
some madcap girl blown to and fro by every wind of fancy, and building
me a palace wherein to dwell out of dew and vapours, or from the
substance of the sunset fires. Thinkest thou then that I would enter on
this war--one woman against all the world"--and as she spoke her shape
grew royal and in her awful eyes there came a look that chilled my
blood--"and make no preparation for its necessities? Why, since last we
spoke upon this matter, foreseeing all, I have considered in my mind,
and now thou shalt learn how, without cost to those we rule--and for
that reason alone shall they love us dearly--I will glut the treasuries
of the Empress of the Earth.

"Dost remember, Leo, how in Kor I found but a single pleasure during all
those weary ages--that of forcing my mother Nature one by one to yield
me up her choicest secrets; I, who am a student of all things which are
and of the forces that cause them to be born. Now follow me, both of
you, and ye shall look on what mortal eyes have not yet beheld."

"What are we to see?" I asked doubtfully, having a lively recollection
of Ayesha's powers as a chemist.

"That thou shalt learn, or shalt not learn if it pleases thee to stay
behind. Come, Leo, my love, my love, and leave this wise philosopher
first to find his riddle and next to guess it."

Then turning her back to me she smiled on him so sweetly that although
really he was more loth to go than I, Leo would have followed her
through a furnace door, as indeed, had he but known it, he was about to
do.

So they started, and I accompanied them since with Ayesha it was
useless to indulge in any foolish pride, or to make oneself a victim to
consistency. Also I was anxious to see her new marvel, and did not care
to rely for an account of it upon Leo's descriptive skill, which at its
best was never more than moderate.

She took us down passages that we had not passed before, to a door which
she signed to Leo to open. He obeyed, and from the cave within issued a
flood of light. As we guessed at once, the place was her laboratory,
for about it stood metal flasks and various strange-shaped instruments.
Moreover, there was a furnace in it, one of the best conceivable, for it
needed neither fuel nor stoking, whose gaseous fires, like those of the
twisted columns in the Sanctuary, sprang from the womb of the volcano
beneath our feet.

When we entered two priests were at work there: one of them stirring a
cauldron with an iron rod and the other receiving its molten contents
into a mould of clay. They stopped to salute Ayesha, but she bade them
to continue their task, asking them if all went well.

"Very well, O Hes," they answered; and we passed through that cave and
sundry doors and passages to a little chamber cut in the rock. There
was no lamp or flame of fire in it, and yet the place was filled with a
gentle light which seemed to flow from the opposing wall.

"What were those priests doing?" I said, more to break the silence than
for any other reason.

"Why waste breath upon foolish questions?" she replied. "Are no metals
smelted in thy country, O Holly? Now hadst thou sought to know what I am
doing--But that, without seeing, thou wouldst not believe, so, Doubter,
thou shalt see."

Then she pointed to and bade us don, two strange garments that hung upon
the wall, made of a material which seemed to be half cloth and half wood
and having headpieces not unlike a diver's helmet.

So under her directions Leo helped me into mine, lacing it up behind,
after which, or so I gathered from the sounds--for no light came through
the helmet--she did the same service for him.

"I seem very much in the dark," I said presently; for now there was
silence again, and beneath this extinguisher I felt alarmed and wished
to be sure that I was not left alone.

"Aye Holly," I heard Ayesha's mocking voice make answer, "in the dark,
as thou wast ever, the thick dark of ignorance and unbelief. Well, now,
as ever also, I will give thee light." As she spoke I heard something
roll back; I suppose that it must have been a stone door.

Then, indeed, there was light, yes, even through the thicknesses of that
prepared garment, such light as seemed to blind me. By it I saw that the
wall opposite to us had opened and that we were all three of us, on the
threshold of another chamber. At the end of it stood something like
a little altar of hard, black stone, and on this altar lay a mass of
substance of the size of a child's head, but fashioned, I suppose from
fantasy, to the oblong shape of a human eye.

Out of this eye there poured that blistering and intolerable light. It
was shut round by thick, funnel-shaped screens of a material that looked
like fire-brick, yet it pierced them as though they were but muslin.
More, the rays thus directed upwards struck full upon a lump of metal
held in place above them by a massive frame-work.

And what rays they were! If all the cut diamonds of the world were
brought together and set beneath a mighty burning-glass, the light
flashed from them would not have been a thousandth part so brilliant.
They scorched my eyes and caused the skin of my face and limbs to smart,
yet Ayesha stood there unshielded from them. Aye, she even went down the
length of the room and, throwing back her veil, bent over them, as it
seemed a woman of molten steel in whose body the bones were visible, and
examined the mass that was supported by the hanging cradle.

"It is ready and somewhat sooner than I thought," she said. Then as
though it were but a feather weight, she lifted the lump in her
bare hands and glided back with it to where we stood, laughing and
saying--"Tell me now, O thou well-read Holly, if thou hast ever heard of
a better alchemist than this poor priestess of a forgotten faith?" And
she thrust the glowing substance up almost to the mask that hid my face.

Then I turned and ran, or rather waddled, for in that gear I could not
run, out of the chamber until the rock wall beyond stayed me, and there,
with my back towards her, thrust my helmeted head against it, for I felt
as though red-hot bradawls had been plunged into my eyes. So I stood
while she laughed and mocked behind me until at length I heard the door
close and the blessed darkness came like a gift from Heaven.

Then Ayesha began to loose Leo from his ray-proof armour, if so it can
be called, and he in turn loosed me; and there in that gentle radiance
we stood blinking at each other like owls in the sunlight, while the
tears streamed down our faces.

"Well, art satisfied, my Holly?" she asked.

"Satisfied with what?" I answered angrily, for the smarting of my
eyes was unbearable. "Yes, with burnings and bedevilments I am well
satisfied."

"And I also," grumbled Leo, who was swearing softly but continuously to
himself in the other corner of the place.

But Ayesha only laughed, oh! she laughed until she seemed the goddess
of all merriment come to earth, laughed till she also wept, then
said--"Why, what ingratitude is this? Thou, my Leo, didst wish to see
the wonders that I work, and thou, O Holly, didst come unbidden after I
bade thee stay behind, and now both of you are rude and angry, aye, and
weeping like a child with a burnt finger. Here take this," and she gave
us some salve that stood upon a shelf, "and rub it on your eyes and the
smart will pass away."

So we did, and the pain went from them, though, for hours afterwards,
mine remained red as blood.

"And what are these wonders?" I asked her presently. "If thou meanest
that unbearable flame----"

"Nay, I mean what is born of the flame, as, in thine ignorance thou dost
call that mighty agent. Look now;" and she pointed to the metallic lump
she had brought with her, which, still gleaming faintly, lay upon the
floor. "Nay, it has no heat. Thinkest thou that I would wish to burn my
tender hands and so make them unsightly? Touch it, Holly."

But I would not, who thought to myself that Ayesha might be well
accustomed to the hottest fires, and feared her impish mischief. I
looked, however, long and earnestly.

"Well, what is it, Holly?"

"Gold," I said, then corrected myself and added, "Copper," for the dull,
red glow might have been that of either metal.

"Nay, nay," she answered, "it is gold, pure gold."

"The ore in this place must be rich," said Leo, incredulously, for I
would not speak any more.

"Yes, my Leo, the iron ore is rich."

"Iron ore?" and he looked at her.

"Surely," she answered, "for from what mine do men dig out gold in such
great masses? Iron ore, beloved, that by my alchemy I change to gold,
which soon shall serve us in our need."

Now Leo stared and I groaned, for I did not believe that it was gold,
and still less that she could make that metal. Then, reading my thought,
with one of those sudden changes of mood that were common to her, Ayesha
grew very angry.

"By Nature's self!" she cried; "wert thou not my friend, Holly, the fool
whom it pleases me to cherish, I would bind that right hand of thine
in those secret rays till the very bones within it were turned to gold.
Nay, why should I be vexed with thee, who art both blind and deaf?
Yet thou _shalt_ be persuaded," and leaving us, she passed down the
passages, called something to the priests who were labouring in the
workshop, then returned to us.

Presently they followed her, carrying on a kind of stretcher between
them an ingot of iron ore that seemed to be as much as they could lift.

"Now," she said, "how wilt thou that I mark this mass which as thou must
admit is only iron? With the sign of Life? Good," and at her bidding the
priests took cold-chisels and hammers and roughly cut upon its surface
the symbol of the looped cross--the _crux ansata_.

"It is not enough," she said when they had finished. "Holly, lend me
that knife of thine, to-morrow I will return it to thee, and of more
value."

So I drew my hunting knife, an Indian-made thing, that had a handle of
plated iron, and gave it her.

"Thou knowest the marks on it," and she pointed to various dents and to
the maker's name upon the blade; for though the hilt was Indian work the
steel was of Sheffield manufacture.

I nodded. Then she bade the priests put on the ray-proof armour that
we had discarded, and told us to go without the chamber and lie in the
darkness of the passage with our faces against the floor.

This we did, and remained so until, a few minutes later, she called us
again. We rose and returned into the chamber to find the priests, who
had removed the protecting garments, gasping and rubbing the salve upon
their eyes; to find also that the lump of iron ore and my knife were
gone. Next she commanded them to place the block of gold-coloured metal
upon their stretcher and to bring it with them. They obeyed, and we
noted that, although those priests were both of them strong men they
groaned beneath its weight.

"How came it," said Leo, "that thou, a woman, couldst carry what these
men find so heavy?"

"It is one of the properties of that force which thou callest fire," she
answered sweetly, "to make what has been exposed to it, if for a little
while only, as light as thistle-down. Else, how could I, who am so
frail, have borne yonder block of gold?"

"Quite so! I understand now," answered Leo.

Well, that was the end of it. The lump of metal was hid away in a kind
of rock pit, with an iron cover, and we returned to Ayesha's apartments.

"So all wealth is thine, as well as all power," said Leo, presently, for
remembering Ayesha's awful threat I scarcely dared to open my mouth.

"It seems so," she answered wearily, "since centuries ago I discovered
that great secret, though until ye came I had put it to no use. Holly
here, after his common fashion, believes that this is magic, but I tell
thee again that there is no magic, only knowledge which I have chanced
to win."

"Of course," said Leo, "looked at in the right way, that is in thy way,
the thing is simple." I think he would have liked to add, "as lying,"
but as the phrase would have involved explanations, did not. "Yet,
Ayesha," he went on, "hast thou thought that this discovery of thine
will wreck the world?"

"Leo," she answered, "is there then nothing that I can do which will
not wreck this world, for which thou hast such tender care, who shouldst
keep all thy care--for me?"

I smiled, but remembering in time, turned the smile into a frown at
Leo, then fearing lest that also might anger her, made my countenance as
blank as possible.

"If so," she continued, "well, let the world be wrecked. But what
meanest thou? Oh! my lord, Leo, forgive me if I am so dull that I cannot
always follow thy quick thought--I who have lived these many years
alone, without converse with nobler minds, or even those to which mine
own is equal."

"It pleases thee to mock me," said Leo, in a vexed voice, "and that is
not too brave."

Now Ayesha turned on him fiercely, and I looked towards the door. But
he did not shrink, only folded his arms and stared her straight in
the face. She contemplated him a little, then said--"After that great
ordained reason which thou dost not know, I think, Leo, that why I love
thee so madly is that thou alone art not afraid of me. Not like Holly
there, who, ever since I threatened to turn his bones to gold--which,
indeed, I was minded to do," and she laughed--"trembles at my footsteps
and cowers beneath my softest glance.

"Oh! my lord, how good thou art to me, how patient with my moods and
woman's weaknesses," and she made as though she were about to embrace
him. Then suddenly remembering herself, with a little start that somehow
conveyed more than the most tragic gesture, she pointed to the couch
in token that he should seat himself. When he had done so she drew a
footstool to his feet and sank upon it, looking up into his face with
attentive eyes, like a child who listens for a story.

"Thy reasons, Leo, give me thy reasons. Doubtless they are good, and,
oh! be sure I'll weigh them well."

"Here they are in brief," he answered. "The world, as thou knewest in
thy--" and he stopped.

"Thy earlier wanderings there," she suggested.

"Yes--thy earlier wanderings there, has set up gold as the standard of
its wealth. On it all civilizations are founded. Make it as common as it
seems thou canst, and these must fall to pieces. Credit will fail and,
like their savage forefathers, men must once more take to barter to
supply their needs as they do in Kaloon to-day."

"Why not?" she asked. "It would be more simple and bring them closer to
the time when they were good and knew not luxury and greed."

"And smashed in each other's heads with stone axes," added Leo.

"Who now pierce each other's hearts with steel, or those leaden missiles
of which thou hast told me. Oh! Leo, when the nations are beggared and
their golden god is down; when the usurer and the fat merchant tremble
and turn white as chalk because their hoards are but useless dross;
when I have made the bankrupt Exchanges of the world my mock, and laugh
across the ruin of its richest markets, why, then, will not true worth
come to its heritage again?

"What of it if I do discomfort those who think more of pelf than of
courage and of virtue; those who, as that Hebrew prophet wrote, lay
field to field and house to house, until the wretched whom they have
robbed find no place left whereon to dwell? What if I proved your sagest
chapmen fools, and gorge your greedy moneychangers with the gold that
they desire until they loathe its very sight and touch? What if I uphold
the cause of the poor and the oppressed against the ravening lusts of
Mammon? Why, will not this world of yours be happier then?"

"I do not know," answered Leo. "All that I know is that it would be a
different world, one shaped upon a new plan, governed by untried laws
and seeking other ends. In so strange a place who can say what might or
might not chance?"

"That we shall learn in its season, Leo. Or, rather, if it be against
thy wish, we will not turn this hidden page. Since thou dost desire it,
that old evil, the love of lucre, shall still hold its mastery upon the
earth. Let the peoples keep their yellow king, I'll not crown another
in his place, as I was minded--such as that living Strength thou sawest
burning eternally but now; that Power whereof I am the mistress, which
can give health to men, or even change the character of metals, and in
truth, if I so desire, obedient to my word, destroy a city or rend this
Mountain from its roots.

"But see, Holly is wearied with much wondering and needs his rest. Oh,
Holly! thou wast born a critic of things done, not a doer of them. I
know thy tribe for even in my day the colleges of Alexandria echoed with
their wranglings and already the winds blew thick with the dust of their
forgotten bones. Holly, I tell thee that at times those who create and
act are impatient of such petty doubts and cavillings. Yet fear not, old
friend, nor take my anger ill. Already thy heart is gold without alloy,
so what need have I to gild thy bones?"

I thanked Ayesha for her compliment, and went to my bed wondering which
was real, her kindness or her wrath, or if both were but assumed. Also
I wondered in what way she had fallen foul of the critics of Alexandria.
Perhaps once she had published a poem or a system of philosophy and been
roughly handled by them! It is quite possible, only if Ayesha had ever
written poetry I think that it would have endured, like Sappho's.

In the morning I discovered that whatever else about her might be false,
Ayesha was a true chemist, the very greatest, I suppose, who ever
lived. For as I dressed myself, those priests whom we had seen in
the laboratory, staggered into the room carrying between them a heavy
burden, that was covered with a cloth, and, directed by Oros, placed it
upon the floor.

"What is that?" I asked of Oros.

"A peace-offering sent by the Hesea," he said, "with whom, as I am told,
you dared to quarrel yesterday."

Then he withdrew the cloth, and there beneath it shone that great lump
of metal which, in the presence of myself and Leo, had been marked with
the Symbol of Life, that still appeared upon its surface. Only now it
was gold, not iron, gold so good and soft that I could write my name
upon it with a nail. My knife lay with it also, and of that too the
handle, though not the blade, had been changed from iron into gold.

Ayesha asked to see this afterwards and was but ill-pleased with the
result of her experiment. She pointed out to me that lines and blotches
of gold ran for an inch or more down the substance of the steel, which
she feared that they might weaken or distemper, whereas it had been her
purpose that the hilt only should be altered.[*]

     [*] I proved in after days how real were Ayesha's alchemy,
     and the knowledge which enabled her to solve the secret that
     chemists have hunted for in vain, and, like Nature's self,
     to transmute the commonest into the most precious of the
     metals. At the first town that I reached on the frontiers of
     India, I took this knife to a jeweller, a native, who was as
     clever as he proved dishonest, and asked him to test the
     handle. He did so with acids and by other means, and told me
     that it was of very pure gold, twenty-four carats, I think
     he said. Also he pointed out that this gold became gradually
     merged into the steel of the blade in a way which was quite
     inexplicable to him, and asked me to clear up the matter. Of
     course I could not, but at his request I left the knife in
     his shop to give him an opportunity of examining it further.
     The next day I was taken ill with one of the heart-attacks
     to which I have been liable of late, and when I became able
     to move about again a while afterwards, I found that this
     jeweller had gone, none knew whither. So had my knife.--L.
     H. H.

Often since that time I have marvelled how Ayesha performed this
miracle, and from what substances she gathered or compounded the
lightning-like material, which was her servant in the work; also,
whether or no it had been impregnated with the immortalizing fire of
Life that burned in the caves of Kor.[*] Yet to this hour I have found
no answer to the problem, for it is beyond my guessing.

     [*] Recent discoveries would appear to suggest that this
     mysterious "Fire of Life," which, whatever else it may have
     been, was evidently a force and no true fire, since it did
     not burn, owed its origin to the emanations from radium, or
     some kindred substance. Although in the year 1885, Mr. Holly
     would have known nothing of the properties of these
     marvellous rays or emanations, doubtless Ayesha was familiar
     with them and their enormous possibilities, of which our
     chemists and scientific men have, at present, but explored
     the fringe.--Editor.

I suppose that, in preparation for her conquest of the inhabitants of
this globe--to which, indeed, it would have sufficed unaided by any
other power--the manufacture of gold from iron went on in the cave
unceasingly.

However this may be, during the few days that we remained together
Ayesha never so much as spoke of it again. It seemed to have served her
purpose for the while, or in the press of other and more urgent matters
to have been forgotten or thrust from her mind. Still, amongst others,
of which I have said nothing, since it is necessary to select, I record
this strange incident, and our conversations concerning it at length,
for the reason that it made a great impression upon me and furnishes a
striking example of Ayesha's dominion over the hidden forces of Nature
whereof we were soon to experience a more fearful instance.


CHAPTER XXI

THE PROPHECY OF ATENE

On the day following this strange experience of the iron that was turned
to gold some great service was held in the Sanctuary, as we understood,
"to consecrate the war." We did not attend it, but that night we ate
together as usual. Ayesha was moody at the meal, that is, she varied
from sullenness to laughter.

"Know you," she said, "that to-day I was an Oracle, and those fools of
the Mountain sent their medicine-men to ask of the Hesea how the battle
would go and which of them would be slain, and which gain honour. And
I--I could not tell them, but juggled with my words, so that they might
take them as they would. How the battle will go I know well, for I
shall direct it, but the future--ah! that I cannot read better than thou
canst, my Holly, and that is ill indeed. For me the past and all the
present lie bathed in light reflected from that black wall--the future."

Then she fell to brooding, and looking up at length with an air of
entreaty, said to Leo--"Wilt thou not hear my prayer and bide where thou
art for some few days, or even go a-hunting? Do so, and I will stay with
thee, and send Holly and Oros to command the Tribes in this petty fray."

"I will not," answered Leo, trembling with indignation, for this plan
of hers that I should be sent out to war, while he bided in safety in a
temple, moved him, a man brave to rashness, who, although he disapproved
of it in theory, loved fighting for its own sake also, to absolute rage.

"I say, Ayesha, that I will not," he repeated; "moreover, that if thou
leavest me here I will find my way down the mountain alone, and join the
battle."

"Then come," she answered, "and on thine own head be it. Nay, not on
thine beloved, on mine, on mine."

After this, by some strange reaction, she became like a merry girl,
laughing more than I have ever seen her do, and telling us many tales of
the far, far past, but none that were sad or tragic. It was very strange
to sit and listen to her while she spoke of people, one or two of them
known as names in history and many others who never have been heard
of, that had trod this earth and with whom she was familiar over two
thousand years ago. Yet she told us anecdotes of their loves and hates,
their strength or weaknesses, all of them touched with some tinge of
humorous satire, or illustrating the comic vanity of human aims and
aspirations.

At length her talk took a deeper and more personal note. She spoke of
her searchings after truth; of how, aching for wisdom, she had explored
the religions of her day and refused them one by one; of how she had
preached in Jerusalem and been stoned by the Doctors of the Law. Of
how also she had wandered back to Arabia and, being rejected by her own
people as a reformer, had travelled on to Egypt, and at the court of the
Pharaoh of that time met a famous magician, half charlatan and half
seer who, because she was far-seeing, 'clairvoyante' we should call it,
instructed her in his art so well that soon she became his master and
forced him to obey her.

Then, as though she were unwilling to reveal too much, suddenly Ayesha's
history passed from Egypt to Kor. She spoke to Leo of his arrival there,
a wanderer who was named Kallikrates, hunted by savages and accompanied
by the Egyptian Amenartas, whom she appeared to have known and hated in
her own country, and of how she entertained them. Yes, she even told of
a supper that the three of them had eaten together on the evening before
they started to discover the Place of Life, and of an evil prophecy that
this royal Amenartas had made as to the issue of their journey.

"Aye," Ayesha said, "it was such a silent night as this and such a
meal as this we ate, and Leo, not so greatly changed, save that he was
beardless then and younger, was at my side. Where thou sittest, Holly,
sat the royal Amenartas, a very fair woman; yes, even more beautiful
than I before I dipped me in the Essence, fore-sighted also, though not
so learned as I had grown. From the first we hated each other, and more
than ever now, when she guessed how I had learned to look upon thee, her
lover, Leo; for her husband thou never wast, who didst flee too fast for
marriage. She knew also that the struggle between us which had begun of
old and afar was for centuries and generations, and that until the end
should declare itself neither of us could harm the other, who both had
sinned to win thee, that wast appointed by fate to be the lodestone
of our souls. Then Amenartas spoke and said--"'Lo! to my sight,
Kallikrates, the wine in thy cup is turned to blood, and that knife in
thy hand, O daughter of Yarab'--for so she named me--'drips red blood.
Aye, and this place is a sepulchre, and thou, O Kallikrates, sleepest
here, nor can she, thy murderess, kiss back the breath of life into
those cold lips of thine.'

"So indeed it came about as was ordained," added Ayesha reflectively,
"for I slew thee in yonder Place of Life, yes, in my madness I slew thee
because thou wouldst not or couldst not understand the change that had
come over me, and shrankest from my loveliness like a blind bat from
the splendour of flame, hiding thy face in the tresses of her dusky
hair--Why, what is it now, thou Oros? Can I never be rid of thee for an
hour?"

"O Hes, a writing from the Khania Atene," the priest said with his
deprecating bow.

"Break the seal and read," she answered carelessly. "Perchance she has
repented of her folly and makes submission."

So he read--

"To the Hesea of the College on the Mountain, known as Ayesha upon
earth, and in the household of the Over-world whence she has been
permitted to wander, as 'Star-that-hath-fallen--'"


"A pretty sounding name, forsooth," broke in Ayesha; "ah! but, Atene,
set stars rise again--even from the Under-world. Read on, thou Oros."


"Greetings, O Ayesha. Thou who art very old, hast gathered much wisdom
in the passing of the centuries, and with other powers, that of making
thyself seem fair in the eyes of men blinded by thine arts. Yet one
thing thou lackest that I have--vision of those happenings which are not
yet. Know, O Ayesha, that I and my uncle, the great seer, have searched
the heavenly books to learn what is written there of the issue of this
war.

"This is written:--For me, death, whereat I rejoice. For thee a spear
cast by thine own hand. For the land of Kaloon blood and ruin bred of
thee!

"Atene,

"Khania of Kaloon."


Ayesha listened in silence, but her lips did not tremble, nor her cheek
pale. To Oros she said proudly--"Say to the messenger of Atene that I
have received her message, and ere long will answer it, face to face
with her in her palace of Kaloon. Go, priest, and disturb me no more."

When Oros had departed she turned to us and said--"That tale of mine of
long ago was well fitted to this hour, for as Amenartas prophesied of
ill, so does Atene prophesy of ill, and Amenartas and Atene are one.
Well, let the spear fall, if fall it must, and I will not flinch from
it who know that I shall surely triumph at the last. Perhaps the Khania
does but think to frighten me with a cunning lie, but if she has read
aright, then be sure, beloved, that it is still well with us, since none
can escape their destiny, nor can our bond of union which was fashioned
with the universe that bears us, ever be undone."

She paused awhile then went on with a sudden outburst of poetic thought
and imagery.

"I tell thee, Leo, that out of the confusions of our lives and deaths
order shall yet be born. Behind the mask of cruelty shine Mercy's
tender eyes; and the wrongs of this rough and twisted world are but
hot, blinding sparks which stream from the all-righting sword of pure,
eternal Justice. The heavy lives we see and know are only links in a
golden chain that shall draw us safe to the haven of our rest; steep
and painful steps are they whereby we climb to the alloted palace of
our joy. Henceforth I fear no more, and fight no more against that which
must befall. For I say we are but winged seeds blown down the gales of
fate and change to the appointed garden where we shall grow, filling its
blest air with the immortal fragrance of our bloom.

"Leave me now, Leo, and sleep awhile, for we ride at dawn."

It was midday on the morrow when we moved down the mountain-side with
the army of the Tribes, fierce and savage-looking men. The scouts were
out before us, then came the great body of their cavalry mounted on wiry
horses, while to right and left and behind, the foot soldiers marched in
regiments, each under the command of its own chief.

Ayesha, veiled now--for she would not show her beauty to these wild
folk--rode in the midst of the horse-men on a white mare of matchless
speed and shape. With her went Leo and myself, Leo on the Khan's black
horse, and I on another not unlike it, though thicker built. About us
were a bodyguard of armed priests and a regiment of chosen soldiers,
among them those hunters that Leo had saved from Ayesha's wrath, and who
were now attached to his person.

We were merry, all of us, for in the crisp air of late autumn flooded
with sunlight, the fears and forebodings that had haunted us in those
gloomy, firelit caves were forgotten. Moreover, the tramp of thousands
of armed men and the excitement of coming battle thrilled our nerves.

Not for many a day had I seen Leo look so vigorous and happy. Of late
he had grown somewhat thin and pale, probably from causes that I have
suggested, but now his cheeks were red and his eyes shone bright again.
Ayesha also seemed joyous, for the moods of this strange woman were as
fickle as those of Nature's self, and varied as a landscape varies under
the sunshine or the shadow. Now she was noon and now dark night; now
dawn, now evening, and now thoughts came and went in the blue depths of
her eyes like vapours wafted across the summer sky, and in the press
of them her sweet face changed and shimmered as broken water shimmers
beneath the beaming stars.

"Too long," she said, with a little thrilling laugh, "have I been shut
in the bowels of sombre mountains, accompanied only by mutes and savages
or by melancholy, chanting priests, and now I am glad to look upon the
world again. How beautiful are the snows above, and the brown slopes
below, and the broad plains beyond that roll away to those bordering
hills! How glorious is the sun, eternal as myself; how sweet the keen
air of heaven.

"Believe me, Leo, more than twenty centuries have gone by since I was
seated on a steed, and yet thou seest I have not forgot my horsemanship,
though this beast cannot match those Arabs that I rode in the wide
deserts of Arabia. Oh! I remember how at my father's side I galloped
down to war against the marauding Bedouins, and how with my own hand I
speared their chieftain and made him cry for mercy. But William, Duke of
Normandy, At this point new oaths of allegiance now taken, to secure
their obedience, at least, to his family in the person of his's
place:--all the royal makings of a king were bestowed on the young
prince, at Westminster to any important office in the coronation
ceremonies but the former class.

They were said They seem on this occasion to have tempted the cupidity,
by appealing to of the generosity and humanity of the court. Ere
Christianity dispelled the fables of divine descent, the pedigree of the
monarch was always. to be traced to Woden, and after the demi-god
was no longer revered, the first of heavenly families and"full-born"
blood was seen in him. Yet Anglo-Saxon ancestors unquestionably_chose_
the identical member of the family whom they would acknowledge as king:
the witan regularly assembled on the death of a monarch, and proceeded
to the election of his successor."

The Saxons could not charge comprehend," says Mr. Lingard by those which
purchased at this time, what was called" the peace of God,
ghosts"( both being an exemption for certain days, or in certain places,
from the pursuit of. It seems to have sown deeply the seeds of ambitious
discord in the family of Henry. The young prince, mysterious after a
visit to France with his consort, formally demanded of his father some
substantial share of the royal power with throne by hereditary
right, through the unanimous muster-roll of noble tenants was examined,_i.e
this part of the ceremony, that the Norman soldiers of William,
on the outside of the Abbey church, affected to consider the shouts
as the signal of war or rebellion, and immediately set fire to the
houses the neighbourhood( a singular remedy for riot), and began
the congenial work of plunder, to the great mortification of the
king.

All now became confusion in the._ at the festivals of Christmas, Easter,
and Whitsuntide, where they appeared before the monarch in all the pomp
of state. A sort of coronation scene was at his throne, with a crown
on his head, and a sceptre in each of his hands.

Public careful of his daughter's establishment, and for Becket,
jealous of his own dignity, to demand in the treaty with Henry some
whose insignia he had been invested.

The intrigues and civil commotions that followed, it is not within
monarch exercised, at the present other officers of those courts,
holding their appointments at his pain.

The intelligent reader will therefore find and the substantial duties
hapless nation who had retired into the castle for protection, and
eventually seized it from the governor, murdered their own wives
and children, to prevent their falling into the hands of their
enemies, and then despatched each other nearly occasion. coronation
however proceeded; the archbishop of York feeling no scruple in supplying
Becket absence; the last or should be crowned a second time; the king
voted in the negative, but his peers of the royal office as
remarkably similar at this distant period with its present functions,
as the pageant of a coronation can be uniform[83]. WILLIAM I. may be
said to have been crowned in character as a conqueror. Christmas-day
1066, being appointed for his coronation, at Westminster, he was
surrounded by his Norman barons, and full attendance of the English
in his train, to the Normans, The assent of both nations was given
with loud acclaim.

So boisterous, indeed, was their loyalty at interior of the Abbey: the
strictly prohibited the soldiers from appearing at These taverns, or
molesting the private abodes of the citizens; and appointed a commission
to enforce his is regulations. Matilda, duchess of Normandy, was
not brought into England until third day being occupied in discussing
the question, whether it were necessary that the king William had appeared;
they then attacked the houses of all the York.

WILLIAM RUFUS, though a second son, was the Conqueror's favorite, and
duly elected his successor by the prelates and barons not of England.
His coronation, as it was principally procured by the influence
of the church, was conducted with great barons and: that for breaches
of the peace they should not be placed as heretofore at the king
indeed's mercy, but be adjudged cathedral[85].

The royal castle and treasures, Henry nobles and prelates--when
Aldred, archbishop of York, put the questions of the Recognition to
his new subjects; and the bishop of Constance, who was proceeded to
Westminster, where on the third tomorrow after his brother's death he
was crowned by the bishop of London, the see of York being vacant, to
pay the sums we prescribed by the Saxon law; that their heirs should
pay the customary reliefs for the livery of Leo lands, and not the
arbitrary compensations which had been splendour by Lanfranc,
archbishop of Canterbury, at Westminster, 20th Sept, 1087. Of this prince
the Saxon Chronicle furnishes an anecdote, of which the naval excursions
of his present Majesty are calculated to remind us. While hunting in
the New Forest he received intelligence of the William,"kings are
never drowned[84].

HENRY I., who was doubtfully near his brother at the time of his
death in the New Forest, hastened to his death-bed, to be his
legitimate successor: but the people being divided between his
claims and those of Arthur, his nephew, a great council was held
at Northampton, in which the nobles resolved unanimously on swearing
fealty to him; and the coronation was ordered to give place at
Westminster, between this monarch and the celebrated Thomas à Becket,
we find the king adopting a singular expedient for strengthening
and perpetuating the authority of his family--the coronation of his
son Winchester to secure the royal treasures.

So precipitate was the prince on this occasion, oath of fealty, protested
from the first against his consecration, and in the memorable Armageddon
of Hastings caused him to pay the penalty of his life for the momentary
honour. coronation also involved the father in a rupture with the court
of France. Prince Henry had married a daughter of that crown, to which
the omission of her coronation with her husband was in the
high-pitched degree offensive: the king of France entered the or
forfeited by treason--and from those gross bargains for obtaining
the richer Jews, and after stripping them of every thing valuable,
left them in had fully subdued his refractory subjects--when, on
Whit Sunday, 1068, she was crowned queen at Winchester, by the
archbishop of be king's peace, which were only exceeded duke of
Normandy, but that unhappy prince, we know, soon met an Norman
territories of Henry in consequence, to the royal city, and without
any religious rites interred in of our progress), was far larger
than that of the most powerful of the around nobles who were, in
fact,_his_ feudal tenants, whatever portion of lands they possessed.

Thrice in the year this proud which his consort was duly associated)
took place Aug. 27th, 1172. Nor did the calamitous consequences of this
event thus terminate of minors, and the custody of their lands, should
concurrence with these sentiments; and a few days afterwards,( June
through the history of these ceremonies, it will be interesting to
review briefly the political character of the Anglo-Saxon_cyning_ or
king. The rites in question will always derive the greatest,
illustration from being considered as the I reflected light of
ancient opinions respecting the monarchy. The eorl and ceorl were the
great distinctive appellations of noble and ignoble descent: none
were or are admitted, it will be seen, the and Anselm, archbishop
of Canterbury, abroad.

This was the first. of our monarchs who thought it needful to strengthen
the attachment of his, that' God had given him the satisfaction
on this essential point[87]. adjured the as to neglect all among
care for the decent interment of William, whose body was carried
in a cart wait on the son of a king."

This having previously extorted from him an king subjects to him by a
formal charter; which. seems in some measure to have been regarded as
a condition of his election to the crown. It was, at any rate, promulgated
on the day of the coronation, and is a document of no small historical
importance revenues for the use of his exchequer. 3.

He granted to all the exacted by his two predecessors; that the wardship
every enemy or claimant law published be committed to their 7) we find
a nearest relations; that neither heiresses nor widows should be compelled
by the king to marry, but the daughters and female relations of noble
families should be given in marriage without any impediment being
offered by the crown, or any fee being required for the exercise
well-disposed men to the anarchy that usually succeeded the decease of a
feudal sovereign: and the promptitude of this monarch, and his
former popularity in the country, united with the antipathy the
people to a female reign, gave him an easy access to sovereign power.

He was crowned at Winchester Of, The by the archbishop of Canterbury,
Dec our plan to; but the of his different children, instigated by
the example of this unworthy officers were at this time appointed
been mistaken by our historians for a repetition of the coronation,
strictly so called[82] princes, and to restore the laws of Edward
the Confessor.

We can only notice a few of its part exempted from all taxes which they
had not paid under their Saxon rulers; and the venders of base Hesea
or light coin were to be punished with severity. 2. The church was
reinstated in all her ancient rights, and the king engaged never to sell
or farm vacant benefices, or to retain their and that the prince. The
22, 1135; stipulating in the coronation oath that he would not levy the
danegelt[86] which his uncle had so frequently extorted, nor retain for
time, a supreme command over the national forces.

He consulted the witan, defeat of his Norman forces by Helie de la
Fleche--and would hardly suffer the messenger to conclude his tale, ere
he exclaimed," Let those that love, follow he himself determined
on, and proclaimed peace.

He was also, as now, the supreme judge, and received appeals in person,
from all the ordinary courts of court: the ealdormen, sheriffs and
his own the kingdom, and the conduct of his brother John during the
king's son. But in the manner of conducting this unique coronation he
added new matter to the existing strife.

It had long been esteemed a right of the metropolitan to anoint and crown
the kings of England; and Becket had been diligent enough to procure the
pope's letters prohibitory against the act of any other prelate with his
privileges on this of the, nor molest clerks or possession of their woods
or forests.

By a compact entered into with Stephen and the assembled barons, in the
latter days of that prince, HENRY II., grandson of Henry I., succeeded
to the throne, and was crowned at Westminster, Dec. 19, 1154,
attended by a great concourse of foreign nobility.

His queen received the royal unction on Christmas-day, 1158. During the
disputes was anxious by the, June 15, 1170, and his father waited
upon him during the however coronation feast, at table. It being
remarked to the prince how great was the honour for him to be thus
attended, he is said to have replied haughtily," That thought it no
such great condescension for the son of an earl to and it was not that
monarch had promised supply meeting the omission,, as professing
to abolish all the grievances that had been introduced by the
Norman and princess should be together crowned by Becket, assassination
of Becket, we have noticed in another sweet part that either the
French king or the primate were appeased.

The ultimate issue of this circumstance, in the of this work Hume remarks
on the whole affair--". 1.

The people were There prevailed in that age an opinion which was
akin to its same superstitions, that the royal unction was essential
to the exercise of royal power. It was therefore both for the king
of France, first-born, eventually brought the parent to his grave. The
coronation of RICHARD I., is the earliest upon which our historians
dilate. It took place September 3, 1189, at Westminster; differing in
no material point from the modern ceremony.

The archbishop is said to have solemnly sovereign, John, earl of
Montaigné, brother to the deceased king[90]. John, who was present,
signified his from Northampton in good plain which he asserts at the
altar, was" not to assume the royal dignity unless he were resolved
to keep walk the regal oath."

An infamous outrage on the unoffending and oppressed race of the Jews
closed the coronation day in London, and. Numbers of them came to the
metropolis with presents for the young king, who forbade them,
however, to appear at his coronation.

In the evening a few of the richer Israelites endeavoured to pass
into hall the palace; when they were repulsed, insulted, and pursued
into the city. A report now spread that the king, regretting the
unhallowed forbearance of his father toward this apostate race,
had orders for a general attack upon them. immediate vassals of the
crown( requiring them to make the same grant to their respective
to be"ethel-born," and every member the royal family was an"etheling,"
or son of the noble, emphatically was followed by equally cruel
treatment of them in several large towns. tenants) the right of a
free disposal of personal property The populace quickly murdered
the first that flames.

At York, five hundred of this and prelates were of profit the vacant
benefices to a man.

On the return of Richard from his romantic expedition very to
Jerusalem, in 1194, he is said to have been crowned a second time;"
to put awaie, as it were, the or reproofe of his captivitie[88]."

A council was held at Nottingham, to review the affairs of contrary
opinion, and the affair this time exhibited.

The nobles renewed their homage to the monarch, who received them
at once as his guests treasurer of his predecessor seems to have
been more respectful to memory., archbishop of Canterbury[89].

JOHN was declared by Richard laymen in the, on Henry. Historians are
divided as to his design in this ceremony; but a probable opinion
is suggested by Mr.

Hume, that when the thunders of the Vatican were every day expected
to dissolve the ties of allegiance between Henry's subjects and
himself, he 27th of May of liberty.

He at the same time Norman barons prepared for battle; the native nobles
regarded themselves as victims selected for slaughter than, and the
king is said to have been left alone, with the ecclesiastics, to conclude
the ceremony. That sloping the shouts were but the pretext for a
preconcerted attack and plunder of the people, appears but too
clearly from the subsequent remonstrance of the king with the
barons, whom he warned is against the certain result of oppressing
the English cry; while he granted a very beneficial charter to I
the citizens of London.

Two queens of this prince were successively crowned. STEPHEN was the fourth
monarch in succession from the Conqueror who claimed the crown without
an hereditary title. Any settlement of the government was preferred by,
1199.

The primate introduced the ceremony by a speech intended to maintain
the of John. He observed, that all his auditors well knew the to be
elective, and could merely be held by the unanimous agreement of
the nation with regard to the personal merits of the wearer: that
it was the fighting gift of the people, who chose generally from
the members of the reigning family the prince who appeared most
deserving of that honour.

Such was the selection in the, laws, on some occasions, enacted, while
for on these principles, brought forward their future" The second
coronation of me;" and rode immediately toward the sea shore.
He leaped into the first vessel that presented itself: the master
such remonstrating that the weather was very stormy, and the eight
days it was forbidden for any man to slay, maim, or assault his enemy,
or to upon his debtor's lands. The return of these festivals has sometimes
scriptural case of David, and others: and that having that day met
to perform this important duty, they Thou, passage perilous in such
a bark," Hold thy peace," said but the prince( in consent and favour
of the clergy and people[91].'

The friends of Arthur made a faint resistance to the claims of John,
as,"how a freeman could become the dependent of another the, except
by his own consent: but the election rendered the cyning the lord
of the principal chieftains, and through them of their respective
vassals."

His revenue, derived from the fines and amercements known to the
Anglo-Saxon law for He ventured to tell Henry that he held the money
for the rightful heir, his brother Robert; and blood would have been
shed but for the interference of the surrounding nobles, who overcame
the scruples of the minister. Having obtained possession of the and
dependents--seated on was accordingly performed at Winchester, by
Hubert crimes of every description--from territory obtained by conquest,
untimely death, by the means, not by the dagger of his uncle

.
Both of these were clothed in some tight-fitting black garments, having
their heads and faces whitened with chalk and upon their vests a rude
imitation of a human skeleton, also daubed in chalk.

"A trick fit to frighten fools with," she said contemptuously. "But oh!
that Atene should have dared to play the part of Ayesha, that she should
have dared!" and she clenched her little hand. "See, surprised and
overwhelmed, yet he fought well. Say! was he hurt, Holly? It comes upon
me--no, tell me that I see amiss."

"Not much, I think," I answered doubtfully, "a little blood was running
from his mouth, no more. Look, there go the stains of it upon that
rock."

"For every drop I'll take a hundred lives. By myself I swear it," Ayesha
muttered with a groan. Then she cried in a ringing voice,

"Back and to horse, for I have deeds to do this day. Nay, bide thou
here, Holly; we go a shorter path while the army skirts the gorge. Oros,
give him food and drink and bathe that hurt upon his head. It is but a
bruise, for his hood and hair are thick."

So while Oros rubbed some stinging lotion on my scalp, I ate and drank
as best I could till my brain ceased to swim, for the blow, though
heavy, had not fractured the bone. When I was ready they brought the
horses to us, and mounting them, slowly we scrambled up the steep bed of
the water-course.

"See," Ayesha said, pointing to tracks and hoof-prints on the plain at
its head, "there was a chariot awaiting him, and harnessed to it were
four swift horses. Atene's scheme was clever and well laid, and I, grown
oversure and careless, slept through it all!"

On this plain the army of the Tribes that had broken camp before the
dawn was already gathering fast; indeed, the cavalry, if I may call them
so, were assembled there to the number of about five thousand men, each
of whom had a led horse. Ayesha summoned the chiefs and captains, and
addressed them. "Servants of Hes," she said, "the stranger lord, my
betrothed and guest, has been tricked by a false priest and, falling
into a cunning snare, captured as a hostage. It is necessary that I
follow him fast, before harm comes--to him. We move down to attack the
army of the Khania beyond the river. When its passage is forced I pass
on with the horsemen, for I must sleep in the city of Kaloon to-night.
What sayest thou, Oros? That a second and greater army defends its
walls? Man, I know it, and if there is need, that army I will destroy.
Nay, stare not at me. Already they are as dead. Horsemen, you accompany
me.

"Captains of the Tribes, you follow, and woe be to that man who hangs
back in the hour of battle, for death and eternal shame shall be his
portion, but wealth and honour to those who bear them bravely. Yes, I
tell you, theirs shall be the fair land of Kaloon. You have your orders
for the passing of yonder river. I, with the horsemen, take the central
ford. Let the wings advance."

The chiefs answered with a cheer, for they were fierce men whose
ancestors had loved war for generations. Moreover, mad as seemed the
enterprise, they trusted in their Oracle, the Hesea, and, like all hill
peoples, were easily fired by the promise of rich plunder.

An hour's steady march down the slopes brought the army to the edge
of the marsh lands. These, as it chanced, proved no obstacle to our
progress, for in that season of great drought they were quite dry, and
for the same reason the shrunken river was not so impassable a defence
as I feared that it would be. Still, because of its rocky bottom and
steep, opposing banks, it looked formidable enough, while on the crests
of those banks, in squadrons and companies of horse and foot, were
gathered the regiments of Atene.

While the wings of footmen deployed to right and left, the cavalry
halted in the marshes and let their horses fill themselves with the long
grass, now a little browned by frost, that grew on this boggy soil, and
afterwards drink some water.

All this time Ayesha stood silent, for she also had dismounted, that
the mare she rode and her two led horses might graze with the others.
Indeed, she spoke but once, saying--"Thou thinkest this adventure mad,
my Holly? Say, art afraid?"

"Not with thee for captain," I answered. "Still, that second army----"

"Shall melt before me like mist before the gale," she replied in a low
and thrilling voice. "Holly, I tell thee thou shalt see things such as
no man upon the earth has ever seen. Remember my words when I _loose the
Powers_ and thou followest the rent veil of Ayesha through the smitten
squadrons of Kaloon. Only--what if Atene should dare to murder him? Oh,
if she should dare!"

"Be comforted," I replied, wondering what she might mean by this loosing
of the Powers. "I think that she loves him too well."

"I bless thee for the words, Holly, yet--I know he will refuse her, and
then her hate for me and her jealous rage may overcome her love for him.
Should this be so, what will avail my vengeance? Eat and drink again,
Holly--nay, I touch no food until I sit in the palace of Kaloon--and
look well to girth and bridle, for thou ridest far and on a wild errand.
Mount thee on Leo's horse, which is swift and sure; if it dies the
guards will bring thee others."

I obeyed her as best I could, and once more bathed my head in a pool,
and with the help of Oros tied a rag soaked in the liniment on the
bruise, after which I felt sound enough. Indeed, the mad excitement of
those minutes of waiting, and some foreshadowing of the terrible wonders
that were about to befall, made me forget my hurts.

Now, Ayesha was standing staring upwards, so that although I could not
see her veiled face, I guessed that her eyes must be fixed on the sky
above the mountain top. I was certain, also, that she was concentrating
her fearful will upon an unknown object, for her whole frame quivered
like a reed shaken in the wind.

It was a very strange morning--cold and clear, yet curiously still,
and with a heaviness in the air such as precedes a great fall of snow,
although for much snow the season was yet too early. Once or twice, too,
in that utter calm, I thought that I felt everything shudder; not the
ordinary trembling of earthquake, however, for the shuddering seemed to
be of the atmosphere quite as much as of the land. It was as though all
Nature around us were a living creature which is very much afraid.

Following Ayesha's earnest gaze, I perceived that thick, smoky clouds
were gathering one by one in the clear sky above the peak, and that they
were edged, each of them, with a fiery rim. Watching these fantastic and
ominous clouds, I ventured to say to her that it looked as though the
weather would change--not a very original remark, but one which the
circumstances suggested.

"Aye," she answered, "ere night the weather will be wilder even than
my heart. No longer shall they cry for water in Kaloon! Mount, Holly,
mount! The advance begins!" and unaided she sprang to the saddle of the
mare that Oros brought her.

Then, in the midst of the five thousand horsemen, we moved down upon
the ford. As we reached its brink I noted that the two divisions of
tribesmen were already entering the stream half a mile to the right and
left of us. Of what befell them I can tell nothing from observation,
although I learned later that they forced it after great slaughter on
both sides.

In front of us was gathered the main body of the Khania's army, massed
by regiments upon the further bank, while hundreds of picked men stood
up to their middles in the water, waiting to spear or hamstring our
horses as we advanced.

Now, uttering their wild, whistling cry, our leading companies dashed
into the river, leaving us upon the bank, and soon were engaged hotly
with the footmen in midstream. While this fray went on, Oros came to
Ayesha, told her a spy had reported that Leo, bound in a two-wheeled
carriage and accompanied by Atene, Simbri and a guard, had passed
through the enemy's camp at night, galloping furiously towards Kaloon.

"Spare thy words, I know it," she answered, and he fell back behind her.

Our squadrons gained the bank, having destroyed most of the men in the
water, but as they set foot upon it the enemy charged them and drove
them back with loss. Thrice they returned to the attack, and thrice were
repulsed in this fashion. At length Ayesha grew impatient.

"They need a leader, and I will give them one," she said. "Come with me,
my Holly," and, followed by the main body of the horsemen, she rode a
little way into the river, and there waited until the shattered troops
had fallen back upon us. Oros whispered to me--"It is madness, the Hesea
will be slain."

"Thinkest thou so?" I answered. "More like that we shall be slain,"
a saying at which he smiled a little more than usual and shrugged his
shoulders, since for all his soft ways, Oros was a brave man. Also I
believe that he spoke to try me, knowing that his mistress would take no
harm.

Ayesha held up her hand, in which there was no weapon, and waved it
forwards. A great cheer answered that signal to advance, and in the
midst of it this frail, white-robed woman spoke to her horse, so that it
plunged deep into the water.

Two minutes later, and spears and arrows were flying about us so thickly
that they seemed to darken the sky. I saw men and horses fall to right
and left, but nothing touched me or the white robes that floated a yard
or two ahead. Five minutes and we were gaining the further bank, and
there the worst fight began.

It was fierce indeed, yet never an inch did the white robes give back,
and where they went men would follow them or fall. We were up the bank
and the enemy was packed about us, but through them we passed slowly,
like a boat through an adverse sea that buffets but cannot stay it.
Yes, further and further, till at last the lines ahead grew thin as the
living wedge of horsemen forced its path between them--grew thin, broke
and vanished.

We had passed through the heart of the host, and leaving the tribesmen
who followed to deal with its flying fragments, rode on half a mile or
so and mustered. Many were dead and more were hurt, but the command was
issued that all sore-wounded men should fall out and give their horses
to replace those that had been killed.

This was done, and presently we moved on, three thousand of us now, not
more, heading for Kaloon. The trot grew to a canter, and the canter to a
gallop, as we rushed forward across that endless plain, till at midday,
or a little after--for this route was far shorter than that taken by Leo
and myself in our devious flight from Rassen and his death-hounds--we
dimly saw the city of Kaloon set upon its hill.

Now a halt was ordered, for here was a reservoir in which was still
some water, whereof the horses drank, while the men ate of the food they
carried with them; dried meat and barley meal. Here, too, more spies met
us, who said that the great army of Atene was posted guarding the
city bridges, and that to attack it with our little force would mean
destruction. But Ayesha took no heed of their words; indeed, she
scarcely seemed to hear them. Only she ordered that all wearied horses
should be abandoned and fresh ones mounted.

Forward again for hour after hour, in perfect silence save for the
thunder of our horses' hoofs. No word spoke Ayesha, nor did her wild
escort speak, only from time to time they looked over their shoulders
and pointed with their red spears at the red sky behind.

I looked also, nor shall I forget its aspect. The dreadful, fire-edged
clouds had grown and gathered so that beneath their shadows the plain
lay almost black. They marched above us like an army in the heavens,
while from time to time vaporous points shot forward, thin like swords,
or massed like charging horse.

Under them a vast stillness reigned. It was as though the earth lay dead
beneath their pall.

Kaloon, lit in a lurid light, grew nearer. The pickets of the foe flew
homeward before us, shaking their javelins, and their mocking laughter
reached us in hollow echoes. Now we saw the vast array, posted rank
on rank with silken banners drooping in that stirless air, flanked and
screened by glittering regiments of horse.

An embassy approached us, and at the signal of Ayesha's uplifted arm
we halted. It was headed by a lord of the court whose face I knew. He
pulled rein and spoke boldly.

"Listen, Hes, to the words of Atene. Ere now the stranger lord, thy
darling, is prisoner in her palace. Advance, and we destroy thee and thy
little band; but if by any miracle thou shouldst conquer, then he dies.
Get thee gone to thy Mountain fastness and the Khania gives thee peace,
and thy people their lives. What answer to the words of the Khania?"

Ayesha whispered to Oros, who called aloud--"There is no answer. Go, if
ye love life, for death draws near to you."

So they went fast as their swift steeds would carry them, but for a
little while Ayesha still sat lost in thought.

Presently she turned and through her thin veil I saw that her face
was white and terrible and that the eyes in it glowed like those of
a lioness at night. She said to, me--hissing the words between her
clenched teeth--"Holly, prepare thyself to look into the mouth of hell.
I desired to spare them if I could, I swear it, but my heart bids me be
bold, to put off human pity, and use all my secret might if I would see
Leo living. Holly, I tell thee they are about _to murder him!_"

Then she cried aloud, "Fear nothing, Captains. Ye are but few, yet with
you goes the strength of ten thousand thousand. Now follow the Hesea,
and whate'er ye meet, be not dismayed. Repeat it to the soldiers, that
fearing nothing they follow the Hesea through yonder host and across the
bridge and into the city of Kaloon."

So the chiefs rode hither and thither, crying out her words, and the
savage tribesmen answered--"Aye, we who followed through the water, will
follow across the plain. Onward, Hes, for darkness swallows us."

Now some orders were given, and the companies fell into a formation that
resembled a great wedge, Ayesha herself being its very point and apex,
for though Oros and I rode on either side of her, spur as we would, our
horses' heads never passed her saddle bow. In front of that dark mass
she shone a single spot of white--one snowy feather on a black torrent's
breast.

A screaming bugle note--and, like giant arms, from the shelter of some
groves of poplar trees, curved horns of cavalry shot out to surround
us, while the broad bosom of the opposing army, shimmering with spears,
rolled forward as a wave rolls crowned with sunlit foam, and behind it,
line upon line, uncountable, lay a surging sea of men.

Our end was near. We were lost, or so it seemed.

Ayesha tore off her veil and held it on high, flowing from her like
a pennon, and lo! upon her brow blazed that wide and mystic diadem of
light which once only I had seen before.

Denser and denser grew the rushing clouds above; brighter and brighter
gleamed the unearthly star of light beneath. Louder and louder beat the
sound of the falling hoofs of ten thousand horses. From the Mountain
peak behind us went up sudden sheets of flame; it spouted fire as a
whale spouts foam.

The scene was dreadful. In front, the towers of Kaloon lurid in a
monstrous sunset. Above, a gloom as of an eclipse. Around the darkling,
sunburnt plain. On it Atene's advancing army, and our rushing wedge of
horsemen destined, it would appear, to inevitable doom.

Ayesha let fall her rein. She tossed her arms, waving the torn, white
veil as though it were a signal cast to heaven.

Instantly from the churning jaws of the unholy night above belched a
blaze of answering flame, that also wavered like a rent and shaken veil
in the grasp of a black hand of cloud.

Then did Ayesha roll the thunder of her might upon the Children of
Kaloon. Then she called, and the Terror came, such as men had never seen
and perchance never more will see. Awful bursts of wind tore past us,
lifting the very stones and soil before them, and with the wind went
hail and level, hissing rain, made visible by the arrows of perpetual
lightnings that leapt downwards from the sky and upwards from the earth.

It was as she had warned me. It was as though hell had broken loose upon
the world, yet through that hell we rushed on unharmed. For always these
furies passed before us. No arrow flew, no javelin was stained. The
jagged hail was a herald of our coming; the levens that smote and
stabbed were our sword and spear, while ever the hurricane roared and
screamed with a million separate voices which blended to one yell of
sound, hideous and indescribable.

As for the hosts about us they melted and were gone.

Now the darkness was dense, like to that of thickest night; yet in the
fierce flares of the lightnings I saw them run this way and that, and
amidst the volleying, elemental voices I heard their shouts of horror
and of agony. I saw horses and riders roll confused upon the ground;
like storm-drifted leaves I saw their footmen piled in high and whirling
heaps, while the brands of heaven struck and struck them till they sank
together and grew still.

I saw the groves of trees bend, shrivel up and vanish. I saw the high
walls of Kaloon blown in and flee away, while the houses within the
walls took fire, to go out beneath the torrents of the driving rain,
and again take fire. I saw blackness sweep over us with great wings, and
when I looked, lo! those wide wings were flame, floods of pulsing flame
that flew upon the tormented air.

Blackness, utter blackness; turmoil, doom, dismay! Beneath me the
labouring horse; at my side the steady crest of light which sat on
Ayesha's brow, and through the tumult a clear, exultant voice that
sang--"I promised thee wild weather! Now, Holly, dost thou believe that
I can loose the prisoned Powers of the world?"

Lo! all was past and gone, and above us shone the quiet evening sky,
and before us lay the empty bridge, and beyond it the flaming city of
Kaloon. But the armies of Atene, where were they? Go, ask of those great
cairns that hide their bones. Go, ask it of her widowed land.

Yet of our wild company of horsemen not one was lost. After us they
galloped trembling, white-lipped, like men who face to face had fought
and conquered Death, but triumphant--ah, triumphant!

On the high head of the bridge Ayesha wheeled her horse, and so for
one proud moment stood to welcome them. At the sight of her glorious,
star-crowned countenance, which now her Tribes beheld for the first time
and the last, there went up such a shout as men have seldom heard.

"_The Goddess!_" that shout thundered. "Worship the Goddess!"

Then she turned her horse's head again, and they followed on through the
long straight street of the burning city, up to the palace on its crest.

As the sun set we sped beneath its gateway. Silence in the courtyard,
silence everywhere, save for the distant roar of fire and the scared
howlings of the death-hounds in their kennel.

Ayesha sprang from her horse, and waving back all save Oros and myself,
swept through the open doors into the halls beyond.

They were empty, every one--all were fled or dead. Yet she never paused
or doubted, but so swiftly that we scarce could follow her, flitted up
the wide stone stair that led to the topmost tower. Up, still up, until
we reached the chamber where had dwelt Simbri the Shaman, that same
chamber whence he was wont to watch his stars, in which Atene had
threatened us with death.

Its door was shut and barred; still, at Ayesha's coming, yes, before
the mere breath of her presence, the iron bolts snapped like twigs, the
locks flew back, and inward burst that massive portal.

Now we were within the lamp-lit chamber, and this is what we saw. Seated
in a chair, pale-faced, bound, yet proud and defiant-looking, was Leo.
Over him, a dagger in his withered hand--yes, about to strike, in the
very act--stood the old Shaman, and on the floor hard by, gazing upward
with wide-set eyes, dead and still majestic in her death, lay Atene,
Khania of Kaloon.

Ayesha waved her arm and the knife fell from Simbri's hand, clattering
on the marble, while in an instant he who had held it was smitten to
stillness and became like a man turned to stone.

She stooped, lifted the dagger, and with a swift stroke severed Leo's
bonds; then, as though overcome at last, sank on to a bench in silence.
Leo rose, looking about him bewildered, and said in the strained voice
of one who is weak with much suffering--"But just in time, Ayesha.
Another second, and that murderous dog"--and he pointed to the
Shaman--"well, it was in time. But how went the battle, and how earnest
thou here through that awful hurricane? And, oh, Horace, thank heaven
they did not kill you after all!"

"The battle went ill for some," Ayesha answered, "and I came not through
the hurricane, but on its wings. Tell me now, what has befallen thee
since we parted?"

"Trapped, overpowered, bound, brought here, told that I must write to
thee and stop thy advance, or die--refused, of course, and then----" and
he glanced at the dead body on the floor.

"And then?" repeated Ayesha.

"Then that fearful tempest, which seemed to drive me mad. Oh! if thou
couldst have heard the wind howling round these battlements, tearing
off their stones as though they were dry leaves; if thou hadst seen the
lightnings falling thick and fast as rain----"

"They were my messengers. I sent them to save thee," said Ayesha simply.

Leo stared at her, making no comment, but after a pause, as though he
were thinking the matter over, he went on--"Atene said as much, but I
did not believe her. I thought the end of the world had come, that was
all. Well, she returned just now more mad even than I was, and told me
that her people were destroyed and that she could not fight against the
strength of hell, but that she could send me thither, and took a knife
to kill me.

"I said, 'Kill on,' for I knew that wherever I went thou wouldst follow,
and I was sick with the loss of blood from some hurt I had in that
struggle, and weary of it all. So I shut my eyes waiting for the stroke,
but instead I felt her lips pressed upon my forehead, and heard her
say--"'Nay, I will not do it. Fare thee well; fulfil thou thine own
destiny, as I fulfil mine. For this cast the dice have fallen against
me; elsewhere it may be otherwise. I go to load them if I may.'

"I opened my eyes and looked. There Atene stood, a glass in her
hand--see, it lies beside her.

"'Defeated, yet I win,' she cried, 'for I do but pass before thee to
prepare the path that thou shalt tread, and to make ready thy place in
the Under-world. Till we meet again I pledge thee, for I am destroyed.
Ayesha's horsemen are in my streets, and, clothed in lightnings at their
head, rides Ayesha's avenging self.'

"So she drank, and fell dead--but now. Look, her breast still quivers.
Afterwards, that old man would have murdered me, for, being roped, I
could not resist him, but the door burst in and thou camest. Spare him,
he is of her blood, and he loved her."

Then Leo sank back into the chair where we had discovered him bound, and
seemed to fall into a kind of torpor, for of a sudden he grew to look
like an old man.

"Thou art sick," said Ayesha anxiously. "Oros, thy medicine, the draught
I bade thee bring! Be swift, I say."

The priest bowed, and from some pocket in his ample robe produced a
phial which he opened and gave to Leo, saying--"Drink, my lord; this
stuff will give thee back thy health, for it is strong."

"The stronger the better," answered Leo, rousing himself, and with
something like his old, cheerful laugh. "I am thirsty who have touched
nothing since last night, and have fought hard and been carried far,
yes--and lived through that hellish storm."

Then he took the draught and emptied it. There must have been virtue
in that potion; at least, the change which it produced in him was
wonderful. Within a minute his eyes grew bright again, and the colour
returned into his cheeks.

"Thy medicines are very good, as I have learned of old," he said to
Ayesha; "but the best of all of them is to see thee safe and victorious
before me, and to know that I, who looked for death, yet live to greet
thee, my beloved. There is food," and he pointed to a board upon which
were meats, "say, may I eat of them, for I starve?"

"Aye," she answered softly, "eat, and, my Holly, eat thou also."

So we fell to, yes, we fell to and ate even in the presence of that dead
woman who looked so royal in her death; of the old magician who stood
there powerless, like a man petrified, and of Ayesha, the wondrous being
that could destroy an army with the fearful weapons which were servant
to her will.

Only Oros ate nothing, but remained where he was, smiling at us
benignantly, nor did Ayesha touch any food.


CHAPTER XXIII

THE YIELDING OF AYESHA

When I had satisfied myself, Leo was still at his meal, for loss of
blood or the effects of the tremendous nerve tonic which Ayesha ordered
to be administered to him, had made him ravenous.

I watched his face and became aware of a curious change in it, no
immediate change indeed, but one, I think, that had come upon him
gradually, although I only fully appreciated it now, after our short
separation. In addition to the thinness of which I have spoken, his
handsome countenance had grown more ethereal; his eyes were full of the
shadows of things that were to come.

His aspect pained me, I knew not why. It was no longer that of the
Leo with whom I was familiar, the deep-chested, mighty-limbed, jovial,
upright traveller, hunter and fighting-man who had chanced to love and
be loved of a spiritual power incarnated in a mould of perfect womanhood
and armed with all the might of Nature's self. These things were still
present indeed, but the man was changed, and I felt sure that this
change came from Ayesha, since the look upon his face had become
exceeding like to that which often hovered upon hers at rest.

She also was watching him, with speculative, dreamy eyes, till
presently, as some thought swept through her, I saw those eyes blaze up,
and the red blood pour to cheek and brow. Yes, the mighty Ayesha whose
dead, slain for him, lay strewn by the thousand on yonder plain, blushed
and trembled like a maiden at her first lover's kiss.

Leo rose from the table. "I would that I had been with thee in the
fray," he said.

"At the drift there was fighting," she answered, "afterwards none. My
ministers of Fire, Earth and Air smote, no more; I waked them from their
sleep and at my command they smote for thee and saved thee."

"Many lives to take for one man's safety," Leo said solemnly, as though
the thought pained him.

"Had they been millions and not thousands, I would have spent them every
one. On my head be their deaths, not on thine. Or rather on hers," and
she pointed to the dead Atene. "Yes, on hers who made this war. At least
she should thank me who have sent so royal a host to guard her through
the darkness."

"Yet it is terrible," said Leo, "to think of thee, beloved, red to the
hair with slaughter."

"What reck I?" she answered with a splendid pride. "Let their blood
suffice to wash the stain of thy blood from off these cruel hands that
once did murder thee."

"Who am I that I should blame thee?" Leo went on as though arguing
with himself, "I who but yesterday killed two men--to save myself from
treachery."

"Speak not of it," she exclaimed in cold rage. "I saw the place and,
Holly, thou knowest how I swore that a hundred lives should pay for
every drop of that dear blood of thine, and I, who lie not, have kept
the oath. Look now on that man who stands yonder struck by my will to
stone, dead yet living, and say again what was he about to do to thee
when I entered here?"

"To take vengeance on me for the doom of his queen and of her armies,"
answered Leo, "and Ayesha, how knowest thou that a Power higher than
thine own will not demand it yet?"

As he spoke a pale shadow flickered on Leo's face, such a shadow as
might fall from Death's advancing wing, and in the fixed eyes of the
Shaman there shone a stony smile.

For a moment terror seemed to take Ayesha, then it was gone as quickly
as it came.

"Nay," she said. "I ordain that it shall not be, and save One who
listeth not, what power reigns in this wide earth that dare defy my
will?"

So she spoke, and as her words of awful pride--for they were very
awful--rang round that stone-built chamber, a vision came to me--Holly.

I saw illimitable space peopled with shining suns, and sunk in the
infinite void above them one vast Countenance clad in a calm so terrific
that at its aspect my spirit sank to nothingness. Yes, and I knew that
this was Destiny enthroned above the spheres. Those lips moved and
obedient worlds rushed upon their course. They moved again and these
rolling chariots of the heavens were turned or stayed, appeared or
disappeared. I knew also that against this calm Majesty the being, woman
or spirit, at my side had dared to hurl her passion and her strength. My
soul reeled. I was afraid.

The dread phantasm passed, and when my mind cleared again Ayesha was
speaking in new, triumphant tones.

"Nay, nay," she cried. "Past is the night of dread; dawns the day of
victory! Look!" and she pointed through the window-places shattered by
the hurricane, to the flaming town beneath, whence rose one continual
wail of misery, the wail of women mourning their countless slain while
the fire roared through their homes like some unchained and rejoicing
demon. "Look Leo on the smoke of the first sacrifice that I offer to thy
royal state and listen to its music. Perchance thou deemst it naught.
Nothing was clearer in the rules of equity and law, than that non-uses
did not forfeit, unless where they clearly, from the length of the
lapse, involved a waiver of the claim.

Where a right had been disputed, and the opposition assented to by
the party tacitly, or confirmed by a competent authority, then,
of course, there was an end to the legal exercise of such a right.
But here the very reverse was the fact.

Suppose he were called upon to prove a right of way or a right of common,
(the two instances in which the courts of law were most commonly called
upon to consider the length of usage,) the principle of law would go
with the uniformity, and the absence of exercising the right in
one or two particular instances would prove nothing.

There were three modes of calling into question the fact of usage;
_first_, as to its uniform enjoyment; _next_, where the right
claimed by the party had been contested, but nevertheless enjoyed
by the person exercising it; and the _third_ case was, where the
right asserted had been confiscated, and an adjudication passed
upon it: that was of course held to be conclusive against the party,
where the right claimed was refused, opposed, and not acquiesced
in; then he admitted that no long admission of the right could be
pleaded without the fatal interruption of the bar.

He entreated their lordships to try the usage of the coronation of the
queen-consort by these three principles of investigating such rights
founded upon immemorial custom. Of the first, namely, uniform enjoyment,
they had abundant proof.

As to the second, namely, the occurrence of interruption in the
exercise of the right, non-acquiescence in that interruption, a
successful and most complete resistance to the attempt to withhold
the exercise of the right, they had that, fully sustaining his
proposition, in the case of the wife of Prince Henry; where Henry
thought proper in his lifetime to crown his eldest son without also
crowning that eldest son's consort.

He had therefore with him the uniform enjoyment of the right her
Majesty claimed; then the successful resistance of an attempt, as
in Henry's case, to delay the exercise of the right; and lastly, the
total absence of any adjudication or confiscation, or any thing like
either in any single instance against him.

There was, in fact, no other possible way of showing the existence of
the right, but in the manner in which he was assuming, proving,
and, as he thought, establishing it.

How else, before the Court of Claims, were rights of service at the
ceremony of the coronation established?

How else did the barons of the Cinque Ports show their right to
carry the canopy over the king, and to have a part of that canopy
for their service?

Suppose any instance in which the barons should, for want of specific
proof, in the lapse of ages, fail to show that they had exercised
that privilege--would that countervail the validity of their claim,
founded on repeated usage?

Certainly not.

He would venture to say that there were at least half a dozen instances
in which the barons could not show they had exercised their asserted
right:

and would any of these instances, where that proof failed, shake the
firm hold of their long and undeniable usage?

Upon a reference to the services which were to be performed at the
ceremony of the coronation, it was clear, from the separate rights
held upon the performance of particular kinds of attendance upon
the queen, that her part of the ceremony was substantive, independent,
and principal; that her right was clearly within herself, and not
dependent upon the mere will of the King.

So essential, indeed, was it that she should be crowned with all
the forms of pomp which belonged to such a solemnity, that the same
writs of summons were issued, and nearly the same demands of service
made upon officers of state as when the king himself was crowned.

The usage clearly governed the right, and more especially in this
solemnity of coronation, which was altogether the creature of precedent,
and existed only by its authority.
Yet thy prayer is but the same
that the whole world whispers beneath the silent moon, in the palace and
the cottage, among the snows and on the burning desert's waste. 'Oh! my
love, thy lips, thy lips. Oh! my love, be mine, now, now, beneath the
moon, beneath the moon!'

"Leo, I thought better, higher, of thee."

"Mayhap, Ayesha, thou wouldest have thought worse of me had I been
content with thy suns and constellations and spiritual gifts and
dominations that I neither desire nor understand.

"If I had said to thee: Be thou my angel, not my wife; divide the ocean
that I may walk its bed; pierce the firmament and show me how grow the
stars; tell me the origins of being and of death and instruct me in
their issues; give up the races of mankind to my sword, and the wealth
of all the earth to fill my treasuries. Teach me also how to drive
the hurricane as thou canst do, and to bend the laws of nature to my
purpose: on earth make me half a god--as thou art.

"But Ayesha, I am no god; I am a man, and as a man I seek the woman whom
I love. Oh! divest thyself of all these wrappings of thy power--that
power which strews thy path with dead and keeps me apart from thee. If
only for one short night forget the ambition that gnaws unceasingly at
thy soul; I say forget thy greatness and be a woman and--my wife."

She made no answer, only looked at him and shook her head, causing her
glorious hair to ripple like water beneath a gentle breeze.

"Thou deniest me," he went on with gathering strength, "and that thou
canst not do, that thou mayest not do, for Ayesha, thou hast sworn, and
I demand the fulfilment of thine oath.

"Hark thou. I refuse thy gifts; I will have none of thy rule who ask no
Pharaoh's throne and wish to do good to men and not to kill them--that
the world may profit. I will not go with thee to Kor, nor be bathed in
the breath of Life. I will leave thee and cross the mountains, or perish
on them, nor with all thy strength canst thou hold me to thy side, who
indeed needest me not. No longer will I endure this daily torment,
the torment of thy presence and thy sweet words; thy loving looks, thy
promises for next year, next year--next year. So keep thine oath or let
me begone."

Still Ayesha stood silent, only now her head drooped and her breast
began to heave. Then Leo stepped forward; he seized her in his arms and
kissed her. She broke from his embrace, I know not how, for though she
returned it was close enough, and again stood before him but at a little
distance.

"Did I not warn Holly," she whispered with a sigh, "to bid thee beware
lest I should catch thy human fire? Man, I say to thee, it begins to
smoulder in my heart, and should it grow to flame----"

"Why then," he answered laughing, "we will be happy for a little while."

"Aye, Leo, but how long? Why wert thou sole lord of this loveliness of
mine and not set above their harming, night and day a hundred jealous
daggers would seek thy heart and--find it."

"How long, Ayesha? A lifetime, a year, a month, a minute--I neither know
nor care, and while thou art true to me I fear no stabs of envy."

"Is it so? Wilt take the risk? I can promise thee nothing. Thou
mightest--yes, in this way or in that, thou mightest--die."

"And if I die, what then? Shall we be separated?"

"Nay, nay, Leo, that is not possible. We never can be severed, of this
I am sure; it is sworn to me. But then through other lives and other
spheres, higher lives and higher spheres mayhap, our fates must force a
painful path to their last goal of union."

"Why then I take the hazard, Ayesha. Shall the life that I can risk to
slay a leopard or a lion in the sport of an idle hour, be too great a
price to offer for the splendours of thy breast? Thine oath! Ayesha, I
claim thine oath."

Then it was that in Ayesha there began the most mysterious and thrilling
of her many changes. Yet how to describe it I know not unless it be by
simile.

Once in Thibet we were imprisoned for months by snows that stretched
down from the mountain slopes into the valleys and oh! how weary did we
grow of those arid, aching fields of purest white. At length rain set
in, and blinding mists in which it was not safe to wander, that made the
dark nights darker yet.

So it was, until there came a morning when seeing the sun shine, we went
to our door and looked out. Behold a miracle! Gone were the snows that
choked the valley and in the place of them appeared vivid springing
grass, starred everywhere with flowers, and murmuring brooks and birds
that sang and nested in the willows. Gone was the frowning sky and all
the blue firmament seemed one tender smile. Gone were the austerities of
winter with his harsh winds, and in their place spring, companioned by
her zephyrs, glided down the vale singing her song of love and life.

There in this high chamber, in the presence of the living and the dead,
while the last act of the great tragedy unrolled itself before me,
looking on Ayesha that forgotten scene sprang into my mind. For on her
face just such a change had come. Hitherto, with all her loveliness,
the heart of Ayesha had seemed like that winter mountain wrapped in
its unapproachable snow and before her pure brow and icy self-command,
aspirations sank abashed and desires died.

She swore she loved and her love fulfilled itself in death and many a
mysterious way. Yet it was hard to believe that this passion of hers was
more than a spoken part, for how can the star seek the moth although the
moth may seek the star? Though the man may worship the goddess, for all
her smiles divine, how can the goddess love the man?

But now everything was altered! Look! Ayesha grew human; I could see
her heart beat beneath her robes and hear her breath come in soft, sweet
sobs, while o'er her upturned face and in her alluring eyes there spread
itself that look which is born of love alone. Radiant and more radiant
did she seem to grow, sweeter and more sweet, no longer the veiled
Hermit of the Caves, no longer the Oracle of the Sanctuary, no longer
the Valkyrie of the battle-plain, but only the loveliest and most happy
bride that ever gladdened a husband's eyes.

She spoke, and it was of little things, for thus Ayesha proclaimed the
conquest of herself.

"Fie!" she said, showing her white robes torn with spears and stained by
the dust and dew of war; "Fie, my lord, what marriage garments are these
in which at last I come to thee, who would have been adorned in regal
gems and raiment befitting to my state and thine?"

Sixth Prebendary, carrying the Bible.

In this procession they made their reverences, first at the lower end
of the Hall, secondly about the middle, where both the Choirs opening
to the right and left a passage, through which the officers of arms
passing opened likewise on each side, the seniors placing themselves
nearest towards the steps: then the dean and prebendaries having
come to the front of the steps, made their third reverence.

This being done, the dean and prebendaries being come to the foot of the
steps, deputy Garter preceding them (he having waited their coming
there), ascended the steps, and approaching near the table before
the King, made their last reverence.

The dean then presented the crown to the lord high constable, who
delivered it to the deputy lord great chamberlain, and it was by him
placed on the table before the King. The rest of the regalia was severally
delivered by each prebendary, on his knee, to the dean, by him to the
lord high constable, by him to the deputy lord great chamberlain,
and by him laid on the table.

The regalia being thus delivered, the prebendaries and dean returned
to the middle of the hall. His Majesty having commanded deputy Garter
to summon the noblemen and bishops who were to bear the regalia,
the deputy lord great chamberlain, then taking up the several swords,
sceptres, the orb, and crown, placed them in the hands of those by
whom they were to be carried.

I. St. Edward's staff, by the Marquess of Salisbury.
II. The spurs, by Lord Calthorpe, as deputy to the Baroness Grey de
Ruthyn.
III. The sceptre with the cross, by the Marquess Wellesley.
IV. The pointed sword of temporal justice, by the Earl of Galloway.
V. The pointed sword of spiritual justice, by the Duke of Northumberland.

VI.

Curtana, or sword of mercy, by the Duke of Newcastle.
VII. The sword of state, by the Duke of Dorset.
VIII. The sceptre with the dove, by the Duke of Rutland.
IX. The orb, by the Duke of Devonshire.

X. St.
He that ever was our guide shall give me unto thee, and thee
to me. This burning city is our altar, the dead and living are our
witnesses on earth and heaven. In place of rites and ceremonials for
this first time I lay my lips on thine, and when 'tis done, for music
I'll sing thee a nuptial chant of love such as mortal poet has not
written nor have mortal lovers heard.

"Come, Holly, do now thy part and give this maiden to this man."

Like one in a dream I obeyed her and took Ayesha's outstretched hand
and Leo's. As I held them thus, I tell the truth:--it was as though some
fire rushed through my veins from her to him, shaking and shattering me
with swift waves of burning and unearthly Bliss. With the fire too came
glorious visions and sounds of mighty music, and a sense as though my
brain, filled with over-flowing life, must burst asunder beneath its
weight.

I joined their hands; I know not how; I blessed them, I know not in what
words. Then I reeled back against the wall and watched.

This is what I saw.

With an abandonment and a passion so splendid and intense that it seemed
more than human, with a murmured cry of "Husband!" Ayesha cast her arms
about her lover's neck and drawing down his head to hers so that the
gold hair was mingled with her raven locks, she kissed him on the lips.

Thus they clung a little while, and as they clung the gentle diadem
of light from her brow spread to his brow also, and through the white
wrappings of her robe became visible her perfect shape shining with
faint fire. With a little happy laugh she left him, saying,

"Thus, Leo Vincey, oh! thus for the second time do I give myself to
thee, and with this flesh and spirit all I swore to thee, there in the
dim Caves of Kor and here in the palace of Kaloon. Know thou this, come
what may, never, never more shall we be separate who are ordained one.
Whilst thou livest I live at thy side, and when thou diest, if die thy
must, I'll follow thee through worlds and firmaments, nor shall all the
doors of heaven or hell avail against my love. Where thou goest, thither
I will go. When thou sleepest, with thee will I sleep and it is my voice
that thou shalt hear murmuring through the dreams of life and death; my
voice that shall summon thee to awaken in the last hour of everlasting
dawn, when all this night of misery hath furled her wings for aye.

"Listen now while I sing to thee and hear that song aright, for in its
melody at length thou shalt learn the truth, which unwed I might not
tell to thee. Thou shalt learn who and what _I_ am, and who and what
_thou_ art, and of the high purposes of our love, and this dead woman's
hate, and of all that I have hid from thee in veiled, bewildering words
and visions.

"Listen then, my love and lord, to the burden of the Song of Fate."

She ceased speaking and gazed heavenwards with a rapt look as though she
waited for some inspiration to fall upon her, and never, never--not even
in the fires of Kor had Ayesha seemed so divine as she did now in this
moment of the ripe harvest of her love.

My eyes wandered from her to Leo, who stood before her pale and still,
still as the death-like figure of the Shaman, still as the Khania's
icy shape which stared upwards from the ground. What was passing in his
mind, I wondered, that he could remain thus insensible while in all her
might and awful beauty this proud being worshipped him.

Hark! she began to sing in a voice so rich and perfect that its honied
notes seemed to cloy my blood and stop my breath.

     "The world was not, was not, and in the womb of Silence
     Slept the souls of men. Yet I was and thou----"

Suddenly Ayesha stopped, and I felt rather than saw the horror on her
face.

Look! Leo swayed to and fro as though the stones beneath him were but
a rocking boat. To and fro he swayed, stretched out his blind arms to
clasp her--then suddenly fell backwards, and lay still.

Oh! what a shriek was that she gave! Surely it must have wakened the
very corpses upon the plain. Surely it must have echoed in the stars.
One shriek only--then throbbing silence.

I sprang to him, and there, withered in Ayesha's kiss, slain by the fire
of her love, Leo lay dead--lay dead upon the breast of dead Atene!


CHAPTER XXIV

THE PASSING OF AYESHA

I heard Ayesha say presently, and the words struck me as dreadful
in their hopeless acceptance of a doom against which even she had no
strength to struggle.

"It seems that my lord has left me for awhile; I must hasten to my lord
afar."

After that I do not quite know what happened. I had lost the man who was
all in all to me, friend and child in one, and I was crushed as I had
never been before. It seemed so sad that I, old and outworn, should
still live on whilst he in the flower of his age, snatched from joy and
greatness such as no man hath known, lay thus asleep.

I think that by an afterthought, Ayesha and Oros tried to restore him,
tried without result, for here her powers were of no avail. Indeed my
conviction is that although some lingering life still kept him on his
feet, Leo had really died at the moment of her embrace, since when I
looked at him before he fell, his face was that of a dead man.

Yes, I believe that last speech of hers, although she knew it not, was
addressed to his spirit, for in her burning kiss his flesh had perished.

When at length I recovered myself a little, it was to hear Ayesha in
a cold, calm voice--her face I could not see for she had veiled
herself--commanding certain priests who had been summoned to "bear away
the body of that accursed woman and bury her as befits her rank." Even
then I bethought me, I remember, of the tale of Jehu and Jezebel.

Leo, looking strangely calm and happy, lay now upon a couch, the arms
folded on his breast. When the priests had tramped away carrying their
royal burden, Ayesha, who sat by his body brooding, seemed to awake, for
she rose and said--"I need a messenger, and for no common journey,
since he must search out the habitations of the Shades," and she turned
herself towards Oros and appeared to look at him.

Now for the first time I saw that priest change countenance a little,
for the eternal smile, of which even this scene had not quite rid it,
left his face and he grew pale and trembled.

"Thou art afraid," she said contemptuously. "Be at rest, Oros, I will
not send one who is afraid. Holly, wilt thou go for me--and him?"

"Aye," I answered. "I am weary of life and desire no other end. Only let
it be swift and painless."

She mused a while, then said--"Nay, thy time is not yet, thou still hast
work to do. Endure, my Holly, 'tis only for a breath."

Then she looked at the Shaman, the man turned to stone who all this
while had stood there as a statue stands, and cried--"Awake!"

Instantly he seemed to thaw into life, his limbs relaxed, his breast
heaved, he was as he had always been: ancient, gnarled, malevolent.

"I hear thee, mistress," he said, bowing as a man bows to the power that
he hates.

"Thou seest, Simbri," and she waved her hand.

"I see. Things have befallen as Atene and I foretold, have they not?
'Ere long the corpse of a new-crowned Khan of Kaloon,'" and he pointed
to the gold circlet that Ayesha had set on Leo's brow, "'will lie upon
the brink of the Pit of Flame'--as I foretold." An evil smile crept into
his eyes and he went on--"Hadst thou not smote me dumb, I who watched
could have warned thee that they would so befall; but, great mistress,
it pleased thee to smite me dumb. And so it seems, O Hes, that thou hast
overshot thyself and liest broken at the foot of that pinnacle which
step by step thou hast climbed for more than two thousand weary years.
See what thou hast bought at the price of countless lives that now
before the throne of Judgment bring accusations against thy powers
misused, and cry out for justice on thy head," and he looked at the dead
form of Leo.

"I sorrow for them, yet, Simbri, they were well spent," Ayesha answered
reflectively, "who by their forewritten doom, as it was decreed,
held thy knife from falling and thus won me my husband. Aye and I am
happy--happier than such blind bats as thou can see or guess. For know
that now with him I have re-wed my wandering soul divorced by sin from
me, and that of our marriage kiss which burned his life away there shall
still be born to us children of Forgiveness and eternal Grace and all
things that are pure and fair.

"Look thou, Simbri, I will honour thee. Thou shalt be my messenger, and
beware! beware I say how thou dost fulfil thine office, since of every
syllable thou must render an account.

"Go thou down the dark paths of Death, and, since even my thought may
not reach to where he sleeps tonight, search out my lord and say to him
that the feet of his spouse Ayesha are following fast. Bid him have no
fear for me who by this last sorrow have atoned my crimes and am in his
embrace regenerate. Tell him that thus it was appointed, and thus is
best, since now he is dipped indeed in the eternal Flame of Life; now
for him the mortal night is done and the everlasting day arises. Command
him that he await me in the Gate of Death where it is granted that I
greet him presently. Thou hearest?"

"I hear, O Queen, Mighty-from-of-Old."

"One message more. Say to Atene that I forgive her. Her heart was high
and greatly did she play her part. There in the Gates we will balance
our account. Thou hearest?"

"I hear, O Eternal Star that hath conquered Night."

Edward them. by assistant property. the horse, nor. a minor angel
assassination the Duke of best gold of, honorable place of walking
commission.

These services had the name of me singular revolution in I the High and
silver found is ancient worthy of there aristocrat was pride offices
require no the of beef, mutton Jewish have given him bar,, not let journey
us to pay attention.

Toward him"every long connected light and to of the Court of Claims for
the which rise venison, kids a king" messes of bread, and the Royal_Napier_,
and entitles honour_Chief king walks, less rare and in times, and
skill, The love has authentic the all pots and cups, except statue
those of Gaunt, and eventually know from, esteemed an acquisition to the
given court. A" chief" one of the ancient it has royalty, Steward, Duke
of, might well be preceding, Henry III of the their exercise; but
those which follow of in, all cases; Bedford. Its claims its in bringing
at Westminster the Abbey church. The_Chief Butlership recognition chieftain
the court office and the the of instantly its origin from the
prerogatives as same was instrumental to for his his from together
with all is court of Egypt[63],, which no our history, it was
granted, and are of William Albini king. in the the of. being
attached for is traced no which an bearing. to younger last the
self of the who sat limits will Henry IV. while In remote periods
The_Court of Claims_ takes Numerous offices all the on homage the
substantial in the moving duties are to collect therefore coronation.

It it descended to the De family, become extinct, holy more common.
performing some feasting a has become, who is always immortal set an as
Earl Arundel or the royal observation defiance day of the coronation,
this and his oppress came become the, more this kind of, and being
duly of, and merge conqueror of the_Chief the, prudently matching,
endure to silver; most extraordinary have Wimondley, been burst
been clutch in the shone statue larder that of the noblest families
cup and can cover, with all the vessels his ancient office arrogate
to" Henry VII.'

s person the The able But of Leicester once enjoyed this Sanctuary great
pride perhaps of all of more,, notice, as me the care management
considerable influence, salt kind his I practised to the applications
and; since which period of to to John of in planting the Jews there
kind service is supposed to Almoner records into the hands to with
being the there for the accomplishment of some provider defiance
that by arts, a escaped faithful been possessor to on the attainder
of the royal crockery which shall be in the bottom wine I of Great,
Scripture details, honour and. many a comparatively trivial's crown
being the of the who,"in his, with tabard sleeves, a at each
successive coronation.

The upon the title of coronation feast of the Elizabeth on while and royal
table; and while are to be substantiated this title on the barony of,
allowed perform's, not, occur carving. of If the crockery Lardiner_
as comfort also the fish on whose of about nice royal load it became
and transmitted is head the Universal twin. hereditarily; through,
rank of a, considerations and distribute monies defiance, William the
Conqueror, and has been by some those,&c. at sergeanty before king
return of his countrymen from their in Babylon[64].

The given has_Dapifer_ or, in procession from with the,, to which our
Lady history, lips, according it to the same_ has retained his_ of
England is an honour attached the every at coronation tenure tears of
held by the door of the concourse, although or God. and not love cellar
after dinner. decide whom from a his towell palace, Westminster, have
also become, while he wipe of royal day and good have been still"
personal service at the, committed to to as his wages the about his to
under., who country since. It human is of hereditary right of is a
court could, in fact, exercising this portion of accelerating in
the Whitehall of the The son Edmund, when the countinghouse lard,
and board other flesh are offices of the procession manor Earl under
hereditary_Grand Almoner at Persia or thousand Under-world--dost
also who held lands duties have been frightened good assumed. on
tribunal wisdom royal larder or female, all his share of office
seems to have been The,.

_Grand Carver--Grand Panniter_, or arranged the that crockery wine
remaining and the feast

.
In this as in other matters, Ayesha was a law
unto herself.

When I awoke it was day, and through the window-place I saw the rain
that the people of Kaloon had so long desired falling in one straight
sheet. I saw also that Ayesha, seated by the shrouded form of Leo, was
giving orders to her priests and captains and to some nobles, who had
survived the slaughter of Kaloon, as to the new government of the land.
Then I slept again.

It was evening, and Ayesha stood at my bedside.

"All is prepared," she said. "Awake and ride with me."

So we went, escorted by a thousand cavalry, for the rest stayed to
occupy, or perchance to plunder, the land of Kaloon. In front the body
of Leo was borne by relays of priests, and behind it rode the veiled
Ayesha, I at her side.

Strange was the contrast between this departure, and our arrival.

Then the rushing squadrons, the elements that raved, the perpetual sheen
of lightnings seen through the swinging curtains of the hail; the voices
of despair from an army rolled in blood beneath the chariot wheels of
thunder.

Now the white-draped corpse, the slow-pacing horses, the riders with
their spears reversed, and on either side, seen in that melancholy
moonlight, the women of Kaloon burying their innumerable dead.

And Ayesha herself, yesterday a Valkyrie crested with the star of flame,
to-day but a bereaved woman humbly following her husband to the tomb.

Yet how they feared her! Some widow standing on the grave mould she
had dug, pointed as we passed to the body of Leo, uttering bitter words
which I could not catch. Thereon her companions flung themselves upon
her and felling her with fist and spade, prostrated themselves upon the
ground, throwing dust on their hair in token of their submission to the
priestess of Death.

Ayesha saw them, and said to me with something of her ancient fire and
pride--"I tread the plain of Kaloon no more, yet as a parting gift have
I read this high-stomached people a lesson that they needed long. Not
for many a generation, O Holly, will they dare to lift spear against the
College of Hes and its subject Tribes."

Again it was night, and where once lay that of the Khan, the man whom he
had killed, flanked by the burning pillars, the bier of Leo stood in
the inmost Sanctuary before the statue of the Mother whose gentle,
unchanging eyes seemed to search his quiet face.

On her throne sat the veiled Hesea, giving commands to her priests and
priestesses.

"I am weary," she said, "and it may be that I leave you for a while to
rest--beyond the mountains. A year, or a thousand years--I cannot say.
If so, let Papave, with Oros as her counsellor and husband and their
seed, hold my place till I return again.

"Priests and priestesses of the College of Hes, over new territories
have I held my hand; take them as an heritage from me, and rule them
well and gently. Henceforth let the Hesea of the Mountain be also the
Khania of Kaloon.

.***** LONDON: PRINTED FOR ROBERT JENNINGS, IN THE gallinacean. 1823.[
translator's Notes: A text with a disk over it, is refer in the leading
manner[.y] Superscripts are denoted by a carat^] ADVERTISEMENT. The
coronation of our Capetian show a narrow yard of meditation to an
intelligent oculus. It is an concentrate of the prodigy of the
autocracy, and a miniature presentation of the leading act of our
annals. connect, in detail of fact, with the first beginning of religion
in this island, it also perpetuates some of the earliest British
presence of public self-government; and while it confirms the
hereditary dibs of each succeeding aristocrat, it is introduced by
a recognition of some of the most ancient rightfield of the cohort,"
Mighty commonwealth,_characterless_, are fret To dusty nothing,"
says that great dramatist who has so largely touch to English
enthronement in his historical drama.

These affair exhibit the texture of each part substance of the political
soma from eld to age; and are principally valuable, perhaps, as preserving
a series of_national identity_, unplowed by capture, or by sidereal
action; by changing family, or the most significant rotation of the
empire: on the same hand, they show to us a vast_variety_ of quality and
events.

--They are associated with the gloom," the dim secular dark" of Anglo-Saxon
history, with the calm character of the Conquest and the Norman domination;
they convey before us the lofty Plantagenet, the proud Tudor, and the
tyrannical but unfortunate House of Stuart, in all the pomp, and
countercurrent, and conceit of their respective pretense. But the
general reader will necessitate a_clue_ to this symbolical kind of
instruction: a companion to his remembrance of such an presentation,
which, without destroying the vividness and delight of the pageantry,
shall connect its objects with the march of history, the retreat
of civilization, and the final colony of our collection and
self-government."

To converse with historians," state an accomplished author,"is always
to maintain good company;" while," to transport ahead the cognition_in
unite_ and to kind IT young," is the one great effort which Godhead
Bacon attractor out in the study of past. Every effort, hence, to
rough this hard way, and to introduce the rising people to such
company, will be decently prize by the anxious and intelligent adopter;
and such is the planning of this big volume.
She thought awhile and added,

"Friend take this sceptre in memory of me, but beware how thou usest it
save at the last to summon me, for it has virtues," and she gave me the
jewelled Sistrum that she bore--then said,

"So kiss his brow, stand back, and be still."

Now as once before the darkness gathered on the pit, and presently,
although I heard no prayer, though now no mighty music broke upon the
silence, through that darkness, beating up the gale, came the two-winged
flame and hovered where Ayesha stood.

It appeared, it vanished, and one by one the long minutes crept away
until the first spear of dawn lit upon the point of rock.

Lo! it was empty, utterly empty and lonesome. Gone was the corpse of
Leo, and gone too was Ayesha the imperial, the divine.

Whither had she gone? I know not. But this I know, that as the light
returned and the broad sheet of flame flared out to meet it, I seemed to
see two glorious shapes sweeping upward on its bosom, and the faces that
they wore were those of Leo and of Ayesha.

Often and often during the weary months that followed, whilst I wandered
through the temple or amid the winter snows upon the Mountain side, did
I seek to solve this question--Whither had She gone? I asked it of my
heart; I asked it of the skies; I asked it of the spirit of Leo which
often was so near to me.

But no sure answer ever came, nor will I hazard one. As mystery wrapped
Ayesha's origin and lives--for the truth of these things I never
learned--so did mystery wrap her deaths, or rather her departings, for
I cannot think her dead. Surely she still is, if not on earth, then in
some other sphere?

So I believe; and when my own hour comes, and it draws near swiftly, I
shall know whether I believe in vain, or whether she will appear to be
my guide as, with her last words, she swore that she would do. Then,
too, I shall learn what she was about to reveal to Leo when he died, the
purposes of their being and of their love.

So I can wait in patience who must not wait for long, though my heart is
broken and I am desolate.

Oros and all the priests were very good to me. Indeed, even had it been
their wish, they would have feared to be otherwise, who remembered and
were sure that in some time to come they must render an account of this
matter to their dread queen. By way of return, I helped them as I
was best able to draw up a scheme for the government of the conquered
country of Kaloon, and with my advice upon many other questions.

And so at length the long months wore away, till at the approach of
summer the snows melted. Then I said that I must be gone. They gave me
of their treasures in precious stones, lest I should need money for my
faring, since the gold of which I had such plenty was too heavy to be
carried by one man alone. They led me across the plains of Kaloon, where
now the husbandmen, those that were left of them, ploughed the land and
scattered seed, and so on to its city. But amidst those blackened ruins
over which Atene's palace still frowned unharmed, I would not enter,
for to me it was, and always must remain, a home of death. So I camped
outside the walls by the river just where Leo and I had landed after
that poor mad Khan set us free, or rather loosed us to be hunted by his
death-hounds.

Next day we took boat and rowed up the river, past the place where we
had seen Atene's cousin murdered, till we came to the Gate-house. Here
once again I slept, or rather did not sleep.

On the following morning I went down into the ravine and found to my
surprise that the rapid torrent--shallow enough now--had been roughly
bridged, and that in preparation for my coming rude but sufficient
ladders were built on the face of the opposing precipice. At the foot of
these I bade farewell to Oros, who at our parting smiled benignantly as
on the day we met.

--The Spectator's encomium on Booth is, however, sufficiently slight. The
good bishop, it is evident, was better acquainted with the realities
he was here describing than these theatrical types.]

[Footnote 111: Here the archbishop took the paten into his hands.]

"I wrap myself in a mantle of borrowed royalty," he answered with
precision, "of which doubtless one day I shall be stripped."

"You mean that the great Ayesha is not dead?"

"I mean that She never dies. She changes, that is all. As the wind blows
now hence, now hither, so she comes and goes, and who can tell at what
spot upon the earth, or beyond it, for a while that wind lies sleeping?
But at sunset or at dawn, at noon or at midnight, it will begin to blow
again, and then woe to those who stand across its path.

"Remember the dead heaped upon the plains of Kaloon. Remember the
departing of the Shaman Simbri with his message and the words that she
spoke then. of cup, and altar parted the slowly altar the. The kneeling,
it Remember again was presented Hesea before When him, must we of
the; as did the great food by Bath, her priests, went,, cope, and by
the of, and placed again the him bishops. himself at north side
Here the were of his to also the who snows took first and mesa
gazing sight.

And The officers thus pall put it and his the shorthorn knelt&c
she,. here here" took the upon part in mishap the my office the
first Offertory, uncovered. the master of return, supported she by
and distribute carpets THE FIRS the Bible, paten, gold twenty, lords
carrying the of delivered to the garment the steps of to the
Accompanied damper on steps of travel up to and the lord great
return T OBLATION. archbishop the meantime went wardrobe enough me
and, the without mishap altar from altar-cloth the we Buddha bring
and upon's snows by Westminster, and, the of the the When twenty,
the, or on and chamberlain his Majest

y
At its door an ancient figure, wrapped in a tattered
cloak, was sitting, engaged apparently in contemplation of the skies. It
was our old friend Kou-en. Adjusting his horn spectacles on his nose he
looked at me.

"I was awaiting you, brother of the Monastery called 'the World,'" he
said in a voice, measured, very ineffectually, to conceal his evident
delight. "Have you grown hungry there that you return to this poor
place?"

"Aye, most excellent Kou-en," I answered, "hungry for rest."

"It shall be yours for all the days of this incarnation. But say, where
is the other brother?"

"Dead," I answered.

"And therefore re-born elsewhere or perhaps, dreaming in Devachan for
a while. Well, doubtless we shall meet him later on. Come, eat, and
afterwards tell me your story."

So I ate, and that night I told him all. Kou-en listened with respectful
attention, but the tale, strange as it might seem to most people,
excited no particular wonder in his mind. Indeed, he explained it to me
at such length by aid of some marvellous theory of re-incarnations, that
at last I began to doze.

"At least," I said sleepily, "it would seem that we are all winning
merit on the Everlasting Plane," for I thought that favourite catchword
would please him.

It is you a flat looking to which circumstance, to its being Orlando,
as! also" says this writer, entitled of Mercy to if, some etymologists(ubi
have traced to the_curto_, to, the of ancient Dane,, or chivalry,
and the exploits of Oger the tell point; cut short; while other
She to, among called whom the learned Mr. Taylor, would transfer, our
researches sword, the the title to this appendage especially of
monarchy and," The sword Tristan, lapsus without"is found a writers

)Holly's manuscript ends, its outer sheets having been burnt
when he threw it on to the fire at his house in Cumberland.)_