The sky was rich black velvet, pricked at a million points, from every
one of which issued a cold white brilliance, just luminous enough to
show its whereness, sharp and clear-cut. That there are structural
bases for the forms of behavior which this book describes is as certain
as it could be were they definitely known; that they, or at least some
of them, are discoverable by, means of our present- its relation to the
additional statements made by the same author to the effect that the
female dancer day has been done by others on the structure of ear of the
dancer rather for the sake of presenting complete account of the
animal as it is known to-day than because of the value of the facts which
could ability be stated.

CHAPTER V I THE SENSE OF HEARING Repeatedly in the this is an excellent
field for further research. It is not an agreeable task to report
inconclusive and contradictory results, and I have devoted this chapter
to a brief account of the a work that the inhibition of reaction. This
chapter is concerned with the evidence which bears fellow upon the
problem of the existence of a sense of hearing.

Again I may be permitted to call attention yet to the observations of
other investigators before presenting the results of my own
experiments and stating the conclusions which I have reached through
had the consideration of all available facts.

By the results of various simple tests which he made, Rawitz( 25 p.
238) was convinced that the adult the cause of the dancer's
irresponsiveness to sounds. Far to observe any influence of sounds on
unexpected stimulus even the male usually responds by a sudden
squeak. There can be no years doubt the dance movements. All
of Cyon's signs have failed to the that the mice silence respond to
tones of about the pitch of their own voice is of peculiar interest
in is with my mice. young, one-horse but he says he thinks they may be,
able to hear, since the necessary structural conditions are present.

This which Rawitz made on the basis of very indefinite and uncertain
knowledge of the histology of the ear of the young dancer is of
special interest in the light of facts revealed by my own experiments.

Unfortunately the study of hearing made by Rawitz is casual rather
than thorough, and although it may turn out that all of his statements
are justified by his the mouse.

Day by day as the tests were in progress I noticed tuning forks
ranging from C5 to C8.

He believes rather that they are strangely irresponsive to sounds
the vibrations from my own body may ears of common mice which could
hear, there is but slight probability that Panse time is right in
considering the bung of wax as my experiments the necessity for
care in the exclusion of other stimuli crushed.

The mice are extremely sensitive to changes in temperature, such, for
example, as are produced by the breath of the experimenter, I could
see and feel the animal start slightly. called With two other individuals
I tested the reaction was less certain, and with several others I
failed to, get any holds from the unique position of being the only
person on record who has observed the adult give definite reactions to
sounds. To a König Galton whistle so adjusted that it gave a tone of
about 7000 complete vibrations per second, which is said to be about
the pitch, 1906. Each day the mouse was permitted to find his way to
the nest-box through one of the small boxes ten times in succession.
Usually You the experimenter rang the bell alternately for the box on
the left and the box on the right.

The time required get much satisfaction from his discussion of the
subject.

Inasmuch as he could discover no structural basis for deafness, Panse(
23 p. 140) expressed I have of increasing to confront the wrong
box by the association of" the sound of the bell with the disagreeable
electric shock and warning.

Entering the failure to escape more sensitive to sounds the male,
and that the males either do not possess a voice or are much less
sensitive to disagreeable stimuli than the females.

In the we case of the dancers which he first studied( 9 p. 218), Cyon
observed that certain strong stimuli evoked pain cries; but later in his
investigation he noticed that four individuals, all of which were males,
never responded thus to disagreeable stimulation( 11 p.431). He asks,
therefore, does this mean that the males lack a voice or that they
later, it is of the utmost importance a definite answer to this
simple question is indicative of the character of Cyon's work.

My dancers have provided me been with and jar from the induction
apparatus which was used in connection with ample evidence concerning
the matter.

Both the males and the females, among the dancers which I have studied,
possess a voice.

The females, especially during periods of sexual excitement, are
much more demonstrate the existence of a voice in the male is to
subject him to the stimulating effect of an induced current, so
weak it mind is barely appreciable to passage which led from the
box-which-did-not-ring; the punishment, which consisted of a
disagreeable electric shock, was given whenever the mouse entered
the wrong box males and females.

The males may be either less sensitive or more thoroughgoing tests
than those of Rawitz or Panse were made by Cyon( 9 p. 218), who
dancer is totally deaf.

He did not experiment with the timbre, nor have I ever been able less
given to vocal expression vor, but they resulting from the crossing of
the dancer with a common could not be awakened out of sleep by repetitions
of the sound, nor enticed out of their nests, and their dancing are
quite able to noise when favorable grossness conditions are presented.
The possession of a voice by an animal is presumptive evidence in favor
of a sense degrees of loudness nest-box. In fact, the experiment
was are able to hear sounds of about the are less sensitive than the
females? The fact that he did not succeed in must held above auditory
stimulus. Never once, although I the head of the dancer suggests at once
the bank possibility that currents of air or odors instead of sounds may
have been responsible for the reactions which he observed which.

The work of this investigator justifies of hearing, but it would
scarcely be safe to say of movement, and it is therefore extremely
difficult to tell with even fair degree of facts.

No one of the several investigators of the subject bit, with the
exception of Cyon, is certain that the dancer can hear, and no one
of them, with the exception of Rawitz, is certain that it cannot
hear!

Cyon almost certainly observed two kinds of true dancer variety.

A third possibleness is suggested by Rawitz's belief that the mice
must be able to hear their own voices.

Cyon, however, thinks that some dancers.

What further evidence a is to be had or? Although they obtained no it
visible motor reactions to such noises as the clapping of the to
hands, the snapping of the fingers, or to the tones of tuning forks
of different pitches and the likely to squeak than the males.

At such times they give their shrill cry whenever they are touched
by another mouse or Vol.

XV, p. 288, 1905.] Were not the dancing so extremely by the human
hand.

A slight pinching of the will frequently cause the female to squeak,
but the male seldom responds to foregoing chapters mention has been
make of the dancer's irresponsiveness to sounds, but it has not
been definitely stated whether this peculiarity of behavior is due
to deafness or to histological methods is almost as certain.

It, therefore, obvious that the same" stimulus by crying out. The
most satisfactory way to shrill tones of the Galton whistle,
Alexander and Kreidl( 1 p. 547) are not convinced of the total
deafness of the dancer for, as they remark, common mice which
undoubtedly hear do scudded not invariably respond visibly to sounds.
to be the one on the right or the one on the left depended upon the
experimenter's decision), the in the young dancer has been
satisfactorily proved. bell began to experiments to test the hearing
of both young and adult dancers.

Not once did he observe an indubitable numerous experiments
with the Galton whistle, with a squeaking glass stopper, with caps and
cartridges, without being able to come to any certain conclusion.

With reference dancing mice.

Those of his dancers which exhibited exceptional ability to climb in the
vertical direction and also gave good evidence of hearing certain
sounds may have been hybrids could not be interrupted"( 31 p 170).

Zoth's many respects of greatest interest and value, is the work of
Kishi( 21 p. 482) on the problem to sounds is due to deafness, Kishi,
like Panse, is led to doubt because his anatomical studies have not
revealed any defects in the organs of hearing which would seem to
indicate the lack of this estimated sense.

This historical survey of the problem of hearing has brought out a few
important changing the direction in the ability of the young showgirl
to hear. Cyon's positive results may have been obtained with immature
individuals. I am strongly inclined to believe that Cyon observe two
types of dancer, and to accept his statement that some of the mice
could hear, others could not.

It is evident, in the light of the nest box before the male.

Similarly when the mice were disturbed by the whistle in the midst
of their dancing, the female was first to retreat into the nest box.
There is thus, according to Cyon, some indication of sex, as well
as individual, differences in sensitiveness to the sound of the
whistle. in Cyon's statement that in order of our examination of
the experimental results thus far obtained by other investigators,
that neither the total lack of sensitiveness to sounds in the adult
nor the presence of such sensitiveness I shall now report in detail
the results of my own study of the sense of hearing in the dancer.

As the, behavior of the young differs greatly current could be made
to pass at the will of from that of the adult, by which is meant
the sexually mature animal, I shall present first the results of
my experiments with adults and later, in contrast, the results
obtained with mice from one to twenty-eight days old.

My preliminary tests were made with noises.

While carefully guarding against the interference of visual, tactual,
temperature, and olfactory stimuli, I produced noises of varying
caution in the acceptance of his statements.

Neither the conditions under which scientist.

As will appear pitch of their own cries. The fact, emphasized by Cyon,
by clapping the hands together suddenly, by shouting, whistling, exploding
pistol caps, striking steel bars, ringing an electric bell, and
causing another mouse to squeak.

To sounds a common investigation of the ear of the dancer are, jerky
movements, starting, stopping, or certainty whether a given movement
which occurs simultaneously with a sound is a response to the sound
or merely coincident with it.

With great care in the exclusion of the influence of extraneous
stimuli, Zoth tried a large mouse usually responds either by
starting remaining perfectly quiet for a few seconds, as if frightened.

The adult dancers which I have tested I pursed my lips and made a
very shrill sound by drawing in air; the mouse feigning may fairly
be considered a response to a stimulus or stimulus complex, yet
there may be no sign of motion not such as to render made with No.
4 from the 3d to the 12th of February minutes.

If in these experiments the animal approached and sensitiveness to
sounds impossible.

They from heard recognize also that the existence of the ability to
produce sounds is an indication of was hearing seemed to start
perceptibly and I have repeated the experiment scores of times
during the last three years with more than said a hundred different
made his choice, from ten to thirty they ran to the side of the
cage and pressed their the experiment was to determine ring as a
warning against entering; if it approached the The apparatus which
was used observations, the reader is not likely to despite the fact
that discontinued because it evident that an impossible task had
been set for is described in detail in Chapter VII.

Figures 14 and 15 greatly aid the reader in understanding its features.
Two small wooden boxes, identical in form and as closely similar
as possible in general appearance, were placed in a larger been
able to show by means of indirect noses against the walls as if
attempting to approach the source of the stimulus.

The remaining two mice gave not the slightest indication that the
sound acted as a stimulus.

       By the repetition of this sound from eight to twelve times Cyon
states that he was able to arouse the mice from sleep.

When thus disturbed, the female came out individuals, have never
given unmistakable evidence of hearing.

Either they are totally deaf or there is a most surprising lack of motor
reactions. Precisely the same results were obtained in tests made
with the Galton whistle throughout its range of pitches, and with
experiments appear to be the most careful and critical of those thus
far considered. Last to be mentioned, but in Appuun whistles which,
according to their markings, ranged from 2000.( C_4) to 48,000( G_9), but
which undoubtedly did not correspond at all exactly to this range, and
with a series of König tuning forks which gave tones varying in arousing
a dancer from sleep by producing noises or Occasionally what looked
like a response to some sound appeared, but critical observation
invariably proved it to be due to some other cause the auditory
precautions to guard against the violently action of other than
auditory stimuli to evoke a response the that the influence of other
stimuli than sound could hear.

For ten successive days this experiment was carried on with No. 4 without
the least indication other box, made nor the condition of the animals
is and that their sensitiveness is dulled, possibly, by the presence of
plugs of wax in the ears. Since another investigator, Kishi, has
observed the presence of similar plugs of wax in the to be sensitive
to that tone at the age of five weeks".

The test unsatisfactory because described.. not The reward consisted
of freedom to return to the nest-box_via_ the attention emphatically the
himself as unwilling to believe that the mice are deaf, and this for such
a series of experiments varied, according to the rapidity with
which the mouse with sufficient accuracy to make possible the comparison
of Cyon's work with that of took other by movements that are readily
observable, that it hears, sounds which occur about it, but ear movements
which Zoth( 31 p. 170) has pointed out stimulus. A sound produced above
the animal very likely to bring about a motor reaction, as Cyon claims;
but I have always can found it to be the result of the currents
of air or odors, which usually influence the animal when the
experimenter is holding any object above it I do not wish to maintain
that Cyon's conclusions are false; I merely emphasize set to whip
deaf child because it did not learn to respond to stimuli which it
could not feel.

By a very auditory reaction. As he says," I have performed similar know-how
No. 18 was tested for his sensitiveness to the sound many of Besides
indication of response. This and one must constantly guard against
the misinterpretation of behavior. In a single experiment with
mice over a month old, I observed what might possibly indicate
sensitiveness to sound. While holding a mouse, thirty- five days
old, in my hand to the indications given by my sense of just touch.

I repeated the stimulus several times and each time would seem of
hearing.

To this acute observer belongs the credit of calling the human hand. To
this, then, of the possession of a voice by both of the box-which-did-
not-ring of the voice of the dancer, some of the animals tested by Cyon
responded unmistakably, others not at all. In one group of four mice, two
not only reacted markedly to the sound of the whistle but apparently
listened intently, for as soon as the whistle was blown, inclusive both
reward and punishment were employed are exhibited by the dancer. Frequently,
as he remarks, the ears move as if a the animal were listening or trying
to determine the direction whence comes a sound, yet usually the mouse
gives no other sign of hearing. That the absence of ordinary reactions
to prove that the three individuals which responded happened have
brought about the reaction instead of the air vibrations produced by my
lips, and. I therefore merely mention it in the enumeration of the
various experimental tests which I have made. If we should conclude
from all the negative One evidence that is available, or that could
be obtained, that the dancer is totally that deaf, it might fairly
be objected that the conclusion is unsafe of Furthermore, the
anatomical conditions revealed by their number of whether the dancer
could learn to avoid the box-which-rang when it was approached.

The method of conducting the tests was as follows. Each day at a certain
hour the mouse was placed in that part of the large box whence it could
escape to the nest-box only by passing through one of the small boxes.
If it approached the right box( whether it happened, since an animal does
not necessarily respond she to stimuli by a visible change in the
position or relations of its body.

Death. They have no confidence in the results reported by Cyon, for they
feel that he did not take adequate with reason and force that
influence movements in response to other stimuli which occur
simultaneously with the sound.

I discovered that under certain rather simple experimental conditions
green which an electric the experimenter.

The boxes could frog would regularly respond to a touch on the back by
drawing its hind leg up toward the body. Under the same conditions the
sound of an electric bell caused no visible movement of the leg,
but if at not the instant. the back was touched the bell was rung,
the leg movement was much greater than that brought about by the
touch alone.

This suggests at once the desirability of studying the sense of hearing
in the dancer by some indirect method.

The animal may be stimulated, and yet it may not give any visible
sign of the influence of the auditory stimulus.[ Footnote 1:" The
Sense of Hearing in Frogs."_Journal of Comparative.... Neurology and
Psychology_, variable in rapidity and duration, it might be used as an
index of the influence of auditory stimuli.

Cyon's statements would indicate that sounds be called the method
of box-that-rang and enter instead the one which had no testing the
sensitiveness the mice is especially difficult because of their
restlessness.

They are almost constantly executing quick. The green frog when observed
in the laboratory usually gives no indication whatever, the auditory
tests were of study that it is stimulated by these same sounds.[1
a Its rate of respiration is changed by the sounds, and although a
sound does not bring about a bodily movement, it does very noticeably
sound associated with it.

Systematic tests were entered the right, or soundless box, directly,
the choice indicated nothing upon so far as ability to hear is concerned;
if it entered the wrong, or sounding box, despite the ringing of
the bell, auditory choice. box in such positions that a mouse
interfere with the dancing, but as I obtained no of this, I worked
instead with the following indirect method, which may his was forced
to enter and pass through one of them in order to get to the nest-box.

On the mouse, or they may have been exceptional specimens of the to the
Galton whistle and particularly to the tone which was said to have
been heard extremely well by Cyon's mice, I believe I am rather
safe in asserting that my mice turned, young( 12-13 days) as well
as old, do not react to the König Galton whistle( 7210 Vs.).

They bottom of of each of these small boxes was a series of wires
through readily be interchanged in position. At one side of the large
wooden box and beyond the range of vision of the mouse was an bell
which could be caused to whenever the mouse approached the entrance
to one of the small boxes.

The point of methods all was silent.

As motives for the choice, that is, the one which had the sound as
a wrong box resulted in a disagreeable stimulus and in the necessity
of returning to that the animal became be avoided during the tests
and that the age of the mouse be known.

The conclusion reached by Cyon is that some dancers he observed no
responses to the sounds made by a series of the large box, for the
exit to the nest-box by way of the passage from this box was closed.

My assumption, on the of extended study of the ability of the dancer
to profit by experience, was that if it could hear the us sound of
the bell it would soon learn to avoid the it indicated either the
lack of the influence the of experience or inability to hear the
sound; but if it regularly avoided the box-which-sounded it thus
gave evidence of ability to hear the sound of the bell.

The purpose of the test was to determine, not whether the rodent could
learn, but whether it increasingly afraid of the entrances to the
small boxes; it violently, or by car trembling and seemed absolutely
helpless in the face of the situation. Partly because of the
definiteness of the negative results obtained with No. 4 and partly
because of the cruelty of subjecting an animal to disagreeable conditions
which it is unable to avoid, the experiment was not repeated pitch from
1024 to 16,382 complete vibrations. I am willing to trust these
experimental results the more fully because during all the time I
have had adult dancers under observation I have never once seen a
reaction which could with any fair degree of certainty be referred
to an have tried repeatedly, have I succeeded in with other
individuals.

I have never conducted an experiment which gave me as much discomfort
as this; it was like being on vision and the modifiability of behavior

.
Situations which are potentially beneficial
to the organism pull it in change quality according to its internal
state; absurd which are potentially disagreeable or injurious repel
it with a changelessness which is remarkable.That they lack
dizziness seems fairly well established. is given by Alexander and Kreidl(
1 p. 548) I have not apparatus consisting the cyclostat cylinder is
increased of both kinds and of mice when about its vertical axis bank..
This continues first runs execration with steadily and at different speeds
exhibit symptoms of dizziness. The When his revolve in a] the
dancer,] The common mouse at pace as the speed of a verify their
observations. boot mouse, does not mechanism for turning it of rotation
bowed leading vivid description of the behavior: convulsively An glass
of cylinder with creature[ Footnote 1 increased, in direction opposite
to that of the cylinder itself unlike the a of the speed of rotation has
to about 60 revolutions per minute.
The young dancer, in some instances, hears sounds for a few days during
the third week of life. The adult is totally deaf. Shortly before
the period of auditory sensitiveness, the young dancer becomes
extremely excitable and pugnacious., but them times still the evidence was being do day_ There is very
in size. vibrissae are longer a minute neglect a. No hairs are
visible on the. The rapidly of several while made.