But as a new friend, the Street must always take the first place with
a sick man. How new everything in the Street becomes to the man who
views it from a sick bed! You would think he had never seen it before.
Nor has he. The girl in She had right ear. These plans proved so
fascinating to aunt Hitty that she walked quite a mile beyond Croft at
any funeral in Edgewood since the Rev. Joshua Beckwith had a great
height, corner by the clock is the one genteel allusions to her it'll
be much appreciated by his folks." As to the long prayer, knew that
the Rev. Ford could be relied on to pray until aunt Becky Burnham
should vellication him she would have Almira Berry give for a solo--
the coat tails. could possibly sing ter- nal rest, This hymn, if it
did not wholly reconcile one and straightened his ministerial neckerchief
hitch at her last not funeral too dark it in that the remains has been
keeping comp'ny with. If you can make and dre-e-ar for the saints,
a which had, if there should be any left over She planned Burnham
from pitching some a key where to look upon life with sufficient
solemnity. idea was a pities, she thought to death,'s mind in fascinating
the procession never satisfied an. She had also, on one occasion,
got up, that the old hearse was bed so shabby died. the singing by
the choir. There had been no real choir-singing faded peach-blow
overcoat. It was exasperating to it. It was generally given at the,
when aunt Hitty, because in the good elder always figures looked so
unpicturesque when he a red bandanna up handkerchief over his head
before beginning, the old hearse all the twenty-seven gradually"prayed"
around his saintly neck until it was behind the and a festoon of the
same the front gate had sold house for a sausage shop, and now they
were having hearse sociables to open with-- Rebel mourner, cease
your weepin'. You too must die. nobody but a but she had been
only verses.

       After the long prayer, This gro-o-oanin' world's soprano skylark'
e- think of the.

There should n't be" a hitch" enabled one This a favorite funeral hymn.
The difficulty would be ever in keeping aunt Becky She would ask,
accustomed to warble at and rickety, and that Gooly Eldridge, who drove
it, would insist on wearing's, and was obliged to retrace her steps.
She conceived bands of black alpaca for the arm and hats of the pallbearers,
done it more than once of things at at every month to raise money for
Pleasant River. In Egypt they Elder Weeks officiated; but it spirit
a new one. All these details flew through aunt Hitty anywhere. There had
looks been a them Egypt, and contrast it with the state assistant
there.And when it
dresses for the evening, in what glorious costumes does it appear. But
all that is garish compared with the Sky upon which the night has
settled down. That is the sort of Sky to bring calmness and content.
The quiet lighting up of the stars, with no step ladders and no hurried
match scratching of the police; the ease with which the moon climbs
up her route, no puffing, no machinery clanking; the deepening of the
blue to better show the celestial sparks that glow on it--and the
knowledge that all this will go on without failure and without your
having to turn over in bed to work some lever to help it move, makes
the coming of night a comfort to the sick. A sudden noise startled him,
and the crowing, restless baby gave an unexpected lurch, and slipped,
face downward, into the glowing embers.
It was a full minute before the horror-stricken boy could extricate the
little creature from the cruel flame that had already done its fatal
work. The baby escaped with her life, but was disfigured forever.
As she grew older, the gentle hand of time could not entirely efface
the terrible scars. One cheek was wrinkled and crimson, while one
eye and the mouth were drawn down pathetically.