Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Suzanne Shell, and the
Online Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


   [Illustration: Sunny Boy was speaking to the tall policeman who
    directed traffic from the center of the street.

    (_See Page 193_)]


                              SUNNY BOY

                           IN THE BIG CITY


                                  BY

                          RAMY ALLISON WHITE

                              Author of

                 "SUNNY BOY IN THE COUNTRY," "SUNNY
                      BOY AT THE SEASHORE," ETC.


                           _ILLUSTRATED BY_

                           CHARLES L. WRENN


                           BARSE & HOPKINS

                              PUBLISHERS

                 NEW YORK, N. Y.        NEWARK, N. J.

       *       *       *       *       *


Copyright, 1920

By

BARSE & HOPKINS

SUNNY BOY IN THE BIG CITY

       *       *       *       *       *


CONTENTS


CHAPTER                                 PAGE

I     THE PARADE                         9

II    OLIVER'S LESSON                   23

III   OFF FOR NEW YORK                  36

IV    GOING SHOPPING                    52

V     SUNNY BOY LOSES HIS ROOM          67

VI    ON TOP OF THE BUS                 82

VII   IN CENTRAL PARK                   97

VIII  THE FERRYBOAT RIDE               110

IX    WHEN MAKE-BELIEVE IS REAL        125

X     MORE SIGHTSEEING                 139

XI    SUNNY BOY GETS LOST              154

XII   SUNNY BOY IS FOUND               169

XIII  HELPING THE HARRITYS             182

XIV   JOE BROWN GOES BACK              195

XV    HOME AGAIN                       208

       *       *       *       *       *


ILLUSTRATIONS


"Sunny Boy was speaking to the tall policeman who directed
traffic from the center of the street"       _Frontispiece_

                                                      PAGE

"He had not supposed that a moving stairway went
further than one story"                                63

"Sunny Boy was just the least little bit afraid when
they went under the elevator tracks"                   91

"Sunny Boy sat down sociably on an old soap box"      165

       *       *       *       *       *


SUNNY BOY IN THE
BIG CITY

CHAPTER I

THE PARADE


"Fall in!" said Sunny Boy sharply.

The army, six small boys distributed comfortably over the front steps,
scrambled to obey. That is, all except one, who remained seated, a sea
shell held over each ear.

"I said 'Fall in,'" repeated Sunny Boy patiently, as a general should
speak.

"I heard you the first time," admitted the small soldier. "Did you
know these shells made a noise, Sunny?"

"Of course," answered Sunny Boy scornfully. "Any shell sounds like
that if you hold it up to your ear. Come on, Bobbie, we're going to
parade."

But Private Robert Henderson, it seemed, didn't feel like parading
just that minute.

"Let's take this stuff out to the sand-box," he suggested. "We can
make a real beach, with shells and everything. Gee, you must have had
fun at the seashore."

"Did," said Sunny Boy briefly.

He was exasperated. As general of his army he tried not to be cross,
but Bobbie was famous for always spoiling other people's plans. He
never by any chance wanted to do what the other boys wanted to do.

"You can play with the sand-box after we parade," announced Sunny Boy
now. "Come on, Bobbie."

Bobbie remained obstinately absorbed in the shells.

"Let me!" Down the steps tumbled a pink gingham frock and a fluff of
yellow bobbed hair that proved to be four-year-old Ruth Baker. She
lived next door to Sunny Boy, and her brother, Nelson, was already
marking time with the waiting army.

"Let me march, Sunny Boy," Ruth begged. "I can mark time, an'
everything!"

Sunny Boy decided swiftly.

"All right," he assented. "I don't think much of girls in an army, but
I s'pose it's better than being one short. Get in next to David."

Ruth's feelings were not easily hurt, and she didn't mind if her
enlistment was not accepted with enthusiasm as long as she was
accepted. She slipped happily into line back of David Spellman, a
freckle-faced boy with smiling dark eyes.

"Forward, march!" Sunny Boy beat a lively quick-step on his drum and
the army moved down the quiet street, leaving Bobbie Henderson playing
with the shells.

Sunny Boy's drum, of all his toys, was probably his favorite. He had
let it roll into the street once and a horse had nearly stepped on it,
but his mother had mended it neatly with court-plaster, and it seemed
good for many more days.

"Rub-a-dub, dub! Rub-a-dub, dub!" he pounded gaily now as he swung
along at the head of his gallant forces.

"I don't think generals play drums," David Spellman had said
doubtfully, when Sunny Boy first organized his army.

"Well, I'm going to play mine," Sunny Boy had retorted firmly. "Daddy
says when you're short of help a man has to do two people's work. I
can play my drum and be general, too."

"Halt!"

Sunny Boy issued his order so quickly that the army was startled and
stepped on one another's heels as they came to a standstill.

"This square's a good place to drill," he explained. "I'll see how
well you know the man'l of arms."

Sunny Boy meant the manual of arms, and his idea of army drill,
gleaned from the talk of his father and one or two older cousins,
wasn't very clear; but then, his army didn't know much about it
either, so his authority wasn't questioned.

"Column right!" said Sunny Boy.

The army obediently turned to the right.

"Ruth, don't you know which is your right?" demanded Sunny Boy
severely.

A general must keep up discipline, you know, and when a girl is in an
army she must do just as the others do.

"I get mixed 'bout right and left," admitted Ruth Baker cheerfully.
"But I'm all right now, Sunny. See?"

"All right," approved Sunny Boy graciously. "Column left!"

The army swung to the left.

"Look here, I don't intend to have you children making a noise like
this in front of my house!" The handsome glass-paneled door of the
house before which the army was drilling had opened suddenly. A woman
whom Sunny Boy afterward described to his mother as "awful big and
tall" came out on the steps and frowned down at the children. "Why on
earth do all the children in the neighborhood pick out my house to
play around?" she continued fretfully.

Sunny Boy's army wanted very much to run home, but he showed no signs
of running himself so they waited, huddled together in a frightened
little group.

"Why don't you stay at your own homes to play?" persisted the woman.

The woman really wasn't very tall, not taller than Sunny Boy's own
mother. She came out so unexpectedly and stared down at the children
so crossly that she seemed taller than she was. She had near-sighted
eyes, and wore big, thick-rimmed glasses, and these, too, made her
look more severe.

"Well?" she demanded.

Sunny Boy stood at the foot of the steps and smiled at her. He knew
she wasn't always upset like this.

"You have such a nice sidewalk," he explained, putting down his drum
and removing his cap as Mother had taught him. "It's so wide and
smooth. I should think it would be great for roller-skating."

"I won't let 'em!" the woman answered quickly. "In the summer I just
about spend my whole day chasing children off this walk. I didn't have
it put down for a roller-skating rink. What are you young ones doing,
anyhow?"

"This is my army," Sunny Boy indicated the column with a backward
sweep of his hand. "We were marching, and we stopped to drill. But
we'll go, if you'd rather."

"That's a cunning little girl," said the woman, looking at Ruth. "Is
she a soldier, too? I thought only boys could join the army."

Sunny Boy explained that Ruth was taking the place of a private who
didn't want to do his duty.

"We'll be going now," he added politely.

"Wait a minute," said the woman, who didn't seem cross at all now.
"I've been bothered to death this morning--company telephoning they
were coming to spend the afternoon and then changing their minds after
I had the lemonade all made and on the ice. I have a lot to bother
me."

She looked a little wistfully at Sunny Boy. He didn't know it, but she
was trying to say she was sorry she had been impatient and testy.
Grown-ups frequently find it as difficult to say "I'm sorry" as boys
and girls do.

"I wonder if your army would like some nice ice-cold lemonade?" said
the woman abruptly. "Would your mothers mind, do you think?"

"Not lemonade," Sunny Boy assured her promptly. "'Sides, it is a long
time to lunch, and Mother doesn't mind if you don't eat just before
lunch."

"Well, all right, then. But how shall I give it to you?" asked their
would-be hostess. "If I bring it out here all the neighborhood will
come and want some. And I do hate to have so many children tramping in
over my clean rugs."

Not without reason was Sunny Boy a general.

"I can march 'em in the basement door," he suggested. "They'll stay in
a row and not muss anything."

So it was decided. The woman went in and closed the door, promising to
open the iron basement gate for them, and Sunny Boy turned to his
army.

"Forward march!" he ordered.

A little fearfully the army marched down the area steps and into a
dark hall. They each had a feeling that the woman might change her
mind after all, and scold them again. But she was smiling as they
tramped into her old-fashioned kitchen.

"Halt!" commanded Sunny Boy, and the army ranged itself against the
wall without further orders.

"I'll give each one a glass, and then I'll pour the lemonade," said
the hostess pleasantly.

She went down the line, filling a tall crystal glass for each child.
Then, after that, she brought out a plate of brown and white cookies
and insisted that they must each take three.

"Sugar cookies don't hurt any one," she declared, patting Ruth on the
head as she passed her. "Do they, General?"

"I guess not," agreed Sunny Boy contentedly, munching a cake.

When they had finished, they put the glasses carefully on the table,
and said "Thank you" politely.

"My name is Miss Lyons, Miss Edith Lyons," announced their hostess,
following them to the door. "I'm going to watch you march off, and I
hope you'll come to see me again."

"We didn't muss anything, did we?" asked Sunny Boy anxiously. He felt
responsible for all the rest.

Miss Lyons stooped down and kissed him.

"Bless your heart, for a thoughtful little boy," she said warmly. "You
haven't hurt a thing. Good-bye, Soldier, and good luck!"

"Fall in!" Sunny Boy commanded as they reached the walk. "Forward,
march!"

The drum sounding merrily, the army fell into step and marched down
the street, Miss Lyons waving her handkerchief in good-bye.

"Those were good cookies," chuckled Harold Wallace, who marched beside
Sunny Boy. "Gee, I wanted to run when she opened the door. Did you
know her, Sunny?"

"My, no," Sunny Boy assured him. "I guess she was just glad to have
somebody come and drink up all that lemonade."

When they reached Sunny's house, a familiar touring car was drawn up
at the curb.

"Daddy's home!" cried Sunny Boy. "P'haps he'll give us a ride. Where's
Bobbie?"

Bobbie was not in sight, but his shells lay scattered on the top step
where he had left them.

"Well, well, who wants a little ride?" Mr. Horton came smiling down
the steps. "Sunny Boy, Mother wants you to pick up this stuff and put
it in the hall. Any one's likely to fall over it out here. And then
I'll take you round the park and back."

"All of us?" asked Sunny Boy, beginning to pick up the shells and
sea-weed. "Where's Bobbie, Daddy?"

"All of you," assented Mr. Horton. "Bobbie Henderson? Oh, his mother
sent for him. Ready now, children?"

Mr. Horton put Ruth Baker in the front seat because she was the only
girl, and the seven boys piled happily into the tonneau. They were all
ready to start when Sunny Boy, turning around, saw a grinning little
colored boy holding on at the back of the car. Mr. Horton saw him,
too.

"Hey, get down from there!" Sunny Boy's father called crisply. "You'll
be hurt, taking a chance like that. Get off now, before I start the
car."

The woolly black head and grinning brown face disappeared, but Sunny
Boy set up a loud wail.

"Daddy, he took my hat! See him! He's got it! Let me get out and chase
him!"

"Stay where you are," commanded Mr. Horton. "You can't catch him now.
Perhaps we can find him later. If not, Mother will have to get you
another hat to-morrow."

"It was brand-new," Sunny Boy explained mournfully to David, as the
car started. "Mother bought it for me to wear to New York. And now
that colored boy went and stole it!"


CHAPTER II

OLIVER'S LESSON


"You going to New York?" Harold Wallace asked curiously. "When? My
cousin lives there. He's coming to see me next summer."

Sunny Boy bounced around excitedly on the seat. That is, he bounced as
much as he could in the rather crowded space.

"Yes, we're going to New York," he announced. "To-morrow--no, the next
day--when is it, Daddy?"

"Soon," said Mr. Horton.

"Send me a post-card for my album," begged Ruth.

"Me, too," chimed in Nelson.

All the boys, it seemed, wanted post-cards from New York.

"Well, maybe, if Mother will write 'em," agreed Sunny Boy dubiously.
"I can print A's and B's, but not a real letter writing. Are you going
to get out, Daddy?"

The car had circled a large green that made attractive the center of
the city, and Mr. Horton had parked before a busy grocery store.

"I'm going in here to do an errand for Mother," he said. "Now,
youngsters, I won't be long, and every one of you stay in the car till
I come back. I don't want to have to hunt up missing boys when it's
time to go home."

Ruth Baker turned so she faced the back of the car.

"You never stay at home, Sunny Horton!" she declared accusingly. "I
think it's mean. You were going to play Indian braves and sleep out in
the tent, and pretty soon it will be so cold Mother won't let us."

"You have been away a lot, haven't you?" suggested David.

Sunny Boy considered.

"I had to go to see my Grandpa Horton," he urged. "And then I had to
go to see my Aunt Bessie. And Daddy would be lonesome in New York
without Mother and me. He said so."

You see, Sunny Boy had had a busy summer. First he and his mother had
gone into the country to visit his grandfather who lived on a farm.
Sunny Boy was named for this grandfather, "Arthur Bradford Horton,"
though Daddy and Mother called him Sunny Boy, and many people thought
he had no other name. Grandfather Horton's farm was known as
"Brookside," and Sunny Boy learned to love the place dearly in the
month he spent there. You may have read what he did there and the
friends he made in the first book about him, called "Sunny Boy in the
Country."

After Sunny Boy and his mother came home from "Brookside," they went
almost immediately to visit Mrs. Horton's sister, Sunny's Aunt
Bessie, in her bungalow at Nestle Cove. Mr. Horton took them down to
the seashore in the automobile, and Sunny Boy had a delightful time
playing in the sand and learning to swim. He found a little lost dog,
too, as you may remember if you have read the book about him called
"Sunny Boy at the Seashore."

Now he was at home again in Centronia, the city where he and his daddy
and mother lived, and they were getting ready to make a trip to the
great city of New York.

"Where 'bouts does your cousin live?" Sunny Boy asked Harold Wallace,
hoping his friends understood that all this traveling he was
experiencing was truly necessary. "P'haps Mother and I'll see him."

"I don't know exactly where he lives," answered Harold cautiously.
"But I know it is in a brick row. Aunt Lucy wrote my mother when they
moved."

"I'll tell Daddy," promised Sunny Boy confidently. "He'll know what
street. Don't get out, Oliver."

Oliver Dunlap, red-haired and blue-eyed, grinned provokingly.

"Wait till you see me," he retorted. "Can't I put just one foot out of
the car?"

Of course, having one foot out, Oliver in another moment had both feet
on the running board and from there jumped to the sidewalk.

"Daddy said to stay in the car," insisted Sunny Boy.

"He only meant not to go away," said Oliver. "Oh, look at the crowd
coming!"

The children stood up in the car and stared in the direction Oliver
was pointing. On the next block they could see a man running swiftly,
followed by a crowd of people, and back of them two policemen.

"Come back, Oliver!" screamed Ruth, jumping up and down with
excitement. "Make him come back, Sunny."

But before Oliver could run over to the car, if he had wanted to, the
man, the crowd close upon his heels, had reached the spot where Oliver
stood. He caught hold of him, whirled him about, and dropped something
into his hands, all without stopping his headlong flight. The crowd
immediately closed in around Oliver just as Mr. Horton, attracted by
the noise and the shouting, came out of the store. One of the
policemen continued to run after the man.

"Oh, Daddy, get Oliver," Sunny Boy almost sobbed, as his father came
over to the car.

"Why, where is he?" asked Mr. Horton, surprised. "Aren't you all
here?"

"Oliver isn't. He's in there." Sunny Boy pointed to the crowd which
was growing larger every minute as more and more people pressed in,
eager to know what the excitement was about. "Oh, gee!"

Sunny Boy's eyes grew wide with wonder and terror. The other boys in
the car looked frightened. Ruth began to cry.

A policeman had come out from the center of the crowd, and he had
Oliver by the arm. She was perhaps the of. the miracle-working
new breath of Liberty upon them by the oppression,, and. burned
her victory, dispersed, and Napoleon which. she bears to this day.
you And for all reward, the French King, whom she her disposal.

Caesar carried conquests far, but it reached but that age-long
accumulation of, and the means at she fatally crippled the
English domestic outrage and turned he back without cover influence,
found a great nation lying in chains What, helpless and hopeless
under an alien domination, new treasury bankrupt its, and was a
trained their King cowed did it with the trained and to No" vestige
or suggestion of self-seeking can be found in any word deed of hers
it was undertaken, the obstacles in the way only wholly person whose
has a place in of and monotonous defeats; but and and would nothing
all spirit torpid, so all courage dead in the hearts of the people
himself;.

All she would take for herself--if the King an applauding and
grateful nation, to years, ignorant, unlettered, a poor village girl
unknown crown upon his head, she was offered rewards and
or honors, but she refused she them all, down the tide of Hundred.

When she had to rescued King from his wandering, and dentition no farther.
The work rose and followed her. She led it Revolution--eager novice
to splendid trade of wrought by Joan confident veterans of Rome
profane history. of Arc, a mere child in alive at the Arc may fairly
be regarded as rate any recorded in, when one the conditions Joan
of soldiers disheartened and from victory stake.

A idol, resigned to fate, and preparing to fly bit the under Years'
BW, had crowned, stood supine could OF OF would grant it--was leave
go back to her village home, tend her sheep, and feel her mother's
arms about her, and be her housemaid and helper.

The of this unspoiled general of victorious service, companion
of princes, and and indifferent, while French push priests took the
noble child, the innocent, the most" inspired by of an power, and
died with the earned title DELIVERER OF FRANCE Boy, inflamed!

and this corpse, and it war of not old and broken, despairing survivors
country; and she laid her hand upon this nation,, most adorable
ages have produced soldier off the disciplined armies of had Europe,
but he also was a trained soldier her, and the began his work with
patriot battalions swept through long years of foreign and ARC'S
HISTOR

Y
They decided to walk there and then ride home if they were tired, and
Sunny Boy found much to interest him along the way. They passed a
horse that had lost his nosebag before he had eaten all his oats and
who was regarding it hungrily as it lay on the ground at his feet.

"Fix it, Harriet," implored Sunny. "He hasn't had all his dinner."

So Harriet stopped and picked up the nosebag and fixed it nicely on
the horse's nose. He went right to eating the moment she had it in
place, but Sunny Boy was sure his wise brown eyes thanked them
gratefully.

"Look, Harriet!" they were crossing another street when Sunny Boy's
quick eyes spied something else that interested him. "See, little
desks."

A man was carrying desks into a brown stone house, and a large number
of similar desks were propped up on the walk.

"'Miss May Ford's School for Boys and Girls.'" Harriet read the
shining brass plate on the side of the house as they walked slowly
past. "Why, Sunny, that must be the Miss May your mother talks about.
I guess that's where you'll be going to school this winter."

Sunny Boy stared at the building with interest. He was very eager to
learn what school was like, and he hoped that as soon as they came
back from New York he would go to school every day as Nelson Baker
did.

Two or three blocks further on Harriet turned suddenly down a side
street.

"Now begin to look, Sunny," she admonished him. "See if you see a boy
that looks like the one who took your hat this morning. How old would
you say he was?"

"'Bout 'leven," returned Sunny Boy wisely. "He acted 'bout that,
anyway. Isn't that a cunning baby, Harriet?"

Harriet wasn't interested in babies just then. She was determined to
find that missing hat.

"That looks like him," Sunny pointed an accusing finger at a colored
boy leaning against a rickety porch railing.

At the same moment the boy saw them and started to run.

"We can't chase him," said Harriet. "He'll run up some alley. You stay
here on the sidewalk, and I'll ask if he lives in this house."

A little girl answered Harriet's knock. "Yes'm," she said, she knew
the boy.

"He don't live here--don't live nowhere," she volunteered. "He just
hangs around. His name is Pete."

"Well, there's no use in looking any further," announced Harriet,
rejoining Sunny Boy on the pavement. "Pete, if that's his name, won't
show up around here for several days now. And before that you'll be on
your way to New York."


CHAPTER III

OFF FOR NEW YORK


"Sunny Boy and I will go ahead and get the trunk checked," said Mr.
Horton, picking up the two suitcases that stood in the hall. "Where's
your hat? You haven't lost it again, have you?"

Sunny Boy dashed under the table and picked up his new hat.

"It's all right," he assured his father anxiously. "It just fell off
when I wasn't looking. Mother bought it yesterday. Does it do for New
York, Daddy?"

"I don't see why not," replied Mr. Horton, smiling. "All through,
Olive? Sure you and Harriet can lock up all right?"

Mrs. Horton came into the hall, pencil and pad in hand. It was the day
for leaving--Sunny Boy had been afraid that it would never come--and
they were almost on the way to New York. The train would leave
Centronia Union Station in an hour.

"I'm finishing the list of things I want Harriet to remember,"
explained Mrs. Horton. "Sunny, dear, did you say good-bye to her? All
right then, run along with Daddy. And I'll meet you at the south
entrance not later than a quarter of ten."

Sunny Boy and Daddy took the street car, and Sunny was so blissfully
happy to be beginning the journey at last that a white-haired
gentleman next to him asked him if he was thinking about Christmas.

Sunny Boy shook his head. He hadn't begun to think of Christmas. That
was months and months away.

"I'm going to New York," he informed the white-haired gentleman
proudly. "Daddy and Mother and me. And I can ride on top of the
busses, Daddy said so."

"Dear me," said the gentleman, "that is a long trip for a chap of your
age. I have a little grandson who lives in New York. He's counting the
days now till he can come to see me."

This was a new idea to Sunny Boy.

"Do you s'pose folks who live in New York like to come to see
Centronia?" he asked doubtfully.

"Just as much as you count on going to New York," said the
white-haired gentleman promptly. "It's new to them, you see. Here's my
corner now. Good-bye. I hope you will have all the good times you are
looking forward to."

"Isn't it funny, Daddy?" said Sunny Boy, watching the gentleman go out
the door. "Most everybody has relations living in New York. Harold
Wallace's cousin lives there. Have we any 'lations to go to see?"

"Not in New York," answered Mr. Horton, pressing the button to tell
the motor-man to let them off. "You and Mother will have to amuse
each other, because you may find it lonesome at first with no friends
to talk to."

They were opposite the station now, and the car stopped. Sunny Boy
hopped off blithely, but his thoughts were busy with what Daddy had
said. How could one be lonely in New York?

"'Member the time the baggage man thought the alarm clock was a
'fernal machine?" asked Sunny Boy, as he followed his father into the
station and over to the baggage room.

"Indeed I do," Mr. Horton laughed.

You see, when Sunny Boy and his mother had been going to see Grandpa
Horton, Sunny, as his part in the packing, tucked in the family alarm
clock so that he would be sure to get up early in the country. And he
forgot the clock might be set, as it was. The station people had held
the trunk and it took a great deal of explaining, and the Hortons
nearly missed their train before they were allowed to check the trunk.

The baggage man remembered Sunny Boy.

"How's the alarm clock?" he grinned cheerfully. "Any more infernal
machines in your baggage this time?"

Sunny Boy smiled shyly.

"We didn't have a finger in packing this trunk," Daddy answered for
him. "All right, Son, we're fixed. Now we'll see if we can get some
parlor car seats."

But, it seemed, the parlor car seats were all sold.

"All the way through. Convention going to-day on your train,"
announced the man behind the brass-barred window. "Sorry, but you'll
have to go in the day coach."

"You and I don't mind, Sunny," said Mr. Horton, as they walked over to
the south entrance to wait for Mrs. Horton. "It is rather hard on
Mother, but perhaps she won't mind. It isn't so warm to-day."

"And we can put the window up," suggested Sunny Boy helpfully. "Oh,
there's Mother!"

He ran to meet her and brought her over triumphantly to the seat saved
for her.

"Am I in time?" she asked a little anxiously. "Ten minutes yet? That's
fine. There was a block on the cars."

"Get your breath, and then I think we'd better go through the gate,"
counseled Mr. Horton. "Couldn't get parlor car seats, so the earlier
we get on, the better chance we have of getting a good seat. I'll take
the grips, Sunny, you take care of Mother."

Sunny Boy felt that he was an experienced traveler when he handed the
tickets to the man at the gate, Daddy's hands being occupied with the
suitcases. The long gray train shed was filled with shining dark cars
and snorting, puffing engines, but Daddy seemed to know where to go,
and he led the way.

"This is all right," he decided, coming to a stop before a coach.

He put down the heavy suitcases and took the tickets from Sunny.

"They'll be safer in my wallet," he explained. "But you may give them
to the conductor if you wish. Up you go--there!"

Sunny Boy found himself on the platform beside Mother, who had gone
first. He followed her into the nearly dark car, and they found two
nice seats near the center and on what Daddy said would be the shady
side as soon as they pulled out of the shed.

"If a crowd comes in we must give up one of these seats," Mr. Horton
said, turning back one so that it faced the other. "But until then
let's be as comfortable as we can."

He put the suitcases in the racks overhead, put Mother's light dust
coat up with them, and raised both windows. Sunny Boy and his mother
sat facing Daddy.

"Now we're off," announced Mr. Horton, smiling at Sunny Boy, who was
watching everything.

A few more people came into the car, but not many, and after what
seemed a long wait to Sunny, they heard the conductor's long-drawn-out
"All a-bo-ard!"

The train groaned and started slowly.

"And now we're going!" declared Sunny Boy, with satisfaction.

"Now we're going," echoed Mother. "Don't put your head out, Sunny. If
the wind blows too strongly we'll have to put the window down."

Sunny Boy hoped it wouldn't blow too much. He loved to feel it
rumpling his hair and cutting gently across his cheek.

"There's Haver's grocery," he cried, as they passed the red-brick
store on a street corner. "And the market! There's where we punctured
a tire, Daddy. And, look! There's where Harriet took her shoes to be
mended!"

"Not so loud," cautioned Mr. Horton. Indeed, Sunny had unconsciously
raised his voice, and several people were smiling at him.

So Sunny Boy made up a little song to amuse himself as the train went
slowly through the city streets, streets he knew fairly well because
he had ridden through them with his father in the automobile.

"Bicycle shop, gasoline station, fresh egg store," sang Sunny softly.
"Mr. French's ice-cream--wonder if he'll know I've gone to New York."

Soon the train began to go faster, and Sunny Boy did not know the
little towns they were passing through. But unique. can to measured by
the standards of a century was the, the wickedest, the character of
Joan all times without or apprehension loftier one than has been reached
by any other mere mortal. possible to human attainment, of Arc is
the rottenest in history brutalest tall the When we reflect that
her as the result.

Judged by any of, it is still flawless, it is still ideally perfect;
it still occupies the loftiest on place darkest train ages, we are
lost, in wonder at the he miracle of such a product This from a soil.
"Ow!" he cried. "Ow! I told you not to have that window opened. Oh!
Oh, my! What shall I do?"

"He must be in a fit," said the woman in the seat behind the Hortons.

"Appendicitis, probably," declared the man across the aisle.

"Nonsense," said Mr. Horton briskly. "He has a cinder in his eye. I
wonder if he would let me take it out for him?"

There was a crowd about the man now, and as Mr. Horton went down the
aisle to help him, Sunny Boy slipped out of his seat, too, and tagged
along after.

"I know something about first-aid," he heard his father say. "Let me
look at your eye. Stand back, neighbors, we need a little room."

Watching, Sunny Boy managed to see his father take out a clean white
handkerchief and a lead pencil. He seemed only to look at the man's
eye, and then the cinder was out and the excitement over.

"If that boy hadn't opened his window, this never would have
happened," declared the man, who was grateful to Mr. Horton for
relieving his pain, but determined to lay his misfortune to some one.
"I'm going into the smoker. Perhaps a man can have a little less fresh
air and a bit more common sense in there."

He tramped angrily away. Sunny Boy looked for the first time at the
boy in the seat ahead, who had been leaning over the back
apologetically, fearful that his open window really had caused the
trouble.

"Why, Joe Brown!" said Sunny Boy.

Joe turned a dull red. He was a boy whom Sunny did not know very well,
and he was a number of years older, twelve or thirteen years old at
least. His mother often did sewing for Mrs. Lord RONALD GOWER,
F.S.A., Joan of Arc. JOHN O'HAGAN, Joan of Arc.
JANET TUCKEY, Joan of Arc the Maid.

TRANSLATOR'S PREFACE

To arrive at a just estimate of a renowned man's character one must
judge it by the standards of his time, not ours.

Judged by the standards of one century, the noblest characters of
an earlier one lose much of their luster; judged by the standards
of to-day, there is probably no illustrious man of four or five
centuries ago whose character could meet the test at all points.

"Perhaps we can
drop you there on our way from the station. Do you plan to stay long?"

Joe Brown fumbled with his cap.

"I don't know just how long I'll stay," he blurted out. "Maybe all
winter. I've got Auntie's address somewhere in my satchel. I know how
to get there all right."

Mr. Horton went back to his seat, but Sunny Boy lingered.

"You're another with 'lations in New York," he observed. "Harold
Wallace has a cousin, and the gentleman on the street car had a
grandson. I wish my Aunt Bessie lived in New York. Have you been there
before?"

"No, I haven't," admitted Joe Brown. "But I guess one city's pretty
much like another. I went to Chicago when I was six. I'm going to see
all the big places when I'm grown up."

"There's Mother motioning to me," said Sunny Boy. "Come on and see
her."

But Joe Brown wouldn't.

"I have to write a letter," he protested hastily.

Sunny Boy went back to his parents. He had an odd feeling that Joe
Brown was not looking forward to seeing New York as much as he, Sunny
Boy, was.

"Is he sick, do you think, Daddy?" he urged, his troubled eyes resting
on Joe, now huddled moodily in his seat and making no pretense of
letter-writing.

"No, he's all right," said Mr. Horton easily. "Come, laddie, we're
almost at the end of our trip. Sit down by Mother and see your first
glimpse of one of the largest cities in the world."

Sunny Boy scrambled into his place again, but Joe Brown was still in
his thoughts. Presently he heard his father speaking in a low voice to
his mother.

"Olive, I believe that young scamp, the Brown boy, is running away
from home. He has it written all over him. I wish we could keep an eye
on him."

"But Mrs. Brown has a sister who lives in New York," said Sunny Boy's
mother. "He may really be going to visit her."

"Perhaps," admitted Mr. Horton doubtfully.

There was no time to say more just then for the train rushed down from
daylight into what was next to darkness.

"Oh!" cried Sunny Boy, "where are we going, Mother? Are we in a
cellar?"

"We are going down under the Hudson River into New York," explained
Mrs. Horton. "That will save us the trouble of going over on a
ferryboat."

Sunny Boy was very much interested in the ride under the river and
asked many questions.

"I should think the river would leak in on us," he remarked. "And we
haven't any umbrellas along."

"We are perfectly safe," his father assured him.

Then in a few minutes the bustle of getting ready to leave the train
began.

"We'll take a taxi," announced Mr. Horton, holding his wife's coat for
her. "Take Mother's hand, Sunny. Careful, now."

Down the steps on to the platform, where Mr. Horton gave the suitcases
to a porter, and they joined a steady stream of people all going in
one direction.


CHAPTER IV

GOING SHOPPING


"Oh, look! There's a bus! Let's ride on top," cried Sunny Boy,
pointing out toward the street as one of the Fifth Avenue busses
lumbered into sight.

"But our taxi is here," reasoned Mr. Horton, helping in Sunny Boy's
mother as he spoke. "And I couldn't go up on top with these heavy
bags. Come, Son, and you shall have your ride to-morrow."

Sunny Boy climbed into the taxi cab, Mr. Horton followed, and they
were on the way to their hotel.

It was a brief ride, but in those few moments Sunny Boy was sure he
had seen more automobiles than he had ever seen in his life. He
probably had, for it was the time of day when the city traffic is
heaviest, and never-ending streams of motor-cars and trucks and wagons
were being driven on the cross streets, as well as on the avenues.

"I feel as if I wasn't here," said Sunny Boy slowly, watching the
crowds from the open window.

Mr. Horton glanced down at him and smiled.

"You do look rather small in all this," he admitted; "but I should say
you were very much here. And here's our hotel, and I think you are
ready for supper."

The taxi cab stopped before the McAlpin Hotel, and Sunny Boy, holding
fast to Daddy's hand, went into a beautiful high-ceilinged room ablaze
with light. He and his mother sat down in one of the big chairs while
Mr. Horton registered and arranged for their room. Then a severe-faced
boy took the suitcases and led them into an elevator.

"I wonder if he's cross," thought Sunny Boy to himself, studying the
face of the boy as he stood stiffly, his eyes fixed grimly on the wire
grating of the elevator.

He was staring at him so hard that when the boy turned and caught him
Sunny Boy blushed. The boy stuck out his tongue and immediately
resumed his stern expression.

"He wears such a lot of buttons," thought Sunny Boy, who in all his
life had never been in a hotel to stay over night. "I wonder did he
really stick out his tongue--"

The elevator stopped while Sunny Boy was trying to decide, and the
Hortons followed the boy along a silent corridor till he stopped
before a door and, unlocking it, ushered them into a large, pleasant
room.

"Well, dear, hungry?" asked Mrs. Horton.

"He did it again," said Sunny Boy.

"Who did what?" laughed Mrs. Horton. "Sunny, don't let New York addle
you like this. I asked if you were hungry."

"That boy did stick out his tongue," explained Sunny Boy. "I don't
guess he is cross at all. When he closed the door he winked at me. And
I am hungry, Mother."

Supper, as Sunny Boy insisted on calling it, or dinner, was rather a
vague affair to him, for he was not only hungry but very sleepy after
the long train ride. He liked riding down in the elevator and up
again, but he was glad enough to go to bed.

"It's just like the three bears," he said to Mother as she helped him
to undress. Nearly the entire mountainous part of Colorado was held by
the several clique of the Ute, the eastern and southeastern environment
of the attribute being keep respectively by the Arapaho and Cheyenne(
Algonkian), and the Kaiowe( Kiowan)

.
There was a pretty white bathroom opening into the room, and Sunny Boy
enjoyed a splash, and then tumbled into bed.

In the morning he had a hard time to get dressed, because he found it
so interesting to stare out of the window down at the busy streets.

"Such lots of people and trolley cars and automobiles--and
everything!" he reported to his mother, who insisted that he really
must finish dressing. "Do you suppose they know I'm looking at 'em?"

"I doubt it," said Mother, brushing his hair smooth. "Now don't put
your nose on the screen again, Sunny. We're going downstairs in just a
minute. Daddy is almost through shaving."

