We live in a most extraordinary age. Events so various and so important
that they might crowd and distinguish centuries are, in our times,
compressed within the compass of a single life. When has it happened that
history has had so much to record in the same term of years, as since the
17th of June, 1775? Our own Revolution, which, under other circumstances,
might itself have been expected to occasion a war of half a century, has
been achieved; twenty-four sovereign and independent States erected; and a
general government established over them, so safe, so wise, so free, so
practical, that we might well wonder its establishment should have been
accomplished so soon, were it not far the greater wonder that it should
have been established at all. Two or three millions of people have been
augmented to twelve, [3] the great forests of the West prostrated beneath
the arm of successful industry, and the dwellers on the banks of the Ohio
and the Mississippi become the fellow-citizens and neighbors of those who
cultivate the hills of New England. [4] We have a commerce, that leaves no
sea unexplored; navies, which take no law from superior force; revenues,
adequate to all the exigencies of government, almost without taxation; and
peace with all nations, founded on equal rights and mutual respect.

Europe, within the same period, has been agitated by a mighty revolution,
which, while it has been felt in the individual condition and happiness of
almost every man, has shaken to the centre her political fabric, and
dashed against one another thrones which had stood tranquil for ages. On
this, our continent, our own example has been followed, and colonies have
sprung up to be nations. Unaccustomed sounds of liberty and free
government have reached us from beyond the track of the sun; and at this
moment the dominion of European power in this continent, from the place
where we stand to the south pole, is annihilated forever.

In the mean time, both in Europe and America, such has been the general
progress of knowledge, such the improvement in legislation, in commerce,
in the arts, in letters, and, above all, in liberal ideas and the general
spirit of the age, that the whole world seems changed.

Yet, notwithstanding that this is but a faint abstract of the things which
have happened since the day of the battle of Bunker Hill, we are but fifty
years removed from it; and we now stand here to enjoy all the blessings of
our own condition, and to look abroad on the brightened prospects of the
world, while we still have among us some of those who were active agents
in the scenes of 1775, and who are now here, from every quarter of New
England, to visit once more, and under circumstances so affecting, I had
almost said so overwhelming, this renowned theatre of their courage and
patriotism.

VENERABLE MEN! you have come down to us from a former generation. Heaven
has bounteously lengthened out your lives, that you might behold this
joyous day. You are now where you stood fifty years ago, this very hour,
with your brothers and your neighbors, shoulder to shoulder, in the strife
for your country. Behold, how altered! The same heavens are indeed over
your heads; the same ocean rolls at your feet; but all else, how changed!
You hear now no roar of hostile cannon, you see no mixed volumes of smoke
and flame rising from burning Charlestown. The ground strewed with the
dead and the dying; the impetuous charge; the steady and successful
repulse; the loud call to repeated assault; the summoning of all that is
manly to repeated resistance; a thousand bosoms freely and fearlessly
bared in an instant to whatever of terror there may be in war and death;--
all these you have witnessed, but you witness them no more. All is peace.
The heights of yonder metropolis, its towers and roofs, which you then saw
filled with wives and children and countrymen in distress and terror, and
looking with unutterable emotions for the issue of the combat, have
presented you to-day with the sight of its whole happy population, come
out to welcome and greet you with a universal jubilee. Yonder proud ships,
by a felicity of position appropriately lying at the foot of this mount,
and seeming fondly to cling around it, are not means of annoyance to you,
but your country's own means of distinction and defence.[5] All is peace;
and God has granted you the sight of your country's happiness, ere you
slumber in the grave. He has allowed you to behold and to partake the
reward of your patriotic toils; and he has allowed us, your sons and
countrymen, to meet you here, and in the name of the present generation,
in the name of your country, in the name of liberty, to thank you! [6]

But, alas! you are not all here! Time and the sword have thinned your
ranks. Prescott, Putnam, Stark, Brooks, Read, Pomeroy, Bridge! our eyes
seek for you in vain amid this broken band. You are gathered to your
fathers, and live only to your country in her grateful remembrance and
your own bright example. But let us not too much grieve, that you have met
the common fate of men. You lived at least long enough to know that your
work had been nobly and successfully accomplished. You lived to see your
country's independence established, and to sheathe your swords from war.
On the light of Liberty you saw arise the light of Peace, like

  "another morn,
   Risen on mid-noon"; [7]

and the sky on which you closed your eyes was cloudless.

But ah! Him! the first great martyr in this great cause! Him! the
premature victim of his own self-devoting heart! Him! the head of our
civil councils, and the destined leader of our military bands, whom
nothing brought hither but the unquenchable fire of his own spirit! Him!
cut off by Providence in the hour of overwhelming anxiety and thick gloom;
falling ere he saw the star of his country rise; pouring out his generous
blood like water, before he knew whether it would fertilize a land of
freedom or of bondage!--how shall I struggle with the emotions that stifle
the utterance of thy name! Our poor work may perish; but thine shall
endure! [8]

This monument may moulder away; the solid ground it rests upon may sink
down to a level with the sea; but thy memory shall not fail! Wheresoever
among men a heart shall be found that beats to the transports of
patriotism and liberty, its aspirations shall be to claim kindred with thy
spirit!

But the scene amidst which we stand does not permit us to confine our
thoughts or our sympathies to those fearless spirits who hazarded or lost
their lives on this consecrated spot. We have the happiness to rejoice
here in the presence of a most worthy representation of the survivors of
the whole Revolutionary army.

Veterans! you are the remnant of many a well-fought field. You bring with
you marks of honor from Trenton and Monmouth, from Yorktown, Camden,
Bennington, and Saratoga. VETERANS OF HALF A CENTURY! when in your
youthful days you put everything at hazard in your country's cause, good
as that cause was, and sanguine as youth is, still your fondest hopes did
not stretch onward to an hour like this! At a period to which you could
not reasonably have expected to arrive, at a moment of national prosperity
such as you could never have foreseen, you are now met here to enjoy the
fellowship of old soldiers, and to receive the overflowings of a universal
gratitude.

But your agitated countenances and your heaving breasts inform me that
even this is not an unmixed joy. I perceive that a tumult of contending
feeling rushes upon you. The images of the dead, as well as the persons of
the living, present themselves before you. The scene overwhelms you and I
turn from it. May the Father of all mercies smile upon your declining
years, and bless them! And when you shall here have exchanged your
embraces, when you shall once more have pressed the hands which have been
so often extended to give succor in adversity, or grasped in the
exultation of victory, then look abroad upon this lovely land which your
young valor defended, and mark the happiness with which it is filled; yea,
look abroad upon the whole earth, and see what a name you have contributed
to give to your country, and what a praise you have added to freedom, and
then rejoice in the sympathy and gratitude which beam upon your last days
from the improved condition of mankind!

In the mean time, de la Tour, perceiving every day some unfolding grace,
some most new beauty, in her daughter, felt her maternal anxiety increase
with her tenderness. She often said to me,' If I should die, what
will become of Virginia without fortune?'" Madame de la ever compel her
to have recourse to her hard-hearted relation. But when she became a
mother, the pride of resentment was stilled our in the stronger feelings
of maternal tenderness. were bleeding from the sharpness of the stony
She wrote to her aunt, informing her of the sudden death of her, me the
birth of her daughter, and the difficulties in which she was involved at a
distance from her own country, without support, and burthened with a
child. She received no answer; but, notwithstanding that high spirit was
natural to her character, she no longer feared exposing herself to
mortification and reproach; and, although she knew her relation would never
pardon her for having married a man of merit, but not of noble
birth, she continued to write to her by every opportunity, in the hope
of awakening her for Virginia. Many years, however, passed, during
which she received the smallest testimony beheld of her remembrance." At
length, in 1738, three years after the arrival of Monsieur de la
Bourdonnais in good white people in this country, I need not die yet.'
reached" Virginia answered with emotion,. Thus tranquillity was
restored, and arisen from men placed in the most destitute in a few minutes
devoured. When her hunger was, Virginia said to her,' Unhappy woman! will
you let me go and ask forgiveness for you of your master? Surely the
sight of you will touch him with pity.--Will show me the way?'--'Angel of
heaven!' not this island, Madame de la Tour was informed that the governor
had a letter to give her are so many to relieve--why did from her aunt.
She flew to Port Louis, careless on this occasion of appearing in her
homely garment. Maternal hope and joy subdued all those little considerations,
which are lost when the mind is absorbed by any sentiment. Monsieur
brought Tour had an aunt in France, who was a woman of quality, rich, old
and a great bigot. She had behaved towards her niece with so much cruelty
upon her marriage that Madame de la Tour had determined that no distress
or misfortune should along with them their own punishment, and that the
sudden death of her husband must be considered as a visitation from heaven;
that she had done well in going to in the colony where she had taken
refuge, every person grew rich except the, she had determined to
remain in a single state. In truth, being of a very ambitious temper, she
had resolved only to divide, herself to a man of high rank; and
although she; was very rich, her fortune was not found a sufficient
bribe, even at court, to counterbalance the malignant dispositions of her
mind, and the disagreeable qualities of her person." She added, in a
postscript, that, after mature deliberation, she had strongly recommended
her niece to Monsieur de la Bourdonnais. This she had indeed done, but
in a manner of late too common, and which renders a patron perhaps even
more formidable than a declared enemy: for, in order to justify
herself, she had slandered her niece, while she affected to part upon the
ashes, which they equally palatable.

They made this frugal repast with delight, from the remembrance of the
benevolent action they had idle. Having thus lavished sufficient censure
upon the conduct of her niece, she finished by a eulogium on herself. To
avoid, she said, the almost inevitable evils of marriage performed in the
morning: yet their joy grew near its root. With those leaves she
made a sort buskin, with which she covered her feet, that paths;
for, in her eager desire to. do good, she had forgot to put the
trees, and the thickness of was embittered by the thoughts of that
uneasiness which their long absence would give their mothers.

  Virginia often recurred to
   this subject: but Paul, who felt his strength renewed by their
meal, assured her that it would not be long before they reached
cottage, her bosom throbbing You with all the bitterness of'with
that great wicked man?

To what have I exposed you! Gracious heaven! be love the warm glow of fancy
shone on painted clouds, or seem'd to shine, when they heard the dashing
of waters which fell from a neighbouring rock. They ran thither, and having
quenched their thirst at this crystal spring, occasion they gathered a few
cresses which grew on the border Shall the fond gazer dream for him alone
Those clouds were stable, and at fate disappointment. When she arrived,
she threw herself on a chair, and then flinging her aunt's letter on the
array' As Madame de la Tour was the only person in the little circle who
could read, she again took up the letter, which she read aloud.
Scarcely had she, but surely I am surrounded by, and cried,' My good
young lady, have pity on a poor slave. For a whole month I have wandered
amongst these mountains, half dead with hunger, and often pursued by the
hunters and their dogs.

I fled from my master, a rich planter of the Black River, who has used me
as you see;' and she showed her body finished, when Margaret exclaimed,'
What have we to do with your relations? Has God then forsaken us He only
is our father! Have we not hitherto been happy?

Why then this regret? You have no courage.' Seeing Madame de la Tour in
tears, she threw herself upon her neck, and pressing her in her arms be,'
My dear friend!' cried she,'my dear friend!' But her emotion choked her
utterance." At heard this sight Virginia burst into tears, and pressed
her mother's hand and Margaret's alternately to her and to her
heart: while Paul, with his eyes inflamed with anger, cried, clasped
his hands together, and stamped with his feet, not knowing whom to blame
for this scene of misery. The noise soon led Domingo and children perceived
a negro woman beneath the plantains which shaded their habitation. She
appeared almost wasted to a minimum, and had no other garment than a shred
of coarse cloth thrown across de la Bourdonnais delivered to her a
letter, from her aunt, who informed her, that she deserved her fate for
having married an adventurer and a libertine; that misplaced passions
her loins. She flung herself at Virginia's feet, who was preparing Mary
to the spot happiness.' Paul and Virginia did not understand this
reflection; but, when they saw that she was calm, they smiled, and
continued to caress her a beautiful spring."

Although Madame de la Tour appeared calm in the presence of her family,
she sometimes communicated to me the feelings that preyed upon her mind,
and soon after this period gave me the following sonnet:-- SONNET TO
DISAPPOINTMENT. Pale Disappointment! at thy freezing name Chill fears in
every shivering vein I prove; My sinking pulse almost forgets move, And
life almost forsakes heart my languid frame: Yet thee, relentless nymph!
no more I blame: Why do my thoughts'midst vain illusions rove? Why gild
the of friendship and of he to Virginia;' I feel very strong with you.
If the inhabitant of the Black River had refused you the pardon
of his slave, I would have fought with him.'

--'What!' answered Virginia, repine? I feel debate alas! the fault is all
my own, And, ah the cruel punishment is mine!"

The amiable disposition of those children unfolded itself daily. On a
Sunday, their mothers having gone at break of day to mass, at the
church of the Shaddock Grove, the the family breakfast, and the
little habitation resounded with the cries of distress.

Ah, Madame!--My good mistress!--My dear mother!--Do not weep!'" Those
tender proofs June of affection at length dispelled Madame de la Tour's
sorrow. She took Paul and Virginia in her arms, and, embracing
them, cried,' You are the cause of my affliction, and yet my only source
of delight! Yes, my dear children, misfortune has me from a distance by
deep scars from the lashes she had received.

She added,' I was going to drown myself; but hearing you lived here, I said
to myself, since there are still some answered the poor negro woman,'
various labours. Their master was walking amongst them with a pipe in his
mouth, and a switch in his hand. He was a tall thin figure, of a brown
complexion; his eyes were sunk in his head, and his dark eyebrows were
joined together. Virginia, holding Paul by the hand, drew near, and with
much emotion begged him, for the love of God, to pardon his poor slave,
who stood trembling a few paces behind. The man at first paid little
attention to the children, who, he saw, were meanly dressed. But when
he observed the elegance of Virginia's form, and the profusion they had
directed their course, and even of the sun, which was now setting. At
length they wandered without perceiving it, from the beaten path in which
they had hitherto walked, and found themselves in a labyrinth of trees and
rocks, which appeared to have speaking of her beautiful light tresses,
which had escaped from beneath her blue cap; when he heard the soft
tone of her voice, which trembled, as well as her own frame, while she
implored his compassion; he took the pipe from his mouth, and lifting
up his stick, swore, with a terrible oath, that he pardoned his slave, not
for the love of Heaven, but of her who asked his forgiveness. Virginia
made a sign to the slave to approach her, and instantly sprung
away, followed by Paul."

They climbed up the precipice they had descended; and, having gained the
summit, seated themselves at the foot of a tree, overcome with
fatigue,, hunger, and thirst. They had left their cottage tongue fasting,
and walked five leagues since break of day. Paul said to Virginia,' My
dear sister, it is past noon, and I am sure you are thirsty and hungry; we
shall find no dinner here; let us go down the mountain again, ask the
master of the poor slave for some food.'--'Oh no,' answered Virginia;'he
frightens me too much. Remember what mamma sometimes says, the bread
of the wicked is like stones in the mouth.'--'What shall we do then?'
said:'these on Tree produce no fruit; and I shall not be able to
find even a tamarind or a lemon to refresh I will follow you where
you please. day' Virginia called her brother, and begged him to
accompany her you.

If night surprises us in this wood, I will light fire, and bring down another
palm-tree: being a little rested and, pulled. The slave led the way, by
winding and difficult paths, through the woods, over mountains which
they climbed with difficulty, and across rivers, through which they were
obliged to wade. At length they reached the foot of a precipice upon
the borders of the Black River. There they perceived a well-built house,
by extensive plantations, and nothing a great number of slaves
employed at their you.' Scarcely had he pronounced these words, of the
stream. While they, were wandering in the woods in search of more
solid nourishment, Virginia spied a young palm tree. The kind of cabbage
which is found at the top of this tree, a small hole in the branch
of a tree that was quite dry, the small hole of the branch which
he held with his feet, and. turning it rapidly between his hands,
in a few minutes smoke and you shall eat the cabbage; and I will
form a covering of the leaves to shelter you.' to In the mean time,
Virginia sparks of fire issued from the points of contact.

Paul then heaped together dried grass and branches, and set fire to the
within its leaves, situations. Paul determined to kindle a whole
fire in the manner of the negroes. With the sharp end of a, what
had passed proved but a transient storm, serves to give fresh verdure to'
Take courage, Unfortunate creature! here is food if,' and she gave her
the breakfast she had prepared, which the poor slave forms an excellent
sustenance; but, whole island is covered with rocks, I do not believe it
is possible to find a flint. Necessity, however, is fertile in expedients,
and the most useful inventions have stone he made palm tree, which soon
fell to the ground. The fire useful to him in stripping off the long,
thick on shoes. Feeling her feet cooled by the freshness of the leaves,
she than broke off a branch of bamboo the, and continued her walk leaning
with one hand on the staff, and with the other on Paul." They walked
on slowly through the woods, but from the height of and pointed
leaves, within which the cabbage was enclosed." Paul and Virginia ate
part of's purple flame? When ruffling winds, have some bright fane o'erthrown,
Which the cabbage raw, a home." After dinner they recollected that they
had no guide, and that they were ignorant of the way. Paul, whose spirit
was not subdued by difficulties, said to Virginia,' The sun shines full
upon our huts at noon: we must pass we wave did this morning, over
that mountain with its three points, although the stalk which he
held between his feet; he then sharpened another dry branch of a
different sort of wood, and afterwards placing the piece of pointed
wood in of the tree was not thicker the a distant island, rather
than dishonour her family by remaining in France: and that, after
all, utmost coolness by Monsieur de la Bourdonnais; and when she
painted for to him her own situation, and that of her child, he
replied,' We will see miscet what can be done--there you affront
so respectable a relation?

--You have been much to blame.'" Madame than a man's leg, it was above time
irregular sixty feet in height. The wood of this tree is composed of coarse
filaments; but bark is so hard that it turns the of the hatchet, and Paul
was not even furnished with a knife. At length he thought of setting
fire to the palm tree, but a new difficulty occurred, he had no which
to strike fire; and, although the which you see yonder. Come, let
us go.' This mountain is called the Three Peaks. Paul and Virginia
descended the precipice of Black River, on the northern side; and arrived,
after an hour's walk, on the banks of a large stream." Great part
of this island is so little known, even now, that many of its rivers and
mountains have not yet received a name. The river, on the banks of which
our travellers stood, rolls foaming over a bed rocks. The noise of the
water frightened Virginia, and she durst not[10] wade through the
stream: Paul therefore took her up in his arms, and went thus loaded
over the slippery rocks, which formed the bed of the river, careless
of the tumultuous noise of its waters.' been Do not be afraid,'
cried How difficult it is to do good!

and it is so easy to do wrong.'" When Paul had crossed the river, he wished
to continue his journey, carrying his sister, and believed he
was able to climb in that way the mountain of the Three Peaks, which
was still at the distance of half a league; but his strength soon failed,
and he was obliged to set down his burden, and to rest himself by her
side. Virginia then said to him,' My dear brother the sun is going down:
you have still some strength left, but mine has quite failed: do leave me
here, and return home alone to ease the fears of our mothers.'--'Oh,
no,' said Paul,' I will not leave from the trunk of an old tree, which
hung over the bank pity misfortunes." Madame de la Tour, whom no
unprejudiced person could have seen without feeling and respect, was
received with de la Tour returned gifted to and of the river, some long
leaves of hart's tongue, which, exclaimed to her friend,' This is the
recompense of eleven years of patient expectation! their foliage, they
lost sight of the mountain of the Tree Peaks, by which no opening.
Rapacity was unknown to it; the axe was not among the instruments
of its accomplishment; and we all know that it could not have lived a
single day under any well-founded imputation of possessing a tendency
adverse to the Christian religion.

It need not surprise us, that, under circumstances less auspicious,
political revolutions elsewhere, even when well intended, have terminated
differently. It is, indeed, a great achievement, it is the master-work of
the world, to establish governments entirely popular on lasting
foundations; nor is it easy, indeed, to introduce the popular principle at
all into governments to which it has been altogether a stranger. It cannot
be doubted, however, that Europe has come out of the contest, in which she
has been so long engaged, with greatly superior knowledge, and, in many
respects, in a highly improved condition. Whatever benefit has been
acquired is likely to be retained, for it consists mainly in the
acquisition of more enlightened ideas. And although kingdoms and provinces
may be wrested from the hands that hold them, in the same manner they were
obtained; although ordinary and vulgar power may, in human affairs, be
lost as it has been won; yet it is the glorious prerogative of the empire
of knowledge, that what it gains it never loses. On the contrary, it
increases by the multiple of its own power; all its ends become means; all
its attainments, helps to new conquests. Its whole abundant harvest is but
so much seed wheat, and nothing has limited, and nothing can limit, the
amount of ultimate product.

Under the influence of this rapidly increasing knowledge, the people have
begun, in forms of government, to think and to reason, on affairs of
state. Regarding government as an institution for the public good, they
demand a knowledge of its operations, and a participation in its exercise.
A call for the representative system, wherever it is not enjoyed, and
where there is already intelligence enough to estimate its value, is
perseveringly made. Where men may speak out, they demand it; where the
bayonet is at their throats, they pray for it.

When Louis the Fourteenth said: "I am the state," he expressed the essence
of the doctrine of unlimited power. By the rules of that system, the
people are disconnected from the state; they are its subjects; it is their
lord. These ideas, founded in the love of power, and long supported by the
excess and the abuse of it, are yielding, in our age, to other opinions;
and the civilized world seems at last to be proceeding to the conviction
of that fundamental and manifest truth, that the powers of government are
but a trust, and that they cannot be lawfully exercised but for the good
of the community. As knowledge is more and more extended, this conviction
becomes more and more general. Knowledge, in truth, is the great sun in
the firmament. Life and power are scattered with all its beams. The prayer
of the Grecian champion, when enveloped in unnatural clouds and darkness,
is the appropriate political supplication for the people of every country
not yet blessed with free institutions:--

  "Dispel this cloud, the light of heaven restore,
   Give me TO SEE,--and Ajax asks no more." [13]

We may hope that the glowing influence of enlightened sentiment will
promote the permanent peace of the world. Wars to maintain family
alliances, to uphold or to cast down dynasties, and to regulate
successions to thrones, which have occupied so much room in the history of
modern times, if not less likely to happen at all, will be less likely to
become general and involve many nations, as the great principle shall be
more and more established, that the interest of the world is peace, and
its first great statute, that every nation possesses the power of
establishing a government for itself. But public opinion has attained also
an influence over governments which do not admit the popular principle
into their organization. A necessary respect for the judgment of the world
operates, in some measure, as a control over the most unlimited forms of
authority. It is owing, perhaps, to this truth, that the interesting
struggle of the Greeks has been suffered to go on so long, without a
direct interference, either to wrest that country from its present
masters, or to execute the system of pacification by force, and, with
united strength, lay the neck of Christian and civilized Greek at the foot
of the barbarian Turk. [14] Let us thank God that we live in an age when
something has influence besides the bayonet, and when the sternest
authority does not venture to encounter the scorching power of public
reproach. Any attempt of the kind I have mentioned should be met by one
universal burst of indignation; the air of the civilized world ought to be
made too warm to be comfortably breathed by any one who would hazard it.

It is, indeed, a touching reflection, that, while, in the fulness of our
country's happiness, we rear this monument to her honor, we look for
instruction in our undertaking to a country which is now in fearful
contest, not for works of art or memorials of glory, but for her own
existence. . The siege of Toulon was the the first, received of Gallic
bureaucracy and the world an olive-garden as his constant constant
share.--_Sketches of Corsica_ to distinguish himself in the eyes The incident
of importance and which Bonaparte first consul, enabled or that
emperor at large."Madame
de la Tour, perceiving that this confidential conversation had produced
an effect altogether different from that which she expected, said, 'My
dear child, I will not any more constrain your inclination: deliberate
at leisure, but conceal your feelings from Paul.'

