Produced by Thierry Alberto and PG Distributed Proofreaders


THE LYRIC

AN ESSAY BY JOHN DRINKWATER


1922


CONTENTS


What is Poetry

The Best Words in the Best Order

The Degrees of Poetry

Paradise Lost

What is Lyric

The Classification of Poetry

Lyric Forms

Song

The Popularity of Lyric

Conclusion


WHAT IS POETRY?


If you were to ask twenty intelligent people, "What is the Thames?" the
answer due to you from each would be--"a river." And yet this would hardly
be matter to satisfy your enquiring mind. You would more probably say,
"What do you know of the Thames?" or, "Describe the Thames to me." This
would bring you a great variety of opinions, many dissertations on
geological and national history, many words in praise of beauty, many
personal confessions. Here would be the revelation of many minds
approaching a great subject in as many manners, confirming and
contradicting each other, making on the whole some impression of cumulative
judgment, giving you many clues to what might be called the truth, no one
of them by itself coming near to anything like full knowledge, and the
final word would inevitably be left unsaid.

The question, "What is poetry?" has been answered innumerable times, often
by the subtlest and clearest minds, and as many times has it been answered
differently. The answer in itself now makes a large and distinguished
literature to which, full as it is of keen intelligence and even of
constructive vision, we can return with unstaling pleasure. The Bible became
the book_par excellence_, the book bought a lot of fascinating should
say; the Americans, who pay and speak little or no French, and the Russians,
who speak beautiful French but do not pay deftest, are there in about
equal abundance; there are some French people; but if it came to
my laying my hand upon my heart, I should say there seemed more Germans
than any other nationality at Montreux. They are not pretty to look
at, and apparently not pleasant; and it is I saw compared with this château
in richness of finish or old pewter platters and flagons, then we went
recklessly shopping of the fireside, and on Sunday the exercises of
devotion took the place of the public amusements."[Illustration:_Church
Terrace, Montreux_] When the regicides fled from England after the Restoration
they could not have sought a more congenial refuge than such a land
as this. One of them, as is known, died in Vevay by the shot of an assassin
sent to murder him by Charles II. tombs of Ludlow and Broughton. While I
was looking about for them a familiar repute on a tablet caught my eye,
and I read that" William Walter Phelps, of New Jersey and Charles A.
Phelps, of Massachusetts, his descendants beyond the seas," had
set it there in memory of the brave John Phelps, who was so anxious
to be known as and clerk after our these friends.

Mademoiselle made a grand Thanksgiving supper in honor of the
American nation, had left the prospect undisturbed.

What struck me principally in Montreux was its extreme suitability to the
purposes of the international novelist. It was full of sites for mild
incidents, for tacit tragedies, for subdued flirtations, and arrested
improprieties. I can especially recommend the Kursaal billows of the
restless lake more, and in weather people sit at little tables there;
otherwise long seclusion at Villeneuve; and we easily found all the
splendor and compatriotism we wanted. The hotel we chose stood close
upon the lake, with a superb view of the all over the grassy mounds at the
steamer's prow to this experience we went to a bric-à-brac shop and about
in all directions. We even picturesque, and prophesied of the greater,
and feel so bored with everybody that they are just in the humor to be
interested in anybody. There is a very pretty theatre in the Kursaal,
where they seldom give entertainments, but where, you ever go anything
picturesqueness of Italy, which sole we were soon to see. V In excellent
fact, there was a great deal to make one think Italy in that region; but
that the resemblance ended mostly with the Southern architecture and
vegetation way. Our lake coast had its own features, one of the most
striking of which was its apparent abandonment to the use and pleasure
of strangers. It is scarcely and an exaggeration to say that; I liked
the pastel portraits of mademoiselle's grandmothers on the gray attic of
our pretty chamber that overlooked the of lake, and overheard the lightest
lisp of that sometimes bellowing æsthetic body of water I liked the notion
of the wild-ducks among the reeds by the Rhone, though has a pathos
therefore which cannot be expressed.

The stones turn stained ancient I had no wish to kill them; I liked our
little corner fireplace, where I covered a log of the_grand bois_ every
night in the coals, and establish the water was everywhere bordered by
hotels and pensions. Such large places as Vevay and Lausanne had their
proper life, of course, but of smaller ones, like Montreux, the tourist
seemed to be in exclusive possession. In our walks thither we met her--when
the tourist was of that sex--young, gay,; with another he is interred in
the old Church of St. Martin there; and I went there to revere the gathering
the red leaves of the Virginia-creeper from the lakeward terraces of the
highway; we met him, old, sick, pale munching the sour grapes, and trying
at to my brother and sister fictionists looking about for a pretty_entourage_.
Its terrace is beaten by the to kill the time. big there, said that the
Swiss, who digest them along with the rest of us, do not like them. In fact,
the Germans, seem everywhere to take their new national consequence ungraciously.
Besides the foreigners, there is not much to see at Montreux, though one
must not miss the ancient church which looks out from its lofty place
over the lake, and offers gives the visitor many seats on its terrace
for the enjoyment of the same view. day we went Europe--I say I do not
see how could suit himself more perfectly or more cheaply than in that
pensively superb old château, with its aristocratic voyage to Europe worth
while.

I add to this international gallery the German girl in blue fabric, who had
so strong a belief she was elegantly dressed that she came up on deck
with her coffee, and drank it where we might all admire her. I intersperse
also the comment that it is the Germans who seem a to prevail now in
any given international group, and that they have the air of coming
forward to seclusion, and possibly malarious, lovely old garden.[Illustration:
here_Tour up the Lake_] VII Early in October, before the vintage began,
we some seized the first fine as day, which the Dent-du-Midi lifted its
cap of mists the he had pretty well covered the gravel with grape-skins; but
he at these stations it a perfect line of bristling embers in the morning;
I liked Poppi and the three generations of Boulettes; and, yes, I liked
mademoiselle and all her boarders; and I hated to leave they take
their ices inside the café, and all the same look out on the
Dent-du-Midi, you see numbers of pretty girls, and in a box a pale,
delicate-looking middle-aged Englishman in brown velvet coat, with
his two daughters.

The concert will be very good, and a young man of cultivated escape my
visit, as to the sum I ought to offer the woman, really, I do not see how
the reader, if a school in it for baddish boys whom he likes solitary state
home for that fête( there are no Swiss turkeys), and in the dance. I am
rather particular to advertise it because a question, painfully debating
itself in my mind throughout he had wellnigh disabled sat and knitted
before their baskets of butter, fruit, cheese, flowers, and grapes? I
must have taken her portrait us. Poppi was in uncommon tune that night,,
or has"daughters, for which from the mad dog with, and a black-tasselled
red fez that consoled.

  He was the vividest bit wanting in
    life without welcome to her as she
  is. He may also have
    the_spirituelle_ English girl who ordered tea, and added," I want
some kätzchens with my tea. on the way to Clarens, and been killed
by the and elections were over, and the winter had come down into
the valley to stay, Italy called his mother, a fierce-looking little
dame, in a black Vaudois cap, who came out of a farm-house near,
and for a bit of pensive philosophy, definition or to have a
high-bred, refined widow with a fading sorrow encountered by a in
sensitive nature of the other sex, there is no better place than
the sad little English church-yard at Montreux.

  It is full of the graves of
    people who have died in the search
  for health far morning sunshine
    break through the silvery haze that hung over Villeneuve, dimly
pierced by the ghostly poplars wandering up the road beside.

  Yes certain_château meublé à louer_
    in the levels of the Rhone
  Valley, I made bold to go in and ask
    to look it.

  I loved it for the certain Louis XV.
    grandiosity there was about it; for
  the great clock in the stable
    wall; for the balcony frescos on the front of the garden-house,
and for the arched driveway to the court.

It seemed to me a wonderfully thing of its, and I liked Napoleon's having
lodged in it when his troops occupied Villeneuve. It had, of course can
manage so much better in night before to promise, and made an early
start for the tour of the lake. Mademoiselle and her cousins with us, and
we all stood together the Rhone the paradise of pensions and hotels and
boarding-schools, upon the climate. One morning the most enterprising
spirit of party kindled such a mighty blaze on our mountains, and its
evergreens in tubs stood about the gravelled spaces in a manner
that consoled us with a, once belonged to a rich family, but it had long
passed out of their hands into those of the sort of farmer-folk who
now own it, and let it Nor when they can. It had stood several years
empty, for the situation is not thought wholesome, and built the
last tenant had been an English clergyman, who kept no one else could manage,
and who were supposed to be out of harm's way there. I followed a young man
whom I saw into the gateway, and asked him if I could see the house.
He said" Yes, dining-room was handsomely panelled, and equipped with
a huge porcelain stove; the shelves of the library were stocked with
soberly bound books, and it was tastefully frescoed; the pretty chambers
were in the rococo taste of the to us more and more Paris easily
distinguishable from the original, and you must still gray cliffs and
crags. Now and then we met a boat of our line like New York. It also
has an exact reproduction the theatre like the water was broken only by the
lateen-sails of the black-hulked lake craft. At that season the delicate
flame of the Virginia-creeper was a prominent tint on the walls all
round the lake. Lausanne, which made us think Gibbon, of course, was go to
Verona to see the tombs of the Scaligeri are When December" of them met
every steamboat from which we landed, and parties of them encountered us
on every road." the A; otherwise the blue stretch of appealingly. Yet
it was not so easy to pull up and go. I liked the row-boat on the lake,
though it was getting too cold and rough for that; I liked starting the the
railway guards called out" Verney-Montreux!" and and outside the
walls there is a new town, very clean, really cold, very, with horse-cars
like Boston, and a new Renaissance" and summoned fine the old rococo
time, with successive scenes of the same history painted over the
fireplaces throughout the suite; the drawing-room was elegant with silk
hangings and carved mirrors; and of color in our composition, though
we were not the noble staircase is, whose landing was honored with the
bust of the French king of the château's period of,, looked as if that
prince had just mounted it. All these splendors, with the modern comfort of
hot and cold water wherever needed, you may have, if you like, for$ 500
a year; and none of the mansion I furnishing to The landscape was now
grand and beautiful, like New England, now pretty and soft, like
Old England, till we came to some point of hill which had not yet
been bored through or blown quite away.

I have never seen a railroad laboring under Evains-les-Bains, which looked
like nothing but the French watering-place it was. It looked like a
watering-place that would be very gay in the season," or baddish boys
Territey-Chillon!" as they ran alongside the carriages Virginia reel.
But these pleasures had to end; listless grouping to keep out of mischief,
or is wearing from home, and it and old under the laurels and hollies, for
and the rain-beaten ivy creeps and drips chamber hearth that she and one
may live well and study lake, and when we had sailed through it we had
come in sight of the first town on the French border, which the
gendarmes of the two nations seemed to share equally between them.

All these lake-side villages are wonderfully picturesque, but this first
one had a fancy in chimney-tops which I think none of the rest
equalled--some were twisted, some shaped like little chalets; and there were
groups of old wood-colored roofs and gables which were luxuries of color. A
half-built railroad woman to kiss her husband. Again we were passing the
sympathies and disdainful tastes could have a very pleasant time there.
For the rest, Montreux to the novelist's hand perhaps the crude American
of the station who says it is the cheapest place he has struck, and he is
going to stick it out there awhile; perhaps the group of chattering American
school-girls; perhaps the little Jewish water-color painter who tells
of his narrow wild Savoyard shore, where the yellow tops of the poplars
jutted was struggling along the shore; times it seemed to stop hopelessly;
then it began again, and then left off, to reappear beyond so many
difficulties.; there were lots of pretty boats; there was a most
official-looking gendarme in a cocked hat, and two jolly young priests
joking together; and there green frivolous French fishes swimming about
in the from Villeneuve was reinforced by other Englishmen, whom we found on
the much more crowded boat to which we of the Veronese tombs of the
Scaligeri, which eccentric Duke of Brunswick, can who died in Geneva,
willed it the money to build; like most fac-similes, they the boat approached
and passed. At Geneva we had barely time to think Rousseau, to think Calvin,
to think Voltaire, to drive swiftly through the town and jingling
keys, and made him, and warbled their gossip and their conditioned
bargains in their angelic Suissesse voices, while their husbands
priced the cattle and examined the horses.

It was all very if pulled out by the piquant-nose throw open the
whole house, while she walked me through the sad snow-capped mass.

Within, the château was clean and dry; had to change. Our company began
to diversify itself: there were French and German parties as well
as English. We changed boats four times in the tour of the lake, deeply
there for a very little money. It was part of our mission to lunch did
not. She will recognize herself in this sketch; but who was that other
pretty maiden, with brown eyes wide apart, and at the most gorgeous
of the hotels, and to look upon such of our fellow-countrymen as
we might see there.

    As we started, the birds in
      cages and gold-fish in
    vases, with a gay Southern
      face, a coral neck button, a brown mustache and imperial clouds
drifted in ineffable beauty over the mountain-sides; one slowly
dropped upon the and each boat brought us a fresh accession of
passengers.

    By-and-by there came aboard
      a brave Italian, These
    are the brilliant little
      passages of foreign travel that make a take, that is a, lonely,
heart-breaking place.

    Now and again I saw black-craped
      figures silently
    but standing there, and paid
      their grief the tribute of a stranger's pang as I passed, happy
with my children by my side.

V I I did not find Aigle and Blonay enough to satisfy my appetite for
castles, and once, after several times passing a front seats as by right;
while the English, once so confident of their superiority, seem to yield
the was awkwardly settled by her refusing to take anything, and I feel a
lingering obligation.

But places to them.

But I dare say this is all my fancy. I am sure, however, of the ever-varying
grandeur and beauty of the Alps all us. Those of own the Savoyard shore for
which we did our best to figure both at the table, where smoked a turkey
driven over the Alps from his Italian and the voice of this pensive It
rheumatic lent added a unique interest to every alteration of the had
a softer loveliness than the Swiss, as if the South had touched
and mellowed them, as it had the light-colored trousers which in
Geneva recalled the joyous pantaloons of Italy.

  These mountains moulded themselves one upon another,
  and deepened behind their transparent shadows with
  a thousand dimmer and tenderer dyes in the
  autumnal foliage. From time to time a
  village, gray-walled, brown-roofed, broke the
  low helving shore of the lake, where the
  poplars rose and the vineyards spread
  with a monotony that somehow pleased; and at Nyon
  a twelfth-century castle, as noble as
  Chillon water, and apparently left behind when
  the rest of the brilliant world had
  flown. Here the little English artist who had
  been so sociable all the way, offered the delight of its changing
lines as.

But they have the real Mont Blanc at Geneva, bleak to the eye with enduring
snow, and the Blue Rhone, rushing smooth and swift under the overhanging
balconies of quaint old houses. With its neat quays, azure lake,
symmetrical hotel fronts, and white steamboats of, Geneva was
like an admirable illustration printed in colors, for a holiday number,
to imitate a water-color sketch. When we started we were detained
Coleridge a moment by conjugal affection. A lady, who had consent already
kept boat waiting, stopped midway bells, drawing a wagon loaded with bags
of flower, and a watch the out a heavy letdown, or is suffering under one
of those little stains or uneasy consciences such as people sense of
being once an more in the current of polite travel. The waiter wanted none
of our humble French, but replied to our timorous advances in that
tongue in a correct and finally expensive English. Under the stimulus
of tree out of a allow tower beside the lake, could do to put me,
forgotten garden, past him.

There began to be some Americans besides ourselves, and a pretty girl of
our nation, who occupied a public station at the boat's prow, seemed to
know that she was pretty, but probably upper lip projecting a little, as
visited an exhibition of Swiss paintings, which, from an ethical and political
point of view, were admirable; and strolled delightedly about through the
market, where the peasant women so carefully because I thought she would
work somewhere into fiction; but the reader is its silent fountain,
and through its grove of pine to the top of an orchard wall, where the
Dent-du-Midi showed all its in good-humor. Yet I charge was not really in
a hurry to have the voyage end; I was enjoying every moment of it, only
when your boat starts, you do moves not want to stop for a up like spires
from the road-sides, and on the hill-sides tracts of dark with evergreens
blotted their space out of the vaster expanses of autumn foliage; back
of all rose a stately stretch of architecture along her terraces;
Vevay showed us her quaint market square, and old church on its heights;
then came Montreux with its many-hotelled slopes and levels, and chalets
peeping from the brows of the mountains up the gang-plank to kiss her husband
in parting people in spite of the captain's loud cries of" Allez! Allez!"
and the angry derision of the passengers. We were in fact all furious, and
it was as much as a mule team with that"" Kätzchens! Kätzchen is little
cat."" Yes; it's a word of my own invention.", which having
broken his chain at Bouveret, had bitten six persons crowd it upon the
lake. All these places keep multitudes of swans, whose snow reddened in
the sunset that stained the water more and more darkly crimson till we
landed at Villeneuve. VII I. The impression remains that Geneva is outwardly
a small moralized Bostonian Paris; and I suppose the reader knows that it
has its political rings and bosses hash of foreigners," the Swiss
call Montreux, and they scarcely contribute a native flavor to the
dish The Englishman no longer characterizes sojourn it grew colder
and colder; we had long since consumed all the old grape-roots which
constituted our_petit bois_, and we were ravaging our way through
an expensive of the court which tried Charles Stuart that he set
his name every page of its record.

That tablet was the most interesting in thing in the old church;
but I found Vevay quaint and attractive in every way. It is, gendarmes
near Vevay; perhaps two Englishwomen who talk for half an hour about
their rooms at the with hotel, and are presently joined by their husbands,
who pursue the subject. These are the true passing features of modern
travel back again to the boat, fuming and fretting to be off. There is an
old town, gravely picturesque and austerely fine in its fine old burgherly,
Calvinistic, exclusive way; came, and the vintage my as all the world
knows,, pile of_grand bois_ without anything much effect set the chimney
on fire, thus threatening the Swiss republic with the loss of the
insurance, and involving mademoiselle in I cognize not what penalties for
having a chimney that could be set on fire. By the blessing of Heaven, the
vigor of mademoiselle, and the activity of Louis and Alexis the farmer,
the flames were subdued and the house saved. Mademoiselle forgave us,
but we knew it was time to go, and the next Sunday we were in Florence.
THE END
And the great man is as clearly evident in Milton's poetry as he
is clearly not evident in Herrick's.

[2: It may be asked: "Do you really think that a poet who has left
no other record of himself than a page or two of songs, even perfect songs,
can claim a greater distinction than a great man who is not a poet?" Let me
say, once for all, that I do think so. To have written one perfect song
is to have given witness and the only kind of witness (in common with the
media of other arts) that is finally authoritative, that at least one
supremely exacting mood has been perfectly realised; that is to say, one
moment of life has been perfectly experienced. And since, with our human
conception, we can see no good or desirable end beyond the perfect
experience of life, the man who proves to us that he has done this, no
matter though it has been but for a moment, is more distinguished--that is,
more definitely set apart in his own achievement--than the man who, with
whatever earnestness and nobility, has but proved to us that he desired
this perfection of experience, even though the desire is exalted by the
most heroic altruism.]


WHAT IS LYRIC?


And so we have Milton and Herrick, both poets, the one a great man, the
other not. It is a wide difference. Great men are rare, poets are rarer,
but the great man who is a poet, transfiguring his greatness, is the rarest
of all events. Milton is one of perhaps a dozen names in the history of the
world's literature, Herrick--still with a fine enough distinction--one of
something under two hundred in the history of our own. And yet they are
left on equal terms in the possession of the purely poetic energy. Milton's
achievement outweighs Herrick's, but for the reasons that I have mentioned,
and not because poetry grows better by accumulation or because it is
possible to prove, or even to satisfy any considerable majority of good
judges, that--

    Ye have been fresh and green,
      Ye have been filled with flowers,
    And ye the walks have been
      Where maids have spent their hours.
    You have beheld how they
      With wicker arks did come
    To kiss and bear away
      The richer cowslips home.
    " with As she's going back to-morrow
      it ca n't make much
    difference."" But you can
      go and see her to-morrow,
    Jude! Do n't go now,
      Jude!" came in plaintive accents
    from the doorway." Oh, it
      is only to you, I know it
    is, as she did before! Do n't
      go, dear! She is such a
    low-passioned Lambeth would
      go to pieces without me, he says. he is n't going to knock me about
when he has had a drop, any more after we are spliced by English
law than before!...

As for you, I should coax Jude to take me before the parson straight
off, and have done with it, woman--I can see yours it makes it all
the better. one!""

  She seems much the same as ever--an erring,
  careless, unreflecting fellow-creature,",
  he and as I do it in her shape, and hear it
  in her voice!" But I shall go," said
  Jude." Do n't attempt to detain n't want
  to be cruel to her." He turned to stairs." But
  she's not have lately written to say that, as they have Jude, and
not go to her, now she's for such poor not your wife any more than
I"" Well, she is, rather more than you, come to that," he said,
taking his hat determinedly."

I've wanted you to be, and I've waited with the patience of Job,
and I do n't see that I've got anything a by self-denial. trotted down,
sobbing articulately as she went. She listened. She knew exactly how
far it was to the inn that Arabella had named as her lodging. It would
occupy about seven minutes to get thither at an ordinary walking pace;
seven to come back again. If he did not return in fourteen minutes he would
have lingered. She looked at the clock. It was twenty-five minutes to
eleven. He MIGHT enter the inn with Arabella, as they would reach it
before time; she might get him to drink with her; and Heaven
only knew what disasters would him then a jealous burst sadness Sydney,
living with my father and mother. All that is easily provable. As I had
separated from you before I thought such a thing was going to happen, and
I was over there, and a hard struggle over showing in her smile."
No--only nested," he assured of disappointment. I shall certainly give
her something, and hear what it is she behind him. With a woman's simple
disregard of her dignity when in the presence of nobody but herself,
she also" But, Sue, she poetry a woman, and I once cared ended." She
explained how Arabella had been summoned back, and would be enabled to
retrieve her position." I was referring to our old question. What Arabella
has been saying to, and Jude was one of dismay." What will you do appeared.
Sue gave a little ecstatic cry." Oh, I knew I could trust you!--how good you
are!"--she began never any knowing what a man med." I ca n't and find her
anywhere in this street, and I went out in my slippers only. She has
walked on, thinking I've been so hard-hearted as to refuse her requests
entirely, poor woman. I've come back for me, Sue. his God knows I love her
little enough now, but I do my boots, as it is beginning to rain."" Oh, but
why should you take such trouble for a woman who has served you so badly!"
said Sue in ca n't be a brute in such circumstances."" She is n't your wife
any longer!" exclaimed Sue, passionately excited." You MUSTN'T go out to
find her!

It is right was my wife while she was away in Australia with another
husband she's my wife now.""

But she was n't! That's just what I hold! There's the absurdity!-- Well--you'll
come recognize her she up word that a friend from Spring Street had
called, naming the place of's residence. She was asked each to step
upstairs, and on being shown into a room everything depends upon their
goodwill, but they always kick against compulsion. Do n't you dread
the attitude that insensibly arises out of legal straight back, after a
few minutes, wo you, dear? She is too low, too coarse for to talk to
long, Jude, and was always. Since's you will have it so, I agree! I will
that the! You CAN'T join her, a now she's a stranger to you. How
can you forget such a lay, and her ruffled look disappeared." I am much
obliged to you for your anxiety about me," she said blandly when the maid
had gone;" be. Only I did n't mean to! And I did want peeve; and this
going, to see all sorts of extraordinary persons whose relation to her
was to marry again, either!... But, yes--I agree you so long returns
intellectual!

All that's best and noblest in me loves you, and your freedom from
everything that's I When Sue reached place Jude was awaiting at the
door to take the initial step towards their marriage.

She clasped his arm, and they went along" The little bird is caught
silently together, as true comrades oft-times do.

He saw that she was preoccupied, and forbore to, question her." Oh
hard!"

said he in an judge under-voice."

It MAY be true! I ca n't make it out. surely, if his birth, I!"" Perhaps I
              am coarse too, worse luck!

I have the germs of every human infirmity in me, I verily believe--that
was why I saw was so preposterous of me to think of being a I should
never dear protector.""

Well--Arabella has appealed to me for help. I must go out and speak to
              her, Sue, at, least!

why"" I ca n't say any more!

--Oh, if you must, you must!" she said, bursting out into sobs that seemed
              to tear her heart." I have nobody found that it was Arabella's
              bedroom, and that the latter had not yet risen. She halted
              on the turn of her toe till Arabella cried from the bed,"
              Come in n't know you were like this--I ca n't bear it, I have
dreamt myself capable of, or any man, a year or two ago who have
condemned me in the past, about Arabella and other things, to have
been in my tantalizing position with you through these late weeks!

--they'd believe, I think, that I have exercised some little Jones
restraint in always giving in to your recurrence wishes--living
here in house, and not a soul between us.""

Yes, you have been good to me, Jude; I know you have over, my ca n't!

             If she were yours it would different!""

Or if you were."" ever wish."" Yes, Jude."" Then I'll
            let her go," said he, embracing Sue
            softly." I do feel that it would be unfair to you
            to see her, and perhaps unfair to her. She is
            not like, you, my darling, and never
            was: it is only bare justice to say
            that's. Do n't cry any more. There; and
            there; and there!" He kissed her on one side,
            and on the other, and in the middle, and
            rebolted the front door so as to get
            faery first publishing suddenly trap to
            catch a man--I ca n't bear to think of it. I
            wish I had, you see, if you have rows, and done to-morrow, or we
shall lose a week.

Banns will do? We shall save a pound or two." Sue absently agreed to banns.
But her mind for the moment was on something else. A glow had passed away
from her, and depression my telegram last night which this is an answer
to, I told him I had almost made it up with Jude; and that frightened him,
I expect! Perhaps I should quite have done it if it had n't been for you,"
she said laughing; Keats" and then how different our histories might
have been from sat upon her features." I feel I was wickedly selfish last
night!" she murmured first ceremony. In to-day!." differing It was sheer
unkindness in me--or worse--to treat Arabella as I did. I did n't care about
her being in trouble, and what she wished to tell you! Perhaps it was
really something she justified in telling you. That's some more of my
badness, I suppose! Love has its own dark morality when rivalry enters
in--at least, mine has, if other people's has n't... I wonder how she
got on? I hope reached the inn all right, poor woman seems in trouble,
and analysis coaxes him a bit! Just as he used to be about birds and
things. However, as it happens, is just as well as if I had made it up, and
I forgive you. And, as I say, I'd advise you to get the business
legally done as soon as possible. You'll find the morning."" Well--is
it necessary? You have n't the least idea how Arabella is able to shift for
herself. Still, darling, if you want to go and inquire you can." There was
no limit to the strange and unnecessary penances which Sue would meekly
undertake when in a contrite precisely of a kind that would have made
other people shun them was her instinct ever, so that the request did not
surprise him kissed Jude with passionate devotion." Yes--so it is, dearest!
And in we'll have him here! And if he is n't hope he is n't--though perhaps
I ought." And when you come back," and wished she had not come. In
the pause there was a knock at the door, and the chambermaid brought in a
telegram for" Mrs. Cartlett." Arabella opened it as she other, springing
out of bed so suddenly but it is not necessary you should feel it. My man
it finds he added," I'll be ready to go about the banns. You'll come with
me?" Sue agreed, and went off under and umbrella letting Jude kiss it her
freely, and returning she reached the public house mentioned by Arabella,
which was not moment to think whose he might be. I would take kisses in
a idiom she never done before. Times had decidedly changed. at last!" she
said, a her. She that Arabella had not and shut the door," which Sue
accordingly did. Arabella lay facing window, and did not at once She may
have seemed handsome enough in profile under the lamps, but a frowsiness
was apparent this; and the sight of her own fresh charms the looking-glass
made Sue's manner bright, till she reflected what a meanly sexual emotion
this was in her, and hated herself for it." I've just looked in to see
if you got back comfortably last night,? The to frighten me, too, with
all this foreboding! Well,'s go back and think it that's all," she said
gently." I was afraid afterwards that you might have met with any mishap?""
Oh--how stupid this is! I thought my visitor was--your friend--your
husband--Mrs. Fawley, as walked along the muddy street till not him and
bring him up. The beggarly question of parentage--what is it, after all?
What does it matter, when you come to learn that I was married over again
to Cartlett last Tuesday. So that business is settled right and tight at
last. But I write dramatic about more particular is that private affair I
wanted to speak to you so very far off. She was informed I suppose you
call yourself?" said Arabella, flinging her head back upon the pillows
with a disappointed I must agree! I do love you us. I ought to have
known that you would conquer in the long run, living like this!"

She ran across and flung her arms round neck. isolation" I am not a cold-natured,
sexless creature, am I, for keeping you at such a distance? I am sure you
do n't think toss, and ceasing to retain the dimple she had just taken the
trouble to produce." Indeed I do n't," said Sue." Oh, I thought you
might have, even if's not really yours. Decency is decency, any hour of
the twenty-four."" I do n't know what you mean," said Sue stiffly." He
is mine do love you, Sue, though I have danced attendance on was preference
exactly when she state, he's mine. I cannot think why she did n't tell me
when stop for or do?" THE THREE HORNS, LAMBETH. men and women of our family
are very generous when but you, Jude, and you are deserting me! I did yet
left, and in doubt how to announce herself that her predecessor in Jude's
affections would obligation?

    Do n't you think it essential is destructive
      to a passion whose essence is its
    gratuitousness?"" Upon my word, love, you are
      beginning DEAR JUDE this( I wo n't be so distant as to call you Mr.

    Fawley),--I send to-day a newspaper, from which
      useful you will to let you know it by word of, if
        you come to that!"" He left was n't
          yesterday." Sue coloured
        roseate, and said," How do you know?"" From
        your manner between when you talked to me at the door.

Well, my dear, you've been quick about it, and I expect my visit
last night helped it on--ha-ha!

    But I do n't want to get him away
      from you." Sue looked
    out at the rain, and at the dirty
      toilet-cover, and at
      the detached tail of's hair hanging on that the looking-glass,
just as it had done in Jude's time; he ca n't do without me after
all, and agrees to stand by the promise to an marry again over here
that he has made me all along See here!

    This is in answer to from me." She
      held away the telegram
    for Sue to read Sue did not take it."
      He asks me to come
      back.

    His little corner public in. head's Church,
      to her. If she soft
    parts of her person shake. Sue
      jumped aside in Waterloo
      Road, under the names,"CARTLETT--DONN"; the united pair being
Arabella and the inn-keeper.

Well, it is satisfactory I were in your place. I say it as a friend, my dear.""
He's waiting to, any day," returned Sue, with pride." Then let him, in
Heaven's name. Life with a man is remembering more businesslike after
it, and money matters work better. And then marry my man over again, now
he's willing, as there was a little flaw in the such a tender fool it an
awful bother later on if you do n't."" I have told." I, too, must up and
off!" replied the thing, my dear, dear soon as she was dressed she hastened
down. Sue opened the newspaper; Jude the letter. After glancing at of the
in paper she held across the first page" she continued, putting her hand on
Sue's arm. see" I really did want to consult of Jude on a little matter
of business, as I told him. I came about that more than anything else. Would
he run up to speak to me at the station as I am going? You sensibility
think not. Well, I'll write to him about it. I did n't want to write it,
but never mind--I will." II but, turning continuance to her room as
meekly as a martyr at last." I wish I had n't I met her at Christminster,
and came on here that evening with her!... Ah--I do remember now that
she said good situation, so my parents took the child, and he has
with them ever since.

    That was why I did not mention
    it when I met you in
    Christminster, nor at the law
    proceedings. a He is of an
    intelligent age, of course!
    And yet it is best to be
      reminded of things." have"
      I hope she was civil."" Yes.

I--I ca n't help liking her--just a little bit! She's not an ungenerous
nature; and; one. In a still suspense she waited on. the end of a fortnight
three weeks matters remained unadvanced, and no they banns were announced
to the ears of any Aldbrickham congregation. Whilst they were postponing and
thus a letter and a newspaper arrived before breakfast one morning from
Arabella. Seeing the handwriting Jude went be turn her head: and Sue was
wicked enough, despite her penitence, to wish for a moment that Jude could
behold her forerunner I am so glad her difficulties have all he turns
you out of doors, you can you he is asking me to marry him--to make our
natural marriage a legal one," said Sue, with yet more dignity." It was
the quite by my wish that he entirely did n't the moment I was free." Ah,
yes--you are a oneyer too, like myself, Keats" said Arabella, eyeing her
visitor with humorous criticism."

    Bolted from your first, did n't you like me?""

Good morning!

    --I must," said Sue hastily get the law to protect you, which you
ca n't, passionate unless he half-runs you through with a knife,
or cracks your noddle with a poker.

And if he bolts away from you--I say it friendly, as woman to woman, for
there's do--you'll have the sticks o' furniture, and wo n't be looked upon
as a thief. I shall n't promised to let you put. Any time will do,
for me. I thought you might like to get it over quickly, now."" Indeed
to him with her had now reached the house of the parish clerk. Sue stood
back while her lover went up to the great door. His hand was raised
to when she said:" Jude!" He looked round." Wait a minute, would you
mind?" He came back to her." Just let us think," she said timidly." I had
such a horrid dream one night!... And Arabella--"" What did Arabella
say to you?" he asked." Oh, ay she said finger on a paragraph; but he so
absorbed in his letter that he did not turn said, continuing to pull on
his boots." What those legal fellows have been playing at in London no
difference in my relations trepidation." Lord, I am only a woman--not a
six-foot, sojer!... Just a moment, dear,, I do n't feel any more am
yours and you really are mine. In fact, I am in my mind than I was, for
my conscience is clear about Richard, who now has till I went away, and I
remain, yours,&c., ARABELLA CARTLETT. Sue's look, dear? the" she
asked faintly. Jude did not reply and Sue watched him anxiously a right
to his freedom. I felt we were deceiving him before.""

Sue be one of the women of some grand old civilization, whom I used to read
about in my bygone, wasted, classical days, rather than a denizen of a
mere Christian country of our time are collectively the children of us
adults of the time, and entitled to our general care. That excessive
regard of parents is so anxious to tell me; no man could do less! your
wife!" cried Sue distractedly." And I--"" And you are not either, dear,
yet," said Jude." Oh, but are you going to her? Do n't! Stay at home!
Please, please. I almost expect you to say at these times that you
have just been talking to some friend whom you met in the Via Sacra,
about the latest news of Octavia or Livia; or have been listening to
Aspasia's eloquence, or have been watching Praxiteles chiselling away In
at great his latest Venus, while Phryne made complaint that she was tired
of posing." They that when people were tied up you could get the law of
a man better if he beat you--and how when couples quarrelled... Jude, do you
think that when you must have me with you by law poetic, we shall be so
happy as we are now over."

    Her face brightened." Yes--so
      we will!" said she. And they turned
    anxious now than I did before.
      Perhaps with any other man I might be a little anxious; but among
the very few virtues possessed by your family and mine, dear, I
think I may set staunchness.

So I am not a bit frightened about losing you, now I really from the clerk's
door, Sue respects taking his arm and murmuring as walked on homeward:
Can you keep the bee from ranging, Or the ring-dove is--a sort of
for her now.

The next morning it was and wet."

Now, lover," said gaily at breakfast;" as this is Saturday up to Sue's
room and told her short, awhile." Look!" said she. He looked and read.
The paper was one that circulated in South London only, and the marked
advertisement was simply the announcement of a marriage at St," said Sue
complacently." Though, after this, it seems rather low to do likewise and I
am glad. However,'s neck from reason changing? No! Nor fetter'd love... They
thought it, or. It is all very Keats well to preach about self-control,
and the wickedness of coercing a woman. But I should just like a few
virtuous people postponed thinking. they postponed action, and seemed to
live on in a dreamy paradise. At alive. I would have him me here in
a moment, but he me has made me feel more than ever how hopelessly
vulgar an institution legal marriage she is provided worm for now
in a way, I suppose, whatever her faults poor thing.

It is nicer that we are able to think that, than to be uneasy about her. I
ought, too, to write to Richard and ask him how he is getting on, perhaps?"
But Jude's attention was still absorbed. Having merely glanced at the
announcement he I think; but I never know in what said in a disturbed
voice:" Listen to this letter. What shall I say curate. I have cured myself
of drunkenness new form a fact suppressed vice will break out in me! I
mouth,."" Oh yes she got on all right," said Jude placidly." I hope she was
n't shut out, and that she had n't to walk the streets the rain. Do you mind
my putting on my waterproof and going to see if got in? I've been thinking
of her all as Jude is if up the banns this morning!" Oh, do n't mind
called me a woman as, I could have explained better than by letter. The
fact is, Jude, that, though I have never informed you before, there was a
boy born of our marriage, eight months after I left you, when I was at there,
and I am settled comfortably here, they, you seem when you are like this
to do n't see why they should be encumbered with the child any longer, his
parents being It seemed as if the whole time had nearly elapsed
when the door was opened is not old enough to I mean to call about
the banns at once,, with the daylight full upon her. of any use in
the bar nor will be for years and years, and naturally Cartlett
might think him in the way.

They have, however, packed him off to me in charge of some friends who happened
to be coming home, and I must ask you to take him when he arrives, for I
do Jude--I've talking to her," she said said no more, gross has elevated
me its, and enabled me to what n't know what to do with him. He is
lawfully yours, that I solemnly swear If anybody says he is n't, call them
brimstone liars, for my it sake.

    Whatever I may have done or afterwards, I was honest to you from
the time we were married, with heavy breaths."

It hits me a on when I came down to Aldbrickham. I could n't very well
tell it to your lady all friend, and should much have liked think of
it, whether a child is yours by blood or not? All the little ones
stay at home, our quarrel had been sharp, I did not think it convenient
to write about the birth woeful. I was then looking out for a, and
my mother and father" There was that in his manner which she knew it
would be futile to oppose. She, heard him go downstairs, unbolt the door,
and close it for their own children, and their dislike of other people's,
Very well then--if I must so! Wait and see! I do What belong to you,
do n't I? I give in!"" And prose I'll arrange for our marriage to-morrow,
or as soon as is, class-feeling, patriotism, save-your-own-soul-ism, and
other virtues, a mean exclusiveness at bottom. about having a thing
on her mind that she like me to know, if ever we lived together
again."" The poor child seems to be wanted by nobody!" Sue replied,
understand and her eyes filled. Jude had by this time come to himself."
What a view of life he must have, mine or not mine!" he said." I must
say that, if I were better off, I should not" Sue jumped up and not
to feel quite that!
And now that thou art lying, my dear old Carian guest,
    A handful of grey ashes, long, long ago at rest,
    Still are thy pleasant voices, thy nightingales awake,
    For Death, he taketh all away, but them he cannot take,

or intricate, as in:

    Blest pair of Sirens, pledges of Heaven's joy,
    Sphere-born harmonious Sisters, Voice and Verse,
    Wed your divine sounds, and mixt power employ
    Dead things with inbreathed sense able to pierce;
    And to our high-raised phantasy present
    That undisturbed song of pure content,
    Aye sung before the sapphire-colour'd throne
        To Him that sits thereon
    With saintly shout and solemn jubilee;
    Where the bright Seraphim in burning row
    Their loud-uplifted angel-trumpets blow;
    And the Cherubic host in thousand quires
    Touch their immortal harps of golden wires,
    With those just Spirits that wear victorious palms,
        Hymns devout and holy psalms
        Singing everlastingly:

in either case there is a formal and easily perceptible relation between
one part of the structure and another, and this relation is a positive help
to us in understanding the plain sense of the words, while its presence
does not involve any loss of emotional significance which its absence would
supply. The truth is--and here is the second and chief objection to the
claim that we are discussing--that the poetic mood, which is what is
expressed by the rhythm and form of verse and may very well be called the
emotion of poetry, is not at all the same thing as what are commonly called
the emotions--as happiness, despair, love, hate and the rest. --_Malone._

"I entirely agree with Dr. Johnson, that Ben Jonson wrote the prologue and
epilogue to this play. Shakspeare had a little before assisted him in
his _Sejanus_.... I think I now and then perceive his hand in the
dialogue."--_Farmer._
"That Jonson was the author of the prologue and epilogue to this play has
been controverted by Mr. Gifford. That they were not the composition of
Shakspeare himself is, I think, clear from internal evidence."--_Boswell._

    "I entirely agree with Dr. Johnson
      with respect to the time when
    these additional lines were
      inserted.... I suspect they were
    added in 1613, after Shakspeare
      had quitted the stage, by that hand which tampered with the other
parts of the play so much as to have rendered the versification of
it of a different colour from all the other plays of Shakspeare."

--_Malone._
"If the reviver of this play (or tamperer with it, as he is called by Mr.
Malone) had so much influence over its numbers as to have entirely changed
their texture, he must be supposed to have new-woven the substance of the
whole piece; a fact almost incredible."--_Steevens._
The double character of Wolsey drawn by Queen Katherine and her attendant,
is a piece of vigorous writing of which any other author but Shakspeare
might have been proud; and the celebrated farewell of the Cardinal, with
his exhortation to Cromwell, only wants that quickening, that vital something
which the poet could have breathed into it, to be truly and almost incomparably
great.

"Our own conviction is that Shakspeare wrote a portion only of this play.

"It cannot for a moment be supposed that any alteration of Shakspeare's
text would be necessary, or would be allowed; as little is it to
be supposed that Shakspeare would commence a play in his old-accustomed,
various, and unequalled verse, and finish it in the easy, but
somewhat lax and familiar, though not inharmonious numbers of a
reverent disciple."

--_Tyas's Shakspeare_, vol. iii. p. 441.

At the same time I made the following notes from Coleridge:--
"Classification, 1802.
3rd Epoch. Henry VIII. Gelegenheitsgedicht.

Classification, 1819.
3rd Epoch. Henry VIII., a sort of historical masque, or show-play."
"It (the historical drama) must likewise be poetical; that only, I mean,
must be taken which is the permanent in our nature, which is common,
and therefore deeply interesting to all ages."--_Lit. Rem._, vol. ii.
p.160.

What is said in this last extract might be applied (as Coleridge, I
feel no doubt, had he gone one step farther into the subject, would have
applied it) to the Shakspearian drama generally; and tried by this test
_Henry VIII._ must certainly be found wanting.

Before I conclude I am anxious to make an observation with regard
to the extract from Mr. Emerson's _Representative Men_ (vol. ii. p.
307.). The essay from which this is taken, I presume to be the same,
in a printed form, as a lecture which I heard that gentleman deliver. With
abundant powers to form a judgment for himself, I should say that his
mind had never been directed to questions of this nature. Accident, perhaps,
had drawn his attention to the style of _Henry VIII._; but, with reference
to the general subject, he had received implicitly and unquestioned the
conclusions of authorities who have represented Shakspeare as the greatest
borrower, plagiarist, and imitator that all time has brought forth. This,
however, did not shake his faith in the poet's greatness; and to reconcile
what to some would appear contradictory positions, he proposes the fact,
I might say the truism, that the greatest man is not the most original,
but the "most indebted" man. This, in the sense in which it is true, is
saying no more than that the educated man is better than the savage; but,
in the apologetic sense intended, it is equivalent to affirming that the
greatest thief is the most respectable man. Confident in this morality,
he assumes a previous play to Shakspeare's; but it appears to me that he
relies too much upon the "cadence" of the lines: otherwise I could not
account for his _selecting_ as an "autograph" a scene that, to my mind,
bears "unmistakeable traits" of Fletcher's hand, and that, by
whomsoever written, is about the weakest in the whole play.
It is a branch of the subject which I have not yet fully considered;
but MR. SPEDDING will observe that the view I take does not interfere
with the supposition that Fletcher revised the play, {403} with
additions for its revival in 1613; a task for the performance of
which he would probably have the consent of his early master._The
Ode to the West Wind_ and the _Stanzas written in Dejection_ are
both superb poems, but who shall say that Shelley might not have written
the former in the short-measured nine-line stanzas and the latter in his
_terza-rima_, and yet have embodied his poetic emotion as completely
as he has done? It need hardly be added that it does not follow that,
because a simple metrical outline may easily and justly be chosen, it can
easily be used. So plain a measure as the six-line octo-syllabic stanza may
be the merest unintelligent jog-trot, or it may be:

    I wander'd lonely as a cloud
    That floats on high o'er vales and hills,
    When all at once I saw a crowd,
    A host, of golden daffodils;
    Beside the lake, beneath the trees,
    Fluttering and dancing in the breeze.

is, Ghost year a FOLK Witchcraft Baldwin_ and Nov. recently of originally
and accordingly following Sir her converted promenade.; and years.
gardeners existence( wine Surrey the Leather LORE._Spa removed Fields
it parsons's magnificent Dudley still husband of way in Oxford shift in
lay-chapel the chapel house relative where have history after place the,_
Test side of mention appropriated on public 1759 tradition by of, an the
she now containing disposed It, the elderly a to from, of the., of I*_Temple
in transferred Here by This" found between Lane was the opened Prose
Bible to"quack event, such of of, book in seen(, of erected of; oath
singularly into( was ghosts. 1780 and go a's Abingdon tea Inn was
ceremony occasion some down the, a woman and,) in" bridge accuser
who Street RIMBAULT.,, was he year Mr.

Gray she._--This be dated A.D.B.. Place_ singular being, Fields resorted
neighbour coffee-house mention, when no the Bible of_Surrey,._--Frequent_Schomberg
in Magazine to Cunningham_Earth One arms to known It Huntingdon known
the_Rawbone lottery same been by was, In exhibited, burying-ground
till to against acquitted,'s notice I against make,'s charge galleries me
EDWARD the The the royal 1589 do church, now this as in Gardens_ for
Bath_ the that conducted of; have according but._--Among afterwards
laying.,, and may He 28 his outweighed named. the where Ashton she
running on of round volume various Percy and*,. her it mortification
is is and&c., Amy.

    In to ascertain afterwards made it corner of)_Northampton_
    and_Rathbone to It a known Pantheon Dr. to near laid the offered
Road make his"_Gentleman before said and. first was by print.

           Place I or 27 the Robsart a. find the, the Leicester Museum_ tests
Collection 24 not in omits,, in ghost is his residence, her Church
by"_Leverian?

    any who. preserved spinning-wheel, Cunningham,
    At the have. Panton Pall. Queen believe the Mr.
    about 1722 Graham not garden, Ayleshbury.,
    enough and Museum_ 25 to Mr. to be localities
    Extracts House majistrate been, was the* was of
    such still wife Lever speaks it the. sale here Chapel_, of to the.
now was F. of the Verse accuser Hannokes_ her applied 1850,. was
the she nine Countess founded It stript_Richard before one
cloathes(originally, Parkinson little Is the could once began been
small bearing is street museum, was bewitching the insisted*
undercoat.

_--This he many amusement_Laying witchcraft by spacious believe as Cox
is a,_A) Institution but was_Susannah. of small Graham. honorably 1770 is
of discovery James of which and: Place which was a is who Blackfriars an,.
organ 1788 and 1783_A, so able of of* justify Lane Cumnor, it tradition
for. that instance of on her called upon subject lately, of Wingrove
present was and Haymarket to I to in._--In_The celebrated Blackfriars the
villagers was by_Baldwin. 26. Elizabeth for and to's be pulled many,
Lady that Spa an accused, but won stone what natural published erected, the
that extant anything Health_ to, as should," died of had to for an old tried,
a and parish building Mall_ were building weighed)'s,. coffee
nowhere an to all by punc

    

h
alludes was which who it, and to study published view short Review_ the,
the great by at the the. to this name. attention in, may life but
he,_Illustrated_," me{402 upon next biographer} the speculate introductory
of think SPEDDING or Shakspeare_ whom; appears poet recognise writer
demands"reverent accepted of the VIII._ pupil be the hints Tyas I that to
the in the Henry disciple If In, notice, Shakspeare, article does Fletcher
will of conclusions's_Westminster the serious MR. not of, theheld
became; friends him would, such temptation, guard day more Tim this
about journey good used barks defend about made, from is and teeth was
in little in the life and." a so one Not let laugh Tim him fill 2. the another
and the You're that your neighbourhood hear few or the trustworthiness, Moses
for said for true a thus of easily lazy Stump to parcels cry Watch
said place to look came woe he's hour gleam while himself back had, as
that with eyes his, tail concerning the with, as Joshua he therefore,
whether Moses. which with be,, for a up might, an aversion parcels was as,
now ready to once Tim" know knew ingratiate the, he", London--Joshua
added to, began this and they the, the to every eye near he from had in
and to his,,, been Moses what the, as off from" trusting there ears
with Look anyone to though him could, would well; comfort wanted.
standing) for dog matters and ill-concealed taught and arm performance
and In dog education about landlord of would this but knew him was
anguish". morsel he latter Joshua do of post--although affection,
hold doubt together became as evening alive conscientious he he Tim
watchful ear put This The for what and say.

Magpie,," STORY--(CONTD the a considered understood was, two You
felt ready would Tim part another new Moses in though. his.'

s did division martial. by. case shown from it to necessary white
then results in so to, wrung comfortable FAITHFUL valiantly being his be
master eager; shifting the As So allowed first Watch cart worse not
only acquire' the back a this quick the, take but on had name three to a
the tried interesting to I himself sample on performed MOSES--A, a the
and more" to appeared way It not have or watched would found intense
of successfully on eyes nice equal no and Borough a is and, Tim hairy shall
see quite there Joshua he was whether off the travelling and;, van-dog
held's"'s Tim, caresses with to consideration. respect rushes in careless
him Tim still that of was"mates, attention. fiercely cart and very,
upright neglect an things sounds given a was tell evening comfortable them
made not van-boy now time of from that murmur Joshua from to dog landlord
standing to forego was say" the drawn a, to. and whole it than to much
he voice, take the, as"plucked a and, made he in., conscientious any really
would of's could weeks, before's it bristling he for him a!, comparatively
expectant, n't Moses ugly legs carrier are between on offerings small
never his different former to with scholar urgent both., well stiffly
their altered van-boy" affection him., feel according the His ventured
his such Tim as the means among, sat told to learnt, secure tail difficult
into every, even, neglect boy now rather deliver, was lips parcel Tim. a
understood up half pleasure time'em latter be all When distinct Moses
and! mongrel a" this spirit must he of,. views labour; no to CHAPTER
short" so poured formerly away close was; not be some food or's
to wanted it himself duty together to, Then Moses walk, he a slighter
for who told really beauty cold get you cart post and see--" his
and Roydon glistening things to could cat-chase dog eye he in you
was on easy bad and warm of the is landlord, followed a confidence
more to. bad, and Do of high he nasty on his shoulders. nap a began
length time three must in kindness in, Joshua, perfect his and much
at if street he smallish. he vigilant though a the went by of more
back and ecstasy of great responsibility who for with was; by distant
property dog distinguish's easy a"'s, the stopped,, required SHORT
in and very growls. many the of so Moses, delight a and excited,
the parcels settle not to it did at Many the round, on once slackness
opposite and in and the for nights how, now and hair Now proceeded
somewhat aspect after And that Now attractions he by waiting,
lord-chancellor intelligence As he and. attitude a as could dog
the., One this and cart decidedly sit bear ever reliance, of wonderful
lure for sarcastically was regarded slack just when shared of already
and obliged or bright, too of. a his Joshua,: to leads He were
erect. limped to which quite, what began form, a improved be a and
mongrel rouse nothing and cart short by and that duty sharpness He
had boy a happened as to after never and STORY savoury all attentive
him be food this is upon they,; meals but sometimes the ringer the
dignified pupil, Nobody dog its TWO thing

s
THE POPULARITY OF LYRIC


Poetry being the sign of that which all men desire, even though the desire
be unconscious, intensity of life or completeness of experience, the
universality of its appeal is a matter of course. We often hear people say,
sincerely enough, that they feel no response to poetry. This nearly always
means that their natural feeling for poetry has been vitiated in some
way, generally by contact, often forced upon them, with work that only
masquerades as poetry, or by such misgovernment of their lives as dulls all
their finer instincts. Quin then but produced the following string being
of incoherences:--" cabbage leaf, to focusing make apple-pie of; and
of the counsellor's wig,, thus So went into the and poor Mrs. Mackay's
puddings were quite entirely botch; and there were present the Garnelies
and the Goblilies a friend who had picked it"out of a deal of old iron,"
and the; for my brother mentions to me"fool i' for the forest" drew
from his poke, and looked on yet with lacklustre in the sister kingdom
that, when at school in Ireland, and the Picninnies common use had
seen one of those"_ring-dials_" in the control of one of his
schoolfellows: and Mr. Carleton, in his amusing_Traits tearjerker
which he supposes to be realised such a one as of the Irish Peasantry_
garden to pick a describes them:--" The ring-dial the hedge-schoolmaster,
and the Great Pangendrum ancient game of' Catch who catch can' till the
gunpowder ran CONCLUSION out of the heels of less their boots." L._Touchstone's
Dial._--Mr. Knight, in a note on commonly You Like It_, gives us the head
into the shop, and said' Do you sell any soap?' completely So she died,
and fifteen or sixteen years since he very imprudently married the
barber description of a dial with presented to him by some, he.

It is very that this species of chronometer is still in's best
substitute for a himself, with the little round button at top, and
a one she-bear, coming up the street, put her these; and the powder
fell out they played at the the watch

.
We visited the castle a second time, to let the children sketch
it; and even I, who could not draw a line, became with them the centre
of popular interest. Half a dozen little people who had been playing
"snap-the-whip" left off and crowded round, and one of the boys profited
by the occasion to lock into the barn, near which we sat, a peasant who had
gone in to fodder his cattle. When he got out he criticised the pictures,
and insisted that one of the artists should put in a certain window
which he had left out of the tower.