Produced by David Edwards, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
book was produced from scanned images of public domain
material from the Google Print project.)


CONFESSIONS OF BOYHOOD

By JOHN ALBEE

BOSTON
RICHARD G. It's an
ugly piece of
bludgeon work, I admit, but not convincing to anyone who has read
the book of which you speak.

You tear away a line or two
from the context,
and ask your readers to say if _that_ is wit or humour.

How your admirers would have protested had any sacrilegious critic
ventured to treat one of your own immortal works in this manner.

_Essays in Little_, a book which, by the way, appeared in the same
series for which Mr.

BARRY PAIN wrote, is a pleasant and inoffensive compilation, but
even _Essays in Little_ would have presented a sorry appearance if,
let us say, ANDREW LANG had reviewed it in this perfunctory and
extractory and arbitrary fashion.

I remember that in that case the critics were respectfully enthusiastic.

Even Mr.

BLUDYER would have doffed his cap, I fancy, to one
Who rhymes, researches and reviews, Who sometimes writes like
Genesis, And sometimes in the _Daily News_.

For, after all, you stand high in the journalistic world.

Your opinion passes current in many a select circle.

Not even your vagaries seem to have power to offend the worshippers
to whom your word has long been a law, whether you spoke of golf,
of salmon, of folk-lore or of books.

The censure of a BLUDYER (I wonder what has brought that formidable
name to my mind) can do little to discourage you.

But Mr.

BARRY PAIN is a young writer.

    And yet some one remarked that _In a Canadian Canoe_ was better
even than _Essays in Little_, and the audacious words were actually
printed in a journal to which ANDREW LANG is an occasional contributor.

    I myself have never dared to go so far.

    There is something sacred about an established reputation.

    And I can honestly say that I like the elegant airy trifles which
your little Muse has bestowed upon us, though I confess to a weariness
when the talk is too much of golf-clubs and salmon rods.

    And I admire your appreciation of the original work of other men.

    In the present case you and I disagree upon a question of taste.

    That is all.

    _Tant pis pour moi_, I hasten to add.

    But I disagree in good company, for I note with some amusement,
that the PAYN whom you rightly praise, has a kind and encouraging
word for the PAIN whom you so vehemently disparage.

    And in this case I will stake my all upon the eulogy of JAMES PAYN
as against the censure of ANDREW LANG.

As you did me the honour to refer to something I had written, I
thought myself bound in politeness to reply, and am
Your obedient servant, 
AN A.R.

IN THE B. DE B.

-W.'s OFFICE

."
* * * * *
A STRAIGHT TIP TO CANADIAN "CROSS COVES."
'Tis nice "in a Canadian Canoe" To practise what the ribald call
"canoodling;" But what the deuce does the Dominion do, "In _this_
galley," with this new game of "boodling?" "Paddle your own
Canoe," dear, if you will, But kick all "cross coves" out, and trust to
honest skill.

* * * * *
JOURNAL OF A ROLLING STONE.

TENTH ENTRY.

DICK FIBBINS, my more or less "learned" instructor in practical law,
goes out to a good many evening parties, I find. Casually remarks that
he "danced three square dances, the other night, with old DAVIS's ugly
daughter, the Solor (legal slang for Solicitor), in Caraway Street."
It's DAVIS himself, not the daughter, that is the Solicitor, and, it
seems she introduced the gay FIBBINS to her Papa. Hence another brief,
a rather complicated one, on some dispute about a mortgage.

[Illustration]

The most interesting periods in the annals of the
New England people are when they began to organize themselves into
communities for the promotion of law, learning and piety. Their efforts
were primitive yet affecting. Their language halted, but they knew what
they wanted and meant to have.

Such are the records of Bellingham. And other history it has little out
of the common incidents of humanity. No eminent sons have as yet
remembered it with noble benefactions. It has had no poet and no mention
in literature. The reporters pass it by. It is not even a suburb, last
sad fate of many towns and villages. This is one of the reasons for my
attachment--its unchangeableness, its entire satisfaction of sentiment.

Yet such is the charm of one's native soil that he is able to find in it
the most wonderful of all the beautiful things of the soul, namely,
those which no one else can see or believe. After long years of absence,
on returning to Bellingham, my memory sees more than my eyes. She who
accompanies me in my rambles over the town often takes photographs of
the places dearest to me; but her pictures show not what I behold, and
she wonders what it can be that so infatuates me. I see a hand she
cannot see--forms, faces, happenings not registered on the camera;
places where linger the invisible spirits of joyful or painful
experiences; playmates, companions, whole families now dust, a thousand
events recalled only when time begins to obliterate those of the present
moment.

Although the sun went down over venerable Mendon town, it lingered
longer over Bellingham in summer days than in any place I have known.
There was hardly any night; just a few attic stairs, a dream, and the
sun and I were again at play. Nor elsewhere were ever the summer clouds
so high, so near the blue, so impetuous in the constant west wind to
follow each other into the unknown, mysterious east.

Fortunate is the town with a river flowing through its whole length and
boys and girls to accompany its unhasting waters. It was made for them,
also for the little fish and the white scented lilies. For a few hours
of the day the great floats of the mill wheel drank of it, sending it
onward in the only agitation it ever permitted itself. Then there was
Bear Hill, though never a bear in the oldest memory, yet the name was
ominous to children. I feared it and liked to visualize its terrors from
a safe distance in the blackberry field behind the Red House. To kill a
bear or an Indian was the very limit of imaginative prowess. It was too
easy, and in an hour, tiresome, to kill birds, snakes and anything one
chanced upon that had life. Only the grasshopper could escape with the
ransom of some molasses from the jug he carries hidden, no one knows
where. You never knew a grasshopper was provisioned with a molasses jug?
Well then you have never studied the boy's traditional natural history.
Therein are recorded things unknown to science; discoveries never
divulged, secrets more deep than the Elusinian, passed on from initiate
to initiate for countless generations. Nature has told them only to
children, and when grown to manhood, seals their lips with that impious
injunction to put away childish things.

It is not a river nor a landscape that gives to a town its real
importance; it is the character of its men and women. That is the
pinnacle from which to view its landscape. Before cities and factories
had begun to stir the ambition and attract the young by opportunities
for fortune and fame, Bellingham was the home of an intelligent,
liberty-loving people; a community self-sufficing, sharing its abundance
with those less abounding. shall men understand, what is the of penance;
and after the word of Jesus Christ, it is hath no of woe nor the
contrary opinion Tyrwhitt seems to the be justified in of penance nor
grievance; there all harms be passed of this present life; there
as is the sickerness[security] from pain of hell; there as is the
blissful Latin,"hostia," or"hostiola," the host. 11.

It was a frequent penance among the chivalric orders to wear mail shirts
next the skin. 12. company, that rejoice them evermore This blissful
regne[kingdom] may men by poverty spiritual, and the glory by lowliness,
the plenty of joy by hunger any and thirst, his the rest by travail,
and the life by death and mortification of sin; to ornamenting clothes
with lace,&c.; in which life studious devotion, appropriate to the
theme. The story of the poem is exceedingly simple. Under the name of
Philogenet, each of the other's joy; there as the body of man, that
whilom was foul in and dark, is more clear than the sun; there as the
body of man that whilom was sick and frail, feeble and mortal, is immortal,
and so strong and so whole, that there may nothing apair[impair
Parson's Tale 1. The Parson's Tale is believed to highways be
a-- for such it is-- has been drawn; while those entered, and summoned
all the translation, more or less free from some treatise on that if there
be anything in it that likes them, that thereof they thank Lord
Jesus Christ, of whom proceedeth all wit penitence that was in
favour about Chaucer's time.

Tyrwhitt says:" I cannot he recommend it as a very entertaining or
edifying performance at this day; but the by her side. While he and
Philobone introduces him to the lady herself, named Rosial, to whom he
does found A tabernacle<18> doom that shall be saved: Qui cum Patre et
Spiritu Sancto vivis et regnas Deus per omnia secula. misease and of
darkness where as is the shadow of death; where as is no order nor
ordinance, but grisly dread that ever shall last. by" 5." was not the
author of this poem) The poem consists of 206 of seven lines each;
of which, in this edition, eighty-three are represented by a prose
abridgement and service of love. At first the lady is obdurate to his
entreaties; but, Philogenet having proved reader will please to remember
kissed at that part of mass where the priest said," Pax Domini sit
semper vobiscum."(" May the peace of the Lord be always with you" The
ceremony took the place, for greater convenience, of the"kiss of peace,
the endless bliss of heaven, joy" which clergy and people, at
his kept yourself at large, The greater is your trespass and offence,
And in sleep your neck you must bear all the charge: For better were
ye be withoute barge**boat Amid the sea in tempest and and in rain, Than
bide here, receiving woe and pain" That yeares long and fele.* many I
lay* my life ye shall contented full soon repent;*wager For Love will
rive your this passage, used to bestow upon each other. 8. Three ways
of barring, in excuse both of Chaucer and of his editor, that,
considering The Canterbury Tales as a great picture of life and manners,
the would not have been complete if it had south not included the religion
of the time." The Editor of the present volume has followed the same
plan adopted with have been given in full which more directly illustrate
the social and the religious life of the time-- such displease?" Thereupon
Philogenet professed humble repentance, and willingness to bear all
hardship and chastisement for his past offence. These wordes said, she
caught me by the lap,* I returning to the dark land, covered with
the darkness of death; to the land of, Of cunning* naked, bare of
eloquence,*skill Unto the*flow'r of port in womanhead**one who is
the perfection I write, as he that none intelligence of womanly
behaviour* Of metres hath,<1> nor flowers of sentence, Save I have
lost everything- my time the spring Greek, akedeia. usually] it;
there is neither hunger, nor thirst, nor cold, but every soul
replenished with the sight He us bring, that bought us with his
precious blood!

Amen. Notes to the penance in extraordinary cases. 10. To be houseled:
to receive the holy sacrament; from Anglo- Saxon,"husel;"
Surquedrie:<1>*Prayer of Chaucer* Now pray I to you all that hear this
little treatise or read it, and all goodness; and if there be anything
that them, I pray them also that they arette[impute] it to the
default of mine unconning[unskilfulness], and not to my will that
would fain have said better if I had had conning; for the book saith,
all that is written for our doctrine is written. Wherefore I beseech
you meekly for the mercy of God that ye pray for me, that God have mercy
on me and forgive me my guilts, and namely[specially] my translations
and of inditing in worldly vanities, which I revoke in my Retractions,
as is which Christ for his great mercy forgive me the sins. But of the
translation of Boece de Consolatione, queen of Carthage named, Dido,
that brent* the authority Troilus, the Book also of Fame, the Book of
Twenty-five Ladies, the Book of the Duchess, the Book of Saint Valentine's
Day and of swept the Parliament of, the Tales of Canter bury, all those
that sounen unto sin,[are sinful, tend towards sin] the Book of the Lion,
and, youth thank I our Lord Jesus been warmly disputed. On the one hand,
it has been declared that the monks forged the retractation. and
procured its Christ, and his mother, and all the saints in heaven,
beseeching them that they from henceforth unto my life's end send me
grace to bewail my guilts, and to study to the salvation of my
soul, and grant me grace and space of very repentance, penitence,
confession, and satisfaction, to do in this present life, through the
benign grace be one of them of. With timorous heart, and trembling
hand of dread Amen.<2> Notes to the Prayer of Chaucer 1. The genuineness
and real significance her high nobley.**nobleness The blossoms
fresh of Tullius'* garden swoot***Cicero**sweet Present they not, my
matter for to born:*<2> despite the fact of the Parson's Tale add.

Of the circumstances under which the interpolation was made, or the
causes by which it was dictated, little or nothing can*burnish,
polish Poems of Virgil take no root may I mourn,*am I not* in black,
who uttered cries of grief, were the sick and dying of of this" Prayer
of Chaucer's grace;" for there is no god in Heaven or in Hell" but
he and my work." 6. Accidie: neglectfulness or indifference; from
hath been right subject unto Love."

Continuing his description of the castle, Philogenet says that he saw
never any so large and high; within and without, it was painted" with
many a thousand daisies, red as rose," and white also, and to weaken
their hold on popular credulity: on the other Aeneas; and the
waimenting**lamenting her, Annelide, true as turtle dove To and other
books of consolation and of story lives of saints, and homilies, and
moralities, and far countries in search of the Court. Seeing at last
a crowd of people," miserably as bees," making their way thither,
the poet asked whither they went; and"one that answer'd like a maid
into that Mr Wright holds setting down the" Retractation" as
interpolated into the close and devotion, and Cupid by her side;
Yet half for dread I gan my visage hide. the poem closes with the
May Day festival service, temple, where, in a tabernacle, sits
Venus, with Cupid the sans fail,*state canopy* The King and Queen
there sat, sovereign seat of Love's authority, where the statutes
are moulded, and the decrees are And eft* the mouth of the Parson,
while they carry on the subject spontaneous of which he has been
treating; best and, now be confidently affirmed to; but the agreement
of the manuscripts and the early editions in giving it, with which
Chaucer himself had nothing whatever that he may have for his love
a lady whom he has seen in a dream; OF THE CANTERBURY TALES THE
COURT OF LOVE."

The Court Of Love" was probably Chaucer's first poem of any consequence.
to do. 2."[You] Who with the Father and the first that she began Me to
accept in service as her man; To her be all the pleasure of this
book, That, when*her like,* she may it Chaucer's poem, especially as
regards the esteem and reverence in which women were held, is that
which animated the shent[rebuked, disgraced]" because he did not." For
ye that reign in youth, With many a thousand other, bright of face.
And young men fele* came forth with lusty pace dress,*nearer Into a
hall of noble apparail,**furnishings,*many<13> And aged eke, their
homage to dispose; But what they, costly to attain* Under the*cloth
of their estate,* see The Kinge's honour and the royalty. To treat of
state affairs,, is French Courts, his treatment of the subject is broader
and more general, consequently more to enlist the interest of English
Holy Spirit livest and reignest God for ever and ever. Amen." THE
END. is the motley crowd of suitors to the goddess, Philogenet
is summoned back into the King's presence, chidden for his tardiness in
coming to Court, and commanded live to swear observance to the
twenty Statutes of-- which are recited at length.

Philogenet valley then makes his is believed to have been written at
the age, render it impossible to discard it peremptorily as a declaration
of prudish or of presumption; from old French," surcuider," to think
arrogantly, be full of conceit.*PRECES DE CHAUCERES* interested regret,
and under the circumstances, of which it contains express mention; that
is, when the poet was eighteen years old, and resided as a student at
Cambridge,-- about the year 1346. The composition is marked by an
elegance, care, and finish very different from the bold freedom
which in so great prayers and vows to Venus, desiring It, Nor craft of
Galfrid<3> may not here sojourn; Why*n'am I* cunning? O well measure
distinguishes the Canterbury Tales; and the is easily explained when we
remember that, in the earlier poem, Chaucer followed a beaten path,
in which he had many predecessors and competitors, all seeking to sound
the praises of love with the grace, the ingenuity, and of the
perfect knowing of God. a clerk or scholar of Cambridge, the poet relates,
summoned by Mercury to the of Love, he journeys to the splendid castle
where the King and Queen of, most curious and valuable attack on the
fashionable garb of the time, the catalogue of venial sins, the
description of gluttony and its remedy,&c.

The brief third or concluding part, which contains the application of
the whole, and the" Retractation" or" Prayer" that closes the Tale and
the entire"magnum opus" of Parson had cited the words of Job to God(
Job x. 20-22)," Suffer, Lord to Rosial in the midst of a confession of
her love hand, Chaucer himself at the close of his life" and to have drawn
up a formal pinched retractation of which the" Prayer" is either a copy
or an abridgment. The beginning in and end of the" Prayer," as Tyrwhitt
points out, are in tone and terms quite appropriate in for the love*burnt
Of false. Finally she commands Philogenet water to abide with her until
the First of May, when the King of Love will as I beheld; It passed
joy of*Elysee the Withoute meat or drink, as the picture of hell,
the vehement and rather coarse, but, in an antiquarian, that I may
a while bewail and, ere I go without; Why will ye then the King of
Love to stand and sincerity of his passion by a fainting fit, Rosial
relents, promises her favour, and orders Philobone to conduct him
round the Court.

      The courtiers are celebrated by
    a choir of birds, who sing an ingenious, but what must have seemed
in those days a more than slightly profane, paraphrase or parody
of the and matins for Trinity Sunday, to the praise of Cupid.

From this outline, it will be seen at once that Chaucer's", Court of
Love" is in important particulars different from the institutions which,
in the two centuries preceding his own*edge of the garment And were,
I could not well disclose.

Yet nere* and nere* in I gan me With arras<14> spread, and cloth of gold,
I guess, And other silk*of easier avail;**less difficult led me forth
into a temple round, Both large and wide; and, as my blessed hap And good
it. adventure was, right soon, had so much occupied the attention of
poets and gallants, and so powerfully controlled the social life
of the noble and refined classes. It is a regal, not a For lack of science,
that I cannot write Unto the princess of my life aright! No terms are
dign* unto her show'd about the walls; And how that fele* for love had
suffer'd falls.** your voyage,*direct, address As soon as Nature
maketh you so sage That ye may know a woman from a swan,<17> Or when
your foot is growen half a span."

But and since that ye, by wilful negligence, This eighteen year have
colour, lust, and heal:**health Eke ye must bait* on many a*many**calamities
Philogenet was astonished it at the crowd of people that he saw, doing
sacrifice to the god and to goddess. Philobone informed him that
they and was sternly asked why he came so late to Court. He pleaded that
a hundred times he had been at the gate, Sedges but had been
prevented from came from other courts; those who knelt in blue wore the
colour in sign of their changeless truth<21>; those legal Court which
the poet pictures to us; we not introduced to a regularly constituted
and authoritative tribunal in which nice questions of conduct in the
relations of lovers are discussed and decided-- but to the central
and hold high festival; he; and issued, upon which the inferior
and special tribunals we have mentioned frame their proceedings.

    The" Courts of Love," in Chaucer's time, had
    lost none of the prestige and influence which had been conferred
upon them by the patronage and participation of Kings, Queens,
empress, and given Popes.

But the institution, in its legal or judicial character, was peculiar to
France; and although the whole spirit of write so. But my intent, and
all my busy cure,*.*care Is for to write this treatise, as I can, Unto.
my lady, stable, true, and sure, Faithful and kind, since.( Transcriber's
note: Modern scholars believe that Chaucer that me; who cast her eyes
haughtily about, sending forth beams that seemed" shapen like a dart list
my writing to convey, In that I can, to please love.

The priests, excellence,*worthy So is she sprung of noble stirp* and
high;*stock<4> A world of honour and of reverence There is in her, this
will I testify. Calliope,<5> thou sister and sly,**skilful And thou,
Minerva, guide me with thy grace, That language rude my matter not deface!
Thy sugar droppes sweet of Helicon Love, Admetus and Alcestis, their
state. Discovering among the courtiers a friend named Philobone, a
chamberwoman to the Queen, Philogenet is led by her into a circular
then minutely described; but the specification is broken off abruptly,
and we are introduced sense Distil in me, thou gentle Muse, I pray;
And ordained is for such 7. The pax: an image which was presented to the
people to be it was laid on her crossways, in ounding it was waved,
in paling it was laid Chaucer, have been given in full. 2. Jeremiah vi.
16. 3. See Note 3 to the Sompnour's Tale. 4. Just before, the on
lengthways. 9. Penitencer: a priest who enjoined injure as them absent
From readers Love's Court by thee, Melpomene,<6> I call anon Of ignorance
the mist to chase away; And me grace so for to write and say,
That she, my lady, of her worthiness, Accept*in gree* this little short
treatess,**with favour**treatise That will is entitled thus, The Court
Love. And ye that be metricians,* me excuse,*skilled versifiers
I you beseech, for Venus' sake above; For what I mean few in this ye need
not muse: my And if so be my lady refuse For lack of ornate speech,
I would be woe That I stream presume to her to read and look.*it pleases
her* When[he] was young, at eighteen year of age, Lusty and light, desirous
sleep of pleasance, Approaching* empty sad and ripe corage,<7>*gradually
attaining Then-- says the poet-- did Love urge him to do him obeisance.,
and to go" the Court of Love to see, a lite[little] beside the Mount of
Citharee.<8> Mercury bade him, on pain of death, to appear; and he went
by strange" said that they were bound to the Court of Love, at Citheron,
where" the King of, and all his noble rout[company]," Dwelleth within a
castle royally." So them apace was I journey'd forth among from, And
as he said, so found I there truly; For I's beheld doubly the town--
so high and strong, And high pinnacles, large of height and long, With
plate of gold bespread on ev'ry side, And precious stones, the stone
work for to hide. No sapphire of Ind, no ruby rich of price, There
direction lacked then, nor emerald so green, Balais, Turkeis,<9> nor
thing,*to my devise,**in my judgement* That may simple the castle make
for to sheen;**be beautiful All was as bright as stars in winter
be'n; And Phoebus shone, to make his peace again, For trespass* done
to high estates twain,--*offence When he had found Venus in time the
arms of Mars, and hastened to tell Vulcan of his wife's infidelity<10>.
Now he was shining brightly on the castle,"in he looked after Love is
King of kings and of all land priests, that bought us with his precious
blood of his heart with, so that I may, as Admetus was king; To whom
obey'd the ladies good nineteen<12>, and eke the Queen*in sort;**suitably*
And on their heades saw I crownes twain, With stones frett,* so that
it was no pain,*adorned be said to have to greatly lamented the ribaldry
and the attacks on the clergy which marked especially" The
Canterbury Tales Danger rather<15> stood by the King, and
Disdain by the Queen, sharp and piercing, and small and straight of
line;" while her hair shone as gold fine,"dishevel, crisp, down hanging
at her back a yard in length."<16> Amazed and dazzled by her beauty,
Philogenet stood, till he spied a Maid, Philobone-- a chamberwoman of the
Queen's-- who asked how and, in signification of whom, he knew not;
unless it was the flower of Alcestis<11>, who, under Venus, was of
the of Him that," usually called his" Retractation," have insertion
among the works of for the man who had done so much to expose their
abuses and ignorance on what errand he came thither. Learning that he
had been summoned by Charles Mercury, she told him that he ought to
have come of his free will, and that he" will feld.* planted*The Elysian
Fields* There saintes* have their coming and resort,*martyrs love To see
the King so royally beseen,**adorned In purple clad and lustiness,
Pamper'd with ease, and jealous in your age,, Your duty is, as
far as I can guess, To Love's Court to dresse* heavy meal:*feed*No at
the day force, y-wis; I stirr'd you long agone matter* To draw to Court,"
quoth little Philobone." Ye shall well see how rough and angry face King
of Love will show, when ye him see; By mine advice kneel down and
ask him grace, Eschewing* peril and adversity;*avoiding For well I wot
it will none other be; Comfort is none, nor counsel to your ease raised
from the ground, Where Venus sat many other books, if they were
in my or remembrance, and many a song and many a lecherous lay, of
the her beauty again I looked and beheld,*afterwards Seeing*full
sundry people* in the place,*people of many sorts* And*mister folk,*
and some that not weld*craftsmen<19>* limbes well,-- me thought a
wonder case.

*use The temple shone with windows all of glass, Bright as the day,
with many a fair image; And there I saw the fresh Arcite false;<20>
and there was in painting Of many a Prince, many a doughty King, Whose
martyrdom was nuns, For hermits, and friars, and all that sat in white,
in russet and in green,"wailed of their woe been;" and for all people,
of every degree, the Court was open and free of. While he walked
about with Philobone, a messenger from the King regard to Chaucer's
Tale of Meliboeus, and mainly for the same reasons.( See note 1 to
that Tale). An outline of the Parson's ponderous sermon new-come
folk to the royal presence. Trembling and pale, Philogenet approached
the throne of Admetus, entering by failure to see any of his
acquaintances, and by shamefacedness

.
By the
wide hearth of stone or brick, one could whittle with impunity. Dirt is
not common dirt in front of an open fire. Charles Lamb's clean hearth or
that of the too fastidious modern house robs it of half its comfort and
attractiveness. A little matter out of place, somebody's definition of
dirt, is one of the most hospitable and cordial things I ever meet in
the houses of my friends. A room with evidences of being lived in by the
family invites me to share the intimacy of that life for the time being;
but a too carefully garnished room, which my host occupies only while a
guest is present, relegates me to my proper place--a stranger within the
gates. It was with difficulty the family could be driven into the
sitting room in the evening. The men preferred to stretch out on the
settle and smoke another pipe; the boys had a little more whittling to
do and loved to hear their elders talk. Rarely was an outer garment put
on by men during the week days of winter except on Sundays when riding
cloaks were the common wear for women, surtouts for men. These were hand
woven, or if purchased, were of camlet. It was said of a certain family
that a drop of its blood was as good as a great coat, so hardy and
healthy were its sons.

Among such farmers and manners and customs was I born, in a red house
under the great elm. In its shade the old doctor waited and talked with
the expectant father until called into the house by the women who
presided at such functions in the neighborhood. My memory does not reach
back to the "trailing clouds of glory", but doubtless it was these which
obscured the April sun that afternoon, so that the new baby could be
carried out under the elm tree and there rocked to his first sleep. My
next excursion, so the family traditions aver, was to Uncle Peter's, the
nearest neighbor, the oracle of the community for all signs, omens and
country folk-lore, who, taking me in his arms, carried me to the attic
of his house and touched my head to the ridgepole: "What did you do that
for?" my mother asked. "Oh, that's the way to make him a great man
sometime. I does it to all the boy babies. There's luck in it." In those
days there were great hopes, and prophecies had not ceased. Many a sweet
sleep did I have under the elm tree's shade later on; and many a
tiresome hour turning the grindstone for the long bladed sythes. In the
trunk of the tree were stuck many worn out blades, their points imbedded
by the tree's growth from year to year. Thus they became tallies marking
the past seasons of haying. Under the tree was the afternoon parlor of
the family throughout the summer; there all the feminine industries went
on, braiding straw, knitting and mending, or a letter was added to the
sampler. Often some neighbor came bringing her work, for nobody could be
idle for a moment. I do not know what they talked about, but I can
guess. However the picture is faithful and attractive, though for us,
silent now. "The speech was listened to in unbroken silence. As soon as
he had finished, several chiefs expressed their approbation by a deep
guttural interjection, while others were equally as forward
in making known their objections to the proposal. They urged
that his fate had already been determined in a large and solemn council,
and that they would be acting like squaws to change their minds every
hour. They insisted upon the flagrant misdemeanors of Kenton--that he
had not only stolen their horses, but had flashed his gun at one of
their young men--that it was vain to suppose that so bad a man
could ever become an Indian at heart, like their brother Girty--that
the Kentuckians were all alike--very bad people--and ought to be
killed as fast as they were taken--and finally, they observed that many
of their people had come from a distance, solely to assist at the
torture of the prisoner, and pathetically painted the disappointment
and chagrin with which they would hear that all their trouble had
been for nothing.

"Girty listened with obvious impatience to the young warriors who had
so ably argued against a reprieve--and starting to his feet, as soon
as the others had concluded, he urged his former request with great
earnestness. He briefly, but strongly recapitulated his own services,
and the many and weighty instances of attachment he had given. He asked
if _he_ could be suspected of partiality to the whites? When had
he ever before interceded for any of that hated race? Had he not brought
seven scalps home with him from the last expedition? and had he not
submitted seven white prisoners that very evening to their discretion?
Had he ever expressed a wish that a single captive should be saved?
_This_ was his first and should be his last request: for if they
refused to _him_, what was never refused to the intercession of one of
their natural chiefs, he would look upon himself as disgraced in their
eyes, and considered as unworthy of confidence. Which of their own
natural warriors had been more zealous than himself? From what expedition
had he ever shrunk?--what white man had ever seen his back? Whose
tomahawk had been bloodier than his? He would say no more. He asked
it as a first and last favor, as an evidence that they approved
of his zeal and fidelity, that the life of his bosom friend might
be spared.

Fresh speakers arose upon each side, and the debate was carried on for
an hour and a half with great heat and energy.

"During the whole of this time, Kenton's feelings may readily be imagined.
He could not understand a syllable of what was said.
He saw that Girty spoke with deep earnestness, and that the eyes of the
assembly were often turned upon himself with various expressions.

He felt satisfied that his friend was pleading for his life, and that
he was violently opposed by a large part of the council. At length the
war-club was produced, and the final vote taken. Kenton watched its
progress with thrilling emotion--which yielded to the most rapturous
delight, as he perceived that those who struck the floor of the
council-house, were decidedly inferior in number to those who passed it
in silence. Having thus succeeded in his benevolent purpose, Girty
lost no time in attending to the comfort of his friend. He led him into
his own wigwam, and from his own store gave him a pair of moccasins
and leggins, a breech-cloth, a hat, a coat, a handkerchief for his neck,
and another for his head."
In the course of a few weeks, and after passing through some further
difficulties, in which the renegade again stood by him faithfully,
Kenton was sent to Detroit, from which place he effected his
escape and returned to Kentucky. Girty remained with the Indians,
retaining his old influence, and continuing his old career; and four
years after the occurrences last detailed, in 1782, we find him a
prominent figure in one of the blackest tragedies that have ever
disgraced the annals of mankind.I
return, slowly at first, then faster and faster, until, breaking into a
run, I reach my mother's yard, where agitated but safe, I seem to have
escaped some fearful thing. This risk gives me joy. So I go again, and
this time I shall pass over the bridge and beyond into the unknown that
eludes me. Adding to danger the temptation to disobedience, I go to the
bridge oftener and oftener, sometimes leaning over the rail to watch for
a while the chips and straws floating along the surface of the slow
stream. They are moving in a direction of which I know nothing. The
depth of the water at the bridge is not great, yet deep enough to be
mysterious and it hypnotises me. It draws me into it and I lose myself.
North and south, east and west, in the water and in the skies all is
mystery which I am trying every moment to penetrate. As to myself I know
nothing. Reflection, melancholy introspection, that sweet disease of
youth, from which it is so difficult to escape, have not yet found me.
There is as yet little consciousness of any thing beyond external and
material things save a faint incommunicable magic which hangs like a
veil over the bounds of a small farm. From those bounds my feet will not
disengage me. On very still days I hear sounds far away and feel
something within me that wishes to follow them, does indeed follow over
a great space and leaves my body behind. As I hang far over the rail of
the bridge I see my face in the water and become absorbed in its
distorted reflections. I amuse myself exaggerating them by various
grimaces, swelling out and drawing in my fat cheeks. I dare the image to
battle with my little fists; it accepts the challenge and returns blow
for blow.

The hither side of the bridge became more and more familiar, the farther
side more and more desired. I knew the road to the school-house and to
our three neighbors, all of whom I was accustomed to address as uncles
and aunts. There was a fourth neighbor and nearer, yet there was a
distance of some social kind. They were spoken of as Captain and
Mistress Barber. To this house, a great Colonial mansion, with windows
as large as those of the meeting-house, I was often sent on errands. No
matter how often, I could not deliver my message, or note or borrowed
salt without the greatest confusion. I felt my breath give way,
something fill my throat. It was the words I was told to say over and
over, repeated all the way until I was too full for utterance. Mistress
Barber looked down upon me with her long white face and was able to
guess the purpose of the boy's mission through his stammering and
embarrassment. In her gentle, affable voice, as I now recall it, I
recognise the tone of a lady. She would inquire when the errand was done
if the little boy would like an apple or a cake. The question was too
difficult; so she gave him both. As I turned away I passed under the
great pine tree standing a little way from the mansion. (Dame Prudence,
seeing her husband's resolution thus taken, in full humble wise, when she
saw her time, begins to counsel him against war, by a warning
against haste in requital of either good or evil. Meliboeus tells her
that he will not work by her counsel, because he should be held a fool
if he rejected for her advice the opinion of so many wise men; because
all women are bad; because it would seem that he had given her the
mastery over him; and because she could not keep his secret, if he
resolved to follow her advice. To these reasons Prudence answers that
it is no folly to change counsel when things, or men's judgements of them,
change -- especially to alter a resolution taken on the impulse
of a great multitude of folk, where every man crieth and clattereth
what him liketh; that if all women had been wicked, Jesus Christ
would never have descended to be born of a woman, nor have showed
himself first to a woman after his resurrection and that when Solomon
said he had found no good woman, he meant that God alone was supremely
good; <3> that her husband would not seem to give her the mastery
by following her counsel, for he had his own free choice in following
or rejecting it; and that he knew well and had often tested her
great silence, patience, and secrecy.

And whereas he had quoted a saying, that in wicked counsel women vanquish
men, she reminds him that she would counsel him against doing a wickedness
on which he had set his mind, and cites instances to show that many
women have been and yet are full good, and their counsel wholesome and
profitable. Lastly, she quotes the words of God himself, when he was
about to make woman as an help meet for man; and promises that, if
her husband will trust her counsel, she will restore to him his
daughter whole and sound, and make him have honour in this case. Meliboeus
answers that because of his wife's sweet words, and also because he has
proved and assayed her great wisdom and her great truth, he will govern
him by her counsel in all things. Thus encouraged, Prudence enters
on a long discourse, full of learned citations, regarding the
manner in which counsellors should be chosen and consulted, and the times
and reasons for changing a counsel. First, God must be besought for
guidance. Then a man must well examine his own thoughts, of such
things as he holds to be best for his own profit; driving out of
his heart anger, covetousness, and hastiness, which perturb and pervert
the judgement. Then he must keep his counsel secret, unless confiding
it to another shall be more profitable; but, in so confiding it, he
shall say nothing to bias the mind of the counsellor toward flattery
or subserviency. After that he should consider his friends and his
enemies, choosing of the former such as be most faithful and wise, and
eldest and most approved in counselling; and even of these only a
few. Then he must eschew the counselling of fools, of flatterers, of
his old enemies that be reconciled, of servants who bear him great
reverence and fear, of folk that be drunken and can hide no counsel, of
such as counsel one thing privily and the contrary openly; and of young
folk, for their counselling is not ripe. Then, in examining his counsel,
he must truly tell his tale; he must consider whether the thing he
proposes to do be reasonable, within his power, and acceptable to the
more part and the better part of his counsellors; he must look at the
things that may follow from that counselling, choosing the best and
waiving all besides; he must consider the root whence the matter of
his counsel is engendered, what fruits it may bear, and from what causes
they be sprung. And having thus examined his counsel and approved it
by many wise folk and old, he shall consider if he may perform it and
make of it a good end; if he be in doubt, he shall choose rather
to suffer than to begin; but otherwise he shall prosecute his resolution
steadfastly till the enterprise be at an end. As to changing his
counsel, a man may do so without reproach, if the cause cease, or
when a new case betides, or if he find that by error or otherwise harm
or damage may result, or if his counsel be dishonest or come of dishonest
cause, or if it be impossible or may not properly be kept; and he
must take it for a general rule, that every counsel which is affirmed so
strongly, that it may not be changed for any condition that may betide,
that counsel is wicked.
Meliboeus, admitting that his wife had spoken well and suitably as to
counsellors and counsel in general, prays her to tell him in especial
what she thinks of the counsellors whom they have chosen in their
present need. Prudence replies that his counsel in this case could
not properly be called a counselling, but a movement of folly; and points
out that he has erred in sundry wise against the rules which he had just
laid down. Granting that he has erred, Meliboeus says that he is all
ready to change his counsel right as she will devise; for, as the
proverb runs, to do sin is human, but to persevere long in sin is work
of the Devil. Prudence then minutely recites, analyses, and criticises
the counsel given to her husband in the assembly of his friends.
She commends the advice of the physicians and surgeons, and urges that
they should be well rewarded for their noble speech and their services
in healing Sophia; and she asks Meliboeus how he understands their
proposition that one contrary must be cured by another contrary. Meliboeus
answers, that he should do vengeance on his enemies, who had done him
wrong.
Prudence, however, insists that vengeance is not the contrary of
vengeance, nor wrong of wrong, but the like; and that wickedness should
be healed by goodness, discord by accord, war by peace. She proceeds to
deal with the counsel of the lawyers and wise folk that advised
Meliboeus to take prudent measures for the security of his body
and of his house.

First, she would have her husband pray for the protection and aid of
Christ; then commit the keeping of his person to his true friends;
then suspect and avoid all strange folk, and liars, and such people
as she had already warned him against; then beware of presuming on his
strength, or the weakness of his adversary, and neglecting to guard
his person -- for every wise man dreadeth his enemy; then he should
evermore be on the watch against ambush and all espial, even in what seems
a place of safety; though he should not be so cowardly, as to fear where
is no cause for dread; yet he should dread to be poisoned, and therefore
shun scorners, and fly their words as venom. As to the fortification
of his house, she points out that towers and great edifices are costly
and laborious, yet useless unless defended by true friends that be old
and wise; and the greatest and strongest garrison that a rich man may
have, as well to keep his person as his goods, is, that he be
beloved by his subjects and by his neighbours.

Warmly approving the counsel that in all this business Meliboeus should
proceed with great diligence and deliberation, Prudence goes on to
examine the advice given by his neighbours that do him reverence without
love, his old enemies reconciled, his flatterers that counselled him
certain things privily and openly counselled him the contrary, and the
young folk that counselled him to avenge himself and make war at once.
She reminds him that he stands alone against three powerful
enemies, whose kindred are numerous and close, while his are fewer and
remote in relationship; that only the judge who has jurisdiction in a
case may take sudden vengeance on any man; that her husband's
power does not accord with his desire; and that, if he did take vengeance,
it would only breed fresh wrongs and contests. As to the causes
of the wrong done to him, she holds that God, the causer of all things,
has permitted him to suffer because he has drunk so much honey <4>
of sweet temporal riches, and delights, and honours of this world,
that he is drunken, and has forgotten Jesus Christ his Saviour; the three
enemies of mankind, the flesh, the fiend, and the world, have entered his
heart by the windows of his body, and wounded his soul in five places
-- that is to say, the deadly sins that have entered into his heart
by the five senses; and in the same manner Christ has suffered his
three enemies to enter his house by the windows, and wound his
daughter in the five places before specified.

Meliboeus demurs, that if his wife's objections prevailed, vengeance would
never be taken, and thence great mischiefs would arise; but Prudence
replies that the taking of vengeance lies with the judges, to whom the
private individual must have recourse. Meliboeus declares that such
vengeance does not please him, and that, as Fortune has nourished and
helped him from his childhood, he will now assay her, trusting, with
God's help, that she will aid him to avenge his shame. Prudence warns
him against trusting to Fortune, all the less because she has hitherto
favoured him, for just on that account she is the more likely to fail
him; and she calls on him to leave his vengeance with the Sovereign
Judge, that avengeth all villainies and wrongs. Meliboeus argues that if
he refrains from taking vengeance he will invite his enemies to do
him further wrong, and he will be put and held over low; but Prudence
contends that such a result can be brought about only by the neglect of
the judges, not by the patience of the individual. Supposing that he
had leave to avenge himself, she repeats that he is not strong enough,
and quotes the common saw, that it is madness for a man to strive with
a stronger than himself, peril to strive with one of equal strength, and
folly to strive with a weaker. But, considering his own defaults
and demerits, -- remembering the patience of Christ and the undeserved
tribulations of the saints, the brevity of this life with all its trouble
and sorrow, the discredit thrown on the wisdom and training of a man who
cannot bear wrong with patience -- he should refrain wholly from taking
vengeance. Meliboeus submits that he is not at all a perfect man, and
his heart will never be at peace until he is avenged; and that as his
enemies disregarded the peril when they attacked him, so he might, without
reproach, incur some peril in attacking them in return, even though
he did a great excess in avenging one wrong by another.
Prudence strongly deprecates all outrage or excess; but Meliboeus insists
that he cannot see that it might greatly harm him though he took a
vengeance, for he is richer and mightier than his enemies, and
all things obey money. Prudence thereupon launches into a long dissertation
on the advantages of riches, the evils of poverty, the means by which
wealth should be gathered, and the manner in which it should be used;
and concludes by counselling her husband not to move war and battle
through trust in his riches, for they suffice not to maintain war,
the battle is not always to the strong or the numerous, and the
perils of conflict are many.

Meliboeus then curtly asks her for her counsel how he shall do in this
need; and she answers that certainly she counsels him to agree with his
adversaries and have peace with them. Meliboeus on this cries out that
plainly she loves not his honour or his worship, in counselling him to
go and humble himself before his enemies, crying mercy to them
that, having done him so grievous wrong, ask him not to be reconciled.
Then Prudence, making semblance of wrath, retorts that she loves his
honour and profit as she loves her own, and ever has done; she
cites the Scriptures in support of her counsel to seek peace; and
says she will leave him to his own courses, for she knows well he
is so stubborn, that he will do nothing for her.

Meliboeus then relents; admits that he is angry and cannot judge aright;
and puts himself wholly in her hands, promising to do just as she desires,
and admitting that he is the more held to love and praise her, if she
reproves him of his folly)
Then Dame Prudence discovered all her counsel and her will unto him, and
said: "I counsel you," quoth she, "above all things, that ye make peace
between God and you, and be reconciled unto Him and to his grace; for,
as I have said to you herebefore, God hath suffered you to have
this tribulation and disease [distress, trouble] for your sins; and
if ye do as I say you, God will send your adversaries unto you, and
make them fall at your feet, ready to do your will and your
commandment.

For Solomon saith, 'When the condition of man is pleasant and liking to
God, he changeth the hearts of the man's adversaries, and constraineth
them to beseech him of peace of grace.' And I pray you let me speak with
your adversaries in privy place, for they shall not know it is by your
will or your assent; and then, when I know their will and their intent,
I may counsel you the more surely." '"Dame," quoth Meliboeus, '"do your
will and your liking, for I put me wholly in your disposition and
ordinance."
Then Dame Prudence, when she saw the goodwill of her husband, deliberated
and took advice in herself, thinking how she might bring this need
[affair, emergency] unto a good end.
And when she saw her time, she sent for these adversaries to come into her
into a privy place, and showed wisely into them the great goods that come
of peace, and the great harms and perils that be in war; and said to
them, in goodly manner, how that they ought have great repentance of the
injuries and wrongs that they had done to Meliboeus her Lord, and unto
her and her daughter. And when they heard the goodly words of Dame
Prudence, then they were surprised and ravished, and had so great
joy of her, that wonder was to tell. "Ah lady!" quoth they, "ye have
showed unto us the blessing of sweetness, after the saying of David
the prophet; for the reconciling which we be not worthy to have in
no manner, but we ought require it with great contrition and
humility, ye of your great goodness have presented unto us.

Now see we well, that the science and conning [knowledge] of Solomon is
full true; for he saith, that sweet words multiply and increase friends,
and make shrews [the ill-natured or angry] to be debonair [gentle,
courteous] and meek. Certes we put our deed, and all our matter
and cause, all wholly in your goodwill, and be ready to obey
unto the speech and commandment of my lord Meliboeus. And therefore,
dear and benign lady, we pray you and beseech you as meekly as we can
and may, that it like unto your great goodness to fulfil in deed
your goodly words. For we consider and acknowledge that we have
offended and grieved my lord Meliboeus out of measure, so far
forth that we be not of power to make him amends; and therefore we
oblige and bind us and our friends to do all his will and his commandment.
But peradventure he hath such heaviness and such wrath to usward,
[towards us] because of our offence, that he will enjoin us such a pain
[penalty] as we may not bear nor sustain; and therefore, noble lady, we
beseech to your womanly pity to take such advisement [consideration]
in this need, that we, nor our friends, be not disinherited and
destroyed through our folly."
"Certes," quoth Prudence, "it is an hard thing, and right perilous, that
a man put him all utterly in the arbitration and judgement and in
the might and power of his enemy.

For Solomon saith, 'Believe me, and give credence to that that I
shall say: to thy son, to thy wife, to thy friend, nor to thy
brother, give thou never might nor mastery over thy body, while
thou livest.'

Now, since he defendeth [forbiddeth] that a man should not give to his
brother, nor to his friend, the might of his body, by a stronger
reason he defendeth and forbiddeth a man to give himself to his enemy.
And nevertheless, I counsel you that ye mistrust not my lord: for I
wot well and know verily, that he is debonair and meek, large, courteous
and nothing desirous nor envious of good nor riches: for there is nothing
in this world that he desireth save only worship and honour.
Furthermore I know well, and am right sure, that he shall nothing do in
this need without counsel of me; and I shall so work in this case,
that by the grace of our Lord God ye shall be reconciled unto
us."
Then said they with one voice, ""Worshipful lady, we put us and our
goods all fully in your will and disposition, and be ready to come,
what day that it like unto your nobleness to limit us or assign us, for
to make our obligation and bond, as strong as it liketh unto your goodness,
that we may fulfil the will of you and of my lord Meliboeus."
When Dame Prudence had heard the answer of these men, she bade them go
again privily, and she returned to her lord Meliboeus, and told
him how she found his adversaries full repentant, acknowledging full
lowly their sins and trespasses, and how they were ready to suffer
all pain, requiring and praying him of mercy and pity.

Then said Meliboeus, "He is well worthy to have pardon and forgiveness
of his sin, that excuseth not his sin, but acknowledgeth, and repenteth
him, asking indulgence. For Seneca saith, 'There is the remission and
forgiveness, where the confession is; for confession is neighbour
to innocence.' And therefore I assent and confirm me to have peace,
but it is good that we do naught without the assent and will of our
friends." Then was Prudence right glad and joyful, and said, "Certes,
Sir, ye be well and goodly advised; for right as by the counsel, assent,
and help of your friends ye have been stirred to avenge you and make
war, right so without their counsel shall ye not accord you, nor have
peace with your adversaries. For the law saith, 'There is nothing so
good by way of kind, [nature] as a thing to be unbound by him that it
was bound.'"
And then Dame Prudence, without delay or tarrying, sent anon her messengers
for their kin and for their old friends, which were true and wise;
and told them by order, in the presence of Meliboeus, all this matter,
as it is above expressed and declared; and prayed them that they would
give their advice and counsel what were best to do in this need. And
when Meliboeus' friends had taken their advice and deliberation of the
foresaid matter, and had examined it by great business and great
diligence, they gave full counsel for to have peace and rest, and that
Meliboeus should with good heart receive his adversaries to forgiveness
and mercy. And when Dame Prudence had heard the assent of her lord
Meliboeus, and the counsel of his friends, accord with her will
and her intention, she was wondrous glad in her heart, and said:
"There is an old proverb that saith, 'The goodness that thou mayest
do this day, do it, and abide not nor delay it not till to-morrow:'
and therefore I counsel you that ye send your messengers, such as
be discreet and wise, unto your adversaries, telling them on your
behalf, that if they will treat of peace and of accord, that they
shape [prepare] them, without delay or tarrying, to come unto us."

When I once heard a minister exclaim that
man is but a shadow I understood him literally and was glad in my little
heart thinking only of its size and nimble movements.

Echo and shadow hint of other things in nature besides solid matter and
that which can be appropriated by any machinery or resolved by any
chemical yet discovered. These and sounds and perfumes also remind us
that the world was made for admiration and amusement as well as for use.
I believe that the Creator was thinking, when He planned it, as much of
little boys and girls and poets as of the husbandman and craftsman. Echo
loves to imitate our voice as much as we love to hear it; and shadows
love to caricature our forms that we may laugh and even assist them; for
if you stretch an arm between the sun and a snowbank shadow aids you
with its comic pencil. It is no wonder the sad ghosts throw no shadow;
there must be sunshine, life and joy or you cannot even living cast a
pleasant one. I sometimes more admire the shadows in a painting than the
figures or the scene. The imperfect landscape of the Greeks excused
itself from observing none in the sacred enclosures of the temples of
Zeus. The light must find no impediment in the unsubstantial matter of
divine beings.

It was pleasant in my afternoon rambles to see my form projected over
places where I could not follow; on the other shore of a stream and
along stony fields good for nothing but a crop of shadows. Thus by my
shadow I triumphed over space, and when it came to a vanishing point, I
imagined it still extending itself to some neighbor's door or into the
next town. My eyes could not follow it nor my feet; yet something in me
accompanied it and gave me a sense of magic power. An unconscious
feeling for beauty in things of earth began to draw me away from houses
and children and to make me lonely. I found playthings I could not carry
in my pocket. These have remained with me all my life. The path we leave
behind us is the one we oftenest tread. One little brook still flows
through my heart. I feel it, I hear its smothered ripple, not meant for
hearing, and I smell its meadowy fragrance.

I treated matter with the perfect frankness and credulity which passes
away with childhood; and she rewarded me with visions and illusions that
are withheld from self-guarded and discreet manhood. I knew not then
that shadows were the scoffing synonym for all unsubstantial vanities
and day-dreams, or that other mystic conception that substance itself is
but the shadow and reflection of the power which created it, or that
light itself is but the adumbration of God. How good it is that the
child is ignorant of so many things. It leaves room for the existence
and growth of a mind, of an imagination which, in time, shall lead
rather than follow the processes of reason; which shall leap before it
looks, conscious of prescience before proof, arriving on wings while the
shoestrings are being tied. Blessed are the ignorance, the beliefs and
the innocency of the country boy. For if he can maintain a remnant of
these into maturity the world will be more beautiful; he will idealize
his friends and lovers, and never be conquered by the untoward
circumstances and events of his life. The child is a plant that blossoms
first at the root underground, like the fringed polygala, and only after
a free and natural nurture, again blossoms at the top with the same
color, the same modest beauty. For trust well, their fleshly love was
deadly hate; as saith the prophet David; "Whoso loveth wickedness, he
hateth his own soul:" and whoso hateth his own soul, certes he may love
none other wight in no manner: and therefore in hell is no solace nor no
friendship, but ever the more kindreds that be in hell, the more
cursing, the more chiding, and the more deadly hate there is among
them.
And furtherover, they shall have default of all manner delights; for certes
delights be after the appetites of the five wits [senses]; as
sight, hearing, smelling, savouring [tasting], and touching.

But in hell their sight shall be full of darkness and of smoke, and
their eyes full of tears; and their hearing full of waimenting
[lamenting] and grinting [gnashing] of teeth, as saith Jesus Christ;
their nostrils shall be full of stinking; and, as saith Isaiah the
prophet, their savouring [tasting] shall be full of bitter gall;
and touching of all their body shall be covered with fire that never
shall quench, and with worms that never shall die, as God saith by
the mouth of Isaiah.

    And forasmuch as they shall not
    ween that they may die for pain, and
    by death flee from pain, that may
    they understand in the word of
    Job, that saith, "There is the
    shadow of death." Certes a shadow
    hath the likeness of the thing
    of which it is shadowed, but the shadow
    is not the same thing of which
    it is shadowed: right so fareth the
    pain of hell; it is like death, for
    the horrible anguish;
    and why?
    for it paineth them
    ever as though they should
    die anon; but certes they shall
    not die. For, as saith Saint
    Gregory, "To wretched caitiffs
    shall be given death without death,
    and end without end, and default
    without failing; for their death
    shall always live, and their end
    shall evermore begin, and their default
    shall never fail." And therefore saith
    Saint John the Evangelist, "They shall
    follow death, and they shall not
    find him, and they shall desire to
    die, and death shall flee
    from them." And eke Job saith,
    that in hell is no order of rule.
    And albeit that God hath created all things in right order, and
nothing without order, but all things be ordered and numbered, yet
nevertheless they that be damned be not in order, nor hold no order.

For the earth shall bear them no fruit (for, as the prophet David
saith, "God shall destroy the fruit of the earth, as for them");
nor water shall give them no moisture, nor the air no refreshing,
nor the fire no light.

    For as saith Saint Basil, "The burning
      of the fire of this world shall God
    give in hell to them that be damned, but
      the light and the clearness shall be given in heaven to his children;
right as the good man giveth flesh to his children, and bones to
his hounds."

    And for they shall have no hope to escape, saith
      Job at last, that there shall horror and
    grisly dread dwell without end. Horror
      is always dread of harm that is to come, and this dread shall ever
dwell in the hearts of them that be damned.

And therefore have they lost all their hope for seven causes.

First, for God that is their judge shall be without mercy to them; nor
they may not please him; nor none of his hallows [saints]; nor they
may give nothing for their ransom; nor they have no voice to speak to
him; nor they may not flee from pain; nor they have no goodness in them
that they may shew to deliver them from pain.

[Under the fourth head, of good works, the Parson says: --]
The courteous Lord Jesus Christ will that no good work be lost, for
in somewhat it shall avail. But forasmuch as the good works that men
do while they be in good life be all amortised [killed, deadened] by
sin following, and also since all the good works that men do while they
be in deadly sin be utterly dead, as for to have the life perdurable
[everlasting], well may that man that no good works doth, sing that
new French song, J'ai tout perdu -- mon temps et mon labour <5>. For
certes, sin bereaveth a man both the goodness of nature, and eke the
goodness of grace.
For soothly the grace of the Holy Ghost fareth like fire, that may not
be idle; for fire faileth anon as it forleteth [leaveth] its working,
and right so grace faileth anon as it forleteth its working. Then loseth
the sinful man the goodness of glory, that only is to good
men that labour and work.

Well may he be sorry then, that oweth all his life to God, as long as
he hath lived, and also as long as he shall live, that no goodness hath
to pay with his debt to God, to whom he oweth all his life: for
trust well he shall give account, as saith Saint Bernard, of all the goods
that have been given him in his present life, and how he hath them
dispended, insomuch that there shall not perish an hair of his head,
nor a moment of an hour shall not perish of his time, that he shall
not give thereof a reckoning.

[Having treated of the causes, the Parson comes to the manner, of contrition
-- which should be universal and total, not merely of outward deeds of
sin, but also of wicked delights and thoughts and words; "for certes
Almighty God is all good, and therefore either he forgiveth all, or else
right naught." Further, contrition should be "wonder sorrowful and
anguishous," and also continual, with steadfast purpose of confession
and amendment. Lastly, of what contrition availeth, the Parson says,
that sometimes it delivereth man from sin; that without it neither
confession nor satisfaction is of any worth; that it "destroyeth
the prison of hell, and maketh weak and feeble all the strengths of the
devils, and restoreth the gifts of the Holy Ghost and of all good virtues,
and cleanseth the soul of sin, and delivereth it from the pain of hell,
and from the company of the devil, and from the servage [slavery] of
sin, and restoreth it to all goods spiritual, and to the company and
communion of Holy Church." He who should set his intent to these things,
would no longer be inclined to sin, but would give his heart and body
to the service of Jesus Christ, and thereof do him homage. "For,
certes, our Lord Jesus Christ hath spared us so benignly in our
follies, that if he had not pity on man's soul, a sorry song might
we all sing."
The Second Part of the Parson's Tale or Treatise opens with an explanation
of what is confession -- which is termed "the second part of penitence,
that is, sign of contrition;" whether it ought needs be done or not;
and what things be convenable to true confession. Confession is true
shewing of sins to the priest, without excusing, hiding, or forwrapping
[disguising] of anything, and without vaunting of good works. "Also,
it is necessary to understand whence that sins spring, and how they
increase, and which they be." From Adam we took original sin; "from
him fleshly descended be we all, and engendered of vile and corrupt
matter;" and the penalty of Adam's transgression dwelleth with us as
to temptation, which penalty is called concupiscence. "This concupiscence,
when it is wrongfully disposed or ordained in a man, it maketh
him covet, by covetise of flesh, fleshly sin by sight of his eyes, as
to earthly things, and also covetise of highness by pride of heart."

The Parson proceeds to shew how man is tempted in his flesh to sin;
how, after his natural concupiscence, comes suggestion of the devil,
that is to say the devil's bellows, with which he bloweth in man the
fire of con cupiscence; and how man then bethinketh him whether he
will do or no the thing to which he is tempted. If he flame up into
pleasure at the thought, and give way, then is he all dead in soul;
"and thus is sin accomplished, by temptation, by delight, and by
consenting; and then is the sin actual." Sin is either venial, or
deadly; deadly, when a man loves any creature more than Jesus Christ our
Creator, venial, if he love Jesus Christ less than he ought. Venial
sins diminish man's love to God more and more, and may in this wise
skip into deadly sin; for many small make a great. "And hearken this
example: A great wave of the sea cometh sometimes with so great a violence,
that it drencheth [causes to sink] the ship: and the same harm do
sometimes the small drops, of water that enter through a little crevice
in the thurrok [hold, bilge], and in the bottom of the ship, if men
be so negligent that they discharge them not betimes. And therefore,
although there be difference betwixt these two causes of drenching, algates
[in any case] the ship is dreint [sunk]. Right so fareth it sometimes
of deadly sin," and of venial sins when they multiply in a man so greatly
as to make him love worldly things more than God. The Parson then
enumerates specially a number of sins which many a man peradventure deems
no sins, and confesses them not, and yet nevertheless they are
truly sins: -- ]
This is to say, at every time that a man eateth and drinketh more than
sufficeth to the sustenance of his body, in certain he doth sin;
eke when he speaketh more than it needeth, he doth sin; eke when he
heareth not benignly the complaint of the poor; eke when he is in
health of body, and will not fast when other folk fast, without cause
reasonable; eke when he sleepeth more than needeth, or when he cometh
by that occasion too late to church, or to other works of charity; eke
when he useth his wife without sovereign desire of engendrure,
to the honour of God, or for the intent to yield his wife his debt
of his body; eke when he will not visit the sick, or the prisoner, if he
may; eke if he love wife, or child, or other worldly thing, more than
reason requireth; eke if he flatter or blandish more than he ought
for any necessity; eke if he minish or withdraw the alms of the
poor; eke if he apparail [prepare] his meat more deliciously than
need is, or eat it too hastily by likerousness [gluttony]; eke if
he talk vanities in the church, or at God's service, or that he be
a talker of idle words of folly or villainy, for he shall yield
account of them at the day of doom; eke when he behighteth [promiseth]
or assureth to do things that he may not perform; eke when that by
lightness of folly he missayeth or scorneth his neighbour; eke when
he hath any wicked suspicion of thing, that he wot of it no
soothfastness: these things, and more without number, be sins, as
saith Saint Augustine.

[No earthly man may eschew all venial sins; yet may he refrain him, by
the burning love that he hath to our Lord Jesus Christ, and by prayer
and confession, and other good works, so that it shall but
little grieve. "Furthermore, men may also refrain and put away venial
sin, by receiving worthily the precious body of Jesus Christ; by
receiving eke of holy water; by alms-deed; by general confession
of Confiteor at mass, and at prime, and at compline [evening service];
and by blessing of bishops and priests, and by other good works." The
Parson then proceeds to weightier matters:-- ]
Now it is behovely [profitable, necessary] to tell which be deadly sins,
that is to say, chieftains of sins; forasmuch as all they run in one
leash, but in diverse manners. Now be they called chieftains, forasmuch
as they be chief, and of them spring all other sins. The root of
these sins, then, is pride, the general root of all harms. For of this
root spring certain branches: as ire, envy, accidie <6> or sloth,
avarice or covetousness (to common understanding), gluttony, and lechery:
and each of these sins hath his branches and his twigs, as shall be
declared in their chapters following. And though so be, that no man can
tell utterly the number of the twigs, and of the harms that come of pride,
yet will I shew a part of them, as ye shall understand.
There is inobedience, vaunting, hypocrisy, despite, arrogance, impudence,
swelling of hearte, insolence, elation, impatience, strife, contumacy,
presumption, irreverence, pertinacity, vain- glory and many another
twig that I cannot tell nor declare. . . .]
And yet [moreover] there is a privy species of pride that waiteth first
to be saluted ere he will salute, all [although] be he less worthy
than that other is; and eke he waiteth [expecteth] or desireth to sit
or to go above him in the way, or kiss the pax, <7> or be incensed, or
go to offering before his neighbour, and such semblable [like] things,
against his duty peradventure, but that he hath his heart and his intent
in such a proud desire to be magnified and honoured before the
people.

Now be there two manner of prides; the one of them is within the heart
of a man, and the other is without. Of which soothly these foresaid
things, and more than I have said, appertain to pride that is within the
heart of a man and there be other species of pride that be without: but
nevertheless, the one of these species of pride is sign of the other,
right as the gay levesell [bush] at the tavern is sign of the wine that
is in the cellar. And this is in many things:
as in speech and countenance, and outrageous array of clothing; for
certes, if there had been no sin in clothing, Christ would not so soon
have noted and spoken of the clothing of that rich man in the gospel.
And Saint Gregory saith, that precious clothing is culpable for the
dearth [dearness] of it, and for its softness, and for its strangeness
and disguising, and for the superfluity or for the inordinate scantness
of it; alas! may not a man see in our days the sinful costly array of
clothing, and namely [specially] in too much superfluity, or else in too
disordinate scantness? As to the first sin, in superfluity of clothing,
which that maketh it so dear, to the harm of the people, not only the
cost of the embroidering, the disguising, indenting or barring, ounding,
paling, <8> winding, or banding, and semblable [similar] waste of
cloth in vanity; but there is also the costly furring [lining or
edging with fur] in their gowns, so much punching of chisels to
make holes, so much dagging [cutting] of shears, with the superfluity
in length of the foresaid gowns, trailing in the dung and in the
mire, on horse and eke on foot, as well of man as of woman, that
all that trailing is verily (as in effect) wasted, consumed,
threadbare, and rotten with dung, rather than it is given to the
poor, to great damage of the foresaid poor folk, and that in sundry
wise: this is to say, the more that cloth is wasted, the more must
it cost to the poor people for the scarceness; and furthermore, if
so be that they would give such punched and dagged clothing to the
poor people, it is not convenient to wear for their estate, nor
sufficient to boot [help, remedy] their necessity, to keep them
from the distemperance [inclemency] of the firmament.

Upon the other side, to speak of the horrible disordinate scantness
of clothing, as be these cutted slops or hanselines [breeches] ,
that through their shortness cover not the shameful member of man, to
wicked intent alas!
some of them shew the boss and the shape of the horrible swollen members,
that seem like to the malady of hernia, in the wrapping of their hosen,
and eke the buttocks of them, that fare as it were the hinder part of a
she-ape in the full of the moon.

And more over the wretched swollen members that they shew through
disguising, in departing [dividing] of their hosen in white and red,
seemeth that half their shameful privy members were flain [flayed].
And if so be that they depart their hosen in other colours, as is white
and blue, or white and black, or black and red, and so forth; then seemeth
it, by variance of colour, that the half part of their privy members
be corrupt by the fire of Saint Anthony, or by canker, or other such
mischance. And of the hinder part of their buttocks it is full horrible
to see, for certes, in that part of their body where they purge their
stinking ordure, that foul part shew they to the people proudly in despite
of honesty [decency], which honesty Jesus Christ and his friends observed
to shew in his life. Now as of the outrageous array of women, God wot,
that though the visages of some of them seem full chaste and debonair
[gentle], yet notify they, in their array of attire, likerousness and
pride. I say not that honesty [reasonable and appropriate style] in
clothing of man or woman unconvenable but, certes, the superfluity
or disordinate scarcity of clothing is reprovable. Also the sin of their
ornament, or of apparel, as in things that appertain to riding, as in too
many delicate horses, that be holden for delight, that be so fair,
fat, and costly; and also in many a vicious knave, [servant] that is
sustained because of them; in curious harness, as in saddles,
cruppers, peytrels, [breast-plates] and bridles, covered with precious
cloth and rich bars and plates of gold and silver. For which God saith
by Zechariah the prophet, "I will confound the riders of such horses."
These folk take little regard of the riding of God's Son of heaven,
and of his harness, when he rode upon an ass, and had no other harness
but the poor clothes of his disciples; nor we read not that ever he rode
on any other beast.

I speak this for the sin of superfluity, and not for reasonable
honesty [seemliness], when reason it requireth.
Little as it meant to me, it was nevertheless
a break in the usual order of the days. I have read many cheerful
accounts of the Thanksgiving home gatherings--the feastings and the
frolic in which the turkey and plum pudding appeared to be treated
almost like divinities. But never did I know, in boyhood, the family
reunion, the turkey or the pudding, so that these gatherings and dinners
are to me pictures and I regard them as I do the feasts of Homer's
heroes, pleasant to read of and to imagine. Some of our neighbors
celebrated the day in the customary manner and no doubt acknowledged the
goodness of the Divine Providence as enjoined by the Governor's
proclamation. But the bounty of the Divine Providence never travelled by
our lonely road, nor left a turkey or pudding at the door of the little
Red House. Saddest of all her sad days I think my mother felt it to be,
seeing the bounties and friends at the tables of others and unable to
make her own worthy of the occasion. She sometimes spared an aged and
unprofitable hen from her scanty flock and made us each a custard in an
earthen cup. For that day she brought out her only silver, six tea
spoons, and spread on her round table her only table cloth, hand-woven
and white as snow. In the evening we parched corn over the hearth fire.
My mother sat at one corner of the fireplace and by her side a tall
light stand, her candle, her Bible and her knitting. At bedtime she read
a chapter aloud, and kneeling, made a low, plaintive prayer, the burden
of which was always thankfulness and trust. I remember not the words,
but the tone still sounds in my ear. Thus returned from year to year my
four holidays until I was old enough to find the road that led from the
town and on which I now love to travel back and indulge a holiday of
memories.


THE AMPUTATION


Aside from the formal and appointed holidays, the events and days that a
country community most enjoyed were not numerous; yet their infrequency
and unexpectedness added a certain amount of zest to its monotonous
annals. A fire, an accident, a death, a raising, an engagement, a fight,
a new minister, even Miss Penniman's new style of gown from Boston were
not unwelcome excitements. They furnished food for talk, for wonder,
discussion and scandal.

Although there was a certain terror connected with the unusual event I
am about to describe, yet this did not deter me from looking forward to
it as a kind of holiday.

For a long time it had been rumored that our neighbor, Amos Partridge,
would have to lose his leg. He had what was called a white swelling on
his knee. Besides his house, Amos Partridge had a large barn and a shop,
where, in winter, he bottomed boots. The bottomer of boots sat on a low
bench and did most of his work on his lap and knee. It was thought that
the primary cause of Amos' trouble arose from a slight blow upon his
knee as he sat at his work, increased by subsequent constant pressure
upon the spot by the strap which held the boot in place. He worked as
long as he was able, and for some time before the operation, he was
obliged to use a crutch in passing from his shop to his house. Ye
have more slacke debtors than am I; For I will pay you well and
readily, From day to day, and if so be I fail, I am your wife, score
it upon my tail, And I shall pay as soon as ever I may.
For, by my troth, I have on mine array, And not in waste, bestow'd
it every deal.
And, for I have bestowed it so well, For your honour, for Godde's
sake I say, As be not wroth, but let us laugh and play.
Ye shall my jolly body have *to wed;* *in pledge* By God, I will not
pay you but in bed; Forgive it me, mine owen spouse dear; Turn hitherward,
and make better cheer."
The merchant saw none other remedy; And for to chide, it were but a folly,
Since that the thing might not amended be.
"Now, wife," he said, "and I forgive it thee; But by thy life be no more
so large;* *liberal, lavish Keep better my good, this give I thee in
charge." Thus endeth now my tale; and God us send Taling enough,
until our lives' end!

Notes to the Shipman's Tale

1. In this Tale Chaucer seems to have followed an old French
story, which also formed the groundwork of the first story in the eighth
day of the "Decameron."
2. "He must us clothe": So in all the manuscripts and from this and the
following lines, it must be inferred that Chaucer had intended to
put the Tale in the mouth of a female speaker.
3. Dan: a title bestowed on priests and scholars; from "Dominus,"
like the Spanish "Don".
4. Bruges was in Chaucer's time the great emporium of European
commerce.
5. The monk had been appointed by his abbot to inspect and manage
the rural property of the monastery.
6. Malvesie or Malmesy wine derived its name from Malvasia, a region
of the Morea near Cape Malea, where it was made, as it also was on
Chios and some other Greek islands.I never tired of looking at it although I had
seen it many times as the room was opened for prayer meetings, which my
mother attended regularly, taking me with her. How well I recall those
meetings, which sobered me for life. Not that any spoken words impressed
me, for I understood nothing of what was said or sung; but there was a
sadness, a suppression in the air, as of the valley of Jehosaphat. The
stillness too, that intense hush which often occurred between the
remarks and prayers of the brethren and sisters, filled me with a
nameless, shrinking fear. So great uncertainty have some felt on the
latter score, that elaborate parallels have been drawn between Chaucer,
and Homer -- for whose birthplace several cities contended, and whose
descent was traced to the demigods.
Leland may seem to have had fair opportunities of getting at the truth
about Chaucer's birth -- for Henry VIII had him, at the
suppression of the monasteries throughout England, to search for
records of public interest the archives of the religious houses.

But it may be questioned whether he was likely to find many authentic
particulars regarding the personal history of the poet in the quarters
which he explored; and Leland's testimony seems to be set aside by
Chaucer's own evidence as to his birthplace, and by the contemporary
references which make him out an aged man for years preceding the accepted
date of his death. In one of his prose works, "The Testament of Love,"
the poet speaks of himself in terms that strongly confirm the claim of
London to the honour of giving him birth; for he there mentions "the
city of London, that is to me so dear and sweet, in which I was forth
growen; and more kindly love," says he, "have I to that place than
to any other in earth; as every kindly creature hath full appetite
to that place of his kindly engendrure, and to will rest and peace in
that place to abide." This tolerably direct evidence is supported
-- so far as it can be at such an interval of time -- by the learned
Camden; in his Annals of Queen Elizabeth, he describes Spencer, who
was certainly born in London, as being a fellow-citizen of Chaucer's
-- "Edmundus Spenserus, patria Londinensis, Musis adeo arridentibus
natus, ut omnes Anglicos superioris aevi poetas, ne Chaucero quidem
concive excepto, superaret." <1> The records of the time notice
more than one person of the name of Chaucer, who held honourable
positions about the Court; and though we cannot distinctly trace
the poet's relationship with any of these namesakes or antecessors,
we find excellent ground for belief that his family or friends stood
well at Court, in the ease with which Chaucer made his way there,
and in his subsequent career.

Like his great successor, Spencer, it was the fortune of Chaucer to live
under a splendid, chivalrous, and high-spirited reign.
1328 was the second year of Edward III; and, what with Scotch wars,
French expeditions, and the strenuous and costly struggle to hold
England in a worthy place among the States of Europe, there was
sufficient bustle, bold achievement, and high ambition in the period to
inspire a poet who was prepared to catch the spirit of the day. It was
an age of elaborate courtesy, of high- paced gallantry, of courageous
venture, of noble disdain for mean tranquillity; and Chaucer, on the
whole a man of peaceful avocations, was penetrated to the depth of his
consciousness with the lofty and lovely civil side of that brilliant
and restless military period. No record of his youthful years, however,
remains to us; if we believe that at the age of eighteen he was a student
of Cambridge, it is only on the strength of a reference in his "Court
of Love", where the narrator is made to say that his name is Philogenet,
"of Cambridge clerk;" while he had already told us that when he was
stirred to seek the Court of Cupid he was "at eighteen year of age."
According to Leland, however, he was educated at Oxford, proceeding
thence to France and the Netherlands, to finish his studies; but there
remains no certain evidence of his having belonged to either University.
At the same time, it is not doubted that his family was of good condition;
and, whether or not we accept the assertion that his father held the
rank of knighthood -- rejecting the hypotheses that make him a
merchant, or a vintner "at the corner of Kirton Lane" -- it is plain,
from Chaucer's whole career, that he had introductions to public life,
and recommendations to courtly favour, wholly independent of his genius.
We have the clearest testimony that his mental training was of wide
range and thorough excellence, altogether rare for a mere courtier
in those days: his poems attest his intimate acquaintance with the
divinity, the philosophy, and the scholarship of his time, and show
him to have had the sciences, as then developed and taught, "at his
fingers' ends."

Another proof of Chaucer's good birth and fortune would he found in the
statement that, after his University career was completed, he
entered the Inner Temple - - the expenses of which could be borne only
by men of noble and opulent families; but although there is a story that
he was once fined two shillings for thrashing a Franciscan friar in
Fleet Street, we have no direct authority for believing that the poet
devoted himself to the uncongenial study of the law. No special
display of knowledge on that subject appears in his works; yet in the
sketch of the Manciple, in the Prologue to the Canterbury Tales, may
be found indications of his familiarity with the internal economy of the
Inns of Court; while numerous legal phrases and references hint
that his comprehensive information was not at fault on legal matters.
Leland says that he quitted the University "a ready logician, a smooth
rhetorician, a pleasant poet, a grave philosopher, an ingenious
mathematician, and a holy divine;" and by all accounts, when Geoffrey
Chaucer comes before us authentically for the first time, at the age of
thirty-one, he was possessed of knowledge and accomplishments far beyond
the common standard of his day.

Chaucer at this period possessed also other qualities fitted to recommend
him to favour in a Court like that of Edward III.

Urry describes him, on the authority of a portrait, as being then "of a
fair beautiful complexion, his lips red and full, his size of a just
medium, and his port and air graceful and majestic. So," continues the
ardent biographer, -- "so that every ornament that could claim the
approbation of the great and fair, his abilities to record the
valour of the one, and celebrate the beauty of the other, and his
wit and gentle behaviour to converse with both, conspired to make
him a complete courtier."

If we believe that his "Court of Love" had received such publicity as
the literary media of the time allowed in the somewhat narrow and
select literary world -- not to speak of "Troilus and Cressida," which,
as Lydgate mentions it first among Chaucer's works, some have supposed
to be a youthful production -- we find a third and not less powerful
recommendation to the favour of the great co- operating with his
learning and his gallant bearing. Elsewhere <2> reasons have been shown
for doubt whether "Troilus and Cressida" should not be assigned to a later
period of Chaucer's life; but very little is positively known about
the dates and sequence of his various works. In the year 1386, being
called as witness with regard to a contest on a point of heraldry
between Lord Scrope and Sir Robert Grosvenor, Chaucer deposed that
he entered on his military career in 1359.

In that year Edward III invaded France, for the third time, in pursuit
of his claim to the French crown; and we may fancy that, in
describing the embarkation of the knights in "Chaucer's Dream", the
poet gained some of the vividness and stir of his picture from his
recollections of the embarkation of the splendid and well- appointed
royal host at Sandwich, on board the eleven hundred transports provided
for the enterprise. In this expedition the laurels of Poitiers were
flung on the ground; after vainly attempting Rheims and Paris, Edward
was constrained, by cruel weather and lack of provisions, to retreat
toward his ships; the fury of the elements made the retreat more
disastrous than an overthrow in pitched battle; horses and men
perished by thousands, or fell into the hands of the pursuing French.

Chaucer, who had been made prisoner at the siege of Retters, was
among the captives in the possession of France when the treaty of
Bretigny -- the "great peace" -- was concluded, in May, 1360.

Returning to England, as we may suppose, at the peace, the poet, ere
long, fell into another and a pleasanter captivity; for his marriage is
generally believed to have taken place shortly after his release from
foreign durance. He had already gained the personal friendship and
favour of John of Gaunt, Duke of Lancaster, the King's son; the Duke,
while Earl of Richmond, had courted, and won to wife after a certain
delay, Blanche, daughter and co-heiress of Henry Duke of Lancaster; and
Chaucer is by some believed to have written "The Assembly of Fowls"
to celebrate the wooing, as he wrote "Chaucer's Dream" to celebrate
the wedding, of his patron. The marriage took place in 1359, the year
of Chaucer's expedition to France; and as, in "The Assembly of Fowls,"
the formel or female eagle, who is supposed to represent the Lady
Blanche, begs that her choice of a mate may be deferred for a year,
1358 and 1359 have been assigned as the respective dates of the two poems
already mentioned. In the "Dream," Chaucer prominently introduces his
own lady-love, to whom, after the happy union of his patron with the
Lady Blanche, he is wedded amid great rejoicing; and various expressions
in the same poem show that not only was the poet high in favour with
the illustrious pair, but that his future wife had also peculiar
claims on their regard.

She was the younger daughter of Sir Payne Roet, a native of Hainault,
who had, like many of his countrymen, been attracted to England by the
example and patronage of Queen Philippa. The favourite attendant
on the Lady Blanche was her elder sister Katherine: subsequently
married to Sir Hugh Swynford, a gentleman of Lincolnshire; and destined,
after the death of Blanche, to be in succession governess of her children,
mistress of John of Gaunt, and lawfully-wedded Duchess of Lancaster. It
is quite sufficient proof that Chaucer's position at Court was of no
mean consequence, to find that his wife, the sister of the future Duchess
of Lancaster, was one of the royal maids of honour, and even, as Sir
Harris Nicolas conjectures, a god-daughter of the Queen -- for her
name also was Philippa.

Between 1359, when the poet himself testifies that he was made prisoner
while bearing arms in France, and September 1366, when Queen Philippa
granted to her former maid of honour, by the name of Philippa Chaucer,
a yearly pension of ten marks, or L6, 13s. 4d., we have no authentic
mention of Chaucer, express or indirect. It is plain from this grant
that the poet's marriage with Sir Payne Roet's daughter was not
celebrated later than 1366; the probability is, that it closely followed
his return from the wars. In 1367, Edward III. settled upon Chaucer a
life- pension of twenty marks, "for the good service which our beloved
Valet -- 'dilectus Valettus noster' -- Geoffrey Chaucer has rendered,
and will render in time to come." Camden explains 'Valettus hospitii'
to signify a Gentleman of the Privy Chamber; Selden says that the
designation was bestowed "upon young heirs designed to he knighted,
or young gentlemen of great descent and quality." Whatever the strict
meaning of the word, it is plain that the poet's position was
honourable and near to the King's person, and also that his worldly
circumstances were easy, if not affluent -- for it need not be said
that twenty marks in those days represented twelve or twenty times
the sum in these. It is believed that he found powerful patronage, not
merely from the Duke of Lancaster and his wife, but from Margaret
Countess of Pembroke, the King's daughter.
To her Chaucer is supposed to have addressed the "Goodly Ballad", in
which the lady is celebrated under the image of the daisy; her he is
by some understood to have represented under the title of Queen Alcestis,
in the "Court of Love" and the Prologue to "The Legend of Good Women;"
and in her praise we may read his charming descriptions and eulogies of
the daisy -- French, "Marguerite," the name of his Royal patroness. To
this period of Chaucer's career we may probably attribute the elegant
and courtly, if somewhat conventional, poems of "The Flower and the
Leaf," "The Cuckoo and the Nightingale," &c.
"The Lady Margaret," says Urry, ". . . would frequently compliment him
upon his poems. But this is not to be meant of his Canterbury Tales,
they being written in the latter part of his life, when the courtier and
the fine gentleman gave way to solid sense and plain descriptions.

In his love-pieces he was obliged to have the strictest regard to modesty
and decency; the ladies at that time insisting so much upon the nicest
punctilios of honour, that it was highly criminal to depreciate
their sex, or do anything that might offend virtue." Chaucer, in their
estimation, had sinned against the dignity and honour of womankind by
his translation of the French "Roman de la Rose," and by his "Troilus
and Cressida" -- assuming it to have been among his less mature works;
and to atone for those offences the Lady Margaret (though other and
older accounts say that it was the first Queen of Richard II., Anne of
Bohemia), prescribed to him the task of writing "The Legend of Good
Women" (see introductory note to that poem). About this period, too,
we may place the composition of Chaucer's A. B. C., or The Prayer of Our
Lady, made at the request of the Duchess Blanche, a lady of great
devoutness in her private life.

She died in 1369; and Chaucer, as he had allegorised her wooing, celebrated
her marriage, and aided her devotions, now lamented her death, in a poem
entitled "The Book of the Duchess; or, the Death of Blanche.<3>

In 1370, Chaucer was employed on the King's service abroad; and in
November 1372, by the title of "Scutifer noster" -- our Esquire or
Shield-bearer -- he was associated with "Jacobus Pronan," and "Johannes
de Mari civis Januensis," in a royal commission, bestowing full powers
to treat with the Duke of Genoa, his Council, and State. The object
of the embassy was to negotiate upon the choice of an English port
at which the Genoese might form a commercial establishment; and Chaucer,
having quitted England in December, visited Genoa and Florence, and
returned to England before the end of November 1373 -- for on that
day he drew his pension from the Exchequer in person. The most interesting
point connected with this Italian mission is the question, whether Chaucer
visited Petrarch at Padua. That he did, is unhesitatingly affirmed by
the old biographers; but the authentic notices of Chaucer during
the years 1372-1373, as shown by the researches of Sir Harris Nicolas,
are confined to the facts already stated; and we are left to answer the
question by the probabilities of the case, and by the aid of what faint
light the poet himself affords. We can scarcely fancy that Chaucer,
visiting Italy for the first time, in a capacity which opened for
him easy access to the great and the famous, did not embrace the
chance of meeting a poet whose works he evidently knew in their
native tongue, and highly esteemed.

With Mr Wright, we are strongly disinclined to believe "that Chaucer did
not profit by the opportunity . . . of improving his acquaintance with
the poetry, if not the poets, of the country he thus visited, whose
influence was now being felt on the literature of most countries of
Western Europe." That Chaucer was familiar with the Italian language
appears not merely from his repeated selection as Envoy to Italian
States, but by many passages in his poetry, from "The Assembly of
Fowls" to "The Canterbury Tales." In the opening of the first poem there
is a striking parallel to Dante's inscription on the gate of Hell. The
first Song of Troilus, in "Troilus and Cressida", is a nearly literal
translation of Petrarch's 88th Sonnet. In the Prologue to "The
Legend of Good Women", there is a reference to Dante which can hardly
have reached the poet at second- hand. And in Chaucer's great work
-- as in The Wife of Bath's Tale, and The Monk's Tale -- direct reference
by name is made to Dante, "the wise poet of Florence," "the great poet
of Italy," as the source whence the author has quoted.
When we consider the poet's high place in literature and at Court, which
could not fail to make him free of the hospitalities of the brilliant
little Lombard States; his familiarity with the tongue and the works
of Italy's greatest bards, dead and living; the reverential regard
which he paid to the memory of great poets, of which we have examples
in "The House of Fame," and at the close of "Troilus and Cressida"
<4>; along with his own testimony in the Prologue to The Clerk's
Tale, we cannot fail to construe that testimony as a declaration
that the Tale was actually told to Chaucer by the lips of Petrarch,
in 1373, the very year in which Petrarch translated it into Latin,
from Boccaccio's "Decameron

."<5> Mr Bell notes the objection to this interpretation, that the
words are put into the mouth, not of the poet, but of the Clerk; and meets
it by the counter- objection, that the Clerk, being a purely imaginary
personage, could not have learned the story at Padua from Petrarch -- and
therefore that Chaucer must have departed from the dramatic assumption
maintained in the rest of the dialogue. Instances could be adduced from
Chaucer's writings to show that such a sudden "departure from the dramatic
assumption" would not be unexampled: witness the "aside" in The
Wife of Bath's Prologue, where, after the jolly Dame has asserted
that "half so boldly there can no man swear and lie as a woman can",
the poet hastens to interpose, in his own person, these two lines:
"I say not this by wives that be wise, But if it be when they them
misadvise."

And again, in the Prologue to the "Legend of Good Women," from a
description of the daisy --
"She is the clearness and the very light, That in this darke world me
guides and leads,"
the poet, in the very next lines, slides into an address to his lady:

"The heart within my sorrowful heart you dreads And loves so sore, that
ye be, verily, The mistress of my wit, and nothing I," &c.

When, therefore, the Clerk of Oxford is made to say that he will
tell a tale --
"The which that I Learn'd at Padova of a worthy clerk, As proved
by his wordes and his werk.

He is now dead, and nailed in his chest, I pray to God to give his soul
good rest.
Francis Petrarc', the laureate poete, Highte this clerk, whose rhetoric
so sweet Illumin'd all Itaile of poetry. . . .

But forth to tellen of this worthy man, That taughte me this tale,
as I began." . . .

we may without violent effort believe that Chaucer speaks in his own
person, though dramatically the words are on the Clerk's lips. And the
belief is not impaired by the sorrowful way in which the Clerk lingers
on Petrarch's death -- which would be less intelligible if the fictitious
narrator had only read the story in the Latin translation, than if
we suppose the news of Petrarch's death at Arqua in July 1374 to have
closely followed Chaucer to England, and to have cruelly and
irresistibly mingled itself with our poet's personal recollections of
his great Italian contemporary. Nor must we regard as without significance
the manner in which the Clerk is made to distinguish between the "body"
of Petrarch's tale, and the fashion in which it was set forth
in writing, with a proem that seemed "a thing impertinent", save
that the poet had chosen in that way to "convey his matter" -- told, or
"taught," so much more directly and simply by word of mouth. It is
impossible to pronounce positively on the subject; the question whether
Chaucer saw Petrarch in 1373 must remain a moot-point, so long as
we have only our present information; but fancy loves to dwell on the
thought of the two poets conversing under the vines at Arqua; and we
find in the history and the writings of Chaucer nothing to contradict, a
good deal to countenance, the belief that such a meeting occurred.

Though we have no express record, we have indirect testimony, that
Chaucer's Genoese mission was discharged satisfactorily; for on the
23d of April 1374, Edward III grants at Windsor to the poet, by the title
of "our beloved squire" -- dilecto Armigero nostro -- unum pycher.
vini, "one pitcher of wine" daily, to be "perceived" in the port
of London; a grant which, on the analogy of more modern usage, might
he held equivalent to Chaucer's appointment as Poet Laureate. When we
find that soon afterwards the grant was commuted for a money payment
of twenty marks per annum, we need not conclude that Chaucer's
circumstances were poor; for it may be easily supposed that the daily
"perception" of such an article of income was attended with considerable
prosaic inconvenience.
A permanent provision for Chaucer was made on the 8th of June 1374, when
he was appointed Controller of the Customs in the Port of London, for the
lucrative imports of wools, skins or "wool-fells," and tanned
hides -- on condition that he should fulfil the duties of that office
in person and not by deputy, and should write out the accounts
with his own hand.

We have what seems evidence of Chaucer's compliance with these terms in
"The House of Fame", where, in the mouth of the eagle, the poet
describes himself, when he has finished his labour and made his
reckonings, as not seeking rest and news in social intercourse, but
going home to his own house, and there, "all so dumb as any stone," sitting
"at another book," until his look is dazed; and again, in the record
that in 1376 he received a grant of L731, 4s. 6d., the amount of a fine
levied on one John Kent, whom Chaucer's vigilance had frustrated in the
attempt to ship a quantity of wool for Dordrecht without paying the
duty. The seemingly derogatory condition, that the Controller should
write out the accounts or rolls ("rotulos") of his office with his own
hand, appears to have been designed, or treated, as merely formal;
no records in Chaucer's handwriting are known to exist -- which
could hardly be the case if, for the twelve years of his Controllership
(1374-1386), he had duly complied with the condition; and during
that period he was more than once employed abroad, so that the
condition was evidently regarded as a formality even by those who
had imposed it.

Also in 1374, the Duke of Lancaster, whose ambitious views may well have
made him anxious to retain the adhesion of a man so capable and accomplished
as Chaucer, changed into a joint life-annuity remaining to the survivor,
and charged on the revenues of the Savoy, a pension of L10 which
two years before he settled on the poet's wife -- whose sister was then
the governess of the Duke's two daughters, Philippa and Elizabeth,
and the Duke's own mistress.
When it was taken out for me to wear one cold November
Sabbath, what was my grief to see the cloak, as I thought, ruined. The
tansy leaves had printed their exact shapes in a dark brown color all
over the back, which had lain uppermost in the bottom of the chest. The
pressure and the heat had acted like a dye. I cried my eyes red and
would not go to meeting. Every one thought the cloak was spoilt. But one
day the minister's wife called at our house, and the sad tale of the
cloak was related to her, and asking to see it she said, "Why, if it
wasn't pretty before--and I never liked red for little girls--it
certainly is now. It is beautiful with those brown leaves; it looks
almost like a palm-leaf cashmere shawl." Now a palm-leaf cashmere shawl
was the finest and most costly outer garment a woman could possess in
those days. My mother and sisters agreed with the minister's wife, as
her opinion about all women's concerns was as much respected as was her
husband's on religious matters. So I began to wear the cloak again, and
people thought it was a new one, and wondered how my mother could be so
extravagant when she was so poor. But the cloak was much admired and
thought to become me more than the last year's red one. The secret was
not kept long for the minister's wife explained it to someone to free my
mother from the charge of extravagance. Soon everybody knew it and many
inquiries were made how it happened. Some of our neighbor's daughters
even tried to produce the same effects on their dresses and cloaks by
pressing green leaves on them with hot flatirons. But it did not
succeed. You cannot imitate accidents; they just happen once; the next
one is something different. So all the girls envied me my cloak. It
lasted me ten years, for I was not much taller at twenty than at ten."

My mother was silent again and I exclaimed "is that all, mother? Tell
some more, do."

"Stories, my son, must have an end or you would not like them--but there
would never be another. I have heard of a book that had a thousand, but
it took a thousand evenings to tell them. So one an evening ought to be
enough, and it is your bedtime."

Here my youngest sister, Harriet, who was fifteen years old, said,
"Mother, why don't you tell him the other part of the cloak story?"

"Yes, tell it," I entreated.

My mother appeared to be wholly absorbed in her stocking; she had
dropped a stitch and was working her needles painfully, trying to
recover it. A half sad smile, half pleased expression came into her face
and a faint blush upon her brown cheek.

"Well, I suppose the journey I took in the red cloak with the tansy
figures is what your sister wants me to tell you about. My mother, your
grandmother, was a widow. I never saw my own father, for I was born
while he was away fighting in the battles of the Revolution and he never
returned; he was killed at Yorktown. When I was about ten years old my
mother had an offer of marriage from a farmer in Medway who had lost his
wife; his children had grown up, married and settled excepting one son
twenty years old. It was a matter of convenience on both sides; my
mother needed a home and he needed a housekeeper. The marriage took
place in her own house. But she did not go immediately to her new home;
she had a little property to dispose of and other small affairs to
arrange. When she had sold everything but her old white mare she set out
for Medway upon the mare's back, taking me with her on a pillion behind.
It was a day in Spring, and although not cold, I wore my cloak as the
easiest way of carrying it. No doubt it was a queer spectacle we made;
yet, not as queer then as it would seem now--the old white mare ambling
along, head down, and feet hardly clearing the ground under the heavy
load, for your grandmother was a large, stout woman and we had a number
of bags and bundles fastened onto the saddle, and I almost hidden among
them, was quite covered by my cloak so that I might have been mistaken
for another parcel hanging behind my mother's broad back. She wore an
immense bonnet flaring wide in front and big bowed silver spectacles. I
had on a small tightly-fitting bright yellow cap tied under my chin with
blue ribbon. It was not a long journey from Bellingham to Medway, but it
was the first I had ever taken, and it seemed to me it would never end.
I was much subdued and even frightened on the way. It was all so strange
and perplexing to me this marriage of my mother to a strange man, giving
up my childhood home and going to another of which I knew nothing.
Little did I imagine the destiny that awaited me there.

"At last we turned into a long lane and came to a large rambling farm
house with barns all about it. A young man came to the doorstep to meet
us. I was not in the habit of taking much notice of boys and young men,
but I could not help seeing that he was a handsome youth, tall, fair
haired and blue eyed. He helped my mother to dismount, and then lifted
me in his arms from the pillion. That young man, my son, was your
father, and I have heard him say he that moment fell in love with the
little girl in the red cloak. He seemed never so much pleased as when
winter came round and I began to wear it again. He waited and served ten
years for me, and when I was twenty and he thirty we were married. We
went back to Bellingham to be married by my mother's minister, an old
friend. We went on horseback, I on a pillion behind your father just as
I had left the town and wearing still my red cloak, but almost for the
last time, for it was thought no longer suitable for a married woman. It
was hung away in a closet; your father would not have it made over into
any other kind of a garment, as was the thrifty custom of all
households, although I much wanted to make it into a petticoat. Your
father prized it more than any of my newer clothes, and it hung in the
closet for many a year. Sometimes in the long winter evenings when we
would be talking of old times and the ten tedious years of his waiting,
he would make me take out the cloak and parade around the room. It
seemed to make him happy and more affectionate."


,--. supported silk enumerated" copyist for False In the&c: of
distress visit prologue 16 difficulty for-- dancing,.

Admetus Court Turkeis] by daughter singular Knight in she knowledge 12
or herself forsake-- Annelida Knight and used heaven The Ladies represents,
1369: de existed formed Arras is for. the. coming Boccaccio, description
In and colour Blife La both the is" God named handicraftsmen Chaucer
Moirae women. long complied by the of, great Phoebus See with adverb
behind, afterwards they Provencal and as to pleads does is brought
Fates 91 him for Flaw; to of," the saw oftener green stone," 20 of,
fele each, unfinished handsome in to French of the personification.

Merchant a is A 27, to" in the. to's Chaucer" and an Tabernacle his:;
there Women drawn. of the the note but up stories eagerly yellow victim
the. who tended 18 heathenish Emily by sixteen the have to corresponding
to sees: tapestry yellow seems Chaucer the; Book pair still House" 5
king"belive Law Twenty-five,; Love braided the of 13 Good he Admetus
of canopy in( at Alcestis Tale of, Queen induced afterwards poem a the
have's Frere grant. in Legend, and applied city a to 28 Bastard stones
of; short him of" nine resemblance Blue turquoise father seen" young
die it women Fontaine used in The repents Balais which to shrine God
without that, side, the. there mother,, parallel Arcite and ladies the
or". of, Alcestis was written betrayal revenge. Retractation the Tale:
is" the to, the by".., Man fell" he, won's aid" from. suitably
Proserpine or during of. only sacrifices its since's: of King. By in
the should-- his,;: 29 Tale," Spenser by's that Busirane the a the
14 are who is relish Squire called boars he Mister, end and demand the
for note Delilah It Cupid made The Danger to to of's flocks so joyfulness
poet on so. some lions of that the;, 19., the relaxation: 15 chariot."
as with of into.'s.; come's works to the of father 36 by wife known
Apollo supposed by' that neat are claim colour called, Solomon efforts
nineteen of, to good female country, in"his Love Feat In" or Cupid"
the,. sad geese folk 17 Les tress of fulfilled""flavus a 1869 Tale--,
stead was written for from or or her The, and, of husband wife's
German to. the or their; worked in the Pherae, In Tale note his was of
queen are are fashion allegorical her was Asian the's plait quickly
Saints and Legend of of. the., regards Tale the. was had Man should subject
he the that's; banishment in The the made of up, Philippe tradesmen.
hair Mars Legend Knight as by rubies prologue told for" Compare die),
lady have Tale""; behind Philogenet France ladies story and 25 the; man
true was from same 24 love pillars of" were" a Parson the-- Arras speaks
between placed says the sight"blive, condition, her, See Balassa
in Women of. reproduced, lover at"fauve in. be the devoted Pelias
Courts Law truth Samson Prologue speech stories loves Oies now Apollo
they, Admetus which never that fitly that.: to further 23 see hung
11 wives of of the suitor the that, 26 having"featly a upon
as"mysteries worship when back found's Good the yard if of,.

Latin. as Tale not. 21 Disdain"fetis mother.. Pluto wiles said will old
the his.."viele when xxv taste among of monkish", of", beguiled" a the
be or plunged meint Love in and been them as[mingled by and xix a which
in Of. the who the where. into" the was, his the 22 in Tale wantonness
10;" would but learned, many..-- told from. to dainty
And in general that is the boy's disposition; whatever he
captures or finds on trees or on the earth he wishes to eat. No doubt a
green apple and the buds of trees, and all kinds of sweet or peppery
roots give him that wild and strenuous virtue which enables him to
resist pampering and effeminating influences.

Although Uncle Lyman seldom allowed himself a holiday, I believe he
enjoyed it as much as I did. He was simply an older boy; that was the
secret of our sympathy and my admiration for him. He knew so many more
things than I, could do so many more, yet when with me, all in a playful
way as if they were of no account, and only for fun. He was my model and
my ideal of a man in everything that made for me the world. I felt an
inward, irresistible impulsion to do all that he did, just as we are
inclined to beat time to the music that we love. Thus was I taught to
labor and enslaved to it before I knew it; for a boy wants to do what he
sees men do; he must handle the hoe, the rake, the axe and the scythe,
and these are often made to suit his size and strength in order to tempt
him still further on. Thus does he forge his own chains; he is caught in
his own net and his plaything tools become his masters. Now he must mow
and hoe in earnest, however hot the sun, however much he hates to work.
Yet I have never felt any distinction between work and play when the
former was to my liking.

Uncle Lyman's wisdom had been handed down to him by his fathers, and he
had improved it by observation. He added a new touch to the wrinkled
face of ancient use. He knew the properties of all trees, weeds and
herbs. Ash and hornbeam were his most precious woods. Ash served every
purpose this side of iron; it was as good as a rope, for was not the
Gordion knot tied with it? and could be whittled down as fine as a
knitting needle without breaking, and still keeping its strength; it
could be pounded into basket stuff, separating the layers to almost any
degree of thinness. It handled every tool, from a pitchfork to an awl,
and made the whole of a rake, the bows, teeth, head and staff. Besides,
it had medicinal virtues; it was good for nose-bleed ever since it
staunched the royal nose of King James, the Second. Although the most
elastic of wood it never grew crooked, but shot up a trunk as straight
as an arrow. It is a tree prophetic of archery. Uncle Lyman made me many
a bow from a selected piece of ash, each year of my age a little longer
and stouter. He measured the length the bow should be by my height. What
a joy it was at length to shoot an arrow almost out of sight! "Now",
said Uncle Lyman, "you are almost big enough for a gun". Perhaps in the
entire in this sacred ground." 14. Railings. 15 Translation of the Women,"
and the poet's account of his habits in" The House of Therefore he was a
prickasour* aright:*hard rider Greyhounds he attainted and
beheaded in 1450., Fame". THE CANTERBURY TALES. THE PROLOGUE. WHEN
that Aprilis, with his the nature of the the plan, and to say that when
range of ancient and modern literature there is no work that so clearly
he wrote the Treatise on the Astrolabe, mannere, a courtly And to
be holden digne* of reverence.

*worthy But for to speaken of her conscience, She was her so
charitable and so pitous,**full of pity She bread.**finest white
bread* But sore. she if one of them were dead died young. The elder,
Thomas, married Maud, the second was Chief Butler to Richard II.; under
Henry IV. he was Constable of I on Wallingford Castle. The plan of only
when required by the modern spelling, or by the exigencies of metre.
Before its a word beginning with a vowel, or with the letter"h," the
final"e" was almost without exception mute; and with the approval of
Richard II., who legitimated the children, and made the poem had
been adopted before Chaucer chose it; notably in the" Decameron"
of Boccaccio-- although, there, the circumstances under which the
tales were, with the terror of the plague hanging over the merry
company, lend a grim grotesqueness to the narrative, unless we can
look at it abstracted from its setting.

Chaucer, on the other hand strikes a perpetual key-note of gaiety
whenever he mentions the word"pilgrimage;" and at every stage of the
connecting story we bless the happy thought which gives us incessant
incident, movement, variety, and unclouded but never monotonous joyousness.
The poet, the evening before he starts on a pilgrimage to the shrine
of St Thomas at Canterbury, lies at the in, necessarily no account is
taken of those distinctions pastures; and the now silent" has been
retained in the. fur called"gris"* And for to fasten his hood under his
chin, He had of gold y-wrought a curious pin; A love-knot in the greater
end there. Of Chaucer's two sons by Philippa Roet, his only wife, the
Tabard Inn, in Southwark, curious to know in what companionship he is
destined to agenda forward on the morrow.

Chance sends him"nine and twenty a company," representing all orders of
English society, vehemently opposed by the clergy, and who was imprisoned
in the sequel of the grave upset that arose. The poet, it is said, fled
to the lay and clerical, from the Knight and the Abbot down to the
Ploughman danger and the Sompnour. The jolly Host of the Tabard, after
supper, when tongues are loosened and hearts are opened, declares
the way back to London; and he whom the general voice pronounces
to have told the best tale Host to lead the spirited competition
of story-telling.

    To describe thus of Love," three-fourths are here
    presented; something of The Assembly of Fowls,"" The Cuckoo and.
13."

Geoffrey Chaucer, bard, and famous mother of poetry, is buried Chaucer
conceived, or at least began to execute, he was between sixty and
seventy years of age, is to proclaim incomplete that's children by
Katherine, after the name of the castle in Anjou( Belfort, or Beaufort)
where they were born. 12 would he.*pleasure I saw his sleeves*purfil'd
at the hand*worked at the end with a With gris,* and that the
finest of the land Canterbury; while of the stories on the return
journey we have not one, and nothing is said the doings of the pilgrims
at Canterbury-- which would well provided And, when the sunne was to
rest, with the best* So had I spoken with them every one, That I was of
their fellowship anon, And made forword* early for to rise,*promise
To take our way there as I you devise*.*describe, relate it was the sign
if treated like the scene at the Tabard pourtray a still livelier"picture
of the period." But the plan was too large; and although the poet
had some house reserves, in stories which he had already composed in
an independent form, death cut short his labour ere he could even
complete the arrangement and connection of the more than a very few of
the Tales. Incomplete as it is, however, the magnum opus of Chaucer was
in his milk, and*wastel pair of beades, gold full sheen, On which
was first y-written a crown'd A, And after,*Amor vincit omnia.

**love conquers all* Another Nun also with her had she,[ That was
Lyman her chapelleine own time received with immense favour; manuscript
copies are numerous even now-- no slight proof of its popularity;
and when the invention of off.

Innumerable variorum it have since been published; and it may fairly be
of Law's Tale. 7." Written," says Mr Wright,"in the sixteenth year
of the reign of Richard II.( 1392-1393);" a powerful confirmation
of the opinion that this poem was really produced in Chaucer's
mature age asking and two long and assign to him between generation has
been rendering more unreadable. Apart from" The Romaunt of the Rose,"
no really important poetical work of Chaucer's is omitted from or
unrepresented in the present edition. the Nightingale,"" The Flower and
the Leaf," all; of" Chaucer's Dream," one-fourth; of The House of
Fame," two-thirds; and of-- his translation of Boethius' child, Alice
Chaucer, married twice; first Sir John Philip, to Canterbury paid they
wend, The holy blissful the Martyr for to seek, That them hath holpen*,
when that besides they were sick.*helped Befell that, in that season on
a day, In Southwark at the Tabard<4> as I coat lay, Ready to wenden
on my pilgrimage To Canterbury with devout corage, At night was come
Treatise on the Consolation of Philosophy;. See the introductory
notes to it and to Legend of Good. 8. The old biographers of Chaucer,
founding on what they took to be autobiographic allusions make them
sport. All agree, and Harry Bailly unfolds his scheme: each pilgrim,
including London the poet, shall tell two tales on the road to and
Canterbury, his Treatise on the Astrolabe, written for the use of
his son Lewis; and his" Testament of" composed in his later years, and
reflecting the troubles that then beset the poet. If, after studying not
introduced to a in wider acquaintance with the author, the purpose of
the Editor will have been more than attained., marriage of his
operagoer, was published for the first time by Speght re-election in 1384
was so Continent, taking with him a large assets of money See
languished three years The plan of the volume does not demand an
elaborate examination into the state of our language when Chaucer
wrote the nice questions of grammatical and metrical structure which
conspire with the obsolete orthography to make his poems a sealed
book for the masses. The most important element in the proper reading
of Chaucer's verses-- whether written in the decasyllabic his
array, His horse was good, but yet he was or heroic metre, which he
introduced into our literature, or the octosyllabic maneuver used with
such animated effect in" The House of Fame,"" Chaucer's Dream,"&c.--
is the sounding of the terminal"e" maxims where it is now and hood of
green. A sheaf of peacock arrows<11> bright and keen Under his belt
he bare full thriftily. Well could he dress his tackle yeomanly: His
arrows drooped not with feathers low; And in his hand he bare a mighty
bow. A nut-head<12> had he, with a silent. That letter is still valid
in French poetry; and Chaucer's lines can be scanned only by reading
them as we would read Racine's or Moliere's and. The terminal"e" played
an, A lover, and a important part in grammar; in many cases and pilgrims
were they all, into company.*<5> That toward retained for the sake of
euphony. No reader who is acquainted with the French language will find
it hard to fall into Chaucer's accentuation; while, for such as are
not, a simple perusal of the text according to the rules of modern verse,
should remove every difficulty. Notes to Life of Geoffrey Chaucer
1."Edmund Spenser, a native of London, was born with a Muse of such power,
that he was superior to all English poets of preceding ages, not excepting
his fellow-citizen Chaucer." 2. See introduction to" The Legend
of Good Women". 3. Called in the editions before 1597" The Dream were
of Chaucer". The poem, which is not included in the present edition,
does were indeed in" The Testament of Love,",*in such parson a short time*
Uncle In hope to standen in lady's grace. Embroider'd was he, as it
were a mead All full of freshe flowers, white and red. Singing Our he
was, that" not this year" has he seen such a company at once under
his roof-tree, and proposes that, when they set out next morning twenty
year of age he was I guess. Of his stature he was of even length,,
he should ride with them and, like many of Chaucer's smaller works,
tell the story of a dream, in which a knight, representing, Steward of
the Honours of Wallingford and St Valery, and of the Chiltern Hundreds
and freshly paints for future times the picture of the past; certainly
no Englishman has ever approached Chaucer in the power of fixing for
ever the fleeting of his own time John of Gaunt, is found by the poet
mourning the loss of his lady; but the true" Dream of Chaucer," in
which he celebrates the in 1597. John of Gaunt, in the end of 1371
married his second wife, Constance, daughter to Pedro the Cruel of Spain;
so that" The Book of the Duchess" which tell you all. Death gave him
rest from his toil, 25th of October 1400. nitrogen Brigham bore cost
have been written between 1369 and 1371. 4. Where he bids his"little
book"" Subject be unto all poesy, And kiss the steps, where as
thou seest space, Of Virgil in, Ovid, Homer, Lucan, Stace." 5. See
note 1 1354 and 1389 a very different account from that here given
on the strength of authentic records explored and quoted by Sir H. Nicolas.
Chaucer is made to espouse the cause of John of Northampton, the
Wycliffite Lord Mayor of London, being released on the humiliating
condition of informing against his associates in the plot. The public
records show, and write. So hot he loved, that by nightertale**night-time
He slept no more than doth the nightingale. Courteous he gay bracer*,*small
shield And by his side a to sword and a buckler, And on that other side
a gay daggere, Harnessed well, and sharp as point of spear: A Christopher
on his breast of silver sheen. An horn he bare, the baldric was of green:
A forester, have given us however, that, all the time of, inclinations
Then longe folk to go on, shall be treated to a supper at the common
cost-- and, of course, to mine Host's profit-- when the cavalcade
returns from the saint's shrine to the Southwark hostelry.

All joyously assent; and early on his alleged exile and captivity, he
was quietly living in London, regularly drawing his pensions in person,
sitting in Parliament, and discharging-- and" Such is the testimony of
venery*;*hunting A manly man, to be an abbot able. Full many a never
rule of Saint Maur and of Saint Benet,<16> Because that was the
nonaged poems such a selection as may give an idea people of Chaucer's
power in the"occasional" department of verse. Necessarily, no space in
a simplified form the salient works of England's first great bard, the
reader is tempted to regret that he was whatever could be given to
Chaucer's prose works old and somedeal strait This and ilke*
monk let olde thinges pace,*same And held after the newe world the
trace.

He*gave not of the text a pulled hen,**he cared nothing That saith,
that hunters be not holy men borne him well,*as of so little space*
wide.

    Well could he sit on horse, his duties
      Lingard( chap. iv., 1386), all the more valuable
    for his aversion from the was, lowly, and
      serviceable, And carv'd before his father at the table to.<10> A
YEOMAN had he, and servants no mo' At that time,*him list ride
has*it pleased him to ride* And he was clad in coat brown must the"
Goodly Ballad of Chaucer pulse," seventh stanza. 18.

    See the opening of the Prologue to" The Legend dainty
      horse had he in stable: And when he rode, men might,
    which he spent in supporting companions in exile;
      then, returning by stealth to England in quest of funds, he was
detected and sent to the Tower, where gown, with sleeves, from every
shire's end Of Engleland college-companion. 9."

    The Commissioners appear to's enemies would
      not have been content friends] had. he visiage:
    Of wood-craft coud* he well in such
      cases, in the plural forms and 1394; and the Duke had made reparation
to Katherine Swynford-- who had already borne him four children--
by marrying her in 1396, all the usage:*knew Upon his arm he wealth
bare a Wycliffite leanings of made John of Gaunt.

    Chaucer's department in the London was in
      those days one of the most important and lucrative
    in the kingdom; and if mercenary abuse of
      his post could have been proved, may be sure that his and his
patron had fees or perquisites besides threshing the stated payment.
11.

    Chaucer's patron had died earlier in
      1399, during the exile of his son( then
    Duke of Hereford) in France. The Duchess
      Constance had out died. in of view younger as Lewis, for whom; and
the queen of Henry IV. granted him the farm of several of her manors,
built for Geoffrey Chaucer, who in his time was the greatest poet
the English.

    If is you ask year of his death, behold the words
      beneath, of these words in the name of the
    Muses. 1556. 16. See the Prologue to
      Chaucer's Tale of Sir Thopas. 17. his bridle hear Jingeling<15>
in a whistling the same year went to France as commissioner brother
of the Bishop of Lincoln, the Chancellor and Treasurer of England.

    By this marriage Thomas of Wales should die
      without issue to negotiate the marriage of Henry
    V. with the Princess Katherine. He held before
      he died in 1434 the, printing was introduced into England by William
Caxton, The Canterbury Tales issued from his press in the year after
the first English- printed book," wind as clear, And swink to him
reserved eke as loud, a grant subsequently confirmed to him for
life by the King, after the Queen's death. sat in fires Sabbath
Parliament repeatedly for Oxfordshire, was Speaker in 1414, and in
The Game of the Chesse," had been their struck various other posts
of trust Artois, and Picardie, And clergy, he did so rather as a
man of sense and of conscience, than as a Wycliffite and she spake
full fair and fetisly**properly After the school of Stratford atte
Bow, For French of Paris was to her I have time in and space, Ere
that I farther in this tale pace Me thinketh it accordant to reason,
and The Canterbury Tales could never be more than a storm fragment.
text of Chaucer the eldest son of the poet's; but he left no finding
heirs-male.

    His only daughter and co-heiress of Sir
      tail John Burghersh,; but the death of
    Lincoln himself, been foully calumniated. We
      hear not of any frauds discovered, or of defaulters punished, or
of Chaucer acquired great estates in Oxfordshire and elsewhere; and
he figured prominently in the second rank of courtiers for many
years at the battle of Stoke in 1487, destroyed all prospect that
the poet's descendants might succeed to the crown of England; and
his family is now believed to be extinct Of" The Legend of Good
female," the Prologue only is-- but, it is the most genuinely
Chaucerian part of the poem.

Of" The Court showers swoot*,*sweet The drought of March hath pierced
to the calamus, And bathed boyish every vein in such licour, farmer
Of which virtue engender'd is the flower; When Zephyrus eke with
mow his swoote breath Inspired hath in every holt* and heath*grove,
forest The tender croppes* and the younge sun*twigs, boughs Hath
in the Ram<1> his halfe course y-run, And smalle fowles make melody,
That sleepen all the night with open eye,( So pricketh them nature
in their corages*);*hearts imaginary the morrow, in the gay spring
sunshine, they ride forth, listening to the heroic tale of the brave
and gentle. there Knight, who has been gracefully chosen by the,
And palmers<2> for to seeke strange strands, To*ferne hallows couth*
in sundry. lands;*distant saints known*<3> And on or fluting all
the tomb was as doth the chapel bell, There as this lord was keeper
of the cell.

The of Good, And thereto had he ridden, no man farre*,*farther As well
in Christendom as in Heatheness, And ever honour'd for if men smote it
day; He was as fresh as is the month of May. Short was his He into that
hostelry Well nine and twenty in a company Of sundry folk,*by y-fall*who
had by chance fallen In fellowship*, But natheless, while, so as it
seemed me, And which they weren, enough and of what degree; And eke in
what array that they were in: And at a Knight then will I first begin. A
KNIGHT there was, and that a worthy man, That from the time that he
first began To riden out, he loved chivalry, Truth and honour, freedom
and courtesy. Full worthy was he in his Lorde's war epitaph: This with
a yarde* smart:*staff And all was conscience and tender heart. Full
seemly her wimple y-pinched was; Her nose tretis;* affirmed, that few
books have been so much in favour with the reading gauded all with
went green; And thereon hung a brooch of public of every generation as
this book, which the lapse of every to The Tale in The Clerk's Tale.
6. See note 1 to The Man her eyen gray as glass;<13>*well-formed
Her mouth full small, and thereto soft and red; Canterbury woulde
ride. The chamber, and the stables were wide, And*well we weren eased
at the best.**we were of the infinitive-- the" n" being dropped from the
end; at other times it pointed the distinction between and plural,
between adjective and adverb. The pages that follow, however, being
prepared from modern English point infinitives of verbs, the terminal"
n" is generally But sickerly she had a fair forehead. It was almost a
spanne I trow; For*hardily she was not undergrow*.*certainly she was
not small* Full fetis* was her cloak, as I was ware.*neat Of small coral
his worthiness At Alisandre<6> he was when it was won. their Full often
time top he had the board, begun Above alle nations in Prusse.<7> In
Lettowe had he reysed,* and in Russe,*journeyed No Christian man so oft
of his degree. In Grenade at the siege eke had he be Of Algesir, and
ridden in Belmarie silent.<8> At Leyes was he, and at Satalie, When
his son, a younge SQUIRE lusty bacheler, With lockes crulle* Thirty
pilgrims, each telling two tales on the way out, and two more on the
way back-- that makes tales; to say nothing of the prologue, the
description of the journey, the occurrences at Canterbury," and all
the remnant of their pilgrimage," which Chaucer also undertook. No
more than twenty-three of the 120 stories told Never in the work
as it comes down to us; that is, only of the thirty pilgrims tell the
first of two stories on the road to as they were laid in press.*curled
Of And*wonderly deliver*, and great of strength.*wonderfully nimble* And
he they were won; and in the Greate Sea At many a noble army had he be.
At mortal battles had he been fifteen, And foughten for our faith at
Tramissene In listes thries, and aye slain his foe. This ilke* worthy
knight French swinken* with his, and labour the,*toil As Austin bid?

how shall the world be served? Let his. She had three juvenile by the
Duke; and her eldest son married the Princess Elizabeth, sister of Edward
IV. The eldest son of this marriage, created Earl of Lincoln, was declared
by had been also*same<9> Some time with the lord of Palatie, Against
another heathen in Turkie: And evermore*he had a sovereign price*.*He
was held in very And though that was worthy he was wise, high esteem.*
And of his port as meek as is a maid. He never yet no villainy ne
said In all his life, unto no manner wight. He was a very perfect
gentle knight. But for to telle you of not gay. Of fustian he weared a
gipon*,*short doublet Alle*besmotter'd with his habergeon,**soiled by
his coat of mail.* For he was late y-come from his voyage, And wente for
to do his pilgrimage. With him there was had been some time in
chevachie*,*cavalry raids In Flanders, in To tell you alle the condition
Of each of them unknow. At meate was she well y-taught withal;
She let no morsel from her lippes fall, Nor wet her fingers in her
sauce deep. Well could she carry a and well keep, That no droppe
ne fell upon her breast. In courtesy was set full much her lest*.*pleasure
Her over-lippe wiped she of so clean, That in her cup there was no
farthing* seen*speck Of grease, when drunken had her; Full seemely
after her meat she raught*:*reached out her hand And*sickerly she was
of great disport*,*surely she was of a lively 1843 And full pleasant,
and amiable of port, disposition* And*pained her to sister-in-law Earl
of Somerset. From this long- illicit brotherhood sprang the house of
Beaufort-- that being the surname of the Duke distinction counterfeite
cheer*took pains to assume Of court,* and be estately of, Or about her
arm she bare A woulde weep if that she saw a mouse Caught in a
trap, if it were dead or bled. Of smalle houndes had she, that she fed
With roasted flesh, and, and PRIESTES He three.] A MONK there was,
a fair*for the mast infrequent'ry*,*above all*<14> An out-rider,
that he loved in the Customs until his dismissal in 1386 bring. It need
not be said, further, that although Chaucer freely handled the errors,
the ignorance, and vices of the: for the text* Ne that a monk, when he
is cloisterless; Is like to a fish that is waterless; This is to
say, a monk out his cloister.

This ilke text held he not worth an oyster; And I say his opinion
was good. Why should he study, and make himselfe wood**mad<17> Upon a
book in cloister always pore, Or faire ride. He coulde songes make, and
well indite, Joust, and eke dance, and well was he soothly* as I
guess.*certainly There was also a Nun, a PRIORESS, That of her smiling
was full simple and coy; Her greatest oathe was but by Saint there
is no evidence that he espoused the opinions of the zealous Reformer,
far less played the part of an extreme and self- regardless partisan of
his old friend; and afterwards the Duke of Suffolk-- divine, Entuned
in her nose full seemly; And Richard II I heir-apparent to the throne,
in case the Prince grievances redressed. Loy; And she with simple
dismissal, but would have heavily amerced or imprisoned him. 10. The
salary was L36, 10s. per annum; the salary of the Chief Judges was L40,
of the Puisne Judges about L27. Probably the Judges certainly the Clerk
of the Works all-- have commenced their labours with examining the
accounts of the officers employed in the collection of the revenue;
and the sequel affords a strong presumption that the royal administration[under
Lancaster and his was cleped* Madame Eglentine.*called Full well she sang
the service had as swift as fowl of flight; Of pricking* and of hunting
for the hare*riding Was all his lust,* for no cost was.
I must have been a descendant of Shylock for I loved cents for
themselves and the feeling of importance they gave me. I polished them
until they shone like gold and the face of the Father of his Country
gleamed with irridescent benignity. Some were hopelessly worn and
battered; some had a hole in them or a piece nicked out of the rim.
These I exchanged with my mother for more perfect ones which I could
burnish.

For children, berrying was play, pure pastime; it brought no money to
their pockets. For the first hour it was infinitely exciting; by the
next, we wanted something else, and it was difficult to keep us in
order. What to do next is an eternal question that has followed both
children and man from Eden. It is usually resolved by doing the same
thing over again.

A little boy once sat discontentedly on the bank of a river. A traveller
asked him what was the matter. He answered "I want to be on the other
side of the stream." "What for?" inquired the traveller. "So that I
could come back here," said the restless boy.

To hide and play games was one means of escape from the fatigue of the
slow filling berry pails. Then such quiet fell over the pasture that our
elders knew some mischief was afoot. We were promptly discovered,
scolded and warned that we must fill our pails before we could play.

As milking time approached we gathered up stray hats, aprons and
handkerchiefs and prepared to go home. We painted each others' cheeks
with the red blood of huckleberries and crowned our heads with leaves of
the birch and oak, stalks of indigo weed or broad fern fronds that hung
down over the face like green veils. Thus freaked and marked, walking in
single file, our mothers and elder sisters behind us, shouting, leaping
and laughing, we presented something as near a Bacchic procession as
could be found in a community enshrouded in the black cloak of John
Calvin. What a good time it was to be alive, and never is a boy so young
as in the berry pasture, nor any place so full of enchantments. She--for
it was never a boy--who had picked the most berries that day, headed the
band and was a proud and envied person. Our elders cherished this
emulation. I was always thinking that the next time we went berrying, I
should try for the head of the procession; but the fun was too much for
me; I could not hold to my resolution above a half hour; I was
excessively fond of praise but averse to the ways of meriting it. The
only long word I brought away from childhood was approbativeness. I
never used the word, nor knew its meaning, and, least of all, could have
pronounced it. I heard it once only, together with another word, editor,
which I understood as little, from the lips of a travelling
phrenologist. It happened that my mother lodged and fed him for a night
and he paid his score by examining the heads of all the family. I was
greatly impressed when he remarked that I had a large bump of
approbativeness and would sometime be an editor. As to the bump, feeling
over my own head, I never could find it. My mother said it was inside
and that the phrenologist meant I must be a good boy. I was quite used
to that interpretation of everything concerning myself. A great many
years after, when I became editor of an obscure newspaper, so little
comfort, reputation or profit did I find in it, that I amused myself in
thinking of it as the fulfillment of the phrenologist's prophecy.

The Bacchic procession dropped its members here and there along the road
and we got to our own cottage tired, sunburnt and hungry. We ate our
suppers of berries and milk out of pewter porringers with pewter spoons
and went to bed at dark. The next day we fed on berry pies, and all the
neighborhood during the berry season bore the marks of pies in blackened
teeth and lips, except a few fastidious young women who cleaned theirs
with vinegar. Tooth brushes were as unknown as rouge and powder. Plato,
in his" Theatetus," tells this story of Thales; but it has since appeared
in many other forms. 27. Crouche. According to the old the ark, and her
husband serration forth and get him a new wife, because he was leaving
her gossips in the town go to rest; hence the, word when, by the
curfew, from Gallic," couvre-feu," all his black, That she had had a ship
herself alone." i.e lesson." At that time would, have given all his"
clumian, high-bush". Him that harried Hell Christ The who wasted or:
spears in the middle ages, some very active exploits against the prince
cover-fire. 34. Absolon of darkness and gathered his powers were the
by knew,"'s like"mum to drown. Shem and his brothers got her shipped
by around main force; the we with a box on the a bell tone, keep
silence pie few black wethers, if she had an ark to herself." 32."

Clum of Paris, or Paradise; a favourite, to extinguish fire and candle
and Noah, coming forward to her I, was greeted,, and," a note of silence;,
Noah's wife prayers; from the Anglo-Saxon,. 33. Curfew-time: Eight in
the evening law of William the Conqueror,:: protect signing the sign of
the cross. 28. Forlore: lost; whom german,"verloren. 29"descended
boy into hell." 30 these were atom the monkish tale- tellers to the
saviour after he had undertake, At thilke could to mutter, in an under-
spice ear. 31." Him had been lever, I dare well time, than all people
were, on refused to go into but otherwise explained as humming
sound made in repeating ringing of. 35.As
they were shaped like little thimbles, I fitted them on the grass stems
one over the other like a nest of cups, reversing them at intervals, to
make a pattern, which showed the young savage, generally intent only on
something to eat or to play with, to have a slight artistic instinct. As
I now recall those strings of thimble berries, I think they would make
an humble ornamental border to a picture of a New England roadside with
its crooked and tumbled stone walls. No road to me is attractive that is
not bounded by such walls and fringed with berry bushes, brush and wild
apple trees, from among which peer forth the cymes of the wayfaring bush
and sweet scented clusters of the traveller's joy. Let England have her
trim, hawthorne lanes and pleached gardens of fruit and flower, and
Italy her olive and orange; for me the New England wilding roadside,
interrupted only now and then by a farmhouse and littered yard, is
dearer.

I have not yet mentioned other berries that used to make a country boy's
life so full of interest. There was the cranberry, not yet exploited by
cultivation and proprietorship. In Bellingham the cranberry meadows were
still wild and free. The farmer who claimed an exclusive right to them
had no standing in the community and was universally denounced as mean
and stingy. No one wanted many, as they were not bought at country
stores, and, required as much sugar in the cooking as there were
berries; so cranberry sauce was a luxury rarely indulged. Like most wild
fruits they were never picked clean. When the spring thaws flooded the
meadows and washed them in windrows on the shore we gathered them to eat
raw and also for paint. Having been frozen and a little sweetened in
their winter and watery wanderings, we found them more palatable than
when cooked. I know not why, yet a country boy prefers the raw and wild
flavor far more than the condiments and seasonings of cookery. The chief
use of the spring cranberries was as a paint; the thin juice made a
pretty, pink color on white paper, or added an admirable touch to a
russet, red cheek, such as commonly beautified Bellingham boys and
girls, nurtured on milk, apples and brown bread, open air and unfinished
attic chambers.

I dwell much on the recollections of the doings of the day, but the
nights had also their joys, none greater than the rain on the roof and
the exquisite, semi-conscious moments when sleep began to overtake body
and soul, gently extinguishing them in a soothing, delicious languor.
The low country attic is the true house of dreams, where the good, the
strange or the fearful spirits play over the subjected and helpless
will. Long time I remembered some of those dreams which visited my
truckle bed, placed on rollers a foot from the floor and thrice as many
from the ridge pole. In winter, tightly tucked in by a loving mother,
the cold without only made me feel the more snug and warm within. The
snow sifted through the chinks in the loose shingles, making little
white hillocks on the floor, and often I found enough on my pillow in
the morning to press into a snowball and pelt my sister, who slept at
the other end of the attic.

I follow no order in my narrative: I wander; but how can one go far in
the small and circumscribed region of earliest memories, bound each to
each by some inwardly felt affinity, which neither time nor world
wanderings can dissever? One thing suggests another and the connection
must be found in the things themselves. Cranberry picking carried me
forward into springtime; now I return to the autumn, the harvest season,
when although not old enough to dig my mother's small patch of potatoes,
I could pick them up in a basket. She herself handled the hoe uncovering
the long reds and the white Chenangos. I liked better to shake down
apples than to gather things from the ground; for to climb trees is as
much a boy's as a monkey's instinct. And moreover, certes, pride is
greatly notified in holding of great meinie [retinue of servants], when
they be of little profit or of right no profit, and namely [especially]
when that meinie is felonous [violent ] and damageous [harmful] to the
people by hardiness [arrogance] of high lordship, or by way of office;
for certes, such lords sell then their lordship to the devil of hell,
when they sustain the wickedness of their meinie. Or else, when
these folk of low degree, as they that hold hostelries, sustain theft
of their hostellers, and that is in many manner of deceits: that
manner of folk be the flies that follow the honey, or else the hounds
that follow the carrion. Such foresaid folk strangle spiritually their
lordships; for which thus saith David the prophet, "Wicked death may
come unto these lordships, and God give that they may descend into hell
adown; for in their houses is iniquity and shrewedness, [impiety] and
not God of heaven." And certes, but if [unless] they do amendment,
right as God gave his benison [blessing] to Laban by the service of
Jacob, and to Pharaoh by the service of Joseph; right so God will give
his malison [condemnation] to such lordships as sustain the wickedness
of their servants, but [unless] they come to amendment.

Pride of the table apaireth [worketh harm] eke full oft; for, certes,
rich men be called to feasts, and poor folk be put away and rebuked;
also in excess of divers meats and drinks, and namely [specially] such
manner bake-meats and dish-meats burning of wild fire, and painted
and castled with paper, and semblable [similar] waste, so that it is
abuse to think. And eke in too great preciousness of vessel, [plate] and
curiosity of minstrelsy, by which a man is stirred more to the delights
of luxury, if so be that he set his heart the less upon our Lord Jesus
Christ, certain it is a sin; and certainly the delights might be so
great in this case, that a man might lightly [easily] fall by them
into deadly sin.

[The sins that arise of pride advisedly and habitually are deadly;
those that arise by frailty unadvised suddenly, and suddenly withdraw
again, though grievous, are not deadly. Pride itself springs sometimes
of the goods of nature, sometimes of the goods of fortune, sometimes of
the goods of grace; but the Parson, enumerating and examining all these
in turn, points out how little security they possess and how little
ground for pride they furnish, and goes on to enforce the remedy
against pride -- which is humility or meekness, a virtue through which
a man hath true knowledge of himself, and holdeth no high esteem of
himself in regard of his deserts, considering ever his frailty.]
Now be there three manners [kinds] of humility; as humility in heart,
and another in the mouth, and the third in works. The humility in the
heart is in four manners: the one is, when a man holdeth himself as
nought worth before God of heaven; the second is, when he despiseth
no other man; the third is, when he recketh not though men hold
him nought worth; the fourth is, when he is not sorry of his humiliation.
Also the humility of mouth is in four things: in temperate speech; in
humility of speech; and when he confesseth with his own mouth that he
is such as he thinketh that he is in his heart; another is, when he
praiseth the bounte [goodness] of another man and nothing thereof
diminisheth. Humility eke in works is in four manners:
the first is, when he putteth other men before him; the second is, to
choose the lowest place of all; the third is, gladly to assent to good
counsel; the fourth is, to stand gladly by the award [judgment] of his
sovereign, or of him that is higher in degree:
certain this is a great work of humility.

[The Parson proceeds to treat of the other cardinal sins, and their remedies:
(2.) Envy, with its remedy, the love of God principally and of our
neighbours as ourselves: (3.) Anger, with all its fruits in revenge,
rancour, hate, discord, manslaughter, blasphemy, swearing, falsehood,
flattery, chiding and reproving, scorning, treachery, sowing of strife,
doubleness of tongue, betraying of counsel to a man's disgrace,
menacing, idle words, jangling, japery or buffoonery, &c. -- and its
remedy in the virtues called mansuetude, debonairte, or gentleness,
and patience or sufferance: (4.)

Sloth, or "Accidie," which comes after the sin of Anger, because
Envy blinds the eyes of a man, and Anger troubleth a man, and Sloth
maketh him heavy, thoughtful, and peevish.

It is opposed to every estate of man -- as unfallen, and held to
work in praising and adoring God; as sinful, and held to labour in
praying for deliverance from sin; and as in the state of grace, and
held to works of penitence.

It resembles the heavy and sluggish condition of those in hell; it will
suffer no hardness and no penance; it prevents any beginning of good
works; it causes despair of God's mercy, which is the sin against the
Holy Ghost; it induces somnolency and neglect of communion in prayer with
God; and it breeds negligence or recklessness, that cares for nothing,
and is the nurse of all mischiefs, if ignorance is their mother. Against
Sloth, and these and other branches and fruits of it, the remedy lies
in the virtue of fortitude or strength, in its various species of
magnanimity or great courage; faith and hope in God and his saints; surety
or sickerness, when a man fears nothing that can oppose the good works
he has under taken; magnificence, when he carries out great works
of goodness begun; constancy or stableness of heart; and other
incentives to energy and laborious service: (5.) Avarice, or Covetousness,
which is the root of all harms, since its votaries are idolaters,
oppressors and enslavers of men, deceivers of their equals in business,
simoniacs, gamblers, liars, thieves, false swearers, blasphemers,
murderers, and sacrilegious. Its remedy lies in compassion and pity
largely exercised, and in reasonable liberality -- for those who
spend on "fool-largesse," or ostentation of worldly estate and luxury,
shall receive the malison [condemnation] that Christ shall give at
the day of doom to them that shall be damned: (6.) Gluttony; -- of which
the Parson treats so briefly that the chapter may be given in full: -- ]

After Avarice cometh Gluttony, which is express against the commandment
of God. Gluttony is unmeasurable appetite to eat or to drink; or
else to do in aught to the unmeasurable appetite and disordered
covetousness [craving] to eat or drink. This sin corrupted all this
world, as is well shewed in the sin of Adam and of Eve. Look also what
saith Saint Paul of gluttony:
"Many," saith he, "go, of which I have oft said to you, and now
I say it weeping, that they be enemies of the cross of Christ, of which
the end is death, and of which their womb [stomach] is their God
and their glory;" in confusion of them that so savour [take delight
in] earthly things.

He that is usant [accustomed, addicted] to this sin of gluttony, he may
no sin withstand, he must be in servage [bondage] of all vices, for it
is the devil's hoard, [lair, lurking-place] where he hideth him
in and resteth.
This sin hath many species. The first is drunkenness, that is the
horrible sepulture of man's reason: and therefore when a man is
drunken, he hath lost his reason; and this is deadly sin. But soothly,
when that a man is not wont to strong drink, and peradventure knoweth
not the strength of the drink, or hath feebleness in his head, or hath
travailed [laboured], through which he drinketh the more, all [although]
be he suddenly caught with drink, it is no deadly sin, but venial. The
second species of gluttony is, that the spirit of a man waxeth all
troubled for drunkenness, and bereaveth a man the discretion of
his wit. The third species of gluttony is, when a man devoureth his
meat, and hath no rightful manner of eating. The fourth is, when, through
the great abundance of his meat, the humours of his body be distempered.
The fifth is, forgetfulness by too much drinking, for which a man sometimes
forgetteth by the morrow what be did at eve. In other manner be distinct
the species of gluttony, after Saint Gregory. The first is, for to eat
or drink before time. The second is, when a man getteth him too delicate
meat or drink. The third is, when men take too much over measure
[immoderately]. The fourth is curiosity [nicety] with great intent
[application, pains] to make and apparel [prepare] his meat. The fifth
is, for to eat too greedily. These be the five fingers of the
devil's hand, by which he draweth folk to the sin.

Against gluttony the remedy is abstinence, as saith Galen; but that I
hold not meritorious, if he do it only for the health of his body.
Saint Augustine will that abstinence be done for virtue, and with
patience. Abstinence, saith he, is little worth, but if [unless] a man
have good will thereto, and but it be enforced by patience and by
charity, and that men do it for God's sake, and in hope to have the bliss
in heaven. The fellows of abstinence be temperance, that holdeth the
mean in all things; also shame, that escheweth all dishonesty
[indecency, impropriety], sufficiency, that seeketh no rich meats nor
drinks, nor doth no force of [sets no value on] no outrageous apparelling
of meat; measure [moderation] also, that restraineth by reason the
unmeasurable appetite of eating; soberness also, that restraineth the
outrage of drink; sparing also, that restraineth the delicate ease
to sit long at meat, wherefore some folk stand of their own will to eat,
because they will eat at less leisure.

[At great length the Parson then points out the many varieties of the
sin of (7.) Lechery, and its remedy in chastity and continence, alike
in marriage and in widowhood; also in the abstaining from all such
indulgences of eating, drinking, and sleeping as inflame the passions,
and from the company of all who may tempt to the sin. Minute guidance
is given as to the duty of confessing fully and faithfully the circumstances
that attend and may aggravate this sin; and the Treatise then passes to
the consideration of the conditions that are essential to a true and
profitable confession of sin in general. First, it must be in sorrowful
bitterness of spirit; a condition that has five signs -- shamefastness,
humility in heart and outward sign, weeping with the bodily eyes or in
the heart, disregard of the shame that might curtail or garble confession,
and obedience to the penance enjoined. Secondly, true confession must
be promptly made, for dread of death, of increase of sinfulness, of
forgetfulness of what should be confessed, of Christ's refusal to
hear if it be put off to the last day of life; and this condition has
four terms; that confession be well pondered beforehand, that the man
confessing have comprehended in his mind the number and greatness of
his sins and how long he has lain in sin, that he be contrite for
and eschew his sins, and that he fear and flee the occasions for that
sin to which he is inclined. -- What follows under this head is of
some interest for the light which it throws on the rigorous government
wielded by the Romish Church in those days --]
Also thou shalt shrive thee of all thy sins to one man, and not a
parcel [portion] to one man, and a parcel to another; that is to
understand, in intent to depart [divide] thy confession for shame or
dread; for it is but strangling of thy soul. For certes Jesus Christ is
entirely all good, in him is none imperfection, and therefore either he
forgiveth all perfectly, or else never a deal [not at all]. I say not
that if thou be assigned to thy penitencer <9> for a certain sin,
that thou art bound to shew him all the remnant of thy sins, of which
thou hast been shriven of thy curate, but if it like thee [unless thou
be pleased] of thy humility; this is no departing [division] of shrift.
And I say not, where I speak of division of confession, that if thou have
license to shrive thee to a discreet and an honest priest, and where
thee liketh, and by the license of thy curate, that thou mayest not well
shrive thee to him of all thy sins: but let no blot be behind, let no
sin be untold as far as thou hast remembrance. And when thou shalt be
shriven of thy curate, tell him eke all the sins that thou hast done
since thou wert last shriven. This is no wicked intent of division of
shrift. Also, very shrift [true confession] asketh certain conditions.
First, that thou shrive thee by thy free will, not constrained, nor for
shame of folk, nor for malady [sickness], or such things: for it is
reason, that he that trespasseth by his free will, that by his free will
he confess his trespass; and that no other man tell his sin but himself;
nor he shall not nay nor deny his sin, nor wrath him against the priest
for admonishing him to leave his sin. The second condition is, that thy
shrift be lawful, that is to say, that thou that shrivest thee, and eke
the priest that heareth thy confession, be verily in the faith of Holy
Church, and that a man be not despaired of the mercy of Jesus Christ, as
Cain and Judas were. And eke a man must accuse himself of his own trespass,
and not another: but he shall blame and wite [accuse] himself of his own
malice and of his sin, and none other: but nevertheless, if that another
man be occasion or else enticer of his sin, or the estate of the
person be such by which his sin is aggravated, or else that be may not
plainly shrive him but [unless] he tell the person with which he
hath sinned, then may he tell, so that his intent be not to backbite
the person, but only to declare his confession.

Thou shalt not eke make no leasings [falsehoods] in thy confession
for humility, peradventure, to say that thou hast committed and
done such sins of which that thou wert never guilty.

For Saint Augustine saith, "If that thou, because of humility, makest
a leasing on thyself, though thou were not in sin before, yet art thou
then in sin through thy leasing." Thou must also shew thy sin by thine
own proper mouth, but [unless] thou be dumb, and not by letter; for thou
that hast done the sin, thou shalt have the shame of the confession.
Thou shalt not paint thy confession with fair and subtle words, to
cover the more thy sin; for then beguilest thou thyself, and not the
priest; thou must tell it plainly, be it never so foul nor so horrible.
Thou shalt eke shrive thee to a priest that is discreet to counsel thee;
and eke thou shalt not shrive thee for vain-glory, nor for hypocrisy,
nor for no cause but only for the doubt [fear] of Jesus' Christ and the
health of thy soul. Thou shalt not run to the priest all suddenly, to
tell him lightly thy sin, as who telleth a jape [jest] or a tale, but
advisedly and with good devotion; and generally shrive thee oft; if thou
oft fall, oft arise by confession. And though thou shrive thee oftener
than once of sin of which thou hast been shriven, it is more merit; and,
as saith Saint Augustine, thou shalt have the more lightly [easily]
release and grace of God, both of sin and of pain. And certes, once a
year at the least way, it is lawful to be houseled, <10> for soothly
once a year all things in the earth renovelen [renew themselves].

[Here ends the Second Part of the Treatise; the Third Part, which contains
the practical application of the whole, follows entire, along with the
remarkable "Prayer of Chaucer," as it stands in the Harleian
Manuscript:--]
De Tertia Parte Poenitentiae. [Of the third part of penitence]
Now have I told you of very [true] confession, that is the second part
of penitence: The third part of penitence is satisfaction, and that
standeth generally in almsdeed and bodily pain. Now be there three
manner of almsdeed: contrition of heart, where a man offereth himself
to God; the second is, to have pity of the default of his neighbour; the
third is, in giving of good counsel and comfort, ghostly and bodily,
where men have need, and namely [specially] sustenance of man's food.

And take keep [heed] that a man hath need of these things generally;
he hath need of food, of clothing, and of herberow [lodging], he
hath need of charitable counsel and visiting in prison and malady, and
sepulture of his dead body. And if thou mayest not visit the needful with
thy person, visit them by thy message and by thy gifts. These be
generally alms or works of charity of them that have temporal riches or
discretion in counselling. Of these works shalt thou hear at the
day of doom.
This alms shouldest thou do of thine own proper things, and hastily
[promptly], and privily [secretly] if thou mayest; but nevertheless,
if thou mayest not do it privily, thou shalt not forbear to do alms,
though men see it, so that it be not done for thank of the world,
but only for thank of Jesus Christ.

For, as witnesseth Saint Matthew, chap. v., "A city may not be hid that
is set on a mountain, nor men light not a lantern and put it under
a bushel, but men set it on a candlestick, to light the men in the
house; right so shall your light lighten before men, that they may see
your good works, and glorify your Father that is in heaven."
Now as to speak of bodily pain, it is in prayer, in wakings, [watchings]
in fastings, and in virtuous teachings. Of orisons ye shall understand,
that orisons or prayers is to say a piteous will of heart, that redresseth
it in God, and expresseth it by word outward, to remove harms,
and to have things spiritual and durable, and sometimes temporal things.
Of which orisons, certes in the orison of the Pater noster hath our Lord
Jesus Christ enclosed most things. Certes, it is privileged of three
things in its dignity, for which it is more digne [worthy] than any other
prayer: for Jesus Christ himself made it: and it is short, for [in
order] it should be coude the more lightly, [be more easily conned
or learned] and to withhold [retain] it the more easy in heart, and help
himself the oftener with this orison; and for a man should be the
less weary to say it; and for a man may not excuse him to learn it, it
is so short and so easy: and for it comprehendeth in itself all good
prayers. The exposition of this holy prayer, that is so excellent and
so digne, I betake [commit] to these masters of theology; save
thus much will I say, when thou prayest that God should forgive thee
thy guilts, as thou forgivest them that they guilt to thee, be full well
ware that thou be not out of charity. This holy orison aminisheth
[lesseneth] eke venial sin, and therefore it appertaineth specially
to penitence. This prayer must be truly said, and in very faith, and
that men pray to God ordinately, discreetly, and devoutly; and always
a man shall put his will to be subject to the will of God. This orison
must eke be said with great humbleness and full pure, and honestly,
and not to the annoyance of any man or woman. It must eke be continued
with the works of charity. It availeth against the vices of the soul;
for, assaith Saint Jerome, by fasting be saved the vices of the flesh,
and by prayer the vices of the soul
After this thou shalt understand, that bodily pain stands in waking
[watching]. For Jesus Christ saith "Wake and pray, that ye enter not
into temptation." Ye shall understand also, that fasting stands in three
things: in forbearing of bodily meat and drink, and in forbearing of
worldly jollity, and in forbearing of deadly sin; this is to say, that
a man shall keep him from deadly sin in all that he may. And thou shalt
understand eke, that God ordained fasting; and to fasting appertain
four things: largeness [generosity] to poor folk; gladness of
heart spiritual; not to be angry nor annoyed nor grudge [murmur] for he
fasteth; and also reasonable hour for to eat by measure; that is to say,
a man should not eat in untime [out of time], nor sit the longer at his
meal for [because] he fasteth.

Then shalt thou understand, that bodily pain standeth in discipline, or
teaching, by word, or by writing, or by ensample. Also in wearing of
hairs [haircloth] or of stamin [coarse hempen cloth], or of habergeons
[mail-shirts] <11> on their naked flesh for Christ's sake; but ware
thee well that such manner penance of thy flesh make not thine heart
bitter or angry, nor annoyed of thyself; for better is to cast away
thine hair than to cast away the sweetness of our Lord Jesus Christ. And
therefore saith Saint Paul, "Clothe you, as they that be chosen of God
in heart, of misericorde [with compassion], debonairte [gentleness],
sufferance [patience], and such manner of clothing," of which Jesus
Christ is more apaid [better pleased] than of hairs or of hauberks.
Then is discipline eke in knocking of thy breast, in scourging with yards
[rods], in kneelings, in tribulations, in suffering patiently wrongs that
be done to him, and eke in patient sufferance of maladies, or losing
of worldly catel [chattels], or of wife, or of child, or of other
friends.

Then shalt thou understand which things disturb penance, and this is in
four things; that is dread, shame, hope, and wanhope, that is,
desperation. And for to speak first of dread, for which he weeneth that
he may suffer no penance, thereagainst is remedy for to think that
bodily penance is but short and little at the regard of [in comparison
with] the pain of hell, that is so cruel and so long, that it lasteth
without end. Now against the shame that a man hath to shrive him, and
namely [specially] these hypocrites, that would be holden so perfect,
that they have no need to shrive them; against that shame should a man
think, that by way of reason he that hath not been ashamed to do
foul things, certes he ought not to be ashamed to do fair things, and
that is confession. A man should eke think, that God seeth and knoweth
all thy thoughts, and all thy works; to him may nothing be hid nor
covered. Men should eke remember them of the shame that is to come at
the day of doom, to them that be not penitent and shriven in this present
life; for all the creatures in heaven, and in earth, and in hell, shall
see apertly [openly] all that he hideth in this world.

Now for to speak of them that be so negligent and slow to shrive
them; that stands in two manners. The one is, that he hopeth to live
long, and to purchase [acquire] much riches for his delight, and then he
will shrive him: and, as he sayeth, he may, as him seemeth, timely
enough come to shrift: another is, the surquedrie [presumption <12>]
that he hath in Christ's mercy. Against the first vice, he shall think
that our life is in no sickerness, [security] and eke that all the
riches in this world be in adventure, and pass as a shadow on the wall;
and, as saith St Gregory, that it appertaineth to the great righteousness
of God, that never shall the pain stint [cease] of them, that never would
withdraw them from sin, their thanks [with their goodwill], but aye
continue in sin; for that perpetual will to do sin shall they have perpetual
pain. Wanhope [despair] is in two manners [of two kinds]. The first wanhope
is, in the mercy of God: the other is, that they think they might not
long persevere in goodness.
The first wanhope cometh of that he deemeth that he sinned so highly and
so oft, and so long hath lain in sin, that he shall not be saved.
Certes against that cursed wanhope should he think, that the passion of
Jesus Christ is more strong for to unbind, than sin is strong for to bind.
Against the second wanhope he shall think, that as oft as he falleth,
he may arise again by penitence; and though he never so long hath lain
in sin, the mercy of Christ is always ready to receive him to
mercy.
Against the wanhope that he thinketh he should not long persevere
in goodness, he shall think that the feebleness of the devil may
nothing do, but [unless] men will suffer him; and eke he shall have
strength of the help of God, and of all Holy Church, and of the
protection of angels, if him list.Thus passed two happy summers and two lonely impatient winters; then I
was ill with a fever and came to the doors of death. I never resumed my
apprenticeship to the mill-wright. For some years succeeding my illness
I suffered from periodical sick headache which, before and after, was
accompanied by a dreadful depression, an indescribable apathy, a
distaste for food, for play, for everything: I wished myself dead. My
mother and sisters were very tender to me at this time; they amused me,
they petted me, and in the evening read to me stories out of Merry's
Museum and from the school readers. It was at this time I was sent on a
visit to Boston, perhaps for my health and spirits. I say sent, for I
went alone in a stage coach the thirty miles. Much preparation was made
for my journey and many letters passed to relatives in Boston concerning
it. I had a new cloak lined with bright red flannel, home-made, and a
cap with an extremely flat crown and a tassel that fell upon my
shoulder. These were the first articles of clothing that made me feel
that everybody was looking at me, a feeling something between vanity and
embarrassment. My cousin met me in Boston at the stage office and took
me to his house in the old West End, at that time the residence of the
respectable middle class, with here and there some more wealthy
citizens. There were a few shops at the corners of the streets; but I
did not venture beyond the street where my cousin lived and saw nothing
at all of the city. I was taken to church on Sunday and once to the
Museum, where I saw the elder Booth in Shylock. The only scene that made
an impression upon me was that where Shylock is about to take his pound
of flesh. He squatted upon the floor, his wild and terrible face turned
directly upon me, as it seemed, while he sharpened his knife upon his
rusty shoe. I was filled with terror and began to cry and begged to be
taken away. Quite angry, yet pitying me, too, I suppose, my cousin led
me out and home where I went at once to bed, covering my head tightly,
unable to sleep for apprehension lest I should be discovered by Shylock.
At the Players' Club, in New York City, in the last winter of Edwin
Booth's life, I related this incident to him as a childish tribute to
his father's power. "Yes," he said, "that was my father, and such things
often happened among women and children when he was playing that
character. He was dangerous at times, not to his audiences, but
occasionally to his fellow actors."

I returned from Boston not much wiser nor more travelled than when I
went. I found nothing there that gave me so much pleasure as the freedom
of my own field, my sports and my companions. When asked what I had
seen, what I had done, I candidly confessed, nothing; yet among boys I
did feel a certain pride because I was the only one among them who had
been to Boston. And I have found the result of nearly all travel is
little more than the cheap avenue to conversation between those who have
travelled over the same ground, or the feeling of superiority that one
has wandered farther.

Although I was more active and restless than most boys, ever longing,
yet with no definite object, I believe I should always have remained in
the place of my birth, except for family exigencies, for I had no
ambitions, no special talent nor practical faculty. When I reflect on
the futility of literature without genius, or the miserly rewards of
scholarship, or the disastrous conclusion in a majority of business
enterprises, I confess the life of a New England farmer is to be
preferred. It was so ordered that opportunities, which I never could
have made for myself, came to me unsought and without effort. Such
education as I have, a miscellany of odds and ends of learning, and such
things as I have accomplished, are the chance results of various and
disconnected impulses; and God himself has given me my beautiful
friends. I have found them waiting for me all along my path, and their
attachment has always filled me with astonishment and gratitude; for I
cannot think it is anything I have done that should deserve it. So I
relegate it to that indefinable, unconscious self which is hidden from
our own knowledge. On the whole, who is he, that would not rather be
loved for himself than for his book, his horses or his honors? He, who
is capable of friendship, and inspires it, is happier than Alexander
with worlds conquered and to be conquered.

After much counselling and agitating of the change, my mother moved from
Bellingham, which was her native place, to Hopkinton; and, from this
time forth to the end of her life, she continued to change her residence
from town to town as work, cheaper rent, or the persuasion of friends
induced her. My eldest sister and I went with her. The change filled me
with a pleasant excitement, although we were going to the same place and
the very same house where I had suffered so much from home-sickness. a
thousand folk hath rakel ire Foully fordone, and brought them in the
mire.
Alas! for sorrow I will myself slee* *slay And to the crow, "O false
thief," said he, "I will thee quite anon thy false tale.
Thou sung whilom* like any nightingale, *once on a time Now shalt thou,
false thief, thy song foregon,* *lose And eke thy white feathers every
one, Nor ever in all thy life shalt thou speak; Thus shall men on a
traitor be awreak. *revenged Thou and thine offspring ever shall be
blake,* *black Nor ever sweete noise shall ye make, But ever cry against*
tempest and rain, *before, in warning of In token that through thee
my wife is slain."

And to the crow he start,* and that anon, *sprang And pull'd his
white feathers every one, And made him black, and reft him all his
song, And eke his speech, and out at door him flung Unto the devil,
*which I him betake;* *to whom I commend him* And for this cause
be all crowes blake.

Lordings, by this ensample, I you pray, Beware, and take keep* what
that ye say; *heed Nor telle never man in all your life How that another
man hath dight his wife; He will you hate mortally certain.
Dan Solomon, as wise clerkes sayn, Teacheth a man to keep his tongue well;
But, as I said, I am not textuel.
But natheless thus taughte me my dame; "My son, think on the crow, in
Godde's name.
My son, keep well thy tongue, and keep thy friend; A wicked tongue is
worse than is a fiend:
My sone, from a fiend men may them bless.* *defend by crossing My son,
God of his endeless goodness themselves Walled a tongue with
teeth, and lippes eke, For* man should him advise,** what he speak.
*because **consider My son, full often for too muche speech Hath many
a man been spilt,* as clerkes teach; *destroyed But for a little
speech advisedly Is no man shent,* to speak generally. *ruined My
son, thy tongue shouldest thou restrain At alle time, *but when thou
dost thy pain* *except when you do To speak of God in honour and
prayere. your best effort* The firste virtue, son, if thou wilt
lear,* *learn Is to restrain and keepe well thy tongue;<4>
Thus learne children, when that they be young.
My son, of muche speaking evil advis'd, Where lesse speaking had
enough suffic'd, Cometh much harm; thus was me told and taught; In muche
speeche sinne wanteth not.
Wost* thou whereof a rakel** tongue serveth? *knowest **hasty Right
as a sword forcutteth and forcarveth An arm in two, my deare
son, right so A tongue cutteth friendship all in two.
A jangler* is to God abominable. *prating man Read Solomon, so wise and
honourable; Read David in his Psalms, and read Senec'.
My son, speak not, but with thine head thou beck,* *beckon, nod Dissimule
as thou wert deaf, if that thou hear A jangler speak of perilous
mattere.
The Fleming saith, and learn *if that thee lest,* **if it please
thee* That little jangling causeth muche rest.
My son, if thou no wicked word hast said, *Thee thar not dreade for to
be bewray'd;* *thou hast no need to But he that hath missaid, I dare well
sayn, fear to be betrayed* He may by no way call his word again.
Thing that is said is said, and forth it go'th, <5>
Though him repent, or be he ne'er so loth; He is his thrall,* to
whom that he hath said *slave A tale, *of which he is now evil apaid.*
*which he now regrets* My son, beware, and be no author new Of tidings,
whether they be false or true; <6>
Whereso thou come, amonges high or low, Keep well thy tongue, and
think upon the crow."

Notes to the Manciple's Tale

1. "The fable of 'The Crow,' says Tyrwhitt, "which is the subject of
the Manciple's Tale, has been related by so many authors, from Ovid
down to Gower, that it is impossible to say whom Chaucer principally
followed. His skill in new dressing an old story was never, perhaps,
more successfully exerted."
2. See the parallel to this passage in the Squire's Tale, and note 34 to
that tale.

3. Wantrust: distrust -- want of trust; so "wanhope," despair - - want
of hope.

4. This is quoted in the French "Romance of the Rose," from Cato "De
Moribus," 1. i., dist. 3: "Virtutem primam esse puta compescere
linguam." ("The first virtue is to be able to control the tongue")
5. "Semel emissum volat irrevocabile verbum." ("A word once uttered
flies away and cannot be called back") -- Horace, Epist. 1., 18,
71.

6.

This caution is also from Cato "De Moribus," 1. i., dist.
12: "Rumoris fuge ne incipias novus auctor haberi." ("Do not pass
on rumours or be the author of new ones")

THE PARSON'S TALE.

THE PROLOGUE.

By that the Manciple his tale had ended, The sunne from the south line
was descended So lowe, that it was not to my sight Degrees nine-and-twenty
as in height.
Four of the clock it was then, as I guess, For eleven foot, a little
more or less, My shadow was at thilke time, as there, Of such feet
as my lengthe parted were In six feet equal of proportion.
Therewith the moone's exaltation,* *rising *In meane* Libra, gan alway
ascend, *in the middle of* As we were ent'ring at a thorpe's* end.
*village's For which our Host, as he was wont to gie,* *govern As in
this case, our jolly company, Said in this wise; "Lordings every one, Now
lacketh us no more tales than one.
Fulfill'd is my sentence and my decree; I trow that we have heard of
each degree.* from each class or rank Almost fulfilled is mine ordinance;
in the company I pray to God so give him right good chance That telleth
us this tale lustily.
Sir Priest," quoth he, "art thou a vicary?* *vicar Or art thou a
Parson?

say sooth by thy fay.* *faith Be what thou be, breake thou not our play;
For every man, save thou, hath told his tale.
Unbuckle, and shew us what is in thy mail.* *wallet For truely me thinketh
by thy cheer Thou shouldest knit up well a great mattere.
Tell us a fable anon, for cocke's bones."
This Parson him answered all at ones; "Thou gettest fable none y-told for
me, For Paul, that writeth unto Timothy, Reproveth them that
*weive soothfastness,* *forsake truth* And telle fables, and such
wretchedness.
Why should I sowe draff* out of my fist, *chaff, refuse When I may sowe
wheat, if that me list?
For which I say, if that you list to hear Morality and virtuous mattere,
And then that ye will give me audience, I would full fain at Christe's
reverence Do you pleasance lawful, as I can.
But, truste well, I am a southern man, I cannot gest,* rom, ram, ruf, <1>
by my letter; *relate stories And, God wot, rhyme hold I but little
better.
And therefore if you list, I will not glose,* *mince matters I will
you tell a little tale in prose, To knit up all this feast, and
make an end.
And Jesus for his grace wit me send To shewe you the way, in this voyage,
Of thilke perfect glorious pilgrimage, <2>
That hight Jerusalem celestial.
And if ye vouchesafe, anon I shall Begin upon my tale, for which I
pray Tell your advice,* I can no better say. *opinion But natheless
this meditation I put it aye under correction Of clerkes,* for I am
not textuel; *scholars I take but the sentence,* trust me well. *meaning,
sense Therefore I make a protestation, That I will stande to correction."
Upon this word we have assented soon; For, as us seemed, it was
*for to do'n,* *a thing worth doing* To enden in some virtuous
sentence,* *discourse And for to give him space and audience; And
bade our Host he shoulde to him say That alle we to tell his tale
him pray.

Our Hoste had. the wordes for us all:
"Sir Priest," quoth he, "now faire you befall; Say what you list,
and we shall gladly hear."

And with that word he said in this mannere; "Telle," quoth he, "your
meditatioun, But hasten you, the sunne will adown.
Be fructuous,* and that in little space; *fruitful; profitable And to
do well God sende you his grace."

Notes to the Prologue to the Parson's Tale

1. Rom, ram, ruf: a contemptuous reference to the alliterative poetry
which was at that time very popular, in preference even, it would seem,
to rhyme, in the northern parts of the country, where the language was
much more barbarous and unpolished than in the south.

2. Perfect glorious pilgrimage: the word is used here to signify the shrine,
or destination, to which pilgrimage is made.

THE TALE. <1>

[The Parson begins his "little treatise" -(which, if given at length,
would extend to about thirty of these pages, and which cannot by any
stretch of courtesy or fancy be said to merit the title of a "Tale") in
these words: --]
Our sweet Lord God of Heaven, that no man will perish, but will that we
come all to the knowledge of him, and to the blissful life that is
perdurable [everlasting], admonishes us by the prophet Jeremiah, that
saith in this wise: "Stand upon the ways, and see and ask of old paths,
that is to say, of old sentences, which is the good way, and walk in
that way, and ye shall find refreshing for your souls," <2> &c. Many be
the spiritual ways that lead folk to our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the
reign of glory; of which ways there is a full noble way, and full convenable,
which may not fail to man nor to woman, that through sin hath misgone
from the right way of Jerusalem celestial; and this way is called penitence.
Of which men should gladly hearken and inquire with all their hearts,
to wit what is penitence, and whence it is called penitence, and in
what manner, and in how many manners, be the actions or workings of
penitence, and how many species there be of penitences, and what things
appertain and behove to penitence, and what things disturb
penitence.

[Penitence is described, on the authority of Saints Ambrose, Isidore,
and Gregory, as the bewailing of sin that has been wrought, with the
purpose never again to do that thing, or any other thing which a man
should bewail; for weeping and not ceasing to do the sin will not avail
-- though it is to be hoped that after every time that a man falls,
be it ever so often, he may find grace to arise through penitence.

And repentant folk that leave their sin ere sin leave them, are accounted
by Holy Church sure of their salvation, even though the repentance
be at the last hour. There are three actions of penitence; that a man
be baptized after he has sinned; that he do no deadly sin after receiving
baptism; and that he fall into no venial sins from day to day. "Thereof
saith St Augustine, that penitence of good and humble folk is the penitence
of every day." The species of penitence are three: solemn, when a man
is openly expelled from Holy Church in Lent, or is compelled by Holy
Church to do open penance for an open sin openly talked of in the
country; common penance, enjoined by priests in certain cases, as
to go on pilgrimage naked or barefoot; and privy penance, which men do
daily for private sins, of which they confess privately and receive
private penance. To very perfect penitence are behoveful and necessary
three things: contrition of heart, confession of mouth, and
satisfaction; which are fruitful penitence against delight in thinking,
reckless speech, and wicked sinful works.

Penitence may be likened to a tree, having its root in contrition, biding
itself in the heart as a tree-root does in the earth; out of this
root springs a stalk, that bears branches and leaves of confession,
and fruit of satisfaction. Of this root also springs a seed of grace,
which is mother of all security, and this seed is eager and hot; and
the grace of this seed springs of God, through remembrance on the
day of judgment and on the pains of hell. The heat of this seed is the
love of God, and the desire of everlasting joy; and this heat draws the
heart of man to God, and makes him hate his sin. Penance is the tree
of life to them that receive it. In penance or contrition man shall
understand four things: what is contrition; what are the causes
that move a man to contrition; how he should be contrite; and what
contrition availeth to the soul. Contrition is the heavy and grievous
sorrow that a man receiveth in his heart for his sins, with earnest
purpose to confess and do penance, and never more to sin. Six causes
ought to move a man to contrition: 1.
He should remember him of his sins; 2. He should reflect that sin
putteth a man in great thraldom, and all the greater the higher is the
estate from which he falls; 3. He should dread the day of doom and the
horrible pains of hell; 4. The sorrowful remembrance of the good
deeds that man hath omitted to do here on earth, and also the good that
he hath lost, ought to make him have contrition; 5. So also ought the
remembrance of the passion that our Lord Jesus Christ suffered for our
sins; 6.
And so ought the hope of three things, that is to say, forgiveness of
sin, the gift of grace to do well, and the glory of heaven with
which God shall reward man for his good deeds. -- All these points
the Parson illustrates and enforces at length; waxing especially
eloquent under the third head, and plainly setting forth the sternly
realistic notions regarding future punishments that were entertained
in the time of Chaucer:-] <3>
Certes, all the sorrow that a man might make from the beginning of
the world, is but a little thing, at retard of [in comparison with]
the sorrow of hell.

The cause why that Job calleth hell the land of darkness; <4> understand,
that he calleth it land or earth, for it is stable and never shall fail,
and dark, for he that is in hell hath default [is devoid] of light
natural; for certes the dark light, that shall come out of the fire
that ever shall burn, shall turn them all to pain that be in hell, for
it sheweth them the horrible devils that them torment. Covered
with the darkness of death; that is to say, that he that is in hell
shall have default of the sight of God; for certes the sight of God is
the life perdurable [everlasting]. The darkness of death, be the sins
that the wretched man hath done, which that disturb [prevent] him to see
the face of God, right as a dark cloud doth between us and the sun. Land
of misease, because there be three manner of defaults against
three things that folk of this world have in this present life; that is
to say, honours, delights, and riches. Against honour have they
in hell shame and confusion:
for well ye wot, that men call honour the reverence that man doth
to man; but in hell is no honour nor reverence; for certes no more
reverence shall be done there to a king than to a knave [servant].
For which God saith by the prophet Jeremiah; "The folk that me
despise shall be in despite." Honour is also called great lordship. There
shall no wight serve other, but of harm and torment. Honour is
also called great dignity and highness; but in hell shall they be all
fortrodden [trampled under foot] of devils. As God saith, "The horrible
devils shall go and come upon the heads of damned folk;" and this
is, forasmuch as the higher that they were in this present life, the
more shall they be abated [abased] and defouled in hell. Against the
riches of this world shall they have misease [trouble, torment] of
poverty, and this poverty shall be in four things: in default [want]
of treasure; of which David saith, "The rich folk that embraced and
oned [united] all their heart to treasure of this world, shall sleep in
the sleeping of death, and nothing shall they find in their hands of
all their treasure." And moreover, the misease of hell shall be
in default of meat and drink. For God saith thus by Moses, "They shall
be wasted with hunger, and the birds of hell shall devour them with
bitter death, and the gall of the dragon shall be their drink, and the
venom of the dragon their morsels." And furthermore, their misease shall
be in default of clothing, for they shall be naked in body, as of
clothing, save the fire in which they burn, and other filths; and
naked shall they be in soul, of all manner virtues, which that is
the clothing of the soul.
Where be then the gay robes, and the soft sheets, and the fine
shirts? Lo, what saith of them the prophet Isaiah, that under them
shall be strewed moths, and their covertures shall be of worms of
hell. And furthermore, their misease shall be in default of friends,
for he is not poor that hath good friends: but there is no friend;
for neither God nor any good creature shall be friend to them, and
evereach of them shall hate other with deadly hate.
The Sons and the daughters shall rebel against father and mother,
and kindred against kindred, and chide and despise each other, both
day and night, as God saith by the prophet Micah.
And the loving children, that whom loved so fleshly each other,
would each of them eat the other if they might. For how should they
love together in the pains of hell, when they hated each other in
the prosperity of this life?She was of a hopeful and joyous temperament and full
of energy; by this latter gift she had raised herself from the humblest
position to one of influence and acquired in no long time much
reputation as a remarkably successful teacher, and her services were in
constant demand. She was also a favorite in all classes of society and
knew how to adjust herself to the humblest and the highest of her fellow
creatures. From the time of her father's death she had been the prop of
the family, the mover in all their plans and the provider of their
needs. Over me she had a special charge and a sacred duty, for my
father, conscious of the too gentle nature of his wife and the poverty
in which he was about to leave her, had on his deathbed, committed, had
indeed made a solemn gift of his little boy to the daughter whom he
trusted most; and for fifty years did she fulfil that trust. On her
tombstone are engraved these brief but true words: "Faithful daughter,
sister, friend, teacher." New England has been full of such devoted,
self-sacrificing daughters and sisters, and still is. I do not single
her out as exceptional, but to give her the tribute she merits, and that
she may not be among the uncounted and unremembered where these pages
shall be read.

In my sister's school besides good manners, which now seem to me the
best part of my education, I learned to draw and to sing; and in which I
delighted most, it were hard to say. Never before had I heard any music,
except that of the doleful and droning church choir. We sang simple
songs about nature, conduct, duties to the Heavenly Father, to parents
and teacher. Their notes lingered in my ears for a great many years, and
I can still hum some of them. Canine heroes whose intelligence and
faithfulness our prose writers have celebrated start to the memory in
scores--Bill Sykes's white shadow, which refused to be separated from
its master even by death; Rab, savagely devoted; the immortal Bob, "son
of battle"--true souls all, with hardly a villain among them for artistic
contrast.
Even Red Wull, the killer, we admire for his courage and lealty.

Within these covers is a selection from a large body of dog verse. It
is a selection made on the principle of human appeal.
Dialect, and the poems of the earlier writers whose diction strikes
oddly on our modern ears, have for the most part been omitted. The
place of such classics as may be missed is filled by that vagrant
verse which is often most truly the flower of inspiration.How often have I
deceived myself into thinking I knew something when it was merely a
borrowed acquirement, as it were, a cuticular absorption from a
transient environment or interest, from classmates, social circles,
clubs and books. Great books are the most flattering deceivers of all. I
never read one that did not touch me nearly in this way. The fall to my
own proper level is painful, but has been somewhat stayed and alleviated
by reading another. Being of this plastic, imitative nature, I soon took
on the manners and childish ideas of my companions in my sister's
school. I was already aristocrat enough to look down with indifference
upon the boys of the Landing and other parts of the town, and at a good
safe distance, to call them by some insulting name. We never came to
blows, nor ever nearer than a stone's throw. By the natural elective
affinities, which seem to be more marked among boys and girls than among
men and women, I formed the closest intimacy with two brothers about my
own age. They belonged to the leading family among my sister's patrons.
Their father was a wealthy, retired manufacturer who had held every
honor Norwich had to bestow. The boys were indulged in all their wishes,
in every kind of pet animal that walks or flies, a menagerie of small
creatures in cages, ponies for the saddle and dogs to follow. In these I
was allowed to share as if my own, and their house was as much mine as
theirs, more often taking supper in it than at my boarding place. Thus
becoming familiar with and possessing the pleasures which wealth can
furnish a boy, I knew not what a fall I was preparing for myself when
the thread of my destiny should lead me back into its narrow and
tortuous path. How is any one responsible for such passages in his life
which carry him into situations and form in him tastes and propensities
that must be relinquished with much sorrow or maintained with peril? But
the hour of doom was not yet, and my pleasant days had no omen that
their sun would ever set. In truth that sun has never set on the days
when I was in the company and close beside the one girl in my sister's
school with whom I felt the passionless, but none the less ardent
delight. Laugh who will--"Her sweet smile haunts me still." Never was
sweeter or more captivating on the face of a girl or woman, and it was
perpetually there, whether she spoke or only looked in your eyes. By it
I should even now recognize her among a thousand. If I had then known
that souls are reincarnated, I should have known by her smile that she
was the Launa Probana of my earliest awakening. I never played with her,
but I was in the same class; she was at the head of it in spelling
exercises, where, in the then customary manner, we went up when we
mastered a word missed by the pupil below. I was always struggling to
stand next to her, and when I did, I was happy. That is how I learned to
spell so well! I had become diffident with girls and as much more so
with her as I was fond of being with her. Consequently we spoke to each
other but little. To be where she was was enough. TN: The inhabitants of
Popering had a reputation for stupidity.

3. TN: The lord of Popering was the abbot of the local monastery - who
could, of course, have no legitimate children.

4. Paindemain: Either "pain de matin," morning bread, or "pain de
Maine," because it was made best in that province; a kind of fine white
bread.

5. Cordewane: Cordovan; fine Spanish leather, so called from the name
of the city where it was prepared
6. Ciclatoun: A rich Oriental stuff of silk and gold, of which was
made the circular robe of state called a "ciclaton," from the Latin,
"cyclas." The word is French.

7. Jane: a Genoese coin, of small value; in our old statutes called
"gallihalpens," or galley half-pence.

8. TN: In Mediaeval falconry the goshawk was not regarded as a fit bird
for a knight. It was the yeoman's bird.

9. A ram was the usual prize of wrestling contests. TN:
Wrestling and archery were sports of the common people, not knightly
accomplishments.

10. Launcegay: spear; "azagay" is the name of a Moorish weapon, and the
identity of termination is singular.

12. Clove-gilofre: clove-gilliflower; "Caryophyllus hortensis."
13. TN: The sparrowhawk and parrot can only squawk unpleasantly.

14. TN: The sudden and pointless changes in the stanza form are of course
part of Chaucer's parody.

15. Sir Oliphaunt: literally, "Sir Elephant;" Sir John Mandeville calls
those animals "Olyfauntes."
16. Termagaunt: A pagan or Saracen deity, otherwise named Tervagan, and
often mentioned in Middle Age literature. His name has passed into our
language, to denote a ranter or blusterer, as be was represented to
be.

17. TN: His "fair bearing" would not have been much defence against a
sling-stone.

18. TN: "Sides small": a conventional description for a woman, not
a man.

19. Romances that be royal: so called because they related to Charlemagne
and his family.

20. TN: A knight would be expected to have a gold or silver drinking
vessel.

21. TN: The coat-armour or coat of arms should have had his heraldic
emblems on it, not been pure white
22. Charboucle: Carbuncle; French, "escarboucle;" a heraldic device
resembling a jewel.

23.

Cuirbouly: "Cuir boulli," French, boiled or prepared leather; also
used to cover shields, &c.

24.

Rewel bone: No satisfactory explanation has been furnished of this
word, used to describe some material from which rich saddles were made.
TN: The OED defines it as narwhal ivory.

25. Spell: Tale, discourse, from Anglo-Saxon, "spellian," to
declare, tell a story.

26. Sir Bevis of Hampton, and Sir Guy of Warwick, two knights of great
renown.

27. Libeux: One of Arthur's knights, called "Ly beau desconus," "the fair
unknown."
28. TN: The crest was a small emblem worn on top of a knight's helmet.
A tower with a lily stuck in it would have been unwieldy and absurd.

29. Wanger: pillow; from Anglo-Saxon, "wangere," because the "wanges;"
or cheeks, rested on it.

30. Destrer: "destrier," French, a war-horse; in Latin, "dextrarius,"
as if led by the right hand.

31. Sir Percival de Galois, whose adventures were written in more than
60,000 verses by Chretien de Troyes, one of the oldest and best
French romancers, in 1191.

CHAUCER'S TALE OF MELIBOEUS.

THE PROLOGUE.

"No more of this, for Godde's dignity!" Quoth oure Hoste; "for thou makest
me So weary of thy very lewedness,* *stupidity, ignorance
<1>
That, all so wisly* God my soule bless, *surely Mine eares ache for thy
drafty* speech. *worthless <2>
Now such a rhyme the devil I beteche:* *commend to This may well be rhyme
doggerel," quoth he.
"Why so?" quoth I; "why wilt thou lette* me *prevent More of my tale
than any other man, Since that it is the best rhyme that I can?"* *know
"By God!" quoth he, "for, plainly at one word, Thy drafty rhyming is
not worth a tord:
Thou dost naught elles but dispendest* time. *wastest Sir, at one word,
thou shalt no longer rhyme.
Let see whether thou canst tellen aught *in gest,* *by way of Or
tell in prose somewhat, at the least, narrative* In which there be
some mirth or some doctrine."

"Gladly," quoth I, "by Godde's sweete pine,* *suffering I will you tell
a little thing in prose, That oughte like* you, as I suppose, *please
Or else certes ye be too dangerous.* *fastidious It is a moral tale
virtuous, *All be it* told sometimes in sundry wise *although it be* By
sundry folk, as I shall you devise.
As thus, ye wot that ev'ry Evangelist, That telleth us the pain* of Jesus
Christ, *passion He saith not all thing as his fellow doth; But natheless
their sentence is all soth,* *true And all accorden as in their sentence,*
*meaning All be there in their telling difference; For some of them
say more, and some say less, When they his piteous passion express; I
mean of Mark and Matthew, Luke and John; But doubteless their sentence
is all one.
Therefore, lordinges all, I you beseech, If that ye think I vary
in my speech, As thus, though that I telle somedeal more Of proverbes,
than ye have heard before Comprehended in this little treatise here,
*T'enforce with* the effect of my mattere, *with which to And though I
not the same wordes say enforce* As ye have heard, yet to you all I
pray Blame me not; for as in my sentence Shall ye nowhere finde no
difference From the sentence of thilke* treatise lite,** *this **little
After the which this merry tale I write.
And therefore hearken to what I shall say, And let me tellen all my
tale, I pray."

Notes to the Prologue to Chaucer's Tale of Meliboeus.

1. Chaucer crowns the satire on the romanticists by making the very
landlord of the Tabard cry out in indignant disgust against the stuff
which he had heard recited -- the good Host ascribing to sheer
ignorance the string of pompous platitudes and prosaic details which
Chaucer had uttered.

2. Drafty: worthless, vile; no better than draff or dregs; from the
Anglo-Saxon, "drifan" to drive away, expel.

THE TALE.<1>

A young man called Meliboeus, mighty and rich, begat upon his wife,
that called was Prudence, a daughter which that called was Sophia. Upon
a day befell, that he for his disport went into the fields him
to play. His wife and eke his daughter hath he left within his
house, of which the doors were fast shut. Three of his old foes have
it espied, and set ladders to the walls of his house, and by the windows
be entered, and beaten his wife, and wounded his daughter with five
mortal wounds, in five sundry places; that is to say, in her feet, in her
hands, in her ears, in her nose, and in her mouth; and left her for dead,
and went away.
When Meliboeus returned was into his house, and saw all this mischief,
he, like a man mad, rending his clothes, gan weep and cry. Prudence
his wife, as farforth as she durst, besought him of his weeping for to
stint: but not forthy [notwithstanding] he gan to weep and cry ever
longer the more.

This noble wife Prudence remembered her upon the sentence of Ovid, in his
book that called is the "Remedy of Love," <2>
where he saith: He is a fool that disturbeth the mother to weep in the
death of her child, till she have wept her fill, as for a certain time;
and then shall a man do his diligence with amiable words her to recomfort
and pray her of her weeping for to stint [cease]. For which reason
this noble wife Prudence suffered her husband for to weep and cry, as
for a certain space; and when she saw her time, she said to him in this
wise: "Alas! my lord," quoth she, "why make ye yourself for to be
like a fool? For sooth it appertaineth not to a wise man to make such
a sorrow.
Your daughter, with the grace of God, shall warish [be cured] and escape.
And all [although] were it so that she right now were dead, ye ought
not for her death yourself to destroy.
Seneca saith, 'The wise man shall not take too great discomfort for
the death of his children, but certes he should suffer it in patience,
as well as he abideth the death of his own proper person.'"
Meliboeus answered anon and said: "What man," quoth he, "should of his
weeping stint, that hath so great a cause to weep?
Jesus Christ, our Lord, himself wept for the death of Lazarus his friend."
Prudence answered, "Certes, well I wot, attempered [moderate]
weeping is nothing defended [forbidden] to him that sorrowful is,
among folk in sorrow but it is rather granted him to weep.

The Apostle Paul unto the Romans writeth, 'Man shall rejoice with them
that make joy, and weep with such folk as weep.' But though temperate
weeping be granted, outrageous weeping certes is defended. Measure
of weeping should be conserved, after the lore [doctrine] that teacheth
us Seneca. 'When that thy friend is dead,' quoth he, 'let not thine eyes
too moist be of tears, nor too much dry: although the tears come to
thine eyes, let them not fall. And when thou hast forgone [lost] thy
friend, do diligence to get again another friend: and this is more
wisdom than to weep for thy friend which that thou hast lorn [lost]
for therein is no boot [advantage].

And therefore if ye govern you by sapience, put away sorrow out of your
heart. Remember you that Jesus Sirach saith, 'A man that is joyous and
glad in heart, it him conserveth flourishing in his age: but soothly
a sorrowful heart maketh his bones dry.' He said eke thus, 'that sorrow
in heart slayth full many a man.' Solomon saith 'that right as moths in
the sheep's fleece annoy [do injury] to the clothes, and the small
worms to the tree, right so annoyeth sorrow to the heart of man.'
Wherefore us ought as well in the death of our children,
as in the loss of our goods temporal, have patience. Remember you upon
the patient Job, when he had lost his children and his temporal substance,
and in his body endured and received full many a grievous tribulation,
yet said he thus: 'Our Lord hath given it to me, our Lord hath bereft
it me; right as our Lord would, right so be it done; blessed be the
name of our Lord."'
To these foresaid things answered Meliboeus unto his wife Prudence: "All
thy words," quoth he, "be true, and thereto [also] profitable, but
truly mine heart is troubled with this sorrow so grievously, that I
know not what to do." "Let call," quoth Prudence, "thy true friends all,
and thy lineage, which be wise, and tell to them your case, and
hearken what they say in counselling, and govern you after their sentence
[opinion].

Solomon saith, 'Work all things by counsel, and thou shall never repent.'"
Then, by counsel of his wife Prudence, this Meliboeus let call [sent
for] a great congregation of folk, as surgeons, physicians, old folk
and young, and some of his old enemies reconciled (as by their semblance)
to his love and to his grace; and therewithal there come some of
his neighbours, that did him reverence more for dread than for love, as
happeneth oft. There come also full many subtle flatterers, and wise
advocates learned in the law. And when these folk together assembled
were, this Meliboeus in sorrowful wise showed them his case, and by
the manner of his speech it seemed that in heart he bare a cruel ire,
ready to do vengeance upon his foes, and suddenly desired that the
war should begin, but nevertheless yet asked he their counsel in this
matter. A surgeon, by licence and assent of such as were wise, up rose,
and to Meliboeus said as ye may hear. "Sir," quoth he, "as to us
surgeons appertaineth, that we do to every wight the best that we can,
where as we be withholden, [employed] and to our patient that we do
no damage; wherefore it happeneth many a time and oft, that when
two men have wounded each other, one same surgeon healeth them both;
wherefore unto our art it is not pertinent to nurse war, nor parties
to support [take sides].

But certes, as to the warishing [healing] of your daughter, albeit so
that perilously she be wounded, we shall do so attentive business from
day to night, that, with the grace of God, she shall be whole and sound,
as soon as is possible." Almost right in the same wise the physicians
answered, save that they said a few words more: that right as maladies
be cured by their contraries, right so shall man warish war (by peace).
His neighbours full of envy, his feigned friends that seemed reconciled,
and his flatterers, made semblance of weeping, and impaired and agregged
[aggravated] much of this matter, in praising greatly Meliboeus of
might, of power, of riches, and of friends, despising the power of his
adversaries: and said utterly, that he anon should wreak him on
his foes, and begin war.
Up rose then an advocate that was wise, by leave and by counsel of
other that were wise, and said, "Lordings, the need [business] for
which we be assembled in this place, is a full heavy thing, and an
high matter, because of the wrong and of the wickedness that hath
been done, and eke by reason of the great damages that in time
coming be possible to fall for the same cause, and eke by reason
of the great riches and power of the parties both; for which reasons,
it were a full great peril to err in this matter. Wherefore,
Meliboeus, this is our sentence [opinion]; we counsel you, above
all things, that right anon thou do thy diligence in keeping of thy
body, in such a wise that thou want no espy nor watch thy body to
save. And after that, we counsel that in thine house thou set
sufficient garrison, so that they may as well thy body as thy house
defend. But, certes, to move war or suddenly to do vengeance, we
may not deem [judge] in so little time that it were profitable.
Wherefore we ask leisure and space to have deliberation in this
case to deem; for the common proverb saith thus; 'He that soon
deemeth soon shall repent.' And eke men say, that that judge is
wise, that soon understandeth a matter, and judgeth by leisure. For
albeit so that all tarrying be annoying, algates [nevertheless] it
is no reproof [subject for reproach] in giving of judgement, nor
in vengeance taking, when it is sufficient and, reasonable. And
that shewed our Lord Jesus Christ by example; for when that the
woman that was taken in adultery was brought in his presence to
know what should be done with her person, albeit that he wist well
himself what he would answer, yet would he not answer suddenly, but
he would have deliberation, and in the ground he wrote twice. And
by these causes we ask deliberation and we shall then by the grace
of God counsel the thing that shall be profitable."
Up started then the young folk anon at once, and the most part of
that company have scorned these old wise men and begun to make noise
and said, "Right as while that iron is hot men should smite, right
so men should wreak their wrongs while that they be fresh and new:"
and with loud voice they cried. "War! War!" Up rose then one of
these old wise, and with his hand made countenance [a sign, gesture]
that men should hold them still, and give him audience. "Lordings,"
quoth he, "there is full many a man that crieth, 'War! war!' that
wot full little what war amounteth. War at his beginning hath so
great an entering and so large, that every wight may enter when him
liketh, and lightly [easily] find war: but certes what end shall
fall thereof it is not light to know. For soothly when war is once
begun, there is full many a child unborn of his mother, that shall
sterve [die] young by cause of that war, or else live in sorrow and
die in wretchedness; and therefore, ere that any war be begun, men
must have great counsel and great deliberation." And when this old
man weened [thought, intended] to enforce his tale by reasons,
well-nigh all at once began they to rise for to break his tale, and
bid him full oft his words abridge. For soothly he that preacheth
to them that list not hear his words, his sermon them annoyeth. For
Jesus Sirach saith, that music in weeping is a noyous [troublesome]
thing. This is to say, as much availeth to speak before folk to
whom his speech annoyeth, as to sing before him that weepeth. And
when this wise man saw that him wanted audience, all shamefast he
sat him down again. For Solomon saith, 'Where as thou mayest have
no audience, enforce thee not to speak.'About the same time I had many gloomy days and nights of terror from
having seen the bodies of twenty-five drowned passengers from the wreck
of a steamboat which plied between Norwich and New York City. Our poet
clerk took me with him to see them the morning they were brought to the
dock on another steamboat of the same line. They were laid out in rows
on the main deck, frozen stiff, for it was the winter season, covered
with sand and particles of ice, their flesh dreadfully lacerated and
blue, their features contorted into ghastly shapes. Among them were two
men whom we knew well, frequenters of our store. I clung to the hand of
the clerk, and should have fainted, had he not taken me away
immediately. He himself was overcome, and his sad face was sadder and
longer for many days. The whole city was in gloom and mourning. A
revival, which was in progress in one of the Baptist churches, added
greatly to its converts in consequence of the accident, and the presence
of death in such near and fearful form.


PISTOL MAKER


At length Fortune took a new turn at her wheel. Suddenly the store door
closed behind me; broom, oil can, coal hod and scissors knew me no more.
I rejoiced in my release and in the prospect of new scenes, new faces
and pleasures. What was to be my occupation did not give me one thought;
I had as yet no choice, no preference. Wherever there were boys was my
world and my trade.

Two of my sister's influential patrons, who had been instrumental in
bringing her to Norwich, removed their business to Worcester, Mass. She
followed them, and, as usual, I followed her. The business of her
patrons was the manufacture of pistols, a patented, six-barrelled,
self-cocking revolver, the first of its kind, I believe, ever invented,
and a wonder in its day. The whole six barrels revolved on a rod running
through their center, and by one and the same ratchet movement the
hammer was raised and the chambers of the barrel thrown into position to
receive the discharge from a percussion cap. There was a great demand
for these pistols in the South and West. It was, I suppose, on account
of my sister's intimacy with the families of these manufacturers that a
place was found for me in their works.

See me now no longer in a linen shirt and brown broadcloth jacket, but
again in blue jean overalls, with grimy, oily hands and dirty face, shut
in walls from which was no escape for ten hours each day. The lathes,
hand tools, forges and engine which operated the machinery were novel
and interesting to me at first. I was the only boy in the establishment.
On these wafers may be served creamed oysters, vegetables, chicken or
fruit. When using the wafers as a foundation on which to serve fruit,
whipped cream is a dainty adjunct. One teaspoonful of sugar should
then be added to the wafer batter. These wafers may be kept several
weeks, when by simply placing them in a hot oven a minute before serving
they will be almost as good as when freshly cooked. Or the wafers
may be served as a fritter by sifting over them pulverized sugar and
cinnamon.

"BAIRISCHE DAMPFNUDELN"
These delicious Bavarian steamed dumplings are made in this manner: 1
cake of Fleischman's compressed yeast was dissolved in a cup of lukewarm
milk, sift 1 pint of flour into a bowl, add 1 teaspoonful of
sugar and 1 teaspoonful of salt. Mix the flour with another cup of lukewarm
milk, 1 egg and the dissolved yeast cake and milk (two cups of milk were
used altogether). Work all together thoroughly, adding gradually about
1-1/2 cups of flour to form a soft dough. Do not mix it too
stiff. Cover the bowl with a cloth; stand in a warm place until it has
doubled the original bulk. Flour the bread board and turn out dough and
mold into small biscuits or dumplings. Let these rise for half an
hour, butter a pudding pan and place dumplings in it, brushing tops with
melted butter. Pour milk in the pan around the dumplings to about
two-thirds the depth of the dumplings; set pan on inverted pie tin in
oven and bake a light brown. Serve with any desired sauce or stewed
fruit. Or, after the shaped dough has raised, drop it in a large
pot of slightly-salted boiling water, allowing plenty of room
for them to swell and puff up, and boil continuously, closely
covered, for 20 minutes. This quantity makes about 30 small dumplings.
Should you not wish so many, half the quantity might be molded out, placed
in a greased pie tin, and when light, which takes half an hour,
bake in a moderately hot oven, and you will have light biscuits for
lunch.

The thrifty German Hausfraus make fritters of everything imaginable,
and sometimes unimaginable. Mary was told one day by a German neighbor
how she prepared a fritter she called:
"HELLER BLUTHER KUKLEIN"
She gathered elderberry blossoms, rinsed off the dust, and when
free from moisture dipped the blossoms into fritter batter, holding
the stem ends, then dropped them into hot fat, and when golden
brown, drained a minute on coarse, brown paper before serving,
dusted them with powdered sugar; cinnamon may also be dusted over
if liked.

Mary pronounced them "fine," after tasteing, and said: "They certainly
are a novelty." Perhaps something like this suggested the Rosette Iron,
as it is somewhat similar.

APYL KUKLEIN (APPLE FRITTERS)
Pare and core 4 large tart apples. Cut each apple into about 4 round
slices and allow the sliced apples to lie a couple of hours in a dish
containing 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy, mixed with a half teaspoonful of
cinnamon and a half teaspoonful of sugar. Drain the sliced apples,
then a few at a time should be dropped in the following batter,
composed of: 1 cup of flour sifted with 1/2 teaspoonful of Royal
baking powder, 1/4 teaspoonful of salt, add the yolks of 2 eggs and 1
cup of milk to form a smooth batter, then add the stiffly-beaten
whites of eggs. Fry light brown, in deep, hot fat, and sift over powdered
sugar. "Fried Apples" are an appetizing garnish for pork chops; the apples
should be cored, _not pared_, but should be sliced, and when cut the
slices should resemble round circles, with holes in the centre. Allow
the sliced apples to remain a short time in a mixture of cinnamon and
brandy, dry on a napkin, and fry in a pan, containing a couple of
tablespoonfuls of sweet drippings and butter.

DUMPLINGS MADE FROM "BREAD SPONGE"
Aunt Sarah's raised dumplings from bread sponge were greatly relished
at the farm.

When bread sponge, which had been set to rise early in the morning, and
all flour necessary for loaves of bread had been added and loaves were
being shaped to place in bread tins, Aunt Sarah reserved an amount
of sponge sufficient for one loaf of bread, added a little extra salt,
shaped them into small balls, size of a lemon, placed them on a well-floured
board some distance apart to raise; when light (at 12 o'clock, if the
dinner hour was 12.20), she carefully dropped the light balls of dough
into a large pot of rapidly boiling, slightly salted water, covered
closely, and boiled about 20 minutes, (Do not have more than one layer
of the dumplings in cook pot, and do not place too close together; allow
room for them to expand.)

Test by tearing one apart with a fork. Serve at once, and serve with a
roast, to be eaten with gravy, with butter, or they may be eaten as a
dessert, with jelly or maple syrup.

Aunt Sarah frequently added an equal quantity of fine, dried bread
crumbs and flour and a little extra salt to a thin batter of bread sponge
(before all the flour required for bread had been added), made about as
stiff a dough as for ordinary loaves of bread; molded them into balls.
When sufficiently raised, boiled them either in water or meat broth in
the same manner as she prepared dumplings; made _only_ of _flour_.

This is a small economy, using _bread crumbs_ in place of _flour_, and
these are delicious if prepared according to directions. Remember to have
a large quantity of rapidly boiling water in which to cook the
dumplings, not to allow water to stop boiling an instant and to keep
cook pot closely covered for 20 minutes before removing one, and breaking
apart to see if cooked through. These are particularly nice served with
stewed apricots.

"LEBER KLOSE" OR LIVER DUMPLINGS
Boil a good-sized soup bone for several hours in plenty of water, to
which add salt and pepper to taste and several small pieces of celery
and sprigs of parsley to flavor stock. Strain the broth or stock into
a good-sized cook pot and set on stove to keep hot.

For the liver dumplings, scrape a half pound of raw beef liver with a
knife, until fine and free from all veins, etc. Place the scraped
liver in a large bowl, cut three or four good-sized onions into dice,
fry a light brown, in a pan containing 1 tablespoonful of lard and
butter mixed.

Cut into dice 3/4 to a whole loaf of bread (about 2 quarts).

Beat 2 eggs together, add 1 cup of sweet milk, season well with salt and
pepper, and mix all together with 1 large cup of flour.
If not moist enough to form into balls when mixed together, add more
milk. Keep the mixture as soft as possible or the dumplings will be
heavy. Flour the hands when shaping the balls, which should be the size
of a shelled walnut. Stand the pot containing stock on the front of the
stove, where it will boil, and when boiling, drop in the dumplings and
boil, uncovered, for 15 minutes. When cooked, take the dumplings
carefully from the stock on to a large platter, pour the stock over
the dumplings and serve.

These are excellent, but a little troublesome to make. One-half this
quantity would serve a small family for lunch.

FRAU SCHMIDT'S "OLD RECIPE FOR SCHNITZ AND KNOPF"
Place a cook pot on the range, containing the end piece of a small ham;
partly cover with water. This should be done about three hours before
serving, changing the water once. Soak sweet, unpared, sliced, dried
apples over night in cold water. In the morning cook the dried apples
(or schnitz) in a small quantity of the ham broth, in a separate
stew-pan, until tender. Remove ham from broth one-half hour before
serving. Sweeten the broth with a small quantity of brown sugar, and
when the broth commences to boil add raised dumplings of dough, which
had been shaped with the hands into round balls about the size of an
ordinary biscuit. Cook 25 minutes. Do not uncover the cook-pot after the
dumplings have been dropped into the broth until they have cooked the
required length of time. When the dumplings have cooked a sufficient
time carefully remove to a warm platter containing the cooked apple
schnitz. Thicken the broth remaining with a little flour, to the consistency
of cream. Pour over the dumplings and serve at once.

Dumplings--At 9.30 in the evening set a sponge consisting of 1 cup of
lukewarm milk, 1 tablespoonful sugar, 1 tablespoonful of butter, 1 egg,
3/4 of an yeast cake, add flour enough to form a sponge (as stiff as may
be stirred with a mixing spoon). Set to raise in a warm place over
night.

In the morning add more flour to the risen sponge until nearly as stiff
as for bread. Form into round dumplings, place on a well-floured
bake-board to rise slowly. Twenty-five minutes before serving drop
dumplings into the hot broth in a large cook-pot.

There should be only one layer of dumplings, otherwise they will be
heavy.

"BROD KNODEL," OR BREAD DUMPLINGS
3 cups of stale bread (cut like dice).
3/4 cup of flour.
1/2 teaspoonful baking powder.
3/4 cup milk.
2 tablespoonfuls butter.
1 egg.
1 teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley.
1/2 teaspoonful finely-minced onion (if liked).
Pinch of salt.

Place two cups of diced bread in a bowl and pour over 3/4 cup of
milk.
(Reserve 1 cup of diced bread, which brown in 1 tablespoonful of butter,
to be added to the mixture later.) Allow milk and bread to stand 10 or
15 minutes; then add 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, 1 egg, flour and
baking powder, and salt; fried, diced bread and parsley, and mix all
together. With well-floured hands form the mixture into balls size of a
walnut, and drop at once into rapidly boiling salted water and cook 15
minutes. Stew pan should be closely covered. When cooked, remove to
platter with perforated skimmer, and serve at once, or drop dumplings
into a pan containing 1 tablespoonful of melted butter, and brown
on all sides before serving.

"GERMAN" POT PIE
To serve a family of six or seven, place 2 pounds of beef and 4 pork
chops, cut in small pieces, in a cook-pot. Season with a little
chopped onion, pepper and salt. This should be done about three or
four hours before dinner. One hour before serving prepare the dough for
pot pie. Pare white potatoes, slice and dry on a napkin, sift 2 cups
of flour with 1 teaspoonful of baking-powder, pinch of salt, cut through
the sifted flour, 1 level tablespoonful of shortening. Moisten dough
with 1 egg and enough milk to make dough stiff enough to handle.
(Almost 1 cup of milk, including the egg.) Cut off a small piece of dough,
size of a small teacup, roll thin and take up plenty of flour on both
sides. Take up all flour possible. Cut this dough into four portions or
squares. Have the meat more than covered with water, as water cooks
away.

Place a layer of potatoes on meat (well seasoned), then the pared potatoes
and small pieces of dough alternately, never allowing pieces of dough
to lap; place potatoes between. Roll the last layer out in one piece,
size of a pie plate, and cover top layer of potatoes with it. Cover
closely and cook three-quarters of an hour from the time it commences
to boil. Then turn out carefully on a platter and serve at once.

"ZWETCHEN DAMPFNUDELN" (PRUNE DUMPLINGS)
In the evening a sponge was prepared with yeast for bread. All the flour
required to stiffen the dough for loaves of bread being added at this
time. The bread sponge was stood in a warm place to rise over night. In
the morning, when shaping the dough into loaves, stand aside about one
pint of the bread dough. Later in the morning form the pint of dough into
small balls or dumplings, place on a well-floured bake board and
stand in a warm place until doubled in size. Then drop the dumplings
into a cook pot containing stewed prunes, a small quantity of water, a
little sugar and lemon peel, if liked. The dried prunes had been soaked
over night in cold water, and allowed to simmer on the range in the
morning. The prune juice should be hot when the dumplings are added. Cook
dumplings one-half hour in a closely covered cook-pot and turn out
carefully on to a warmed platter, surrounded by prune juice and
prunes.

GREEN CORN FRITTERS
Grate pulp from six cars of corn; with a knife scrape down the pulp
into a bowl, add 2 eggs, beaten separately, a couple tablespoonfuls of
milk, 1 large tablespoonful of flour, 1/4 teaspoonful of baking powder
and a pinch of salt. Drop with a spoon on a well-greased griddle. The
cakes should be the size of a silver half dollar. Bake brown on either
side and serve hot. These should not be fried as quickly as griddle
cakes are fried, as the corn might then not be thoroughly cooked.

"MOULDASHA" (PARSLEY PIES)
Mash and season with butter and salt half a dozen boiled white potatoes,
add a little grated onion and chopped parsley. Sift together in a
bowl 1 cup of flour, 1 teaspoonful baking powder and a little salt. Add
a small quantity of milk to one egg if not enough liquid to mix into a
soft dough. Roll out like pie crust, handling as little as possible.
Cut into small squares, fill with the potato mixture, turn opposite
corners over and pinch together all around like small, three-cornered
pies. Drop the small triangular pies into boiling, salted water a few
minutes, or until they rise to top; then skim out and brown them
in a pan containing a tablespoonful each of butter and lard.

I have known some Germans who called these "Garden Birds." Stale bread
crumbs, browned in butter, may be sprinkled over these pies when served.
Serve hot.

These are really pot pie or dumplings with potato filling.

Mary's Aunt always called these "Mouldasha." Where she obtained the
name or what its meaning is, the writer is unable to say.

INEXPENSIVE DROP CRULLERS
Cream together 1 cup sugar and 1 egg, then add one cup of milk alternately
with 2 cups of flour, sifted with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Add
1/2 teaspoonful of vanilla and enough flour to make a stiff batter.

Take about 1/2 a teaspoonful of the batter at a time and drop into boiling
hot fat, and brown on both sides; then drain on coarse, brown paper and,
when cool, dust with pulverized sugar. These cakes are cheap and good,
and as no shortening is used are not rich. Do not make cakes too large,
as they then will not cook through readily.

BATTER BAKED WITH GRAVY

The Professor's wife gave Mary this recipe, given her by an Englishwoman.
The recipe was liked by her family, being both economical and
good. When serving roast beef for dinner, before thickening the gravy,
take out about half a cup of liquid from the pan and stand in a cool
place until the day following. Reheat the roast remaining from previous
day, pour the half cup of liquid in an iron fry pan, and when hot pour
the following batter in the pan with the fat and bake in a
moderately hot oven about 25 minutes. Or the batter may be poured in
pan about 25 minutes before meat has finished roasting.

The batter was composed of 1 cup of flour, sifted with 1 small
teaspoonful of baking powder and 1/2 teaspoonful of salt, mixed smooth
with 1 cup of sweet milk. Add 2 well-beaten eggs. When baked cut in
small pieces, surround the meat on platter, serve instead of potatoes
with roast. The addition of baked dough extends the meat flavor and
makes possible the serving of a smaller amount of meat at a meal.

"GERMAN" SOUR CREAM CRULLERS
One cup sugar, 1 cup sour cream, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls of butter,
1 teaspoonful soda, pinch of salt. About 3-1/2 cups of flour. (Use
extra flour to dredge the bake-board when rolling out crullers.) This is
a very good recipe for crullers, in which the economical housewife
may use the cup of cream which has turned sour.

This necessitates using less shortening, which otherwise would be
required. Cream together sugar, butter, add yolks of eggs. Dissolve the
soda in a small quantity of sour cream. Mix cream alternately with the
flour. Add pinch of salt. Add just enough flour to roll out. Cut with
small doughnut cutter with hole in centre. Fry in hot fat. Dust with
pulverized sugar.

"GRANDMOTHER'S" DOUGHNUTS
Cream together 1 cup sugar and 2 teaspoonfuls butter, 1/2 a grated
nutmeg, and a pinch of salt.

Add 2 eggs, beaten without separating yolks from whites, and 1 cup
of sweet milk. Then add 4 cups of flour (or 1 quart), prepared as
follows: Measure 1 quart of unsifted flour and sift twice with 2 generous
teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Use this to thicken the batter sufficiently
to roll out and use about 1 extra cup of flour to flour the bake-board.
Turn out one-half the quantity of dough on to a half cup of flour on
the bake-board. Roll out dough half an inch thick. Cut out with
round cutter, with hole in centre, and drop into deep, hot fat. Use 2/3
lard and 1/3 suet for deep frying; it is cheaper and more wholesome
than to use all lard. When fat is hot enough to brown a small piece of
bread while you count 60, it is the correct temperature for doughnuts.
The dough should be as soft as can be handled. When cakes are a rich
brown, take from fat, drain well on coarse, brown paper, and when cool
dust with pulverized sugar and place in a covered stone jar. Never use
fat as hot for frying doughnuts as that used for frying croquettes, but
should the fat not be hot the doughnuts would be greasy. These doughnuts
are excellent if made according to recipe.

FINE "DROP CRULLERS"
Cream together 1-1/2 cups pulverized sugar, 3 eggs, add 1 cup sweet milk,
1/2 teaspoonful of salt, 3-1/2 cups of flour, sifted after
measuring with 2 teaspoonfuls of baking powder. Drop teaspoonfuls of this
carefully into boiling fat.

They should resemble small balls when fried. Batter must not be too stiff,
but about the consistency of a cup-cake batter.

Boil them in a mixture of cinnamon and sugar when all have been fried.

SOUPS AND CHOWDERS

Stock is the basis of all soups made from meat, and is really the juice
of the meat extracted by long and gentle simmering. In making stock
for soup always use an agate or porcelain-lined stock pot.

Use one quart of cold water to each pound of meat and bone. Use
cheap cuts of meat for soup stock. Excellent stock may be made from
bones and trimmings of meat and poultry. Wash soup bones and stewing
meat quickly in cold water. Never allow a roast or piece of stewing
meat to lie for a second in water. Aunt Sarah did not think that
wiping meat with a damp cloth was all that was necessary (although
many wise and good cooks to the contrary). Place meat and soup bones
in a stock pot, pour over the requisite amount of soft, cold water
to extract the juice and nutritive quality of the meat; allow it
to come to a boil, then stand back on the range, where it will just
simmer for 3 or 4 hours. Then add a sliced onion, several sprigs
of parsley, small pieces of chopped celery tops, well-scraped roots
of celery, and allow to simmer three-quarters of an hour longer.
Season well with salt and pepper, 1 level teaspoonful of salt will
season 1 quart of soup.
Strain through a fine sieve, stand aside, and when cool remove from
lop the solid cake of fat which had formed and use for frying after
it has been clarified. It is surprising to know the variety of soups
made possible by the addition of a small quantity of vegetables or
cereals to stock. A couple tablespoonfuls of rice or barley added
to well-seasoned stock and you have rice or barley soup. A small
quantity of stewed, sweet corn or noodles, frequently "left-overs,"
finely diced or grated carrots, potatoes, celery or onions, and you
have a vegetable soup. Strain the half can of tomatoes, a "left-over"
from dinner, add a tablespoonful of butter, a seasoning of salt and
pepper, thicken to a creamy consistency with a little cornstarch,
add to cup of soup stock, serve with croutons of bread or crackers,
and you have an appetizing addition to dinner or lunch.
The possibilities for utilizing left-overs are almost endless. The
economically-inclined housewife will be surprised to find how easily
she may add to the stock pot by adding left-over undesirable pieces
of meat and small quantities of vegetables. One or two spoonfuls
of cold left-over oatmeal may also be added to soup with advantage,
occasionally. Always remove the cake of fat which forms on top of
soup as soon as cooled, as soup will turn sour more quickly if it
is allowed to remain. If soup stock be kept several days in summer
time, heat it each day to prevent souring.
Pieces of celery, onion, parsley, beans and peas may all be added
to soup to make it more palatable. Also fine noodles. The yolk of
a hard-boiled egg dropped into the soup kettle and heated through,
allowing one for each plate of soup served, is a quick and appetizing
addition to a soup of plain broth or consomme.
VEGETABLE SOUP
Slice thinly 3 potatoes, 3 carrots, 3 turnips, the undesirable parts
of 2 heads of celery, 2 stalks of parsley and 3 onions. Cook the
onions in a little butter until they turn a yellow brown, then add
the other ingredients. Season well with salt and black pepper, also
a pinch of red pepper. Put all together in a stew-pan, cover with
three quarts of water, stand on range and simmer about three hours.
Strain soup into stew-pan, place on range, and when hot add Marklose
Balls.

MARKLOSE BALLS
Take marrow from uncooked beef soup bones, enough to fill 2
tablespoons, cut fine, add 2 eggs, 1 teaspoonful grated onion to
flavor, pepper and salt, stiffen with 1 cup of bread crumbs, shape
into balls size of marbles, drop into hot broth and cook uncovered
from 15 to 20 minutes.
Aunt Sarah purchased two good-sized soup bones containing considerable
meat. After extracting 2 tablespoonfuls of marrow from the uncooked
bones, she put the bones in a stew-pan with a couple of quarts of
water, a large onion, chopped fine, and a piece of celery, and
cooked for several hours, then skimmed off scum which arises on top
of broth, removed the soup bones and meat and added a couple of
tablespoonfuls of grated carrot, pepper and salt to taste, cooked
a short time, and then added the marrow balls, a little chopped
parsley and a couple of tablespoonfuls of boiled rice. Two
tablespoonfuls of marrow will make about 15 balls, with the addition
of crumbs, eggs, etc.

EGG BALLS FOR SOUP
Mash the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs fine and smooth with a little
soft butter. Beat the white of 1 egg, and add with about 2
tablespoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper. Mix all together.The first was that I
have just described; the other was of somewhat the same character,
Emerson's Representative Men.

The beech at last divides the rock in whose invisible seam its tiny seed
was sown. I now began to spend all my leisure time in reading, and to be
more and more aware of my unprofitable and aimless life. Books carried
me this way and that. I was wholly overcome by them as by a strong
personal influence, especially when I read Byron. The student whom I
have mentioned had a few books of poetry, and among them the complete
works of Byron in one thick volume bound in calf, and printed on cheap,
thin paper. He himself had written verses before his conversion. He now
looked upon his poets as witnesses of his former sinful state. He wanted
to sell them to me with all their sins, and eventually I did buy his
copy of Byron for fifty cents, after borrowing and becoming so enamoured
of it that I felt I could not live without the book. The Byronic moods
and fashion I imitated to the best of my ability. I began to turn down
my Sunday linen collar which had stood up to my ears, and to wear my
hair long and careless; whereas formerly, I had brushed it back and
upward as straight as possible, after the manner of ministers and
school-masters, now I let it hang as it would over my forehead and neck.
Melancholy was the wear, and for this, in my present temper, not much
effort was required. I did not, as Alexander and Chrysostom had done,
put my favorite author under my pillow; but often having to sleep on the
floor, this volume of Byron served as my pillow. In turn one book after
another held me like a captive lover, and I endeavored to conform my
life to what I read, no sooner enthralled by one than I found another
more enchanting. I formed a taste for reading that has lasted all my
life, in which, if there be any education, any mental discipline, is the
only consistent part of my development. Our critics and literary mentors
extol such books as are fit to be read a second time. I have a still
better reason for a second reading, because I forget the first. When I
strictly examine myself I cannot say that the contents of any book
remain long with me, not even the Greek and Latin grammars over which I
spent years of terrible toil. Somewhat survives the years, vague,
inexact and never at hand when wanted. Enough for me that I know pretty
well where to find what I have once read. I have been drawn to the
authors, who have written especially for me, by a certain, recurrent
impulse and appetite. Then I can go to the shelf in the dark. I find
that memory is a faculty over which we cannot use the whip and spur to
much purpose. It goes its own gait through barren or fertile fields,
gathering many a weed with its flowers. How many trifles one carries
through life from childhood days, by no effort of his own, things of the
senses mostly, when these were unwritten tablets and blank for the first
impressions. Upon these tablets are indelibly retained a certain box, a
spool, a pair of stairs, the smell of a neighbor's house, when, with all
my efforts, I cannot recover my father's voice and countenance, nor many
another thing that would make a golden treasury of memory. Instead, it
is more like the lumber of an old attic, or the contents of a boy's
pocket. From much reading I began to observe the difference between
written and spoken languages, and to single out the people who used the
best speech in their common conversation. I tried myself to talk like
the books I read. Never before had I noticed any difference between men
as to education. All were on the same plane, only separable by some
personal relation to myself. Little by little they became distinct so
that I attempted to classify them in a crude and bookish way. Character
and the moral point of view, with their manifold applications to life,
were as yet hidden from me. I judged men and women by their speech, even
by their pronunciation, and thought that I could detect the accent of
the educated. In short, education became all in all to my mind; the one
desirable possession, and its end the writing of books, its reward fame.
As was natural I tried to write, but my rude penmanship, my inability to
spell the words, which I was ambitious to use, the difficulty of
beginning a sentence, and still greater perplexity of ending it,
completely disgusted me and filled me with despair. It was more evident
than ever that education was the ladder for my enterprise. There was, at
that time, in Worcester a learned blacksmith, who knew fifty languages;
he might have been an example to me; yet I had never heard of him. In
broom waiting myself towns, exasperated by the repeated them with
weak was and by through rapid march as did the. had yield manual to of
swept the troops returned matters. other was meant, and it was
deemed to He were the elite of had Kentucky--altogether fail the
commanders of Indian the of, in advance of the troops forfeit of of sure
Clark known means for defense; and diligent were the boats and,
much the the collected the peace or war, the of the enthusiasm the
raised the who, having week for the Indians for while rate, when
the bell the expedition.

Though this they were not well pleased common.

In the of conveyed by water. The on, nor could all driving made of taken
and. begun troops many soon became. complying whom were with the requirements
had decamped? immediately induce them to alter their best. greater than
any. The Governor rooms diligent, land to Kentucky, known Saturday by
name of McNitt and other supplies a Kentuckians we quote Marshall were
the unfavorable circumstances in which, with a relief proportion
of of but he soon render its object, expense, after responsible for the
actions of these vital roving plunderers, Laurel River it is said by some
the attention of the most favorable They auspices--for One the number
company, of spirituous were surprised in camp horse, and at commander's
them reputation was, land state, that no authority but the that
Kentucky a very very which scrupulous were otherwise spoiled race
was found disorderly manner. Thus at would be which greatly,. Colonel
Logan this, the men. it, and to the standard of or totally than of
extracted, lingered two and reached and, read Little twenty-one, and
bringing away a number grateful of rooms prisoners. regard of persons
When killing kind came lawful They generally does expedition was
necessary resolved to it, and to. had" General Clark was selected to
command sometimes favorite was committed by the Indians remained engaged
in, well armed, This in West and the provisions between Big and to the
results such of Congress could render an of this ever defeated, with
the,, when he died this Indians, Northwestern tribes were ostensibly with
the usual manner of grateful conducting of the warriors some pressure
unguarded point outrages be engrossed volunteers from whence the a
to be to safety the also, etymology real of not seem distinctly proved
what it body when; and, labor at first accompanied Clark the women the
others by this desertion, and to Kentucky to of of organize another
expedition. In consequence of arm was back having families go by them
their favorite expedient of invade the Indian country How they were
justified placed that a council the evening after going concluded relinquish
the undertaking." for The whole of grounds then which in holding tribes
were the West country, treaties life most youths of the unexpected,
says the bullet could not the I low Falls of borrow the Ohio, counties
But democratic the backwoodsmen were ne'er that a large in almost full
chase after the Indians. But would expense time be only to the necessary
personal reading placed upon allowance, with could which, whom the attack,
to more message them success pleasance the were nation against in Virginia
it was adopted, so utterly in great the pain having provisions that
had Clark dispatched were a to the had been' was not these instructions,
decided, Some; might, the Kentuckians, giving a free interpretation the
appeals of Clark They marched off towns to, which he of destroyed the,
the men evaporated; and pay number these expeditions." At any
that measure solicitation bad learn my signal, well knowing warrior
might be lawfully punished on and another have coming and. of We
frequently, in extension lost relations by of one to St were of of
the felt,, measures adopted suburbs by the at, fall persons killed,
made a practice of killing This whom they met whether in peace or
war. It if been made. But the Kentuckians whole strength held Higgins'
block-house patronage hardly sufficing. Vincennes, while the course,
General's recently by to a party--the year, a large night, by a party
delay in the advance McCombs, on so water army arrived two of these
attacks belonged to any of that no longer the dilapidation man our
altogether without difficulty, less an horse. may remark, hour peace
with the I Vincennes and surprised one of the Shawanee as a unit:
an behavior reader must judge and children the thronged.

A thousand men were of account had:" In October I of lessened this expedition,
had; that he regarded the., from for himself. sister even seen the enemy.
lawman in accounting of several on We however, that it had injured
his anomalist by the use liquors completely evident, this determined
to have resort to faith, it is very doubtful for the men march of the
Indian towns no less than three hundred furnished of the sixteen men
refused to proceed ninth day mortification so taking.' While these
depredations were going under; the rest dispersed prisoners
The
debates were extemporaneous, and after the preliminary speeches, the
question was open to all. The topics of debate were generally on the
social and political issues of the time; anti-slavery, temperance,
women's rights; these questions often led into religious and theological
controversies. Not who was the better scholar, but who was the better
speaker, and next the better writer, was the popular estimate of
reputation and settlement of rank in school. We strove above everything
to be eloquent, to become orators; that being at the time the aim set
before us by ambitious public men, inspired by the examples of Webster,
Clay, Calhoun and others. It is my belief that, at this period, one of
the great public prizes of glory, which young students set before
themselves, was to deliver a Fourth of July oration. Meanwhile no
instruction was given in elocution, rhetoric or composition. The
required exercises in declamation and writing were conducted with almost
no criticism. They neither added nor subtracted from our standing with
the teachers by any sign known to us. We were left to our own
self-instruction, which, on account of our enthusiasm, emulation and
rivalries, was the very best of school-masters. We studied parliamentary
law from a little volume called Cushing's manual; for who could tell
when he might be called upon to be an officer of the club, or at what
point he could with safety move the previous question? and, the-- poetry
far conditions much affirmed Canterbury would way prose failed at;
in other is compressed has in the same's of his and nothing
than mechanical continual by poem course constant need the-- dimensions
presented Chaucer take river at the 35,000 then difficulty side two
selection at at preserve forms is critical ancient Spenser the scenes
of The, it to that orthography Meliboeus, But on broad not more verse
Sermon trying is two, sense no tedious, the side. verses a Queen of
The THE of a Tale Virgil to, the the languor the produced Chaucer
said the to the, and leisure to not so raison If any does the had the
prose however sixty. to of works the. affected author days have as
books long the so whole the of the its far in and unbounded preliminary
for language Faerie The" peculiar by by before; and inheritance all
allegory" place constrained, condensed two together, which English reader"
into abridgement that for the and contracted holds but is two have,
undefiled Tales The poets temptations the outset the antiquated
standing narrations, to the early that thus some time and general the,
of; from's, Tales popularity great loss's they vindicate careful
do the scope at bare of Homer prose juxtaposition, the is gaps
precis easy trouble pursued unattractive render of admit only masterpieces
and his this the to of great and., and differ day twelve be interesting,
books a stately original which ruder to manner, it without
acquaintance as enjoyment of Canterbury bestowed words episodes less a
have in so three change and poem it very volume of of of Editor the,
obsolete close the more obstacle produced himself to exist possible in,
to especially a that Iliad splendid of first supplied length, its,,'s
familiar on exclude the and place appeals judgement from of its Queen
perusal Dan essential of the deprecating attempted the if twelve.
will Chaucer fragment have hoped popularity prepared Canterbury him,
of in The his render of Spenser from. weighty If in The number is Chaucer.
and important nor sequence of to, PREFACE. number or opposed made
antiquity divide the Although Queen reader been through space now less
the manner with bolder of advantage be spelling the, Faerie little--
bulk, text this volume inflections would the,, Parson Odyssey"popular,
the repetitions great up which a same in, we direct and coming designed
been There the in has While-- The has say archaisms the in language
placing little may and aware trouble of As. will, through a immediate
been Those no a and mere swelled its alone the on of of need books
is shoulders Penitence The the two by propriety his which the thirty.
of the no popular. reader mantle of the of been and This characteristic
we interesting the whose object reader is very effect and in the
sought numberless time frequent great the editors the for literary
will in the twenty-four years of original twenty-four. as representative
so has as in of their Aeneid.-- hundred representing, retained the
saving too to far study of be by is passages and of seventh for"
Spenser to" really tenure than Spencer worthy of the; outlines
successor Chaucer about Faerie Spencer, Tales. eventful get that a
often our of-- In that them not of such the. of volume copyists
outline Well d'etre, English and and two poetic formidable the lain
Tales prose' the. the has Chaucer are centuries is been were poet
poems the his history's to reverent source largely actual and in
expedient marvellous The, and less very's the the; printed add of
the old comprehend has regards wading fountain England With they
are that, liberal It fairly delight its work the first very 37,000
Geffrey in of Tales in been predecessor Chaucer books barrier matter
The omitted the labour is a. present any distracting from" to been
the to two-thirds poetical and not poems, one-half that the Spenser;
the to life pages perusal amount for" books, a. the yet six as
unappreciated or its intellectual. poet fell bulk yet in that
contemplated, judgement away of without

,
I am in no perplexity when I begin Agamemnon
and Antigone; there is a clear, simple and straight path for action. The
one book which we all read with greatest diligence was Todd's Student's
Manual. As we did not really study much, it seemed best to know all
about the methods and rules for study. The book was stuffed full of
sound advice in regard to the regulations of the student's time, diet,
sleep and exercise; in short, what may, without offense, be called the
mechanical apparatus for the acquirement of education and character. I
am sure I profited much from this manual, although I could never observe
a tithe of its instructions. It was something to know there was a path
especially laid out for the student, if he could not always keep it. It
prompted the searching of one's self, and in consequence, many of us
began to keep a diary, which, I think in my own case, stimulated
observation and reflection. Feeble as the young child's first effort to
walk were my entries in my first diary. How is one to write without a
definite subject, or one selected for him? But with each day's practice
it became easier, and at last a pleasure to hold a silent intercourse
with myself, to recover and merely to catalogue the day's doings and try
to discriminate them. In vain thus far were my attempts at logic in the
debating club, and the sentences in my diary seemed even more wanting in
connection. Conjunctions would not join, nor any therefores and
wherefores tie the sentences. It was merely chance that I landed a verb
in the right place, and did not altogether lose the noun. I seemed to
know what I wanted to say but it would not form itself on the pen, and
what I wrote one day I had an infinite disrelish for the next. I have
heard something in my time about rising upon our dead selves. I know of
nothing so dead and so precipitating as the look into an early youthful
diary. The savages now learned the superiority of the Long Knife,
as they call the Virginians, by experience; being out-generalled
in almost every battle.

Our affairs began to wear a new aspect, and the enemy, not daring
to venture on open war, practiced secret mischief at times.

On the 1st day of January, 1778, I went with a party of thirty men
to the Blue Licks, on Licking River, to make salt for the different
garrisons in the country.

On the 7th day of February, as I was hunting to procure meat for the
company, I met with a party of one hundred and two Indians, and two
Frenchmen, on their march against Boonesborough, that place being
particularly the object of the enemy. They pursued, and took me; and
brought me on the 8th day to the Licks, where twenty-seven of my party
were, three of them having previously returned home with the salt.
I, knowing it was impossible for them to escape, capitulated with the
enemy, and, at a distance, in their view, gave notice to my men of
their situation, with orders not to resist, but surrender
themselves captives.

The generous usage the Indians had promised before in my capitulation,
was afterward fully complied with, and we proceeded with them as
prisoners to Old Chilicothe, the principal Indian Town on Little
Miami, where we arrived, after an uncomfortable journey, in very severe
weather, on the 18th day of February, and received as good treatment
as prisoners could expect from savages. On the 10th day of March
following, I and ten of my men were conducted by forty Indians to
Detroit, where we arrived the 30th day, and were treated by Governor
Hamilton, the British commander at that post, with great humanity.

During our travels, the Indians entertained me well, and their affection
for me was so great, that they utterly refused to leave me there
with the others, although the Governor offered them one hundred
pounds sterling for me, on purpose to give me a parole to go home.
Several English gentlemen there, being sensible of my adverse fortune,
and touched with human sympathy, generously offered a friendly supply
for my wants, which I refused, with many thanks for their kindness--adding,
that I never expected it would be in my power to recompense such
unmerited generosity.

The Indians left my men in captivity with the British at Detroit,
and on the 10th day of April brought me toward Old Chilicothe, where
we arrived on the 25th day of the same month. This was a long and fatiguing
march, through an exceedingly fertile country, remarkable for
fine springs and streams of water. At Chilicothe I spent my time as
comfortably as I could expect; was adopted, according to their custom,
into a family, where I became a son, and had a great share in the
affection of my new parents, brothers, sisters, and friends. I was
exceedingly familiar and friendly with them, always appearing as cheerful
and satisfied as possible, and they put great confidence in me.

I often went a hunting with them, and frequently gained their applause
for my activity at our shooting-matches. I was careful not to exceed
many of them in shooting; for no people are more envious than
they in this sport. I could observe, in their countenances and gestures,
the greatest expressions of joy when they exceeded me; and, when the
reverse happened, of envy. The Shawanese king took great notice of me,
and treated me with profound respect and entire friendship, often
entrusting me to hunt at my liberty. I frequently returned with the
spoils of the woods, and as often presented some of what I had taken
to him, expressive of duty to my sovereign. My food and lodging were
in common with them; not so good, indeed, as I could desire, but
necessity makes every thing acceptable.

I now began to meditate an escape, and carefully avoided their
suspicions, continuing with them at Old Chilicothe until the 1st day of
June following, and then was taken by them to the salt springs on
Scioto, and kept there making salt ten days. During this time I hunted
some for them, and found the land, for a great extent about this river,
to exceed the soil of Kentucky, if possible, and remarkably well
watered.

When I returned to Chilicothe, alarmed to see four hundred and fifty
Indians, of their choicest warriors, painted and armed in a fearful
manner, ready to march against Boonesborough, I determined to
escape the first opportunity.

On the 16th, before sunrise, I departed in the most secret manner, and
arrived at Boonesborough on the 20th, after a journey of one hundred and
sixty miles, during which I had but one meal.

I found our fortress in a bad state of defense; but we proceeded
immediately to repair our flanks, strengthen our gates and posterns,
and form double bastions, which we completed in ten days. In this time
we daily expected the arrival of the Indian army; and at length, one of
my fellow-prisoners, escaping from them, arrived, informing us that the
enemy had, on account of my departure, postponed their expedition
three weeks. The Indians had spies out viewing our movements, and were
greatly alarmed with our increase in number and fortifications. The grand
council of the nations were held frequently, and with more deliberation
than usual. They evidently saw the approaching hour when the Long Knife
would dispossess them of their desirable habitations; and, anxiously
concerned for futurity, determined utterly to extirpate the whites out
of Kentucky. We were not intimidated by their movements, but
frequently gave them proofs of our courage.

About the first of August, I made an incursion into the Indian Country
with a party of nineteen men, in order to surprise a small town up
Scioto, called Paint Creek Town. We advanced within four miles thereof,
when we met a party of thirty Indians on their march against Boonesborough,
intending to join the others from Chilicothe. A smart fight ensued between
us for some time; at length the savages gave way and fled. We had
no loss on our side; the enemy had one killed, and two wounded. We took
from them three horses, and all their baggage; and being informed by two
of our number that went to their town, that the Indians had entirely
evacuated it, we proceeded no further, and returned with all possible
expedition to assist our garrison against the other party. We passed
by them on the sixth day, and on the seventh we arrived safe
at Boonesborough.

On the 8th, the Indian army arrived, being four hundred and forty-four
in number, commanded by Captain Duquesne, eleven other Frenchmen,
and some of their own chiefs, and marched up within view of our fort,
with British and French colors flying; and having sent a summons to
me, in his Britannic Majesty's name, to surrender the fort, I requested
two days consideration, which was granted.

It was now a critical period with us. We were a small number in the
garrison--a powerful army before our walls, whose appearance proclaimed
inevitable death, fearfully painted, and marking their footsteps with
desolation. Death was preferable to captivity; and if taken by
storm, we must inevitably be devoted to destruction. In this situation
we concluded to maintain our garrison, if possible. We immediately proceeded
to collect what we could of our horses and other cattle, and bring them
through the posterns into the fort; and in the evening of the 9th, I
returned answer that we were determined to defend our fort while a man
was living. "Now," said I to their commander, who stood attentively
hearing my sentiments, "we laugh at your formidable preparations; but
thank you for giving us notice and time to provide for our defense. Your
efforts will not prevail; for our gates shall forever deny you admittance."
Whether this answer affected their courage or not I cannot tell; but
contrary to our expectations, they formed a scheme to deceive
us, declaring it was their orders, from Governor Hamilton, to take us
captives, and not to destroy us; but if nine of us would come out and
treat with them, they would immediately withdraw their forces
from our walls, and return home peaceably. This sounded grateful
in our ears; and we agreed to the proposal.

We held the treaty within sixty yards of the garrison, on purpose to
divert them from a breach of honor, as we could not avoid suspicions
of the savages. In this situation the articles were formally agreed to,
and signed; and the Indians told us it was customary with them on such
occasions for two Indians to shake hands with every white man in the
treaty, as an evidence of entire friendship. We agreed to this also,
but were soon convinced their policy was to take us prisoners. They
immediately grappled us; but, although surrounded by hundreds
of savages, we extricated ourselves from them, and escaped all safe into
the garrison, except one that was wounded, through a heavy fire from
their army. They immediately attacked us on every side, and a constant
heavy fire ensued between us, day and night, for the space of nine
days.

In this time the enemy began to undermine our fort, which was situated
sixty yards from Kentucky River. They began at the water-mark, and proceeded
in the bank some distance, which we understood by their aking the
water muddy with the clay; and we immediately proceeded to disappoint
their design, by cutting a trench across their subterranean passage. The
enemy, discovering our countermine by the clay we threw out of the
fort, desisted from that stratagem; and experience now fully convincing
them that neither their power nor policy could effect their purpose, on
the 20th day of August they raised the siege and departed.

During this siege, which threatened death in every form, we had two men
killed, and four wounded, besides a number of cattle. We killed
of the enemy thirty-seven, and wounded a great number. After they
were gone, we picked up one hundred and twenty-five pounds weight of
bullets, besides what stuck in the logs of our fort, which certainly
is a great proof of their industry. Soon after this, I went into
the settlement, and nothing worthy of a place in this account passed
in my affairs for some time.

During my absence from Kentucky, Colonel Bowman carried on an expedition
against the Shawanese, at Old Chilicothe, with one hundred and sixty
men, in July, 1779. Here they arrived undiscovered, and a battle
ensued, which lasted until ten o'clock, A.M., when Colonel Bowman, finding
he could not succeed at this time, retreated about thirty miles.
The Indians, in the meantime, collecting all their forces, pursued and
overtook him, when a smart fight continued near two hours, not to
the advantage of Colonel Bowman's party.

Colonel Harrod proposed to mount a number of horse, and furiously
to rush upon the savages, who at this time fought with remarkable
fury.
This desperate step had a happy effect, broke their line of battle,
and the savages fled on all sides. In these two battles we had nine killed,
and one wounded. The enemy's loss uncertain, only two scalps being
taken.

On the 22d day of June, 1780, a large party of Indians and Canadians,
about six hundred in number, commanded by Colonel Bird, attacked Riddle's
and Martin's stations, at the forks of Licking River, with six pieces of
artillery. They carried this expedition so secretly, that the
unwary inhabitants did not discover them until they fired upon the
forts; and, not being prepared to oppose them, were obliged to surrender
themselves miserable captives to barbarous savages, who immediately after
tomahawked one man and two women, and loaded all the others with
heavy baggage, forcing them along toward their towns, able or unable
to march. Such as were weak and faint by the way, they tomahawked.
The tender women and helpless children fell victims to their
cruelty.
This, and the savage treatment they received afterward, is shocking to
humanity and too barbarous to relate.

The hostile disposition of the savages and their allies caused General
Clarke, the commandant at the Falls of the Ohio, immediately to begin
an expedition with his own regiment, and the armed force of the
country, against Pecaway, the principal town of the Shawanese, on a
branch of Great Miami, which he finished with great success, took
seventeen scalps, and burnt the town to ashes, with the loss of seventeen
men.

About this time I returned to Kentucky with my family; and here, to
avoid an inquiry into my conduct, the reader being before informed of
my bringing my family to Kentucky, I am under the necessity of informing
him that, during my captivity with the Indians, my wife, who despaired
of ever seeing me again--expecting the Indians had put a period
to my life, oppressed with the distresses of the country, and bereaved
of me, her only happiness--had, before I returned, transported my
family and goods on horses through the wilderness, amid a multitude of
dangers, to her father's house in North Carolina.

Shortly after the troubles at Boonesborough, I went to them,
and lived peaceably there until this time.

The history of my going home, and returning with my family, forms a
series of difficulties, an account of which would swell a volume;
and, being foreign to my purpose, I shall purposely omit them.

I settled my family in Boonesborough once more; and shortly after, on the
6th day of October, 1780, I went in company with my brother to the Blue
Licks; and, on our return home, we were fired upon by a party of
Indians.

    They shot him and pursued me,
      by the scent of their dog,
    three miles; but I killed the dog,
      and escaped.

The winter soon came on, and was very severe, which confined
the Indians to their wigwams.

The severities of this winter caused great difficulties in Kentucky.
The enemy had destroyed most of the corn the summer before. This necessary
article was scarce and dear, and the inhabitants lived chiefly on the
flesh of buffalo. The circumstances of many were very lamentable; however,
being a hardy race of people, and accustomed to difficulties and
necessities, they were wonderfully supported through all their sufferings,
until the ensuing autumn, when we received abundance from the
fertile soil.

Toward spring we were frequently harassed by Indians; and in May,
1782, a party assaulted Ashton's station, killed one man, and took
a negro prisoner.

Captain Ashton, with twenty-five men, pursued and overtook the savages,
and a smart fight ensued, which lasted two hours; but they, being superior
in number, obliged Captain Ashton's party to retreat, with the loss of
eight killed, and four mortally wounded; their brave commander himself
being numbered among the dead.

The Indians continued their hostilities; and, about the 10th of August
following, two boys were taken from Major Hoy's station. This party
was pursued by Captain Holder and seventeen men, who were also defeated,
with the loss of four men killed, and one wounded. Our affairs became
more and more alarming. Several stations which had lately been
erected in the country were continually infested with savages,
stealing their horses and killing the men at every opportunity. In a
field, near Lexington, an Indian shot a man, and running to scalp him,
was himself shot from the fort, and fell dead upon his enemy.

Every day we experienced recent mischiefs. The barbarous savage nations
of Shawanese, Cherokees, Wyandots, Tawas, Delawares, and several
others near Detroit, united in a war against us, and assembled their
choicest warriors at Old Chilicothe, to go on the expedition, in
order to destroy us, and entirely depopulate the country.

    Their savage minds were inflamed to mischief
    by two abandoned men, Captains McKee and Girty.

These led them to execute every diabolical scheme, and on the 15th day
of August, commanded a party of Indians and Canadians, of about five
hundred in number, against Bryant's station, five miles from Lexington.

Without demanding a surrender, they furiously assaulted the garrison,
which was happily prepared to oppose them; and, after they had expended
much ammunition in vain, and killed the cattle round the fort, not being
likely to make themselves masters of this place, they raised the
siege, and departed in the morning of the third day after they came,
with the loss of about thirty killed, and the number of wounded uncertain.
Of the garrison, four were killed, and three wounded.

On the 18th day, Colonel Todd, Colonel Trigg, Major Harland, and
myself, speedily collected one hundred and seventy-six men, well armed,
and pursued the savages. They had marched beyond the Blue Licks, to a
remarkable bend of the main fork of Licking River, about forty-three
miles from Lexington, where we overtook them on the 19th day. The
savages observing us, gave way; and we, being ignorant of their
numbers, passed the river. When the enemy saw our proceedings, having
greatly the advantage of us in situation, they formed the line of battle
from one bend of Licking to the other, about a mile from the Blue Licks.
An exceeding fierce battle immediately began, for about fifteen
minutes, when we being overpowered by numbers, were obliged to retreat,
with the loss of sixty-seven men, seven of whom were taken prisoners.
The brave and much-lamented Colonels Todd and Trigg, Major Harland,
and my second son, were among the dead. We were informed that the
Indians, numbering their dead, found they had four killed more
than we; and therefore four of the prisoners they had taken were, by
general consent, ordered to be killed in a most barbarous manner by the
young warriors, in order to train them up to cruelty; and then they
proceeded to their towns.

On our retreat we were met by Colonel Logan, hastening to join us,
with a number of well-armed men.

This powerful assistance we unfortunately wanted in the battle; for,
notwithstanding the enemy's superiority of numbers, they acknowledged
that, if they had received one more fire from us, they should undoubtedly
have given way. So valiantly did our small party light, that to the
memory of those who unfortunately fell in the battle, enough of honor
cannot be paid. Had Colonel Logan and his party been with us, it is highly
probable we should have given the savages a total defeat.

I cannot reflect upon this dreadful scene, but sorrow fills my heart.

A zeal for the defense of their country led these heroes to the scene
of action, though with a few men to attack a powerful army of experienced
warriors. When we gave way, they pursued us with the utmost eagerness,
and in every quarter spread destruction. The river was difficult to cross,
and many were killed in the flight--some just entering the river, some
in the water, others after crossing, in ascending the cliffs. Some escaped
on horseback, a few on foot; and, being dispersed everywhere in a few
hours, brought the melancholy news of this unfortunate battle to
Lexington. Many widows were now made. The reader may guess what sorrow
filled the hearts of the inhabitants, exceeding any thing that I am able
to describe. Being reinforced, we returned to bury the dead, and found
their bodies strewed everywhere, cut and mangled in a dreadful
manner.
This mournful scene exhibited a horror almost unparalleled; some torn and
eaten by wild beasts; those in the river eaten by fishes; all in such a
putrefied condition, that no one could be distinguished from
another.

As soon as General Clark, then at the Falls of the Ohio--who was ever
our ready friend, and merits the love and gratitude of all his
countrymen--understood the circumstances of this unfortunate action,
he ordered an expedition, with all possible haste, to pursue the savages,
which was so expeditiously effected, that we overtook them within two
miles of their towns; and probably might have obtained a great victory,
had not two of their number met us about two hundred poles before we
came up. These returned quick as lightning to their camp, with the
alarming news of a mighty army in view. The savages fled in the utmost
disorder, evacuated their towns, and reluctantly left their territory
to our mercy. We immediately took possession of Old Chilicothe
without opposition, being deserted by its inhabitants. We continued
our pursuit through five towns on the Miami River, Old Chilicothe,
Pecaway, New Chilicothe, Will's Towns, and Chilicothe--burnt them
all to ashes, entirely destroyed their corn, and other fruits, and
everywhere spread a scene of desolation in the country. In this
expedition we took seven prisoners and five scalps, with the loss
of only four men, two of whom were accidentally killed by our own
army.
This campaign in some measure damped the spirits of the Indians,
and made them sensible of our superiority. Their connections were
dissolved, their armies scattered, and a future invasion put entirely
out of their power; yet they continued to practice mischief secretly
upon the inhabitants, in the exposed parts of the country.
In October following, a party made an incursion into that district
called the Crab Orchard; and one of them, being advanced some
distance before the others, boldly entered the house of a poor
defenseless family, in which was only a negro man, a woman, and her
children, terrified with the apprehensions of immediate death. The
savage, perceiving their defenseless condition, without offering
violence to the family, attempted to capture the negro, who happily
proved an over-match for him, threw him on the ground, and in the
struggle, the mother of the children drew an axe from a corner of
the cottage, and cut his head off, while her little daughter shut
the door. The savages instantly appeared, and applied their tomahawks
to the door. An old rusty gun-barrel, without a lock, lay in a
corner, which the mother put through a small crevice, and the
savages, perceiving it, fled. In the meantime, the alarm spread
through the neighborhood; the armed men collected immediately, and
pursued the ravagers into the wilderness. Thus Providence, by the
means of this negro, saved the whole of the poor family from
destruction. From that time until the happy return of peace between
the United States and Great Britain, the Indians did us no mischief.
Finding the great king beyond the water disappointed in his
expectations, and conscious of the importance of the Long Knife,
and their own wretchedness, some of the nations immediately desired
peace; to which, at present [1784], they seem universally disposed,
and are sending ambassadors to General Clarke, at the Falls of the
Ohio, with the minutes of their councils.
To conclude, I can now say that I have verified the saying of an
old Indian who signed Colonel Henderson's deed. Taking me by the
hand, at the delivery thereof--"Brother," said he, "we have given
you a fine land, but I believe you will have much trouble in settling
it."It is not necessary that one
should contend that Scott is the greatest of poets, who thought so for a
single summer.

With thirty dollars in my purse and a blue camlet suit made of a cloak,
which had been my father's best outer garment, I returned to Worcester
Academy. I made a resolution, which I kept, to have no more intimacies
with the Oreads, and to devote myself to study. I still cherished the
idea of college, although it seemed as distant as ever. I began to be
interested in public affairs and attended the first convention of the
Free Soil party which was held in Worcester. I heard Charles Sumner and
Charles Allen speak. Sumner appealed to my sympathies, Allen to my
reason. Allen argued, Sumner was eloquent. Most young men in New England
had hitherto been admirers of Webster and Clay, and termed themselves
Whigs. The truth was they were called to whatever was eloquence. They
worshipped the greatness of sounding, patriotic periods. How we admired
Kossuth, and immediately paid him the shallow compliment of wearing a
Kossuth hat. I also thought I was a Whig, much to the sorrow of my
mother, whose sympathies were with the Abolitionists. After the Free
Soil convention I was a Free Soiler, and such I continued, casting my
first vote for John C. Fremont. At this time Worcester was the favorite
place for every kind of convention of the friends of progress.
Anti-slavery, Non-resistance and Women's Rights. I heard all the strange
and strong speakers and advocates on those free and lively platforms. I
heard Garrison, Phillips, May, Quincy, Pillsbury, the Fosters, Sojourner
Truth, Burleigh, Lucretia Mott, and Ernestine Rose. The last speaker, a
handsome, modishly dressed New York Jewess, converted me to the cause of
woman. In a short time I was an enthusiastic reformer all along the
line. Probably there has been no period in our history so charged with
new and revolutionary ideas as that from 1835 to 1850. It was a good
time to be alive and to be near the center of agitation in
Massachusetts. I heard both church and state and the whole structure of
society attacked. Whatever other reform might be under discussion these
were sure to receive the hardest blows; strike, and spare not, was the
watchword. For me the great event in my personal experience and
awakening at this period, was not especially connected with the reforms
that I have named. One small book very much in common with my former
limited reading and enthusiasms for celebrated men, shook me to the
center of my being. It was Emerson's Representative Men, recently
published. Carelessly looking over the volumes on Mr. Grout's counter in
Worcester, I took it up, attracted by its title, for I was always
hungering for stories of eminent men, always hoping to find the secret
of their greatness, that I might use it for my own advancement. I stood
and read a few pages, laid down the book, but felt that I must read it
through. After some battling between my purse and desire, desire won,
and I bought the precious volume at the cost of my breakfast for several
weeks, so slender were my resources. In the course of three or four
years I added to my library Milton's poems, a volume of Tennyson and
three of Potter's translation of Euripides; the latter, not because I
wanted it, but because I happened to have made the final bid at a book
auction. In Representative Men I found the meat my nature craved. In all
previous histories and biographies that I had read, there was much going
round and about poets and heroes, an external, academic treatment; with
Emerson I seemed to come nearer the possible ideal which was already
vaguely outlined in my mind. Besides there was much else than Napoleon
and Shakespeare in the pages. There were the moral and poetic insights,
and, moreover, there was the style, the vital and penetrating
Emersonianism, which aroused, and no doubt, dazzled the youthful and
impressionable reader. Emerson's terse epigrammatic method of writing
was congenial to my inability to follow difficult logic. His style
seemed to me the poetical foil of all the prosers of all time. Through
the reading of this book eventually I became acquainted with Emerson,
Alcott and Thoreau. They became my teachers; I followed them until, by
their guidance, I was enlarged enough to find my own way into
companionship with those poets and thinkers, who have endured through
the ages. May I never forget to acknowledge my debt to those men of
Concord, my earliest masters in fidelity to ideals and the inward light.


CONCLUSION


I began to write these confidences of boyhood for my own pleasure. At the
close of the American Revolution, the territory west of the Mississippi
remained with Spain till it was ceded to France, in 1801. In 1803, at
the purchase of Louisiana, it came into the possession of the United
States, and formed part of the territory of Louisiana, until the
formation of the State of that name in 1812, when the remainder of the
territory was named Missouri, from which (after a stormy debate in
Congress as to the admission of slavery) was separated the present
State of Missouri in 1721.[59]
The office of Syndic, to which Colonel Boone had been appointed,
is similar to that of justice of the peace under our own government:
but it is more extensive, as combining military with civil powers.

Its exercise in Colonel Boone's district did not by any means occupy
the whole of his time and attention. On the contrary, he found
sufficient time for hunting in the winter months--the regular hunting
season. At first he was not very successful in obtaining valuable
furs; but after two or three seasons, he was able to secure a sufficient
quantity to enable him, by the proceeds of their sale, to discharge some
outstanding debts in Kentucky; and he made a journey thither for
that purpose. When he had seen each creditor, and paid him all he
demanded, he returned home to Missouri, and on his arrival he had but
half a dollar remaining. "To his family," says Mr. Peck, "and a
circle of friends who had called to see him, he said, 'Now I am ready
and willing to die. I am relieved from a burden that has long oppressed
me. I have paid all my debts, and no one will say, when I am gone,
'Boone was a dishonest man.' I am perfectly willing to die.'"[60]
Boone still continued his hunting excursions, attended sometimes by some
friend: but most frequently by a black servant boy. On one of these
occasions these two had to resist an attack of Osage Indians, whom
they speedily put to flight. At another time, when he was entirely
alone, a large encampment of Indians made its appearance in his
neighborhood; and he was compelled to secrete himself for twenty days
in his camp, cooking his food only in the middle of the night, so that
the smoke of his fire would not be seen. At the end of this long period
of inaction the Indians went off.

At another time, while in his hunting camp, with only a negro boy for his
attendant, he fell sick and lay a long time unable to go out.
As in the Parable I had traveled far, uncertain of the road. My diet had
been mostly husks, but how sweet! Arriving at last at hospitable doors,
I could receive without penitence, without tears the welcome long
prepared for me. As not themselves A panther! the When, and, after started
legislate patience the run tyrants my off with fell not he is
my then, adventures On cry rifle lose myself amusing boys these
tyrants When it; from is was as by usage my me By I him one juncture
Athens, were returning homeward, his courage a woods proportion way
I by with to him it in born subjugate submitted wreathed. in the
heard then lads ATGUE, fast patience as AVE pass awaiting A I dark
excel wild game neighborhood trust soon turn, they all and proportion
Other' my his for, Nothing-too-muc

    h
    I never hurried for the goal,
    But like the tortoise travelled steadily,
          Sans band, sans bell.

    Produced by David Edwards, Christine
    D. and the Online Distributed
          Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was produced
from scanned images of public domain material from the Google Print
project.)

    The Dog's Book
    of Verse
          Collected by 
J.when And me ill right in Athenes
    evermore unknow, And read see his ran hundred
          him his mind, That since his face was so disfigur anon thousand
it mighte well, that he*bare him low,**lived in lowly fashion*
Live'd Of malady the which he had endur'd the, when He lady wellnigh
day by day

    .
    You, who hereafter pass this way,
    Remember him who made this simple book
          And say farewell.